The hens had been mysteriously disappearing for over a month; and when I came home to Springfield
for the summer holidays it was my duty to find the cause. This was soon done. The fowls were
carried away bodily one at a time, before going to roost, or else after leaving, which put
tramps and neighbors out of court; they were not taken from the high perches, which cleared
all coons and owls; or left partly eaten, so that weasels, skunks, or minks were not the guilty
ones, and the blame, therefore, was surely left at Reynard's door.

The great pine wood of Erindale was on the other bank of the river, and on looking carefully
about the lower ford I saw a few fox-tracks and a barred feather from one of our Plymouth Rock
chickens. On climbing the farther bank in search of more clews, I heard a great outcry of crows
behind me, and turning, saw a number of these birds darting down at something in the ford.
A better view showed that it was the old story, thief catch thief, for there in the middle
of the ford was a fox with something in his jaws--he was returning from our barnyard with another
hen. The crows, though shameless robbers themselves, are ever first to cry 'Stop thief,' and
yet more than ready to take 'hush-money' in the form of a share in the plunder.

And this was their game now. The fox to get back home must cross the river, where he was exposed
to the full brunt of the crow mob. He made a dash for it, and would doubtless have gotten across
with his booty had I not joined in the attack, whereupon he dropped the hen, scarce dead, and
disappeared in the woods.

This large and regular levy of provisions wholly carried off could mean but one thing, a family
of little foxes at home; and to find them I now was bound.

That evening I went with Ranger, my hound, across the river into the Erindale woods. As soon
as the hound began to circle, we heard the short, sharp bark of a fox from a thickly wooded
ravine close by. Ranger dashed in at once, struck a hot scent and went off on a lively straight-away
till his voice was lost in the distance away over the upland.

After nearly an hour he came back, panting and warm, for it was baking August weather, and
lay down at my feet.

But almost immediately the same foxy 'Yap yurrr' was heard close at hand and off dashed the
dog on another chase.

Away he went in the darkness, baying like a foghorn, straight away to the north. And the loud
'Boo, boo,' became a low 'oo, oo,' and that a feeble 'o-o' and then was lost. They must have
gone some miles away, for even with ear to the ground I heard nothing of them, though a mile
was easy distance for Ranger's brazen voice. As I waited in the black woods I heard a sweet
sound of dripping water: 'Tink tank tenk tink, Ta tink tank tenk tonk.'

I did not know of any spring so near, and in the hot night it was a glad find. But the sound
led me to the bough of an oak-tree, where I found its source. Such a soft, sweet song; full
of delightful suggestion on such a night:

     Tonk tank tenk tink
     Ta tink a tonk a tank a tink a
     Ta ta tink tank ta ta tonk tink
     Drink a tank a drink a drunk.

It was the 'water-dripping' song of the saw-whet owl.

But suddenly a deep raucous breathing and a rustle of leaves showed that Ranger was back.

He was completely fagged out. His tongue hung almost to the ground and was dripping with foam,
his flanks were heaving and spume-flecks dribbled from his breast and sides. He stopped panting
a moment to give my hand a dutiful lick, then flung himself flop on the leaves to drown all
other sounds with his noisy panting. But again that tantalizing 'Yap yurrr' was heard a few
feet away, and the meaning of it all dawned on me.

We were close to the den where the little foxes were, and the old ones were taking turns in
trying to lead us away.

It was late night now, so we went home feeling sure that the problem was nearly solved.

II

It was well known that there was an old fox with his family living in the neighborhood, but
no one supposed them so near.

This fox had been called 'Scarface,' because of a scar reaching from his eye through and back
of his ear; this was supposed to have been given him by a barbed-wire fence during a rabbit
hunt, and as the hair came in white after it healed, it was always a strong mark.

The winter before I had met with him and had had a sample of his craftiness. I was out shooting,
after a fall of snow, and had crossed the open fields to the edge of the brushy hollow back
of the old mill. As my head rose to a view of the hollow I caught sight of a fox trotting at
long range down the other side, in line to cross my course. Instantly I held motionless, and
did not even lower or turn my head lest I should catch his eye by moving, until he went on
out of sight in the thick cover at the bottom. As soon as he was hidden I bobbed down and ran
to head him off where he should leave the cover on the other side, and was there in good time
awaiting, but no fox came forth. A careful took showed the fresh track of a fox that had bounded
from the cover, and following it with my eye I saw old Scarface himself far out of range behind
me, sitting on his haunches and grinning as though much amused.

A study of the trail made all clear. He had seen me at the moment I saw him, but he, also like
a true hunter, had concealed the fact, putting on an air of unconcern till out of sight, when
he had run for his life around behind me and amused himself by watching my stillborn trick.

In the springtime I had yet another instance of Scarface's cunning. I was walking with a friend
along the road over the high pasture. We passed within thirty feet of a ridge on which were
several gray and brown bowlders. When at the nearest point my friend said:

"Stone number three looks to me very much like a fox curled up."

But I could not see it, and we passed. We had not gone many yards farther when the wind blew
on this bowlder as on fur.

My friend said, "I am sure that is a fox, lying asleep."

"We'll soon settle that," I replied, and turned back, but as soon as I had taken one step from
the road, up jumped Scarface, for it was he, and ran. A fire had swept the middle of the pasture,
leaving a broad belt of black; over this he skurried till he came to the unburnt yellow grass
again, where he squatted down and was lost to view. He had been watching us all the time, and
would not have moved had we kept to the road. The wonderful part of this is, not that he resembled
the round stones and dry grass, but that he knew he did, and was ready to profit by it.

We soon found that it was Scarface and his wife Vixen that had made our woods their home and
our barnyard their base of supplies.

Next morning a search in the pines showed a great bank of earth that had been scratched up
within a few months. It must have come from a hole, and yet there was none to be seen. It is
well known that a really cute fox, on digging a new den, brings all the earth out at the first
hole made, but carries on a tunnel into some distant thicket. Then closing up for good the
first made and too well-marked door, uses only the entrance hidden in the thicket.

So after a little search at the other side of a knoll, I found the real entry and good proof
that there was a nest of little foxes inside.

Rising above the brush on the hillside was a great hollow basswood. It leaned a good deal and
had a large hole at the bottom, and a smaller one at top.

We boys had often used this tree in playing Swiss Family Robinson, and by cutting steps in
its soft punky walls had made it easy to go up and down in the hollow. Now it came in handy,
for next day when the sun was warm I went there to watch, and from this perch on the roof,
I soon saw the interesting family that lived in the cellar near by. There were four little
foxes; they looked curiously like little lambs, with their woolly coats, their long, thick
legs and innocent expressions, and yet a second glance at their broad, sharp-nosed, sharp-eyed
visages showed that each of these innocents was the makings of a crafty old fox.

They played about, basking in the sun, or wrestling with each other till a slight sound made
them skurry under ground. But their alarm was needless, for the cause of it was their mother;
she stepped from the bushes bringing another hen--number seventeen as I remember. A low call
from her and the little fellows came tumbling out. Then began a scene that I thought charming,
but which my uncle would not have enjoyed at all.

They rushed on the hen, and tussled and fought with it, and each other, while the mother, keeping
a sharp eye for enemies, looked on with fond delight. The expression on her face was remarkable.
It was first a grinning of delight, but her usual look of wildness and cunning was there, nor
were cruelty and nervousness lacking, but over all was the unmistakable look of the mother's
pride and love.

The base of my tree was hidden in bushes and much lower than the knoll where the den was. So
I could come and go at will without scaring the foxes.

For many days I went there and saw much of the training of the young ones. They early learned
to turn to statuettes at any strange sound, and then on hearing it again or finding other cause
for fear, to run for shelter.

Some animals have so much mother-love that it overflows and benefits outsiders. Not so old
Vixen it would seem. Her pleasure in the cubs led to most refined cruelty. For she often brought
home to them mice and birds alive, and with diabolical gentleness would avoid doing them serious
hurt so that the cubs might have larger scope to torment them.

There was a woodchuck that lived over in the hill orchard. He was neither handsome nor interesting,
but he knew how to take care of himself. He had digged a den between the roots of an old pine-stump,
so that the foxes could not follow him by digging. But hard work was not their way of life;
wits they believed worth more than elbow-grease. This woodchuck usually sunned himself on the
stump each morning. If he saw a fox near he went down in the door of his den, or if the enemy
was very near he went inside and stayed long enough for the danger to pass.

One morning Vixen and her mate seemed to decide that it was time the children knew something
about the broad subject of Woodchucks, and further that this orchard woodchuck would serve
nicely for an object-lesson. So they went together to the orchard-fence unseen by old Chuckie
on his stump. Scarface then showed himself in the orchard and quietly walked in a line so as
to, pass by the stump at a distance, but never once turned his head or allowed the ever-watchful
woodchuck to think himself seen. When the fox entered the field the woodchuck quietly dropped
down to the mouth of his den; here he waited as the fox passed, but concluding that after all
wisdom is the better part, went into his hole.

This was what the foxes wanted. Vixen had kept out of sight, but now ran swiftly to the stump
and hid behind it. Scarface had kept straight on, going very slowly. The woodchuck had not
been frightened, so before long his head popped up between the roots and he looked around.
There was that fox still going on, farther and farther away. The woodchuck grew bold as the
fox went, and came out farther, and then seeing the coast clear, he scrambled onto the stump,
and with one spring Vixen had him and shook him till he lay senseless. Scarface had watched
out of the corner of his eye and now came running back. But Vixen took the chuck in her jaws
and made for the den, so he saw he wasn't needed.

