"Exactly, ma'am.  Last Thursday morning (thanks to your kindness, again) I went to Pendlebury
to my friend the chemist, to ask a few questions about Barsham and his mother.  I was told
that they had both left the town about five years since.  When I inquired into the circumstances,
some strange particulars came out in the course of the chemist's answer. You know I have no
doubt, ma'am, that poor Mrs. Kirkland was confined while her husband was at sea, in lodgings
at a village called Flatfield, and that she died and was buried there.  But what you may not
know is, that Flatfield is only three miles from Pendlebury; that the doctor who attended on
Mrs. Kirkland was Barsham; that the nurse who took care of her was Barsham's mother; and that
the person who called them both in, was Mr. Forley.  Whether his daughter wrote to him, or
whether he heard of it in some other way, I don't know; but he was with her (though he had
sworn never to see her again when she married) a month or more before her confinement, and
was backwards and forwards a good deal between Flatfield and Pendlebury.  How he managed matters
with the Barshams cannot at present be discovered; but it is a fact that he contrived to keep
the drunken doctor sober, to everybody's amazement.  It is a fact that Barsham went to the
poor woman with all his wits about him.  It is a fact that he and his mother came back from
Flatfield after Mrs. Kirkland's death, packed up what few things they had, and left the town
mysteriously by night.  And, lastly, it is also a fact that the other doctor, Mr. Dix, was
not called in to help, till a week after the birth and burial of the child, when the mother
was sinking from exhaustion--exhaustion (to give the vagabond, Barsham, his due) not produced,
in Mr. Dix's opinion, by improper medical treatment, but by the bodily weakness of the poor
woman herself--"

"Burial of the child?" I interrupted, trembling all over.  "Trottle! you spoke that word 'burial'
in a very strange way--you are fixing your eyes on me now with a very strange look--"

Trottle leaned over close to me, and pointed through the window to the empty house.

"The child's death is registered, at Pendlebury," he said, "on Barsham's certificate, under
the head of Male Infant, Still-Born.  The child's coffin lies in the mother's grave, in Flatfield
churchyard.  The child himself--as surely as I live and breathe, is living and breathing now--a
castaway and a prisoner in that villainous house!"

I sank back in my chair.

"It's guess-work, so far, but it is borne in on my mind, for all that, as truth.  Rouse yourself,
ma'am, and think a little.  The last I hear of Barsham, he is attending Mr. Forley's disobedient
daughter.  The next I see of Barsham, he is in Mr. Forley's house, trusted with a secret. 
He and his mother leave Pendlebury suddenly and suspiciously five years back; and he and his
mother have got a child of five years old, hidden away in the house.  Wait! please to wait--I
have not done yet.  The will left by Mr. Forley's father, strengthens the suspicion.  The friend
I took with me to Doctors' Commons, made himself master of the contents of that will; and when
he had done so, I put these two questions to him. 'Can Mr. Forley leave his money at his own
discretion to anybody he pleases?'  'No,' my friend says, 'his father has left him with only
a life interest in it.'  'Suppose one of Mr. Forley's married daughters has a girl, and the
other a boy, how would the money go?'  'It would all go,' my friend says, 'to the boy, and
it would be charged with the payment of a certain annual income to his female cousin.  After
her death, it would go back to the male descendant, and to his heirs.'  Consider that, ma'am!
The child of the daughter whom Mr.