"After the old man's death," my friend continued, "Pochard drifted from bad to worse, and finally
out of the Quarter, somewhere into misery on the other side of the Seine. No one heard of him
for a few years, until he was again recognized as being the same Pochard returned again to
the Quarter. He was hobbling about on crutches just as you see him there. And now, do you know
what he does? Get up from where you are sitting," said Lachaume, "and look into the back kitchen.
Is he not standing there by the door--they are handing him a small bundle?"

"Yes," said I, "something wrapped in newspaper."

"Do you know what is in it?--the carcass of the chicken you have just finished, and which the
garçon carried away. Pochard saw you eating it half an hour ago as he passed. It was for that
he was waiting."

"To eat?" I asked.

"No, to sell," Lachaume replied, "together with the other bones he is able to collect--for
soup in some poorest resort down by the river, where the boatmen and the gamins go. The few
sous he gets will buy Pochard a big glass, a lump of sugar, and a spoon; into the goblet, in
some equally dirty 'boîte,' they will pour him out his green treasure of absinthe. Then Pochard
will forget the day--perhaps he will dream of the Austrian Baron--and try and forget Camille
Leroux. Poor devil!"

Marguerite Girardet, the model, also told me between poses in the studio the other day of just
such a "pauvre homme" she once knew. "When he was young," she said, "he won a second prize
at the Conservatoire, and afterward played first violin at the Comique. Now he plays in front
of the cafés, like the rest, and sometimes poses for the head of an old man!

"Many grow old so young," she continued; "I knew a little model once with a beautiful figure,
absolutely comme un bijou--pretty, too, and had she been a sensible girl, as I often told her,
she could still have earned her ten francs a day posing; but she wanted to dine all the time
with this and that one, and pose too, and in three months all her fine 'svelte' lines that
made her a valuable model among the sculptors were gone. You see, I have posed all my life
in the studios, and I am over thirty now, and you know I work hard, but I have kept my fine
lines--because I go to bed early and eat and drink little. Then I have much to do at home;
my husband and I for years have had a comfortable home; we take a great deal of pride in it,
and it keeps me very busy to keep everything in order, for I pose very early some mornings
and then go back and get déjeuner, and then back to pose again.

"In the summer," she went on, "we take a little place outside of Paris for a month, down the
Seine, where my husband brings his work with him; he is a repairer of fans and objets d'art.
You should come in and see us some time; it is quite near where you painted last summer. Ah
yes," she exclaimed, as she drew her pink toes under her, "I love the country! Last year I
posed nearly two months for Monsieur Z., the painter--en plein air; my skin was not as white
as it is now, I can tell you--I was absolutely like an Indian!

"Once"--and Marguerite smiled at the memory of it--"I went to England to pose for a painter
well known there. It was an important tableau, and I stayed there six months. It was a horrible
place to me--I was always cold--the fog was so thick one could hardly see in winter mornings
going to the studio. Besides, I could get nothing good to eat! He was a celebrated painter,
a 'Sir,' and lived with his family in a big stone house with a garden. We had tea and cakes
at five in the studio--always tea, tea, tea!--I can tell you I used to long for a good bottle
of Madame Giraud's vin ordinaire, and a poulet. So I left and came back to Paris. Ah! quelle
place! that Angleterre! J'étais toujours, toujours triste là! In Paris I make a good living;
ten francs a day--that's not bad, is it? and my time is taken often a year ahead. I like to
pose for the painters--the studios are cleaner than those of the sculptor's. Some of the sculptors'
studios are so dirty--clay and dust over everything! Did you see Fabien's studio the other
day when I posed for him? You thought it dirty? Tiens!--you should have seen it last year when
he was working on the big group for the Exposition! It is clean now compared with what it was.
You see, I go to my work in the plainest of clothes--a cheap print dress and everything of
the simplest I can make, for in half an hour, left in those studios, they would be fit only
for the blanchisseuse--the wax and dust are in and over everything! There is no time to change
when one has not the time to go home at mid-day."

And so I learned much of the good sense and many of the economies in the life of this most
celebrated model. You can see her superb figure wrought in marble and bronze by some of the
most famous of modern French sculptors all over Paris.

There is another type of model you will see, too--one who rang my bell one sunny morning in
response to a note written by my good friend, the sculptor, for whom this little Parisienne posed.

She came without her hat--this "vrai type"--about seventeen years of age--with exquisite features,
her blue eyes shining under a wealth of delicate blonde hair arranged in the prettiest of fashions--a
little white bow tied jauntily at her throat, and her exquisitely delicate, strong young figure
clothed in a simple black dress. She had about her such a frank, childlike air! Yes, she posed
for so and so, and so and so, but not many; she liked it better than being in a shop; and it
was far more independent, for one could go about and see one's friends--and there were many
of her girl friends living on the same street where this chic demoiselle lived.

At noon my drawing was finished. As she sat buttoning her boots, she looked up at me innocently,
slipped her five francs for the morning's work in her reticule, and said:

"I live with mama, and mama never gives me any money to spend on myself. This is Sunday and
a holiday, so I shall go with Henriette and her brother to Vincennes. It is delicious there
under the trees."

It would have been quite impossible for me to have gone with them--I was not even invited;
but this very serious and good little Parisienne, who posed for the figure with quite the same
unconsciousness as she would have handed you your change over the counter of some stuffy little
shop, went to Vincennes with Henriette and her brother, where they had a beautiful day--scrambling
up the paths and listening to the band--all at the enormous expense of the artist; and this
was how this good little Parisienne managed to save five francs in a single day!

There are old-men models who knock at your studio too, and who are celebrated for their tangled
gray locks, which they immediately uncover as you open your door. These unkempt-looking Father
Times and Methuselahs prowl about the staircases of the different ateliers daily. So do little
children--mostly Italians and all filthily dirty; swarthy, black-eyed, gypsy-looking girls
and boys of from twelve to fifteen years of age, and Italian mothers holding small children--itinerant
madonnas. These are the poorer class of models--the riff-raff of the Quarter--who get anywhere
from a few sous to a few francs for a séance.

And there are four-footed models, too, for I know a kindly old horse who has served in many
a studio and who has carried a score of the famous generals of the world and Jeanne d'Arcs
to battle--in many a modern public square.

Chacun son métier!

CHAPTER VIII

THE LUXEMBOURG GARDENS

In this busy Quarter, where so many people are confined throughout the day in work-shops and
studios, a breathing-space becomes a necessity. The gardens of the Luxembourg, brilliant in
flowers and laid out in the Renaissance, with shady groves and long avenues of chestnut-trees
stretching up to the Place de l'Observatoire, afford the great breathing-ground for the Latin
Quarter.

If one had but an hour to spend in the Quartier Latin, one could not find a more interesting
and representative sight of student life than between the hours of four and five on Friday
afternoon, when the military band plays in the Luxembourg Gardens. This is the afternoon when
Bohemia is on parade. Then every one flocks here to see one's friends--and a sort of weekly
reception for the Quarter is held. The walks about the band-stand are thronged with students
and girls, and hundreds of chairs are filled with an audience of the older people--shopkeepers
and their families, old women in white lace caps, and gray-haired old men, many in straight-brimmed
high hats of a mode of twenty years past. Here they sit and listen to the music under the cool
shadow of the trees, whose rich foliage forms an arbor overhead--a roof of green leaves, through
which the sunbeams stream and in which the fat, gray pigeons find a paradise.

There is a booth near-by where waffles, cooked on a small oven in the rear, are sold. In front
are a dozen or more tables for ices and drinkables. Every table and chair is taken within hearing
distance of the band. When these musicians of the army of France arrive, marching in twos from
their barracks to the stand, it is always the signal for that genuine enthusiasm among the
waiting crowd which one sees between the French and their soldiers.

If you chance to sit among the groups at the little tables, and watch the passing throng in
front of you, you will see some queer "types," many of them seldom en evidence except on these
Friday afternoons in the Luxembourg. Buried, no doubt, in some garret hermitage or studio,
they emerge thus weekly to greet silently the passing world.

A tall poet stalks slowly by, reading intently, as he walks, a well-worn volume of verses--his
faded straw hat shading the tip of his long nose. Following him, a boy of twenty, delicately
featured, with that purity of expression one sees in the faces of the good--the result of a
life, perhaps, given to his ideal in art. He wears his hair long and curling over his ears,
with a long stray wisp over one eye, the whole cropped evenly at the back as it reaches his
black velvet collar. He wears, too, a dove-gray vest of fine corduroy, buttoned behind like
those of the clergy, and a velvet tam-o'-shanter-like cap, and carries between his teeth a
small pipe with a long goose-quill stem. You can readily see that to this young man with high
ideals there is only one corner of the world worth living in, and that lies between the Place
de l'Observatoire and the Seine.

Three students pass, in wide broadcloth trousers, gathered in tight at the ankles, and wearing
wide-brimmed black hats. Hanging on the arm of one of the trio is a short snub-nosed girl,
whose Cleo-Merodic hair, flattened in a bandeau over her ears, not only completely conceals
them, but all the rest of her face, except her two merry black eyes and her saucy and neatly
rouged lips. She is in black bicycle bloomers and a white, short duck jacket--a straw hat with
a wide blue ribbon band, and a fluffy piece of white tulle tied at the side of her neck.

The throng moves slowly by you. It is impossible, in such a close crowd, to be in a hurry;
besides, one never is here.

Near-by sit two old ladies, evidently concierges from some atelier court. One holds the printed
program of the music, cut carefully from her weekly newspaper; it is cheaper than buying one
for two sous, and these old concierges are economical.

In this Friday gathering you will recognize dozens of faces which you have seen at the "Bal
Bullier" and the cafés.

The girl in the blue tailor-made dress, with the little dog, who you remember dined the night
before at the Panthéon, is walking now arm in arm with a tall man in black, a mourning band
about his hat. The girl is dressed in black, too--a mark of respect to her ami by her side.
The dog, who is so small that he slides along the walk every time his chain is pulled, is now
tucked under her arm.

One of the tables near the waffle stand is taken by a group of six students and four girls.
All of them have arrived at the table in the last fifteen minutes--some alone, some in twos.
The girl in the scarlet gown and white kid slippers, who came with the queer-looking "type"
with the pointed beard, is Yvonne Gallois--a bonne camarade. She keeps the rest in the best
of spirits, for she is witty, this Yvonne, and a great favorite with the crowd she is with.
She is pretty, too, and has a whole-souled good-humor about her that makes her ever welcome.
The fellow she came with is Delmet the architect--a great wag--lazy, but full of fun--and genius.

The little girl sitting opposite Yvonne is Claire Dumont. She is explaining a very sad "histoire"
to the "type" next to her, intense in the recital of her woes. Her alert, nervous little face
is a study; when words and expression fail, she shrugs her delicate shoulders, accenting every
sentence with her hands, until it seems as if her small, nervous frame could express no more--and
all about her little dog "Loisette!"

"Yes, the villain of a concierge at Edmond's studio swore at him twice, and Sunday, when Edmond
and I were breakfasting late, the old beast saw 'Loisette' on the stairs and threw water over
her; she is a sale bête, that grosse femme! She shall see what it will cost her, the old miser;
and you know I have always been most amiable with her. She is jealous of me--that is it--oh!
I am certain of it. Because I am young and happy. Jealous of me! that's funny, is it not? The
old pig! Poor 'Loisette'--she shivered all night with fright and from being wet. Edmond and
I are going to find another place. Yes, she shall see what it will be there without us--with
no one to depend upon for her snuff and her wine. If she were concierge at Edmond's old atelier
she would be treated like that horrid old Madame Fouquet."

The boys in the atelier over her window hated this old Madame Fouquet, I remember. She was
always prying about and complaining, so they fished up her pet gold-fish out of the aquarium
on her window-sill, and fried them on the atelier stove, and put them back in the window on
a little plate all garnished with carrots. She swore vengeance and called in the police, but
to no avail. One day they fished up the parrot in its cage, and the green bird that screamed
and squawked continually met a speedy and painless death and went off to the taxidermist. Then
the cage was lowered in its place with the door left ajar, and the old woman felt sure that
her pet had escaped and would some day find his way back to her--a thing this garrulous bird
would never have thought of doing had he had any say in the matter.

So the old lady left the door of the cage open for days in the event of his return, and strange
to tell, one morning Madame Fouquet got up to quarrel with her next-door neighbor, and, to
her amazement, there was her green pet on his perch in his cage. She called to him, but he
did not answer; he simply stood on his wired legs and fixed his glassy eyes on her, and said
not a word--while the gang of Indians in the windows above yelled themselves hoarse.

It was just such a crowd as this that initiated a "nouveau" once in one of the ateliers. They
stripped the new-comer, and, as is often the custom on similar festive occasions, painted him
all over with sketches, done in the powdered water-colors that come in glass jars. They are
cheap and cover a lot of surface, so that the gentleman in question looked like a human picture-gallery.
After the ceremony, he was put in a hamper and deposited, in the morning, in the middle of
the Pont des Arts, where he was subsequently found by the police, who carted him off in a cab.

But you must see more of this vast garden of the Luxembourg to appreciate truly its beauty
and its charm. Filled with beautiful sculpture in bronze and marble, with its musée of famous
modern pictures bought by the Government, with flower-beds brilliant in geraniums and fragrant
in roses, with the big basin spouting a jet of water in its center, where the children sail
their boats, and with that superb "Fontaine de Medicis" at the end of a long, rectangular basin
of water--dark as some pool in a forest brook, the green vines trailing about its sides, shaded
by the rich foliage of the trees overhead.

On the other side of the Luxembourg you will find a garden of roses, with a rich bronze group
of Greek runners in the center, and near it, back of the long marble balustrade, a croquet
ground--a favorite spot for several veteran enthusiasts who play here regularly, surrounded
for hours by an interested crowd who applaud and cheer the participants in this passé sport.

This is another way of spending an afternoon at the sole cost of one's leisure. It takes but
little to amuse these people!

Often at the Punch and Judy show near-by, you will see two old gentlemen,--who may have watched
this same Punch and Judy show when they were youngsters,--and who have been sitting for half
an hour, waiting for the curtain of the miniature theater to rise. It is popular--this small
"Théâtre Guignol," and the benches in front are filled with the children of rich and poor,
who scream with delight and kick their little, fat bare legs at the first shrill squeak of
Mr. Punch. The three who compose the staff of this tiny attraction have been long in its service--the
old harpist, and the good wife of the showman who knows every child in the neighborhood, and
her husband who is Mr. Punch, the hangman, and the gendarme, and half a dozen other equally
historical personages. A thin, sad-looking man, this husband, gray-haired, with a careworn
look in his deep-sunken eyes, who works harder hourly, daily, yearly, to amuse the heart of
a child than almost any one I know.

The little box of a theater is stifling hot in summer, and yet he must laugh and scream and
sing within it, while his good wife collects the sous, talking all the while to this and to
that child whom she has known since its babyhood; chatting with the nurses decked out in their
gay-colored, Alsatian bows, the ribbons reaching nearly to the ground.

A French nurse is a gorgeous spectacle of neatness and cleanliness, and many of the younger
ones, fresh from country homes in Normandy and Brittany, with their rosy cheeks, are pictures
of health. Wherever you see a nurse, you will see a "piou-piou" not far away, which is a very
belittling word for the red-trousered infantryman of the République Française.

Surrounding the Palais du Luxembourg, these "piou-pious," less fortunate for the hour, stand
guard in the small striped sentry-boxes, musket at side, or pace stolidly up and down the flagged
walk. Marie, at the moment, is no doubt with the children of the rich Count, in a shady spot
near the music. How cruel is the fate of many a gallant "piou-piou"!

Farther down the gravel-walk strolls a young Frenchman and his fiancée--the mother of his betrothed
inevitably at her side! It is under this system of rigid chaperonage that the young girl of
France is given in marriage. It is not to be wondered at that many of them marry to be free,
and that many of the happier marriages have begun with an elopement!

The music is over, and the band is filing out, followed by the crowd. A few linger about the
walks around the band-stand to chat. The old lady who rents the chairs is stacking them up
about the tree-trunks, and long shadows across the walks tell of the approaching twilight.
Overhead, among the leaves, the pigeons coo. For a few moments the sun bathes the great garden
in a pinkish glow, then drops slowly, a blood-red disk, behind the trees. The air grows chilly;
it is again the hour to dine--the hour when Paris wakes.

In the smaller restaurants of the Quarter one often sees some strange contrasts among these
true bohemians, for the Latin Quarter draws its habitués from every part of the globe. They
are not all French--these happy-go-lucky fellows, who live for the day and let the morrow slide.
You will see many Japanese--some of them painters--many of them taking courses in political
economy, or in law; many of them titled men of high rank in their own country, studying in
the schools, and learning, too, with that thoroughness and rapidity which are ever characteristic
of their race. You will find, too, Brazilians; gentlemen from Haiti of darker hue; Russians,
Poles, and Spaniards--men and women from every clime and every station in life. They adapt
themselves to the Quarter and become a part of this big family of Bohemia easily and naturally.

In this daily atmosphere only the girl-student from our own shores seems out of place. She
will hunt for some small restaurant, sacred in its exclusiveness and known only to a dozen
bon camarades of the Quarter. Perhaps this girl-student, it may be, from the West and her cousin
from the East will discover some such cosy little boîte on their way back from their atelier.
To two other equally adventurous female minds they will impart this newest find; after that
you will see the four dining there nightly together, as safe, I assure you, within these walls
of Bohemia as they would be at home rocking on their Aunt Mary's porch.

There is, of course, considerable awkwardness between these bon camarades, to whom the place
really belongs, and these very innocent new-comers, who seek a table by themselves in a corner
under the few trees in front of the small restaurant. And yet every one is exceedingly polite
to them. Madame the patronne hustles about to see that the dinner is warm and nicely served;
and Henriette, who is waiting on them, none the less attentive, although she is late for her
own dinner, which she will sit down to presently with madame the patronne, the good cook, and
the other girls who serve the small tables.

This later feast will be augmented perhaps by half the good boys and girls who have been dining
at the long table. Perhaps they will all come in and help shell the peas for to-morrow's dinner.
And yet this is a public place, where the painters come, and where one pays only for what one
orders. It is all very interesting to the four American girls, who are dining at the small
table. "It is so thoroughly bohemian!" they exclaim.

But what must Mimi think of these silent and exclusive strangers, and what, too, must the tall
girl in the bicycle bloomers think, and the little girl who has been ill and who at the moment
is dining with Renould, the artist, and whom every one--even to the cook, is so glad to welcome
back after her long illness? There is an unsurmountable barrier between the Americans at the
little table in the corner and that jolly crowd of good and kindly people at the long one,
for Mimi and Henriette and the little girl who has been so ill, and the French painters and
sculptors with them, cannot understand either the language of these strangers or their views
of life.

"Florence!" exclaims one of the strangers in a whisper, "do look at that queer little 'type'
at the long table--the tall girl in black actually kissed him!"

"You don't mean it!"

"Yes, I do--just now. Why, my dear, I saw it plainly!"

