We spent, says J.Y., five days amongst them. The old pastor Best died soon after the time that
Stephen Grellet was there. We met his son, lately appointed chaplain to the Protestant congregation
at Turin. He is a young man of talent, lively and intelligent, and desirous of being useful
in his new sphere of action. He came to us often at our little inn, and made many inquiries
as to the nature of our religious principles; our conversation mostly turned on the necessity
of the assistance of the Holy Spirit in the exercise of Christian ministry. This he fully admitted,
but was not prepared to dispense with the necessity of an academical preparation. I fear that
sending the young men to Geneva for this purpose has not always had a salutary effect.

We thought it right to attend their worship on First-day morning at La Tour. The congregation
consisted of about 900 clean and well-dressed peasants, many of whose countenances looked serious.
The short discourse of Pastor Peyron was orthodox, and the application impressive and edifying.
He afterwards dined and spent the afternoon with us at the widow Best's, with several branches
of her interesting and pious family. I humbly trust this day was spent to mutual comfort.

They were disappointed to find that strangers were forbidden by law to hold public meetings,
or preach in the assemblies of the Protestants; and although they met with many pious individuals,
they thought the life of religion on the whole at a low ebb, and deplored the prevalence of
the forms and ceremonies used by the Church, of England. The schools, too, they found to be
in a very poor state; the masters deficient in education and badly paid, and the schools conducted
without system. The ministers showed them great kindness, and on their quitting La Tour, Pastor
Best encouraged them by the expression of satisfaction with their visit. They returned to Turin
on the 28th.

Passing over Mont Cenis, they directed their course to Geneva, where they arrived on the 3rd
of the Eighth Month, rejoiced to be once more on the English side of the Alps. On their outward
journey their sojourn in this city had been short, but now they found it needful to make a
longer visit, and were thankful in being permitted to mingle again in intimate communion with
those who understood the language of the Spirit. They paid and received many visits, and held
two religious meetings at their hotel, at the latter of which about fifty persons were present.

One of the most interesting occasions of which they speak was a Missionary Meeting, in which
the minister Olivier unfolded his experience of a divine call to leave his country, and go
abroad on the service of the gospel. The voice which he described as having been sounded in
his spiritual ear, and the manner in which he received it, must have struck John Yeardley as
singularly in accordance with the call to a similar service which he himself had heard so distinctly
in his younger days, and which, like Olivier, he had for a long time hidden in his heart.

8 mo. 4.--In the evening I attended the Missionary Meeting in the Chapel de l'Oratoire. Pastor
Merle [d'Aubigné] opened the meeting by a short prayer, and singing, and then gave a narrative
of the liberation of the slaves in the English colonies, according to the account received
from England. Pastor Olivier, from Lausanne, was present. He is about to depart for Lower Canada,
and he spoke in a very touching manner of the way in which the mission had first opened on
his own mind. When the concern was made known in his heart, he kept it there in secret prayer
to the Lord for direction, and whenever he heard what he believed to be the same voice, it
was always--Go, and the Lord will go with thee. A real unction attended while he gave us this
account; the way in which he spoke of it resembled the manner of one of our Friends laying
a concern before a meeting: many hearts present felt the force of his words. His exhortation
to the young persons was excellent. Pastor Gaussen concluded the meeting with an address and
lively prayer.

Among the friends with whom they had religious intercourse were Pastors L'Huillier, Gallon,
and Molinier. The last was a "father in the church" to them. After some conversation on the
state of religion in Geneva, he proposed their sitting awhile in silence, well knowing the
practice of the Society of Friends in this respect. John and Martha Yeardley had each a gospel
message to deliver to him, after which he took them both by the hand, and offered up prayer
for their preservation and the prosperity of the Society to which they belonged. "It was,"
says J.Y., "the effusion of the Holy Spirit, accompanied with power, and refreshed our spirits."

With Pastor Gallon John Yeardley had a long conversation on the principles and operations of
the Société Evangelique.

I find them, he says, more liberal in their views than had been represented, and their extent
of usefulness is already considerable. In their Academy they instruct young men with a view
to their becoming ministers, missionaries, school-masters, &c., as the prospect for their future
usefulness may open under the direction of Divine Providence. In a place like Geneva, such
an institution may be well: while we regard it with some caution lest it should run too high
on points of doctrine, we cannot but hail with peculiar satisfaction such a favorable opportunity
of educating young men in the sound principles of Christianity, that they may happily prove
instruments in the Divine Hand to check the spread of infidelity.

From Geneva they went to Lausanne. Their old friend, Professor Gaudin, took them to see several
pastors, and other pious persons, and on First-day, the 17th, he and his family, with some
other serious-minded individuals, joined them in their hour of worship at the inn.

It was, says J.Y., a time of a little encouragement to our tried minds, for we had been brought
into doubt as to the utility of resting here, although we had seen, as we believed, in the
true light, that we ought to seek out a few who could unite with us in our simple way.

On the 18th they went on to Neufchâtel, where they were received as before with much affection,
and where they proposed to settle down for the winter, after making a tour in some neighboring
parts of Switzerland.

On the 20th they went to Berne, and hired a lodging, for the purpose of devoting themselves
to religious intercourse with persons of the interior class. As soon as it was known they had
arrived, their acquaintance rapidly increased, and they found it difficult to receive all who
came. One of their first acts was to renew their intercourse with the Combe family at Wabern,
where their visit in 1828 had left a sweet remembrance.

They spent a fortnight in Berne and the neighborhood, and some passages from John Yeardley's
account of this interesting visit may properly find a place here. The continual flow of Christian
sympathy which it was now their happiness to experience, formed a strong contrast to the dreary
spiritual wastes they had traversed in Italy and Greece. It was at this time that they contracted
or renewed a friendship with Sophie Würstemberger, since well known to many other English Friends.

8 mo. 24.--How greatly I feel humbled under the prospect before us in this place; many thirsting
souls are looking to us for help, and we feel poor and weak; we can only direct them to Him
from whom all strength comes. O my Saviour, forsake us not in this trying hour; give us the
consolation of thy Holy Spirit, and a portion of strength to do thy will! Our meeting is appointed
for this evening; enlighten our understanding, O Lord, that we may be enabled to instruct the
people in the right way.

25th.--More came to the meeting last evening than we expected. They were still, and a good
feeling prevailed; there were those present who knew something of inward retirement with their
Saviour.

Madame Combe called yesterday to ask some questions on the Supper and Baptism. I believe it
would be an advantage to these pious people, if they were to read and compare one part of the
Scripture with another more diligently. She left us well satisfied with the explanation given
to her questions. We never touch on these points, unless we are asked questions upon them.

The various visits received this day have closed with one of no common interest from Dr. Karl
Bouterwek, a young man from Prussia. He told as he had received much benefit in the church
of the Dissidents, but was on the point of separating from them, because he could not agree
in acknowledging they were the only true visible church. After some observations on the Supper,
&c., we observed that there were individuals in this place whom the Most High was calling into
more spirituality and purity of worship. He asked why we thought so. Our reasons were given,
and he made no reply; but a most solemn and precious silence came over us, which it was beyond
our power to break by uttering words. Our hearts were filled with love, and the dear young
man went away to avoid showing the feelings of his heart by the shedding of tears.

28th.--Took tea at the Pavilion, a pleasant country walk of twenty minutes from town, with
Mad'e de Watteville and her daughter. She had invited a number of friends to meet us. We passed
a couple of hours, pleasantly conversing, mostly on religious subjects. It is a little extraordinary,
with what openness some of these dear people speak to us of the state of their minds. When
the circle was seated, we formed a pretty large company. The daughter of Mad'e de W. whispered
to my M.Y., Are we too dissipated to have something good? We told her it was always good to
endeavor to retire before the Lord in humility of soul. I trust a parting blessing was felt
amongst us.

30th.--From 9 o'clock till half-past 12, we received visits in succession, I think not fewer
than fifteen. At half-past 2, Mad'e de Tavel accompanied us to the Penitentiary prison. For
cleanliness and order, I think, it exceeds all I ever saw of the kind. I fear the religious
instruction is very superficial; none but formal prayers and written sermons are used.

31st.--Attended Mad'lle Berthom's Scripture class, at the Institution for the Destitute. There
are eighteen girls in the house to bed and hoard; it has been established about six years.
M.B.'s method of examining the children is the most simple and spiritual of any that I have
seen; she has an extraordinary gift for the purpose.

9 mo. 2.--Attended the Monthly Meeting in the missionary room. Many of the company were peasants
from some distance. The singing excepted, it resembled a Monthly Meeting for worship in our
Society; for all had liberty to speak one after the other, five or six speaking by way of testimony:
the doctrine was sound, and the way in which they coupled this with their Christian experience
was really excellent. I had much unity with the concluding prayer by Pastor Merley.

2nd.--The evening was spent at Mad'e W.'s, with a pretty large company. ---- proposed for a
few verses to be sung; afterwards he read a chapter, and gave a long exposition, somewhat dry.
When this and a prayer were gone through, it was late; neither my M.Y., nor myself, were able
to express what was on our minds. Some uneasiness and disappointment were expressed by several;
and two of these dear friends came to our lodgings the next day, with whom we had a precious
time. My M.Y. had to speak a few words to the particular state of M.B., and at the close she
acknowledged, in brokenness of spirit, that it was the truth.

There is a remarkable awakening in the town and canton of Berne, both among those of the higher
walks of life and the peasants; but there is not strength enough to come out of the forms.
There are thirty females to one man among those who are lately become serious.

From Berne, J. and M.Y. proceeded to Zurich, arriving there on the 5th of the Ninth Month.
They spent three days in the city, chiefly in the company of the Gessner-Lavater family, and
renewed with the various members of it the intimate friendship of former years. A short passage
descriptive of this sojourn is hero appended.

9 mo. 7.--We attended the worship of the National Church, and heard the pious Gessner. What
he said was excellent, but I never enter these places without feeling regret that good Christians
can be so bound by book-worship; it certainly damps the life of religion in the assemblies.
How much we ought to rejoice in being delivered from the forms.

I was instructed yesterday evening by hearing a reply of one of the first missionaries of the
Moravians [?]. He had labored diligently for twenty-five years, and when asked how many souls
had been turned to the Lord by his means, he modestly answered, Seven. The person expressing
surprise at the smallness of the number in so many years, he replied, How happy shall I be
to stand in the Lord's presence at the last day, and to say, Lord, here am I and the seven
children whom thou hast given me. We ought to labor in faith, and not expect to see fruit.

The next town where they halted was Schaffhausen, like Zurich, dear to them in the recollections
of past visits. Here they examined the school for poor children in the town, and that of Buch
in the neighborhood. They were delighted with both these institutions. The mistress of the
former possessed an extraordinary natural talent for her office; she was originally a servant,
when, instead of seeking her own pleasure on the First-days of the week, as other servants
did, she would take a few children to teach them to read and instruct them in the Bible. Their
visit to the school at Buch is described by John Yeardley in No. 10 of his Series of Tracts,
The Six Secrets.

On the 13th they went to Basle, where they conversed with most of the pastors, and several
other individuals of religious character.

Serious, retired persons, says John Yeardley (9 mo. 21), frequently come to us and open the
state of their minds with great freedom and confidence. If we are of any use to their thirsty
souls, it is the Saviour's love that draws us into sympathy with them, and his good Spirit
that enables us to speak a word in season to their condition.

As usual, they visited the Mission House. Inspector Blumhardt informed them that the translation
which had been made of J.J. Gurney's "Essays on Christianity," and of which 2000 copies were
printed, had been productive of great good; they had been distributed chiefly among those who
were connected with the German universities.

They remained at Basle until the 1st of the Tenth Month, and then returned by way of Berne
to Neufchâtel. At Berne a sudden diversion was given to the current of their thoughts by the
intelligence of the death of Thomas Yeardley. J.Y. has left a memorandum of the occurrence,
and of the singular foreshadowing of it upon his own mind which took place at Zurich.

