Will any gentleman be kind enough to sell, or even to lend, me Blair's Correspondence on the
Roman Catholic Bible Society, a pamphlet published in 1813, which I have not been able to meet
with at a bookseller's shop, and am very desirous to see.

HENRY COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

"Vox Populi Vox Dei."--Lieber, in the last chapter of his Civil Liberty, treating of this dictum,
ascribes its origin to the Middle Ages, acknowledging, however, that he is unable to give anything
very definite. Sir William Hamilton, in his edition of the Works of Thomas Reid, gives the
concluding words of Hesiod's Works and Days thus:

    "The word proclaimed by the concordant voice of mankind fails not; for
    in man speaks God."

And to this the great philosopher adds:

 "Hence the adage (?), 'Vox Populi vox Dei.'"

The sign of interrogation is Sir William Hamilton's, and he was right to put it; for whatever
the psychological connexion between Hesiod's dictum and V. P. V. D. may be, there is surely
no historical. "Vox Populi vox Dei" is a different concept, breathing the spirit of a different
age.

How far back, then, can the dictum in these very words be traced?

Does it, as Lieber says, originally belong to the election of bishops by the people?

Or was it of Crusade origin?

America begs Europe to give her facts, not speculation, and hopes that Europe will be good
enough to comply with her request. Europe has given the serious "V. P. V. D." to America, so
she may as well give its history to America too.

AMERICUS.

    [As this Query of AMERICUS contains some new illustration of the
    history of this phrase, we have given it insertion, although the
    subject has already been discussed in our columns. The writer will,
    however, find that the earliest known instances of the use of the
    sayings are, by William of Malmesbury, who, speaking of Odo yielding
    his consent to be Archbishop of Canterbury, A.D. 920, says: "Recogitans
    illud Proverbium, Vox Populi Vox Dei;" and by Walter Reynolds,
    Archbishop of Canterbury, who, as we learn from Walsingham, took it as
    his text for the sermon which he preached when Edward III. was called
    to the throne, from which the people had pulled down Edward II.
    AMERICUS is farther referred to Mr. G. Cornewall Lewis' Essay on the
    Influence of Authority in Matters of Opinion (pp. 172, 173., and the
    accompanying notes) for some interesting remarks upon it. The oldest I am acquainted with is 1560, in quarto
(continued up to 1540 by Bishop Cooper). Is this edition rare?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

    [The earliest edition is that printed by T. Berthelet, 4to., 1549. The
    first two parts of this Chronicle, {495} and the beginning of the
    third, as far as the seventeenth year after Christ, were composed by
    Thomas Lanquet, a young man of twenty-four years of age. Owing to his
    early death, Bishop Cooper finished the work; and his part, which is
    the third, contains almost thrice as much as Lanquet's two parts, being
    taken from Achilles Pyrminius. When it was finished, a surreptitious
    edition appeared in 1559, under the title of Lanquet's Chronicle;
    hereupon the bishop protested against "the vnhonest dealynge" of this
    book, edited by Thomas Crowley, in the next edition, entitled Cooper's
    Chronicle, "printed in the house late Thomas Berthelettes," 1560. The
    running title to the first and second parts is, "Lanquet's Chronicle;"
    and to the third, "The Epitome of Chronicles." The other editions are,
    "London, 1554," 4to., and "London, 1565," 4to. We should think the
    edition of 1560 rare: it was in the collections of Mr. Heber and Mr.
    Herbert. In this work the following memorable passage occurs, under the
    year 1542:--"One named Johannes Faustius fyrste founde the crafte of
    printynge in the citee of Mens in Germanie."]

"Our English Milo."--Bishop Hall extols in his Heaven upon Earth the valour of a countryman
in a Spanish bull-fight (see p. 335., collected ed. Works, 1622). Of whom does he speak?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

    [If we may offer a conjecture, in the passage cited the bishop seems to
    refer to that "greatest scourge of Spain" Sir Walter Raleigh, and not
    so much to a bull-fight as to the Spanish Armada. The bishop is
    prescribing Expectation as a remedy for Crosses, and says, "Is it not
    credible what a fore-resolved mind can do--can suffer? Could our
    English Milo, of whom Spain yet speaketh, since their last peace, have
    overthrown that furious beast, made now more violent through the rage
    of his baiting, if he had not settled himself in his station, and
    expected?" Sir Walter's "fore-resolved and expectant mind" was shown in
    the publication of his treatise, Notes of Directions for the Defence
    of the Kingdom, written three years before the Spanish invasion of
    1588.]

"Delights for Ladies."--I lately picked up a small volume entitled--

    "Delights for Ladies; to adorn their Persons, Tables, Closets, and
    Distillatories, with Beauties, Bouquets, Perfumes, and Waters. Reade,
    practise, and censure." London, Robert Young. 1640.

Who is the author of this interesting little work? Some one has written on the fly-leaf, "See
Douce's Illustrations of Shakspeare, vol. i. p. 69., where there is a reference to this curious
little book;" but as I cannot readily lay my hand on Douce, I will feel obliged for the information
sought for from any of your valued correspondents.

GEORGE LLOYD.

Dublin.

    [The author was Sir Hugh Plat, who, says Harte, "not to mention his
    most excellent talents, was the most ingenious husbandman of the age he
    lived in. In a word, no man ever discovered, or at least brought into
    use, so many new sorts of manure." The Delights for Ladies first
    appeared in 1602, and passed through several editions. Douce merely
    quotes this work. Plat was the author of several other works: see Watt
    and Lowndes.]

Burton's Death.--Did Burton, author of Anatomy of Melancholy, commit suicide?

C. S. W.

    [The supposition that Robert Burton committed suicide originated from a
    statement found in Wood's Athenæ, vol. ii. p. 653. (Bliss). Wood remarks, that "whereas
he had made many epigrams on several people, so few were made on or written
to him. Among the few, one by Stradling, and another by Dunbar, a Scot," I
have met with one allusion to him among the epigrams of T. Bancroft, 4to.,
Lond. 1639, signat. A 3.:

             "To the Reader.

  Reader, till Martial thou hast well survey'd,
  Or Owen's wit with Jonson's learning weighed,
  Forbeare with thanklesse censure to accuse
  My writ of errour, or condemne my Muse."

As translators of Audoënus, Wood mentions, in 1619, Joh. Vicars, usher of Christ's Hospital
school, as having rendered some select epigrams, and Thomas Beck six hundred of Owen's, with
other epigrams from Martial and More, under the title of Parnassi Puerperium, 8vo., Lond. 1659.
In addition to these I find, in a catalogue of Lilly, King Street, Covent Garden, No. 4., 1844:

    "HAYMAN, Robert. Certaine Epigrams out of the First Foure Bookes of the
    excellent Epigrammatist Master John Owen, translated into English at
    Harbor Grace in Bristol's Hope, anciently called Newfoundland, 4to.,
    unbound; a rare poetical tract, 1628, 10s. 6d."

BALLIOLENSIS.

    [The personal and literary history of John Owen (Audoënus) is given
    in the Biographia Britannica, vol. v., and in Chalmers' and Rose's
    Biographical Dictionaries.]

Hampden's Death.--Was the great patriot Hampden actually slain by the enemy on Chalgrove Field?
or was his death, as some have asserted, {496} caused by the bursting of his own pistol, owing
to its having been incautiously overcharged?

T. J.

Worcester.

    [See the Gentleman's Magazine for May, 1815, p. 395., for "A true and
    faithfull Narrative of the Death of Master Hambden, who was mortally
    wounded at Challgrove Fight, A.D. 1643, and on the 18th of June." From
    this narrative we learn, that whilst Hampden was fighting against
    Prince Rupert at Chalgrove Field, he was struck with two carbine-balls
    in the shoulder, which broke the bone, and terminated fatally.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

"PINECE WITH A STINK."

(Vol. viii., pp. 270. 350.)

I would not have meddled with this subject if R. G., getting on a wrong scent, had not arrived
at the very extraordinary conclusion that Bramhall meant a "pinnace," and an "offensive composition
well known to sailors!"

The earliest notice that I have met with of the pinece in an English work, is in the second
part of the Secrets of Maister Alexis of Piemont, translated by W. Warde, Lond. 1568. There
I find the following secrets--worth knowing, too, if effective:

    "Against stinking vermin called Punesies.--If you rub your bedsteede
    with squilla stamped with vinaigre, or with the leaves of cedar tree
    sodden in oil, you shall never feel punese. Also if you set under the
    bed a payle full of water the puneses will not trouble you at all."

Butler, in the first canto of the third part of Hudibras, also mentions it thus:

 "And stole his talismanic louse--
  His flea, his morpion, and punaise."

If the Querist refers to his French dictionary he will soon discover the meaning of morpion
and punaise--the latter without doubt the pinece of Bishop Bramhall. Cotgrave, in his French-English
Dictionary, London, 1650, defines punaise to be "the noysome and stinking vermin called the
bed punie."

It may be bad taste to dwell any longer on this subject; but as it illustrates a curious fact
in natural history, and as it has been well said, that whatever the Almighty has thought proper
to create is not beneath the study of mankind, I shall crave a word or two more.

The pinece is not originally a native of this country; and that is the reason why, so many
years after its first appearance in England, it was known only by a corruption of its French
name punaise, or its German appellation wandlaus (wall-louse). Penny, a celebrated physician
and naturalist in the reign of Henry VII., discovered it at Mortlake in rather a curious manner.
Mouffet, in his Theatrum Insectorum (Lond. 1634), thus relates the story:

    "Anno 1503, dum hæc Pennio scriptitaret, Mortlacum Tamesin adjacentem
    viculum, magna festinatione accersebatur ad duas nobiles, magno metu ex
    cimicum vestigiis percussas, et quid nescio contagionis valde veritas.
    Tandem recognita, ac bestiolis captis, risu timorem omnem excussat."

Mouffet also tells us that in his time the insect was little known in England, though very
common on the Continent, a circumstance which he ascribes to the superior cleanliness of the
English:

    "Munditiem frequentemque lectulorum et culcitrarem lotionem, cum Galli,
    Germani, et Itali minus curant, pariunt magis hane pestem, Angli autem
    munditei et cultus studiosissimi rarius iis laborant."

Ray, in his Historia Insectorum, published in 1710, merely terms it the punice or wall-louse;
indeed, I am not aware that the modern name of the insect appears in print previous to 1730,
when one Southal published A Treatise of Buggs. Southal appears to have been an illiterate
person; and he erroneously ascribes the introduction of the insect into this country to the
large quantities of foreign fir used to rebuild London after the Great Fire.

The word bug, signifying a frightful object or spectre, derived from the Celtic and the root
of bogie, bug-aboo, bug-bear--is well known in our earlier literature. Spenser, Shakspeare,
Milton, Beaumont and Fletcher, Holinshed and many others, use it; and in Matthew's Bible, the
fifth verse of the ninety-first psalm is rendered:

    "Thou shalt not nede to be afraid of any bugs by night."

Thus we see that a real "terror of the night" in course of time, assumed, by common consent,
the title of the imaginary evil spirit of our ancestors.

One word more. I can see no difficulty in tracing the derivation of the word humbug, without
going to Hamburg, Hume of the Bog, or any such distant sources. In Grose's Dictionary of the
Vulgar Tongue, I find the word hum signifying deceive. Peter Pindar, too, writes writes:

 "Full many a trope from bayonet and drum
  He threaten'd but behold! 'twas all a hum."

Now, the rustic who frightens his neighbour with a turnip lanthorn and a white sheet, or the
spirit-rapping medium, who, for a consideration, treats his verdant client with a communication
from the unseen world, most decidedly humbugs him; that is, hums or deceives him with an imaginary
spirit, or bug.

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

I take it that the editor of Archbishop Bramhall's Works was judicious in not altering the
{497} word pinece to pinnace, as an object very different from the latter was meant; i. e.
a cimex, who certainly revenges any attack upon his person with a stink. Pinece is only a mistaken
orthography of punese, the old English name of the obnoxious insect our neighbours still call
a punaise (see Cotgrave in voce). Florio says "Cimici, a kinde of vermine in Italie that breedeth
in beds and biteth sore, called punies or wall-lice." We have it in fitting company in Hudibras,
III. 1.:

 "And stole his talismanic louse,
  His flea, his morpion, and punese."

This is only one more instance of the danger of altering the orthography, or changing an obsolete
word, the meaning of which is not immediately obvious. The substitution of pinnace would have
been entirely to depart from the meaning of the Archbishop.

S. W. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONUMENTAL BRASSES ABROAD.

(Vol. vi., p. 167.)

A recent visit to the cathedral of Aix-la-Chapelle enables me to add the following Notes to
the list already published in "N. & Q."

The brasses are five in number, and are all contained in a chapel on the north-west side of
the dome:

1. Arnoldus de Meroide, 1487, is a mural, rectangular plate (3' · 10" × 2' · 4"), on the upper
half of which are engraved the Virgin and Child, to whom an angel presents a kneeling priest,
and St. Bartholomew with knife and book.

2. Johannes Pollart, 1534, is also mural and rectangular (5' · 2½" × 2' · 4"), but is broken
into two unequal portions, now placed side by side. The upper half of the larger piece has
the following engraving:--In the centre stands the Virgin, wearing an arched imperial crown.
Angels swing censers above her head. St. John Baptist, on her right hand, presents a kneeling
priest in surplice and alb; and St. Christopher bears "the mysterious Child" on her left. The
lower half contains part of the long inscription which is completed on the smaller detached piece.

3. Johannes et Lambertus Munten, 1546. This is likewise mural and rectangular (2' · 11½" ×
2' · 1"). It is painted a deep blue colour, and has an inscription in gilt letters, at the
foot of which is depicted an emaciated figure, wrapped in a shroud and lying upon an altar-tomb:
large worms creep round the head and feet.

4. Johannes Paiel, 1560. Mural, rectangular (3' · 4" × 2' · 4¼"). This is painted as the last-mentioned
plate, and represents the Virgin and Child in a flaming aureole. Her feet rest in a crescent,
around which is twisted a serpent; on her right hand stand St. John Baptist and the Holy Lamb,
each bearing a cross; and to her left is St. Mary Magdalene, who presents a kneeling priest.

5. Henricus de .... This is on the floor in front of the altar-rails, and consists of a rectangular
plate (2' · 9" × 2' · 1"), on which is represented an angel wearing a surplice and a stole
semée of crosses fitcheé, and supporting a shield bearing three fleurs-de-lis, with as many
crosses fitchée. A partially-effaced inscription runs round the plate, within a floriated margin,
and with evangelistic symbols at the corners.

In the centre of the choir of Cologne Cathedral lies a modern rectangular brass plate (8' ·
10" × 3' · 11") to the memory of a late archbishop, Ferdinandus Augustus, 1835.

Beneath a single canopy is a full-length picture of the archbishop in eucharistic vestments
(the stole unusually short), a pall over his shoulders, and an elaborate pastoral staff in
his hand.

JOSIAH CATO.

Kennington.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILTON'S "LYCIDAS."

My own view of this passage strongly testifies against the interpretation of another passage
at the second reference.

The two-handed engine, I am positive, is St. Michael's sword. Farther on in the poem the bard
addresses the angel St. Michael (according to Warton), who is conceived as guarding the Mount
from enemies with a drawn sword, for in this form I apprehend does tradition state the vision
to have been seen; and he bids him to desist from looking out for enemies towards the coast
of Spain, and to "look homeward," at one of his own shepherds who is being washed ashore, in
all probability upon this very promontory. Milton elsewhere (Par. Lost, book vi. 251.) speaks
of the "huge two-handed sway" of this sword of St. Michael; and here, in Lycidas he repeats
the epithet to identify the instrument which is to accomplish the destruction of the wolf.
St. Michael's sword is to smite off the head of Satan, who at the door of Christ's fold is,
"with privy paw," daily devouring the hungry sheep. Note here that, according to some theologians,
the archangel Michael, in prophecy, means Christ himself. (See the authorities quoted by Heber,
Bampton Lectures, iv. note l, p. 242.) Hence it is His business to preserve His own sheep.
In the Apocalypse the final blow of St. Michael's (or Christ's) two-edged sword, which {498}
is to cleave the serpent's head, is made a distinct subject of prophecy. (See Rev. xii. 7-10.)

While on this subject allow me to ask, Can a dolphin waft? Can a shore wash?

C. MANSFIED INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCHOOL LIBRARIES.

(Vol. viii., pp. 220. 395.)

In returning thanks to those of your correspondents who replied to my Query, I ought, perhaps,
to have begged to learn such of our public schools that were without libraries, as the best
means of obtaining for them bequests or gifts that would form a nucleus of a good library.
For example, a correspondent informs me that the governors of Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School,
Wimborne, Dorset, are laying by 10l. a year towards the purchase of books for that purpose:
that having no library at present, there now is a favourable opportunity for either a gift
or a bequest: but I should in any case prefer a selection of works likely to prove readable
for young people, as history, biography, travels, and the popular works of science.

I can quite imagine that Eton, Winchester, Westminster, Harrow, Shrewsbury, and other similar
great schools, would have such libraries, but these are not half the number of our public foundations;
the wealthy schools above mentioned, and the rich men's children who go to them, would be in
a sad plight indeed were they not amply provided for in such matters. But there are others
whose mission is not less important, perhaps more so; and on this head none would be better
pleased than I to find I laboured under an "erroneous impression," as remarked by ETONENSIS.
The English public appeared to have an "erroneous impression" that they were better provided
with books than any other people a short time ago, till it was disproved when the agitation
respecting parochial libraries was set on foot, the facts appearing on the institution of the
Marylebone public library.

It has been shown that in France and Germany the public libraries, and the volumes in them,
far exceed any that we possess; a strange fact, when we are better provided with standard authors
than any other language in the world. I should much wish these brief parallels answered. The
city of Lyons has a magnificent public library of 100,000 vols., open to all; how many has
her rival Manchester? Boulogne has a public library of 16,000 vols.; how many has Southampton?
From the obliging notices of correspondents in "N. & Q.," we have had several articles on parochial
libraries, and the sum of the whole appears to be most miserable; surely some bad system has
prevailed either in not having proper places for them, or in some other fault. In one place
the resident clergyman sells them: surely if they were combined under some enlarged plan, people
desirous of making bequests or gifts would do so very willingly when they knew they would be
cared for and made use of; for it is probably the case that private libraries are more numerous
here than abroad, and that there are altogether more books in the country. I am told by a correspondent
that in his time there were no books at Christ's Hospital, therefore the bequest made is, I
presume, a late one; and if such is the case, it will be a favourable opportunity for the governors
of that school to enlarge the collection and make it available to the scholars.

If, therefore, our schools are no better provided than our public libraries, the inquiry may
be of service; but if they are, it cannot do harm to know their condition. It is true I have
heard of but one public school hitherto that has no library and wants one, but I shall remain
unsatisfied till other returns make their appearance in "N. & Q." or privately, when, if it
should appear I have taken a wrong opinion, I shall be as please as anybody else to find myself
mistaken.

WELD TAYLOR.

Bayswater.

In answer to your correspondent MR. WELD TAYLOR'S Query on this subject, may I be allowed to
say that at Tonbridge School, where I was educated, there is a very good general library, consisting
of the best classical works in our own language, travels, chronicles, histories, and the best
works of fiction and poetry, and I believe all modern periodicals.

This library is under the care of the head boy for the time being, and he, with the other monitors,
acts as librarian. Books are given out, I believe, daily; the library is maintained by the
boys themselves, and few leave the school without making some contribution to its funds, or
placing some work on its shelves.

The head master, the Rev. Dr. Welldon, approves of all books before they are added to the library.

There is also what is called the "Sunday Library," consisting of standard works of theology
and church history, and other works, chiefly presented by the head and other masters, to induce
a taste for such reading.

I am sorry that MR. WELD TAYLOR should have to complain of the general ignorance of public
schoolboys; but I know I may on behalf of the head boy of Tonbridge say, he will be happy to
acknowledge any contribution from MR. WELD TAYLOR, which he may be disposed to give, towards
the removal of this charge.

G. BRINDLEY ACWORTH.

Star Hill, Rochester.

{499}

       *       *       *       *       *

CAWDRAY'S "TREASURIE OF SIMILIES," AND SIMILE OF MAGNETIC NEEDLE.

(Vol. viii., p. 386.)

There can be no doubt as to the authorship of the Store-house of Similies. The work is now
before me, and the title-page is as follows:

    "A Treasurie or Store-house of Similies; both Pleasaunt, Delightfull,
    and Profitable for all Estates of Men in Generall: newly collected into
    Heades and Common Places. By Robert Cawdray. London: printed by Thomas
    Creede, 1609."

The only reference to his Life, which I can find, is in "The Epistle Dedicatorie;" and two
ancestors of mine, "Sir John Harington, Knight, and the Worshipful James Harington, Esquire,
his brother," in which, when assigning his reasons for the "Dedication," he says:

    "Calling to mind (right worshipfuls) not only the manifold curtesies
    and benefits, which I found and received, now more than thirty years
    ago, when I taught the grammar schoole at Okeham in Rutland, and
    sundry times since, of the religious and virtuous lady, Lucie
    Harington," &c.

The "Dedication" is subscribed "Robert Cawdray." Cawdray was also the author of a work On the
Profit and Necessity of Catechising, London, 1592, 8vo.

E. C. HARINGTON.

The Close, Exeter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Epistle Dedicatorie," as well as the title-page, appears to be wanting in J. H. S.'s copy
of Robert Cawdray's Store-house, which was "printed by Thomas Creede, London, 1609." From this
we find that it was dedicated to "his singular benefactors, Sir John Harington, Knight, as
also to the Worshipfull James Harington, Esquire, his brother," whose "great kindness and favourable
good will (during my long trouble, and since)" the author afterwards "calls to mind," and also
the "manifold curtesies and benefites which I found and received, now more than thirtie years
agoe (when I taught the Grammar School at Okeham in Rutland, and sundrie times since) of the
religious and vertuous lady, Lucie Harington your Worship's Mother, and my especial friend
in the Lord." Would this be the "lady, a prudent woman," who "had the princess Elizabeth committed
to her government" (vide Fuller's Worthies, Rutlandshire)?

J. H. S.'s Query recalls two examples of the "magnetic needle simile" (Vol. vi. and vii. passim),
which Cawdray has garnered in his Store-house, and which fact would probably account for their
appearance in many sermons of the period, as the book being expressly intended to "lay open,
rip up, and display in their kindes," "verie manie most horrible and foule vices and dangerous
sinnes of all sorts;" and the "verie fitte similitudes" being for the most part "borrowed from
manie kindes and sundrie naturall things, both in the Olde and New Testament," and being as
the writer says "for preachers profitable," would find a place on many a clerical shelf; and
its contents be freely used to "learnedly beautifie their matter, and brauely garnish and decke
out" their discourses. I fear that I have already encroached too much on your valuable space,
but send copies for use at discretion. In the first, the "Sayler's Gnomon" is used as an emblem
of the constancy which ought to animate every "Christian man;" and in the second, of steadfastness
amidst the temptations of the world. I shall be glad to know more of Cawdray than the trifles
I have gathered from his book:

    "Euen as the Sayler's Gnomon, or rule, which is commonly called the
    mariner's needle, doth alwayes looke towards the north poole, and will
    euer turne towards the same, howsoeuer it bee placed: which is
    maruellous in that instrument and needle, whereby the mariners doo
    knowe the course of the windes: Euen so euerie Christian man ought to
    direct the eyes of his minde, and the wayes of his heart, to Christ;
    who is our north poole, and that fixed and constant north starre,
    whereby we ought all to bee governed: for hee is our hope and our
    trust; hee is our strength, whereupon wee must still relie."

    "Like as the Gnomon dooth euer beholde the north starre, whether it be
    closed and shutte uppe in a coffer of golde, siluer, or woode, neuer
    loosing his nature: So a faithfull Christian man, whether hee abound in
    wealth, or bee pinched with pouertie, whether hee bee of high or lowe
    degree in this worlde, ought continually to haue his faith and hope
    surely built and grounded uppon Christ: and to haue his heart and minde
    fast fixed and settled in him, and to follow him through thicke and
    thinne, through fire and water, through warres and peace, through
    hunger and colde, through friendes and foes, through a thousand
    perilles and daungers, through the surges and waues of enuie, malice,
    hatred, euill speeches, rayling sentences, contempt of the worlde,
    flesh, and diuell: and, euen in death itselfe, bee it neuer so bitter,
    cruell, and tyrannicall; yet neuer to loose the sight and viewe of
    Christ, neuer to giue ouer our faith, hope, and trust in him."

SIGMA.

Stockton.

       *       *       *       *       *

Robert Cawdray, the author of A Treasurie or Store-house of Similes, was a Nonconformist divine
of learning and piety. Having entered into the sacred function about 1566, he was presented
by Secretary Cecil to the rectory of South Luffenham in Rutlandshire. After he had been employed
in the ministry about twenty years, he was cited before Bishop Aylmer and other high commissioners,
and charged with having omitted parts of the Book of Common Prayer in public worship, {500}
and with having preached against certain things contained in the book. Having refused, according
to Strype, to take the oath to answer all such articles as the commissioners should propose,
he was deprived of his ministerial office. Mr. Brook, however, in his Lives of the Puritans,
states that though he might at first have refused the oath, yet that he afterwards complied,
and gave answers to the various articles which he proceeds to detail at length. He was cited
again on two subsequent occasions; and, on his third appearance, being required to subscribe,
and to wear the surplice, he refused, and was imprisoned, and ultimately deprived. He applied
to Lord Burleigh to intercede on his behalf, and his lordship warmly espoused his cause, and
engaged Attorney Morrice to undertake his defence, but his arguments proved ineffectual. Mr.
Cawdray, refusing to submit, was brought before Archbishop Whitgift, and other high commissioners,
May 14, 1590, and was degraded and deposed from the ministry and made a mere layman. The above
account is abridged from Brook's Lives of the Puritans, London, 1813, pp. 430-43.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

P. S. Besides the Treasurie of Similies, I find the following work under his name in the Bodleian
Catalogue:

    "A Table Alphabeticall; conteyning and teaching the True Writing and
    Vnderstanding of hard vsuall English Wordes, borrowed from the Hebrew,
    Greeke, Latine, or French, &c. London. 8vo. 1604." Thomas Creed, London,
    1609, 4to."

Cawdray was rector of South Luffenham, in Rutland; and was deprived by Bishop Aylmer for nonconformity
in 1587. He appealed to the Court of Exchequer, and his case was argued before all the judges
in 1591. A report of the trial is in Coke's Reports, inscribed "De Jure Regis Ecclesiastico."
There is a Life of Cawdray in Brook's Lives of the Puritans (vol. i. pp. 430-443.), which contains
an interesting account of his examination before the High Commission, extracted from a MS.
register. Notices of him will also be found in Neal's Puritans, 1837 (vol. i. pp. 330. 341.);
and Heylin's History of the Presbyterians, 1672 (fol. p. 317.).

JOHN I. DREDGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MARY, WEEP NO MORE FOR ME."

(Vol. viii., p. 385.)

For the following information respecting the author, and the original, I am indebted to the
Lady's Magazine of 1820, from which I copied it several years ago.

