THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. I.--MAY, 1858.--NO. VII.

AMERICAN ANTIQUITY.

The results of the past ten or fifteen years in historical investigation are exceedingly mortifying
to any one who has been proud to call himself a student of History. We had thought, perhaps,
that we knew something of the origin of human events and the gradual development from the past
into the world of to-day. We had read Herodotus, and Gibbon, and Gillies, and done manful duty
with Rollin. There were certain comfortable, definite facts in antiquity. Romulus and Remus
were our friends; the transmission of the alphabet by the Phoenicians was a resting-spot; the
destruction of Babylon and the date of the Flood were fixed stations in the wilderness. In
more modern periods, we had a refuge in the date of the discovery of America; and if we were
forced back into the wilds and uncertainties of American History, Mr. Prescott soon restored
to us the buried empires, and led us easily back through a few plain centuries.

Beyond these dates, indeed, there was a shadowy land, through whose changing mists could be
seen sometimes the grand outlines of abandoned cities, or the faint forms of temples, or the
graceful column or massive tomb, which marked the distant path of the advancing race: but these
were scarcely more than visions for a moment, before darkness again covered the view. Our mythology
and philosophy of the past were almost equally misty and vague. History was to us a succession
of facts; empire succeeding empire, and one form of civilization another, with scarcely more
connection than in the scenes of a theatre;--the great isolated fact of all being the existence
of the Jews. All cosmic myths and noble conceptions of Deity and pure religious beliefs were
only offshoots of Hebrew tradition.

This, we are pained to say, is all changed now. Our beloved dates, our easy explanation, and
popular narrative are half dissolved under the touch of modern investigation. Roman History
abandons poor Romulus and Remus; the Flood sinks into a local inundation, and is pushed back
nobody knows how many thousands of years; an Egyptian antiquity arises of which Herodotus never
knew; and Josephus is proved ignorant of his own subject. Nothing is found separate from the
current of the world's history,--neither Hebrew law and religion, nor Phoenician commerce,
nor Hindoo mythology, nor Grecian art. On the shadowy Past, over the deserted battle-fields,
the burial-mounds, the mausolea, the temples, the altars, and the habitations of perished nations,
new rays of light are cast. Peoples not heard of before, empires forgotten, conquests not recorded,
arts unknown in their place at this day, and civilizations of which all has perished but the
language, appear again. The world wakes to find itself much older than it thought. History
is hardly the same study that it once was. Even more than the investigations of hieroglyphs
and bass-reliefs and sculptures, during the past few years, have the researches in one especial
direction changed the face of the ancient world.

LANGUAGE is found to be itself the best record of a nation's origin, development, and relation
to other races. Each vocabulary and grammar of a dead nation is a Nineveh, rich in pictures,
inscriptions, and historical records, uncovering to the patient investigator not merely the
external life and actions of the people, but their deepest internal life, and their connection
with other peoples and times. The little defaced word, the cast-away root, the antique construction,
picked up by the student among the vestiges of a language, may be a relic fresher from the
past and older than a stone from the Pyramids, or the sculpture of the Assyrian temple.

In American history, this work of investigation till recently had not been thoroughly entered
upon. Within the last quarter of a century, Kingsborough and Gallatin and Prescott and Davis
and Squier and Schoolcraft and Müller have each thrown some light over the mysterious antiquity
of our own continent. But of all, a French Abbé, an ethnologist and a careful investigator,--M.
BRASSEUR DE BOURBOURG,--has, in a history recently published, done the best service to this
cause. Probably no stranger has ever enjoyed better opportunities of reading the ancient manuscripts
and studying the dialects of the Central American races. With these helps he has prepared a
groundwork for the history of the early civilized peoples of our American continent,--a history,
it should be remembered, ending where Prescott's begins,--reaching back, possibly, as far as
the earliest invasions of the Huns, and one of whose fixed dates is at the time of the Antonines.
He has ventured to lift, at length, the veil from our mysterious and confused American antiquity.
It is an especial merit of M. de Bourbourg, in this stage of the investigation, that he has
attempted to do no more. He has collected and collated facts, but has sought to give us very
few theories. The stable philosophical conclusions he leaves for later research, when time
shall have been afforded for fuller comparison.

There is an incredible fascination to many minds in these investigations into the traditions
and beliefs of antiquity. We feel in their presence that they are the oldest things; the most
ancient books, or buildings, or sculptures are modern by their side. They represent the childish
instincts of the human mind,--its gropings after Truth,--its dim ideals and shadowings forth
of what it hopes will be. They are the earliest answers of man to the great questions, WHENCE
and WHITHER?

       *       *       *       *       *

The most ancient people of Central America, according to M. de Bourbourg,--a people referred
to in all the oldest traditions, but of whom everything except the memory has passed away,--are
the Quinames. Their rule extended over Mexico and Guatemala, and there is reason to suppose
that they attained to a considerable height of civilization. The only accounts of their origin
are the oral traditions repeated to the Spaniards by the Indians of Yucatan,--traditions relating
that the fathers of this great nation came from the East, and that God had delivered them from
the pursuit of their enemies and had opened to them a way over the sea. Other traditions reveal
to us the Quinames as delivered up to the most unnatural vices of ancient society. Whether
the Cyclopean ruins scattered over the continent,--vast masses of stone placed one upon another
without cement, which existed before the splendid cities whose ruins are yet seen in Central
America,--whether these are the work of this race, or of one still older, is entirely uncertain.

The most ancient language of Central America, the ground on which all the succeeding languages
have been planted, is the Maya. Even the Indian languages of to-day are only combinations of
their own idioms with this ancient tongue. Its daughter, the Tzendale, transmits many of the
oldest and most interesting religious beliefs of the Indian tribes.

All the traditions, whether in the Quiche, the Mexican, or the Tzendale, unite in one somewhat
remarkable belief,--in the reverent mention of an ancient Deliverer or Benefactor; a personage
so enveloped in the halo of religious sentiment and the mist of remote antiquity, that it is
difficult to distinguish his real form. With the Tzendale his name is Votan;[A] among the many
other names in other languages, Quetzalcohuatl is the one most distinctive. Sometimes he appears
as a wise and dignified legislator, arrived suddenly among an ignorant people from an unknown
country, to instruct them in agriculture, the arts, and even in religion. He bears suffering
in their behalf, patiently labors for them, and, when at length he has done his work, departs
alone from amid the weeping crowd to the country of his birth. Sometimes he is the mediator
between Deity and men; then again, a personification of the Divine wisdom and glory; and still
again, the noble features seem to be transmuted in the confused tradition into the countenance
of Divinity. Whether this mysterious person is only the American embodiment of the Hope of
all Nations, or whether he was truly a wise and noble legislator, driven by some accident to
these shores from a foreign country, and afterwards glorified by the gratitude of his people,
is uncertain, though our author inclines naturally to the latter supposition. The expression
of the Tzendale tradition, "Votan is the first man whom God sent to divide and distribute these
lands of America," (Vol. I. p. 42,) indicates that he found the continent inhabited, and either
originated the distribution of property or became a conqueror of the country. The evidence
of tradition would clearly prove that at the arrival of Votan the great proportion of the inhabitants,
from the Isthmus of Panama to the territories of California, were in a savage condition. The
builders of the Cyclopean ruins were the only exception.

[Footnote A: The resemblance of this name to the Teutonic Wuotan or Odin is certainly striking
and will afford a new argument to the enthusiastic Rafn, and other advocates of a Scandinavian
colonization of America.--Edd.]

The various traditions agree that this elevated being, the father of American civilization,
inculcated first of all a belief in a Supreme Creator, Lord of Heaven and Earth. It is a singular
fact, that the ancient Quiche tradition represents the Deity as a Triad, or Trinity, with the
deified heroes arranged in orders below,--a representation not improbably connected with the
Hindoo conception. The belief in a Supreme Being seems to have been generally diffused among
the Central American and Mexican tribes, even as late as the arrival of the Spaniards. The
Mexicans adored Him under the name of Ipalnemoaloni, or "Him in whom and by whom we are and
live." This "God of all purity," as he is addressed in a Mexican prayer, was too elevated for
vulgar thought or representation. No altars or temples were erected to him; and it was only
under one of the later kings of the Aztec monarchy that a temple was built to the "Unknown
God."--Vol. I. p. 46.

The founders of the early American civilization bear various titles: they are called "The Master
of the Mountain," "The Heart of the Lake," "The Master of the Azure Surface," and the like.
Even in the native traditions, the questions are often asked: "Whence came these men?" "Under
what climate were they born?" One authority answers thus mysteriously: "They have clearly come
from the other shore of the sea,--from the place which is called 'Camuhifal,'--The place where
is shadow." Why may not this singular expression refer to a Northern country,--a place where
is a long shadow, a winter-night?

A singular characteristic of the ancient Indian legends is the mingling of two separate courses
of tradition. In their poetic conceptions, and perhaps under the hands of their priests, the
old myths of the Creation are constantly confused with the accounts of the first periods of
their civilization.

The following is the most ancient legend of the Creation, from the MSS. of Chichicastenango,
in the Quiche text: "When all that was necessary to be created in heaven and on earth was finished,
the heaven being formed, its angles measured and lined, its limits fixed, the lines and parallels
put in their place in heaven and on earth, heaven found itself created, and Heaven it was called
by the Creator and Maker, the Father and Mother of Life and Existence, ... the Mother of Thought
and Wisdom, the excellence of all that is in heaven and on earth, in the lakes or the sea.
It is thus that he called himself, when all was tranquil and calm, when all was peaceable and
silent, when nothing had movement in the void of the heavens."--Vol. I. p. 48.

In the narrative of the succeeding work of creation, says M. de Bourbourg, there is always
a double sense. Creation and life are civilization; the silence and calm of Nature before the
existence of animated beings are the calm and tranquillity of Ocean, over which a sail is flying
towards an unknown shore; and the first aspect of the shores of America, with its mighty mountains
and great rivers, is confounded with the first appearance of the earth from the chaos of waters.

"This is the first word," says the Quiche text. "There were neither men,
nor animals, nor birds, nor fishes, nor wood, nor stones, nor valleys,
nor herbs, nor forests. There was only the heaven. The image of the
earth did not yet show itself. There was only the sea, on all sides
surrounded by the heaven ... Nothing had motion, and not the least sigh
agitated the air ... In the midst of this calm and this tranquillity,
was only the Father and the Maker, in the obscurity of the night; there
were only the Fathers and Generators on the whitening water, and they
were clad in azure raiment... And it is on account of them that heaven
exists, and exists equally the Heart of Heaven, which is the name of
God."--Vol. I. p. 51.
  What covered all? What sheltered? What
        concealed? An
episode occurs, describing a deluge, but still bearing in it the
traces of the double tradition,--the one referring to some primeval
catastrophe, and the other to a local inundation, which had perhaps
surprised the first legislators in the midst of their efforts. The
Mexican tradition (Codex Chimalpopoca) shows more distinctly the united
action of the Mediator (Quetzalcohuatl) and the Deity:--"From ashes had
God created man and animated him, and they say it is Quetzalcohuatl who
hath perfected him who had been made, and hath breathed into him, on
the seventh day, the breath of life."

Another legend, after describing the creation of men of wood, and women of cibak, (the marrow
of the corn-flag,) tells us that "the fathers and the children, from want of intelligence,
did not use the language which they had received to praise the benefaction of their creation,
and never thought of raising their eyes to praise Hurakan. Then were they destroyed in an inundation.
There descended from heaven a rain of bitumen and resin... And on account of them, the earth
was obscured; and it rained night and day. And men went and came, out of themselves, as if
struck with madness. They wished to mount upon the roofs, and the houses fell beneath them;
when they took refuge in the caves and the grottoes, these closed over them. This was their
punishment and destruction."--Vol. I. p. 55.

In the Mexican tradition, instead of the rain we find a violent eruption of the volcanoes,
and men are changed into fishes, and again into chicime,--which may designate the barbarian
tribes that invaded Central America.

In still another tradition, the Deity and his associates are more plainly men of superior intelligence,
laboring to civilize savage races; and finally, when they cannot inspire two essential elements
of civilization,--a taste for labor, and the religious idea,--a sudden inundation delivers
them from the indocile people. Then--so far as the mysterious language of the legend can be
interpreted--they appear to have withdrawn themselves to a more teachable race. But with these
the difficulty for the new law-givers is that they find nothing corresponding to the productions
of the country from which they had come. Fruits are in abundance, but there is no grain which
requires culture, and which would give origin to a continued industry. The legend relates,
somewhat naively, the hunger and distress of these elevated beings, until at length they discover
the maize, and other nutritious fruits and grains in the county of Paxil and Cayala.

Our author places these latter in the state of Chiapas, and the countries watered by the Usumasinta.
The provinces of Mexico and the Atlantic border of Central America he supposes to be those
where the first legislators of America landed, and where was the cradle of the first American
civilization. In these regions, the great city attributed to Votan,--Palenque,--the ruins of
whose magnificent temples and palaces even yet astonish the traveller, was one of the first
products of this civilization.

With regard to the much-vexed question of the origin of the Indian races, M. de Bourbourg offers
no theory. In his view, the evidence from language establishes no certain connection between
the Indian tribes and any other race whatever; though, as he justly remarks, the knowledge
of the languages of the Northeast of Asia and of the interior of America is yet very limited,
and more complete investigations must be waited for before any very satisfactory conclusions
can be attained. The similarity of the Indian languages points without doubt to a common origin,
while their variety and immense number are indications of a high antiquity; for who can estimate
the succession of years necessary to subdivide a common tongue into so many languages, and
to give birth out of a savage or nomadic life to a civilization like that of the Aztecs?

In the passage of man from one hemisphere to another he sees no difficulty; as, without considering
Behring's Strait, the voyage, from Mantchooria, or Japan, following the chain of the Koorile
and the Aleutian Isles, even to the Peninsula of Alaska, would be an enterprise of no great hazard.

The traditions of the Indian tribes, as well as their monumental inscriptions, point to an
Eastern origin. From whatever direction the particular tribe may have emigrated, they always
speak of their fathers as having come from the rising of the sun. The Quiche, as well as the
Chippeway traditions, allude to the voyages of their fathers from the East, from a cold and
icy region, through a cloudy and wintry sea, to countries as cold and gloomy, from which they
again turned towards the South.

Without committing himself to a theory, M. de Bourbourg supposes that one race--the Quiche--has
passed through the whole North American continent, erecting at different stages of its civilization
those gigantic and mysterious pyramids, the tumuli of the Mississippi Valley,--of whose origin
the present Northern Indian tribes have preserved no trace, and for whose erection no single
American tribe now would have the wealth or the superfluous labor. This race was continually
driven towards the South by more savage tribes, and it at length reached its favorite seats
and the height of its civilization in Central America. In comparing the similar monuments of
Southern Siberia, and the dates of the immigration to the Aztec plateau, with those of the
first movements of the Huns and the great revolutions in Asia, an indication is given, worthy
of being followed up by the ethnologist, of the Asiatic origin of the Central American tribes.
The traditions, monuments, customs, mythology, and astronomic systems all point to a similar
source.

The thorough study of the aboriginal races reveals the fact, that the whole continent, from
the Arctic regions to the Southern Pole, was divided irregularly between two distinct families;--one
nomadic and savage, the other agricultural and semi-civilized; one with no institutions or
polity or organized religion, the other with regular forms of government and hierarchical and
religious systems. Though differing so widely, and little associated with each other, they
possessed an analogous physical constitution, analogous customs, idioms, and grammatical forms,
many of which were entirely different from those of the Old World.

At the period of the discovery of America, not a single tribe west of the Rocky Mountains possessed
the least agricultural skill. Whether the superiority of the Central American and Mexican tribes
was due to more favorable circumstances and a more genial climate, or to the instructions of
foreign legislators, as their traditions relate, our author does not decide. In his view, American
agriculture originated in Central America, and was not one of the sciences brought over by
the tribes who first emigrated from Asia. I. p. 85.

The truly historical records of Central America go back to a period but little before the Christian
era. Beyond that epoch, we behold through the mists of legends, and in the defaced pictures
and sculptures, a hierarchical despotism sustained by the successors of the mysterious Votan.
The empire of the Votanides is at length ruined by its own vices and by the attacks of a vigorous
race, whose records and language have come down even to our day,--the only race on the American
continent whose name has been preserved in the memory of the peoples after the ruin of its
power, the only one whose institutions have survived its own existence,--the Xahoa, or Toltec.

Of all the American languages, the Nahuatl holds the highest place, for its richness of expression
and its sonorous tone,--adapting itself with equal flexibility to the most sublime and analytic
terms of metaphysics, and to the uses of ordinary life, so that even at this day the Englishman
and the Spaniard employ its vocabulary for natural objects.

The traditions of the Nahoas describe their life in the distant Oriental country from which
they came:--"There they multiplied to a considerable degree, and lived without civilization.
They had not then acquired the habit of separating themselves from the places which had seen
them born; they paid no tributes; and all spoke a single language. They worshipped neither
wood nor stone; they contented themselves with raising their eyes to heaven and observing the
law of the Creator. They waited with respect for the rising of the sun, saluting with their
invocations the morning star."

This is their prayer, handed down in Indian tradition,--the oldest piece extant of American
liturgy:--"Hail, Creator and Former! Regard us! Listen to us! Heart of Heaven! Heart of the
Earth! do not leave us! Do not abandon us, God of Heaven and Earth!... Grant us repose, a glorious
repose, peace and prosperity! the perfection of life and of our being grant to us, O Hurakan!"

What country and what sun nourished this worship and gave origin to this great people is as
uncertain as all other facts of the early American history. They came from the East, the tradition
says; they landed, it seems certain, at Panuco, near the present port of Tampico, from seven
barks or ships. Other traditions represent them as accompanied by sages with venerable beards
and flowing robes. They finally settled somewhere on the coast between Campeachy and the river
Tabasco, and founded the ancient city of Xicalanco. Their chief, who in the reverent affection
of the nation became afterwards their Deity, was Quetzalcohuatl. The myths which surround his
name reveal to us a wise legislator and noble benefactor. He is seen instructing them in the
arts, in religion, and finally in agriculture, by introducing the cultivation of maize and
other cereals.

Whether he had become the object of envy among the people, or whether he felt that his work
was done, it appears, so far as the vague traditions can be understood, that he at length determined
to return to the unknown country whence he had come. He gathered his brethren around him and
thus addressed them:--"Know," said he, "that the Lord your God commands you to dwell in these
lands which he hath subjected to you this day. For him, he returns whence he has come. But
he goes only to return later; for he will visit you again, when the time shall have arrived
in which the world shall have come to an end.[C] In the mean while wait, ye others, in these
countries, with the hope of seeing him again!...Thus farewell, while we depart with our God!"

[Footnote C: This is the expression of the legend, and certainly points to the ideas of the
Eastern hemisphere. The coincidence with the legends of Hiawatha and the Finnish Wainamoinen
will be remarked.--EDD.]

We will not follow the interesting narrative of the destruction of the ancient empire of the
Votanides by the Nahoas or Toltecs; nor the account of the dispersion of these latter over
Guatemala, Yucatan, and even among the mountains of California. This last revolution presents
the first precise date which scholars have yet been able to assign to early American history;
it probably occurred A.D. 174.

With the account of the invasion of the Aztec plateau by the Chichemees, a barbarian tribe
of the Toltec family, in the middle of the seventh century, or of the establishment of the
Toltec monarchy in Anahuac, we will not delay our readers, as these events bring us down to
the period of authentic history, on which we have information from other sources.

"From the moment," says M. de Bourbourg, "in which we see the supremacy of the cities of Culhuacan
and Tollan rise over the cities of the Aztec plateau dates the true history of this country;
but this history is, to speak the truth, only a grand episode in the annals of this powerful
race [the Toltec]. In the course of a wandering of seven or eight centuries, it overturns and
destroys everything in order to build on the ruins of ancient kingdoms its own civilization,
science, and arts; it traverses all the provinces of Mexico and Central America, leaving everywhere
traces of its superstitions, its culture, and its laws, sowing on its passage kingdoms and
cities, whose names are forgotten to-day, but whose mysterious memorials are found again in
the monuments scattered under the forest vegetation of ages and in the different languages
of all the peoples of these countries."--Vol. I. p. 209.

M. de Bourbourg fitly closes his interesting volumes--from which we have here given a résumé
of only the opening chapters--with a remarkable prophecy, made in the court of Yucatan by the
high-priest of Mani. According to the tradition, this pontiff, inspired by a supernatural vision,
betook himself to Mayapan and thus addressed the king:--"At the end of the Third Period, [A.D.
1518-1542,] a nation, white and bearded, shall come from the side where the sun rises, bearing
with it a sign, [the cross,] which shall make all the Gods to flee and fall. This nation shall
rule all the earth, giving peace to those who shall receive it in peace and who will abandon
vain images to adore an only God, whom these bearded men adore." (Vol. II. p. 594.) M. de Bourbourg
does not vouch for the pure origin of the tradition, but suggests that the wise men of the
Quiche empire already saw that it contained in itself the elements of destruction, and had
already heard rumors of the wonderful white race which was soon to sweep away the last vestiges
of the Central American governments.

[NOTE.--We cannot but think that our correspondent receives the traditions reported by M. de
Bourbourg with too undoubting faith. Some of them seem to us to bear plain marks of an origin
subsequent to the Spanish Conquest, and we suspect that others have been considerably modified
in passing through the lively fancy of the Abbé. Even Ixtlilxochitl, who, as a native and of
royal race, must have had access to all sources of information, and who had the advantage of
writing more than three centuries ago, seems to have looked on the native traditions as extremely
untrustworthy. See Prescott's History of the Conquest of Mexico, Vol. I. p. 12, note.--EDD.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ROGER PIERCE

The Man With Two Shadows.

"There is ever a black spot in our sunshine." Carlyle.

The sky is gray with unfallen sleet; the wind howls bitterly about the house; relentless in
its desperate speed, it whirls by green crosses from the fir-boughs in the wood,--dry russet
oak-leaves,--tiny cones from the larch, that were once rose-red with the blood of Spring, but
now rattle on the leafless branches, black and bare as they. No leaf remains on any bough of
the forest, no scarlet streamer of brier flaunts from the steadfast rocks that underlie all
verdure, and now stand out, bleak and barren, the truths and foundations of life, when its
ornate glories are fled away. The river flows past, a languid stream of lead; a single crow,
screaming for its mate, flaps heavily against the north-east gale, that enters here also and
lifts the carpet in long waves across the floor, whiffles light eddies of ashes in the chimney-corner,
and vainly presses on door and window, like a houseless spirit shrieking and pining for a shelter
from its bodiless and helpless unrest in the elements.

The whole air,--although, within, my fire crackles and leaps with steady cheer, and the red
rose on my window is warm and sanguine with bloom,--yet this whole air is full of tiny sparks
of chill to my sensitive and morbid nature; it is at once electric and cold, the very atmosphere
of spirits.--What a shadow passed that pane! Roger, was it you?--The storm bursts, in one fierce
rush of sleet and roaring wind; the little spaniel crouched at my feet whimpers and nestles
closer; the house is silent,--silent as my thoughts,--silent as he is who walked these rooms
once, with a face likest to the sky that darkens them now, and lonelier, lonelier than I, though
at his side forever trod a companion.

This valley of the Moosic is narrow and thinly settled. Here and there the mad river, leaping
from some wooded gorge to rest among the hemlock-covered islands that break its smoother path
between the soft meadows, is crossed by a strong dam; and a white village, with its church
and graveyard, clusters against the hill-side, sweeping upward from the huge mills that stand
along the shore just below the bridge. Here and there, too, out of sight of mill or village,
a quiet farmer's house, trimly painted, with barns and hay-stacks and wood-piles drawn up in
goodly array, stands in its old orchard, and offers the front of a fortress against want and
misery. Idle aspect! fortress of vain front! there are intangible foes that no man may conquer!
In such a stronghold was born Roger Pierce, the Man with two Shadows.

He was the son of good and upright parents. Before he came into their arms, three tiny shapes
had lain there, one after another, for a few brief weeks, smiled, moaned, and fallen asleep,--to
sleep, forever children, under the daisies and golden-rods. For this reason they cling to little
Roger with passionate apprehension; they fought with the Angel of Death, and overcame; and,
as it ever is to the blind nature of man, the conquest was greater to them than any gift.

The boy grew up into childhood as other children grow, a daily miracle to see. Only for him
incessant care watched and waited; unwearied as the angel that looked from him to the face
of God, so to gather ever fresh strength and guidance for the wayward child, his mother's tender
eyes overlooked him all day, followed his tottering steps from room to room, kept far away
from him all fear and pain, shone upon him in the depths of night, woke and wept for him always.
Never could he know the hardy self-reliance of those whom life casts upon their own strength
and care; the wisdom and the love that lived for him lived in him, and he grew to be a boy
as the tropic blossom of a hot-house grows, without thought or toil.

It was not until his age brought him in contact with others, that there seemed to be any difference
between his nature and the common race of children. Always, however, some touch of sullenness
lurked in his temperament; and whatever thwarted his will or fancy darkened the light of his
clear eyes, and drew a dull pallor over his blooming cheek, till his mother used to tell him
at such times that he stood between her and the sunshine.

But as he grew older, and shared in the sports of his companions, a strange thing came to pass.
Beside the shadow that follows us all in the light, another, like that, but something deeper,
began to go with Roger Pierce,--not falling with the other, a dial-mark to show the light that
cast it, but capriciously to right or left; on whomever or whatever was nearest him at the
moment, there that Shadow lay; and as time crept on, the Shadow pertinaciously crept with it,
till it was forever hanging about him, ready to chill with vague terror, or harden as with
a frost, either his fellows or himself.

One peculiar trait this Shadow had: the more the restless child thought of his visitant, the
deeper it grew,--shrinking in size, but becoming more intensely dark, till it seemed like part
of a heavy thunder-cloud, only that no lightning ever played across its blank gloom.

The first time that the Shadow ever stood before him as an actual presence was when, a mere
child, he was busied one day in the warm May sunshine making a garden by the school-house,
in a line with other little squares, tracked and moulded by childish fingers, and set with
branches of sallow silvered with downy catkins, half-opened dandelions, twigs of red-flowered
maple, mighty reservoirs of water in sunken clam-shells, and paths adorned with borders of
broken china and glittering bits of glass. Next to Roger's garden-bed was one that belonged
to two little boys who were sworn friends, and one of these was busy weaving a fence for his
garden, of yellow willow-twigs, which the other cut and sharpened.

Roger looked on with longing eyes.

"Will you help me, Jimmy?" said he.

"I can't," answered the quiet, timid child.

"No!" shouted Jacob,--the frank, fearless voice bringing a tint of color into his comrade's
cheek. "Jim shan't help you, Roger Pierce! Do you ever help anybody?"

Then the Shadow fell beside Roger, as he stood with anger and shame swelling in his throat;
it fell across the blue violets he had taken from Jacob to dress his own garden, and they drooped
and withered; it crossed the path of shining pebbles that he had forced the younger children
to gather for him, and they grew dull as common stones; it reached over into Jacob's positive,
honest face, and darkened it, and Jimmy, looking up, with fear in his mild eyes, whispered,
softly,--"Come away! it's going to rain;--don't you see that dark cloud?"

Roger started, for the Shadow was darkening about himself; and as he moodily returned home,
it seemed to grow deeper and deeper, till his mother drew his head upon her knee, and by the
singing fire told him tales of her own childhood, and from the loving brightness of her tender
eyes the Shadow slunk away and left the boy to sleep, unhaunted.

As day by day went by, in patient monotony, Roger became daily more aware of this ghostly attendant.
He was not always alone, for he had friends who loved him in spite of the Shadow, and grew
used to its appearing;--but he liked to be by himself; for, out of constant companionship and
daily use, this Shadow made for itself a strange affinity with him, and following his daily
rambles over the sharp hills, tracing to their source the noisy brooks, or setting snares for
the wild creatures whose innocent timid eyes peered at their little enemy curiously from nook
and crevice, he grew to have a moody pleasure in the knowledge that nothing else disturbed
his path or shared his amusements.

But a time came when he must mix more with the outer world; for he was sent away from home
to school, and there, amid a host of strange faces, he singled out the only one that had a
thought of his past life and home in it, as his special companion,--the same quiet boy who
had unconsciously feared the Shadow in their earlier school-days.

So good and gentle was he, that he did not feel the cloud of Roger's hateful Double as every
one else did; and he even won the boy himself to except him only from a certain suspicion that
had lately sprung from, his own consciousness of his burden,--a suspicion gradually growing
into a belief that all the world had such a Shadow as his own.

Now this was not a strange result of so painful a reality. Seeing, as Roger Pierce did, in
every action of others toward himself the dark atmosphere of the Shadow that was peculiarly
his own, he watched also their mutual actions, and, throwing from his own obscurity a shade
over all human deeds, he became possessed of the monomania, a practical belief that every mortal
man, except it might be Jimmy Doane, was followed and overlooked by this terrible Second Shadow.

In proportion as the gloom of this black Presence seemed to be lightened over any one was his
esteem for him; but by daily looking so steadily and with such a will to see only darkness
in the hearts of men, he discovered traces of the Shadow even in Jimmy Doane,--and the darkness
shut down, like night at sea, over all the world then.

Now Roger was miserable enough, knowing well that he could escape, if he would; for there had
come with his increasing sense of his tyrant, a knowledge that every time he thought of the
Shadow it darkened more deeply than ever, and that in forgetting it lay his only hope of escape
from its power. But withal there was a morbid pleasure, the reflex influence of habit and indolence,
that mingled curiously with his longing desire to forget his Double, but rendered it impossible
to do so without a greater effort than he cared to make, or some help from another hand; and
soon that help seemed to come.

When Roger left his home for school, he left in the quaint oak cradle a little baby-sister,
too young to have a place in his thought as a definite existence; but after an absence of two
years he came back to find in her a new phase of life, into which the Shadow could not yet enter.

The child's name her own childish tongue had softened into "Sunny," a name that was the natural
expression of her sunshiny traits, the clear gay voice, the tranquil azure eyes, the golden
curls, the loving looks, that made Sunny the darling of the house,--the stray sunbeam that
glanced through the doors, flitted by the heavy wainscots, and danced up the dusky stairways
of that old and solitary dwelling.

When Roger returned, fresh from the rough companionship of school, Sunny seemed to him a creature
of some better race than his own. The Shadow vanished, for he forgot it in his new devotion
to Sunny. Nothing did he leave undone to please her wayward fancies. In those hot summer-days,
he carried her to a little brook that rippled across the meadow, and, sitting with her in his
arms on the large smooth stones that divided those shallow waters, held her carefully while
she splashed her tiny dimpled feet in the cool ripples, or grasped vainly at the blue-winged
dragon-flies sailing past, on languid, airy pinions, just beyond her reach. Or he gathered
heaps of daisies for the child to toss into the shining stream, and see the pale star-like
blossoms float smoothly down till some eddy caught them in its sparkling whirl, and, drenching
the frail, helpless leaves, cast them on the farther shore and went its careless way. Or he
told her, in the afternoons, under some wide apple-tree, wonderful stories of giants and naughty
boys, till she fell asleep on the sweet hay, where the curious grasshoppers peered at her with
round horny eyes, and velvet-bodied spiders scurried across her fair curls with six-legged
speed, and the robin eyed her from a bough above with wistful glances, till Roger must needs
carry her tenderly out of their neighborhood to his mother's gentle care.

All this guard and guidance Sunny repaid with her only treasure, love. She left her pet kitten
in its gayest antics to sit on Roger's knee; she went to sleep at night nestled against his
arm; every little dainty that she gathered from garden or field was shared with him; and no
pleasure that did not include Roger could tempt Sunny to be pleased.

For a while the unconscious charm endured; absorbed in his darling, Roger forgot the Shadow,
or remembered it only at rare intervals; and in that brief time every one seemed to grow better
and lovelier. He did not see in this the coloring of his own more kindly thoughts.

But when, at length, the novelty of Sunny's presence wore off, her claims grew tiresome. In
the faith of her child's heart, she came as frankly to Roger for help or comfort as she had
ever done; and he found his own plans for study or pleasure constantly interrupted by her requests
or caresses, till the Shadow darkened again beside him, and, looking over his shoulder, fell
so close to Sunny, that his old belief drew its veil across his eyes for a moment, and he started
at the sight of what he dreaded,--a Shadow haunting Sunny.

Then,--though this first dread passed away,--slowly, but creeping on with unfailing certainty,
the Shadow returned. It fell like a brooding storm over the fireside of home; he fancied a
like shadow following his mother's steps, darkening his baby-sister's smile; and as if in revenge
for so long an absence, the Shadow forced itself upon him more strenuously than ever, till
poor Roger Pierce was like a bruised and beaten child,--too sore to have peace or rest, too
sensitive to bear any remedy for his ailment, and too petulant to receive or expect sympathy
from any other and more gentle nature than his own.

It was long before the Shadow made itself felt by Sunny. She never saw it as others did. If
its chill passed over her warm rosy face, she stole up softly to her brother, and, with a look
of pure childish love, put her hand in his, and said softly, "Poor Roger!" or, with a keener
sense of the Presence, forbore to touch him, but played off her kitten's merriest tricks before
him, or rolled her tiny hoop with shouts of laughter across the old house-dog as he slept on
the grass, looking vainly for the smile Roger had always given to her baby plays before.

So by degrees she went back to her own pleasures, full of tender thought for every living thing,
and a loving consciousness of their wants and ways. Her lisping voice chattered brook-like
to birds and bees; her lip curled grievously over the broken wing of a painted moth, or the
struggles of a drowning fly; in Nature's company she played as with an infant ever divine;
and no darkness assailed the never-weary child.

But Roger grew daily closer to his Shadow, and gave himself up to its dominion, till his mother
saw the bondage, and tried, mourning, every art and device to win him away from the evil spirit,
but tried in vain. So they lived till Sunny was four years old, when suddenly, one bright day
in June, she left the roses in her garden with broken stems, but ungathered, and, tottering
into the house, fell across the threshold, flushed and sleepy,--as they who lifted her saw
at once, in the first stage of a fever.

This unexpected blow once more severed Roger from his Shadow. He watched his little sister
with a heart full of anxious regret, yet so fully wrapt in her wants and danger, that the gloomy
Shadow, which looked afar off at his self-accusations, dared not once intrude.

At length that day of crisis came, the pause of fever and delirium, desired, yet dreaded, by
every trembling, fearful heart that hung over the child's pillow. If she slept, the physician
said, her fate hung on the waking; life or death would seal her when sleep resigned its claim.
It was early morning when this sentence was given; in an hour's time the fever had subsided,
the flush passed from Sunny's cheek, and she slept, watched breathlessly by Roger and his mother.
The curtains of the room were half drawn to give the little creature air, and there rustled
lightly through them a low south wind, bearing the delicate perfume of blossoms, and the lulling
murmur of bees singing at their sweet toil.

Roger was weary with watching; the chiming sounds of Summer, the low ticking of the old clock
on the stairs, and the utter quiet within, soothed him to slumber; his head bent forward and
rested on the bedside; he fell asleep, and in his sleep he dreamed.

Over Sunny's pillow (for in this dream he seemed to himself waking and watching) he saw a hovering
spirit, the incarnate shape of Light, gazing at the sleeping child with ineffable tenderness;
but its keen eyes caught the aspect of Roger's Shadow; the pure lineaments glowed with something
more divinely awful than anger, and with levelled lance it assailed that evil Presence and
bore it to the ground; but the Shadow slipped aside from the spear, and cowered into distance;
the angelic face saddened, and, stooping downward, folded Sunny in its arms as if to bear her away.

Roger woke with his own vain attempt to grasp and detain the child. The setting sun streamed
in at the window, and his mother stood at his side, brought by some inarticulate sound from
Sunny's lips.

She sent the boy to call his father, and when they came in together, the child's wide blue
eyes were open, full of supernatural calm; her parched lips parted with a faint smile; and
the loose golden curls pushed off her forehead, where the blue veins crept, like vivid stains
of violet, under the clear skin.

"Dear mother!" she said, raising her arms slowly, to be lifted on the pillow; but the low,
hoarse voice had lost its music.

Then she turned to her father with that strange bright smile, and again to Roger, uttering
faintly,--

"Stand away, Roger; Sunny wants the light."

They drew all the curtain opposite her bed away, and, as she stretched her hands eagerly toward
the window, the last rays of sunshine glowed on her pale illuminated face, till it was even
as an angel's, and Roger caught a sudden gleam of wings across the air; but a cold pain struck
him as he gazed, for Sunny fell backward on her pillow. She had gone with the sunshine.

It seemed now for a time as if the phantasm that haunted Roger Pierce were banished at last.
His moody reserve disappeared; he addressed himself with quiet, constant effort to console
his mother,--to aid his father,--to fill, so far as he could, the vacant place; and his heart
longed with an incessant thirst for the bright Spirit that hovered in his dream over Sunny;--he
seemed almost to have begun a natural and healthy life.

But year after year passed away, and the light of Sunny's influence faded with her fading memory.
Green turf grew over her short grave, and the long slant shadow of its headstone no longer
lay on a foot-worn track. Roger's pilgrimages to that spot were over; his heart had ceased
to remember. The Shadow had reassumed its power, and reigned.

Still through its obscurity he kept one gleam of light,--an admiration undiminished for those
who seemed to have no such attendance; but daily the number of these grew less.

At length, after the studies of his youth were over, and he had returned to his old home for
life, there came over the settled and brooding darkness of his soul a warm ray of dawn. In
some way, as naturally as one meets a fresh wind full of vernal odor and life, yet never marks
the moment of its first caress, so naturally, so unmarkedly, he renewed a childish acquaintance
with Violet Channing, a dweller in the same quiet valley with himself, though for long years
the fine threads of circumstance had parted them.

Not a stone, and the frail green moss that clings to it, are more essentially different than
were Roger Pierce and Violet Channing. Without a trace of the Shadow in herself, Violet disbelieved
its existence in others. She had heard a rumor of Roger's phantom, but thought it some strange
delusion, or want of perception, in those who told her,--being rather softened toward him with
pity that he should be so little understood.

In the first days of their acquaintance, it seemed as if the light of the girl's face would
have dispelled forever the darkness of her companion's Shadow, it was so mild and quiet a shining,--not
the mere outer lustre of beauty, but the deep informing expression of that Spirit which had
companioned Sunny heavenward.

With Violet, soothed by the timid sweetness of her manner, aroused by her sudden flashes of
mirth and vivid enthusiasm, Roger seemed to forget his hateful companion, or remembered it
only to be consoled by her tender eyes that beamed with pity and affection.

Month after month this intimacy went on, brightening daily in Roger's mind the ideal picture
of his new friend, but creating in her only a deeper sympathy and a more devout compassion
for his wretched and oppressed life. But as years instead of months went by, the sole influence
no longer rested with the girl, drawing Roger Pierce upward, as she longed and strove to do,
into her own sunshine. Their mutual relation had only lightened his darkness in part, while
it had drawn over her the faint twilight of a Shadow like his own. But as the chief characteristic
of this unearthly Thing was that it grew by notice, as some strange Eastern plants live on
air, it throve but slowly near to Violet Channing, whose thoughts were bent on curing the heart-evil
of Roger Pierce, and were so absorbed in that patient care that they had little chance to turn
upon herself; though, when patience almost failed, and, weary with fruitless labor and unanswered
yearning, her heart sunk, she was conscious of a vague influence that made the sunbeams fall
coldly, and the songs of Summer mournful.

Hour after hour she lavished all the treasure she knew, and much that she knew not consciously,
to beguile the darkness from Roger's brow; or recalled again and again her own deeds and words,
to review them with strict judgment, lest they might have set provocation in his path; till
at length her loving thoughts grew restless and painful, her face paled, her frame wasted away,
and over her deep melancholy eyes the Shadow hung like a black tempest reflected in some clear
lake.

Roger was not blind to this change; he did not see who had cast the first veil of darkness
over the pure light that had shone so freely for him; and while he silently regretted what
he deemed the desecration of the spotless image he had loved, nothing whispered that it was
his own Shadow brooding above the true heart that had toiled so faithfully and long for his
enlightening.

The most painful result of all to Violet was the new coldness of Roger's manner to her. Shadowed
as he was, he did not perceive this change in himself; but Violet, in the silence of night,
or in the solitary hours she spent in wood and field beside her growing Shadow, felt it with
unmingled pain. Vainly did the Spirit of Light within her counsel her to persevere, looking
only at the end she would achieve; subtler and more penetrative to her untuned ear were the
words of the fiend at her side.

One day she had brooded long and drearily on the carelessness and coldness of her dear, her
disregardful friend, and in her worn and weary soul revolved whatever sweetness of the past
had now fled, and what pangs of love repulsed and devotion scorned lay before her in the miserable
future; and as she held her throbbing head upon her hands, wasted with fiery pulses, it seemed
to her as if the Shadow, inclining to her ear, whispered, almost audibly,--

"Think what you have given this man!--your hope and peace; the breath of your life and the
beatings of your heart. All your soul is lavished on him, and see how he repays you!"

The weak and disheartened girl shivered; the time was past when she could have despised the
voice of this dread companion, when the Shadow dared not have spoken thus; and with bitter
tears swelling into her eyes she and the Shadow walked forth together to a haunt on the mountain-side
where she had been used to meet Roger.

It was a bare rock, just below the summit of a peak crowned with a few old cedars, from whose
laborious growth of dull, dark foliage long streamers of gray moss waved in the wind. There
were scattered crags about their roots, against whose lichen-covered sides the autumn sun shone
fruitlessly; and from the leafless forests in the deep valley beneath rose a whispering sound,
as if they shuddered, and were stirred by some foreboding horror.

Violet made her way to this height as eagerly as her lessened strength and panting heart allowed;
but as she lifted her eyes from the narrow path she had tracked upward, they rested on the
last face she wished to meet, the gloomy visage of Roger Pierce. The girl hesitated, and would
have drawn back, but Roger bade her come near.

"There is no need of your going, Violet," said he; and she crouched quietly on the rock at
his feet, silently, but with fixed eyes, regarding the double nature before her, the Man and
his Shadow.

Still upward from the valley crept that low shiver of dread; the pale sun shed its listless
light on the gray rocks and dusky cedars; the silent unexpectant earth seemed to have paused;
all things were wrapt in vague awe and dim apprehension; some inexpressible fatality seemed
to oppress life and breath.

A sudden impulse of escape, desperate in its strength, possessed Violet; perhaps to name that
Thing that clung so closely to Roger might shake its power,--and with a trembling, vibrating
voice she spoke:--

"Roger,--you are thinking of the Shadow?"

He did not move, nor at once speak; no new expression stirred his dark face; at length he answered,
in a voice that seemed to come from some lips far away, in an unechoing distance:--

"The Shadow?--Yes. I see it in all faces. It lies on the valley yonder; in the air; on every
mortal brow and lip it gathers deeper yet. Violet, you, too, share the Shadow!"

Slowly, as if his words froze her, Violet rose and turned toward him; a light shone from her
eyes that melted their dark depths into the radiance of high noon; and she spoke with a thrilled,
yet unfaltering tone:--

"Yes, I share it, it is true. I feel and see the gloom; but if the Shadow haunts me, Roger
Pierce, ask your own heart who cast it there! When we were first friends, I knew nothing of
that darkness. I tried with all purity and compassion to draw you upward into light; and for
reward, you have wrapped your own blackness round me, and hate your own doing. My work is over,--is
in vain! It remains only that I free myself from this Shadow, and leave you to the mercy of
a Power with whom no such Presence can cope,--in whom no darkness nor shadow may abide."

She turned to leave him with these words, but cast back a look of such love and tender pity,
that she seemed to Roger the very Spirit that had borne Sunny away.

Bewildered and pained to the heart, he groped his way homeward, and night lapsed into morning,
and returned and went again more than once, ere sleep returned to his eyes.

Violet kept no vigils; she wept herself asleep as a child against its mother's bosom, and loving
eyes guarded that childlike rest. But Roger's waking was haunted with remorse and fearful expectation;
and as days crept by, and Memory, like one who fastens the galley-slave to his oar, still pressed
on his thoughts the constant patience, toil, and affection of Violet Channing, he felt how
truly she had spoken of him, and from his soul abhorred the Shadow of his life.

Here he vanishes. Whether with successful conflict he fought with the evil and prevailed, and
showed himself a man,--or whether the Thing renewed its dominion, and he drew to himself another
nature, not for the good power of its pure contact, but for the further increase of that darkness,
and the blinding of another soul, is never yet to be known.

Of Violet Channing he saw no more; with her his sole earthly redemption had fled; she went
her way, free henceforward from the Shadow, and guarded in the arms of the shining Spirit.

The wind yet howls and dashes without; the rain, rushing in gusts on roof and casement, keeps
no time nor tune; the fire is dead in the ashes; the red rose, in the lessening light, turns
gray;--but far away to the south the cloud begins to scatter; faint amber steals along the
crest of the distant hills; after all evils, hope remains,--even for a Man with two Shadows.
Let us, perhaps his kindred after the spirit, not despair.

AMOURS DE VOYAGE.

  VI.--CLAUDE TO EUSTACE.

  VII.--CLAUDE TO EUSTACE. I must,--I must,--and I do
       it.

  XI--CLAUDE TO EUSTACE.

INTELLECTUAL CHARACTER.

The desire, the duty, the necessity of the age in which we live is education, or that culture
which developes, enlarges, and enriches each individual intelligence, according to the measure
of its capacity, by familiarizing it with the facts and laws of nature and human life. But,
in this rage for information, we too often overlook the mental constitution of the being we
would inform,--detaching the apprehensive from the active powers, weakening character by overloading
memory, and reaping a harvest of imbeciles after we may have flattered ourselves we had sown
a crop of geniuses. No person can be called educated, until he has organized his knowledge
into faculty, and wields it as a weapon. We purpose, therefore, to invite the attention of
our readers to some remarks on Intellectual Character, the last and highest result of intellectual
education, and the indispensable condition of intellectual success.

It is evident, that, when a young man leaves his school or college to take his place in the
world, it is indispensable that he be something as well as know something; and it will require
but little experience to demonstrate to him that what he really knows is little more than what
he really is, and that his progress in intellectual manhood is not more determined by the information
he retains, than by that portion which, by a benign provision of Providence, he is enabled
to forget. Youth, to be sure, is his,--youth, in virtue of which he is free of the universe,--youth,
with its elastic vigor, its far-darting hopes, its generous impatience of prudent meanness,
its grand denial of instituted falsehood, its beautiful contempt of accredited baseness,--but
youth which must now concentrate its wayward energies, which must discourse with facts and
grapple with men, and through strife and struggle, and the sad wisdom of experience, must pass
from the vague delights of generous impulses to the assured joy of manly principles. The moment
he comes in contact with the stern and stubborn realities which frown on his entrance into
practical life, he will find that power is the soul of knowledge, and character the condition
of intelligence. He will discover that intellectual success depends primarily on qualities
which are not strictly intellectual, but personal and constitutional. The test of success is
influence,--that is, the power of shaping events by informing, guiding, animating, controlling
other minds. Whether this influence be exerted directly in the world of practical affairs,
or indirectly in the world of ideas, its fundamental condition is still force of individual
being, and the amount of influence is the measure of the degree of force, just as an effect
measures a cause. The characteristic of intellect is insight,--insight into things and their
relations; but then this insight is intense or languid, clear or confused, comprehensive or
narrow, exactly in proportion to the weight and power of the individual who sees and combines.
It is not so much the intellect that makes the man, as the man the intellect; in every act
of earnest thinking, the reach of the thought depends on the pressure of the will; and we would
therefore emphasize and enforce, as the primitive requirement of intellectual success, that
discipline of the individual which developes dim tendencies into positive sentiments, sentiments
into ideas, and ideas into abilities,--that discipline by which intellect is penetrated through
and through with the qualities of manhood, and endowed with arms as well as eyes. This is Intellectual
Character.

Now it should be thundered in the ears of every young man who has passed through that course
of instruction ironically styled education, "What do you intend to be, and what do you intend
to do? Do you purpose to play at living, or do you purpose to live?--to be a memory, a word-cistern,
a feeble prater on illustrious themes, one of the world's thousand chatterers, or a will, a
power, a man?" Look around you in the community of educated men, and see how many, who started
on their career with minds as bright and eager and hearts as hopeful as yours, have been mysteriously
arrested in their growth,--have lost all the kindling sentiments which glorified their youthful
studies, and dwindled into complacent echoes of surrounding mediocrity,--have begun, indeed,
to die on the very threshold of manhood, and stand in society as tombs rather than temples
of immortal souls. See, too, the wide disconnection between knowledge and life;--heaps of information
piled upon little heads; everybody speaking,--few who have earned the right to speak; maxims
enough to regenerate a universe,--a woful lack of great hearts, in which reason, right, and
truth, regal and militant, are fortified and encamped! Now this disposition to skulk the austere
requirements of intellectual growth in an indolent surrender of the mind's power of self-direction
must be overcome at the outset, or, in spite of your grand generalities, you will be at the
mercy of every bullying lie, and strike your colors to every mean truism, and shape your life
in accordance with every low motive, which the strength of genuine wickedness or genuine stupidity
can bring to bear upon you. There is no escape from slavery, or the mere pretence of freedom,
but in radical individual power; and all solid intellectual culture is simply the right development
of individuality into its true intellectual form.

And first, at the risk of being considered metaphysical,--though we fear no metaphysician would
indorse the charge,--let us define what we mean by individuality; for the word is commonly
made to signify some peculiarity or eccentricity, some unreasonable twist, of mind or disposition.
An individual, then, in the sense in which we use the term, is a causative spiritual force,
whose root and being are in eternity, but who lives, grows, and builds up his nature in time.
All the objects of sense and thought, all facts and ideas, all things, are external to his
essential personality. But he has bound up in his personal being sympathies and capacities
which ally him with external objects, and enable him to transmute their inner spirit and substance
into his own personal life. The process of his growth, therefore, is a development of power
from within to assimilate objects from without, the power increasing with every vital exercise
of it. The result of this assimilation is character. Character is the spiritual body of the
person, and represents the individualization of vital experience, the conversion of unconscious
things into self-conscious men. Sir Thomas Browne, in quaint reference to the building up of
our physical frame through the food we eat, declares that we have all been on our own trenchers;
and so, on the same principle, our spiritual faculties can be analyzed into impersonal facts
and ideas, whose life and substance we have converted into personal reason, imagination, and
passion. The fundamental characteristic of man is spiritual hunger; the universe of thought
and matter is spiritual food. He feeds on Nature; he feeds on ideas; he feeds, through art,
science, literature, and history, on the acts and thoughts of other minds; and could we take
the mightiest intellect that ever awed and controlled the world, and unravel his powers, and
return their constituent particles to the multitudinous objects whence they were derived, the
last probe of our analysis, after we had stripped him of all his faculties, would touch that
unquenchable fiery atom of personality which had organized round itself such a colossal body
of mind, and which, in its simple naked energy, would still be capable of rehabilitating itself
in the powers and passions of which it had been shorn.

It results from this doctrine of the mind's growth, that success in all the departments of
life over which intellect holds dominion depends, not merely on an outside knowledge of the
facts and laws connected with each department, but on the assimilation of that knowledge into
instinctive intelligence and active power. Take the good farmer, and you will find that ideas
in him are endowed with will, and can work. Take the good general, and you will find that the
principles of his profession are inwrought into the substance of his nature, and act with the
velocity of instincts. Take the good judge, and in him jurisprudence seems impersonated, and
his opinions are authorities. Take the good merchant, and you will find that commerce, in its
facts and laws, seems in him embodied, and that his sagacity appears identical with the objects
on which it is exercised. Take the great statesman, take Webster, and note how, by thoroughly
individualizing his comprehensive experience, he seems to carry a nation in his brain; how,
in all that relates to the matter in hand, he has in him as faculty what is out of him in fact;
how between the man and the thing there occurs that subtile freemasonry of recognition which
we call the mind's intuitive glance; and how conflicting principles and statements, mixed and
mingling in fierce confusion and with deafening war-cries, fall into order and relation, and
move in the direction of one inexorable controlling idea, the moment they are grasped by an
intellect which is in the secret of their combination:--

  "Confusion hears his voice, and the wild uproar
  stills."

Mark, too, how, in the productions of his mind, the presence and pressure of his whole nature,
in each intellectual act, keeps his opinions on the level of his character, and stamps every
weighty paragraph with "Daniel Webster, his mark." The characteristic, of all his great speeches
is, that the statements, arguments, and images have what we should call a positive being of
their own,--stand out as plainly to the sight as a ledge of rocks or chain of hills,--and,
like the works of Nature herself, need no other justification of their right to exist than
the fact of their existence. We may detest their object, but we cannot deny their solidity
of organization. This power of giving a substantial body, an undeniable external shape and
form, to his thoughts and perceptions, so that the toiling mind does not so much seem to pass
from one sentence to another, unfolding its leading idea, as to make each sentence a solid
work in a Torres-Vedras line of fortifications,--this prodigious constructive faculty, wielded
with the strength of a huge Samson-like artificer in the material of mind, and welding together
the substances it might not be able to fuse, puzzled all opponents who understood it not, and
baffled the efforts of all who understood it well. He rarely took a position on any political
question, which did not draw down upon him a whole battalion of adversaries, with ingenious
array of argument and infinite noise of declamation; but after the smoke and dust and clamor
of the combat were over, the speech loomed up, perfect and whole, a permanent thing in history
or literature, while the loud thunders of opposition had too often died away into low mutterings,
audible only to the adventurous antiquary who gropes in the "still air" of stale "Congressional
Debates." The rhetoric of sentences however melodious, of aphorisms however pointed, of abstractions
however true, cannot stand in the storm of affairs against this true rhetoric, in which thought
is consubstantiated with things.

Now in men of this stamp, who have so organized knowledge into faculty that they have attained
the power of giving Thought the character of Fact, we notice no distinction between power of
intellect and power of will, but an indissoluble union and fusion of force and insight. Facts
and laws are so blended with their personal being, that we can hardly decide whether it is
thought that wills or will that thinks. Their actions display the intensest intelligence; their
thoughts come from them clothed in the thews and sinews of energetic volition. Their force,
being proportioned to their intelligence, never issues in that wild and anarchical impulse,
or that tough, obstinate, narrow wilfulness, which many take to be the characteristic of individualized
power. They may, in fact, exhibit no striking individual traits which stand impertinently out,
and yet from this very cause be all the more potent and influential individualities. Indeed,
in the highest efforts of ecstatic action, when the person is mightiest, and amazes us by the
giant leaps of his intuition, the mere peculiarities of his personality are unseen and unfelt.
This is the case with Homer, Shakspeare, and Goethe, in poetry,--with Plato and Bacon, in philosophy,--with
Newton, in science,--with Caesar, in war. Such men doubtless had peculiarities and caprices,
but they were "burnt and purged away" by the fire of their genius, when its action was intensest.
Then their whole natures were melted down into pure force and insight, and the impression they
leave upon the mind is the impression of marvellous force and weight and reach of thought.

If it be objected, that these high examples are fitted to provoke despair rather than stimulate
emulation, the answer is, that they contain, exemplify, and emphasize the principles, and flash
subtile hints of the processes, of all mental growth and production. How comes it that these
men's thoughts radiate from them as acts, endowed not only with an illuminating, but a penetrating
and animating power? The answer to this is a statement of the genesis, not merely of genius,
but of every form of intellectual manhood; for such thoughts do not leap, à la Minerva, full-grown
from the head, but are struck off in those moments when the whole nature of the thinker is
alive and aglow with an inspiration kindled long before in remote recesses of consciousness
from one spark of immortal fire, and unweariedly burning, burning, burning, until it lit up
the whole inert mass of surrounding mind in flame.

To show, indeed, how little there is of the extempore, the hap-hazard, the hit-or-miss, in
the character of creative thought, and how completely the gladdest inspiration is earned, let
us glance at the psychological history of one of those imperial ideas which measure the power,
test the quality, and convey the life, of the minds that conceive them. The progress of such
an idea is from film to form. It has its origin in an atmosphere of feeling; for the first
vital movement of the mind is emotional, and is expressed in a dim tendency, a feeble feeling
after the object, or the class of objects, related to the peculiar constitution and latent
affinities of its individual being. This tendency gradually condenses and deepens into a sentiment,
pervading the man with a love of those objects,--by a sweet compulsion ordering his energies
in their direction,--and by slow degrees investing them, through a process of imagination,
with the attribute of beauty, and, through a process of reason, investing the purpose with
which he pursues them with the attribute of intelligence. The object dilates as the mind assimilates
and the nature moves, so that every step in this advance from mere emotion to vivid insight
is a building up of the faculties which each onward movement evokes and exercises,--sentiment,
imagination, reason increasing their power and enlarging their scope with each impetus that
speeds them on to their bright and beckoning goal. Then, when the individual has reached his
full mental stature, and come in direct contact with the object, then, only then, does he "pluck
out the heart of its mystery" in one of those lightning-like acts of thought which we call
combination, invention, discovery.

There is no luck, no accident, in all this. Nature does not capriciously scatter her secrets
as golden gifts to lazy pets and luxurious darlings, but imposes tasks when she presents opportunities,
and uplifts him whom she would inform. The apple that she drops at the feet of Newton is but
a coy invitation to follow her to the stars.

Now this living process of developing manhood and building up mind, while the person is on
the trail of a definite object of intelligence, is in continual danger of being devitalized
into a formal process of mere acquisition, which, though it may make great memories of students,
will be sure to leave them little men. Their thoughts will be the attachés, not the offspring,
of their minds. They will have a bowing acquaintance with many truths, without being admitted
to the familiarity of embracing or shaking hands with one. If they have native stamina of animal
constitution, they may become men of passions and opinions, but they never will become men
of sentiments and ideas; they may know the truth as it is about a thing, and support it with
acrid and wrangling dogmatism, but they never will know the truth as it is in the thing, and
support it with faith and insight. And the moment they come into collision with a really live
man, they will find their souls inwardly wither, and their boasted acquisitions fall away,
before one glance of his irradiating intelligence and one stroke of his smiting will. If, on
the contrary, they are guided by good or great sentiments, which are the souls of good or great
ideas, these sentiments will be sure to organize all the capacity there is in them into positive
intellectual character; but let them once divorce love from their occupations in life, and
they will find that labor will degenerate into drudgery, and drudgery will weaken the power
to labor, and weakness, as a last resort, will intrench itself in pretence and deception. If
they are in the learned professions, they will become tricksters in law, quacks in medicine,
formalists in divinity, though regular practitioners in all; and clients will be cheated, and
patients will be poisoned, and parishioners will be--we dare not say what!--though all the
colleges in the universe had showered on them their diplomas. "To be weak is miserable": Milton
wrested that secret from the Devil himself!--but what shall we say of those whose weakness
has subsided from misery into complacency, and who feel all the moral might of their being
hourly rust and decay, with the most amiable indifference and lazy content with dissolution?

Now this weakness is a mental and moral sickness, pointing the way to mental and moral death.
It has its source in a violation of that law which makes the health of the mind depend on its
activity being directed to an object. When directed on itself, it becomes fitful and moody;
and moodiness generates morbidness, and morbidness misanthropy, and misanthropy self-contempt,
and self-contempt begins the work of self-dissolution. Why, every sensible man will despise
himself, if he concentrates his attention on that important personage! The joy and confidence
of activity come from its being fixed and fastened on things external to itself. Now activity
for an object, which is an activity that constantly increases the power of acting, and keeps
the mind glad, fresh, vigorous, and young, has three deadly enemies,--intellectual indolence,
intellectual conceit, and intellectual fear. We will say a few words on the operation of this
triad of malignants.

Montaigne relates, that, while once walking in the fields, he was accosted by a beggar of Herculean
frame, who solicited alms. "Are you not ashamed to beg?" said the philosopher, with a frown,--"you
who are so palpably able to work?" "Oh, Sir," was the sturdy knave's drawling rejoinder, "if
you only knew how lazy I am!" Herein is the whole philosophy of idleness; and we are afraid
that many a student of good natural capacity slips and slides from thought into reverie, and
from reverie into apathy, and from apathy into incurable indisposition to think, with as much
sweet unconsciousness of degradation as Montaigne's mendicant evinced; and at last hides from
himself the fact of his imbecility of action, somewhat as Sir James Herring accounted for the
fact that he could not rise early in the morning: he could, he said, make up his mind to it,
but could not make up his body.

"He who eats with the Devil," says the proverb, "has need of a long spoon"; and he who domesticates
this pleasant vice of indolence, and allows it to nestle near his will, has need of a long
head. Ordinary minds may well be watchful of its insidious approaches when great ones have
mourned over its enfeebling effects; and the subtle indolence that stole over the powers of
Mackintosh, and gradually impaired the productiveness even of Goethe, may well scare intellects
of less natural grasp and imaginations of less instinctive creativeness. Every step, indeed,
of the student's progress calls for energy and effort, and every step is beset by some soft
temptation to abandon the task of developing power for the delight of following impulse. The
appetites, for example, instead of being bitted, and bridled, and trained into passions, and
sent through the intellect to quicken, sharpen, and intensify its activity, are allowed to
take their way unmolested to their own objects of sense, and drag the mind down to their own
sensual level. Sentiment decays, the vision fades, faith in principles departs, the moment
that appetite rules. On the closing doors of that "sensual stye," as over the gate of Dante's
hell, be it written: "Let those who enter here leave hope behind."

But a more refined operation of this pestilent indolence is its way of infusing into the mind
the delusive belief that it can attain the objects of activity without its exercise. Under
this illusion, men expect to grow wise, as men who gamble in stocks expect to grow rich, by
chance, and not by work. They invest in mediocrity in the confident hope that it will go many
hundred per cent. above par; and so shocking has been the inflation of the intellectual currency
of late years, that this speculation of indolence sometimes partially succeeds. But a revulsion
comes,--and then brass has to make a break-neck descent to reach its proper level below gold.
There are others whom indolence deludes by some trash about "fits" of inspiration, for whose
Heaven-sent spasms they are humbly to wait. There is, it seems, a lucky thought somewhere in
the abyss of possibility, which is somehow, at some time, to step out of essence into substance,
and take up its abode in their capacious minds,--dutifully kept unoccupied in order that the
expected celestial visitor may not be crowded for room. Chance is to make them king, and chance
to crown them, without their stir! There are others still, who, while sloth is sapping the
primitive energy of their natures, expect to scale the fortresses of knowledge by leaps and
not by ladders, and who count on success in such perilous gymnastics, not by the discipline
of the athlete, but by the dissipation of the idler. Indolence, indeed, is never at a loss
for a smooth lie or delicious sophism to justify inaction, and, in our day, has rationalized
it into a philosophy of the mind, and idealized it into a school of poetry, and organized it
into a "hospital of incapables." It promises you the still ecstasy of a divine repose, while
it lures you surely down into the vacant dulness of inglorious sloth. It provides a primrose
path to stagnant pools, to an Arcadia of thistles, and a Paradise of mud.

But in a mind of any primitive power, intellectual indolence is sure to generate intellectual
conceit,--a little Jack Horner, that ensconces itself in lazy heads, and, while it dwarfs every
power to the level of its own littleness, keeps vociferating, "What a great man am I!" It is
the essential vice of this glib imp of the mind, even when it infests large intellects, that
it puts Nature in the possessive case,--labels all its inventions and discoveries "My truth,"--and
moves about the realms of art, science, and letters in a constant fear of having its pockets
picked. Think of a man's having vouchsafed to him one of those awful glimpses into the mysteries
of creation which should be received with a shudder of prayerful joy, and taking the gracious
boon with a smirk of all-satisfied conceit! One page in what Shakspeare calls "Nature's infinite
book of secrecy" flies a moment open to his eager gaze, and he hears the rustling of the myriad
leaves as they close and clasp, only to make his spirit more abject, his vanity more ravenous,
his hatred of rivals more rancorous and mean. That grand unselfish love of truth, and joy in
its discovery, by whomsoever made, which characterize the true seeker and seer of science and
creative art, alone can keep the mind alive and alert, alone can make the possession of truth
a means of elevating and purifying the man.

But if this conceit, in powerful natures, tends to belittle character, and eat into and consume
the very faculties whose successful exercise creates it, its slyly insinuated venom works swifter
and deadlier on youth and inexperience. The ordinary forms of conceit, it is true, cannot well
flourish in any assemblage of young men, whose plain interest it is to undeceive all self-deception
and quell every insurrection of individual vanity, and who soon understand the art of burning
the nonsense out of an offending brother by caustic ridicule and slow-roasting sarcasm. But
there is danger of mutual deception, springing from a common belief in a false, but attractive
principle of culture. The mischief of intellectual conceit in our day consists in its arresting
mental growth at the start by stuffing the mind with the husks of pretentious generalities,
which, while they impart no vital power and convey no real information, give seeming enlargement
to thought, and represent a seeming opulence of knowledge. The deluded student, who picks up
these ideas in masquerade at the rag-fairs and old-clothes' shops of philosophy, thinks he
has the key to all secrets and the solvent of all problems, when he really has no experimental
knowledge of anything, and dwindles all the more for every juiceless, unnutritious abstraction
he devours. Though famished for the lack of a morsel of the true mental food of facts and ideas,
he still swaggeringly despises all relative information in his ambition to clutch at absolute
truth, and accordingly goes directly to ultimates by the short cuts of cheap generalities.
Why, to be sure, should he, who can, Napoleon-like, march straight on to the interior capital,
submit, Marlborough-like, to the drudgery of besieging the frontier fortresses? Why should
he, who can throw a girdle of generalization round the universe in less than forty minutes,
stoop to master details? And this easy and sprightly amplitude of understanding, which consists
not in including, but in excluding all relative facts and principles, he calls comprehensiveness;
the mental decrepitude it occasions he dignifies with the appellation of repose; and, on the
strength of comprehensiveness and repose, is of course qualified to take his seat beside Shakspeare,
and chat cosily with Bacon, and wink knowingly at Goethe, and startle Leibnitz with a slap
on the shoulder,--the true Red-Republican sign of liberty in manners, equality in power, and
fraternity in ideas! These men, to be sure, have a way of saying things which he has not yet
caught; but then their wide-reaching thoughts are his as well as theirs. Imitating the condescension
of some contemporary philosophers of the Infinite, he graciously accepts Christianity and patronizes
the idea of Deity, though he gives you to understand that he could easily pitch a generalization
outside of both. And thus, mistaking his slab-sidedness for many-sidedness, and forgetting
that there is no insight without force to back it,--bedizened in conceit and magnificent in
littleness,--he is thrown on society, walking in a vain show of knowledge, and doomed to be
upset and trampled on by the first brawny concrete Fact he stumbles against. A true method
of culture makes drudgery beautiful by presenting a vision of the object to which it leads;--beware
of the conceit that dispenses with it! How much better it is to delve for a little solid knowledge,
and be sure of that, than to be a proper target for such a sarcasm as a great statesman once
shot at a glib advocate, who was saying nothing with great fluency and at great length! "Who,"
he asked, "is this self-sufficient, all-sufficient, insufficient man?"

Idleness and Conceit, however, are not more opposed to that out-springing, reverential activity
which makes the person forget himself in devotion to his objects, than Fear. A bold heart in
a sound head,--that is the condition of energetic thinking, of the thought that thinks round
things and into things and through things; but fear freezes activity at its inmost fountains.
"There is nothing," says Montaigne, "that I fear so much as fear." Indeed, an educated man,
who creeps along with an apologetic air, cringing to this name and ducking to that opinion,
and hoping that it is not too presumptuous in him to beg the right to exist,--why, it is a
spectacle piteous to gods and hateful to men! Yet think of the many knots of monitory truisms
in which activity is likely to be caught and entangled at the outset,--knots which a brave
purpose will not waste time to untie, but instantly cuts. First, there is the nonsense of students
killing themselves by over-study,--some few instances of which, not traceable to over-eating,
have shielded the short-comings of a million idlers. Next, there is the fear that the intellect
may be developed at the expense of the moral nature,--one of those truths in the abstract which
are made to do the office of lies in the application, and which are calculated not so much
to make good men as goodies,--persons rejoicing in an equal mediocrity of morals and mind,
and pertinent examples of the necessity of personal force to convert moral maxims into moral
might. The truth would seem to be, that half the crimes and sufferings which history records
and observation furnishes are directly traceable to want of thought rather than to bad intention;
and in regard to the other half, which may be referred to the remorseless selfishness of unsanctified
intelligence, has that selfishness ever had more valuable allies and tools than the mental
torpor that cannot think and the conscientious stupidity that will not? Moral laws, indeed,
are intellectual facts, to be investigated as well as obeyed; and it is not a blind or blear-eyed
conscience, but a conscience blended with intelligence and consolidated with character, that
can both see and act.

But curtly dismissing the fallacy, that the moral and spiritual faculties are likely to find
a sound basis in a cowed and craven reason, we come to a form of fear that practically paralyzes
independent thought more than any other, while it is incompatible with manliness and self-respect.
This fear is compounded of self-distrust and that mode of vanity which cowers beneath the invective
of men whose applause it neither courts nor values. If you examine critically the two raging
parties of conservatism and radicalism, you will find that a goodly number of their partisans
are men who have not chosen their position, but have been bullied into it,--men who see clearly
enough that both parties are based on principles almost equally true in themselves, almost
equally false by being detached from their mutual relations. But then each party keeps its
professors of intimidation and stainers of character, whose business it is to deprive men of
the luxury of large thinking, and to drive all neutrals into their respective ranks. The missiles
hurled from one side are disorganizer, infidel, disunionist, despiser of law, and other trumpery
of that sort; from the other side, the no less effective ones of murderer, dumb dog, traitor
to humanity, and other trumpery of that sort; and the young and sensitive student finds it
difficult to keep the poise of his nature amid the cross-fire of this logic of fury and rhetoric
of execration, and too often ends in joining one party from fear, or the other from the fear
of being thought afraid. The probability is, that the least danger to his mental independence
will proceed from any apprehension he may entertain of what are irreverently styled the "old
fogies"; for if Young America goes on at its present headlong rate, there is little doubt that
the old fogy will have to descend from his eminence of place, become an object of pathos rather
than terror, and be compelled to make the inquiring appeal to his brisk hunters, so often made
to himself in vain, "Am I not a man and a brother?" But with whatever association, political
or moral, the thinker may connect himself, let him go in,--and not be dragged in or scared
in. He certainly can do no good to himself, his country, or his race, by being the slave and
echo of the heads of a clique. Besides, as most organizations are constituted on the principles
of a sort of literary socialism, and each member lives and trades on a common capital of phrases,
there is danger that these phrases may decline from signs into substitutes of thought, and
both intellect and character evaporate in words. Thus, a man may be a Union man and a National
man, or an Anti-Slavery man and a Temperance man and a Woman's-Rights' man, and still be very
little of a man. There is, indeed, no more ludicrous sight than to see Mediocrity, perched
on one of these resounding adjectives, strut and bluster, and give itself braggadocio airs,
and dictate to all quiet men its maxims of patriotism or morality, and all the while be but
a living illustration through what grandeurs of opinion essential meanness and poverty of soul
will peer and peep and be disclosed. To be a statesman or reformer requires a courage that
dares defy dictation from any quarter, and a mind which has come in direct contact with the
great inspiring ideas of country and humanity. All the rest is spite, and spleen; and cant,
and conceit, and words.

It is plain, of course, that every man of large and living thought will naturally sympathize
with those great social movements, informing and reforming, which are the glory of the age;
but it must always be remembered that the grand and generous sentiments that underlie those
movements demand in their fervid disciple a corresponding grandeur and generosity of soul.
There is no reason why his philanthropy should be malignant because other men's conservatism
may be stupid; and the vulgar insensibility to the rights of the oppressed, and the vulgar
scorn of the claims of the wretched, which men calling themselves respectable and educated
may oppose to his own warmer feelings and nobler principles, should be met, not with that invective
which may be as vulgar as the narrowness it denounces, nor always with that indignation which
is righteous as well as wrathful, but with that awful contempt with which Magnanimity shames
meanness, simply by the irony of her lofty example and the sarcasm of her terrible silence.

In these remarks, which we trust our readers have at least been kind enough to consider worthy
of an effort of patience, we have attempted to connect all genuine intellectual success with
manliness of character; have endeavored to show that force of individual being is its primary
condition; that this force is augmented and enriched, or weakened and impoverished, according
as it is or is not directed to appropriate objects; that indolence, conceit, and fear present
continual checks to this going out of the mind into glad and invigorating communion with facts
and laws; and that as a man is not a mere bundle of faculties, but a vital person, whose unity
pervades, vivifies, and creates all the varieties of his manifestation, the same vices which
enfeeble and deprave character tend to enfeeble and deprave intellect. But perhaps we have
not sufficiently indicated a diseased state of consciousness, from which most intellectual
men have suffered, many have died, and all should be warned,--the disease, namely, of mental
disgust, the sign and the result of mental debility. Mental disgust "sicklies o'er" all the
objects of thought, extinguishes faith in exertion, communicates a dull wretchedness to indolence
in the very process by which it makes activity impossible, and drags into its own slough of
despond, and discolors with its own morbid reveries, the objects which it should ardently seek
and genially assimilate. It sees things neither as they are, nor as they are glorified and
transfigured by hope and health and faith; but, in the apathy of that idling introspection
which betrays a genius for misery, it pronounces effort to be vanity, and despairingly dismisses
knowledge as delusion. "Despair," says Donne, "is the damp of hell; rejoicing is the serenity
of heaven."

Now contrast this mental disgust, which proceeds from mental debility, with the sunny and soul-lifting
exhilaration radiated from mental vigor,--a vigor which comes from the mind's secret consciousness
that it is in contact with moral and spiritual verities, and is partaking of the rapture of
their immortal life. A spirit earnest, hopeful, energetic, inquisitive, making its mistakes
minister to wisdom, and converting the obstacles it vanquishes into power,--a spirit inspired
by a love of the excellency and beauty of knowledge, which will not let it sleep,--such a spirit
soon learns that the soul of joy is hid in the austere form of Duty, and that the intellect
becomes brighter, keener, clearer, more buoyant, and more efficient, as it feels the freshening
vigor infused by her monitions and menaces, and the celestial calm imparted by her soul-satisfying
smile. In all the professions and occupations over which Intellect holds dominion, the student
will find that there is no grace of character without its corresponding grace of mind. He will
find that virtue is an aid to insight; that good and sweet affections will bear a harvest of
pure and high thoughts; that patience will make the intellect persistent in plans which benevolence
will make beneficent in results; that the austerities of conscience will dictate precision
to statements and exactness to arguments; that the same moral sentiments and moral power which
regulate the conduct of life will illumine the path and stimulate the purpose of those daring
spirits eager to add to the discoveries of truth and the creations of art. And he will also
find that this purifying interaction of spiritual and mental forces will give the mind an abiding
foundation of joy for its starts of rapture and flights of ecstasy;--a joy, in whose light
and warmth languor and discontent and depression and despair will be charmed away;--a joy,
which will make the mind large, generous, hopeful, aspiring, in order to make life beautiful
and sweet;--a joy, in the words of an old divine, "which will put on a more glorious garment
above, and be joy superinvested in glory!"

LOO LOO.

A FEW SCENES FROM A TRUE HISTORY.

SCENE I.

Alfred Noble had grown up to manhood among the rocks and hills of a New England village. A
year spent in Mobile, employed in the duties of a clerk, had not accustomed him to the dull
routine of commercial life. He longed for the sound of brooks and the fresh air of the hills.
It was, therefore, with great pleasure that he received from his employer a message to be conveyed
to a gentleman who lived in the pleasantest suburb of the city. It was one of those bright
autumnal days when the earth seems to rejoice consciously in the light that gives her beauty.

Leaving behind him the business quarter of the town, he passed through pleasant streets bordered
with trees, and almost immediately found himself amid scenes clothed with all the freshness
of the country. Handsome mansions here and there dotted the landscape, with pretty little parks,
enclosing orange-trees and magnolias, surrounded with hedges of holly, in whose foliage numerous
little foraging birds were busy in the sunshine. The young man looked at these dwellings with
an exile's longing at his heart. He imagined groups of parents and children, brothers and sisters,
under those sheltering roofs, all strangers to him, an orphan, alone in the world. The pensiveness
of his mood gradually gave place to more cheerful thoughts. Visions of prosperous business
and a happy home rose before him, as he walked briskly toward the hills south of the city.
The intervals between the houses increased in length, and he soon found himself in a little
forest of pines. Emerging from this, he came suddenly in sight of an elegant white villa, with
colonnaded portico and spacious verandas. He approached it by a path through a grove, the termination
of which had grown into the semblance of a Gothic arch, by the interlacing of two trees, one
with glossy evergreen leaves, the other yellow with the tints of autumn. Vines had clambered
to the top, and hung in light festoons from the branches. The foliage, fluttering in a gentle
breeze, caused successive ripples of sun-flecks, which chased each other over trunks and boughs,
and joined in wayward dance with the shadows on the ground.

Arrested by this unusual combination of light and shade, color and form, the young man stood
still for a moment to gaze upon it. He was thinking to himself that nothing could add to the
perfection of its beauty, when suddenly there came dancing under the arch a figure that seemed
like the fairy of those woods, a spirit of the mosses and the vines. She was a child, apparently
five or six years old, with large brown eyes, and a profusion of dark hair. Her gypsy hat,
ornamented with scarlet ribbons and a garland of red holly-berries, had fallen back on her
shoulders, and her cheeks were flushed with exercise. A pretty little white dog was with her,
leaping up eagerly for a cluster of holly-berries which she playfully shook above his head.
She whirled swiftly round and round the frisking animal, her long red ribbons flying on the
breeze, and then she paused, all aglow, swaying herself back and forth, like a flower on its
stem. A flock of doves, as if attracted toward her, came swooping down from the sky, revolving
in graceful curves above her head, their white breasts glistening in the sunshine. The aërial
movements of the child were so full of life and joy, she was so in harmony with the golden
day, the waving vines, and the circling doves, that the whole scene seemed like an allegro
movement in music, and she a charming little melody floating through it all.

Alfred stood like one enchanted. He feared to speak or move, lest the fairy should vanish from
mortal presence. So the child and the dog, equally unconscious of a witness, continued their
graceful gambols for several minutes. An older man might have inwardly moralized on the folly
of the animal, aping humanity in thus earnestly striving after what would yield no nourishment
when obtained. But Alfred was too young and too happy to moralize. The present moment was all-sufficient
for him, and stood still there in its fulness, unconnected with past or future. This might
have lasted long, had not the child been attracted by the dove-shadows, and, looking up to
watch the flight of the birds, her eyes encountered the young man. A whole heart full of sunshine
was in the smile with which he greeted her. But, with a startled look, she turned quickly and
ran away; and the dog, still full of frolic, went bounding by her side. As Alfred tried to
pursue them, a bough knocked off his hat. Without stopping to regain it, he sprang over a holly-hedge,
and came in view of the veranda of a house, just in time to see the fairy and her dog disappear
behind a trellis covered with the evergreen foliage of the Cherokee rose. Conscious of the
impropriety of pursuing her farther, he paused to take breath. As he passed his hand through
his hair, tossed into masses by running against the wind, he heard a voice from the veranda
exclaim,--

"Whither so fast, Loo Loo? Come here, Loo Loo!"

Glancing upward, he saw a patrician-looking gentleman, in a handsome morning-gown, of Oriental
fashion, and slippers richly embroidered. He was reclining on a lounge, with wreaths of smoke
floating before him; but seeing the stranger, he rose, and taking the amber-tubed cigar from
his mouth, he said, half laughing,--

"You seem to be in hot haste, Sir. Pray, what have you been hunting?"

Alfred also laughed, as he replied,--

"I have been chasing a charming little girl, who would not be caught. Perhaps she was your
daughter, Sir?"

"She is my daughter," rejoined the gentleman. "A pretty little witch, is she not? Will you
walk in, Sir?"

Alfred thanked him, and said that he was in search of a Mr. Duncan, whose residence was in
that neighborhood.

"I am Mr. Duncan," replied the patrician. "Jack, go and fetch the gentleman's hat, and bring
cigars."

A negro obeyed his orders, and, after smoking awhile on the veranda, the two gentlemen walked
round the grounds.

Once when they approached the house, they heard the pattering of little feet, and Mr. Duncan
called out, with tones of fondness,--

"Come here, Loo Loo! Come, darling, and see the gentleman who has been running after you!"

But the shy little fairy ran all the faster, and Alfred saw nothing but the long red ribbons
of her gypsy hat, as they floated behind her on the wind.

Declining a polite invitation to dine, he walked back to the city. The impression on his mind
had been so vivid, that, as he walked, there rose ever before him a vision of that graceful
arch with waving vines, the undulating flight of the silver-breasted doves, and the airy motions
of that beautiful child. How would his interest in the scene have deepened, could some sibyl
have foretold to him how closely the Fates had interwoven the destinies of himself and that
lovely little one!

When he entered the counting-room, he found his employer in close conversation with Mr. Grossman,
a wealthy cotton-broker. This man was but little more than thirty years of age, but the predominance
of animal propensities was stamped upon his countenance with more distinctness than is usual
with sensualists of twice his age. The oil of a thousand hams seemed oozing through his pimpled
cheeks; his small gray eyes were set in his head like the eyes of a pig; his mouth had the
expression of a satyr; and his nose seemed perpetually sniffing the savory prophecy of food.
When the clerk had delivered his message, he slapped him familiarly on the shoulder, and said,--

"So you've been out to Duncan's, have you? Pretty nest there at Pine Grove, and they say he's
got a rare bird in it; but he keeps her so close, that I could never catch sight of her. Perhaps
you got a peep, eh?"

"I saw a very beautiful child of Mr. Duncan's," replied Alfred, "but I did not see his wife."

"That's very likely," rejoined Grossman; "because he never had any wife."

"He said the little girl was his daughter, and I naturally inferred that he had a wife," replied
Alfred.

"That don't follow of course, my gosling," said the cotton-broker. "You're green, young man!
You're green! I swear, I'd give a good deal to get sight of Duncan's wench. She must be devilish
handsome, or he wouldn't keep her so close."

Alfred Noble had always felt an instinctive antipathy to this man, who was often letting fall
some remark that jarred harshly with his romantic ideas of women,--something that seemed to
insult the memories of a beloved mother and sister gone to the spirit-world. But he had never
liked him less than at this moment; for the sly wink of his eye, and the expressive leer that
accompanied his coarse words, were very disagreeable things to be associated with that charming
vision of the circling doves and the innocent child.

SCENE II.

Time passed away, and with it the average share of changing events. Alfred Noble became junior
partner in the counting-house he had entered as clerk, and not long afterward the elder partner
died. Left thus to rely upon his own energy and enterprise, the young man gradually extended
his business, and seemed in a fair way to realize his favorite dream of making a fortune and
returning to the North to marry. The subject of Slavery was then seldom discussed. North and
South seemed to have entered into a tacit agreement to ignore the topic completely. Alfred's
experience was like that of most New Englanders in his situation. He was at first annoyed and
pained by many of the peculiarities of Southern society, and then became gradually accustomed
to them. But his natural sense of justice was very strong; and this, added to the influence
of early education, and strengthened by scenes of petty despotism which he was frequently compelled
to witness, led him to resolve that he would never hold a slave. The colored people in his
employ considered him their friend, because he was always kind and generous to them. He supposed
that comprised the whole of duty, and further than that he never reflected upon the subject.

The pretty little picture at Pine Grove, which had made so lively an impression on his imagination,
faded the more rapidly, because unconnected with his affections. But a shadowy semblance of
it always flitted through his memory, whenever he saw a beautiful child, or observed any unusual
combination of trees and vines.

Four years after his interview with Mr. Duncan, business called him to the interior of the
State, and for the sake of healthy exercise he chose to make the journey on horseback. His
route lay mostly through a monotonous region of sandy plain, covered with pines, here and there
varied by patches of cleared land, in which numerous dead trees were prostrate, or standing
leafless, waiting their time to fall. Most of the dwellings were log-houses, but now and then
the white villa of some wealthy planter might be seen gleaming through the evergreens. Sometimes
the sandy soil was intersected by veins of swamp, through which muddy water oozed sluggishly,
among bushes and dead logs. In these damp places flourished dark cypresses and holly-trees,
draped with gray Spanish moss, twisted around the boughs, and hanging from them like gigantic
cobwebs. Now and then, the sombre scene was lighted up with a bit of brilliant color, when
a scarlet grosbeak flitted from branch to branch, or a red-headed woodpecker hammered at the
trunk of some old tree, to find where the insects had intrenched themselves. But nothing pleased
the eye of the traveller so much as the holly-trees, with their glossy evergreen foliage, red
berries, and tufts of verdant mistletoe. He had been riding all day, when, late in the afternoon,
an uncommonly beautiful holly appeared to terminate the road at the bend where it stood. Its
boughs were woven in with a cypress on the other side, by long tangled fringes of Spanish moss.
The setting sun shone brightly aslant the mingled foliage, and lighted up the red berries,
which glimmered through the thin drapery of moss, like the coral ornaments of a handsome brunette
seen through her veil of embroidered lace. It was unlike the woodland picture he had seen at
Pine Grove, but it recalled it to his memory more freshly than he had seen it for a long time.
He watched the peculiar effects of sunlight, changing as he approached the tree, and the desire
grew strong within him to have the fairy-like child and the frolicsome dog make their appearance
beneath that swinging canopy of illuminated moss. If his nerves had been in such a state that
forms in the mind could have taken outward shape, he would have realized the vision so distinctly
painted on his imagination. But he was well and strong; therefore he saw nothing but a blue
heron flapping away among the cypresses, and a flock of turkey-buzzards soaring high above
the trees, with easy and graceful flight. His thoughts, however, continued busy with the picture
that had been so vividly recalled. He recollected having heard, some time before, of Mr. Duncan's
death, and he queried within himself what had become of that beautiful child.

Musing thus, he rode under the fantastic festoons he had been admiring, and saw at his right
a long gentle descent, where a small stream of water glided downward over mossy stones. Trees
on either side interlaced their boughs over it, and formed a vista, cool, dark, and solemn
as the aisle of some old Gothic church. A figure moving upward, by the side of the little brook,
attracted his attention, and he checked his horse to inquire whether the people at the nearest
house would entertain a stranger for the night. When the figure approached nearer, he saw that
it was a slender, barefooted girl, carrying a pail of water. As she emerged from the dim aisle
of trees, a gleam of the setting sun shone across her face for an instant, and imparted a luminous
glory to her large brown eyes. Shading them with her hand, she paused timidly before the stranger,
and answered his inquiries. The modulation of her tones suggested a degree of refinement which
he had not expected to meet in that lonely region. He gazed at her so intently, that her eyes
sought the ground, and their long, dark fringes rested on blushing cheeks. What was it those
eyes recalled? They tantalized and eluded his memory. "My good girl, tell me what is your name,"
he said.

"Louisa," she replied, bashfully, and added, "I will show you the way to the house."

"Let me carry the water for you," said the kind-hearted traveller. He dismounted for the purpose,
but she resisted his importunities, saying that she would be very angry with her.

"And who is she?" he asked. "Is she your mother?"

"Oh, no, indeed!" was the hasty reply. "I am--I--I live there."

The disclaimer was sudden and earnest, as if the question struck on a wounded nerve. Her eyes
swam with tears, and the remainder of her answer was sad and reluctant in its tones. The child
was so delicately formed, so shy and sensitive, so very beautiful, that she fascinated him
strongly. He led his horse into the lane she had entered, and as he walked by her side he continued
to observe her with the most lively interest. Her motions were listless and languid, but flexile
as a willow. They puzzled him, as her eyes had done; for they seemed to remind him of something
he had seen in a half-forgotten dream.

They soon came in sight of the house, which was built of logs, but larger than most houses
of that description; and two or three huts in the rear indicated that the owner possessed slaves.
An open porch in front was shaded by the projecting roof, and there two dingy, black-nosed
dogs were growling and tousling each other. Pigs were rooting the ground, and among them rolled
a black baby, enveloped in a bundle of dirty rags. The traveller waited while Louisa went into
the house to inquire whether entertainment could be furnished for himself and his horse. It
was some time before the proprietor of the establishment made his appearance. At last he came
slowly sauntering round the end of the house, his hat tipped on one side, with a rowdyish air.
He was accompanied by a large dog, which rushed in among the pigs, biting their ears, and making
them race about, squealing piteously. Then he seized hold of the bundle of rags containing
the black baby, and began to drag it over the ground, to the no small astonishment of the baby,
who added his screech to the charivari of the pigs. With loud shouts of laughter, Mr. Jackson
cheered on the rough animal, and was so much entertained by the scene, that he seemed to have
forgotten the traveller entirely. When at last his eye rested upon him, he merely exclaimed,
"That's a hell of a dog!" and began to call, "Staboy!" again. The negro woman came and snatched
up her babe, casting a furtive glance at her master, as she did so, and making her escape as
quickly as possible. Towzer, being engaged with the pigs at that moment, allowed her to depart
unmolested; and soon came back to his master, wagging his tail, and looking up, as if expecting
praise for his performances.

The traveller availed himself of this season of quiet to renew his inquiries.

"Well," said Mr. Jackson, "I reckon we can accommodate ye. Whar ar ye from, stranger?"

Mr. Noble having stated "whar" he was from, was required to tell "whar" he was going, whether
he owned that "bit of horse-flesh," and whether he wanted to sell him. Having answered all
these interrogatories in a satisfactory manner, he was ushered into the house.

The interior was rude and slovenly, like the exterior. The doors were opened by wooden latches
with leather strings, and sagged so much on their wooden hinges, that they were usually left
open to avoid the difficulty of shutting them. Guns and fishing-tackle were on the walls, and
the seats were wooden benches or leather-bottomed chairs. A tall, lank woman, with red hair,
and a severe aspect, was busy mending a garment. When asked if the traveller could be provided
with supper, she curtly replied that she "reckoned so"; and, without further parlance, or salute,
went out to give orders. Immediately afterward, her shrill voice was heard calling out, "You
gal! put the fixens on the table."

The "gal," who obeyed the summons, proved to be the sylph-like child that had guided the traveller
to the house. To the expression of listlessness and desolation which he had previously noticed,
there was now added a look of bewilderment and fear. He thought she might, perhaps, be a step-daughter
of Mrs. Jackson; but how could so coarse a man as his host be the father of such gentleness
and grace?

While supper was being prepared, Mr. Jackson entered into conversation with his guest about
the usual topics in that region,--the prices of cotton and "niggers." He frankly laid open
his own history and prospects, stating that he was "fetched up" in Western Tennessee, where
he owned but two "niggers." A rich uncle had died in Alabama, and he had come in for a portion
of his wild land and "niggers"; so he concluded to move South and take possession. Mr. Noble
courteously sustained his share of the conversation; but his eyes involuntarily followed the
interesting child, as she passed in and out to arrange the supper-table.

"You seem to fancy Leewizzy," said Mr. Jackson, shaking the ashes from his pipe.

"I have never seen a handsomer child," replied Mr. Noble. "Is she your daughter?"

"No, Sir; she's my nigger," was the brief response.

The young girl reëntered the room at that moment, and the statement seemed so incredible, that
the traveller eyed her with scrutinizing glance, striving in vain to find some trace of colored
ancestry.

"Come here, Leewizzy," said her master. "What d'ye keep yer eyes on the ground for? You 'a'n't
got no occasion to be ashamed o' yer eyes. Hold up yer head, now, and look the gentleman in
the face."

She tried to obey, but native timidity overcame the habit of submission, and, after one shy
glance at the stranger, her eyelids lowered, and their long, dark fringes rested on blushing
cheeks.

"I reckon ye don't often see a poottier piece o' flesh," said Mr. Jackson.

While he was speaking, his wife had come in from the kitchen, followed by a black woman with
a dish of sweet potatoes and some hot corn-cakes. She made her presence manifest by giving
"Leewizzy" a violent push, with the exclamation, "What ar ye standing thar for, yer lazy wench?
Go and help Dinah bring in the fixens." Then turning to her husband, she said, "You'll make
a fool o' that ar gal. It's high time she was sold. She's no account here."

Mr. Jackson gave a knowing wink at his guest, and remarked, "Women-folks are ginerally glad
enough to have niggers to wait on 'em; but ever sence that gal come into the house, my old
woman's been in a desperate hurry to have me sell her. But such an article don't lose nothing
by waiting awhile. I've some thoughts of taking a tramp to Texas one o' these days; and I reckon
a prime fancy article, like that ar, would bring a fust-rate price in New Orleans."

The subject of his discourse was listening to what he said; and partly from tremor at the import
of his words, and partly from fear that she should not place the dish of bacon and eggs to
please her mistress, she tipped it in setting it down, so that some of the fat was spilled
upon the table-cloth. Mrs. Jackson seized her and slapped her hard, several times, on both
sides of her head. The frightened child tried to escape, as soon as she was released from her
grasp, but, being ordered to remain and wait upon table, she stood behind her mistress, carefully
suppressing her sobs, though unable to keep back the tears that trickled down her cheeks. The
traveller was hungry; but this sight was a damper upon his appetite. He was indignant at seeing
such a timid young creature so roughly handled; but he dared not give utterance to his emotions,
for fear of increasing the persecution to which she was subjected. Afterward, when his host
and hostess were absent from the room, and Louisa was clearing the table, impelled by a feeling
of pity, which he could not repress, he laid his hand gently upon her head, and said, "Poor child!"

It was a simple phrase; but his kindly tones produced a mighty effect on that suffering little
soul. Her pent-up affections rushed forth like a flood when the gates are opened. She threw
herself into his arms, nestled her head upon his breast, and sobbed out, "Oh, I have nobody
to love me now!" This outburst of feeling was so unexpected, that the young man felt embarrassed,
and knew not what to do. His aversion to disagreeable scenes amounted to a weakness; and he
knew, moreover, that, if his hostess should become aware of his sympathy, her victim would
fare all the worse for it. Still, it was not in his nature to repel the affection that yearned
toward him with so overwhelming an impulse. He placed his hand tenderly on her head, and said,
in a soothing voice, "Be quiet now, my little girl. I hear somebody coming; and you know your
mistress expects you to clear the table."

Mrs. Jackson was in fact approaching, and Louisa hastily resumed her duties.

Had Mr. Noble been guilty of some culpable action, he could not have felt more desirous to
escape the observation of his hostess. As soon as she entered, he took up his hat hastily,
and went out to ascertain whether his horse had been duly cared for.

He saw Louisa no more that night. But as he lay awake, looking at a star that peeped in upon
him through an opening in the log wall, he thought of her beautiful eyes, when the sun shone
upon them, as she emerged from the shadows. He wished that his mother and sister were living,
that they might adopt the attractive child. Then he remembered that she was a slave, reserved
for the New Orleans market, and that it was not likely his good mother could obtain her, if
she were alive and willing to undertake the charge. Sighing, as he had often done, to think
how many painful things there were which he had no power to remedy, he fell asleep and saw
a very small girl dancing with a pail of water, while a flock of white doves were wheeling
round her. The two pictures had mingled on the floating cloud-canvas of dream-land.

He had paid for his entertainment before going to bed, and had signified his intention to resume
his journey as soon as light dawned. All was silent in the house when he went forth; and out
of doors nothing was stirring but a dog that roused himself to bark after him, and chanticleer
perched on a stump to crow. He was, therefore, surprised to find Louisa at the crib where his
horse was feeding. Springing toward him, she exclaimed,--

"Oh, you have come! Do buy me, Sir! I will be so good! I will do everything you tell me! Oh,
I am so unhappy! Do buy me, Sir!"

He patted her on the head, and looked down compassionately into the swimming eyes that were
fixed so imploringly upon his.

"Buy you, my poor child?" he replied. "I have no house,--I have nothing for you to do."

"My mother showed me how to sew some, and how to do some embroidery," she said, coaxingly.
"I will learn to do it better, and I can earn enough to buy something to eat. Oh, do buy me,
Sir! Do take me with you!"

"I cannot do that," he replied; "for I must go another day's journey before I return to Mobile."

"Do you live in Mobile?" she exclaimed, eagerly. "My father lived in Mobile. Once I tried to
run away there, but they set the dogs after me. Oh, do carry me back to Mobile!"

"What is your name?" said he; "and in what part of the city did you live?"

"My name is Louisa Duncan; and my father lived at Pine Grove. It was such a beautiful place!
and I was so happy there! Will you take me back to Mobile? Will you?"

Evading the question, he said,--

"Your name is Louisa, but your father called you Loo Loo, didn't he?"

That pet name brought forth a passionate outburst of tears. Her voice choked, and choked again,
as she sobbed out,--

"Nobody has ever called me Loo Loo since my father died."

He soothed her with gentle words, and she, looking up earnestly, as if stirred by a sudden
thought, exclaimed,--

"How did you know my father called me Loo Loo?"

He smiled as he answered, "Then you don't remember a young man who ran after you one day, when
you were playing with a little white dog at Pine Grove? and how your father called to you,
'Come here, Loo Loo, and see the gentleman'?"

"I don't remember it," she replied; "but I remember how my father used to laugh at me about
it, long afterward. He said I was very young to have gentlemen running after me."

"I am that gentleman," he said. "When I first looked at you, I thought I had seen you before;
and now I see plainly that you are Loo Loo."

That name was associated with so many tender memories, that she seemed to hear her father's
voice once more. She nestled close to her new friend, and repeated, in most persuasive tones,
"You will buy me? Won't you?"

"And your mother? What has become of her?" he asked.

"She died of yellow fever, two days before my father. I am all alone. Nobody cares for me.
You will buy me,--won't you?"

"But tell me how you came here, my poor child," he said.

She answered, "I don't know. After my father died, a great many folks came to the house, and
they sold everything. They said my father was uncle to Mr. Jackson, and that I belonged to
him. But Mrs. Jackson won't let me call Mr. Duncan my father. She says, if she ever hears of
my calling him so again, she'll whip me. Do let me be your daughter! You will buy me,--won't you?"

Overcome by her entreaties, and by the pleading expression of those beautiful eyes, he said,
"Well, little teaser, I will see whether Mr. Jackson will sell you to me. If he will, I will
send for you before long."

"Oh, don't send for me!" she exclaimed, moving her hands up and down with nervous rapidity.
"Come yourself, and come soon. They'll carry me to New Orleans, if you don't come for me."

"Well, well, child, be quiet. If I can buy you, I will come for you myself. Meanwhile, be a
good girl. I won't forget you."

He stooped down, and sealed the promise with a kiss on her forehead. As he raised his head,
he became aware that Bill, the horse-boy, was peeping in at the door, with a broad grin upon
his black face. He understood the meaning of that grin, and it seemed like an ugly imp driving
away a troop of fairies. He was about to speak angrily, but checked himself with the reflection,
"They will all think so. Black or white, they will all think so. But what can I do? I must
save this child from the fate that awaits her." To Bill he merely said that he wished to see
Mr. Jackson on business, and had, therefore, changed his mind about starting before breakfast.

The bargain was not soon completed; for Mr. Jackson had formed large ideas concerning the price
"Leewizzy" would bring in the market; and Bill had told the story of what he witnessed at the
crib, with sundry jocose additions, which elicited peals of laughter from his master. But the
orphan had won the young man's heart by the childlike confidence she had manifested toward
him, and conscience would not allow him to break the solemn promise he had given her. After
a protracted conference, he agreed to pay eight hundred dollars, and to come for Louisa the
next week.

The appearance of the sun, after a long, cold storm, never made a greater change than the announcement
of this arrangement produced in the countenance and manners of that desolate child. The expression
of fear vanished, and listlessness gave place to a springing elasticity of motion. Mr. Noble
could ill afford to spare so large a sum for the luxury of benevolence, and he was well aware
that the office of protector, which he had taken upon himself, must necessarily prove expensive.
But when he witnessed her radiant happiness, he could not regret that he had obeyed the generous
impulse of his heart. Now, for the first time, she was completely identified with the vision
of that fairy child who had so captivated his fancy four years before. He never forgot the
tones of her voice, and the expression of her eyes, when she kissed his hand at parting, and
said, "I thank you, Sir, for buying me."

SCENE III.

In a world like this, it is much easier to plan generous enterprises than to carry them into
effect. After Mr. Noble had purchased the child, he knew not how to provide a suitable home
for her. At first, he placed her with his colored washerwoman. But if she remained in that
situation, though her bodily wants would be well cared for, she must necessarily lose much
of the refinement infused into her being by that early environment of elegance, and that atmosphere
of love. He did not enter into any analysis of his motives in wishing her to be so far educated
as to be a pleasant companion for himself. The only question he asked himself was, How he would
like to have his sister treated, if she had been placed in such unhappy circumstances. He knew
very well what construction would be put upon his proceedings, in a society where handsome
girls of such parentage were marketable; and he had so long tacitly acquiesced in the customs
around him, that he might easily have viewed her in that light himself, had she not become
invested with a tender and sacred interest from the circumstances in which he had first seen
her, and the innocent, confiding manner in which she had implored him to supply the place of
her father. She was always presented to his imagination as Mr. Duncan's beloved daughter, never
as Mr. Jackson's slave. He said to himself, "May God bless me according to my dealings with
this orphan! May I never prosper, if I take advantage of her friendless situation!"

As for his protégée, she was too ignorant of the world to be disturbed by any such thoughts.
"May I call you Papa, as I used to call my father?" said she.

For some reason, undefined to himself, the title was unpleasant to him. It did not seem as
if his sixteen years of seniority need place so wide a distance between them. "No," he replied,
"you shall be my sister." And thenceforth she called him Brother Alfred, and he called her Loo Loo.

His curiosity was naturally excited to learn all he could of her history; and it was not long
before he ascertained that her mother was a superbly handsome quadroon, from New Orleans, the
daughter of a French merchant, who had given her many advantages of education, but from carelessness
had left her to follow the condition of her mother, who was a slave. Mr. Duncan fell in love
with her, bought her, and remained strongly attached to her until the day of her death. It
had always been his intention to manumit her, but, from inveterate habits of procrastination,
he deferred it, till the fatal fever attacked them both; and so his child also was left to
"follow the condition of her mother." Having neglected to make a will, his property was divided
among the sons of sisters married at a distance from him, and thus the little daughter, whom
he had so fondly cherished, became the property of Mr. Jackson, who valued her as he would
a handsome colt likely to bring a high price in the market. She was too young to understand
all the degradation to which she would be subjected, but she had once witnessed an auction
of slaves, and the idea of being sold filled her with terror. She had endured six months of
corroding homesickness and constant fear, when Mr. Noble came to her rescue.

After a few weeks passed with the colored washerwoman, she was placed with an elderly French
widow, who was glad to eke out her small income by taking motherly care of her, and giving
her instruction in music and French. The caste to which she belonged on the mother's side was
rigorously excluded from schools, therefore it was not easy to obtain for her a good education
in the English branches. These Alfred took upon himself; and a large portion of his evenings
was devoted to hearing her lessons in geography, arithmetic, and history. Had any one told
him, a year before, that hours thus spent would have proved otherwise than tedious, he would
not have believed it. But there was a romantic charm about this secret treasure, thus singularly
placed at his disposal; and the love and gratitude he inspired gradually became a necessity
of his life. Sometimes he felt sad to think that the time must come when she would cease to
be a child, and when the quiet, simple relation now existing between them must necessarily
change. He said to the old French lady, "By and by, when I can afford it, I will send her to
one of the best schools at the North. There she can become a teacher and take care of herself."
Madame Labassé smiled, shrugged her shoulders, and said, "Nous verrons." She did not believe it.

The years glided on, and all went prosperously with the young merchant. Through various conflicts
with himself, his honorable resolution remained unbroken. Loo Loo was still his sister. She
had become completely entwined with his existence. Life would have been very dull without her
affectionate greetings, her pleasant little songs, and the graceful dances she had learned
to perform so well. Sometimes, when he had passed a peculiarly happy evening in this fashion,
Madame Labassé would look mischievous, and say, "But when do you think you shall send her to
that school?" True, she did not often repeat this experiment; for whenever she did it, the
light went out of his countenance, as if an extinguisher were placed upon his soul. "I ought
to do it," he said within himself; "but how can I live without her?" The French widow was the
only person aware how romantic and how serious was this long episode in his life. Some gentlemen,
whom he frequently met in business relations, knew that he had purchased a young slave, whom
he had placed with a French woman to be educated; but had he told them the true state of the
case, they would have smiled incredulously. Occasionally, they uttered some joke about the
fascination which made him so indifferent to cards and horses; but the reserve with which he
received such jests checked conversation on the subject, and all, except Mr. Grossman, discontinued
such attacks, after one or two experiments.

As Mr. Noble's wealth increased, the wish grew stronger to place Louisa in the midst of as
much elegance as had surrounded her in childhood. When the house at Pine Grove was unoccupied,
they often went out there, and it was his delight to see her stand under the Gothic arch of
trees, a beautiful tableau vivant, framed in vines. It was a place so full of heart-memories
to her, that she always lingered there as long as possible, and never left it without a sigh.
In one place was a tree her father had planted, in another a rose or a jessamine her mother
had trained. But dearest of all was a recess among the pine-trees, on the side of a hill. There
was a rustic garden-chair, where her father had often sat with her upon his knee, reading wonderful
story-books, bought for her on his summer excursions to New York or Boston. In one of her visits
with Alfred, she sat there and read aloud from "Lalla Rookh." It was a mild winter day. The
sunlight came mellowed through the evergreens, a soft carpet of scarlet foliage was thickly
strewn beneath their feet, and the air was redolent of the balmy breath of pines. Fresh and
happy in the glow of her fifteen summers, how could she otherwise than enjoy the poem? It was
like sparkling wine in a jewelled goblet. Never before had she read anything aloud in tones
so musically modulated, so full of feeling. And the listener? How worked the wine in him? A
voice within said, "Remember your vow, Alfred! this charming Loo Loo is your adopted sister";
and he tried to listen to the warning. She did not notice his tremor, when he rose hastily
and said, "The sun is nearly setting. It is time for my sister to go home."

"Home?" she repeated, with a sigh. "This is my home. I wish I could stay here always. I feel
as if the spirits of my father and mother were with us here." Had she sighed for an ivory palace
inlaid with gold, he would have wished to give it to her,--he was so much in love!

A few months afterward, Pine Grove was offered for sale. He resolved to purchase it, and give
her a pleasant surprise by restoring her to her old home, on her sixteenth birth-day. Madame
Labassé, who greatly delighted in managing mysteries, zealously aided in the preparations.
When the day arrived, Alfred proposed a long ride with Loo Loo,--in honor of the anniversary;
and during their absence, Madame, accompanied by two household servants, established herself
at Pine Grove. When Alfred returned from the drive, he proposed to stop and look at the dear
old place, to which his companion joyfully assented. But nothing could exceed her astonishment
at finding Madame Labassé there, ready to preside at a table spread with fruit and flowers.
Her feelings overpowered her for a moment, when Alfred said, "Dear sister, you said you wished
you could live here always; and this shall henceforth be your home."

"You are too good!" she exclaimed, and was about to burst into tears. But he arrested their
course by saying, playfully, "Come, Loo Loo, kiss my hand, and say, 'Thank you, Sir, for buying
me.' Say it just as you did six years ago, you little witch!"

Her swimming eyes smiled like sunshine through an April shower, and she went through the pantomime,
which she had often before performed at his bidding. Madame stepped in with her little jest:
"But, Sir, when do you think you shall send her to that pension?"

"Never mind," he replied, abruptly; "Let us be happy!" And he moved toward the table to distribute
the fruit.

It was an inspiring spring-day, and ended in the loveliest of evenings. The air was filled
with the sweet breath of jessamines and orange-blossoms. Madame touched the piano, and, in
quick obedience to the circling sound, Alfred and Loo Loo began to waltz. It was long before
youth and happiness grew weary of the revolving maze. But when at last she complained of dizziness,
he playfully whirled her out upon the piazza, and placed her on a lounge under the Cherokee
rose her mother had trained, which was now a mass of blossoms. He seated himself in front of
her, and they remained silent for some minutes, watching the vine-shadows play in the moonlight.
As Loo Loo leaned on the balustrade, the clustering roses hung over her in festoons, and trailed
on her white muslin drapery. Alfred was struck, as he had been many times before, with the
unconscious grace of her attitude. In imagination, he recalled his first vision of her in early
childhood, the singular circumstance that had united their destinies, and the thousand endearing
experiences which day by day had strengthened the tie. As these thoughts passed through his
mind, he gazed upon her with devouring earnestness. She was too beautiful, there in the moonlight,
crowned with roses!

"Loo Loo, do you love me?" he exclaimed.

The vehemence of his tone startled her, as she sat there in a mood still and dreamy as the
landscape.

She sprang up, and, putting her arm about his neck, answered, "Why, Alfred, you know your sister
loves you."

"Not as a brother, not as a brother, dear Loo Loo," he said, impatiently, as he drew her closely
to his breast. "Will you be my love? Will you be my wife?"

In the simplicity of her inexperience, and the confidence induced by long habits of familiar
reliance upon him, she replied, "I will be anything you wish."

No flower was ever more unconscious of a lover's burning kisses than she was of the struggle
in his breast.

His feelings had been purely compassionate in the beginning of their intercourse; his intentions
had been purely kind afterward; but he had gone on blindly to the edge of a slippery precipice.
Human nature should avoid such dangerous passes.

Reviewing that intoxicating evening in a calmer mood, he was dissatisfied with his conduct.
In vain he said to himself that he had but followed a universal custom; that all his acquaintance
would have laughed in his face, had he told them of the resolution so bravely kept during six
years. The remembrance of his mother's counsels came freshly to his mind; and the accusing
voice of conscience said, "She was a friendless orphan, whom misfortune ought to have rendered
sacred. What to you is the sanction of custom? Have you not a higher law within your own breast?"

He tried to silence the monitor by saying, "When I have made a little more money, I will return
to the North. I will marry Loo Loo on the way and she shall be acknowledged to the world as
my wife, as she now is in my own soul."

Meanwhile, the orphan lived in her father's house as her mother had lived before her. She never
aided the voice of Alfred's conscience by pleading with him to make her his wife; for she was
completely satisfied with her condition, and had undoubting faith that whatever he did was
always the wisest and the best.

[To be continued.]

CHARLEY'S DEATH.

  The wind got up moaning, and blew to a breeze;
   I sat with my face closely pressed on the pane;
   In a minute or two it began to rain,
  And put out the sunset-fire in the trees.

  In the clouds' black faces broke out dismay
   That ran of a sudden up half the sky,
   And the team, cutting ruts in the grass, went by,
  Heavy and dripping with sweet wet hay.

  Clutching the straws out and knitting his brow,
   Walked Arthur beside it, unsteady of limb;
   I stood up in wonder, for, following him,
  Charley was used to be;--where was he now?

  "'Tis like him," I said, "to be working thus late!"--
   I said it, but did not believe it was so;
   He could not have staid in the meadow to mow,
  With rain coming down at so dismal a rate.

  "He's bringing the cows home."--I choked at that lie:
   They were huddled close by in a tumult and fret,
   Some pawing the dry dust up out of the wet,
  Some looking afield with their heads lifted high.

  O'er the run, o'er the hilltop, and on through the gloom
   My vision ran quick as the lightning could dart;
   All at once the blood shocked and stood still in my heart;--
  He was coming as never till then he had come!

  Borne 'twixt our four work-hands, I saw through the fall
   Of the rain, and the shadows so thick and so dim,
   They had taken their coats off and spread them on him,
  And that he was lying out straight,--that was all!

THE CATACOMBS OF ROME.

[Continued.]

Custodit Dominus emnia ossa eorum. Ps. xxxiii. 20

III.

Not quite two miles from the city-gate known as the Porta Pia, there stands, on the left hand
of the Nomentan Way, the ancient, and, until lately, beautiful, Church of St. Agnes outside
the Walls. The chief entrance to it descends by a flight of wide steps; for its pavement is
below the level of the ground, in order to afford easy access to the catacombs known as those
of St. Agnes, which opened out from it and stretched away in interlacing passages under the
neighboring fields. It was a quiet, retired place, with the sacredness that invests every ancient
sanctuary, in which the prayers and hymns of many generations have risen. The city was not
near enough to disturb the stillness within its walls; little vineyards, and plots of market-garden,
divided from each other by hedges of reeds and brambly roses, with wider open fields in the
distance, lay around it; a deserted convent stood at its side; its precious marble columns
were dulled and the gold ground of its mosaics was dimmed by the dust of centuries; its pavement
was deeply worn; and its whole aspect was that of seclusion and venerable age, without desertion
and without decay.

The story of St. Agnes is one of those which at the beginning of the fourth century became
popular among the Christians and in the Church of Rome. The martyrdom, under most cruel tortures
and terrors, of a young girl, who chose to die rather than yield her purity or her faith, and
who died with entire serenity and peace, supported by divine consolations, caused her memory
to be cherished with an affection and veneration similar to that in which the memory of St.
Cecilia was already held,--and very soon after her death, which is said to have taken place
in the year 304, she was honored as one of the holiest of the disciples of the Lord. Her story
has been a favorite one through all later ages; poetry and painting have illustrated it; and
wherever the Roman faith has spread, Saint Agnes has been one of the most beloved saints both
of the rich and the poor, of the great and of the humble.

In her Acts[A] it is related that she was buried by her parents in a meadow on the Nomentan
Way. Here, it is probable, a cemetery had already for some time existed; and it is most likely
that the body of the Saint was laid in one of the common tombs of the catacombs. The Acts go
on to tell, that her father and mother constantly watched at night by her grave, and once,
while watching, "they saw, in the mid silence of the night, an army of virgins, clothed in
woven garments of gold, passing by with a great light. And in the midst of them they beheld
the most blessed virgin Agnes, shining in a like dress, and at her right hand a lamb whiter
than snow. At this sight, great amazement took possession of her parents and of those who were
with them. But the blessed Agnes asked the holy virgins to stay their advance for a moment,
when she said to her parents, 'Behold, weep not for me as for one dead, but rejoice with me
and wish me joy; for with all these I have received a shining seat, and I am united in heaven
to Him whom while on earth I loved with all my heart.' And with these words she passed on."
The report of this vision was spread among the Christians of Rome. The pleasing story was received
into willing hearts; and the memory of the virgin was so cherished, that her name was soon
given to the cemetery where she had been buried, and, becoming a favorite resting-place of
the dead, its streets were lengthened by the addition of many graves.

[Footnote A: This is the name given to the accounts of the saints and martyrs composed in early
times for the use of the Church.]

Not many years afterwards, Constantia, the daughter of the Emperor Constantine, suffering from
a long and painful disease, for which she found no relief, heard of the marvellous vision,
and was told of many wonderful cures that had been wrought at the tomb and by the intercession
of the youthful Saint. She determined, although a pagan, to seek the aid of which such great
things were told; and going to the grave of Agnes at night, she prayed for relief. Falling
suddenly into a sweet sleep, the Saint appeared to her, and promised her that she should be
made well, if she would believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. She awoke, as the story relates,
full of faith, and found herself well. Moved with gratitude, she besought her father to build
a church on the spot in honor of Saint Agnes, and in compliance with her wish, and in accordance
with his own disposition to erect suitable temples for the services of his new faith, Constantine
built the church, which a few centuries later was rebuilt in its present form and adorned with
the mosaics that still exist.

Nearly about the same time a circular building was erected hard by the church, designed as
a mausoleum for Constantia and other members of the imperial family. The Mausoleum of Hadrian
was occupied by the bodies of heathen emperors and empresses, and filled with heathen associations.
New tombs were needed for the bodies of those who professed to have revolted from heathenism.
The marble pillars of the Mausoleum of Constantia were taken from more ancient and nobler buildings,
its walls were lined with mosaics, and her body was laid in a splendid sarcophagus of porphyry.
In the thirteenth century, after Constantia had been received into the liberal community of
Roman saints, her mausoleum was consecrated as a church and dedicated to her honor. A narrow,
unworn path leads to it from the Church of St. Agnes; it has been long left uncared-for and
unfrequented, and, stripped of its movable ornaments, it is now in a half-ruinous condition.
But its decay is more impressive than the gaudy brightness of more admired and renovated buildings.
The weeds that grow in the crevices of its pavement and hang over the capitals of its ancient
pillars, the green mould on its walls, the cracks in its mosaics, are better and fuller of
suggestion to the imagination than the shiny surface and the elaborate finish of modern restorations.
Restoration in these days always implies irreverence and bad taste. But the architecture of
this old building and the purpose for which it was originally designed present a marked example
of the rapidity of the change in the character of the Christians with the change of their condition
at Rome, during the reign of Constantine. The worldliness that follows close on prosperity
undermined the spirit of faith; the pomp and luxury of the court and the palace were carried
into the forms of worship, into the construction of churches, into the manner of burial. Social
distinctions overcame the brotherhood in Christ. Riches paved an easy way into the next world,
and power set up guards around it. Imperial remains were not to mingle with common dust, and
the mausoleum of the princess rose above the rock-hewn and narrow grave of the martyr and saint.

The present descent into the catacombs that lie near the churches of St. Agnes and St. Constantia
is by an entrance in a neighboring field, made, after the time of persecution, to accommodate
those who might desire to visit the underground chapels and holy graves. A vast labyrinth of
streets spreads in every direction from it. Many chambers have been cut in the rock at the
side of the passages,--some for family burial-places, some for chapels, some for places of
instruction for those not yet fully entered into the knowledge of the faith. It is one of the
most populous of the subterranean cemeteries, and one of the most interesting, from the great
variety in its examples of underground architectural construction, and from the number of the
paintings that are found upon its walls. But its peculiar interest is, that it affords at one
point a marked example of the connection of an arenarium, or pit from which pozzolana was extracted,
with the streets of the cemetery itself. At this point, the bed of compact tufa, in which the
graves are dug, degenerates into friable and loosely compacted volcanic sand,--and it was here,
very probably, that the cemetery was begun, at a time when every precaution had to be used
by the Christians to prevent the discovery of their burial-places. No other of the catacombs
gives a clearer exhibition of the differences in construction resulting from the different
objects of excavation. In the Acts known as those of St. Valentine it is related, that in the
time of Claudius many Christians were condemned to work in certain sand-pits. Under cover of
such opportunities, occasions might be found in which hidden graves could be formed in the
neighboring harder soil. In digging out the sand, the object was to take out the greatest quantity
consistent with safety, leaving only such supports as were necessary to hold up the superincumbent
earth. There are few regular paths, but wide spaces with occasional piers,--the passages being
of sufficient width to admit of the entrance of beasts of burden, and even of carts. The soil
crumbles so easily, that no row of excavations one above another could be made in it; for the
stroke of the pick-axe brings it down in loose masses. The whole aspect of the sand-pit contrasts
strikingly with that of the catacombs, with their three-feet wide galleries, their perpendicular
walls, and their tier on tier of graves.

The stratum of pozzolana at the Catacombs of St. Agnes overlies a portion of the more solid
stratum of tufa, and the entrance to the sand-pit from the cemetery is by steps leading up
from the end of a long gallery. Such an entrance could have been easily concealed; and the
tufa cut out for the graves, after having been reduced to the condition of pozzolana, might
easily at night have been brought up to the floor of the pit. In many of the Acts of the Martyrs
it is said that they were buried in Arenario, "in the sand-pit,"--an expression which, there
seems no good reason for doubting, meant in the catacombs whose entrance was at the sand-pit,
they not having yet received a distinctive name.

It is difficult to convey to a distant reader even a small share of the interest with which
one sees on the spot evidences of the reality of the precautions with which, in those early
centuries, the Christians of Rome were forced to guard themselves against a persecution which
extended to their very burial-places,--or even of the interest with which one walks through
the unchanged paths dug out of the rock by this tenebrosa et lucifugax natio. In the midst
of the obscurity of history and the fog of fable, here is the solid earth giving evidence of
truth. Here one sees where, by the light of his dim candle, the solitary digger hollowed out
the grave of one of the near followers of the apostles; and here one reads in hasty and ill-spelt
inscriptions something of the affection and of the faith of those who buried their dead in
the sepulchre dug in the rock. The Christian Rome underground is a rebuke to the Papal Rome
above it; and, from the worldly pomp, the tedious forms, the trickeries, the mistakes, the
false claims and falser assertions, the empty architecture that reveals the infidelity of its
builders, the gross materialism, and the crass superstition of the Roman Church, one turns
with relief of heart and eyes to the poverty and bareness of the dark and narrow catacombs,
and to the simple piety of the words found upon their graves. In them is at once the exhibition
and the promise of a purer Christianity. In them, indeed, one may see only too plainly the
evidences of ignorance, the beginnings of superstitions, the first, traces of the corruption
of the truth, the proofs of false zeal and of foolish martyrdoms,--but with these are also
to be plainly seen the purity and the spirituality of elevated Christian faith.

In the service of the Roman Church used at the removal of the bodies of the holy martyrs from
their graves in the catacombs is a prayer in which are the words,--"Thou hast set the bodies
of thy soldiers as guards around the walls of this thy beloved Jerusalem";--and as one passes
from catacomb to catacomb, it is, indeed, as if he passed from station to station of the encircling
camp of the great army of the martyrs. Leaving the burial-place of St. Agnes, we continue along
the Nomentan Way to the seventh milestone from Rome. Here the Campagna stretches on either
side in broad, unsheltered sweeps. Now and then a rough wall crosses the fields, marking the
boundaries of one of the great farms into which the land is divided. On the left stands a low
farm-house, with its outlying buildings, and at a distance on each side the eye falls on low
square brick towers of the Middle Ages, and on the ruinous heaps of more ancient tombs. The
Sabine mountains push their feet far down upon the plain, covered with a gray-green garment
of olive-woods. Few scenes in the Campagna are more striking, from the mingling of barrenness
and beauty, from the absence of imposing monumental ruins and the presence of old associations.
The turf of the wide fields was cropped in the winter by the herds driven down at that season
from the recesses of the Neapolitan mountains, and the irregular surface of the soil afforded
no special indications of treasures buried beneath it. But the Campagna is full of hidden graves
and secreted buildings.

In the Acts of the Martyrdom of St. Alexander, who, according to the story of the Church, was
the sixth successor of St. Peter, and who was put to death in the persecution of Trajan, in
the year 117, it was said that his body was buried by a Roman lady, Severina, "on her farm,
at the seventh milestone from Rome on the Nomentan Way." These Acts, however, were regarded
as apocryphal, and their statement had drawn but little attention to the locality. In the spring
of 1855, a Roman archaeologist, Signore Guidi, obtained permission from the Propaganda, by
whom the land was now held, as a legacy from the last of the Stuarts, the Cardinal York, to
make excavations upon it. Beginning at a short distance from the road, on the right hand, and
proceeding carefully, he soon struck upon a flight of steps formed of pieces of broken marble,
which, at about fifteen feet below the surface of the ground, ended upon a floor paved with
bits of marble, tombstones, and mosaics. As the work proceeded, it disclosed the walls of an
irregular church, that had been constructed, like that of St. Agnes, partially beneath the
soil, for the purpose of affording an entrance into adjoining catacombs. Remains of the altar
were found, and portions of the open-work marble screen which had stood before it over the
crypt in which the bodies of St. Alexander and one of his fellow-martyrs had been placed. A
part of the inscription on its border was preserved, and read as follows: ET ALEXANDRO DEDICATUS
VOTUM POSUIT CONSECRANTE URSO EPISCOPO,--"Dedicatus placed this in fulfilment of a vow to ----
and Alexander, the Bishop Ursus consecrating it." The Acts supply the missing name of Eventius,--an
aged priest, who, it was said, had conversed with some of the apostles themselves. His greater
age had at that early and simple time given him the place of honor in the inscription and in
men's memory before the youthful, so-called, Pope Alexander. Probably this little church had
been built in the fourth century, and here a bishop had been appointed to perform the rites
within it.

It was a strange and touching discovery, that of this long-buried, rude country-church,--the
very existence of which had been forgotten for more than a thousand years. On the 3d of May,
1855, the day set apart in the calendar to the honor of the saints to whom it was consecrated,
the holy services were once more performed upon the ancient altar of the roofless sanctuary.
The voices of priest and choir sounded through the long silent chapels, while the larks sang
their hymns of gladness over the fields above. On the rough floor, inscriptions, upon which,
in the early centuries, the faithful had knelt, were again read by kneeling worshippers. On
one broken slab of marble was the word MARTYR; on another, the two words, SPARAGINA FIDELIS;
on another, POST VARIAS CURAS, POST LONGE MONITA VITAE.

The catacombs opening from the church have not been entered to a great distance, and though
more rudely excavated than most of those nearer the city, as if intended for the burial-places
of a poorer population, they are of peculiar interest because many of their graves remain in
their original state, and here and there, in the mortar that fastens their tiled fronts, portions
of the vessel of glass or pottery that held the collected blood of the martyr laid within are
still undisturbed. No pictures of any size or beauty adorn the uneven walls, and no chapels
are hollowed out within them. Most of the few inscriptions are scratched upon the mortar,--Spiritus
tuus in bono quiescat,--but now and then a bit of marble, once used for a heathen inscription,
bears on its other side some Christian words. None of the inscriptions within the church which
bear a date are later than the end of the fifth century, and it seems likely that shortly after
this time this church of the Campagna was deserted, and its roof falling in, it was soon concealed
under a mass of rubbish and of earth, and the grass closed it with its soft and growing protection.

During two years, the uncovered church, with its broken pillars, its cracked altar, its imperfect
mosaics, its worn pavement, remained open to the sky, in the midst of solitude. But how could
anything with such simple and solemn associations long escape desecration at Rome? How could
such an opportunity for restoration be passed over? How could so sacred and venerable a locality
be protected from modern superstition and ecclesiastical zeal? In the spring of 1837, preparations
were being made for building upon the ground, and a Carthusian convent, it was said, was to
be erected, which would enclose within its lifeless walls the remains of the ancient church.
Once more, then, it is to be shut out of the sky; and now it is not Nature that asserts her
predominance, protecting while she conceals, and throwing her mantle over the martyrs' graves
to keep them from sacrilege,--but she is driven away by the builders of the papal court, and
all precious old associations are incongruous with those of modern Roman architecture and Roman
conventual discipline.

One morning, in the spring of 1855, shortly after the discovery had been made, the Pope went
out to visit the Church of St. Alexander. On his return, he stopped to rest in the unoccupied
convent adjoining the Church of St. Agnes. Here there was a considerable assemblage of those
who had accompanied him, and others who were admitted at this place to join his suite. They
were in the second story of the building, and the Pope was in the act of addressing them, when
suddenly the old floor, unable to support the unaccustomed weight, gave way, and most of the
company fell with it to the floor below. The Pope was thrown down, but did not fall through.
The moment was one of great confusion and alarm, the etiquette of the court was disturbed,
but no person was killed and no one dangerously hurt. In common language and in Roman belief,
it was a miraculous escape. The Pope, attributing his safety to the protection of the Virgin
and of St. Agnes, determined at once that the convent should be rebuilt and reoccupied, and
the church restored. The work is now complete, and all the ancient charm of time and use, all
the venerable look of age and quiet, have been laboriously destroyed, and gaudy, inharmonious
color, gilding and polish have been substituted in their place.

The debased taste and the unfeeling ignorance of restorers have been employed, as so often
in Italy, to spoil and desecrate the memorials of the past; and the munificence of Pius, Munificentia
Pii IX., is placarded on the inner walls. One is too frequently reminded at Rome of the old
and new lamps in the story of Aladdin.

We turn reluctantly from the Nomentan Way, and passing through Rome, we go out of the gate
which opens on the Appian. About a mile from the present wall, just where the road divides
before coming to the Catacombs of St. Callixtus, a little, ugly, white church, of the deformed
architecture of the seventeenth century, recalls, by its name of Domine quo vadis? "O Lord,
whither goest thou?" one of the most impressive, one of the earliest and simplest, of the many
legends of the legendary religious annals of Rome. It relates, that, at the time of the persecution
of Nero, St. Peter, being then in Rome, was persuaded to fly secretly from the city, in the
hope of escaping from the near peril. Just as he reached this place, trembling, we may well
believe, not more with fear than with doubt, while past scenes rose vividly before him, and
the last words heard from his Master's lips came with a flood of self-reproach into his heart,--as
he hurried silently along, with head bowed down, in the gray twilight, he became suddenly aware
of a presence before him, and, looking up, beheld the form of that beloved Master whom he was
now a second time denying. He beheld him, moreover, in the act of bearing his cross. Peter,
with his old ardor, did not wait to be addressed, but said, Domine, quo vadis?--"O Lord, whither
goest thou?" The Saviour, looking at him as he had looked but once before, replied, Venio Romam
iterum crucifigi,--"I come to Rome to be crucified a second time"; and thereupon disappeared.
Peter turned, reëntered the gate, and shortly after was crucified for his Lord's sake. His
body, it is said, was laid away in a grave on the Vatican Hill, where his great church was
afterwards built.

And here we come upon another legend, which takes us out again on the Appian Way, to the place
where now stands the Church of St. Sebastian. St. Gregory the Great relates in one of his letters,
that, not long after St. Peter and St. Paul had suffered martyrdom, some Christians came from
the East to Rome to find the bodies of these their countrymen, which they desired to carry
back with them to their own land. They so far succeeded as to gain possession of the bodies,
and to carry them as far as the second milestone on the Appian Way. Here they paused, and when
they attempted to carry the bodies farther, so great a storm of thunder and lightning arose,
that they were terrified, and did not venture to repeat their attempt. By this time, also,
the Romans had become aware of the carrying off of the sacred bodies, and, coming out from
the city, recovered possession of them. One of the old pictures on the wall of the portico
of the ancient basilica of St. Peter's preserved a somewhat different version of the legend,
representing the Romans as falling violently upon the Oriental robbers, and compelling them,
with a storm of blows, to yield up the possession of the relics they were carrying away by stealth.

But the legend went on further to state, that, on the spot where they thus had regained the
bodies of their saints, the Romans made a deep hole in the ground, and laid them away within
it very secretly. Here for some time they rested, but at length were restored to their original
tombs, the one on the Ostian Way, the other on the Vatican. But St. Peter was again to be laid
in this secret chamber in the earth on the Appian Way. In the episcopate of the saint and scoundrel
Callixtus, the Emperor Elagabalus, with characteristic extravagance and caprice, resolved to
make a circus on the Vatican, wide enough for courses of chariots drawn by four elephants abreast.
All the older buildings in the way were to be destroyed, to gratify this imperial whim; and
Callixtus, fearing lest the Christian cemetery, and especially the tomb of the prince of the
apostles might be discovered and profaned, removed the body of St. Peter once more to the Appian
Way. Here it lay for forty years, and round it and near it an underground cemetery was gradually
formed; and it was to this burial-place, first of all, that the name Catacomb,[B] now used
to denote all the underground cemeteries, was applied.

[Footnote B: A word, the derivation of which is not yet determined. The first instance of its
use is in the letter of Gregory from which we derive the legend. This letter was written A.D. 594.]

Though at length St. Peter was restored to the Vatican, from which he has never since been
removed, and where his grave is now hidden by his church, the place where he had lain so long
was still esteemed sacred. The story of St. Sebastian relates how, after his martyred body
had been thrown into the Cloaca Maxima, that his friends might not have the last satisfaction
of giving it burial, he appeared in a vision to Lucina, a Roman lady, told her where his body
might be found, and bade her lay it in a grave near that in which the apostles had rested.
This was done, and less than a century afterward a church rose to mark the place of his burial,
and connected with it, Pope Damasus, the first great restorer and adorner of the catacombs,
[A.D. 266-285,] caused the chamber that was formed below the surface of the ground around the
grave of the apostles to be lined with wide slabs of marble, and to be consecrated as a subterranean
chapel. It is curious enough that this pious work should have been performed, as is learned
from an inscription set up here by Damasus himself, in fulfilment of a vow, on the extinction
among the Roman clergy of the party of Ursicinus, his rival. This custom of propitiating the
favor of the saints by fair promises was thus early established. It was soon found out that
it was well to have a friend at court with whom a bargain could be struck. If the adorning
of this chapel was all that Damasus had to pay for the getting rid of his rival's party, the
bargain was an easy one for him. There had been terrible and bloody fights in the Roman streets
between the parties of the contending aspirants for the papal seat. Ursicinus had been driven
from Rome, but Damasus had had trouble with the priests of his faction. Some of them had been
rescued, as he was hurrying them off to prison, and had taken refuge with their followers in
the Basilica of St. Maria Maggiore. Damasus, with a mob of charioteers, gladiators, and others
of the scum of Rome, broke into the church, and slew a hundred and sixty men and women who
had been shut up within it. Ursicinus, however, returned to the city; there were fresh disturbances,
and a new massacre, on this occasion, in the Church of St. Agnes; and years passed before Damasus
was established as undisputed ruler of the Church.

It was then, in fulfilment of the vow he had made during his troubles, that Saint Damasus (for
he became a saint long since, success being a great sanctifier) adorned the underground chapel
of the apostles. The entrance to it is through the modern basilica of St. Sebastian. It is
a low, semicircular chamber, with irregular walls, in which a row of arched graves (arcosolia)
has been formed, which once were occupied, probably, by bodies of saints or martyrs. Near the
middle of the chapel is the well, about seven feet square, within which are the two graves,
lined with marble, where the bodies of the apostles are said to have lain hid. Fragments of
painting still remain on the walls of this pit, and three faint and shadowy figures may be
traced, which seem to represent the Saviour between St. Peter and St. Paul. Over the mouth
of the well stands an ancient altar. However little credence may be given to the old legends
concerning the place, it is impossible not to look with interest upon it. For fifteen hundred
years worshippers have knelt there as upon ground made holy by the presence of the two apostles.
The memory of their lives and of their teachings has, indeed, consecrated the place; and though
superstition has often turned the light of that memory into darkness, yet here, too, has faith
been strengthened, and courage become steadfast, and penitence been confirmed into holiness,
by the remembrance of the zeal, the denial of Peter, and the forgiveness of his Master, by
the remembrance of the conversion, the long service, the exhortations, and the death of Paul.

The catacombs proper, to which entrance may be had from the Basilica of St. Sebastian, are
of little importance in themselves, and have lost, by frequent alteration and by the erection
of works of masonry for their support, much that was characteristic of their original construction.
During a long period, while most of the other subterranean cemeteries were abandoned, this
remained open, and was visited by numerous pilgrims. It led visitors to the church, and the
guardians of the church found it for their interest to keep it in good repair. Thus, though
its value as one of the early burial-places of the Christians was diminished, another interest
attached to it through the character of some of those visitors who were accustomed to frequent
its dark paths. Saint Bridget found some of that wild mixture of materialism and mysticism,
(a not uncommon mingling,) which passes under the name of her Revelations, in the solitude
of these streets of the dead. Here St. Philip Neri, the Apostle of Rome, the wise and liberal
founder of the Oratorians, the still beloved saint of the Romans, was accustomed to spend whole
nights in prayer and meditation. Demons, say his biographers, and evil spirits assailed him
on his way, trying to terrify him and turn him back; but he overcame them all. Year after year
he kept up this practice, and gained strength, in the solitude and darkness, and in the presence
of the dead, to resist fiercer demons than any that had power to attack him from without. And
it is related, that, when St. Charles Borromeo, his friend, the narrow, but pure-minded reformer
of the Church, came to Rome, from time to time, he, too, used to go at night to this cemetery,
and watch through the long hours in penitence and prayer. Such associations as these give interest
to the cemetery of St. Sebastian's Church.

The preëminence which the Appian Way, regina viarum, held among the great streets leading from
Rome,--not only as the road to the South and to the fairest provinces, but also because it
was bordered along its course by the monumental tombs of the greatest Roman families,--was
retained by it, as we have seen, as the street on which lay the chief Christian cemeteries.
The tombs of the Horatii, the Metelli, the Scipios, were succeeded by the graves of a new,
less famous, but not less noble race of heroes. On the edge of the height that rises just beyond
the Church of St. Sebastian stand the familiar and beautiful ruins of the tomb of Cecilia Metella.
Of her who was buried in this splendid mausoleum nothing is known but what the three lines
of the inscription still remaining on it tell us,--

CAECILIAE Q. CRETICI F. METELLAE CRASSI.

She was the daughter of Quintus, surnamed the Cretan, and the wife of Crassus. But her tomb
overlooks the ground beneath which, in a narrow grave, was buried a more glorious Cecilia.[C]
The contrast between the ostentation and the pride of the tombs of the heathen Romans, and
the poor graves, hollowed out in the rock, of the Christians, is full of impressive suggestions.
The very closeness of their neighborhood to each other brings out with vivid effect the broad
gulf of separation that lay between them in association, in affection, and in hopes.

[Footnote C: Guéranger, Histoire de St. Cécile. p. 45.]

Coming out from the dark passages of the Catacombs of St. Callixtus, in the clear twilight
of a winter's evening, one sees rising against the red glow of the sky the broken masses of
the ancient tombs. One city of the dead lies beneath the feet, another stretches before the
eyes far out of sight. The crowded history of Rome is condensed into one mighty spectacle.
The ambitions, the hates, the valor, the passions, the religions, the life and death of a thousand
years are there; and, in the dimness of the dusky evening, troops of the dead rise before the
imagination and advance in slow procession by opposite ways along the silent road.

[To be continued]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PURE PEARL OF DIVER'S BAY.

[Concluded.]

V

Did she talk of flesh and blood, when she said that she would find him?--The summer passed
away; and when autumn came, it could not be said that search for the bodies of these fishermen
was quite abandoned. But no fragment of boat, nor body of father or son, ever came, by rumor
or otherwise, to the knowledge of the people of the Bay.

The voyage was long to Clarice. Marvellous strength and acuteness of vision come to the eyes
of those who watch. Keen grow the ears that listen. The soldier's wife in the land of Nena
Sahib inspires despairing ranks: "Dinna ye hear the pibroch? Hark! 'The Campbells are coming!'"--and
at length, when the hope she lighted has gone out in sullen darkness, and they bitterly resent
the joy she gave them,--lo, the bagpipes, banners, regiment! The pibroch sounds, "The Campbells
are coming!" The Highlanders are in sight!--But, oh, the voyage was long,--and Clarice could
see no sail, could hear no oar!

Clarice ceased to say that she must find the voyagers. She ceased to talk of them. She lived
in these days a life so silent, and, as it seemed, so remote from other lives, that it quite
passed the understanding of those who witnessed it. Tears seldom fell from her eyes, complaints
never;--but her interest was aroused by no temporal matter; she seemed, in her thoughts and
her desires, as far removed as a spirit from the influences of the external world.

This state of being no person who lives by bread alone could have understood, or endured patiently,
in one with whom in the affairs of daily life he was associated.

The Revelator was an exile in Patmos.

Dame Briton was convinced that Clarice was losing her wits. Bondo Emmins yielded to the force
of some inexplicable law, and found her fairer day by day. To his view, she was like a vision
moving through a dream, rather than like any actual woman; and though the drift of the vision
seemed not towards him, he was more anxious to compel it than to accomplish any other purpose
ever entertained. The actual nearness, the apparent unattainableness, of that he coveted, excited
in him such desires of conquest and possession as he would seek to appease in one way alone.
To win her would have been to the mind of any other inhabitant of Diver's Bay a feat as impracticable
as the capture of the noble ghost of Hamlet's father, as he stands exorcized by Mrs. Kemble.

And yet, while her sorrow made her the pity and the wonder of the people, it did not keep her
sacred from the reach of gossip. Observing the frequency with which Bondo Emmins visited Old
Briton's cabin, it was profanely said by some that the pale girl would ere long avert her eyes
from the dead and fix them on the living.

Emmins had frequent opportunities for making manifest his good-will towards the family of Briton.
The old man fell on the ice one day and broke his thigh, and was constrained to lie in bed
for many a day, and to walk with the help of crutches when he rose again. Then was the young
man's time to serve him like a son. He brought a surgeon from the Port,--and the inefficiency
of the man was not his fault, surely. Through tedious days and nights Emmins sat by the old
man's bedside, soothing pain, enlivening weariness, endeavoring to banish the gloomy elements
that combined to make the cabin the abode of darkness. He would have his own way, and no one
could prevent him. When Old Briton's money failed, his supplies did not. Even Clarice was compelled
to accept his service thankfully, and to acknowledge that she knew not how they could have
managed without him in this strait.

The accident, unfortunate as it might be deemed, nevertheless exercised a most favorable influence
over the poor girl's life. It brought her soul back to her body, and spoke to her of wants
and their supply,--of debts, of creditors,--of fish, and sea-weed, and the market,--of bread,
and doctor's bills,--of her poor old father, and of her mother. She came back to earth. Now,
henceforth, the support of the household was with her. Bondo Emmins might serve her father,--she
had no desire to prevent what was so welcome to the wretched old man,--but for herself, her
mother, the house, no favor from him!

And thus Clarice rose up to rival Bondo in her ready courage. When her father, at last careful,
at last anxious, thoughtful of the future, began to express his fear, he met the ready assurance
of his daughter that she should be able to provide all they should ever want; let him not be
troubled; when the spring came, she would show him.

The spring came, and Clarice set to work as never in her industrious life before. Day after
day she gathered sea-weed, dried it, and carried it to town. She went out with her mother in
the fishing-boat, and the two women were equal in strength and courage to almost any two men
of the Bay. She filled the empty fish-barrels,--and promised to double the usual number. She
dried wagon-loads of finny treasure, and she made good bargains with the traders. No one was
so active, no one bade fair to turn the summer to such profit as Clarice. She had come back
to flesh and blood.--John came back from Patmos.

Her face grew brown with tan; it was not lovely as a fair ghost's, any longer; it was ruddy,--and
her limbs grew strong. Bondo Emmins marked these symptoms, and took courage. People generally
said, "She is well over her grief, and has set her heart on getting rich. There is that much
of her mother in her." Others considered that Emmins was in the secret, and at the bottom of
her serenity and diligence.

Dame Briton and her spouse were not one whit wiser than their neighbors. They could not see
that any half-work was impossible with Clarice,--that, if she had resolved, for their sake,
to live as people must, who have bodies to respect and God-originated wants to supply, she
must live by a ceaseless activity. Because she had ascended far beyond tears, lamentation,
helplessness, they thought she had forgotten.

Yes, they came to this conclusion, though now and then, not often, generally on some pleasant
Sunday, when all her work was done, Clarice would go down to the Point and take her Sabbath
rest there. No danger of disturbance there!--of all bleak and desert places known to the people
of Diver's Bay, that point was bleakest and most deserted.

The place was hers, then. In this solitude she could follow her thoughts, and be led by them
down to the ocean, or away to heavenly depths. It was good for her to go there in quietness,--to
rest in recollection. Strength comes ever to the strong. This pure heart had nothing to fear
of sorrow. Sorrow can only give the best it has to such as she. Grief may weaken the selfish
and the weak; it may make children of the foolish and drivellers; by grief the inefficient
may come to the fulness of their inefficiency;--but out of the bitter cup the strong take strength,
though it may be with shuddering.

One Sunday morning Clarice lingered longer about the house than usual, and Emmins, who had
resolved, that, if she went that day to the Point, he would follow her, found her with her
father and mother, talking merely for their pleasure,--if the languid tones of her voice and
the absent look of her eyes were to be trusted.

Emmins thought that this moment was favorable to him. He was sure of Dame Briton and the old
man, and he almost believed that he was sure of Clarice. Finding her now with her father and
mother at home on this bright Sunday morning, one glance at her face surprised him and, almost
before he was aware, he had spoken what he had hitherto so patiently refrained from speaking.

But the answer of Clarice still more surprised him. With her eyes gazing out on the sea, she
stood, the image of silence, while Bondo warily set forth his hopes. Old Briton and the dame
looked on and deemed the symptoms favorable. But Clarice said,--

"Heart and hand I gave to him. I am the wife of Luke;--how can I marry another?"

Bondo seemed eager to answer that question, for he hastily waved his hand toward Dame Briton,
who began to speak.

"Luke will never come back," said he, gently expostulating.

"But I shall go to him," was the quiet reply.

Then the old people, whose hearts were in the wooing, broke out together,--and by their voices,
if one should argue with them, strife was not far off. Clarice staid one moment, as if to take
in the burden of each eager voice; then she shook her head:--

"I am married already," she said; "I gave him my heart and my hand. You would not rob Luke Merlyn?"

When she had so spoken, calmly, firmly, as if it were impossible that she should be moved or
agitated by such speech as this she had heard, Clarice walked away to the beach, unmoored her
father's boat, and rowed out into the Bay.

Bondo Emmins stood with the old people and gazed after her.

"Odd fish!" he muttered.

"Never mind," said Old Briton, hobbling up and down the sand; "it's the first time she's been
spoke to. She'll come round. I know Clarice."

"You know Clarice?" broke in Dame Briton. "You don't know her! She isn't Clarice,--she's somebody
else. Who, I don't know."

"Hush!" said Bondo, who had no desire that the couple should fall into a quarrel. "I know who
she is. Don't plague her. It will all come out right yet. I'll wait. But don't say anything
to her about it. Let me speak when the time comes.--Where's my pipe, Dame Briton?"

Emmins spent a good part of the day with the old people, and did not allow the conversation
once to turn upon himself and Clarice. But he talked of the improvements he should like to
make in the old cabin, and they discussed the market, and entertained each other with recollections
of past times, and with strange stories made up of odd imaginations and still more uncouth
facts. Supernatural influences were dwelt upon, and many a belief in superstitions belonging
to childhood was confessed in peaceful unconsciousness of the fact that it was Clarice who
had turned all their thoughts to-day from the great prosaic highway where plain facts have
their endless procession.

VI.

Clarice went out alone in her fishing-boat, as during all the past week she had purposed to
do when this day came, if it should prove favorable. She wished to approach the Point thus,--and
her purpose in so doing was such as no mortal could have suspected. And yet, as in the fulfilment
of this purpose she went, hastened from her delaying by the address of Bondo Emmins, it seemed
to her as if her secret must be read by the three upon the beach.

She wore upon her neck, as she had worn since the days of her betrothal to Luke, the cord to
which the pearl ring was attached. The ring had never been removed; but now, as Clarice came
near to the Point, she laid the oars aside, and with trembling hands untied the black cord
and disengaged the ring, and drew it on her finger, that trembled like a leaf. She was doing
now what Luke had bidden her do,--and for his sake. Until now she had always looked upon it
as a ring of betrothal; henceforth it was her wedding-ring,--the evidence of her true marriage
with Luke Merlyn.

O unseen husband, didst thou see her as anew she gave herself to love, to constancy, to duty?

She was floating toward the Point, when she knelt in the fishing-boat and plunged the hand
that wore the ring under the bright cold water. How bright, how cold it was! It chilled Clarice;
she shuddered; was she the bride of Death? But she did not rise from her knees, neither withdraw
her hand, until her vow, the vow she was there to speak, was spoken. There she knelt alone
in the great universe, with God and Luke Merlyn.

When at last she stood upon the Point, she had strength to meet her destiny, and patience to
wait while it was being developed. She knew her marriage covenant was blest, and filial duty
was divested of every thought or notion that could tempt or deceive her. Treading thus fearlessly
among the high places of imagination, no prescience of mortal trouble could lurk among the
mysterious shadows. By her faith in the eternity of love she was greatly more than conqueror.

The day passed, and night drew near. It was the purpose of Clarice to row home with the tide.
But a strange thing happened to her ere she set out to return. As she stood looking out upon
the sea, watching the waves as they rolled and broke upon the beach, a new token came to her
from the deep.

Almost as she might have waited for Luke, she stood watching the onward drift; calculating
the spot at which the waves would deposit their burden, she stood there when the plank was
borne inland, to save it, if possible, from being dashed with violence on the rocks.

To this plank a child was bound,--a little creature that might be three years old. At the sight
of this form, and this helplessness, the heart of the woman seemed to break into sudden living
flame. She carried the plank down to a level spot with an energy that would have made light
of a burden even ten times as great; she stooped upon the sand; she unbound the body; and she
thought, "The child is dead!" Nevertheless she took him in her arms; she dried his limbs with
her apron; she wiped his face, and rubbed his hair;--but he gave no sign of life. Then she
wrapped him in her shawl, and laid him in the boat, and rowed home.

There was no one in the cabin when Clarice went in. When Dame Briton came home, she found her
daughter with a ring upon her finger, bending over the body of a child that lay upon her bed.

The dame was quickly brought into service, and there was no reason to fear that she would desist
from her labors until she had received some evidence of death or life. She and Clarice worked
all night over the body of the child, and towards morning were rewarded by the result. The
boy's eyes opened, and he tried to speak. By noon of that day he was lying in the arms of Clarice,
deathly pallor on his little face; but he could speak, and his pretty eyes were open.

All those hours of mutual sympathy and striving, Dame Briton had been thinking to say, "Clarice,
what's the ring for?" But she had not said it, when, in the afternoon, Bondo Emmins came into
the cabin, and saw Clarice with a beautiful boy in her arms, wrapped in her shawl, while before
the fire some rags of infant garments were drying.

They talked over the boy's fortune and the night's work, the dame taking the chief conduct
of the story; and Bondo was so much interested, and praised the child so much, and spoke with
so much concern of the solitary, awful voyage the little one must have made, that, when he
subsequently offered to take the child in his arms, Clarice let him go, and explained, when
the young man began to talk to the boy, that he could not understand a word, neither could
she make out the meaning of his speech.

Emmins heard Clarice say that she must go to the Port the next day and learn what vessel had
been lost, and if any passengers were saved; and by daybreak he set out on that errand. He
returned early in the morning with the news that a merchantman, the "Gabriel," had gone down,
and that cargo and crew were lost. While he was telling this to Clarice he observed the ring
upon her finger, and he coupled the appearing of that token with the serenity of the girl's
face, and hailed his conclusion as one who hoped everything from change and nothing from constancy.

Clarice had found the boy in the place where she had looked for Luke that night when his cap
was washed to her feet. Over and over again she had said this to her father and mother while
they busied themselves about the unconscious child; now she said it again to Bondo Emmins,
as if there were some special significance in the fact, as indeed to her there was. He was
her child, and he should be her care, and she would call him Gabriel.

People could understand the burden imposed upon the laborious life of Clarice by this new,
strange care. But they did not see the exceeding great reward, nor how the love that lingered
about a mere memory seemed blessed to the poor girl with a blessing of divine significance.

To make the child her own by some special act that should establish her right became the wish
of Clarice. It was not enough for her that she should toil for him while others slept, that
she should stint herself in order to clothe him in a becoming manner, that she should suffer
anxiety for him in the manifold forms best known to those who have endured it. She had given
herself to Luke, so that she feared no more from any man's solicitation. She would fain assert
her claim to this young life which Providence had given her. But this desire was suggested
by external influence, as her marriage covenant had been.

Now and then a missionary came down to Diver's Bay, and preached in the open air, or, if the
weather disappointed him, in the great shed built for the protection of fish-barrels and for
the drying of fish. No surprising results had ever attended his preaching; the meetings were
never large, though sometimes tolerably well attended; the preacher was almost a stranger to
the people; and the wonder would have been a notable one, had there been any harvest to speak
of in return for the seed he scattered. The seed was good; but the fowls of the air were free
to carry it away; the thorns might choke it, if they would; it was not protected from any wind
that blew.

A few Sundays after Gabriel became the charge of Clarice, the missionary came and preached
to the people about Baptism. Though burdened with a multitude of cares which he had no right
to assume, which kept him busy day and night in efforts lacking only the concentration that
would have made them effective, the man was earnest in his labor and his speech, and it chanced
now and then that a soul was ready for the truth he brought.

On this occasion he addressed the parents in their own behalf and that of their children. The
bright day, the magnificent view his eyes commanded from the place where he stood to address
the handful of people, the truth, with whose importance he was impressed, made him eloquent.
He spoke with power, and Clarice Briton, holding the hand of little Gabriel, listened as she
had never listened before.

"Death unto sin," this baptism signified, he said. She looked at the child's bright face; she
recalled the experience through which she had passed, by which she was able to comprehend these
words. She had passed through death; she had risen to life; for Luke was dead, and was alive
again,--therefore she lived also. Tears came into the girl's eyes, unexpected, abundant, as
she listened to the missionary's pleading with these parents, to give their little ones to
their Heavenly Father, and themselves to lives of holiness.

He would set the mark of the cross on their foreheads, he said, to show that they were Christ's
servants;--and then he preached of Christ, seeking to soften the tough souls about him with
the story of a divine childhood; and he verily talked to them as one should do who felt that
in all his speaking their human hearts anticipated him. It was not within the compass of his
voice to reach that savage note which in brutal ignorance condemns, where loving justice never
could condemn. He had an apprehension of the vital truth that belief in the world's Saviour
was not belief in a name, but the reception of that which Jesus embodied. He came down to Diver's
Bay, expecting to find human nature there, and the only pity was that he had not time to perform
what he attempted. Let us, however, thank him for his honest endeavor; and be glad, that, for
one, Clarice was there to hear him,--she heard him so gladly.

To take a vow for Gabriel, to give him to God, to confirm him in possession of the name she
had bestowed, became the desire of Clarice. One day when she had some business to transact
in the market, she dressed Gabriel in a new frock she had made for him, and took him with her
to the Port, carrying him in her arms half the way. She did not find the minister, but she
had tested the sincerity of her desire. When he came down again to the Bay, as he did the next
Sunday, she was waiting to give him the first fruits of his labors there.

He arrived early in the morning, that he might forestall the fishermen and their families in
whatever arrangements they might be making for the day. When Clarice first saw him, her heart
for a moment failed her,--she wished he had not come, or that she had gone off to spend the
day before she knew of his coming. But, in the very midst of her regrets, she caught up Gabriel
and walked forth to meet the preacher.

The missionary recognized Clarice, and he had already heard the story of the child. He was
the first to speak, and a few moments' talk, which seemed to her endless, though it was about
Gabriel, passed before she could tell him how she had sought him in his own home on account
of the boy, and what her wish was concerning him.

A naturalist, walking along that beach and discovering some long-sought specimen, at a moment
when he least looked and hoped for it, would have understood the feeling and the manner of
the missionary just then. Surprise came before gladness, and then followed much investigation,
whereby the minister would persuade himself, even as the naturalist under similar circumstances
would do, of the genuineness of what was before him;--he must ascertain all the attending circumstances.

It was a simple story that his questioning drew forth. The missionary learned something in
the interview, as well as Clarice. He learned what confidence there is in a noble spirit of
resignation; that it need not be the submission of helplessness. He saw anew, what he had learned
for himself under different circumstances, the satisfaction arising from industry that is based
on duty, and involves skill in craft, judgment in affairs, and that integrity which keeps one
to his oath, though it be not to his profit. He heard the voice of a tender, pitiful, loving
womanhood, strongly manifesting its right to protect helplessness, by the utterance of its
convictions concerning that helplessness. He knew that to such a woman the Master would have
spoken not one word of reproach, but many of encouragement and sympathy. So he spoke to her
of courage, and shared her hopes, by directing them with a generous confidence in her. He was
the man for his vocation, for in every strait he looked to his human heart for direction,--and
in his heart were not only sympathy and gentleness, but justice and judgment.

While he talked to Clarice, the idea which had taken cognizance of Gabriel alone enlarged,--it
involved herself.

"What doth hinder me to be baptized?" she asked, in the words of Philip.

"If thou believest, thou mayest."

Accordingly, at the conclusion of the morning prayer, when the preacher said, "Those persons
to be baptized may now come forward," Clarice Briton, leading little Gabriel by the hand, rose
from her seat and walked up before the congregation, and stood in the presence of all.

Not an eye was turned from her during the ceremony. When she lifted Gabriel, and held him in
her arms, and promised the solemn promises for him as well as for herself, the souls that witnessed
it thought that they had lost Clarice. The tears rolled down Old Briton's cheeks when he looked
upon the girl. What he saw he did not half understand, but there was an awful solemnity about
the transaction, that overpowered him. He and Dame Briton had come to the meeting because Clarice
urged them to do so;--she had said she was going to make a public promise about Gabriel, and
that was all she told them; for, beside that there was little time for explanation in the hurry
of preparing Gabriel and herself, Clarice's heart was too deeply stirred to admit of speech.
After she had obtained the promise of her parents, she said no more to them; they did not hear
her speak again until her firm "I will" broke on their ears.

Dame Briton was not half pleased at what she saw and heard, during this service. She looked
at Bondo Emmins to see what he was thinking,--but little she learned from his solemn face.
When the sign of the cross was laid on the forehead of Clarice, and on the forehead of Gabriel,
a frown for an instant was seen on his own; but it was succeeded by an expression of feature
such as made the dame look quickly away, for in that same instant his eyes were upon her.

Enough of surprise and gaping wonder would Dame Briton have discovered in other directions,
had she sought the evidences; but from Bondo Emmins she looked down at her "old man," and she
saw his tears. Then came Clarice, and before she knew it she was holding the little Christian
Gabriel in her stern old arms, and kissing away the drops of hallowed water that flashed upon
his eye-lids.

A sermon followed, the like of which, for poetry or wonder, was never heard among these people.
The preacher seemed to think this an occasion for all his eloquence; nay, for the sake of justice,
I will say, his heart was full of rejoicing, for now he believed a church was grafted here,
a Branch which the Root would nourish. His words served to deepen the impression made by the
ceremonial. Clarice Briton and little Gabriel shone in white raiment that day; and, thanks
to him, when he went on to prove the Kingdom of Heaven upon earth one with that mysterious
majesty on high, a single leap took Clarice Briton over the boundaries of faith.

VII.

But if to others Clarice seemed to have passed the boundary line of their dominion, to herself
the bond of neighborhood was strengthened. The missionary told her all he had a right to expect
of her now, as a fellow-worker, and pointed out to her the ways in which she might second his
labors at the Bay. It was but a new form of the old work to which she had been accustomed her
life long. Never, except in the dark summer months when all her life was eclipsed, had Clarice
lived unmindful of the old and sick and helpless, or of the little children. Her kindliness
of heart could surprise no one; her generosity was nothing strange; her caution, her industry,
her courage, her gentleness, were not traits to which her character had been a stranger hitherto.
But now they had a brighter manifestation. She became more than ever diligent in her service;
the Sunday-school was the result of old sentiments in a new and intelligent combination; and
the neighbors, who had always trusted Clarice, did not doubt her now. Novelty is always pleasing
to simple souls among whom innovation has not first taken the pains to excite suspicion of itself.

For a long time, more than usual uncertainty seemed to attend the chances of Gabriel's life.
In the close watching and constant care required of Clarice, the child became so dear to her,
that doubtless there was some truth in the word repeated in her hearing with intent to darken
any moment of special tenderness and joy, that this stranger was dearer to her than her "born
relations."

As much as was possible by gentle firmness and constant oversight, Clarice kept him from hurtful
influences. He was never mixed up in the quarrels of ungoverned children; he never became the
victim of their rude sport or cruelty. She would preserve him peaceful, gentle, pure; and in
a measure her aim was accomplished. She was the defender, companion, playmate of the child.
She told him pretty tales, the creations of her fancy, and strove by them to throw a soft illusion
around the rough facts of their daily life. The mystery surrounding him furnished her not meagrely
with material for her imagination; she could invent nothing that seemed to herself incredible;
her fairy tales were not more wonderful than facts as she beheld them. She taught the boy songs;
she gave him language. The clothes he wore, bought with her own money, fashioned by her own
hands, were such as became the beauty of the child, and the pure taste and the little purse
of Clarice.

Never had a childhood so radiant in beauty, so wonderful in every manifestation, developed
before the eyes of the folk of Diver's Bay. He became a wonder to the old and young. His sayings
were repeated. Enchantment seemed added to mystery;--anything might have been believed of Gabriel.

Sometimes, when she had dressed him in his Sunday suit, and they were alone together, Clarice
would put upon his finger the pearl ring,--her marriage ring. But she kept to herself the name
of Luke Merlyn till the time should come when, a child no longer, he should listen to the story;
and she would not make that story grievous for his gentle heart, but sweet and full of hope.
Well she knew how he would listen as none other could,--how serious his young face would look
when the sacred dawn of a celestial knowledge should begin to break; then a new day would rise
on Gabriel, and nothing should separate them then.

But, lurking near her joy, and near her perfect satisfaction, even in the days when some result
much toiled for seemed to give assurance that she was doing well and justly, was the shadow
of a doubt. One day the shadow deepened, and the doubt appeared. Clarice was sitting in the
doorway, busy at some work for Gabriel. The boy was playing with Old Briton, who could amuse
him by the hour, drawing figures in the sand. Dame Briton was busy performing some household
labor, when Bondo Emmins came rowing in to shore. Gabriel, at the sound of the oars, ran to
meet the fisherman, who had been out all day; the fisherman took the child in his arms, kissed
him, then placed in his hands a toy which he had brought for him from the Point, and bade him
run and show it to Clarice. Gabriel set out with shouts, and Emmins went back smiling to look
after his boatload.

"He's a good runner," said Old Briton, watching the child with laughter in his eyes. Dame Briton,
drawn to the door by the unusual noise, looked out to see the little fellow flying into Clarice's
arms, and she said, softly, "Pretty creature!" while she strode back to her toil.

Presently, the little flutter of his joy having subsided, Gabriel sat on the doorstep beside
Clarice, his eyes seriously peering into the undiscoverable mystery of the toy. Then Bondo
came up, and the toy was forgotten, the child darting away again to meet him. Emmins joined
the group with Gabriel in his arms, looking well satisfied.

"Gabriel is as happy as if this was his home in earnest," said he. He dropped the words to
try the group.

"His home!" cried Dame Briton, quickly. "Well, ain't it? Where then? I wonder."

The sharp tone of her voice told that the dame was not well pleased with Bondo's remark; for
the child had found his way into her heart, and she would have ruined him by her indulgence,
had it not been for Clarice's constant vigilance. And this was not the least of the difficulties
the girl had to contend with. For Dame Briton, you may be sure, though she might be compelled
to yield to her daughter's better sense, could never be constrained by her own child to hold
her tongue, and the arguments with which she abandoned many of her foolish purposes were almost
as fatal to Clarice's attempts at good government as the perfect accomplishment of these purposes
would have been.

Bondo answered her quick interrogatory, and the troubled wonder in the eyes of Clarice, with
a confused, "Of course it is his home; only I was thinking, that, to be sure, they must have
come from some place, and maybe left friends behind them."

Now it seemed as if this answer were not given with malicious purpose, but in proper self-defence;
and by the time Clarice looked at him, and made him thus speak, Bondo perhaps supposed that
he had not intended to trouble the poor soul. But he could not avoid perceiving that a deep
shadow fell upon the face of Clarice; and the conviction of her displeasure was not removed
when she arose and led the child away. But Clarice was not displeased. She was only troubled
sorely. She asked her surprised self a dreary question: If anywhere on earth the child had
a living parent, or if he had any near of kin to whom his life was precious, what right to
Gabriel had she? Providence had sent him to her, she had often said, with deep thankfulness;
but now she asked, Had he sent the child that she might restore him not only to life, but to
others, whom, but for her, death had forever robbed of him?

From the day that the shadow of this thought fell across her way, the composure and deep content
of the life of Clarice were disturbed. Not merely the presence of Emmins became a trouble and
annoyance, but the praise that her neighbors were prompt to lavish on Gabriel, whenever she
went among them, became grievous to her ears. The shadow which had swept before her eyes deepened
and darkened till it obscured all the future. She was experiencing all the trouble and difficulty
of one who seeks to evade the weight of a truth which has nevertheless surrounded and will
inevitably capture her.

Nothing of this escaped the eyes of the young fisherman. Time should work for him, he said;
he had shot an arrow; it had hit the mark; now he would heal the wound. He might easily have
persuaded himself that the wound was accidental, and so have escaped the conviction of injury
wrought with intention. All would have been immediately well with him and Clarice, had it not
been for Clarice! There are persons, their name is Legion, who are as wanton in offence as
Bondo Emmins,--whose souls are black with murderous records of hopes they have destroyed; yet
they will condole with the mourners!

To this doubt as to her duty, this evasion of knowledge concerning it, this silence in regard
to what chiefly occupied her conscience, was added a new trouble. As Gabriel grew older, a
restless, adventurous spirit began to manifest itself in him. From a distance regarding the
daring feats of other children, his impulse was to follow and imitate them. At times, in ungovernable
outbreaks of merriment, he would escape from the side of Clarice, with fleet, daring steps
which seemed to set her pleasure at defiance; and when, after his first exploit, which filled
her with astonishment, she prepared to join him in his sport, and did follow, laughing, a wilfulness,
which made her tremble, roused to resist her, and gave an almost tragic ending to the play.

One day she missed the lad. Searching for him, she found that he had gone out in a boat with
other children, among whom he sat like a little king, giving his orders, which the rest were
obeying with shouted repetitions. When Clarice called to him, and begged the children to return,
he followed their example, took off his cap, and waved it at her, in defiance, with the rest.

Clarice sat down on the shore in despair. Bitter tears ran down her cheeks.

Bondo Emmins passed by, and saw what was going on. "Ho! ho! Clarice needs some one to help
her hold the rein," said he to himself; and going to the water's edge, he raised his voice,
and beckoned the children ashore. He enforced the gesture by a word,--"Come home!"

The little rebels did not wait a second summons, but obeyed the strong voice of the strong
man, trembling. They paddled the boat to the shore, and landed quite crestfallen, ashamed,
it seemed. Then Bondo, having bid the youngsters disperse, with a threat, if he ever saw them
engaged in the like business, walked away, without speaking to Gabriel, or even looking at him.

VIII.

Clarice was half annoyed at this interference; it seemed to suppose, she thought, that she
was unequal to the management of her own affairs.--But was she equal to it?

After Bondo had walked away, she called to Gabriel, who stood alone when the other children
had deserted him, and knew not what to do. He would have run away, had he not been afraid of
fisherman Emmins.

"Come here, my son," said Clarice. She did not speak very loud, nor in the least sternly; but
he heard her quite distinctly, and he hesitated.

"I'm not your son!" he concluded to answer.

A sword through the heart of Clarice would have killed her, but there are pains which do not
slay that are worse than the pains of death. Clarice Briton's face was pale with anguish, when
she arose and said,--

"Gabriel, come here!"

The child saw something awful in her eyes, and heard in her voice something that made him tremble.
He came, and sat down in the place to which Clarice pointed. It was a hard moment for her.
Other words bitter as this, which disowned her love and care and defied her authority, the
child could not have spoken. She answered him as if he had not been a child; and a truth which
no words could have made him comprehend seemed to break upon and overwhelm him, while she spoke.

"It is true," she said, "you are not my son. I have no right to call you mine. Listen, Gabriel,
while I tell you how it happens that you live with me, and I take care of you, as if you were
my child. I was down at the Point one day,--that place where we go to watch the birds, you
know, my--Gabriel. While I sat there alone, I saw a plank that was dashed by the waves up and
down, as you see a boat carried when the wind blows hard and sounds so terrible; but there
was nobody to take care of that plank except God,--and He, oh, He, is always able to take care!
When that plank was washed near to the shore, I stepped out on the rocks and caught it, and
then I saw that a little child was tied fast to it; so I knew that some one must have thrown
him into the water, hoping that he would be picked up. I do not know what they who threw the
little child into the sea called him; but I, who found him, called him Gabriel, and I carried
him, all dripping with the salt sea-water, to my father's cabin. I laid him on my bed, and
my mother and I never stopped trying to waken him, till he opened his eyes; for he lay just
like one who never meant to open his eyes or speak again. At last my mother said, 'Clarice,
I feel his heart beat!' and I said in my heart, 'If it please God to spare his life, I will
work for him, and take care of him, and be a mother to him.' And I thought, 'He will surely
love me always, because God has sent him to me, and I have taken him, and have loved him.'
But now he has left me! He is mine no more! And oh, how I have loved him!"

Long before this story was ended, tears were running down Gabriel's face, and he was drawing
closer and closer to Clarice. When she ceased speaking, he hid his face in her lap and cried
aloud, according to the boisterous privilege of childhood.

"Oh, mother, dear mother, I haven't gone away! I'm here! I do love you! I am your little boy!"

"Gabriel! Gabriel! it was terrible! terrible!" burst from Clarice, with a groan, and a flood
of tears.

"Oh, don't, mother! Call me your boy! Don't say, Gabriel! Don't cry!"

So he found his way through the door of the heart that stood wide open for him. Storm and darkness
had swept in, if he had not.

The reconciliation was perfect; but the shadow that had obscured the future deepened that obscurity
after this day's experience. If her right to the lad needed no vindication, was she capable
of the attempted guidance and care? Could she bear this blessed burden safely to the end?

Sometimes, for a moment, it may have seemed to Clarice that Bondo Emmins could alone help her
effectually out of her bewilderment and perplexity. She had not now the missionary with whom
to consult, in whose wisdom to confide; and Bondo had a marvellous influence over the child.

He was disposed to take advantage of that influence, as he gave evidence, not long after the
exhibition of his control over the boat-load of delinquents, by asking Clarice if she were
never going to reward his constancy. He seemed at this time desirous of bringing himself before
her as an object of compassion, if nothing better; but she, having heard him patiently to the
end of what he had to urge in his own behalf and that of her parents, replied in words that
were certainly of the moment's inspiration, and almost beyond her will; for Clarice had been
of late so much troubled, no wonder if she should mistake expediency for right.

"I am married already," she said. "You see this ring. Do you not know what it has meant to
me, Bondo, since I first put it on? Death, as you call it, cannot part Luke Merlyn and me.
'Heart and hand,' he said. Can I forget it? My hand is free,--but he holds it; and my heart
is his.--But I can serve you better than you ask for, Bondo Emmins. You learned the name of
the vessel that sailed from Havre and was lost. Take a voyage. Go to France. See if Gabriel
has any friends there who have a right to him, and will serve him better than I can; and if
he has such friends, I myself will take Gabriel to them. Yes, I will do it.--You will love
a sailor's life, Bondo. You were born for that. Diver's Bay is not the place for you. I have
long seen it. The sea will serve you better than I ever could. Go, and Clarice will thank you.
Oh, Bondo, I beg you!"

At these words the man so appealed to became scarlet. He seemed to reflect on what Clarice
had said,--seriously to ponder; but his amazement at her words had almost taken away his power
of speech.

"The Gabriel sailed from Havre," said he, slowly, "If I went out as a deckhand in the next
ship that sails"--

"Yes!"

"To scour the country--I hope I shan't find what I look for; you couldn't live without him.--Very
likely you will think me a fool for my pains. You will not give me yourself. You would have
me take away the lad from you."--He looked at Clarice as if his words passed his belief.

"Yes, only do as I say,--for I know it must be the best for us all. There is nothing else to
be done,--no other way to live."

"France is a pretty big country to hunt over for a man whose name you don't know," said Emmins,
after a little pause.

"You can find what passengers sailed in the Gabriel," answered Clarice, eager to remove every
difficulty, and ready to contend with any that could possibly arise. "The vessel was a merchantman.
Such vessels don't take out many passengers.--Besides, you will see the world.--It is for everybody's
sake! Not for mine only,--no, truly,--no, indeed! May-be if another person around here had
found Gabriel, they would never have thought of trying to find out who he belonged to."

"I guess so," replied Bondo, with a queer look. "Only now be honest, Clarice; it's to get rid
of me, isn't it? But you needn't take that trouble. If you had only told me right out about
Luke Merlyn"--

While Bondo Emmins spoke thus, his face had unconsciously the very expression one sees on the
face of the boy whose foot hovers a moment above the worm he means to crush. The boy does not
expect to see the worm change to a butterfly just then and there, and mount up before his very
eyes toward the empyrean. Neither did Bondo Emmins anticipate her quiet--

"You knew about it all the while."

"Not the whole," said he,--"that you were married to Luke, as you say"; and the fisherman looked
hastily around him, as if he had expected to see the veritable Luke.

"It isn't to get rid of you, then, Bondo," Clarice explained; "but I read in the Book you don't
think much of, but it's everything to me, If ye have not been faithful in that which is another
man's, who shall give you that which is your own? So you see, I am a little selfish in it all;
for I want peace of mind, and I never shall have peace till it is settled about Gabriel; if
I must give him up, I can."

Bondo Emmins looked at Clarice with a strange look, as she spoke these words,--so faltering
in speech, so resolute in soul.

"And if I'm faithful over another man's," said he, "better the chance of getting my own, eh?
But I wonder what my own is."

"Everything that you can earn and enjoy honestly," replied Clarice.

Emmins rose up quickly at these words. He walked off a few paces without speaking. His face
was gloomy and sullen as a sky full of tornadoes when he turned his back on Clarice,--hardly
less so when he again approached her.

"I am no fool," said he, as he drew near.--From his tone one could hardly have guessed that
his last impulse was to strike the woman to whom he spoke.--"I know what you mean. You haven't
sent me on a fool's errand. Good bye. You won't see me again, Clarice--till I come back from
France. Time enough to talk about it then."

He did not offer to take her hand when he had so spoken, but was off before Clarice could make
any reply.

Clarice thought that she should see him again; but he went away without speaking to any other
person of his purpose; and when wonder on account of his absence began to find expression in
her father's house, and elsewhere, it was she who must account for it. People thereat praised
him for his good heart, and made much of his generosity, and wondered if this voyage were not
to be rewarded by the prize for which he had sought openly so long. Old Briton and his dame
inclined to that opinion.

But in the week following that of his departure there was a great stir and excitement among
the people of the Bay. Little Gabriel was missing. A search, that began in surprise when Clarice
returned home from some errand, was continued with increasing alarm all day, and night descended
amid the general conviction that the child was drowned. He had been seen at play on the shore.
No one could possibly furnish a more reasonable explanation. Every one had something to say,
of course, and Clarice listened to all, turning to one speaker after another with increasing
despair. Not one of them could restore the child to life, if he was dead.

There was a suspicion in her heart which she shared with none. It flashed upon her, and there
was no rest after, until she had satisfied herself of its injustice. She went alone by night
to town, and made her way fearlessly down to the harbor to learn if any vessel had sailed that
day, and when the last ship sailed for Havre. The answers to the inquiries she made convinced
her that Bondo Emmins must have sailed for France the day after his last conversation with her.

By daylight Clarice was again on the shore of Diver's Bay, there to renew a search which for
weeks was not abandoned. Gabriel had a place in many a rough man's heart, and the women of
the Bay knew well enough that he was unlike all other children; and though it did not please
them well that Clarice should keep him so much to herself, they still admired the result of
such seclusion, and praised his beauty and wonderful cleanliness, as though these tokens of
her care were really beyond the common range of things,--attainable, in spite of all she could
say, by no one but Clarice Briton, and for no one but Gabriel. These fishermen and their wives
did not speedily forget the wonderful boy; the boats never went out but those who rowed them
thought about the child; the gatherers of sea-weed never went to their work but they looked
for some token of him; and for Clarice,--let us say nothing of her just here. What woman needs
to be told how that woman watched and waited and mourned?

IX.

Few events ever occurred to disturb the tranquillity of the people of Diver's Bay. People wore
out and dropped away, as the old fishing boats did,--and new ones took their place.

Old Briton crumbled and fell to pieces, while he watched for the return of Bondo Emmins. And
Clarice buried her old mother. She was then left alone in the cabin, with the reminiscences
of a hard lot around her. The worn-out garments, and many rude traces of rough toil, and the
toys, few and simple, which had belonged to Gabriel, constituted her treasures. What was before
her? A life of labor and of watching; and Clarice was growing older every day.

Her hair turned gray ere she was old. The hopes that had specially concerned her had failed
her,--all of them. She surveyed her experience, and said, weighing the result, the more need
that she should strive to avert from others the evils they might bring upon themselves, so
that, when the Lord should smite them, they, too, might be strong. The missionary had long
since left this field of labor and gone to another, and his place at Diver's Bay was unfilled
by a new preacher. The more need, then, of her. Remembering her lost child, she taught the
children of others. She taught them to read and sew and knit, and, what was more important,
taught them obedience and thankfulness, and endeavored to inspire in them some reverence and
faith. The Church did not fall into ruin there.

I wish that I might write here,--it were so easy, if it were but true!--that Bondo Emmins came
back to Diver's Bay in one of those long years during which she was looking for him, and that
he came scourged by conscience to ask forgiveness of his diabolic vengeance.

I wish that I might write,--which were far easier, if it were but fact,--that all the patience
and courage of the Pure Heart of Diver's Bay, all the constancy that sought to bring order
and decency and reverence into the cabins there, met at last with another external reward than
merely beholding, as the children grew up to their duties and she drew near to death, the results
of all her teaching; that those results were attended by another, also an external reward;
that the youth, who came down like an angel to fill her place when she was gone, had walked
into her house one morning, and surprised her, as the Angel Gabriel once surprised the world,
by his glad tidings. I wish, that, instead of kneeling down beside her grave in the sand, and
vowing there, "Oh, mother! I, who have found no mother but thee in all the world, am here,
in thy place, to strive as thou didst for the ignorant and the helpless and unclean," he had
thrown his arms around her living presence, and vowed that vow in spite of Bondo Emmins, and
all the world beside.

But it seems that the gate is strait, and the path is ever narrow, and the hill is difficult.
And the kinds of victory are various, and the badges of the conquerors are not all one. And
the pure heart can wear its pearl as purely, and more safely, in the heavens, where the white
array is spotless,--where the desolate heart shall be no more forsaken,--where the BRIDEGROOM,
who stands waiting the Bride, says, "Come, for all things are now ready!"--where the SON makes
glad. Pure Pearl of Diver's Bay! not for the cheap sake of any mortal romance will I grieve
to write that He has plucked thee from the deep to reckon thee among His pearls of price.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMILLE.

  I bore my mystic chalice unto Earth
    With vintage which no lips of hers might name;
  Only, in token of its alien birth,
    Love crowned it with his soft, immortal flame,
           And, 'mid the world's wide sound,
      Sacred reserves and silences breathed round,--
    A spell to keep it pure from low acclaim.

  With joy that dulled me to the touch of scorn,
    I served;--not knowing that of all life's deeds
  Service was first; nor that high powers are born
    In humble uses. Fragrance-folding seeds
         Must so through flowers expand,
      Then die. God witness that I blessed the Hand
   Which laid upon my heart such golden needs!

  And yet I felt, through all the blind, sweet ways
    Of life, for some clear shape its dreams to blend,--
  Some thread of holy art, to knit the days
    Each unto each, and all to some fair end,
        Which, through unmarked removes,
      Should draw me upward, even as it behooves
    One whose deep spring-tides from His heart descend.

  To swell some vast refrain beyond the sun,
    The very weed breathed music from its sod;
  And night and day in ceaseless antiphon
    Rolled off through windless arches in the broad
        Abyss.--Thou saw'st I, too,
      Would in my place have blent accord as true,
    And justified this great enshrining, God!

  Dreams!--Stain it on the bending amethyst,
    That one who came with visions of the Prime
  For guide somehow her radiant pathway missed,
    And wandered in the darkest gulf of Time.
          No deed divine thenceforth
      Stood royal in its far-related worth;
    No god, in truth, might heal the wounded chime.

  Oh, how? I darkly ask;--and if I dare
    Take up a thought from this tumultuous street
  To the forgotten Silence soaring there
    Above the hiving roofs, its calm depths meet
           My glance with no reply.
      Might I go back and spell this mystery
    In the new stillness at my mother's feet,--

  I would recall with importunings long
    That so sad soul, once pierced as with a knife,
  And cry, Forgive! Oh, think Youth's tide was strong,
    And the full torrent, shut from brain and life,
           Plunged through the heart, until
      It rocked to madness, and the o'erstrained will
    Grew wild, then weak, in the despairing strife!

  And ever I think, What warning voice should call,
    Or show me bane from food, with tedious art,
  When love--the perfect instinct, flower of all
    Divinest potencies of choice, whose part
           Was set 'mid stars and flame
      To keep the inner place of God--became
    A blind and ravening fever of the heart?

  I laugh with scorn that men should think them praised
    In women's love,--chance-flung in weary hours,
  By sickly fire to bloated worship raised!--
    O long-lost dream, so sweet of vernal flowers!
           Wherein I stood, it seemed,
      And gave a gift of queenly mark!--I dreamed
    Of Passion's joy aglow in rounded powers.

  I dreamed! The roar, the tramp, the burdened air
    Pour round their sharp and subtle mockery.
  Here go the eager-footed men; and there
    The costly beggars of the world float by;--
              Lilies, that toil nor spin,
      How should they know so well the weft of sin,
    And hide me from them with such sudden eye?

  But all the roaming crowd begins to make
    A whirl of humming shade;--for, since the day
  Is done, and there's no lower step to take,
    Life drops me here. Some rough, kind hand, I pray,
                 Thrust the sad wreck aside,
      And shut the door on it!--a little pride,
    That I may not offend who pass this way.

  And this is all!--Oh, thou wilt yet give heed!
    No soul but trusts some late redeeming care,--
  But walks the narrow plank with bitter speed,
    And, straining through the sweeping mist of air,
              In the great tempest-call,
      And greater silence deepening through it all,
    Refuses still, refuses to despair!

  Some further end, whence thou refitt'st with aim
    Bewildered souls, perhaps?--Some breath in me,
  By thee, the purest, found devoid of blame,
    Fit for large teaching?--Look!--I cannot see,--
           I can but feel!--Far off,
      Life seethes and frets,--and from its shame and scoff
    I take my broken crystal up to thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUNDRED DAYS.

PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

[Concluded.]

The most remarkable event of the "Hundred Days" was the celebrated "Champ de Mai," where Napoleon
met deputies from the Departments, and distributed eagles to representatives of his forces.
He intended it as an assembly of the French people, which should sanction and legalize his
second accession to the throne, and pledge itself, by solemn adjuration, to preserve the sovereignty
of his family. It was a day of wholesale swearing, and the deputies uttered any quantity of
oaths of eternal fidelity, which they barely kept three weeks. The distribution of the eagles
was the only real and interesting part of the performance, and the deep sympathy between both
parties was very evident. The Emperor stood in the open field, on a raised platform, from which
a broad flight of steps descended; and pages of his household were continually running up and
down, communicating with the detachments from various branches of the army, which passed in
front of him, halting for a moment to receive the eagles and give the oath to defend them.

I was present during the whole of this latter ceremony. Through the forbearance of a portion
of the Imperial Guard, into whose ranks I obtruded myself, I had a very favorable position,
and felt that in this part of the day's work there was no sham.

I would here bear testimony to the character of those veterans known as the "Old Guard." I
frequently came in contact with individuals of them, and liked so well to talk with them, that
I never lost a chance of making their acquaintance. One, who was partial to me because I was
an American, had served in this country with Rochambeau, had fought under the eye of Washington,
and was at the surrender of Cornwallis. He had borne his share in the vicissitudes of the Republic,
the Consulate, and the Empire. He was scarred with wounds, and his breast was decorated with
the cross of the Legion of Honor, which he considered an ample equivalent for all his services.
My intercourse with these old soldiers confirmed what has been said of them, that they were
singularly mild and courteous. There was a gentleness of manner about them that was remarkable.
They had seen too much service to boast of it, and they left the bragging to younger men. Terrible
as they were on the field of battle, they seemed to have adopted as a rule of conduct, that

  "In peace, there's nothing so becomes a man
  As modest stillness and humility."

On this memorable day, I saw Napoleon more distinctly than at any other time. I was frequently
present when he was reviewing troops, but either he or they were in motion, and I had to catch
a glimpse of him as opportunities offered. At this time, as he passed through the Champs Elysées,
I stood among my friends, the soldiers, who lined the way, and who suffered me to remain where
a man would not have been tolerated. He was escorted by the Horse Grenadiers of the Guard.
His four brothers preceded him in one carriage, while he sat alone in a state coach, all glass
and gold, to which pages clung wherever they could find footing. He was splendidly attired,
and wore a Spanish hat with drooping feathers. As he moved slowly through the crowd, he bowed
to the right and left, not in the hasty, abrupt way which is generally attributed to him, but
in a calm, dignified, though absent manner. His face was one not to be forgotten. I saw it
repeatedly; but whenever I bring it up, it comes before me, not as it appeared from the window
of the Tuileries, or when riding among his troops, or when standing, with folded arms or his
hands behind him, as they defiled before him; but it rises on my vision as it looked that morning,
under the nodding plumes,--smooth, massive, and so tranquil, that it seemed impossible a storm
of passion could ever ruffle it. The complexion was clear olive, without a particle of color,
and no trace was on it to indicate what agitated the man within. The repose of that marble
countenance told nothing of the past, nor of anxiety for the deadly struggle that awaited him.
The cheering sounds around him did not change it; they fell on an ear that heard them not.
His eye glanced on the multitudes; but it saw them not. There was more machinery than soul
in the recognition, as his head instinctively swayed towards them. The idol of stone was there,
joyless and impassive amidst its worshippers, taking its lifeless part in this last pageant.
But the thinking, active man was elsewhere, and returned only when he found himself in the
presence of delegated France, and in the more congenial occupation which succeeded.

Immediately after this event, all the available troops remaining in Paris were sent toward
the Belgian frontier, and in a few days were followed by the Emperor. Then came an interval
of anxious suspense, which Rumor, with her thousand tongues, occupied to the best of her ability.
I was in the country when news of the first collision arrived, and a printed sheet was sent
to the château where I was visiting, with an account of the defeat of the Prussians at Ligny
and the retreat of the British at Quatre Bras. Madame Ney was staying in the vicinity; and,
as the Marshal had taken an active part in the engagement, I was sent to communicate to her
the victory. She was ill, and I gave the message to a lady, her connection, much pleased to
be the bearer of such welcome intelligence. I returned that day to Paris, and found my schoolmates
in the highest exhilaration. Every hour brought confirmation of a decisive victory. It was
thought that the great battle of the campaign had been fought, and that the French had only
to follow up their advantage. Letters from officers were published, representing that the Allies
were thoroughly routed, and describing the conflict so minutely, that there could be no doubt
of the result. All was now joy and congratulation; and conjectures were freely made as to the
terms to be vouchsafed to the conquered, and the boundary limits which should be assigned to
the territory of France.

A day or two after this, we made a customary visit to a swimming-school on the Seine, and some
of us entered into conversation with the gendarme, or police soldier, placed there to preserve
order. He was very reserved and unwilling to say much; but, at last, when we dwelt on the recent
successes, he shook his head mournfully, and said he feared there had been some great disaster;
adding, "The Emperor is in Paris. I saw him alight from his carriage this morning, when on
duty; he had very few attendants, and it was whispered that our army had been defeated." That
my companions did not seek relief at the bottom of the river can be ascribed only to their
entire disbelief of the gendarme's story. But, as they returned home, discussing his words
at every step, fears began to steal over them when they reflected how seriously he talked and
how sorrowful he looked.

The gendarme spoke the truth. Napoleon was in Paris. His army no longer existed, and his star
had been blotted from the heavens. His plans, wonderfully conceived, had been indifferently
executed; a series of blunders, beyond his control, interrupted his combinations, and delay
in important movements, added to the necessity of meeting two enemies at the same moment, destroyed
the centralization on which he had depended for overthrowing both in succession. The orders
he sent to his Marshals were intercepted, and they were left to an uncertainty which prevented
any unity of action. The accusation of treason, sometimes brought against them, is false and
ungenerous; and the insinuations of Napoleon himself were unworthy of him. They may have erred
in judgment, but they acted as they thought expedient, and they never showed more devotion
to their country and to their chief than on the fatal day of Waterloo.

I have been twice over that field, and have heard remarks of military men, which have only
convinced me that it is easier to criticize a battle than to fight one. Had Grouchy, with his
thirty thousand men, joined the Emperor, the British would have been destroyed. But he stopped
at Wavre, to fight, as he supposed, the whole Prussian army, thinking to do good service by
keeping it from the main battle. Blücher outwitted him, and, leaving ten thousand men to deceive
and keep him in check, hurried on to turn the scale. The fate of both contending hosts rested
on the cloud of dust that arose on the eastern horizon, and the eyes of Napoleon and Wellington
watched its approach, knowing that it brought victory or defeat. The one was still precipitating
his impetuous columns on the sometimes penetrated, but never broken, squares of infantry, which
seemed rooted to the earth, and which, though torn by shot and shell, and harassed by incessant
charges of cavalry, closed their thinned ranks with an obstinacy and determination such as
he had never before encountered. The other stood amidst the growing grain, seeing his army
wasting away before those terrible assaults; and when the officers around him saw inevitable
ruin, unless the order for retreat was given, he tore up the unripened corn, and, grinding
it between his hands, groaned out, in his agony,--"Oh, that Blücher, or night, would come!"

The last time I was at Waterloo, many years ago, the guide who accompanied me told me, that,
a short time before, a man, whose appearance was that of a substantial farmer, and who was
followed by an attendant, called on him for his services. The guide went his usual round, making
his often-repeated remarks and commenting severely on Grouchy. The stranger examined the ground
attentively, and only occasionally replied, saying, "Grouchy received no orders." At last,
the servant fell back, detaining the guide, and, in a low tone, said to him, "Speak no more
about Marshal Grouchy, for that is he." The man told me, that, after that, he abstained from
saying anything offensive; but that he watched carefully the soldier's agitation, as the various
positions of the battle became apparent to him. He, doubtless, saw how little would have turned
the current of the fight, and knew that the means of doing it had been in his own hands. The
guide seemed much impressed with the deep feeling of the Marshal, and said to me, "I will never
speak ill of him again."

The battle of Waterloo is often mentioned as the sole cause of Napoleon's downfall; and it
is said, that, had he gained that day, he would have secured his throne. It seems to be forgotten
that a complete victory would have left him with weakened forces, and that he had already exhausted
the resources of France in his preparations for this one campaign; that the masses of Austria
and Russia were advancing in hot haste, which, with the rallied remains of Prussia, and the
indomitable perseverance and uncompromising hostility of England, quickened by a reverse of
her arms, would have presented an array against which he could have had no chance of success.
The hour of utter ruin would only have been procrastinated, involving still greater waste of
life, and augmenting the desolation which for so many years had been the fate of Europe.

Yes, Napoleon was in Paris,--a general without soldiers, and a sovereign without subjects.
The prestige of his name was gone; and had the Chamber of Deputies invested him with the Dictatorship,
as was suggested, it would have been "a barren sceptre in his gripe," and the utmost stretch
of power could not have collected materials to meet the impending invasion. At no period did
he show such irresolution as at this time. He tendered his abdication, and it was accepted.
He offered his services as a soldier, and they were declined. He had ceased, for the moment,
to be anything to France. Yet he lingered for days about the capital, the inhabitants of which
were too intent in gazing at the storm, ready to burst upon them, to be mindful of his existence.
There was, however, one exception. The boys were still faithful to him, and were more interested
in his position than in that of the enemy at their gates.

There was a show of resistance. The fragments of the army of Belgium gathered round Paris;
the National Guard, or militia of the city, was marched out; and the youth of the colleges
were furnished with field-pieces and artillery officers, who drilled them into very effective
cannoneers, and they took naturally to the business, pronouncing it decidedly better fun than
hard study. They were of an age which is full of animal courage, and their only fear was a
peremptory order from parents or guardians to leave college and return home. Some of my school-fellows,
anticipating such an injunction, joined the camp outside the city, and saw service enough to
talk about for the remainder of their lives.

One morning, I was at the Lyceum, where all were prepared for an immediate order to march,
and each one was making his last arrangements. No person could have supposed that these young
men expected to be engaged, within a few hours, in mortal combat. They were in the highest
spirits, and looked forward to the hoped-for battle as though it were to be the most amusing
thing imaginable. While I was there, a false report came in that Napoleon had resumed the command
of the army. The excitement instantly rose to fever-heat, and the demonstration told what hold
he still had on these his steadfast friends. From our position the rear of the army was but
a short distance, while the advanced portions of it were engaged. Versailles had been entered
by the Allies, who were attacked and driven out by the French under Vandamme. The cannonade
was at one time as continuous as the roll of a drum. Prisoners were guarded through the streets,
and wagons, conveying wounded men, were continually passing.

Stragglers from the routed army of Waterloo were to be met in all directions, many of them
disabled by their pursuers, or the fatigues of a harried retreat. Pride was forgotten in extreme
misery, and they were grateful for any attention or assistance. One of them was taken into
our institution as a servant. He had been in the army eighteen years, fifteen of which he had
served as drummer. He had been in some of the severest battles, had gone through the Russian
campaign, and was among the few of his regiment who survived the carnage of Waterloo. And yet
this man, who had been familiar with death more than half his life, and who at times talked
as though he were a perfect tornado in the field, was as arrant a poltroon as ever skulked.

After the Allied Troops entered Paris, and were divided among the inhabitants, some Prussian
cavalry soldiers were quartered on us. Collisions occasionally took place between them and
the scholars; and in one instance, one of them entered a study-room in an insulting manner,
and in consequence thereof made a progress from the top of the stairs to the bottom with a
celerity that would have done credit to his regiment in a charge. His comrades armed themselves
to avenge the indignity, and the students, eager for the fray, sallied out to meet them with
pistols and fencing-foils, the latter with buttons snapped off and points sharpened. There
was hopeful promise of a very respectable skirmish; but it was nipped in the bud by the interposition
of our peace-making instructors, aided by the authority of a Prussian officer. When the affair
was over, some wonder was expressed why our fire-eating military attendant had not given us
his professional services; and, on search being made, we found him snugly stowed away in a
hole under the stairs, where he had crept on the first announcement of hostilities. He afterwards
confessed to me that he was a coward, and that no one could imagine what he had suffered in
his agonies of fear during his various campaigns. Yet he came very near being rewarded for
extraordinary valor and coolness. His regiment was advancing on the enemy, and as he was mechanically
beating the monotonous pas de charge, not knowing whether he was on his head or his heels,
a shot cut the band by which his drum was suspended, and as it fell, he caught it, and without
stopping, held it in one hand while he continued to beat the charge with the other. An officer
of rank saw the action, and riding up, said, "Your name, brave fellow? You shall have the cross
of honor for that gallant deed." He told me he really did not know what he was doing; he was
too frightened to think about anything. But he added, that it was a pity the general was killed
in that very battle, as it robbed him of the promised decoration.

I mention this incident as an evidence of what diversified materials an army is composed, and
that the instruments of military despotism are not necessarily endowed with personal courage,
the discipline of the mass compensating for individual imperfection. It also gives evidence
that luck has much to do in the fortunes of this world, and that many a man who "bears his
blushing honors thick upon him" would as poorly stand a scrutiny as to the means by which they
were acquired, as our friend, the drummer, had he been enabled to strut about, in piping times
of peace, with a strip of red ribbon at his button-hole.

While preparations were making for the defence of Paris, and the alarmed citizens feared, what
was at one time threatened, that the defenders would be driven in, and the streets become a
scene of warfare, involving all conditions in the chances of indiscriminate massacre, the powers
that were saw the futility of resistance, and opening negotiations with the enemy, closed the
war by capitulation. Whatever relief this may have been to the people generally, it was a sad
blow to the martial ardor of my schoolmates. Their opinion of the transaction was expressed
in language by no means complimentary to their temporary rulers. To lose such an opportunity
for a fight was a height of absurdity for which treason and cowardice were inadequate terms.
Their military visions melted away, the field-pieces were wheeled off, the army officers bade
them farewell, they were required to deliver up their arms, and they found themselves back
again to their old bondage, reduced to the inglorious necessity of attending prayers and learning
lessons.

The Hundred Days were over. The Allies once more poured into France, and in their train came
back the poor, despised, antiquated Bourbons, identifying themselves with the common enemy,
and becoming a byword and a reproach, which were to cling to them until they should be driven
into hopeless banishment. The King reentered Paris, accompanied by foreign soldiers. I saw
him pass the Boulevard, and I then hastened across the Garden to await his arrival at the Tuileries,
standing near the spot where, three months before, I had seen Napoleon. The tricolor was no
longer there, but the white flag again floated over the place so full of historical recollections.
Louis XVIII soon reached this ancestral abode of his family, and having mounted, with some
difficulty and expenditure of breath, to the second story, he waddled into the balcony which
overlooked the crowd silently waiting for the expected speech, and, leaning ponderously on
the railing, he kissed his hand, and said, in a loud voice, "Good day, my children." This was
the exordiam, body, and peroration of his address, and it struck his audience so ludicrously,
that a laugh spread among them, until it became general, and all seemed in the best possible
humor. The King laughed, too, evidently regarding his reception as highly flattering. The affair
turned out well, for the multitude parted in a merry mood, considering his Majesty rather a
jolly old gentleman, and making sundry comparisons between him and the late tenant, illustrative
of the difference between King Stork and King Log.

Paris was crowded with foreign soldiers. The streets swarmed with them; their encampments filled
the public gardens; they drilled in the open squares and on the Boulevards; their sentinels
stood everywhere. Their presence was a perpetual commentary on the vanity of that glory which
is dependent on the sword. They gazed at triumphal monuments erected to commemorate battles
which had subjected their own countries to the iron rule of conquest. They stood by columns
on which the history of their defeat was cast from their captured cannon, and by arches whose
friezes told a boastful tale of their subjugation. They passed over bridges whose names reminded
them of fields which had witnessed their headlong rout. They strolled through galleries where
the masterpieces of art hung as memorials that their political existence had been dependent
on the will of a victorious foe. Attempts were made to destroy these trophies of national degradation;
but, in some instances, the skill of the architect and the fidelity of the builder were an
overmatch for the hasty ire of an incensed soldiery, and withstood the attacks until admiration
for the work brought shame on their efforts to demolish it.

But for the Parisians there was a calamity in reserve, which sank deeper into their souls than
the fluttering of hostile banners in their streets, or the clanging tread of an armed enemy
on their door-stones. It was decided that the Gallery of the Louvre should be despoiled, and
that the works of art, which had been collected from all nations, making that receptacle the
marvel of the age, should be restored to their legitimate owners. A wail went up from the universal
heart of France at this sad judgment. It was felt that this great loss would be irreparable.
Time, the soother of all sorrow, might restore her worn energies, recruit her wasted population,
cover her fields with abundance, and, turning the activity of an intelligent people into industrial
channels, clothe her with renewed wealth and power. But the magnificence of that collection,
once departed, could never come to her again; and the lover of beauty, instead of finding under
one roof whatever genius had created for the worship of the ages, would have to wander over
all Europe, seeking in isolated and widely-separated positions the riches which at the Louvre
were strewed before him in congregated prodigality. But lamentations were in vain. The miracles
of human inspiration were borne to the congenial climes which originated them, to have, in
all after time, the tale of their journeyings an inseparable appendage to their history, and
even their intrinsic merit to derive additional lustre from the perpetual boast, that they
had been considered worthy a place in the Gallery of Napoleon.

In the general amnesty which formed an article in the capitulation of Paris, there was no apprehension
that revenge would demand an atonement. But hardly had the Bourbons recommenced their reign,
when, in utter disregard of the faith of treaties, they sought satisfaction for their late
precipitate flight in assailing those who had been instrumental in causing it. Many of their
intended victims found safety in foreign lands. Labedoyère, who joined the Emperor with his
regiment, was tried and executed. Lavalette was condemned, but escaped through the heroism
of his wife and the generous devotion of three Englishmen. Ney was shot in Paris. I would dwell
a moment on his fate, not only because circumstances gave me a peculiar interest in it, but
from the fact that it had more effect in drawing a dividing line between the royal family and
the French people than any event that occurred during their reign. It was treasured up with
a hate that found no fit utterance until the memorable Three Days of 1830; and when the insurgents
stormed the Tuileries, their cries bore evidence that fifteen years had not diminished the
bitter feeling engendered by that vindictive, unnecessary, and most impolitic act.

During the Hundred Days, and shortly before the battle of Waterloo, I was, one Sunday afternoon,
in the Luxembourg Garden, where the fine weather had brought out many of the inhabitants of
that quarter. The lady I was accompanying remarked, as we walked among the crowd, "There is
Marshal Ney." He had joined the promenaders, and his object seemed to be, like that of the
others, to enjoy an hour of recreation. Probably the next time he crossed those walks was on
the way to the place of his execution, which was between the Garden and the Boulevard. At the
time of his confinement and trial at the Luxembourg Palace, the gardens were closed. I usually
passed through them twice a week, but was now obliged to go round them. Early one morning,
I stopped at the room of a medical student, in the vicinity, and, while there, heard a discharge
of musketry. We wondered at it, but could not conjecture its cause; and although we spoke of
the trial of Marshal Ney, we had so little reason to suppose that his life was in jeopardy,
that neither of us imagined that volley was his death-knell. As I continued on my way, I passed
round the Boulevard, and reaching the spot I have named, I saw a few men and women, of the
lowest class, standing together, while a sentinel paced to and fro before a wall, which was
covered with mortar, and which formed one side of the place. I turned in to the spot and inquired
what was the matter. A man replied,--"Marshal Ney has been shot here, and his body has just
been removed." I looked at the soldier, but he was gravely going through his monotonous duty,
and I knew that military rule forbade my addressing him. I looked down; the ground was wet
with blood. I turned to the wall, and seeing it marked by balls, I attempted, with my knife,
to dig out a memorial of that day's sad work, but the soldier motioned me away. I afterwards
revisited the place, but the wall had been plastered over, and no indications remained where
the death-shot had penetrated.

The sensation produced by this event was profound and permanent. Many a heart, inclined towards
the Bourbons, was alienated by it forever. Families which had rejoiced at the Restoration now
cursed it in their bitterness, and from that day dated a hostility which knew no reconciliation.
The army and the youth of France demanded, why a soldier, whose whole life had been passed
in her service, should be sacrificed to appease a race that was a stranger to the country,
and for which it had no sympathy. A gloom spread like a funeral pall over society, and even
those who had blamed the Marshal for joining the Emperor were now among his warmest defenders.
The print-shops were thronged with purchasers eager to possess his portrait and to hang it
in their homes, with a reverence like that attaching to the image of a martyred saint. Had
he died at Waterloo, as he led on the Imperial Guard to their last charge, when five horses
were shot under him, and his uniform, riddled by balls, hung about him in tatters, he would
not have had such an apotheosis as was now given him, with one simultaneous movement, by all
classes of his countrymen.

The inveterate intention of the reigning family was to obliterate every mark that bore the
impress of Napoleon. Wherever the initial of his name had been inserted on the public edifices,
it was carefully erased; his statues were broken or removed; prints of him could not be exposed
for sale; and it appeared to be their fixed determination to drive him from men's memories.
But he had left mementos which jealousy could not conceal nor petty malice destroy. His Code
was still the law of the land; the monuments of his genius were thickly scattered wherever
his dominion had extended; his mighty name was on every tongue; and as time mellowed the remembrance
of him, the good he had done survived and the evil was forgotten or extenuated.

Whoever would judge this man should consider the times which produced him and the fearful authority
he wielded. He came to take his place among the rulers of the earth, while she was rocking
with convulsions, seeking regeneration through the baptism of blood. He came as a connecting
link between anarchy and order, an agent of destiny to act his part in the great tragedy of
revolution, the end of which is not yet. His mission was to give a lesson to sovereigns and
people, to humble hereditary power, and to prove by his own career the unsubstantial character
of a government which deludes the popular will that creates it. During his captivity, he understood
the true causes of his overthrow, and talked of them with an intelligence which misfortune
had saddened down into philosophy. He saw that the secret of his reverses was not to be found
in the banded confederacy of kings, but in the forfeited sympathy of the great masses of men,
who felt with him, and moved with him, and bade him God-speed, until he abandoned the distinctive
principle which advanced him, and relinquished their affection for royal affiances and the
doubtful friendship of monarchs. His better nature was laid aside, his common sense became
merged in court etiquette, he sacrificed his conscience to his ambition, and the Man was forgotten
in the Emperor.

It is creditable to the world, that his divorce did more, perhaps, than anything else to alienate
the respect and attachment of mankind; and many who could find excuses for his gravest public
misdeeds can never forgive this impiety to the household gods.

I was most forcibly impressed with the relation between him and Josephine, in a visit I made
to Malmaison a short time subsequent to her death, which occurred soon after his first abdication.
It was the place where they had lived together, before the imperial diadem had seared his brain;
and it was the chosen spot of her retreat, when he, "the conqueror of kings, sank to the degradation
of courting their alliance." The house was as she left it. Not a thing had been moved, the
servants were still there, and the order and comfort of the establishment were as though her
return were momently expected. The plants she loved were carefully tended, and her particular
favorites were affectionately pointed out. The old domestic who acted as my guide spoke low,
as if afraid of disturbing her repose, or as if the sanctity of death still pervaded the apartments.
He could not mention her without emotion; and he told enough of her quiet, unobtrusive life,
of her kindness to the poor, of her gentleness to all about her, to account for the devotion
of her dependants. The evidences of her refined taste were everywhere, and there were tokens
that her love for her husband had survived his injustice and desertion. After his second marriage,
he occasionally visited her, and she never allowed anything to be disturbed which reminded
her that he had been there. Books were lying open on the table as he had left them; the chair
on which he sat was still where he had arisen from it; the flower he had plucked withered where
he had dropped it. Every article he had touched was sacred, and remained unprofaned by other
hands. Doubtless, long after he had returned to his brilliant capital, and all remembrance
of her was lost in the glittering court assembled about the fair-haired daughter of Austria,
that lone woman wandered, in solitary sadness, through the places which had been hallowed by
his presence, and gazed on the senseless objects consecrated by his passing attention.

After his last abdication, he retired once more to Malmaison, where he passed the few days
that remained, until he bade a final farewell to the scenes which he had known at the dawn
of his prosperity. No man can tell his thoughts during those lonely hours. His wife was in
the palace of her ancestors, and his child was to know him no more. He could hear the din of
marching soldiers, and the roar of distant battle, but they were nothing to him now. His wand
was broken, the spell was over, the spirits that ministered to him had vanished, and the enchanter
was left powerless and alone. But, in the still watches of the night, a familiar form may have
stood beside him, and a well-known voice again whispered to him in the kindly tones of by-gone
years. The crown, the sceptre, the imperial purple, the long line of kings, for which he had
renounced a woman worth them all, must have faded from his memory in the swarming recollections
of his once happy home. He could not look around him without seeing in every object an accusing
angel; and if a human heart throbbed in his bosom, retribution came before death.

Yet call him not up for judgment, without reflecting that his awful elevation and the gigantic
task he had assumed had perverted a heart naturally kind and affectionate, and left him little
leisure to devote to the virtues which decorate domestic life. The numberless anecdotes related
of him, the charm with which he won to himself all whom he attempted to conciliate, the warm
attachment of those immediately about him, tend to the belief that there was much of good in
him. But his eye was continually fixed on the star he saw blazing before him, and in his efforts
to follow its guidance, he heeded not the victims he crushed in his onward progress. He considered
men as mere instruments to extend his dominion, and he used them with wasteful expenditure,
to advance his projects or to secure his conquests. But he was not cruel, nor was he steeled
to human misery. Had he been what he is sometimes represented, he never could have retained
the ascendency over the minds of his followers, which, regardless of defeat and suffering and
death, lived on when even hope had gone.

