John Leland, the father of the English antiquaries, was born in London, about the end of the
reign of Henry VII. Cambridge. From this university he removed to All Souls, Oxford, where
he paid particular attention to the Greek language. He afterwards went to Paris, where he cultivated
the acquaintance of the principal scholars of the age, and could probably number among his
correspondents the illustrious names of Buddoeus, Erasmus, the Stephani, Faber, and Turnebus;
in this city he perfected himself in the knowledge of the Latin and Greek tongues, to which
he afterwards added that of several modern languages. On his return to England he took orders,
and was appointed one of the chaplains to Henry VIII., who gave him the rectory of Popelay,
in the marshes of Calais, appointed him his library keeper, and conferred on him the title
of Royal Antiquary, which no other person in this kingdom, before, or after possessed. In this
character his majesty in 1533 granted him a commission, empowering him to search after England's
antiquities, and peruse the libraries of all cathedrals, abbeys, priories, colleges, &c., as
also all the places wherein records, writings, and whatever else was lodged that related to
antiquity.

In this research Leland was occupied above six years in travelling through England, and in
visiting all the remains of ancient buildings and monuments of every kind. On its completion,
he hastened to the metropolis, to lay at the feet of his sovereign the result of his labours,
which he presented to Henry, under the title of a "New Year's Gift,"[4] in which he says, "I
have so traviled yn your dominions booth by the se costes and the midle partes, sparing nother
labor nor costes, by the space of these vi. yeres paste, that there is almoste nother cape,
nor bay, haven, creke or peers, river or confluence of rivers, breches, watchies, lakes, meres,
fenny waters, montagnes, valleis, mores, hethes, forestes, chases wooddes, cities, burges,
castelles, principale manor placis, monasteries, and colleges, but I have seene them; and notid
yn so doing a hole worlde of thinges very memorable."

At the dissolution of the monasteries, Leland made application to Secretary Cromwell, to entreat
his assistance in getting the MSS. they contained sent to the king's library. In 1542 Henry
presented him with the valuable rectory of Hasely, in Oxfordshire; the year following he preferred
him to a canonry of King's college, now Christchurch, Oxford, and about the same time collated
him to a prebend in the church of Sarum. As his duties in the church did not require much active
service, he retired with his collections to his house in London, where he sat about digesting
them, and preparing the publication he had promised to the world; but either his intense application,
or some other cause, brought upon him a total derangement of mind, and after lingering two
years in this state, he died on the 18th of April, 1552.

The writings of Leland are numerous; in his lifetime he published several Latin and Greek poems,
and some tracts on antiquarian subjects. From these collections Hall published, in 1709, "Commentarii
de Scriptoribus Brittanicis." "The Itinerary of John Leland, Antiquary," was published by the
celebrated Hearne, at Oxford, in nine volumes, 8vo., 1710, of which a second edition was printed
in 1745, with considerable improvements and additions. The same editor published "Joannis Lelandi
Antiquarii de Rebus Brittanicis Collectanea." in six volumes, Oxon. 1716, 8vo.

BIOS.

[Footnote 4: This was published by Bale in 1549, 8vo.]

       *       *       *       *      *

THE SELECTOR AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORAL ISLANDS.

[In a recent Number of the MIRROR we quoted from Mr. Montgomery's Pelican Island a beautiful
description of the formation of coral reefs or rocks; and we are now induced to resume our
extracts from this soul stirring poem, with the following description of the process by which
these reefs or rocks become beautiful and picturesque islands. Mr. Montgomery's poetical talent
is altogether of the highest order, or, to use a familiar phrase, his Pelican Island is "a
gem of the first water." How exquisite is the following picture of creation!]

  Here was the infancy of life, the age
  Of gold in that green isle, itself new-born,
  And all upon it in the prime of being,
  Love, hope, and promise, 'twas in miniature
  A world unsoil'd by sin; a Paradise
  Where Death had not yet enter'd; Bliss had newly
  Alighted, and shut close his rainbow wings,
  To rest at ease, nor dread intruding ill.
  Plants of superior growth now sprang apace,
  With moon-like blossoms crown'd, or starry glories;
  Light flexible shrubs among the greenwood play'd
  Fantastic freaks,--they crept, they climb'd, they budded,
  And hung their flowers and berries in the sun;
  As the breeze taught, they danced, they sung, they twined
  Their sprays in bowers, or spread the ground with net-work.
  Such was the locust with its hydra boughs,
  A hundred heads on one stupendous trunk;
  And such the mangrove, which, at full-moon flood,
  Appear'd itself a wood upon the waters,
  But when the tide left bare its upright roots,
  A wood on piles suspended in the air;
  Such too the Indian fig, that built itself
  Into a sylvan temple, arch'd aloof
  With airy aisles and living colonnades,
  Where nations might have worshipp'd God in peace.
  From year to year their fruits ungather'd fell;
  Not lost, but quickening where they lay, they struck
  Root downward, and brake forth on every hand,
  Till the strong saplings, rank and file, stood up,
  A mighty army, which o'erran the isle,
  And changed the wilderness into a forest.
  All this appear'd accomplish'd in the space
  Between the morning and the evening star:
  So, in his third day's work, Jehovah spake,
  And Earth, an infant, naked as she came
  Out of the womb of chaos, straight put on
  Her beautiful attire, and deck'd her robe
  Of verdure with ten thousand glorious flowers,
  Exhaling incense; crown'd her mountain-heads
  With cedars, train'd her vines around their girdles,
  And pour'd spontaneous harvests at their feet.
  Nor were those woods without inhabitants
  Besides the ephemera of earth and air;
  --Where glid the sunbeams through the latticed boughs,
  And fell like dew-drops on the spangled ground,
  To light the diamond-beetle on his way;
  --Where cheerful openings let the sky look down
  Into the very heart of solitude,
  On little garden-pots of social flowers,
  That crowded from the shades to peep at daylight;
  --Or where unpermeable foliage made
  Midnight at noon, and chill, damp horror reign'd
  O'er dead, fall'n leaves and slimy funguses;
  --Reptiles were quicken'd into various birth.
  Loathsome, unsightly, swoln to obscene bulk,
  Lurk'd the dark toad beneath the infected turf;
  The slow-worm crawl'd, the light cameleon climb'd,
  And changed his colour as his pace he changed;
  The nimble lizard ran from bough to bough,
  Glancing through light, in shadow disappearing;
  The scorpion, many-eyed, with sting of fire,
  Bred there,--the legion-fiend of creeping things;
  Terribly beautiful, the serpent lay,
  Wreath'd like a coronet of gold and jewels,
  Fit for a tyrant's brow; anon he flew
  Straight as an arrow shot from his own rings,
  And struck his victim, shrieking ere it went
  Down his strain'd throat, that open sepulchre.
  Amphibious monsters haunted the lagoon;
  The hippopotamus, amidst the flood,
  Flexile and active as the smallest swimmer;
  But on the bank, ill balanced and infirm,
  He grazed the herbage, with huge, head declined,
  Or lean'd to rest against some ancient tree.
  The crocodile, the dragon of the waters,
  In iron panoply, fell as the plague,
  And merciless as famine, cranch'd his prey,
  While, from his jaws, with dreadful fangs all serried,
  The life-blood dyed the waves with deadly streams.
  The seal and the sea-lion, from the gulf
  Came forth, and couching with their little ones.
  Slept on the shelving rocks that girt the shores,
  Securing prompt retreat from sudden danger;
  The pregnant turtle, stealing out at eve,
  With anxious eye, and trembling heart, explored
  The loneliest coves, and in the loose warm sand
  Deposited her eggs, which the sun hatch'd:
  Hence the young brood, that never knew a parent,
  Unburrow'd and by instinct sought the sea;
  Nature herself, with her own gentle hand,
  Dropping them one by one into the flood,
  And laughing to behold their antic joy,
  When launch'd in their maternal element.
  Some sought their food among the finny shoals,
  Swift darting from the clouds, emerging soon
  With slender captives glittering in their beaks;
  These in recesses of steep crags constructed
  Their eyries inaccessible, and train'd
  Their hardy broods to forage in all weathers;
  Others, more gorgeously apparell'd, dwelt
  Among the woods, on Nature's dainties feeding,
  Herbs, seeds, and roots; or, ever on the wing,
  Pursuing insects through the boundless air:
  In hollow trees or thickets these conceal'd
  Their exquisitely woven nests; where lay
  Their callow offspring, quiet as the down
  On their own breasts, till from her search the dam
  With laden bill return'd, and shared the meal
  Among the clamorous suppliants, all agape;
  Then, cowering o'er them with expanded wings,
  She felt how sweet it is to be a mother.
  Of these, a few, with melody untaught,
  Turn'd all the air to music within hearing,
  Themselves unseen; while bolder quiristers
  On loftier branches strain'd their clarion-pipes,
  And made the forest echo to their screams
  Discordant,--yet there was no discord there,
  But temper'd harmony: all tones combining,
  In the rich confluence often thousand tongues,
  To tell of joy and to inspire it. Who
  Could hear such concert, and not join in chorus?
  Not I;--sometimes entranced, I seem'd to float
  Upon a buoyant sea of sounds: again
  With curious ear I tried to disentangle
  The maze of voices, and with eye as nice
  To single out each minstrel, and pursue
  His little song through all its labyrinth,
  Till my soul enter'd into him, and felt
  Every vibration of his thrilling throat,
  Pulse of his heart, and flutter of his pinions.
  Often, as one among the multitude,
  I sang from very fulness of delight;
  Now like a winged fisher of the sea,
  Now a recluse among the woods,--enjoying
  The bliss of all at once, or each in turn.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAPIDS OF NIAGARA.

The Rapids begin about half a mile above the cataract; and although the breadth of the river
might at first make them appear of little importance, a nearer inspection will convince the
stranger of their actual size, and the terrific danger of the passage. The inhabitants of the
neighbourhood regard it as certain death to get once involved in them; and that, not merely
because all escape from the cataract would be hopeless, but because the violent force of the
water among the rocks in the channel, would instantly dash the bones of a man in pieces. Instances
are on record of persons being carried down by the stream; indeed there was an instance of
two men carried over in March last; but no one is known to have ever survived. Indeed, it is
very rare that the bodies are found; as the depth of the gulf below the cataract, and the tumultuous
agitation of the eddies, whirlpools, and counter currents, render it difficult for any thing
once sunk to rise again; while the general course of the water is so rapid, that it is soon
hurried far down the stream. The large logs which are brought down in great numbers during
the spring, bear sufficient testimony to these remarks. Wild ducks, geese, &c. are frequently
precipitated over the cataract, and generally re-appear either dead, or with their legs or
wings broken. Some say that water-fowl avoid the place when able to escape, but that the ice
on the shores of the river above often prevents them from obtaining food, and that they are
carried down from mere inability to fly; while others assert that, they are sometimes seen
voluntarily riding among the rapids, and, after descending half-way down the cataract, taking
wing, and returning to repeat their dangerous amusement.--American Work.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRIDAL, CANZONET.

  Sir Knight, heed not the clarion's call,
  From hill, or from valley, or turretted hall;
  Cease, holy Friar, cease for awhile
  The anthem that swells through the fretted aisle;
  Forester bold, to the bugle's sound
  Listen no longer, though gaily wound,
  But haste to the bridal, haste away,
  Where love's rebeck is tuned to a sweeter lay.

  Sir Knight, Sir Knight, no longer twine
  The laurel-leaf o'er that bold brow of thine;
  Friar, to-day from thy temples tear
  The ivy garland that sages wear;
  To-day, bold Forester, cast aside
  Thy oak-leaf crown, the woodland's pride,
  And bind round your brows the myrtle gay,
  While the rebeck resounds love's sweetest lays.

  Sir Knight, urge not now the gallant steed
  O'er the plains that to honour and glory lead;
  Friar, forget thy order's vow,
  And pace not the gloomy cloisters now.
  Chase no longer with bow and with spear,
  Forester bold, the dappled deer,
  But tread me a measure as light and gay
  As ever kept lime to the rebeck's lay.

Neele's Romance of History.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Walton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING.

Sterne pitied the man who could travel from Dan to Beersheba, and say all "was barren:" however
delighted travellers or tourists may be on their journey, it is surprising how few details
are preserved in their memory. This occasioned Dr. Johnson to remark, in his "Tour to the Hebrides,"
how much the lapse even "of a few hours takes from the certainty of knowledge, and the distinctness
of imagery;" and that "those who trust to memory what cannot be safely trusted but to the eye,
must tell by guess, what a few hours before they had known with certainty." We were never more
convinced of the importance of these observations than after our first visit to the dock-yard,
at Portsmouth. In collating some little memoranda made on the spot, we referred to our party,
(seven in number) on our return to the inn, for the extent of the dock-yard: not one of them
could give a correct answer, though all had just heard it detailed and explained with accuracy.
Dr. Kitchener may well recommend tourists to walk about with note-books in their hands! and
such inadvertence as the preceding almost warrants the oddity of his suggestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTTOES FOR DECANTER LABELS.

Arridet PORTus? subeat non causa doloris.

SumebatiS HERI? non dolor est hodie.

Hic liquor est molLIS BONus, aptus ad omnia laeta.

Oppida ne CALCA VALLAta ad praelia, quoerens, Sisonitum capias ecce tibi est Volupe.

Dum lucet CLARE Te magis iste trahat.

Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

MALARIA.

Dr. Gregory, father of the late celebrated professor in Edinburgh, when a student in a part
of Germany where malaria prevailed, from being a philosopher and living low, drinking only
water, was seized with intermittent fever, when his jolly companions, who ate and drank freely,
escaped. If brandy or other stimulants are taken previous to exposure to malaria, intermittent
fever is generally prevented. Such are the opinions of the doctor, and if Dr. Macculloch be
right, we suggest the establishment of a brandy vault at each angle of the parks, that every
passenger may prepare himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD HOWE

When the late Lord Howe was a captain, a lieutenant, not remarkable for courage or presence
of mind in dangers (common fame had brought some imputation upon his character) ran to the
great cabin and informed his commander that the ship was on fire near the gun-room. Soon after
this he returned exclaiming, "You need not be afraid as the fire is extinguished." "Afraid!"
replied Captain H. a little nettled, "how does a man feel, Sir, when he is afraid? I need not
ask how he looks."

       *       *       *       *       *

BACKGAMMON BOARDS.

We frequently find backgammon boards with backs lettered as if they were two folio volumes.
The origin of it was thus; Eudes, bishop of Sully, forbade his clergy to play at chess. As
they were resolved not to obey the commandment, and yet dared not have a chess-board seen in
their houses or cloisters, they had them bound and lettered as books, and played at night,
before they went to bed, instead of reading the New Testament or the Lives of the Saints; and
the monks called the draft or chess-board their wooden gospels. They had also drinking vessels
bound to resemble the breviary, and were found drinking, when it was supposed they were at
prayer.--Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE OF THE COUNTRY.

Country people will tell you that they like the country, and detest the town, although their
enjoyments are of a kind which may be obtained in far greater perfection in the latter than
in the former. The only person I ever knew who was honest in this respect, was a gentleman,
the possessor of a beautiful seat, in a beautiful country, when he avowed his opinion, that
there was "no garden like Covent-garden, and no flower like a cauliflower."

C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Morning Chronicle, Nov. 20, in noticing the funeral of the late Mr. Sale, says, "At a little
after three o'clock, the body of the lamented gentleman entered the church."