Pity for and indignation against the workers fill one's soul at the spectacle of the ridiculous
strike methods so often employed and that as often frustrate the possible success of every
large labor war. Or is it not laughable, if it were not so deadly serious, that the producers
publicly discuss for months in advance where and when they might strike, and therewith give
the enemy a chance to prepare his means of combat. For months the papers of the money power
bring long interviews with labor leaders, giving detailed descriptions of the ways and means
of the proposed strikes, or the results of negotiations with this or that mine magnate. The
more often these negotiations are reported, the more glory to the so-called leaders, for the
more often their names appear in the papers; the more "reasonable" the utterances of these
gentlemen (which means that they are neither fish nor flesh, neither warm nor cold), the surer
they grow of the sympathy of the most reactionary element in the country or of an invitation
to the White House to join the Chief Magistrate at dinner. Labor leaders of such caliber fail
to consider that every strike is a labor event upon the success or failure of which thousands
of lives depend; rather do they see in it an opportunity to push their own insignificant personalities
into prominence. Instead of leading their organized hosts to victory, they disclose their superficiality
in their zeal not to injure their reputation for "respectability."

The workingmen? Be it victory or defeat, they must take up the reins of every strike themselves;
as it is, they play the dupes of the shrewd attorneys on both sides, unaware of the price the
trickery and cunning of these men cost them.

As I said before, the unions negotiate strikes for days and weeks and months beforehand, even
allowing their men to work overtime in order to produce all the commodities to continue business
while the strike is going on.

The printers, for instance, worked late into the night on magazines that were being got ready
four months in advance, and the miners who discussed the strike so long until every remnant
of enthusiasm was gone.

What wonder, then, that strikes fail? As long as the employer is in a position to say, "Strike
if you will; I do not need you; I can fill my orders; I know that hunger will drive you back
into the mine and factory, I can wait," there is no hope for the success of the strike.

Such have been the results of the legal trade union methods.

The history of the labor struggle of this country shows an incident that warrants the hope
for an energetic, revolutionary trade union agitation. That is the eight-hour movement of 1886
which culminated in the death of five labor leaders. That movement contained the true element
of the proletarian and revolutionary spirit, the lack of which makes organized labor of to-day
a ball in the hands of selfish aspirants, know-nothings and politicians.

That which specifically characterized the event of 1886 as a revolutionary factor was the fact
that the eight-hour workday could never be accomplished through lobbying with politicians,
but through the direct and economic weapon, the general strike.

The desire to demonstrate the efficacy of this weapon gave birth to the idea of celebrating
the first of May as an appropriate day for Labor's festival. On that day the workingmen were
to give the first practical demonstration of the power of the general strike as an at least
one-day protest against oppression and tyranny, and which day were gradually to become the
means for the final overthrow of economic and social dependence.

One may suggest that the tragedy of the 11th of November of 1887 has stamped the general strike
as a futile method, but this is not true. The battle of liberation cannot be put a stop to
by the brutality and rascality of the ruling powers. The vicious anger and the wild hatred
that strangled our brothers in Chicago are the safest guarantee that their activity struck
a potentially fatal blow to government and capital.

Neither Mr. Mitchell nor Mr. Gompers run the risk of dying upon the gallows of sacred capitalistic
Justitia; her ladyship is not at all as blind as some suppose her to be; on the contrary, she
has a very keen eye for all that may prove beneficial or dangerous to the society that draws
its subsistence from the lives' blood of its people. She has quite made up her mind that the
gentlemen in the ranks of Labor to-day lead the people about in a circle and never will urge
them out into the open, towards liberation.

(To be continued.)

REFINED CRUELTY.

By ANNA MERCY.

CIVILIZATION has eliminated none of the qualities that marked the age of savagery. The cruelties
which especially characterized primitive man is exercised as much to-day as in the days of
cannibalism.

Civilization has been the refining agent of our qualities. Just as a number of chemicals put
into a crucible are refined by a certain acid, while yet the original substances remain, though
in different forms, so has civilization refined and remolded the crude elements of our nature,
leaving the essence of our primitive qualities the same.

The subtlety with which cruelty is exercised to-day makes of it a far-reaching and far more
destructive force than formerly. Instead of attacking our neighbors with sticks and stones
and tomahawks, and forcing them into captivity in order that they may work for us, we obtain
the same or even better results by numerous subtle methods. We instill respect for law, wealth
and morality. We withdraw the land and other natural resources from general use. With a show
of generous sentiment, we allow the lambs we have shorn to assist us in the shearing of other
lambs.

Every morning and every evening we see a long procession of men and women going or coming from
the work, at which they have given up their life force for the sake of a mere pittance. Look
at these men and women! There they go, evidently free! No shackles are on their hands or feet,
no overseer keeps them in check by club or gun. There they go voluntarily to their prison factories,
offices, stores, in the morning; and in the evening, when the glorious sun is hidden from sight,
they come out again, haggard and worn, to creep to their prison homes.

When the savage desires to rob you, he may attempt to strangle and maim you. But the civilized
man scorns such crude methods. He builds cheap tenements in which you may gradually and surely
choke to death; and not satisfied with that, he, with a great show of kindness, prepares your
foods for you, that they may slowly, very slowly, but surely, hasten your deliverance. Babies
are not frankly murdered any more, but they are served with nice, adulterated milk, which accomplishes
the same purpose in a quieter way.

Under the name of law many atrocious crimes are committed. Imprisonment, capital punishment
and war are yet crude in their methods. They are still susceptible of more refining. Here cruelty
has rather a thin garment on and needs to be covered up a little more.

Even in our every-day relations with each other, we use many and varied forms of refined cruelty.
When displeased, we no longer beat each other, but we use the subtler forces of sarcasm, irony,
slander, neglect. We regard directness a rudeness, when in reality it is the greatest kindness
imaginable. Instead of being positive and direct in our dealings with each other, we constantly
exercise a passive cruelty, in other words, the cruelty of refinement. We are evasive, delusive,
subdued, falsified. But we deceive with dignity, tell falsehoods fluently, use words and cold
behavior as daggers.

To-day we do not turn away an unwelcome visitor, but we announce that we are not at home; or
we slander him behind his back. When we love we pretend to be modest and indifferent, while,
in an indirect way, we attempt to build walls around the person we love. There is nothing free
in the expression of our emotions, for we are subdued, crushed; we are civilized!

Everything is sham and hypocrisy, and hidden daggers are everywhere, in one form or another.
These daggers are concealed under kindness, charity, benevolence, morality, law, and are, therefore,
difficult to deal with. The blades are thrust into the back; you can feel them, but you cannot
grapple with them.

Our inherent cruelty is best illustrated in the treatment we give those who are absolutely
in our power--little children and the dumb animals. With what authority do we elicit respect
and obedience from our little people! With rod in hand and with venomous tongues we begin the
process of subjugating and civilizing our little free, emotional people. In the name of "their
highest good" do we mould them to be actors, that they may properly enact the tragedy of life
as we had enacted it before them!

The dumb animals receive the cream of our refined cruelty. In order to appear civilized, we
drive in carriages pulled by horses whose spinal columns have been docked, whose necks are
held stiff by tight check reins, whose eyes are blinded by "fashionable" devices.

There used to be cannibalism and human sacrifices; there used to be religious prostitution
and the murder of weak children and of girls; there used to be bloody revenge and the slaughter
of whole populations, judicial tortures, quarterings, burnings at the stake, the lash, and
slavery, which have disappeared. But if we have outlived these dreadful customs and institutions,
this does not prove that there do not exist institutions and customs amongst us which have
become as abhorrent to enlightened reason and conscience as those which have in their time
been abolished and have become for us only a dreadful remembrance. The way of human perfecting
is endless, and at every moment of historical life there are superstitions, deceits, pernicious
and evil institutions already outlived by men and belonging to the past; there are others which
appear to us in the far mists of the future; and there are some which we are now living through
and whose over-living forms the object of our life. Such in our time is capital punishment
and all punishment in general. Such is prostitution, such is the work of militarism, war, and
such is the nearest and most obvious evil, private property in land.

"THE JUNGLE."

A Recension by VERITAS.

"THE JUNGLE," a recent story by Upton Sinclair, is a nightmare of horrors, of which the worst
horror is that it is not a phantom of the night, but claims to be true history of one phase
of our twentieth-century civilization. Nothing but the book itself could represent its own
tragic power. In my opinion it is the most terrible book ever written.

It is for the most part a tale of the abattoirs, those unspeakable survivals in our Christendom
in which man reeks his savage and sensual will on the lesser animals; and indirectly it is
a story of the moral abattoirs of politics, economics, society, religion and the home, where
the victims are of the species human, and where man's inhumanity to man is as selfish and relentless
as his age-long cruelty to his brothers and sisters just behind him in the great procession.

Possibly the title is inappropriate. There is a "law of the pack," which is observed in the
genuine jungle, but these human beasts appear to have all of the jungle's vices and few of
its virtues. The author might have called his history, "The Slaughter House," or, perhaps,
plain "Hell."

It is a common saying about a packing house, "We use all of the hog except the squeal." This
author uses the squeal, or, rather, the wild death shrieks of agony of the ten millions of
living creatures tortured to death every year in Chicago and the other tens of millions elsewhere,
to pander to the old brutal, inhuman thirst of humanity for a diet of blood. The billions of
the slain have found a voice at last, and if I mistake not this cry of anguish from the "killing-beds"
shall not sound on until men, whose ancestors once were cannibals, shall cease to devour even
the corpses of their murdered animal relatives. But while "The Jungle" will undoubtedly make
more vegetarians, it would take more than the practice of universal vegetarianism to cause
the book to fulfil its mission; for this is a story of Civilization's Inferno and of the crisis
of the world, a recital of conditions for which, when once comprehended, there can be no remedy
but the revolution of revolutions, the event toward which the ages ran, the establishment of
a genuine political, industrial and social democracy.[2]

If the story be dramatized and Mrs. Fiske take the part of Ona, her presentation will make
Tess seem like a pastoral idyll in comparison.

The book is great even from a political standpoint.

But more than this, it is a great moral appeal. Not in Victor Hugo or Charles Dickens does
the moral passion burn with purer or intenser light than in these pages.

I should not advise children or very delicately constituted women to read it.

I have said it is a book of horrors. I started to mark the passages of peculiar tragedy and
found that I was marking every page, and yet it is a justifiable book and a necessary book.

But the worst of the story is a tale of the condition of the workers at Packingtown and elsewhere.
It is the story of strong men who justly hated their work; of men, for no fault of their own,
cast out in middle life to die; of weeping children driven with whips to their ignoble toil;
of disease-producing conditions in winter, only surpassed by the deadly summer; of people working
with their feet upon the ice and their heads enveloped in hot steam; of the perpetual stench
which infests their nostrils, the sores which universally covered their bodies; of the terrible
pace set by the continual "speeding up" of the pace makers, goaded to a pitch of frenzy; of
accidents commonplace in every family; of the garbage pile of refuse from the tables of more
fortunate citizens, from which many were forced to satisfy their hunger; of the terrors of
the black list, the shut-down, the strike and the lockout; and of the universal swindle, whether
a man bought a house, or doctored tea, coffee, sugar or flour.

It is still further a story of the moral enormities and monstrosities of the almost universal
graft, "the plants honeycombed with rottenness.

When the men were set to perform some peculiarly immoral act, they would say, "Now we are working
for the church," referring to the benefactions of the proprietors to religious institutions.

It tells the story of the training of the children in vice, of girls forced into immorality,
so that a girl without virtue would stand a better chance than a decent one. It is a tale of
the terrible ending of old Antanas by saltpeter poisoning; of Jonas, no one knows how, possibly
he fell into the vats; of little Kristoforas by convulsions; of little Antanas by falling into
a pit before the door of his house; of Marija, in a house of shame; of Stanislovas, who was
eaten by rats; and of beautiful little Ona, to the description of whose ending no other than
the author's pen could do justice.

The book shows how men graft everywhere, not only in the packing house, but how the slime of
the serpent is over almost all of our modern commercial and political practises.

No one can justly hold the meat kings responsible for all of this.

Nothing less than a thorough reconstruction of our whole social organism will suffice. Palliative
philanthropy is, as the author says, "like standing upon the brink of the pit of hell and throwing
snow balls in to lower the temperature."

"The Jungle" is the boiling over of our social volcano and shows us what is in it. It is a
danger signal!

We are all indicted and must stand our trial. There rests upon us the obligation to ascertain
the facts. The author of "The Jungle" lived in Packingtown for months, and the eminently respectable
publishers who are now issuing the book sent a shrewd lawyer to Chicago to report as to whether
the statements in it were exaggerated, and his report confirmed the assertions of the author.

This book is a call to immediate action.

The Lithuanian hero found his solution of the problems suggested in Socialism. The solution
lies either in that direction or in something better, and it behooves those who warn us against
Socialistic experiments to tell us if they know of any other effective remedy. Surely all thoughtful
men should study these theories of social redemption and learn why their advocates claim that
putting them in practice would modify or abolish the evils of our modern conditions.

"The masters, lords and rulers of all lands," the thinkers and workers of our time must speedily
give themselves to the understanding and application of some adequate remedy, or there will
be blood, woe and tears almost without end, "when this dumb terror shall reply to God, after
the silence of the centuries."

FOOTNOTE:

[2] Genuine or not genuine: we live right now in a democracy. If, in spite of that, such diabolical
crimes as Sinclair describes them are committed daily, then this only proves that democracy
is no panacea for them. Why should it, if criminals of the Armour kind realize profits out
of their wholesale poisoning of such dimensions that they can easily buy all the glory of the
people's sovereignty.--Editor.

THE GAME IS UP.

By SADAKICHI HARTMANN.

"HELLO, Morrison, may I come in?" The door stood slightly ajar.

Morrison came to the door--the complexion of his face was sallow and his eyes had a peculiar
look--he recognized his visitor, hesitated for a moment whether he should admit him, then opened
the door and made a sort of mock courtesy.

"Cleaning up?" the tall, lean man asked as he entered the little hall room.

"Yes," and a wistful smile glided over Morrison's pale face; "cleaning up for good."

The room had a peculiar appearance. There was no disorder and yet a lot of things were lying
about; it looked as if the lodger intended to go away on a long journey and had tried to straighten
up matters previous to his departure. The visitor gazed curiously about the room. He had a
strange foreboding, but forced himself to ask in a jocular mood: "Going to Egypt again?"

"Farther than that this time, but it won't take so long; the journey I am contemplating will
be over by to-morrow evening, I hope."

"What do you mean?"

"The game is up."

The tall, lean man made no immediate reply, he merely gazed steadily into the face of his friend.
He had always suspected that it would come to this some day. He really wondered that Morrison
had not done it long ago. If any man had a right to dispose of his life it was surely Morrison.
He had endured more than most human beings. His case was absolutely hopeless.

"Is there no way out of it?"

Morrison shook his head. He wanted to say something, but his voice failed him. He stepped to
the dresser near the window, looked into the mirror and arranged his faded, threadbare tie.
It was pitiful to see how shabbily he was dressed. He no longer set the fashion as in his days
of success, years ago in Boston.

"Would money help you?" and the tall, lean visitor fumbled in his pockets. Although fairly
well dressed, he was hard up most of the time and only ventured to broach the subject as he
just happened to have a few dollars to spare that day.

