Whitelocke desired her Majesty to give him a copy of her objections. She told him, they were
only a few things which she had written with her own hand, upon her apprehension of the articles,
and that he should have them in writing; but she desired him not to acquaint any person here
with this conference.

March 10, 1653.

[SN: Whitelocke's despatches to England.]

Upon yesterday's conference with the Queen, Whitelocke wrote the passages thereof at large
to Thurloe, to be communicated to the Council in England, and to pray their direction in some
points which are set down thus in his letters:--

    "I shall desire to know the pleasure of my Lord Protector and
    Council, whether, in case I shall conclude those articles of amity
    and commerce, omitting the second, fifth, and seventh articles, if
    his Highness will be pleased to approve thereof. I confess my humble
    opinion is (unless I receive commands to the contrary) that in case
    the peace be concluded between us and Holland, and Denmark included,
    it will be no disadvantage to us to conclude the alliance here,
    omitting the second, fifth, and that part of the seventh article
    against which her Majesty objected, if she shall insist upon it.

    "Another point wherein I pray direction is upon the sixteenth
    article of your treaty with the Dutch, that either Commonwealth
    shall be comprehended, if they desire it, in treaties with other
    Princes, and notice to be given of such treaties; whether in case
    your treaty with the Dutch shall be agreed, that then notice ought
    to be given to them of the treaty with the Queen of Sweden, and the
    Dutch to be offered to be comprehended therein; or whether, the
    treaty here being begun before that with the Dutch concluded, there
    will be any cause to give such notice to them, or to give notice to
    the Queen of your treaty with the Dutch; which you will be pleased
    to consider.

    "I am very willing to hasten homewards when I may obtain my Lord's
    order; and that it will be no prejudice here to your service, as I
    conceive such a conclusion would not at all be.

    "I presume you have heard of the news at Antwerp, which is very
    fresh here this week, that the Archduke hath imprisoned the Duke of
    Lorraine in the castle of Antwerp, which caused the gates of the
    town to be shut; and that hath occasioned to your friends here the
    loss of the comfort of this week's letters from England, the post
    being stayed there, as I was certified from your Resident at
    Hamburg."

Many despatches were made by Whitelocke to his friends in England, as his constant course was.

March 11, 1653.

[SN: Admiral Oxenstiern visits Whitelocke.]

The Ricks-Admiral visited Whitelocke. He discoursed of the treaty here, and said that the Queen
had not yet informed the Council of it in particular. He much inquired of the nobility of England,
of the Earls and Barons, and of their privileges, and what rank their children had, and of
the several orders of knights, and of their original; in which matters Whitelocke was able
to give him some satisfaction. He told Whitelocke that the Duke of Lorraine was imprisoned
for conspiring with the Count de Bassigni to betray three strong towns to the King of France.

[SN: Interview with Prince Adolphus.]

Whitelocke visited Prince Adolphus, who also discoursed of his business, as others did. Whitelocke
told him of his long being here without any answer. The Prince said, the Queen's designs to
introduce a mutation might cause it. Whitelocke said he believed that the amity of England
deserved so much regard as to be embraced; and that it would be all one whether the treaty
should be agreed upon by the Queen or by her successor, for it concerned the people and State
of both nations; and he presumed that if the Queen should consent to it, that his Highness's
brother would have the like good opinion of it. The Prince said it would be most agreeable
to his brother, who very much respected the English nation, as generally the Swedish people
did. He said that he never was present at the Council, nor did meddle with any public business;
but he doubted not but that Whitelocke would receive contentment. Whitelocke said he promised
himself so much, being the Protector had sent him hither to testify his respects to the Queen
and to the kingdom of Sweden, and to offer them the amity of England.

The Prince also discoursed of the late King of England, and of the proceedings between him
and the Parliament, with great dislike thereof; to which Whitelocke gave him an account, and
a modest answer declining that argument with the Prince, and telling him that every nation
had their particular rights and laws, according to which they were governed. He testified great
respect to Whitelocke; and when he took his leave the Prince conducted him as far as the great
court, which he used not to do to others of Whitelocke's quality.

March 12, 1653.

[SN: The treaty delayed by reason of the Queen's abdication.]

Mr. Bloome--who had been formerly a servant to the old Duke of Buckingham in England, and after
that coming to Sweden, was entertained by the Chancellor, and his great creature, and had been
employed by him as a public minister--did the honour to Whitelocke to be often with him, and
now, after dinner, discoursed much of the revolution which was likely to happen in this country
by the Queen's resignation; upon which subject Whitelocke thought not fit to speak much in company.

Afterwards in private Whitelocke asked Mr. Bloome if he had heard the Chancellor speak of deferring
his business till the Prince were crowned. Bloome confessed he heard the Chancellor say that
he thought it would be more convenient to have Whitelocke's business resolved after the King
should be crowned than at present. Whitelocke told him (which he supposed Bloome would again
relate to the Chancellor) that all acts of such nature concluded by the Queen before her resignation
would be held authentic by her successor. Bloome said he believed so, but, being the change
would be so soon, he thought it might be better to have the business put into the hands of
the new King. Whitelocke said it would require a long time to expect the new King's settlement,
before which he believed his return home might be commanded. Bloome said the business would
be soon done after the meeting of the Ricksdag, which did not use to sit long. By this and
other discourses Whitelocke found that there was a purpose in some to defer the conclusion
of his treaty to the King, which he therefore prepared to prevent.

La Belle Comtesse made a great entertainment and ball for Montecuculi and the rest of the gallants
this night, though it were the Lord's Day; but Whitelocke nor none of his company were present
at it.

March 13, 1653.

[SN: Whitelocke confers with Count Eric Oxenstiern on the articles.]

Grave Eric came to Whitelocke to confer about his treaty, and said to him.

Grave Eric. The Queen hath commanded me to come to you and to have some conference with you
about your proposals, wherein she is pleased to make use of my service, because at this time
my father is very ill of an ague, and is not able himself to meet with you; and his former
indisposition of health and extraordinary affairs hath been some occasion of hindrance of the
despatch of your business, as have also the uncertainty of the issue of your treaty with Holland,
and our great business of the Queen's intentions here.

Whitelocke. I have long expected some answer to be given in my business, the greatest part
whereof hath no dependence upon the treaty with Holland, and the Queen's intentions here have
been but lately made known. I have been three months in this place without any answer to my
business, although I presume that the amity of England is grateful to this nation, and may
merit the acceptance.

Gr. Eric. So is the friendship of Sweden.

Wh. My Lord Protector hath testified that by sending me hither.

Gr. Eric. The Queen hath likewise sent several public ministers to England, and Mr. Lagerfeldt
was a long time there without effecting anything.

Wh. He had answers to his proposals very often, and it was on his part that a conclusion was
not had with him. But if you please to proceed to a conference upon my proposals, I am ready
to treat with you, as I have always been to treat with my Lord Chancellor, your father, for
whose ill-health I am heartily sorry.

Gr. Eric. I am ready in the same way of secresy as it hath been carried with my father, so
that Mr. Beningen in his letters to his superiors saith that the English Ambassador did treat
with none but the Queen alone, and sometimes alone with the Chancellor, whereby he could not
possibly give any account of those transactions; for he thought that not one person in Sweden,
except the Queen and the Chancellor, knew what they were.

Wh. The gentleman hath done me an honour in that expression.

Gr. Eric. My coming to your Excellence is to proceed in your business; and I desire a consideration
may be had of the great losses which the Queen's subjects have sustained by the seizing and
detaining of their ships by the English.

Wh. This is a new objection, and I am neither empowered nor have ability to cast up such accounts
or to take such examinations; but there is a court of justice in England, which I presume has
done, and will do, right to any who have cause to complain; and I know that my Lord Protector
will command that justice shall be done to all the Queen's subjects; and if any of them have
received any injury, they ought to receive a just satisfaction from the parties that did them
wrong; and, if you please, I shall mention these things in my letters to England, and when
I come thither myself I will personally endeavour that the same may be had fully.

Gr. Eric. I hope a just satisfaction will be given herein, without which there can be no solid
foundation of amity between the two nations and their people.

Wh. The same is reasonably and mutually to be expected; and I make no question but my Lord
Protector will order right to be done therein.

Gr. Eric. The Queen's subjects have received great losses under colour of contraband goods,
when the same hath not been proved.

Wh. And many of our allies have been found to colour our enemies' goods to the damage of England;
but these matters will be proper for an examination elsewhere.

They proceeded to the particular articles.

1. This, Eric said, was equal.

2. He made the same objections as the Queen had done, and Whitelocke gave the same answers;
and Eric said that this article depended upon our treaty with the Dutch.

3. Eric desired an explanation of the words "omnibus in locis quibus hactenus commercium exercebatur,"--whether
that were not intended to include the English plantations in America, because traffic thither,
without special license, was prohibited by our Commonwealth; and he said it would be unequal
for the English to have the full traffic in the Queen's dominions, and her subjects not to
have the like in our Commonwealth. Whitelocke answered, that the English desired no traffic
in any of the Queen's dominions out of Europe, and therefore it was equal not to consent to
their traffic in America; and that the opinion of the Council of State in England had been
made known to Mr. Lagerfeldt in England, in this point; which paper Whitelocke then showed,
and the Grave urged many other arguments, but Whitelocke kept himself to the paper of the Council.

Eric said, those transactions of Lagerfeldt were remitted to Whitelocke's Embassy. Whitelocke
said, that whatever his instructions might warrant, yet it would not become him to do anything
contrary to that wherein the Council of State had declared their judgement. The same answer
Whitelocke gave him concerning the herring-fishing, which Eric much insisted upon; and as to
the pre-emption of the commodities of Sweden, mentioned in the Council's paper, which Whitelocke
showed him, Eric said that could not be, because those commodities were of very great value,
and belonged to several private persons; and he demanded of Whitelocke if he thought England
would be contented to give a pre-emption of all their cloth.

Whitelocke said, the cloth of England was likewise of very great value, and there would hardly
be found one stock to buy it all, and there were several staples in other countries to vent
it at; and he said he thought the best way would be, first to agree upon the general amity
and commerce between the two nations, and afterwards, if Sweden held it fit, when they sent
an ambassador to England, or otherwise, to propound anything concerning the fishing for herrings
or the traffic in America, or touching a staple at Narva, Revel, or Gothenburg (which Eric
likewise discoursed of at large), that the Protector would give a fair and just answer.

4. Eric made the same objections that the Queen had done, and had the same answers.

5. The like discourse was upon this article.

6. The sixth, Eric said, was the same in effect with the fourth article, and might be adjoined
to it. Whitelocke showed him the difference, chiefly in the beginning of this article; and
so they passed on.

7. They had many arguments touching contraband goods, wherein Whitelocke held himself to the
paper given by the Council to Lagerfeldt; and Eric passed it over, as depending upon the success
of the treaty with Holland, especially in the words "bona à suis cujusque inimicis direpta."

8. This, Eric thought, would need explanation of the words "in quolibet suorum marium." Whitelocke
told him that was intended in Europe only.

9. Eric said the words "armatis vel inermibus" were not necessary, because by the law of Sweden
any might carry their arms with them. Whitelocke told him that it was not permitted in England
for so many together without license.

10. Eric made no objection to this article.

11. Nor any to this article.

12. Nor was anything objected to this article.

13. Eric said the proviso needed explanation as to the point of breaking bulk, as the Queen
had objected; and Whitelocke gave the same answer.

14. The like objections and answers as before, and consent to the like amendment.

Eric and much other good company dined with Whitelocke, and after dinner they had further discourse
on the same subject. And Eric promised to give his objections to Whitelocke in writing, and
to let him know the Queen's pleasure upon their conference; which Whitelocke intended to know
also from the Queen herself.

The company being gone, Whitelocke visited Piementelle, who discoursed much touching the Duke
of Lorraine, and of the insolencies of his soldiers, for which the Duke would give no right;
but if a poor countryman complained to him, that his wife had been ravished by his soldiers,
and his goods taken away, the Duke would laugh at the poor man, and say to him, "It is my condition:
the King of France hath ravished my wife and my estate, and I have got another wife, and maintain
myself with the goods of others; and I advise thee to do the same as I have done." Piementelle
informed Whitelocke of a carriage of Beningen of much more incivility towards the Queen than
that which he attributed to Whitelocke towards Prince Adolphus; and Whitelocke imparted to
Piementelle some passages between Grave Eric and Whitelocke, supposing he would tell it to
the Queen.

March 14, 1653.

[SN: Interview with General Wrangel.]

Four of the Queen's servants did Whitelocke the honour to dine with him; and after they were
gone, Whitelocke visited the Field-Marshal Wrangel, a gentleman of an ancient noble family
in this country, son to General Wrangel, of whom so often and so honourable mention is made
in the German wars under Gustavus Adolphus, the Queen's father.

This Field-Marshal was about thirty-five years of age; his person proper and burly, his countenance
martial and ingenuous, and his discourse answerable; his behaviour courteous, and full of cheerfulness
in his words and actions. His education was liberal; some time he had spent in foreign parts,
and had attained languages and the military part of learning. He was full of knowledge of the
mathematics, and well read in story. His genius led him most to warfare, and the sea affairs
seemed most suitable to his affections; whereof he would much discourse with Whitelocke, and
admired his relations of the English fleets and havens. His valour and conduct had commonly
the best associate, good success, which he used to improve, not parting with the least advantage.
This brought him to the favour of his Queen and honour of his country, wherein he was a Ricks-Senator,
and as a Field-Marshal commanded the army, and was Ricks-Vice-Admiral, which charge he attained
in the late war with Denmark; and he it was that took the King of Denmark's ships in the late
fight with them. Whitelocke gave him thanks for his favours to Whitelocke's son at Stockholm;
they discoursed of the English navy, whereof Wrangel knew many of the ships by name. He told
Whitelocke that Middleton was arrived in Scotland with two hundred officers and six thousand
arms, which he brought from the Low Countries.

From Wrangel Whitelocke went to visit Woolfeldt, to congratulate his recovery of health. He
told Whitelocke that, by letters which he received from one of his servants in the Low Countries,
he was advertised that the States had sold above twenty of their ships of war, and that his
servant heard the Admiral de Witt speak of it. He also told Whitelocke that he had spoken with
many officers of the army, and found all of them wish that the war between England and Holland
might continue; by which they hoped they should join with the English, and gain advantage by
it, and themselves good employment and plunder. But he said that the Chancellor and his sons,
and their party, desired that a peace might be between the two Commonwealths, because they
were rich enough, and had an interest in trade, and were no soldiers; and that the Queen desired
peace among all her neighbours, and although she was very courageous, yet she loved not the wars.

March 15, 1653.

[SN: Further conference with the Queen.]

Whitelocke waited on the Queen, and gave her an account of the conference between Grave Eric
and him. The Queen said that Grave Eric had told her the same things. Whitelocke replied, that
her Majesty should never find other than truth from him. Upon the point of damages she seemed
satisfied, though she were informed that those matters were remitted to Whitelocke's negotiation.
To which he answered as he had done before to Eric; and she was contented, and said she would
send an ambassador to England, by whom the affairs touching the herring-fishing and the erection
of a staple and the trade in America might be concluded; and she told Whitelocke that she had
ordered those things which she judged fit to be added to his articles, to be written down and
given to him.

She asked Whitelocke by what way he purposed to return to England. He said he was doubtful
of going by land, and thought the passage from Stockholm to Lübeck would be the shortest and
most convenient for him. She replied, that would be his best way, and that she would give order
for some of her ships to be ready to transport him; for which Whitelocke thanked her Majesty.

She discoursed much of England, and asked many questions about the Thames and other rivers
of England, and of their havens and armies; whereof Whitelocke gave her a full account. She
asked him in how many days one might go from Plymouth to St. Sebastian, and many other things
on that subject. They also discoursed of religion and the worship and service of God; wherein
Whitelocke spake plainly and freely to her Majesty, and told her that those who made a mock
at religion, and were Atheists in their opinion, were not only most miserable in their own
condition, but brought others likewise into misery; and all of them would find that God would
not be mocked, nor such conversation be excused, but would be brought into a sad account in
the end; and that there was no foundation in any such people, or in their opinions, but what
was sandy and would fail, and all building thereupon would totter and fall down and become
rubbish; that the only solid comfort and true wisdom lay in the sincere worship and service
of God, which was not only agreeable to the doctrine of truth, but to reason itself. To this,
and much of the like discourse, the Queen was very attentive, and seemed pleased with it.

March 16, 1653.

[SN: Despatches from England.]

Whitelocke received his letters from England, and in those from Thurloe he writes thus:--

    "The particular account your Excellence gives of your negotiation is
    very acceptable here, as is also your dexterous management thereof.
    The paper you were pleased to send to me shall be represented to the
    Council; and your Excellence may be assured that a due care will be
    taken of that business, as well for justice' sake as that your
    present business be not hindered by things of this kind. The bales
    of the Queen's goods shall also be taken care of, and any omissions
    which have been therein rectified; and I do assure your Excellence
    that the Queen's Commissary here hath such speedy and effectual
    despatches in everything he makes application for, that I know he
    cannot but give notice of it to the Queen."

Then he gives in his letters a full relation of the state of the Dutch treaty, and all particulars
of it, and the likelihood of its taking effect; and gives intelligence of the French news;
and sends copies of Beningen's letters from Upsal to the States, and of the posture of affairs
in England, Scotland, and Ireland: and concludes,--

    "Therefore, with my humble thanks for your Excellence's favour to me
    of your weekly letters, and hearty wishes for your safe and
    honourable return to your friends and relations here, I rest,

    "Your Excellence's most humble and faithful servant,

                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "February 16, 1653."

Whitelocke received many letters from his private friends, his brothers-in-law, Mr. Hall, Mr.
Cokaine, Mr. Eltonhead, Sir Charles Woolsey, Colonel Sydenham, and one from Mr. Selden, which
for the extraordinary respect thereof, and the person's sake (of whom the Queen made often
inquiry), is fit to be remembered, and was thus:--

[SN: Letter from Selden.]

    "To his Excellence the Lord Whitelocke, Lord Ambassador to her Most
    Excellent Majesty of Sweden.

    "May it please your Excellence,

    "There is nothing happens here that can be worthy of your knowledge
    but you meet with it doubtless long before I could send it,--indeed,
    I think, long before I know it,--so that I cannot present you with
    any English news: my still keeping in from the open cold air makes
    me a mere winter stranger in my own country. The best news I have
    heard since I had the honour to see you, and that which brought me
    with it an ample store of gladness, was the assurance of your
    Excellence's safety, which a false rumour with great confidence had
    utterly destroyed here. There is none living can with more hearty
    affection wish all happiness to you, and good success in your great
    employment there, and a safe and timely return, than doth most
    really,

                  "Your Excellence's most obliged
                                    "and most humble servant,
                                                      "J. SELDEN.
    "Whitefriars, February 10, 1653."

The occasion of that passage in his letter of a false rumour was news brought into England
that Whitelocke was stabbed and murdered in Sweden; and thus his death was with much confidence
reported from several hands, and from divers intelligences out of several parts of Christendom.
Whitelocke's friends were much startled at this news, and the more because of former intelligences
of designs of that nature against him, whereof they wrote him word; and he was glad to read
the news, and that, through the goodness of God, he was able to confute those reports. They
were kept from Whitelocke's wife by the care of his friends, till one in gladness came to give
her joy that the ill news of her husband was not true; which brought the whole matter to her
knowledge, and herself to great perplexity upon the sudden apprehension and fright of it, though
there was no truth in it.

Whitelocke, that he might not seem wholly to neglect the Queen's favour, had sent a packet
of his letters which had no secrets unto Monsieur Bonele, the Queen's Commissary in England,
who wrote back an account to Whitelocke of his care of them, and of the command he had received
from the Queen so to do, and prayed Whitelocke to speak to the Queen on Bonele's behalf.

March 17, 1653.

[SN: Prince Adolphus visits Whitelocke.]

Prince Adolphus visited Whitelocke, and they discoursed much of England and of Whitelocke's
business; whom the Prince persuaded to stay in patience for an answer, and he doubted not but
that he would receive satisfaction. Whitelocke said that hitherto he had been very patient,
and would continue so, and not importune anybody to speed his answer, being it concerned both
nations; and he believed that Sweden would be as well disposed to entertain the amity of England
as England had been in the offer of it. But Whitelocke thought fit to inform the Prince and
some others that he thought his residence here would not be long, and that as soon as my Lord
Protector should send his letter for his return to England (which he expected in a short time),
he would presently take his journey. They discoursed also touching his brother, who was to
succeed, and of the brotherly affection between them; as also of the proposal which had been
heretofore made in the Ricksdag of the Queen to marry his Royal Highness, and the Council's
advice and endeavours to further the same; and how it was not brought to pass, the Queen being
wholly adverse to marriage, but causing the succession of the Prince Palatine to be enacted
by the Ricksdag after her Majesty, if she had no children. And in these particulars the Prince
was free in his discourse, but Whitelocke thought not fit for him to be so.

[SN: Letter of Jonathan Pickes.]

Whitelocke communicated to some of his company a letter which he received from a member of
a congregation in London, which was thus:--

    "For his Excellence the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke at Sweden.

    "My Lord,

    "The wise and holy carriage of Solomon before the Queen of Sheba are
    more lasting monuments of his praise than his targets of gold, or
    magnificent temple. The glory of saints is a glorious name, by
    which, though dead, yet they speak. God will not be ungrateful, nor
    unfaithful to forget or not to recompense any labour of love. The
    interest of Christ,--what greater jewel in the world! and yet how
    little liked and loved by the world! All seek their own, not the
    things of Jesus Christ. The best, the noblest, the most lasting, yet
    not minded: our own things, poor, low, uncertain, unsatisfactory,
    yet pursued. The heart runneth after the wedge of gold, and the mind
    seeks for greatness. Give me honour, or else I die: a crown here is
    more desired than heaven hereafter. Divine love hath great danger
    accompanying it, but the recompense is answerable: 'Be thou faithful
    unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.' Learned Paul
    counts all things but dung and dross to holy Christ; and Moses
    esteemed reproaches for Christ, and afflictions with the people of
    Christ, greater riches than the treasures of Egypt or the honours at
    Court. And now, Sir, will you have the meaning of all? It is only a
    Christian motive to you to eye the highest Lord and the best
    interest with the greatest industry; that his honour, which is best
    of all, be dearer to you than all country honour: life, world, are
    not to be named in the day of his glory. Oh mind him who will not
    forget you in the least! There's none in heaven like him: can there
    be anything on earth compared to him? Two things are chiefly to be
    minded in all actings,--the springs from whence, and the centre to
    which, all moves. If love to God be the spring of all, and glory for
    God the centre of all, then the heart is upright in all. My soul and many more have been set
    a-praising God on your behalf, for that noble Christian testimony
    and dislike of that wicked custom of cup-health pledging; whereas a
    Christian's health is God, and his cup salvation. And blessed be the
    Lord, that did give you to dislike the ball of pleasure, and that
    the Lord of that day was so precious. Go on nobly for the Lord; give
    your testimony against the wicked customs of a strange country or
    dying world; bear his image in all your transactions, and follow his
    steps who was the most glorious Ambassador that ever was; and in
    this motion the Lord fill your sails with his gales, make you holily
    successful, and give you to see your land and relations full of
    heavenly fruition, is the humble and hearty desire of one of the
    least sons of Zion, ready to serve the Lord in you or yours.

                                               "JONATHAN PICKES."

March 18, 1653.

Doctor Whistler made a copy of Latin verses upon the Queen's abdication, which, for the ingenuity
and fancy, were worthy the sight of a Prince; and Whitelocke sent them to the Queen, who was
much taken with them. Whitelocke was so pleased with those verses that, having a little leisure,
himself turned them into English.[41]

Whitelocke having sent to know if the Queen were at leisure that he might wait upon her, she
returned an excuse that she was not well: she came away sick from the public schools, where
she had been to grace the disputations of a young Swedish Baron with her presence.

[SN: Effect of the peace with Holland.]

Senator Bundt visited Whitelocke, and discoursed with him in English, which he spake indifferently
well, and was the only Swede he conversed with in that language. Part of their discourse was
to this effect:--

Bundt. Mr. Beningen, the Holland Resident in this Court, acquainted me that his superiors have
concluded the agreement with England: only some provinces desire a more express inclusion of
the King of Denmark than is yet contained in the articles; and they are much troubled that,
being upon the conclusion of the treaty, you make so great preparations of war, and have so
powerful a fleet at sea; and we here do much wonder what should be your design to have so strong
a fleet, and so soon out at sea.

Wh. The design is for the defence of the Commonwealth; and it is our custom not to trust to
the success of any treaties, which is uncertain, but to prepare for all events. If the treaty
be agreed, it will be religiously observed on our part, and the navy will be employed to scour
the seas of pirates and enemies, that trade may be free and safe; and we always use in time
of peace to have a fleet at sea; and if the war continue, we shall be the more ready, by the
blessing of God, to maintain our right. But what suspicion have you here of our navy?

Bundt. We suppose it may be employed to open the passage of the Sound, and make the trade and
navigation there free.

Wh. The hindrance of navigation there is more prejudicial{2} to Sweden than to England. We
can have our commodities at Gothenburg and in other places, without passing the Baltic Sea.

Bundt. Many amongst us know not what to think of your fleet, and it troubles some.

Wh. I hope we shall be in nearer amity, and then you will be pleased at it. Have the Senators
consulted about the matters of my treaty, or of remitting it to the new King?

Bundt. We have not advised any such thing, but believe the best way for effecting your business
will be by the Queen herself; and if any tell you the contrary, they are much mistaken in the
affairs of this kingdom, and do not give you a right understanding of them.

This being wholly contrary to what was informed by Monsieur Bloome, the Chancellor's creature,
caused Whitelocke the more to mind it, and endeavour to obviate that prejudice of delay to
his business; and finding by this discourse with Bundt how much the Dutch Resident and others
here were amused at the English fleet now at sea, he made use thereof, and gave advice of it
to his superiors in England.

March 19, 1653.

[SN: Intrigues of the Dutch Resident against Whitelocke.]

Whitelocke sent to inquire of the Queen's health; and it being the Lord's Day, she was in her
chapel. Divers English and Scots of the town came to Whitelocke's house to hear sermons there;
and among them was Monsieur Ravius, who acquainted Whitelocke that one of the Queen's chaplains
asked Ravius how long Whitelocke intended to stay in Sweden. Ravius said he would shortly return
to his own country. The chaplain replied, he did not believe that, but he thought Whitelocke
would stay here a long time, and that he durst not return to England because of the displeasure
of the Protector against him. And when he was answered that Whitelocke came hither not in the
posture of a man out of favour, and that the Protector since his accession to the Government
had sent him new credentials, and expressed much favour to him, and sent to be certified what
respect the Queen gave him, the chaplain replied that Whitelocke was sent hither purposely
to be removed out of England, and because he had been of the former Parliament; to which Ravius
said, that many who were of the former Parliament were now in public offices, as Whitelocke was.

There was cause to believe that this and many the like stories were feigned by the Holland
Resident and other enemies of the Commonwealth, to asperse Whitelocke and his business, and
to give some obstruction to it; but Whitelocke took little notice of such things, only he thanked
Monsieur Ravius for his defence of Whitelocke and of the truth.

