From that time its development was something marvelous. French, English, German and American
hybridizers have vied with each other in bringing out new forms. It must be considered now
as one of the few flowers that has all but reached perfection. There are three or four marked
types of flowers, and it would seem impossible in any of these types to add to their beauty
of form or to improve their colors, unless it would be to add a really deep yellow to the list
of shades. Nor is anything lacking in size or doubleness of bloom.

THE MODERN ASTER

Our Asters of to-day range in size from the dwarfs, 6 to 12 inches high, to half dwarfs, 15
to 18 inches tall, and tall sorts, 20 inches to 2 feet in height. There are three leading types
of flowers. (1) Rose-flowered, shaped and imbricated like a blooded rose, the outer petals
reflexed or rolled back, and the inner ones slightly recurved. This type of flower is much
prized by those who like regularity of petals. They are as perfect as though moulded and shaped
out of wax. (2) Peony-flowered, large blossoms with incurved petals, making a globe-shaped
flower. (3) Chrysanthemum-flowered, with closely arranged, informal petals, sometimes curled
and feathered to a high degree. Beside there are quilled, ball, and tassel Asters, etc., modifications
or sports of the types mentioned.

The Aster is a showy flower, and grows well for those who treat it well, in any climate or
country. They come into bloom in late midsummer and last until frost, one of the scarcest times
in the year for really good flowers. It is fine for exhibition at flower shows, and is useful
as a cut flower. For all of these reasons the Aster would be a standard flower. Their great
popularity is based, however, on two qualifications not mentioned above, and both of which
they possess in a superlative degree. These qualities are great beauty of flower and a wonderful
diversity and perfection of coloring.

A well grown Aster is simply magnificent. The Chrysanthemum is acknowledged to be the queen
of autumn. Nevertheless more than one unscrupulous florist has palmed off great fluffy white
blooms of Asters as those of Queen Chrysanthemum herself. Size, form, color and substance go
to make up a superbly beautiful flower without a trace of coarseness or gaudiness about it.
In poetical language their flowers symbolize both bounty and cheerfulness in old age.

No one but an artist should attempt to describe an Aster's colors. There are nearly thirty
shades in Truffaut's Peony-flowered Asters. Victoria Asters can be purchased under twenty-four
separate colors. Other sections show still other shades, to say nothing of those with white
crowns and colored borders, and those with striped and silver-tipped flowers.

Only the drifted snow can compare with the purity of a white Aster. It has those spotless flowers
that bring thoughts of heaven. Asters have many blue and lavender tints. None of them are muddy,
or metallic, or dingy, as are too many blues and lavenders. They show the blue of a June sky,
or the blue of the amethyst, or the color of the lilac of spring, together with soft lavenders,
pale blues and deep indigo. Sulphur and primrose tints are the nearest yellow, but in reds
they run the gamut from rosy flesh and palest apple-blossom through shell pink, peach, rose,
carmine, scarlet and blood red to deepest crimson. Many of the pink shades are exquisitely
beautiful. Only the pure whites can surpass them.

GENERAL CULTURE OF THE ASTER

I would like to say that a six-year old child can raise good Asters, and that they will grow
in any kind of ground from a clay bank to a sand pit, or stand any kind of treatment. I can't
truthfully say those things, however, for my Lady Aster is a fastidious dame. She wants plenty
to eat and plenty to drink, and requires her insect foes kept at bay. Those who are not willing
to do this had better let her alone. James Vick, that good old seedsman now gone to his reward,
was an Aster enthusiast. His experience concisely summed up amounts to this:

     Never let them flag from seed-leaf to time of full bloom. Give
     deep, rich ground, plenty of sunshine, and mulch with coarse
     manure. Stake the tall varieties so as to prevent their blowing
     over.

That's a good rule for those who want everything in a nutshell. It may be summed up in another
way. The way to have fine Asters is to do these six things: (1) Get the best seed; (2) start
in a seasonable time; (3) give rich, mellow ground; (4) never allow them to parch; (5) keep
insects down; and (6) stake when necessary.

[Sidenote: About Seed]

There are many kinds of seed that may be home grown year after year and the strain suffer no
deterioration. Aster seed is not one of these kinds. If they were given high culture so as
to bloom their best, and only a few of the very choicest individual flowers allowed to seed,
they would of course come true from seed year after year. The trouble is that home saving is
generally from all the flowers as they run, culls, off-colored specimens and all. Our best
Asters represent very high breeding indeed. It is well known that highly bred plants quickly
run out unless kept at the same high standard. Therefore never trust to haphazard seed if you
desire first class Asters. Do not depend either upon cheap seed. Choose a reliable seed house,
one that takes a pride in keeping the choicest strains of all the leading flowers and has too
much regard for its reputation to send out inferior seeds under some high-sounding title.

[Sidenote: Time to Start Asters]

A great many people start Aster seed in the house or greenhouse as early as February. There
is not only nothing gained by this--for the Aster is a late flower and does not come to its
best estate before August, start it when you will--but an actual disadvantage. Like James Vick,
I would emphasize the importance of never letting the plants get a check if the finest flowers
are wanted. Now the Aster is not naturally a hothouse plant. It needs in its young stage plenty
of fresh air. Without it, or without sufficient light, or in too warm an atmosphere, the young
Aster plants become tall and spindling, or, as florists express it, are drawn. A drawn Aster
invariably makes a weak, sickly plant, and never bears large or handsome flowers. Sow the seed
thinly and cover lightly. They should germinate in from 5 to 7 days.

In the middle states the best growers make a practice of sowing the seeds in boxes about the
last of April or first of May. Some make a couple of later sowings between that date and the
first of June, sowing these in carefully prepared seed-beds in the open ground. This is to
keep up a succession of flowers. So many sowings are scarcely necessary now that there are
both early and late varieties to be chosen in the first place. The period of first sowing will
allow for all, if kinds that flower at various times are chosen. In the Southern states a June
sowing is recommended. A lath frame will keep the plants from parching.

Late Asters may be lifted for the house. It is a good plan if one wishes several of them for
pot plants to sow seed of them in July, under a lath frame where they will be shaded somewhat
and protected from drying winds until up and of some little size. These will come into bloom
before the first Holland bulbs are ready for the window, and will remain in full beauty for
several weeks. An August sowing will give late winter and early spring flowers.

