This observation is the result of experience; for I have known several notable women, and one
in particular, who was a very good woman--as good as such a narrow mind would allow her to
be, who took care that her daughters (three in number) should never see a novel.  As she was
a woman of fortune and fashion, they had various masters to attend them, and a sort of menial
governess to watch their footsteps.  From their masters they learned how tables, chairs, etc.
were called in French and Italian; but as the few books thrown in their way were far above
their capacities, or devotional, they neither acquired ideas nor sentiments, and passed their
time, when not compelled to repeat WORDS, in dressing, quarrelling with each other, or conversing
with their maids by stealth, till they were brought into company as marriageable.

Their mother, a widow, was busy in the mean time in keeping up her connexions, as she termed
a numerous acquaintance lest her girls should want a proper introduction into the great world.
And these young ladies, with minds vulgar in every sense of the word, and spoiled tempers,
entered life puffed up with notions of their own consequence, and looking down with contempt
on those who could not vie with them in dress and parade.

With respect to love, nature, or their nurses, had taken care to teach them the physical meaning
of the word; and, as they had few topics of conversation, and fewer refinements of sentiment,
they expressed their gross wishes not in very delicate phrases, when they spoke freely, talking
of matrimony.

Could these girls have been injured by the perusal of novels?  I almost forgot a shade in the
character of one of them; she affected a simplicity bordering on folly, and with a simper would
utter the most immodest remarks and questions, the full meaning of which she had learned whilst
secluded from the world, and afraid to speak in her mother's presence, who governed with a
high hand;  they were all educated, as she prided herself, in a most exemplary manner; and
read their chapters and psalms before breakfast, never touching a silly novel.

This is only one instance; but I recollect many other women who, not led by degrees to proper
studies, and not permitted to choose for themselves, have indeed been overgrown children; or
have obtained, by mixing in the world, a little of what is termed common sense;  that is, a
distinct manner of seeing common occurrences, as they stand detached:  but what deserves the
name of intellect, the power of gaining general or abstract ideas, or even intermediate ones,
was out of the question.  Their minds were quiescent, and when they were not roused by sensible
objects and employments of that kind, they were low-spirited, would cry, or go to sleep.

When, therefore, I advise my sex not to read such flimsy works, it is to induce them to read
something superior; for I coincide in opinion with a sagacious man, who, having a daughter
and niece under his care, pursued a very different plan with each.

The niece, who had considerable abilities, had, before she was left to his guardianship, been
indulged in desultory reading.  Her he endeavoured to lead, and did lead, to history and moral
essays; but his daughter whom a fond weak mother had indulged, and who consequently was averse
to every thing like application, he allowed to read novels;  and used to justify his conduct
by saying, that if she ever attained a relish for reading them, he should have some foundation
to work upon; and that erroneous opinions were better than none at all.

In fact, the female mind has been so totally neglected, that knowledge was only to be acquired
from this muddy source, till from reading novels some women of superior talents learned to
despise them.

The best method, I believe, that can be adopted to correct a fondness for novels is to ridicule
them;  not indiscriminately, for then it would have little effect; but, if a judicious person,
with some turn for humour, would read several to a young girl, and point out, both by tones
and apt comparisons with pathetic incidents and heroic characters in history, how foolishly
and ridiculously they caricatured human nature, just opinions might be substituted instead
of romantic sentiments.

In one respect, however, the majority of both sexes resemble, and equally show a want of taste
and modesty.  Ignorant women, forced to be chaste to preserve their reputation, allow their
imagination to revel in the unnatural and meretricious scenes sketched by the novel writers
of the day, slighting as insipid the sober dignity and matronly grace of history,* whilst men
carry the same vitiated taste into life, and fly for amusement to the wanton, from the unsophisticated
charms of virtue, and the grave respectability of sense.

(*Footnote.  I am not now alluding to that superiority of mind which leads to the creation
of ideal beauty, when life surveyed with a penetrating eye, appears a tragi-comedy, in which
little can be seen to satisfy the heart without the help of fancy.)

Besides, the reading of novels makes women, and particularly ladies of fashion, very fond of
using strong expressions and superlatives in conversation; and, though the dissipated artificial
life which they lead prevents their cherishing any strong legitimate passion, the language
of passion in affected tones slips for ever from their glib tongues, and every trifle produces
those phosphoric bursts which only mimick in the dark the flame of passion.

SECTION 13.3.

Ignorance and the mistaken cunning that nature sharpens in weak heads, as a principle of self-preservation,
render women very fond of dress, and produce all the vanity which such a fondness may naturally
be expected to generate, to the exclusion of emulation and magnanimity.

I agree with Rousseau, that the physical part of the art of pleasing consists in ornaments,
and for that very reason I should guard girls against the contagious fondness for dress so
common to weak women, that they may not rest in the physical part.  Yet, weak are the women
who imagine that they can long please without the aid of the mind; or, in other words, without
the moral art of pleasing. But the moral art, if it be not a profanation to use the word art,
when alluding to the grace which is an effect of virtue, and not the motive of action, is never
to be found with ignorance; the sportiveness of innocence, so pleasing to refined libertines
of both sexes, is widely different in its essence from this superior gracefulness.

A strong inclination for external ornaments ever appears in barbarous states, only the men
not the women adorn themselves; for where women are allowed to be so far on a level with men,
society has advanced at least one step in civilization.

The attention to dress, therefore, which has been thought a sexual propensity, I think natural
to mankind.  But I ought to express myself with more precision.  When the mind is not sufficiently
opened to take pleasure in reflection, the body will be adorned with sedulous care; and ambition
will appear in tattooing or painting it.

So far is the first inclination carried, that even the hellish yoke of slavery cannot stifle
the savage desire of admiration which the black heroes inherit from both their parents, for
all the hardly-earned savings of a slave are commonly expended in a little tawdry finery. 
And I have seldom known a good male or female servant that was not particularly fond of dress.
Their clothes were their riches; and I argue from analogy, that the fondness for dress, so
extravagant in females, arises from the same cause--want of cultivation of mind.  When men
meet they converse about business, politics, or literature; but, says Swift, "how naturally
do women apply their hands to each others lappets and ruffles." And very natural it is--for
they have not any business to interest them, have not a taste for literature, and they find
politics dry, because they have not acquired a love for mankind by turning their thoughts to
the grand pursuits that exalt the human race and promote general happiness.

Besides, various are the paths to power and fame, which by accident or choice men pursue, and
though they jostle against each other, for men of the same profession are seldom friends, yet
there is a much greater number of their fellow-creatures with whom they never clash.  But women
are very differently situated with respect to each other--for they are all rivals.

Before marriage it is their business to please men; and after, with a few exceptions, they
follow the same scent, with all the persevering pertinacity of instinct.  Even virtuous women
never forget their sex in company, for they are for ever trying to make themselves AGREEABLE.
A female beauty and a male wit, appear to be equally anxious to draw the attention of the company
to themselves; and the animosity of contemporary wits is proverbial.

Is it then surprising, that when the sole ambition of woman centres in beauty, and interest
gives vanity additional force, perpetual rivalships should ensue?  They are all running the
same race, and would rise above the virtue of mortals if they did not view each other with
a suspicious and even envious eye.

An immoderate fondness for dress, for pleasure and for sway, are the passions of savages; the
passions that occupy those uncivilized beings who have not yet extended the dominion of the
mind, or even learned to think with the energy necessary to concatenate that abstract train
of thought which produces principles.  And that women, from their education and the present
state of civilized life, are in the same condition, cannot, I think, be controverted. To laugh
at them then, or satirize the follies of a being who is never to be allowed to act freely from
the light of her own reason, is as absurd as cruel; for that they who are taught blindly to
obey authority, will endeavour cunningly to elude it, is most natural and certain.

Yet let it be proved, that they ought to obey man implicitly, and I shall immediately agree
that it is woman's duty to cultivate a fondness for dress, in order to please, and a propensity
to cunning for her own preservation.

The virtues, however, which are supported by ignorance, must ever be wavering--the house built
on sand could not endure a storm.  It is almost unnecessary to draw the inference.  If women
are to be made virtuous by authority, which is a contradiction in terms, let them be immured
in seraglios and watched with a jealous eye.  Fear not that the iron will enter into their
souls--for the souls that can bear such treatment are made of yielding materials, just animated
enough to give life to the body.

The most cruel wounds will of course soon heal, and they may still people the world, and dress
to please man--all the purposes which certain celebrated writers have allowed that they were
created to fill.

SECTION 13.4.

Women are supposed to possess more sensibility, and even humanity, than men, and their strong
attachments and instantaneous emotions of compassion are given as proofs; but the clinging
affection of ignorance has seldom any thing noble in it, and may mostly be resolved into selfishness,
as well as the affection of children and brutes.  I have known many weak women whose sensibility
was entirely engrossed by their husbands; and as for their humanity, it was very faint indeed,
or rather it was only a transient emotion of compassion,  "Humanity does not consist in a squeamish
ear," says an eminent orator.  "It belongs to the mind as well as the nerves."

But this kind of exclusive affection, though it degrade the individual, should not be brought
forward as a proof of the inferiority of the sex, because it is the natural consequence of
confined views:  for even women of superior sense, having their attention turned to little
employments, and private plans, rarely rise to heroism, unless when spurred on by love; and
love as an heroic passion, like genius, appears but once in an age.  I therefore agree with
the moralist who asserts, "that women have seldom so much generosity as men;" and that their
narrow affections, to which justice and humanity are often sacrificed, render the sex apparently
inferior, especially as they are commonly inspired by men; but I contend, that the heart would
expand as the understanding gained strength, if women were not depressed from their cradles.

I know that a little sensibility and great weakness will produce a strong sexual attachment,
and that reason must cement friendship; consequently I allow, that more friendship is to be
found in the male than the female world, and that men have a higher sense of justice.  The
exclusive affections of women seem indeed to resemble Cato's most unjust love for his country.
He wished to crush Carthage, not to save Rome, but to promote its vain glory; and in general,
it is to similar principles that humanity is sacrificed, for genuine duties support each other.

Besides, how can women be just or generous, when they are the slaves of injustice.

SECTION 13.5.

As the rearing of children, that is, the laying a foundation of sound health both of body and
mind in the rising generation, has justly been insisted on as the peculiar destination of woman,
the ignorance that incapacitates them must be contrary to the order of things.  And I contend,
that their minds can take in much more, and ought to do so, or they will never become sensible
mothers.  Many men attend to the breeding of horses, and overlook the management of the stable,
who would, strange want of sense and feeling! think themselves degraded by paying any attention
to the nursery; yet, how many children are absolutely murdered by the ignorance of women! 
But when they escape, and are neither destroyed by unnatural negligence nor blind fondness,
how few are managed properly with respect to the infant mind!  So that to break the spirit,
allowed to become vicious at home, a child is sent to school; and the methods taken there,
which must be taken to keep a number of children in order, scatter the seeds of almost every
vice in the soil thus forcibly torn up.

I have sometimes compared the struggles of these poor children who ought never to have felt
restraint, nor would, had they been always held in with an even hand, to the despairing plunges
of a spirited filly, which I have seen breaking on a strand;  its feet sinking deeper and deeper
in the sand every time it endeavoured to throw its rider, till at last it sullenly submitted.

I have always found horses, an animal I am attached to, very tractable when treated with humanity
and steadiness, so that I doubt whether the violent methods taken to break them, do not essentially
injure them; I am, however, certain that a child should never be thus forcibly tamed after
it has injudiciously been allowed to run wild; for every violation of justice and reason, in
the treatment of children, weakens their reason.  And, so early do they catch a character,
that the base of the moral character, experience leads me to infer, is fixed before their seventh
year, the period during which women are allowed the sole management of children.  Afterwards
it too often happens that half the business of education is to correct, and very imperfectly
is it done, if done hastily, the faults, which they would never have acquired if their mothers
had had more understanding.

One striking instance of the folly of women must not be omitted. The manner in which they treat
servants in the presence of children, permitting them to suppose, that they ought to wait on
them, and bear their humours.  A child should always be made to receive assistance from a man
or woman as a favour; and, as the first lesson of independence, they should practically be
taught, by the example of their mother, not to require that personal attendance which it is
an insult to humanity to require, when in health; and instead of being led to assume airs of
consequence, a sense of their own weakness should first make them feel the natural equality
of man.  Yet, how frequently have I indignantly heard servants imperiously called to put children
to bed, and sent away again and again, because master or miss hung about mamma, to stay a little
longer.  Thus made slavishly to attend the little idol, all those most disgusting humours were
exhibited which characterize a spoiled child.

In short, speaking of the majority of mothers, they leave their children entirely to the care
of servants: or, because they are their children, treat them as if they were little demi-gods,
though I have always observed, that the women who thus idolize their children, seldom show
common humanity to servants, or feel the least tenderness for any children but their own.