"The Communist International said from the very first day of its existence: 'There are four
times as many people living in Asia as live in Europe. We will free all peoples, all who labour.'...
We know that the labouring masses of the East are in part retrograde, though not by their own
fault; they cannot read or write, are ignorant, are bound in superstition, believe in the evil
spirit, are unable to read any newspapers, do not know what is happening in the world, have
not the slightest idea of the most elementary laws of hygiene. Comrades, our Moscow International
discussed the question whether a socialist revolution could take place in the countries of
the East before those countries had passed through the capitalist stage. You know that the
view which long prevailed was that every country must first go through the period of capitalism
... before socialism could become a live question. We now believe that this is no longer true.
Russia has done this, and from that moment we are able to say that China, India, Turkey, Persia,
Armenia also can, and must, make a direct fight to get the Soviet System. These countries can,
and must, prepare themselves to be Soviet republics.

"I say that we give patient aid to groups of persons who do not believe in our ideas, who are
even opposed to us on some points. In this way, the Soviet Government supports Kemal in Turkey.
Never for one moment do we forget that the movement headed by Kemal is not a communist movement.
We know it. I have here extracts from the verbatim reports of the first session of the Turkish
people's Government at Angora. Kemal himself says that 'the Caliph's person is sacred and inviolable.'
The movement headed by Kemal wants to rescue the Caliph's 'sacred' person from the hands of
the foe. That is the Turkish Nationalist's point of view. But is it a communist point of view?
No. We respect the religious convictions of the masses; we know how to re-educate the masses.
It will be the work of years.

"We use great caution in approaching the religious convictions of the labouring masses in the
East and elsewhere. But at this Congress we are bound to tell you that you must not do what
the Kemal Government is doing in Turkey; you must not support the power of the Sultan, not
even if religious considerations urge you to do so. You must press on, and must not allow yourselves
to be pulled back. We believe the Sultan's hour has struck. You must not allow any form of
autocratic power to continue; you must destroy, you must annihilate, faith in the Sultan; you
must struggle to obtain real Soviet organizations. The Russian peasants also were strong believers
in the Czar; but when a true people's revolution broke out there was practically nothing left
of this faith in the Czar. The same thing will happen in Turkey and all over the East as soon
as a true peasants' revolution shall burst forth over the surface of the black earth. The people
will very soon lose faith in their Sultan and in their masters. We say once more, the policy
pursued by the present people's Government in Turkey is not the policy of the Communist International,
it is not our policy; nevertheless, we declare that we are prepared to support any revolutionary
fight against the English Government.

"Yes, we array ourselves against the English bourgeoisie; we seize the English imperialist
by the throat and tread him underfoot. It is against English capitalism that the worst, the
most fatal blow must be dealt. That is so. But at the same time we must educate the labouring
masses of the East to hatred, to the will to fight the whole of the rich classes indifferently,
whoever they be. The great significance of the revolution now starting in the East does not
consist in begging the English imperialist to take his feet off the table, for the purpose
of then permitting the wealthy Turk to place his feet on it all the more comfortably; no, we
will very politely ask all the rich to remove their dirty feet from the table, so that there
may be no luxuriousness among us, no boasting, no contempt of the people, no idleness, but
that the world may be ruled by the worker's horny hand."

The Baku congress was the opening gun in Bolshevism's avowed campaign for the immediate Bolshevizing
of the East. It was followed by increased Soviet activity and by substantial Soviet successes,
especially in the Caucasus, where both Georgia and Armenia were Bolshevized in the spring of 1921.

These very successes, however, awakened growing uneasiness among Soviet Russia's nationalist
protégés. The various Oriental nationalist parties, which had at first welcomed Moscow's aid
so enthusiastically against the Entente Powers, now began to realize that Russian Bolshevism
might prove as great a peril as Western imperialism to their patriotic aspirations. Of course
the nationalist leaders had always realized Moscow's ultimate goal, but hitherto they had felt
themselves strong enough to control the situation and to take Russian aid without paying Moscow's
price. Now they no longer felt so sure. The numbers of class-conscious "proletarians" in the
East might be very small. The communist philosophy might be virtually unintelligible to the
Oriental masses. Nevertheless, the very existence of Soviet Russia was a warning not to be
disregarded. In Russia an infinitesimal communist minority, numbering, by its own admission,
not much over 600,000, was maintaining an unlimited despotism over 170,000,000 people. Western
countries might rely on their popular education and their staunch traditions of ordered liberty;
the East possessed no such bulwarks against Bolshevism. The East was, in fact, much like Russia.
There was the same dense ignorance of the masses; the same absence of a large and powerful
middle class; the same tradition of despotism; the same popular acquiescence in the rule of
ruthless minorities. Finally, there were the ominous examples of Sovietized Turkestan and Azerbaidjan.
In fine, Oriental nationalists bethought them of the old adage that he who sups with the devil
needs a long spoon.

Everywhere it has been the same story. In Asia Minor, Mustapha Kemal has arrested Bolshevist
propaganda agents, while Turkish and Russian troops have more than once clashed on the disputed
Caucasus frontiers. In Egypt we have already seen how an amicable arrangement between Lord
Milner and the Egyptian nationalist leaders was facilitated by the latter's fear of the social
revolutionary agitators who were inflaming the fellaheen. In India, Sir Valentine Chirol noted
as far back as the spring of 1918 how Russia's collapse into Bolshevism had had a "sobering
effect" on Indian public opinion. "The more thoughtful Indians," he wrote, "now see how helpless
even the Russian intelligentsia (relatively far more numerous and matured than the Indian intelligentsia)
has proved to control the great ignorant masses as soon as the whole fabric of government has
been hastily shattered."[304] In Afghanistan, likewise, the Ameer was losing his love for his
Bolshevist allies. The streams of refugees from Sovietized Turkestan that flowed across his
borders for protection, headed by his kinsman the Ameer of Bokhara, made Amanullah Khan do
some hard thinking, intensified by a serious mutiny of Afghan troops on the Russian border,
the mutineers demanding the right to form Soldiers' Councils quite on the Russian pattern.
Bolshevist agents might tempt him by the loot of India, but the Ameer could also see that that
would do him little good if he himself were to be looted and killed by his own rebellious subjects.[305]
Thus, as time went on, Oriental nationalists and conservatives generally tended to close ranks
in dislike and apprehension of Bolshevism. Had there been no other issue involved, there can
be little doubt that Moscow's advances would have been repelled and Bolshevist agents given
short shrift.

Unfortunately, the Eastern nationalists feel themselves between the Bolshevist devil and the
Western imperialist deep sea. The upshot has been that they have been trying to play off the
one against the other--driven toward Moscow by every Entente aggression; driven toward the
West by every Soviet coup of Lenin. Western statesmen should realize this, and should remember
that Bolshevism's best propagandist agent is, not Zinoviev orating at Baku, but General Gouraud,
with his Senegalese battalions and "strong-arm" methods in Syria and the Arab hinterland.

Certainly, any extensive spread of Bolshevism in the East would be a terrible misfortune both
for the Orient and for the world at large. If the triumph of Bolshevism would mean barbarism
in the West, in the East it would spell downright savagery. The sudden release of the ignorant,
brutal Oriental masses from their traditional restraints of religion and custom, and the submergence
of the relatively small upper and middle classes by the flood of social revolution would mean
the destruction of all Oriental civilization and culture, and a plunge into an abyss of anarchy
from which the East could emerge only after generations, perhaps centuries.

FOOTNOTES:

[284] For these early forms of unrest, see A. Le Chatelier, L'Islam au dix-neuvième Siècle,
pp. 22-44 (Paris, 1888).

[288] Dr. Ronald Ross, "Wretchedness a Cause of Political Unrest," The Survey, 18 February, 1911.

[289] A. Yusuf Ali, Life and Labour in India, pp. 3, 32 (London, 1907).

[290] E. W. Capen, "A Sociological Appraisal of Western Influence on the Orient," American
Journal of Sociology, May, 1911.

[291] P. Khorat, "Psychologie de la Révolution chinoise," Revue des Deux Mondes, 15 March,
1912; L. Bertrand, Le Mirage orientale, pp. 164-166; J. D. Rees, The Real India, pp. 162-163.

[292] Albert Métin, L'Inde d'aujourd'hui: Étude sociale, p. 276 (Paris, 1918).

[293] Albert Métin, L'Inde d'aujourd'hui: Étude sociale, pp. 339-345.

[294] J. Ramsay Macdonald, The Government of India, pp. 133-134 (London, 1920).

[295] Georges Foucart. Quoted in The Literary Digest, 17 August, 1907, pp. 225-226.

[296] A. Van Gennep, En Algérie, p. 182 (Paris, 1914).

[297] The Englishman (Calcutta). Quoted in The Literary Digest, 21 February, 1914, p. 369.

[298] For these larger world-aspects of Bolshevik propaganda, see Paul Miliukov, Bolshevism:
An International Danger (London, 1920); also, my Rising Tide of Colour against White World-Supremacy,
pp. 218-221, and my article, "Bolshevism: The Heresy of the Under-Man," The Century, June, 1919.

[299] See Chapter V.

[300] See Chapter VI.

[301] For events in Afghanistan and Central Asia, see Sir T. H. Holdich, "The Influence of
Bolshevism in Afghanistan," New Europe, December 4, 1919; Ikbal Ali Shah, "The Fall of Bokhara,"
The Near East, October 28, 1920, and his "The Central Asian Tangle," Asiatic Review, October, 1920.

[302] Ikbal Ali Shah, op. cit. Also see H. H. The Aga Khan, India in Transition, p. 17 (London,
1918).

[305] Ikbal Ali Shah, op. cit.

CONCLUSION

Our survey of the Near and Middle East is at an end. What is the outstanding feature of that
survey? It is: Change. The "Immovable East" has been moved at last--moved to its very depths.
The Orient is to-day in full transition, flux, ferment, more sudden and profound than any it
has hitherto known. The world of Islam, mentally and spiritually quiescent for almost a thousand
years, is once more astir, once more on the march.

Whither? We do not know. Who would be bold enough to prophesy the outcome of this vast ferment--political,
economical, social, religious, and much more besides? All that we may wisely venture is to
observe, describe, and analyse the various elements in the great transition.

Yet surely this is much. To view, however empirically, the mighty transformation at work; to
group its multitudinous aspects in some sort of relativity; to follow the red threads of tendency
running through the tangled skein, is to gain at least provisional knowledge and acquire capacity
to grasp the significance of future developments as they shall successively arise.

"To know is to understand"--and to hope: to hope that this present travail, vast and ill-understood,
may be but the birth-pangs of a truly renascent East taking its place in a renascent world.

INDEX

Aali Pasha, Pan-Islam agitation of, 54

Abbas Hilmi, Khedive, pro Turkish views of, 155;
  deposition of, 156;
  Pan-Arabianism supported by, 170

Abd-el-Kader, French resisted by, 41

Abd-el-Malek Hamsa, Pro-Germanism of, 156

Abd-el-Wahab, Mohammedan revival begun by, 21, 40;
  birth of, 21;
  early life of, 22 ff.;
  influence of, 22;
  death of, 22

Abdul Hamid, despotism of, 32;
  as caliph, 39;
  Sennussi's opposition to, 39, 46;
  Djemal-ed-Din protected by, 53 ff.;
  Pan-Islam policy of, 53 ff.;
  character of, 54 ff.;
  government of, 55;
  deposition of, 56, 119;
  tyrannical policy of, 116;
  nationalism opposed by, 139, 165;
  Arabs conciliated by, 142 ff.

Abu Bekr 22;
  policy of, 114 ff.

Abyssinian Church, Mohammedan threat against, 50

Afghanistan, religious uprisings in, 41;
  nineteenth-century independence of, 118;
  Bolshevism in, 286 ff.;
  rebellion of, 286ff.

Africa, Mohammedan missionary work in, 49 ff.
  See also North Africa

Agadir crisis, 57

Ahmed Bey Agayeff, Pan-Turanism aided by, 165

Alexandria, massacre of Europeans in, 149

Algeria, French conquest of, 40, 158;
  Kabyle insurrection in, 41;
  compulsory vaccination in, 95;
  liberal political aspirations in, 118 ff.;
  need for European government in, 122

Allenby, General, Egypt in control of, 177

Amanullah Khan, Bolshevism of, 286;
  war on England declared by, 286;
  present policy of, 298

Anatolia, Bolshevist manifesto to, 292

Anglo-Russian Agreement, terms of, 159 ff.

Arabi Pasha, Djemal-ed-Din's influence on, 148;
  revolution in Egypt headed by, 148

Arabia, description of natives of, 21;
  Turks fought by, 23;
  defeat of, 23;
  political freedom of, 113;
  democracy in, 127;
  nationalist spirit in, 140 ff.;
  Turkish rulers opposed by, 140 ff.;
  suppression of, 143;
  1905 rebellion of, 143;
  effect of Young-Turk revolution on, 145 ff.;
  1916 revolt of, 146;
  Pan-Arabism in, 145;
  religious character of Pan-Arab movement in, 169 ff.;
  effect of Great War on, 170, 183 ff.;
  Allied encouragement of, 184;
  peace terms and, 185;
  English agreement with, 185 ff.;
  revolt against Turks of, 185;
  secret partition of, 185 ff.;
  Colonel Lawrence's influence in, 186;
  secret treaties revealed to, 187;
  France and England in, 187 ff.;
  Mustapha Kemal aided by 194, ff.;
  English negotiations with, 198;
  Bolshevist manifesto to, 292

Arabian National Committee, creation of, 143

Archer William, on over-population in India, 263

Argyll, Duke of, over-population in India, 263

Armenia, Bolshevist manifesto to, 292

Arya Somaj, 208

Atchin War, 41

Azerbaidjan, Bolshevist revolution in, 290 ff.

Babbist movement in Persia, 274

Baber, Mogul Empire founded by, 204

Baku, Congress of Eastern Peoples at, 291, 297

Balkan War, 57;
  Mohammedans roused by, 58

Barbary States, French conquest of, 158

Bérard, Victor, on the enmity of Turks and Arabs, 141 ff.;
  France's Syrian policy criticised by, 199

Bertrand, Louis, anti-Western feeling in Orient described by, 95 ff.;
  on social conditions in the Levant, 269, 271

Bevan, Edwyn, nationalist views of, 125 ff.

Bin Saud, Ikhwan movement led by, 72

