And then Sir Florian fell in love. Discussing this matter with his brother, who was perhaps
his only intimate friend, he declared that if the girl he loved would give herself to him,
he would make what atonement he could to her for his own early death by a princely settlement.
John Eustace, who was somewhat nearly concerned in the matter, raised no objection to this
proposal. There was ever something grand about these Eustaces. Sir Florian was a grand gentleman;
but surely he must have been dull of intellect, slow of discernment, blear-eyed in his ways
about the town, when he took Lizzie Greystock,--of all the women whom he could find in the
world,--to be the purest, the truest, and the noblest. It has been said of Sir Florian that
he did not believe in virtue. He freely expressed disbelief in the virtue of women around him,--in
the virtue of women of all ranks. But he believed in his mother and sisters as though they
were heaven-born; and he was one who could believe in his wife as though she were the queen
of heaven. He did believe in Lizzie Greystock, thinking that intellect, purity, truth, and
beauty, each perfect in its degree, were combined in her. The intellect and beauty were there;--but,
for the purity and truth--; how could it have been that such a one as Sir Florian Eustace should
have been so blind!

Sir Florian was not, indeed, a clever man; but he believed himself to be a fool. And believing
himself to be a fool, he desired, nay, painfully longed, for some of those results of cleverness
which might, he thought, come to him, from contact with a clever woman. Lizzie read poetry
well, and she read verses to him,--sitting very near to him, almost in the dark, with a shaded
lamp throwing its light on her book. He was astonished to find how sweet a thing was poetry.
By himself he could never read a line, but as it came from her lips it seemed to charm him.
It was a new pleasure, and one which, though he had ridiculed it, he had so often coveted!
And then she told him of such wondrous thoughts,--such wondrous joys in the world which would
come from thinking! He was proud, I have said, and haughty; but he was essentially modest and
humble in his self-estimation. How divine was this creature, whose voice to him was as that
of a goddess!

Then he spoke out to her, with his face a little turned from her. Would she be his wife? But,
before she answered him, let her listen to him. They had told him that an early death must
probably be his fate. He did not himself feel that it must be so. Sometimes he was ill,--very
ill; but often he was well. If she would run the risk with him he would endeavour to make her
such recompense as might come from his wealth. The speech he made was somewhat long, and as
he made it he hardly looked into her face.

But it was necessary to him that he should be made to know by some signal from her how it was
going with her feelings. As he spoke of his danger, there came a gurgling little trill of wailing
from her throat, a soft, almost musical sound of woe, which seemed to add an unaccustomed eloquence
to his words. When he spoke of his own hope the sound was somewhat changed, but it was still
continued. When he alluded to the disposition of his fortune, she was at his feet. "Not that,"
she said, "not that!" He lifted her, and with his arm round her waist he tried to tell her
what it would be his duty to do for her. She escaped from his arm and would not listen to him.
But,--but--! When he began to talk of love again, she stood with her forehead bowed against
his bosom. Of course the engagement was then a thing accomplished.

But still the cup might slip from her lips. Her father was now dead but ten months, and what
answer could she make when the common pressing petition for an early marriage was poured into
her ear? This was in July, and it would never do that he should be left, unmarried, to the
rigour of another winter. She looked into his face and knew that she had cause for fear. Oh,
heavens! if all these golden hopes should fall to the ground, and she should come to be known
only as the girl who had been engaged to the late Sir Florian! But he himself pressed the marriage
on the same ground. "They tell me," he said, "that I had better get a little south by the beginning
of October. I won't go alone. You know what I mean;--eh, Lizzie?" Of course she married him
in September.

They spent a honeymoon of six weeks at a place he had in Scotland, and the first blow came
upon him as they passed through London, back from Scotland, on their way to Italy. Messrs.
Harter and Benjamin sent in their little bill, which amounted to something over £400, and other
little bills were sent in. Sir Florian was a man by whom such bills would certainly be paid,
but by whom they would not be paid without his understanding much and conceiving more as to
their cause and nature. How much he really did understand she was never quite aware;--but she
did know that he detected her in a positive falsehood. She might certainly have managed the
matter better than she did; and had she admitted everything there might probably have been
but few words about it. She did not, however, understand the nature of the note she had signed,
and thought that simply new bills would be presented by the jewellers to her husband. She gave
a false account of the transaction, and the lie was detected. I do not know that she cared
very much. As she was utterly devoid of true tenderness, so also was she devoid of conscience.
They went abroad, however; and by the time the winter was half over in Naples, he knew what
his wife was;--and before the end of the spring he was dead.

She had so far played her game well, and had won her stakes. What regrets, what remorse she
suffered when she knew that he was going from her,--and then knew that he was gone, who can
say? As man is never strong enough to take unmixed delight in good, so may we presume also
that he cannot be quite so weak as to find perfect satisfaction in evil. There must have been
qualms as she looked at his dying face, soured with the disappointment she had brought upon
him, and listened to the harsh querulous voice that was no longer eager in the expressions
of love. There must have been some pang when she reflected that the cruel wrong which she had
inflicted on him had probably hurried him to his grave. As a widow, in the first solemnity
of her widowhood, she was wretched and would see no one. Then she returned to England and shut
herself up in a small house at Brighton. Lady Linlithgow offered to go to her, but she begged
that she might be left to herself. For a few short months the awe arising from the rapidity
with which it had all occurred did afflict her. Twelve months since she had hardly known the
man who was to be her husband. Now she was a widow,--a widow very richly endowed,--and she
bore beneath her bosom the fruit of her husband's love.

But, even in these early days, friends and enemies did not hesitate to say that Lizzie Greystock
had done very well with herself; for it was known by all concerned that in the settlements
made she had been treated with unwonted generosity.

CHAPTER II

Lady Eustace

There were circumstances in her position which made it impossible that Lizzie Greystock,--or
Lady Eustace, as we must now call her,--should be left altogether to herself in the modest
widow's retreat which she had found at Brighton. It was then April, and it was known that if
all things went well with her, she would be a mother before the summer was over. On what the
Fates might ordain in this matter immense interests were dependent. If a son should be born
he would inherit everything, subject, of course, to his mother's settlement. If a daughter,
to her would belong the great personal wealth which Sir Florian had owned at the time of his
death. Should there be no son, John Eustace, the brother, would inherit the estates in Yorkshire
which had been the backbone of the Eustace wealth. Should no child be born, John Eustace would
inherit everything that had not been settled upon or left to the widow. Sir Florian had made
a settlement immediately before his marriage, and a will immediately afterwards. Of what he
had done then, nothing had been altered in those sad Italian days. The settlement had been
very generous. The whole property in Scotland was to belong to Lizzie for her life,--and after
her death was to go to a second son, if such second son there should be. By the will money
was left to her, more than would be needed for any possible temporary emergency. When she knew
how it was all arranged,--as far as she did know it,--she was aware that she was a rich woman.
For so clever a woman she was infinitely ignorant as to the possession and value of money and
land and income,--though, perhaps, not more ignorant than are most young girls under twenty-one.
As for the Scotch property,--she thought that it was her own, for ever, because there could
not now be a second son,--and yet was not quite sure whether it would be her own at all if
she had no son. Concerning that sum of money left to her, she did not know whether it was to
come out of the Scotch property or be given to her separately,--and whether it was to come
annually or to come only once. She had received, while still in Naples, a letter from the family
lawyer, giving her such details of the will as it was necessary that she should know, and now
she longed to ask questions, to have her belongings made plain to her, and to realise her wealth.
She had brilliant prospects; and yet, through it all, there was a sense of loneliness that
nearly killed her. Would it not have been much better if her husband had lived, and still worshipped
her, and still allowed her to read poetry to him? But she had read no poetry to him after that
affair of Messrs. Harter and Benjamin.

The reader has, or will have, but little to do with these days, and may be hurried on through
the twelve, or even twenty-four months which followed the death of poor Sir Florian. The question
of the heirship, however, was very grave, and early in the month of May Lady Eustace was visited
by her husband's uncle, Bishop Eustace, of Bobsborough. The bishop had been the younger brother
of Sir Florian's father,--was at this time a man about fifty, very active and very popular,--and
was one who stood high in the world, even among bishops. He suggested to his niece-in-law that
it was very expedient that, during her coming hour of trial, she should not absent herself
from her husband's family, and at last persuaded her to take up her residence at the palace
at Bobsborough till such time as the event should be over. Lady Eustace was taken to the palace,
and in due time a son was born. John, who was now the uncle of the heir, came down, and, with
the frankest good humour, declared that he would devote himself to the little head of the family.
He had been left as guardian, and the management of the great family estates was to be in his
hands. Lizzie had read no poetry to him, and he had never liked her, and the bishop did not
like her, and the ladies of the bishop's family disliked her very much, and it was thought
by them that the dean's people,--the Dean of Bobsborough was Lizzie's uncle,--were not very
fond of Lizzie since Lizzie had so raised herself in the world as to want no assistance from
them. But still they were bound to do their duty by her as the widow of the late and the mother
of the present baronet. And they did not find much cause of complaining as to Lizzie's conduct
in these days. In that matter of the great family diamond necklace,--which certainly should
not have been taken to Naples at all, and as to which the jeweller had told the lawyer and
the lawyer had told John Eustace that it certainly should not now be detained among the widow's
own private property,--the bishop strongly recommended that nothing should be said at present.
The mistake, if there was a mistake, could be remedied at any time. And nothing in those very
early days was said about the great Eustace necklace, which afterwards became so famous.

Why Lizzie should have been so generally disliked by the Eustaces, it might be hard to explain.
While she remained at the palace she was very discreet,--and perhaps demure. It may be said
they disliked her expressed determination to cut her aunt, Lady Linlithgow;--for they knew
that Lady Linlithgow had been, at any rate, a friend to Lizzie Greystock. There are people
who can be wise within a certain margin, but beyond that commit great imprudences. Lady Eustace
submitted herself to the palace people for that period of her prostration, but she could not
hold her tongue as to her future intentions. She would, too, now and then ask of Mrs. Eustace,
and even of her daughter, an eager, anxious question about her own property. "She is dying
to handle her money," said Mrs. Eustace to the bishop. "She is only like the rest of the world
in that," said the bishop. "If she would be really open, I wouldn't mind it," said Mrs. Eustace.
None of them liked her,--and she did not like them.

She remained at the palace for six months, and at the end of that time she went to her own
place in Scotland. Mrs. Eustace had strongly advised her to ask her aunt, Lady Linlithgow,
to accompany her, but in refusing to do this, Lizzie was quite firm. She had endured Lady Linlithgow
for that year between her father's death and her marriage; she was now beginning to dare to
hope for the enjoyment of the good things which she had won, and the presence of the dowager-countess,--"the
vulturess,"--was certainly not one of these good things. In what her enjoyment was to consist,
she had not as yet quite formed a definite conclusion. She liked jewels. She liked admiration.
She liked the power of being arrogant to those around her. And she liked good things to eat.
But there were other matters that were also dear to her. She did like music,--though it may
be doubted whether she would ever play it or even listen to it alone. She did like reading,
and especially the reading of poetry,--though even in this she was false and pretentious, skipping,
pretending to have read, lying about books, and making up her market of literature for outside
admiration at the easiest possible cost of trouble. And she had some dream of being in love,
and would take delight even in building castles in the air, which she would people with friends
and lovers whom she would make happy with the most open-hearted benevolence. She had theoretical
ideas of life which were not bad,--but in practice, she had gained her objects, and she was
in a hurry to have liberty to enjoy them.

There was considerable anxiety in the palace in reference to the future mode of life of Lady
Eustace. Had it not been for that baby-heir, of course there would have been no cause for interference;
but the rights of that baby were so serious and important that it was almost impossible not
to interfere. The mother, however, gave some little signs that she did not intend to submit
to much interference, and there was no real reason why she should not be as free as air. But
did she really intend to go down to Portray Castle all alone;--that is, with her baby and nurses?
This was ended by an arrangement, in accordance with which she was accompanied by her eldest
cousin, Ellinor Greystock, a lady who was just ten years her senior. There could hardly be
a better woman than Ellinor Greystock,--or a more good-humoured, kindly being. After many debates
in the deanery and in the palace,--for there was much friendship between the two ecclesiastical
establishments,--the offer was made and the advice given. Ellinor had accepted the martyrdom
on the understanding that if the advice were accepted she was to remain at Portray Castle for
three months. After a long discussion between Lady Eustace and the bishop's wife the offer
was accepted, and the two ladies went to Scotland together.

During those three months the widow still bided her time. Of her future ideas of life she said
not a word to her companion. Of her infant she said very little. She would talk of books,--choosing
such books as her cousin did not read; and she would interlard her conversation with much Italian,
because her cousin did not know the language. There was a carriage kept by the widow, and they
had themselves driven out together. Of real companionship there was none. Lizzie was biding
her time, and at the end of the three months Miss Greystock thankfully, and, indeed, of necessity,
returned to Bobsborough. "I've done no good," she said to her mother, "and have been very uncomfortable."
"My dear," said her mother, "we have disposed of three months out of a two years' period of
danger. In two years from Sir Florian's death she will be married again."

