     "And articles of commerce they may need or furnish, and to what
     extent.

     "And, considering the interest which every nation has in extending
     and strengthening the authority of reason and justice among the
     people around them, it will be useful to acquire what knowledge you
     can of the state of morality, religion, and information among them;
     as it may better enable those who may endeavour to civilize and
     instruct them, to adapt their measures to the existing notions and
     practices of those on whom they are to operate.

     "Other objects worthy of notice will be--

     "The soil and face of the country, its growth and vegetable
     productions, especially those not of the United States;

     "The animals of the country generally, and especially those not
     known in the United States;

     "The remains and accounts of any which may be deemed rare or
     extinct;

     "The mineral productions of every kind, but more particularly
     metals, lime-stone, pit-coal, and saltpetre; salines and mineral
     waters, noting the temperature of the last, and such circumstances
     as may indicate their character;

     "Volcanic appearances;

     "Climate, as characterized by the thermometer, by the proportion of
     rainy, cloudy, and clear days; by lightning, hail, snow, ice; by
     the access and recess of frost; by the winds prevailing at
     different seasons; the dates at which particular plants put forth,
     or lose their flower or leaf; times of appearance of particular
     birds, reptiles or insects.

     "Although your route will be along the channel of the Missouri, yet
     you will endeavour to inform yourself, by inquiry, of the character
     and extent of the country watered by its branches, and especially
     on its southern side. The North river, or Rio Bravo, which runs
     into the gulf of Mexico, and the North river, or Rio Colorado,
     which runs into the gulf of California, are understood to be the
     principal streams heading opposite to the waters of the Missouri,
     and running southwardly. Whether the dividing grounds between the
     Missouri and them are mountains or flat lands, what are their
     distance from the Missouri, the character of the intermediate
     country, and the people inhabiting it, are worthy of particular
     inquiry. The northern waters of the Missouri are less to be
     inquired after, because they have been ascertained to a
     considerable degree, and are still in a course of ascertainment by
     English traders and travellers; but if you can learn any thing
     certain of the most northern source of the Missisipi, and of its
     position relatively to the Lake of the Woods, it will be
     interesting to us. Some account too of the path of the Canadian
     traders from the Missisipi, at the mouth of the Onisconsing to
     where it strikes the Missouri, and of the soil and rivers in its
     course, is desirable. If any of them should wish to have some of
     their young people brought up with us, and taught such arts as may
     be useful to them, we will receive, instruct, and take care of
     them. Such a mission, whether of influential chiefs, or of young
     people, would give some security to your own party. Carry with you
     some matter of the kine-pox; inform those of them with whom you may
     be of its efficacy as a preservative from the small-pox, and
     instruct and encourage them in the use of it. This may be
     especially done wherever you winter.

     "As it is impossible for us to foresee in what manner you will be
     received by those people, whether with hospitality or hostility, so
     is it impossible to prescribe the exact degree of perseverance with
     which you are to pursue your journey. We value too much the lives
     of citizens to offer them to probable destruction. Your numbers
     will be sufficient to secure you against the unauthorized
     opposition of individuals, or of small parties; but if a superior
     force, authorized, or not authorized, by a nation, should be
     arrayed against your further passage, and inflexibly determined to
     arrest it, you must decline its further pursuit and return. In the
     loss of yourselves we should lose also the information you will
     have acquired. By returning safely with that, you may enable us to
     renew the essay with better calculated means. To your own
     discretion, therefore, must be left the degree of danger you may
     risk, and the point at which you should decline, only saying, we
     wish you to err on the side of your safety, and to bring back your
     party safe, even if it be with less information.

     "As far up the Missouri as the white settlements extend, an
     intercourse will probably be found to exist between them and the
     Spanish posts of St. Louis opposite Cahokia, or St. Genevieve
     opposite Kaskaskia. From still further up the river the traders may
     furnish a conveyance for letters. Beyond that you may perhaps be
     able to engage Indians to bring letters for the government to
     Cahokia, or Kaskaskia, on promising that they shall there receive
     such special compensation as you shall have stipulated with them.
     Avail yourself of these means to communicate to us, at seasonable
     intervals, a copy of your journal, notes and observations of every
     kind, putting into cypher whatever might do injury if betrayed.

     "Should you reach the Pacific ocean, inform yourself of the
     circumstances which may decide whether the furs of those parts may
     not be collected as advantageously at the head of the Missouri
     (convenient as is supposed to the waters of the Colorado and Oregan
     or Columbia) as at Nootka Sound, or any other point of that coast;
     and that trade be consequently conducted through the Missouri and
     United States more beneficially than by the circumnavigation now
     practised.

     "On your arrival on that coast, endeavour to learn if there be any
     port within your reach frequented by the sea vessels of any nation,
     and to send two of your trusty people back by sea, in such way as
     shall appear practicable, with a copy of your notes; and should you
     be of opinion that the return of your party by the way they went
     will be imminently dangerous, then ship the whole, and return by
     sea, by the way either of Cape Horn, or the Cape of Good Hope, as
     you shall be able.

     "Should you find it safe to return by the way you go, after sending
     two of your party round by sea, or with your whole party, if no
     conveyance by sea can be found, do so; making such observations on
     your return as may serve to supply, correct, or confirm those made
     on your outward journey.

     "On reentering the United States and reaching a place of safety,
     discharge any of your attendants who may desire and deserve it,
     procuring for them immediate payment of all arrears of pay and
     clothing which may have incurred since their departure, and assure
     them that they shall be recommended to the liberality of the
     legislature for the grant of a soldier's portion of land each, as
     proposed in my message to congress, and repair yourself, with your
     papers, to the seat of government.

     "To provide, on the accident of your death, against anarchy,
     dispersion, and the consequent danger to your party, and total
     failure of the enterprise, you are hereby authorized, by any
     instrument signed and written in your own hand, to name the person
     among them who shall succeed to the command on your decease, and by
     like instruments to change the nomination, from time to time, as
     further experience of the characters accompanying you shall point
     out superior fitness; and all the powers and authorities given to
     yourself are, in the event of your death, transferred to, and
     vested in the successor so named, with further power to him and his
     successors, in like manner to name each his successor, who, on the
     death of his predecessor, shall be invested with all the powers and
     authorities given to yourself. Given under my hand at the city of
     Washington, this twentieth day of June, 1803.

                                        "THOMAS JEFFERSON,
                          "President of the United States of America."

While these things were going on here, the country of Louisiana, lately ceded by Spain to France,
had been the subject of negotiation at Paris between us and this last power; and had actually
been transferred to us by treaties executed at Paris on the thirtieth of April. This information,
received about the first day of July, increased infinitely the interest we felt in the expedition,
and lessened the apprehensions of interruption from other powers. Every thing in this quarter
being now prepared, captain Lewis left Washington on the fifth of July, 1803, and proceeded
to Pittsburg, where other articles had been ordered to be provided for him. The men too were
to be selected from the military stations on the Ohio. Delays of preparation, difficulties
of navigation down the Ohio, and other untoward obstructions, retarded his arrival at Cahokia
until the season was so far advanced as to render it prudent to suspend his entering the Missouri
before the ice should break up in the succeeding spring.

From this time his journal, now published, will give the history of his journey to and from
the Pacific ocean, until his return to St. Louis on the twenty-third of September, 1806. Never
did a similar event excite more joy through the United States. The humblest of its citizens
had taken a lively interest in the issue of this journey, and looked forward with impatience
for the information it would furnish. Their anxieties too for the safety of the corps had been
kept in a state of excitement by lugubrious rumours, circulated from time to time on uncertain
authorities, and uncontradicted by letters, or other direct information, from the time they
had left the Mandan towns, on their ascent up the river in April of the preceding year, 1805,
until their actual return to St. Louis.

It was the middle of February, 1807, before captain Lewis, with his companion captain Clarke,
reached the city of Washington, where congress was then in session. That body granted to the
two chiefs and their followers the donation of lands which they had been encouraged to expect
in reward of their toil and dangers. Captain Lewis was soon after appointed governor of Louisiana,
and captain Clarke a general of its militia, and agent of the United States for Indian affairs
in that department.

A considerable time intervened before the governor's arrival at St. Louis. Mr. Neely, agent
of the United States with the Chickasaw Indians, arriving there two days after, found him extremely
indisposed, and betraying at times some symptoms of a derangement of mind. The rumours of a
war with England, and apprehensions that he might lose the papers he was bringing on, among
which were the vouchers of his public accounts, and the journals and papers of his western
expedition, induced him here to change his mind, and to take his course by land through the
Chickasaw country. Although he appeared somewhat relieved, Mr. Neely kindly determined to accompany
and watch over him. Unfortunately, at their encampment, after having passed the Tennessee one
day's journey, they lost two horses, which obliging Mr. Neely to halt for their recovery, the
governor proceeded, under a promise to wait for him at the house of the first white inhabitant
on his road. He stopped at the house of a Mr. Grinder, who not being at home, his wife, alarmed
at the symptoms of derangement she discovered, gave him up the house and retired to rest herself
in an out-house, the governor's and Neely's servants lodging in another. About three o'clock
in the night he did the deed which plunged his friends into affliction, and deprived his country
of one of her most valued citizens, whose valour and intelligence would have been now employed
in avenging the wrongs of his country, and in emulating by land the splendid deeds which have
honoured her arms on the ocean. It lost too to the nation the benefit of receiving from his
own hand the narrative now offered them of his sufferings and successes, in endeavouring to
extend for them the boundaries of science, and to present to their knowledge that vast and
fertile country, which their sons are destined to fill with arts, with science, with freedom
and happiness.

To this melancholy close of the life of one, whom posterity will declare not to have lived
in vain, I have only to add, that all the facts I have stated are either known to myself, or
communicated by his family or others, for whose truth I have no hesitation to make myself responsible;
and I conclude with tendering you the assurances of my respect and consideration.

                                                  TH. JEFFERSON.

Mr. PAUL ALLEN, Philadelphia.

                                CONTENTS.

                                 VOL. I.

                                CHAPTER I.

          The party set out on the expedition and pass Wood
          river. Description of the town of St. Charles. Osage
          Woman river. Gasconade and Osage rivers described.
          Character of the Osage Indians; curious traditionary
          account of their origin. The party proceed and pass
          the Mine river. The two Charitons. The Kanzas,
          Nodawa, Newahaw, Neeshuabatona, Little Nemahar, each
          of which are particularly described. They encamp at
          the mouth of the river Platte. A particular
          description of the surrounding country. The various
          creeks, bays, islands, prairies, &c. given in the
          course of the route.                                    1

                               CHAPTER II.

          Some account of the Pawnee Indians. Council held
          with the Otto and Missouri Indians. Council held
          with another party of the Ottoes. Death of sergeant
          Floyd. The party encamp near the mouth of Whitestone
          river. The character of the Missouri, with the
          rivers that enter it. The surrounding country. The
          various islands, bays, creeks, &c. given in the
          course of the expedition.                              32

                              CHAPTER III.

          Whimsical instance of superstition of the Sioux
          Indians. Council held with the Sioux. Character of
          that tribe, their manners, &c. A ridiculous instance
          of their heroism. Ancient fortifications. Quieurre
          river described. Vast herds of Buffaloe. Account of
          the Petit Chien or Little Dog. Narrow escape of
          George Shannon. Description of White river.
          Surprising fleetness of the antelope. Pass the river
          of the Sioux. Description of the Grand Le Tour, or
          Great Bend. Encamp on the Teton river.                 52

                               CHAPTER IV.

          Council held with the Tetons. Their manners, dances,
          &c. Cheyenne river described. Council held with the
          Ricara Indians. Their manners and habits. Strange
          instance of Ricara idolatry. Another instance.
          Cannonball river. Arrival among the Mandans.
          Character of the surrounding country, and of the
          creeks, islands, &c.                                   82

                                CHAPTER V.

          Council held with the Mandans. A prairie on fire,
          and a singular instance of preservation. Peace
          established between the Mandans and Ricaras. The
          party encamp for the winter. Indian mode of catching
          goats. Beautiful appearance of northern lights.
          Friendly character of the Indians. Some account of
          the Mandans. The Anahaways and the Minnetarees. The
          party acquire the confidence of the Mandans by
          taking part in their controversy with the Sioux.
          Religion of the Mandans, and their singular
          conception of the term medicine. Their tradition.
          The sufferings of the party from the severity of the
          season. Indian game of billiards described.
          Character of the Missouri, of the surrounding
          country, and of the rivers, creeks, islands, &c.      118

                               CHAPTER VI.

          The party increase in the favour of the Mandans.
          Description of a buffaloe dance. Medicine dance. The
          fortitude with which the Indians bear the severity
          of the season. Distress of the party for want of
          provisions. The great importance of the blacksmith
          in procuring it. Depredations of the Sioux. The
          homage paid to the medicine stone. Summary act of
          justice among the Minnetarees. The process by which
          the Mandans and Ricaras make beads. Character of the
          Missouri, of the surrounding country, and of the
          rivers, creeks, islands, &c.                          148

                               CHAPTER VII.

          Indian method of attacking the buffaloe on the ice.
          An enumeration of the presents sent to the president
          of the United States. The party are visited by a
          Ricara chief. They leave their encampment, and
          proceed on their journey. Description of the Little
          Missouri. Some account of the Assiniboins. Their
          mode of burying the dead. Whiteearth river
          described. Great quantity of salt discovered on its
          banks. Yellowstone river described. A particular
          account of the country at the confluence of the
          Yellowstone and Missouri. Description of the
          Missouri, the surrounding country, and of the
          rivers, creeks, islands, &c.                          174

                               CHAPTER VIII.

          Unusual appearance of salt. The formidable character
          of the white bear. Porcupine river described.
          Beautiful appearance of the surrounding country.
          Immense quantities of game. Milk river described.
          Extraordinary character of Bigdry river. An instance
          of uncommon tenacity of life in a white bear. Narrow
          escape of one of the party from that animal. A still
          more remarkable instance. Muscleshell river
          described.                                            199

                               CHAPTER IX.

