     SIR,--At last a ray of sanity has fallen like oil on the troubled
     waters of the Irish controversy and has given a well-merited cold
     douche to the extremists on either side. It is now acknowledged
     that what for want of a better term I may call the Federal Solution
     holds the field, and any attempt to expel it will only plunge the
     objector still deeper in the mire and cover him with ridicule from
     head to foot.

     Long ago I adumbrated in the clearest possible way the fundamental
     outlines of this solution, and every hour which has passed has only
     sufficed, to strengthen a conviction which was already so deeply
     rooted as to be beyond the reach of hostile argument. What is now
     required to be done may be stated in a nutshell. Let the Government
     withdraw the present Home Rule Bill. They will thus dispose at once
     of the opposition of Mr. BONAR LAW, Sir EDWARD CARSON, Mr. J. L.
     GARVIN and Mr. WILLIAM O'BRIEN, and will provide themselves with a
     clean slate, which will be a peg on which any subsequent plan may
     be hung. Then let them bring in a Bill (or four or more Bills, if
     deemed necessary) for conferring autonomous governments on all the
     counties of England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, every county to
     have the option of excluding itself for a period of not less than
     fifty or more than a hundred years by a majority of two-thirds of
     its electorate, women to count as two on a division. At the same
     time let the House of Lords be so reconstituted as to become in
     truth an Imperial Legislature, subject, however, to the veto of a
     new and impartial body to be composed of Field-Marshals,
     Archbishops, Judges and retired Lieutenant-Governors. Our Oversea
     Dominions could come into this scheme at any moment, if so desired.
     To this plan I can see no objections whatever except, perhaps, that
     its execution will take time and will stand in the way of other
     legislation--but anything that is worth doing takes time, and, for
     my own part, I want no other legislation.

                                         Yours, etc.,

                                                   JAMES B. HORNBLOWER,
                                                   Organising Secretary,
                                              Society of Federationists.

II.

(In answer to the above.)

     SIR,--Dr. Hornblower is at his old games. His plan for settling the
     Irish question is no plan at all, as I have frequently shown.
     Whenever it has been submitted to the fire of criticism it has been
     found that it will not wash. It is quite useless to try to mix oil
     and vinegar in a jug that will not hold water.

     I do not wish to be misunderstood. I am a convinced supporter of a
     Federal Solution and have for many years endeavoured to remove the
     public apathy which I have found to exist in regard to this
     profoundly interesting question. My suggestion is that, in order to
     sift the matter thoroughly and, if possible, to strike out a new
     path, we should put our existing constitution into the melting pot
     and thus clear away the weeds which threaten to choke its fair
     growth. Let Parliament be a movable institution, sitting for one
     week in Australia, for one week in Canada, for one week in Ireland,
     and so on. In the course of a year it will have sat in all the
     component parts of the Empire, which will then, indeed, be an
     Empire on which the sun never sets, and in which Parliament always
     sits. It need not, of course, be the same Parliament in every case,
     but can be varied, to suit local customs and prejudices. As a
     symbol of unity His Majesty the King might be conveyed by a special
     service of air-ships from one country to another, so that he might
     always open every Parliament in person. England, Scotland, Ireland
     and Wales would thus take their proper places in the Empire by the
     side of Barbados, Canada and British Guiana, and there would be no
     jealousy because all would be treated equally. Only in this way can
     civil war be avoided and Ulster be satisfied.

                                         Yours, etc.,

                                                      BENJAMIN WOOLLET,
                                     Chairman of the Amalgamated League
                                      for the Federation of the Empire.

III.

(In answer to the two preceding letters.)

     SIR,--Professor Woollet and Dr. Hornblower are both wrong. The only
     way in which a Federal Solution, such as we all desire, can be
     brought about is to convert the existing House of Lords--no change
     being made in its constitution--into the supreme and only
     legislative assembly of the whole Empire. The House of Commons, of
     course, would cease to sit, or it might take the place of the
     present London County Council. This is the true plan. All others
     are absurd. It is useless for people to say they do not want this.
     We insist on their having it.

                                         Yours, etc.,

                                                     JONATHAN FIREDAMP,
                                            President of Council of the
                                                   Federal Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MYTH OF BOND STREET.

(The latest thing in female head-wear is said to be the "Minerva" Hat.)

  Forgive me if my nerves were somewhat shaken;
    Pardon me if my pulse went pit-a-pat
  When I observed your tiny head had taken
          To a "Minerva" hat.

  Love at my heart's closed door, with loudest knockings,
    Won his admittance as I gazed on you
  Garbed in the gear of her, of all blue-stockings,
          The most superbly blue.

  For you seemed nobler far in form and feature;
    In wisdom, too, I deemed you now divine,
  And, though I felt myself a worthless creature,
          I swore to make you mine.

  I said, "I'll win this goddess. Though the siege is
    Long, I shall learn her wisdom if I can,
  Until in time she throws her nuptial ægis
          Over her Super-man."

  And then you spoke, in accents all too human,
    Glanced at me coyly from beneath your casque;
  My vision vanished, and I saw the woman
          Behind that heavenly mask.

  And straight I felt (so flippant was your mien) a
    Pain as I mused on Pallas and her fowl,
  And left the phantom of a faked Athena,
          A disillusioned Owl.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love's Labour Lost.

     "The Newcastle Fire Brigade were called upon last night to deal
     with an outbreak at----, where Mr. J. G---- carries on business as
     a firelighter manufacturer. Before much damage had been done, the
     firemen were able to extinguish the flames with chemicals."

     Newcastle Daily Journal.

Once again we see how the economic instinct clashes with the artistic temperament.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

A reflection that I could not resist after reading Love the Harper (SMITH, ELDER) was that
the Boy appears in this volume as a very indifferent performer upon his instrument. For the
muddle into which he plunged the amatory affairs of the inhabitants of Downside was terrible.
Downside was a quiet delightful village, as lovingly described by Miss ELEANOR G. HAYDEN, but
the number of misplaced attachments it contained seemed, as Lady Bracknell once observed, "in
excess of that which statisticians have laid down for our guidance." There was John Harding,
the hero, who began by courting Phyllis, and subsequently transferred his suit to Ruth. There
was Will, his brother, an even more inconstant lover, whom Phyllis (still nominally betrothed
to John) adored at first sight, and who divided his own heart between Ruth, Phyllis and the
crippled Miss Mayling. There was also Ruth herself, who thought she had a Past (she hadn't,
at least it was all right really; but just in what sense it would be unfair to explain here)
and therefore imagined herself for no man. The story begins with a wedding on the first page;
and what with one thing and another I began to fear that this was the last consummation we
were likely to get. But, of course, in the end---- But I shall not tell you how the couples
finally re-sort themselves, because this is the author's secret, and one that she very craftily
preserves till the last moment. It is arithmetically inevitable that there must be an odd woman
left over in the end; but as to her identity I was entirely wrong, and so probably will you
be. This ending is perhaps the best thing--I don't mean the words in an unkind sense--about
a pleasant if not very thrilling story of a country that Miss HAYDEN evidently knows with the
knowledge of affection.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps some of those who remember J. BURGON BICKERSTETH captaining the Oxford soccer team
four years ago may be surprised to find him serving his apprenticeship at sky-piloting in Alberta.
And very manfully and sincerely and tactfully he does it, to judge by the account which he
modestly renders in The Land of Open Doors (WELLS, GARDNER). With headquarters at Edmonton
he rides and drives or swims (when the floods are out or the bridges down) across this untidy
country from shack to shack, holding odd little services in dormitories and kitchens, and evidently
making friends with the rough pioneer folk, railway men and small farmers, of his assorted
acquaintance. The discouragements of such a task must be immense; indeed, they peep through
the narrative, reticently enough, for grousing habits are not in the equipment of this staunch
and cheery young parson. His notes of this land of promise and swift achievement are admirably
observed. He has the gift of characterisation with humour, is clever at reproducing evidently
authentic and entertaining dialogues, and has caught the Western idiom, not only in these set
reproductions, but unconsciously in his own writing, which is singularly straightforward and
attractive, nor burdened with the sort of cleverness which the young graduate is apt to air.
Neither is there anything of the prig in his composition--his book abounds in reported words
which an earlier generation of clerics would certainly have censored--but when he is saddened
by the indifference, the unplumbed materialism and what he sees as the wickedness of his scattered
flock he might remember for his comfort that valid and sane distinction of the casuists between
formal and material sin. Anyway, good luck to him for a sportsman!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have often wondered why so few novelists select the English Lake District as a fictional
setting. I wonder still more after reading Barbara Lynn (ARNOLD), in which it is used with
fine and telling effect. Miss EMILY JENKINSON'S previous story showed that she had a rare sympathy
with nature, and a still rarer gift of expressing it. Barbara Lynn does much to strengthen
that impression. It is a mountain tale, the scene of which is laid in an upland farm, girt
about by the mighty hills and the solitude of the fells. Here, in the dour old house of Graystones,
is played the drama of Barbara and her sister Lucy; of Peter, who loved one and married the
other; of the feckless Joel, and the old bed-ridden great-grandmother, who is a kind of chorus
to it all. Practically these five are the only characters. Of them it is, of course, Barbara
herself who stands out most prominently, a figure of an austere yet wistful dignity, of whom
any novelist might be proud. I should hazard a guess that Miss JENKINSON writes slowly; one
feels this in her choice of words and her avoidance (even in the final tragic catastrophe)
of anything approaching sensationalism or melodrama. When all, is said, however, it is for
its descriptions that I shall remember the book. The hot summer, with the flocks calling in
the night for water; the storm on the slopes of Thundergray; and the end of all things (which,
pardon me, I do not mean to tell)--these are what live in the reader's mind. Barbara Lynn,
in short, is an unusually imaginative novel, which has confirmed me in two previous impressions--first,
that Miss EMILY JENKINSON is a writer upon whom to keep the appreciative eye; secondly, that
Westmorland must be a perfectly beastly country to live in all the year round. Both of which
conclusions are sincere tributes.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was at school, some years ago, with two brilliant twins called DUFF, who between them captured,
amongst other trifles, the Porson, two Trinity scholarships, a Fellowship, and first place
in the examination for the Indian Civil Service. I mention them here as an example of the minute
care with which ALISTAIR and HENRIETTA TAYLER have compiled The Book of the Duffs (CONSTABLE).
For I find their names and achievements duly recorded in the list of (I should think) every
male Duff born of the stock of ADAM OF CLUNYBEG, temp 1590, from, whom the present Duchess
of FIFE is ninth or tenth in descent. And that is only one branch of the clan, only one of
the numerous family-trees that make these two bulky volumes a perfect forest of Duffs. I know
now exactly how Macbeth felt when he saw Birnam Wood descending on Dunsinane. No wonder he
exclaimed, "The cry is still, They come." When I looked at all these genealogies and lifelike
portraits I had an appalling vision of this great army of Duffs of Clunybeg and Hatton and
Fetteresso and the rest advancing towards me solemnly waving their family-trees. In the van,
with his Dunsinane honours thick upon him, marched MACDUFF--MACDUFF, you know, who was also
"Thane of Fife, created first Earl, 1057, m. Beatrice Banquo." Then followed a long train of
other warriors--General Sir ALEXANDER, who fought in Flanders; Captain GEORGE, who was killed
at Trafalgar; Admiral NORWICH and Admiral ROBERT, also contemporaries of NELSON; General PATRICK,
who slew a tiger in single combat with a bayonet; General Commander-in-Chief Sir BEAUCHAMP
of our own day--and I was afraid. Not, you understand, of their swords, but of their trees.
And then suddenly the spirit of Macbeth came upon me again. With him I shouted, "Lay on, Macduff;
and damn'd be he that first cries, Hold, enough." But, luckier than he, I have lived to tell
the tale, or rather to tell about it, and to recommend it to all those who have arborivorous
tastes. I can promise them that they will heartily enjoy a good browse in the Forest of Duff.

       *       *       *       *       *

