    ==========================================
    QUALITY OF COMPOSITION        GRADES
                                  7    8
    ------------------------------------------
                            No. of Pupils
    Rated at 10                   2    1
    Rated at 20                   6    6
    Rated at 30                   8    8
    Rated at 40                   7    8
    Rated at 50                   2    4
    Rated at 60                   1    1
    Rated at 70                   1    1
    Rated at 80                   1    1
    Rated at 90                   1    1
    ==========================================

The table reads as follows: two pupils in the seventh grade and one in the eighth wrote compositions
rated at 10; six seventh-grade and six eighth-grade pupils wrote compositions rated at 20,
and so on for the whole table.

A similar condition of affairs is indicated if we ask how many of a given type of addition
problems are solved correctly in eight minutes by a fifth- and a sixth-grade class.

    =============================================
    NUMBER OF                     GRADES
    PROBLEMS                      5    6
    ---------------------------------------------
                            No. of Pupils
    0                             2    3
    1                             6    6
    2                             6    6
    3                             6    6
    4                             4    5
    5                             4    5
    6                             3    4
    7                             1    2
    8                             1    1
    9                             1    1
    =============================================

In like manner, if we measure the quality of work done in penmanship for a fifth and sixth
grade, with a system of scoring that ranks the penmanship in equal steps from a quality which,
is ranked four up to a quality which is ranked eighteen, we find the following results:

    ===============================================
    QUALITY OF PENMANSHIP             GRADES
                                      5    6
    -----------------------------------------------
                                 No. of Pupils
    Rated at   4                      5    6
    Rated at   5                      1    1
    Rated at   6                      0    0
    Rated at   7                      2    4
    Rated at   8                     10    4
    Rated at   9                     12    1
    Rated at  10                      3    6
    Rated at  11                      3    8
    Rated at  12                      3    3
    Rated at  13                      1    2
    Rated at  14                      1    1
    Rated at  15                      0    1
    Rated at  16                      1    1
    Rated at  17                      0    0
    Rated at  18                      0    0
    ===============================================

Results similar to those recorded above will be found if any accurate measurement is made of
the knowledge possessed by children in history or in geography, or of the ability to apply
or derive principles in physics or in chemistry, or of the knowledge of vocabulary in Latin
or in German, and the like.

All such facts indicate clearly the necessity for differentiating our work for the group of
children who are classified as belonging to one grade. Under the older and simpler form of
school organization, the one-room rural school, it was not uncommon for children to recite
in one class in arithmetic, in another in geography or history, and in possibly still another
in English. In our more highly organized school systems, with the attempt to have children
pass regularly from grade to grade at each promotion period, we have in some measure provided
for individual differences through allowing children to skip a grade, or not infrequently by
having them repeat the work of a grade. In still other cases an attempt has been made to adapt
the work of the class to the needs and capacities of the children by dividing any class group
into two or more groups, especially in those subjects in which children seem to have greatest
difficulty. Teachers who are alive to the problem presented have striven to adjust their work
to different members of the class by varying the assignments, and in some cases by excusing
from the exercises in which they are already proficient the abler pupils.

Whatever adjustment the school may be able to make in terms of providing special classes for
those who are mentally or physically deficient, or for those who are especially capable, there
will always be found in any given group a wide variation in achievement and in capacity. Group
teaching and individual instruction will always be required of teachers who would adapt their
work to the varying capacities of children. A period devoted to supervised study during which
those children who are less able may receive special help, and those who are of exceptional
ability be expected to make unusual preparation both in extent and in quality of work done,
may contribute much to the efficiency of the school. As paradoxical as the statement may seem,
it is true that the most retarded children in our school systems are the brightest. Expressed
in another way, it can be proved that the more capable children have already achieved in the
subjects in which they are taught more than those who are tow or three grades farther advanced.
Possibly the greatest contribution which teachers can make to the development of efficiency
upon the part of the children with whom they work is to be found in special attention which
is given to capable children with respect to both the quantity and quality of work demanded
of them, together with provision for having them segregated in special classes or passed through
the school system with greater rapidity than is now common. In an elementary school with which
the writer is acquainted, and in which there were four fifth grades, it was discovered during
the past year that in one of these fifth grades in which the brighter children had been put
they had achieved more in terms of ability to solve problems in arithmetic, in their knowledge
of history and geography, in the quality of English composition they wrote, and the like, than
did the children in any one of the sixth grades. In this school this particular fifth grade
was promoted to the seventh grade for the following year. Many such examples could be found
in schools organized with more than one grade at work on the same part of the school course,
if care were taken to segregate children in terms of their capacity. And even where there is
only one teacher per grade, or where one teacher teaches two or three grades, it should be
found possible constantly to accelerate the progress of children of more than ordinary ability.

The movement throughout the United States for the organization of junior high schools (these
schools commonly include the seventh, eighth, and ninth school years) is to be looked upon
primarily as an attempt to adjust the work of our schools to the individual capacities of boys
and girls and to their varying vocational outlook. Such a school, if it is to meet this demand
for adjustment to individual differences, must offer a variety of courses. Among the courses
offered in a typical junior high school is one which leads directly to the high school. In
this course provision is made for the beginning of a foreign language, of algebra, and, in
some cases, of some other high school subject during the seventh and eighth years. In another
course emphasis is placed upon work in industrial or household arts in the expectation that
work in these fields may lead to a higher degree of efficiency in later vocational training,
and possibly to the retention of children during this period who might otherwise see little
or no meaning in the traditional school course. The best junior high schools are offering in
the industrial course a variety of shop work. In some cases machine shop practice, sheet metal
working, woodworking, forging, printing, painting, electrical wiring, and the like are offered
for boys; and cooking, sewing, including dressmaking and designing, millinery, drawing, with
emphasis upon design and interior decoration, music, machine operating, pasting, and the like
are provided for girls. Another type of course has provided for training which looks toward
commercial work, even though it is recognized that the most adequate commercial training may
require a longer period of preparation. In some schools special work in agriculture is offered.

Our schools cannot be considered as satisfactorily organized until we make provision for every
boy or girl to work up to the maximum of his capacity. The one thing that a teacher cannot
do is to make all of his pupils equal in achievement. Whatever adjustment may have been made
in terms of special classes or segregation in terms of ability, the teacher must always face
the problem of varying the assignment to meet the capacities of individual children, and she
ought, wherever it is possible, especially to encourage the abler children to do work commensurate
with their ability, and to provide, as far as is possible, for the rapid advancement of these
children through the various stages of the school system.

QUESTIONS

1. What are the principal causes of differences in abilities or in achievement among school
children?

2. What, if any, of the differences noticed among children may be attributed to sex?

3. Are any of the sex differences noticeable in the achievements of the school children with
whom you are acquainted?

4. To what extent is maturity a cause of individual differences?

5. What evidence is available to show the fallacy of the common idea that children of the same
age are equal in ability?

6. How important is heredity in determining the achievement of men and women?

7. To what extent, if any, would you be interested in the immediate heredity of the children
in your class? Why?

8. To what extent is the environment in which children live responsible for their achievements
in school studies?

9. What may be expected in the way of achievement from two children of widely different heredity
but of equal training?

10. For what factor in education is the environment most responsible? Why?

11. If you grant that original nature is the primary cause of individual differences in intellectual
achievements, how would you define the work of the school?

12. Why are you not justified in grouping children as bright, ordinary, and stupid?

13. Will a boy who has unusual ability in music certainly be superior in all other subjects?

14. Why are children who skip a grade apt to be able to skip again at the end of two or three
years?

15. Are you able to distinguish differences in type of mind (or general mental make-up) among
the children in your classes? Give illustrations.

16. What changes in school organization would you advocate for the sake of adjusting the teaching
done to the varying capacities of children?

17. How should a teacher adjust his work to the individual differences in capacity or in achievement
represented by the usual class group?

       *       *       *       *       *

XI. THE DEVELOPMENT OF MORAL SOCIAL CONDUCT

Morality has been defined in many ways. It has been called "a regulation and control of immediate
promptings of impulses in conformity with some prescribed conduct"; as "the organization of
activity with reference to a system of fundamental values." All these definitions point to
control on the part of the individual as one essential of morality.

Morality is not, then, a matter primarily of mere conduct. It involves conduct, but the essence
of morality lies deeper than the act itself; motive, choice, are involved as well. Mere law-abiding
is not morality in the strict sense of the word. One may keep the laws merely as a matter of
blind habit. A prisoner in jail keeps the laws. A baby of four keeps the laws, but in neither
case could such conduct be called moral. In neither of these cases do we find "control" by
the individual of impulses, nor "conscious choice" of conduct. In the former compulsion was
the controlling force, and in the second blind habit based on personal satisfaction. Conduct
which outwardly conforms to social law and social progress is unmoral rather than moral. A
moment's consideration will suffice to convince any one that the major part of conduct is of
this non-moral type. This is true of adults and necessarily true of children. As Hall says,
most of the supposedly moral conduct of the majority of men is blind habit, not thoughtful
choosing. In so far as we are ruled by custom, by tradition, in so far as we do as the books
or the preacher says, or do as we see others do, without principles to guide us, without thinking,
to that extent the conduct is likely to be non-moral. This is the characteristic reaction of
the majority of people. We believe as our fathers believed, we vote the same ticket, hold in
horror the same practices, look askance on the same doctrines, cling to the same traditions.
Morality, on the other hand, is rationalized conduct. Now this non-moral conduct is valuable
so far as it goes. It is a conservative force, making for stability, but it has its dangers.
It is antagonistic to progress. So long as the conditions surrounding the non-moral individual
remain unchanged, he will be successful in dealing with them, but if conditions change, if
he is confronted by a new situation, if strong temptation comes, he has nothing with which
to meet it, for his conduct was blind. It is the person whose conduct is non-moral that suffers
collapse on the one hand, or becomes a bigot on the other, when criticism attacks what he held
as true or right. Morality requires that men have a reason for the faith that is in them.

In the second place, morality is conduct. Ideals, ideas, wishes, desires, all may lead to morality,
but in so far as they are not expressed in conduct, to that extent they do not come under the
head of morality. One may express the sublimest idea, may claim the highest ideals, and be
immoral. Conduct is the only test of morality, just as it is the ultimate test of character.
Not only is morality judged in terms of conduct, but it is judged according as the conduct
is consistent. "Habits of conduct" make for morality or immorality. It is not the isolated
act of heroism that makes a man moral, or the single unsocial act that makes a man immoral.
The particular act may be moral or immoral, and the person be just the reverse. It is the organization
of activity, it is the habits a man has that places him in one category or the other.

In the third place, morality is a matter of individual responsibility. It is "choice by the
individual," the "perceiving whatever makes for social order and progress." No one can choose
for another, no one can perceive for another. The burden of choosing for the good of the group
rests on the individual, it cannot be shifted to society or the Church, or any other institution.
Each individual is moral or not according as he lives up to the light that he has, according
as he carries into execution principles that are for the good of his race. A particular act,
then, may be moral for one individual and immoral for another, and non-moral for still another.

To go off into the forest to die if one is diseased may be a moral act for a savage in central
Africa; but for a civilized man to do so would probably be immoral because of his greater knowledge.
To give liquor to babies to quiet them may be a non-moral act on the part of ignorant immigrants
from Russia; but for a trained physician to do so would be immoral. Morality, then, is a personal
matter, and the responsibility for it rests on the individual.

Of course this makes possible the setting up of individual opinion as to what is for the good
of the group in opposition to tradition and custom. This is, of course, dangerous if it is
mere opinion or if it is carried to an extreme. Few men have the gift of seeing what makes
for social well-being beyond that of the society of thoughtful people of their time. And yet
if a man has the insight, if his investigations point to a greater good for the group from
doing something which is different from the standards held by his peers, then morality requires
that he do his utmost to bring about such changes. If it is borne in mind that every man is
the product of his age and that it is evolution, not revolution, that is constructive, this
essential of true morality will not seem so dangerous. All the reformers the world has ever
seen, all the pioneers in social service, have been men who, living up to their individual
responsibility, have acted as they believed for society's best good in ways that were not in
accord with the beliefs of the majority of their time. Shirking responsibility, not living
up to what one believes is right, is immoral just as truly as stealing from one's neighbor.

The fourth essential in moral conduct is that it be for the social good. It is the governing
of impulses, the inhibition of desires that violate the good of the group, and the choice of
conduct that forwards its interests. This does not mean that the group and the individual are
set over against each other, and the individual must give way. It means, rather, that certain
impulses, tendencies, motives, of the individual are chosen instead of others; it means that
the individual only becomes his fullest self as he becomes a social being; it means that what
is for the good of the group in the long run is for the good of the units that make up that
group. Morality, then, is a relative term. What is of highest moral value in one age may be
immoral in another because of change in social conditions. As society progresses, as different
elements come to the front because of the march of civilization, so the acts that are detrimental
to the good of the whole must change. To-day slander and stealing a man's good name are quite
as immoral as stealing his property. Acts that injure the mental and spiritual development
of the group are even more immoral than those which interfere with the physical well-being.

A strong will is not necessarily indicative of a good character. A strong will may be directed
towards getting what gives pleasure to oneself, irrespective of the effect on other people.
It is the goal, the purpose with which it is exercised, that makes a man with a strong will
a moral man or an immoral man. Only when one's will is used to put into execution those principles
that will bring about social progress is it productive of a good character.

Thus it is seen that morality can be discussed only in connection with group activity. It is
the individual as a part of a group, acting in connection with it, that makes the situation
a moral one. Individual morality is discussed by some authors, but common opinion limits the
term to the use that has been discussed in the preceding paragraphs.

If social well-being is taken in its broadest sense, then all moral behavior is social, and
all social behavior comes under one of the three types of morality. Training for citizenship,
for social efficiency, for earning a livelihood, all have a moral aspect. It is only as the
individual is trained to live a complete life as one of a group that he can be trained to be
fully moral, and training for complete social living must include training in morality. Hence
for the remainder of this discussion the two terms will be considered as synonymous. We hear
it sometimes said, "training in morals and manners," as if the two were distinct, and yet a
full, realization of what is for social betterment along emotional and intellectual lines must
include a realization of the need of manners. Of course there are degrees of morality or immorality
according as the act influences society much or little--all crimes are not equally odious,
nor all virtues equally commendable, but any act that touches the well-being of the group must
come under this category.

From the foregoing paragraph, the logical conclusion would be that there is no instinct or
inborn tendency that is primarily and distinctly moral as over against those that are social.
That is the commonly accepted belief to-day. There is no moral instinct. Morality finds its
root in the original nature of man, but not in a single moral instinct. It is, on the other
hand, the outgrowth of a number of instincts all of which have been listed under the head of
the social instinct. Man has in his original equipment tendencies that will make him a moral
individual if they are developed, but they are complex, not simple. Some of these social tendencies
which are at the root of moral conduct are gregariousness, desire for approval, dislike of
scorn, kindliness, attention to human beings, imitation, and others. Now, although man possesses
these tendencies as a matter of original equipment, he also possesses tendencies which are
opposed to these, tendencies which lead to the advancement of self, rather than the well-being
of the group. Some of these are fighting, mastery, rivalry, jealousy, ownership. Which of these
sets of tendencies is developed and controls the life of the individual is a matter of training
and environment. In the last chapter it was pointed out that morality was much more susceptible
to environmental influences than intellectual achievement, because it was much more a direction
and guidance of capacities and tendencies possessed by every one. One's character is largely
a product of one's environment. In proof of this, read the reports of reform schools, and the
like. Children of criminal parents, removed from the environment of crime, grow up into moral
persons. The pair of Jukes who left the Juke clan lost their criminal habits and brought up
a family of children who were not immoral. Education cannot produce geniuses, but it can produce
men and women whose chief concern is the well-being of the group.

From a psychological point of view the "choice by the individual of habits of conduct that
are for the good of the group" involves three considerations: First, the elements implied in
such conduct; second, the stages of development; third, the laws governing this development.
First, moral conduct involves the use of habits, but these must be rational habits, so it involves
the power to think and judge in order to choose. But thinking that shall result in the choice
of habits that are for the well-being of the group must use knowledge. The individual must
have facts and standards at his disposal by means of which he may evaluate the possible lines
of action presented. Further, an individual may know intellectually what is right and moral
and yet not care. The interest, the emotional appeal, may be lacking, hence he must have ideals
to which he has given his allegiance, which will force him to put into practice what his knowledge
tells him is right. And then, having decided what is for the social good and having the desire
to carry it out, the moral man must be able to put it into execution. He must have the "will
power." Morality, then, is an extremely complex matter, involving all the powers of the human
being, intellectual, emotional, and volitional--involving the coöperation of heredity and environment.
It is evident that conduct that is at so high a level, involving experience, powers of judgment,
and control, cannot be characteristic of the immature individual, but must come after years
of growth, if at all. Therefore we find stages of development towards moral conduct.

The first stage of development, which lasts up into the pre-adolescent years, is the non-moral
stage. The time when a child may conform outwardly to moral law, but only as a result of blind
habit--not as a result of rational choice. It is then that the little child conforms to his
environment, reflecting the characters of the people by whom he is surrounded. Right to him
means what those about him approve and what brings him satisfaction. If stealing and lying
meet with approval from the people about him, they are right to him. To steal and be caught
is wrong to the average child of the streets, because that brings punishment and annoyance.
He has no standards of judging other than the example of others and his own satisfaction and
annoyance. The non-moral period, then, is characterized by the formation of habits--which outwardly
conform to moral law, or are contrary to it, according as his environment directs.

The need to form habits that do conform, that are for the social good, is evident. By having
many habits of this kind formed in early childhood, truthfulness, consideration for others,
respect for poverty, promptness, regularity, taking responsibility, and so on, the dice are
weighted in favor of the continuation of such conduct when reason controls. The child has then
only to enlarge his view, build up his principles in accord with conduct already in operation--he
needs only to rationalize what he already possesses. On the other hand, if during early years
his conduct violates moral law, he is in the grip of habits of great strength which will result
in two dangers. He may be blind to the other side, he may not realize how his conduct violates
the laws of social progress; or, knowing, he may not care enough to put forth the tremendous
effort necessary to break these habits and build up the opposite. From the standpoint of conduct
this non-moral period is the most important one in the life of the child. In it the twig is
bent. To urge that a child cannot understand and therefore should be excused for all sorts
of conduct simply evades the issue. He is forming habits--that cannot be prevented; the question
is, Are those habits in line with the demands of social efficiency or are they in violation of it?

But character depends primarily on deliberate choice. We dare not rely on blind habit alone
to carry us through the crises of social and spiritual adjustment. There will arise the insistent
question as to whether the habitual presupposition is right. Occasions will occur when several
possible lines of conduct suggest themselves; what kind of success will one choose, what kind
of pleasure? Choice, personal choice, will be forced upon the individual. This problem does
not usually grow acute until early adolescence, although it may along some lines present itself
earlier. When it appears will depend to a large extent on the environment. For some people
in some directions it never comes. It should come gradually and spontaneously. This period
is the period of transition, when old habits are being scrutinized, when standards are being
formulated and personal responsibility is being realized, when ideals are made vital and controlling.
It may be a period of storm and stress when the youth is in emotional unrest; when conduct
is erratic and not to be depended on; when there is reaction against authority of all kinds.
These characteristics are unfortunate and are usually the result of unwise treatment during
the first period. If, on the other hand, the period of transition is prepared for during the
preadolescent years by giving knowledge, opportunities for self-direction and choice, the change
should come normally and quietly. The transition period should be characterized by emphasis
upon personal responsibility for conduct, by the development of social ideals, and by the cementing
of theory and practice. This period is an ever recurring one.

The transition period is followed by the period of true morality during which the conduct chosen
becomes habit. The habits characteristic of this final period are different from the habits
of the non-moral period, in that they have their source in reason, whereas those of the early
period grew out of instincts. This is the period of most value, the period of steady living
in accordance with standards and ideals which have been tested by reason and found to be right.
The transition period is wasteful and uncertain. True morality is the opposite. But so long
as growth in moral matters goes on there is a continuous change from transition period to truly
moral conduct and back again to a fresh transition period and again a change to morality of
a still higher order. Each rationalized habit but paves the way for one still higher. Morality,
then, should be a continual evolution from level to level. Only so is progress in the individual
life maintained.

Morality, then, requires the inhibition of some instincts and the perpetuation of others, the
formation of habits and ideals, the development of the power to think and judge, the power
to react to certain abstractions such as ought, right, duty, and so on, the power to carry
into execution values accepted. The general laws of instinct, of habit, the response by piecemeal
association, the laws of attention and appreciation, are active in securing these responses
that we call moral, just as they are operative in securing other responses that do not come
under this category. It is only as these general psychological laws are carried out sufficiently
that stable moral conduct is secured. Any violation of these laws invalidates the result in
the moral field just as it would in any other. There is not one set of principles governing
moral conduct and another set governing all other types of conduct. The same general laws govern
both. This being true, there is no need of discussing in detail the operation of laws controlling
moral conduct--that has all been covered in the previous chapters. However, there are some
suggestions which should be borne in mind in the application of these laws to this field.

First, it is a general principle that habits, to be fixed and stable, must be followed by satisfactory
results and that working along the opposite line, that of having annoyance follow a lapse in
the conduct, is uneconomical and unreliable. This principle applies particularly to moral habits.
Truth telling, bravery, obedience, generosity, thought for others, church going, and so on
must be followed by positive satisfaction, if they are to be part of the warp and woof of life.
Punishing falsehood, selfishness, cowardice, and so on is not enough, for freedom from supervision
will usually mean rejection of such forced habits. A child must find that it pays to be generous;
that he is happier when he coöperates with others than when he does not. Positive satisfaction
should follow moral conduct. Of course this satisfaction must vary in type with the age and
development of the child, from physical pleasure occasioned by an apple as a reward for self-control
at table to the satisfaction which the consciousness of duty well done brings to the adolescent.

Second, the part played by suggestion in bringing about moral habits and ideals must be recognized.
The human personalities surrounding the child are his most influential teachers in this line.
This influence of personalities begins when the child is yet a baby. Reflex imitation first,
and later conscious imitation plus the feeling of dependence which a little child has for the
adults in his environment, results in the child reflecting to a large extent the characters
of those about him. Good temper, stability, care for others, self-control, and many other habits;
respect for truth, for the opinion of others, and many other ideals, are unconsciously absorbed
by the child in his early years. Example not precept, actions not words, are the controlling
forces in moral education. Hence the great importance of the characters of a child's companions,
friends, and teachers, to say nothing of his parents. Next to personalities, theaters, moving
pictures, and books, all have great suggestive power.

Third, there is always a danger that theory become divorced from practice, and this is particularly
true here because morality is conduct. Knowing what is right is one thing, doing it is another,
and knowing does not result in doing unless definite connections are made between the two.
Instruction in morals may have but little effect on conduct. It is only as the knowledge of
what is right and good comes in connection with social situations when there is the call for
action that true morality can be gained. Mere classroom instruction cannot insure conduct.
It is only as the family and the school become more truly social institutions, where group
activity such as one finds in life is the dominant note, that we can hope to have morality
and not ethics, ideals and not passive appreciation, as a result of our teaching.

Fourth, it is without question true that in so far as the habits fixed are "school habits"
or "Sunday habits," or any other special type of habits, formed only in connection with special
situations, to that extent we have no reason to expect moral conduct in the broader life situations.
The habits formed are those that will be put into practice, and they are the only ones we are
sure of. Because a child is truthful in school, prompt in attendance, polite to his teacher,
and so on is no warrant that he will be the same on the playground or on the street. Because
a child can think out a problem in history or mathematics is no warrant that he will therefore
think out moral problems. The only sure way is to see to it that he forms many useful habits
out of school as well as in, that he has opportunity to think out moral problems as well as
problems in school subjects.[18]

Fifth, individual differences must not be forgotten in moral training. Individual differences
in suggestibility will influence the use of this factor in habit formation. Individual differences
in power of appreciation will influence the formation of ideals. Differences in interest in
books will result in differing degrees of knowledge. Differences in maturity will mean that
certain children in a class are ready for facts concerning sex, labor and capital, crime, and
so on, long before other children in the same class should have such knowledge. Differences
in thinking power will determine efficiency in moral situations just as in others.

The more carefully we consider the problem of moral social conduct, the more apparent it becomes
that the work of the school can be modified so as to produce more significant results than
are commonly now secured. Indeed, it may be contended that in some respects the activities
of the school operate to develop an attitude which is largely individualistic, competitive,
and, if not anti-social, at least non-social. Although we may not expect that the habits and
attitudes which are developed in the school will entirely determine the life led outside, yet
one may not forget that a large part of the life of children is spent under school supervision.
As children work in an atmosphere of coöperation, and as they form habits of helpfulness and
openmindedness, we may expect that in some degree these types of activity will persist, especially
in their association with each other. In a school which is organized to bring about the right
sort of moral social conduct we ought to expect that children would grow in their power to
accept responsibility for each other. The writer knows of a fourth grade in which during the
past year a boy was absent from the room after recess. The teacher, instead of sending the
janitor, or she herself going to find the boy, asked the class what they were going to do about
it, and suggested to them their responsibility for maintaining the good name which they had
always borne as a group. Two of the more mature boys volunteered to go and find the boy who
was absent. When they brought him into the room a little while later, they remarked to the
teacher in a most matter-of-fact way, "We do not think that he will stay out after recess again."
In the corridor of an elementary school the writer saw during the past year two boys sitting
on a table before school hours in the morning. The one was teaching the multiplication tables
to the other. They were both sixth-grade pupils,--the one a boy who had for some reason or
other never quite thoroughly learned his tables. The teacher had suggested that somebody might
help him, and a boy had volunteered to come early to school in order that he might teach the
boy who was backward. A great many teachers have discovered that the strongest motive which
they can find for good work in the field of English is to be found in providing an audience,
both for the reading or story-telling, and for the English composition. The idea which prevails
is that if one is to read, he ought to read well enough to entertain others. If one has enjoyed
a story, he may, if he prepares himself sufficiently well, tell it to the class or to some
other group.

