According to Leibnitz, everything that exists is replete with life, full of vital activity,
if not an actual mass of living individualities. But this daring hypothesis has ceased to attract
the attention it once received. There are states and conditions of matter in respect to which
it is idle to predicate the vis vitae. For the great bulk of our globe is made up of the highly
crystallized and non-fossiliferous rocks, which neither contain any elementary principle of
life, nor exhibit the slightest trace of vital organism, even to the minutest living speck
or plastid. During all those vast periods of uncomputed time, covering the world's primeval
history, there was an utter absence of life until the chief upheavals of the outer strata of
our globe, now constituting the principal mountain chains of its well-defined continents, occurred.
In whatever atomic or molecular theories, therefore, we may indulge, in respect to the original
formation of the earth, the utmost stretch of empirical science can go no further, in the solution
of vital problems, than to touch the threshold of inorganic matter, where, in our backward
survey of nature, vegetable life begins and animal life ends. All beyond this point must be
given up to other "correlates of motion" than those to which the materialists specifically
assign the beginnings of life.

The theory of "panspermism," originating with the AbbA(C) Spallanzani in modern times, and
still stoutly advocated by M. Pasteur and some few others, is manifestly defective in this,--that
it goes beyond the inorganic limit in assigning vital units to all matter, even to its elemental
principles. It is true that they speak of "pre-existing germs"--"primordial forms of life"--that
are "many million times smaller than the smallest visible insect." But their assumptions go
far beyond the construction we give to the Bible genesis, which merely asserts that the germinal
principle of life--that of every living thing--is in the earth, or in "the waters and the earth,"
which were alone commanded "to bring forth."

Some of the panspermists have gone so far as to assert that everything which exists is referable
to the vis vitA|--to non-corporeal, yet extended vital units, mere metaphysical points--like
Professor Beale's bioplasts in the finer nerve-reticulations--or living things endowed with
a greater or less degree of perceptive power. This was the assumption of the great German philosopher,
Leibnitz, who carried the panspermic theory so far as to accept the more fanciful one of "monads"--those
invisible, ideal, and purely speculative units of Plato, which go to make up the entire universe,
extending even to the ultimate elements, or elements of elements. Leibnitz says: "As it is
with the human soul, which sympathizes with all the varying states of nature--which mirrors
the universe--so it is with the monads universally. Each--and they are infinitely numerous--is
also a mirror, a centre of the universe, a microcosm: everything that is, or happens, is reflected
in each, but by its own spontaneous power, through which it holds ideally in itself, as in
a germ, the totality of things."

But the specific germ theory advanced in the Bible genesis, is capable of being taken out of
the purely speculative region in which "panspermism" landed the great German philosopher. It
is a simple averment that the animating principle of life is in the earth; that the germs of
all living things, vegetal and animal alike, are implanted therein, and that they make their
appearance, in obedience to the divine command, whenever and wherever the necessary environing
conditions occur. The fact that nature still obeys this command is proof that she has the power
to do so--that this indestructible vital principle still animates her breast. Innumerable experiments,
as well as phenomenal facts, attest the truth of this genesis of life, while the researches
of Professor Bastian and other eminent materialists, made in infusorial and cryptogamic directions,
confirm rather than discredit it. The fact that it appears for the first time in this ancient
Hebrew text can detract nothing from its value as a scientific statement. Granting that panspermism
may rest upon a purely fanciful and unsubstantial basis, it is but fair to concede that its
great advocates have honestly attempted to explain by it all the vital phenomena occurring
in nature, as M. Pasteur is conclusively attempting to do now. It is certain that the materialists,
who are resolutely antagonizing the panspermic, as well as all other "vital" theories, have
not yet gone so deeply into elementary substance as to shut off all further investigation in
these directions.[22] Neither the lowest primordial cell, nor the least conceivable molecule,
has yet been reached by the aid of the microscope, any more than the outermost circle of the
heavens has been penetrated by the aid of the telescope. We must stop somewhere, and when we
find a scientifically formulated statement which embraces all vital phenomena, and satisfactorily
accounts for them all, whether it originally came from Aristotle, from Plato, or from Moses,
is a matter of comparatively slight moment, so far as the scientific world is concerned. At
least, it would seem so to us. But to talk of the de novo origin of "living matter" as the
result of the dynamic force of molecules--themselves concessively "dead matter"--is to indulge
in quite as fanciful a speculation as the advocates of the panspermic hypothesis have ever
ventured to suggest. Professor Bastian is forced to go back of his infusorial forms and fungus-germs
to a microscopical "pellicle," from which he admits they are "evolved." But why evolved? Does
not the principle of vitality lie back of the pellicle, as well as the fungus-germ? How absolutely
certain is he that the extremest verge of microscopic investigation has been attained, in what
he is pleased to designate "primary organic forms?" "Evolution" is a very potential word, and
no one may yet know what boundless stores of absurd theory and metaphysical nonsense are locked
up in it![23] He admits that "evolution," as embracing the idea of "natural selection," can
have nothing to do with the vast assemblage of infusorial and cryptogamic organisms, until
they assume definitely recurring forms, that is, rise into species and breed true to nature.
Then, he agrees with Mr. Darwin, that the law of vital polarity or "heredity," as he calls
it, may come in and play its part towards effecting evolution, or variability, in both animal
and vegetal organisms, but not before. Why then should he lug in, or attempt to lug in, the
diverse potentialities of this word "evolution," for the purpose of demonstrating the dynamic
law governing the developmental stages of his microscopic pellicle? This, he will agree, lies
far below the point, in primary organism, where specific identity, or the law of heredity,
asserts its full recognition. All below this developmental point is inconstancy of specific
forms, with no line of ancestry to be traced anywhere.

This, Professor Bastian readily concedes, notwithstanding it cuts the Darwinian plexus squarely
in the middle. He says: "Both Gruithuisen and TrA(C)viranus agree that the infusoria met with
have never presented similar characters when they have been encountered in different infusions;
nor have they been uniform in the same infusion, when different portions of it have been exposed
to the incidence of different conditions. The slightest variations in the quality or quantity
of the materials employed, are invariably accompanied by the appearance of different organisms--these
being oftentimes strange and peculiar, and unaccompanied by any of the familiar forms." Other
writers of equal eminence in this field of investigation have not only observed the same characteristics,
but encountered the same difficulties in classification, from the very great diversity obtaining
even in the nearest allied forms. So great is this diversity, and so multitudinous the different
forms, that little certainty or value can be attached to the classifications already made.
Even Professor O.F. MA1/4ller, after he had convinced himself that he had discovered not less
than twelve different species belonging to a single genus, was subjected to the mortification
of seeing Ehrenberg cut them all down to mere modifications of one and the same species.

We refer to these several statements of fact for the purpose of emphasizing the true genesis
of life as supplemented by "the incidence of different conditions," on which all vital manifestations
depend. The presence of the germinal principles of life in the earth is emphatically averred
in the Bible genesis. And we have only to connect the doctrine of "conditional incidence" with
this averment, to account for all the vital phenomena which so profoundly puzzle these gentlemen
while prying into the mysteries of the ephemeromorphic world. Whatever may be the character
of any infusion, or to whatever incidence of conditions it may be subjected, it will produce
some form of life; not because it contains this or that morphological cell, destructible at
a temperature of 100A deg. C--that to which it is experimentally subjected before microscopic
examination,--but because every organic infusion, whether undergoing the required heat-test
or not, contains vital units--those as indestructible by heat as by glacial drift--which burgeon
forth into life whenever the proper conditions of environment obtain. The slightest variation,
in either the quantity or quality of the material employed in the infusion, is, as these eminent
microscopists agree, invariably accompanied by the appearance of different forms of life, just
as the slightest change in soil-conditions, such as that produced by the presence of one species
of tree with another in natural truffle-grounds, will result in the appearance of another and
altogether different plant, as well as truffle tuber.

But the theory which the vitalists are more particularly called upon to combat is that to which
the non-vitalists most rigidly adhere; and we refer to it, in this connection, that the reader
may compare its complexity and involution of statement and idea with the extreme simplicity
of the biblical genesis, as heretofore presented. We give it in the exact phraseology employed
by Professor Bastian: "Living matter is formed by, or is the result of, certain combinations
and rearrangements that take place in invisible colloidal molecules--a process which is essentially
similar to the mode by which higher organisms are derived from lower in the pellicle of an
organic infusion." This carefully-worded definition of life, or the origin of "living matter,"
presents a hypothetical mode of reasoning which is eminently characteristic of all materialists.
In the stricter definitional sense of the word, there is no such thing as "living matter" or
"dead matter," as we have before claimed. There are "living organisms" in multitudinous abundance--those
resulting from, not in, the vis vitA|, or the elementary principle of life in nature--as there
are also "dead organisms" in abundance. This materialistic definition of life, which is not
so much as a generic one even, begins in an absurdity and ends in one. It is agreed that the
"proligerous pellicle" of M. Pouchet, the "plastide particle" of Professor Bastian, the "monas"
of O.F. MA1/4ller, the "bioplast" of Professor Beale, etc., are essentially one and the same
thing, except in name. They are mere moving specks, or nearly spherical particles, which exhibit
the first active movements in organic solutions. They vary in size from the one hundred-thousandth
to the one twenty-thousandth of a second of an inch in diameter, and appear at first hardly
more than moving specks of semi-translucent mucus. Indeed, Burdach calls them "primordial mucous
layers." But they move, pulsate, swarm into colonies, and act as if they were guided, not by
separate intelligence, but by some master-builder supervising the whole work of organic structure.
This master-builder is the one "elementary unit of life," which directs the movements of all
the plastide particles, constantly adding to their working force, from the first primordial
mucous layer of the superstructure to the majestic dome of thought (in the case of man) which
crowns the temple of God on earth.[24]

But this "pellicle" of Professor Bastian is not mere structureless matter, any more than the
"bioplast" of Professor Beale. The fact that they move, pulsate, work in all directions, shows
that they have the necessary organs with which to work. These organs may be invisible in the
field of the microscope, but that is no proof that they do not exist. Organs are as essential
for locomotion in a plastide particle as in a mastodon or megatherium, and if the microscope
could only give back the proper response, we should see them, if not be filled with wonder
at the marvellous perfection of their structure. But into whatever divisions or classifications
we may distinguish or generalize the properties of matter, we can never predicate vitality
of it, any more than we can predicate intellectuality. Indeed, "intellectual matter" presents
no greater incongruity or invalidity of conception than "vital matter." These qualifying terms
are applied to the known laws and forces of nature, not to insensate matter. To assert that
life results from "certain combinations and rearrangements of matter," and not in them, is
utterly to confound cause and effect, or so incongruously mingle them together that no logical
distinction between the two can exist as an object of perception. Without the vis vitA|, or
some germinal principle of life, lying back of these "combinations and rearrangements of matter,"
and determining the movements of their constituent molecules, there could be no vital manifestation,
any more than there could be a correlate of a force without the actual existence of the force
itself. [25]

The materialists give the name of "protoplasm" to that primitive structureless mass of homogeneous
matter in which the lowest living organisms make their appearance. They claim that this generic
substance is endowed with the property or power of producing life de novo, or, as Professor
Bastian puts it, of "unfolding new-born specks of living matter" which subsequently undergo
certain evolutional changes; but whether they die in their experimental flasks, or rise into
higher and more potentially endowed forms of life, it is difficult for those following their
diagnoses to determine. They further claim that the same law of vital manifestation obtains
in organic solutions as in the structureless mass they call "protoplasm." Both are essentially
endowed with the same potentiality of originating life independently of vital units, or de
novo, as they more persistently phrase it. But why speak of unfolding "new-born specks of living
matter?" "To unfold" means to open the folds of something--to turn them back, get at the processes
of their infoldment. It implies a pre-existing something, inwrapped as a germ in its environment.
If not a germ, what is this pre-existing vital something which their language implies? Is our
scientific technology so destitute of definitional accuracy that they cannot use half a dozen
scientific terms without committing half that number of down-right scientific blunders? "New-born
specks of living matter" is language that a vitalist might possibly use by sheer inadvertence;
but no avowed materialist, like Professor Bastian, should trip in this definitional way.

"Living matter," born of what? Certainly not of dead matter. Death quickens nothing into life,
not even the autonomous moulds of the grave. It implies the absence of all vitality--a state
or condition of matter in which all vital functions have been suspended, have utterly ceased,
if, indeed, they ever existed. It behooves the materialists to use language with more precision
and accuracy than this. "Dead matter," whatever the phrase may imply, can bear nothing, produce
nothing, quicken nothing. The pangs of death once past, the pangs of life cease. Nor is there
any birth from unquickened matter. Animals bear young, trees bear fruit, but force produces
results. What then quickens protoplasmic matter? Neither vital force, nor vegetative force,
if we are to credit the materialists. They would scorn to postulate such a theory, or accept
any such absurd remnant of the old vitalistic school. It is rather "molecular force"--a physical,
not a vital unit--that gives us these "new-born specks of living matter." [26] This is what
they would all assert at once, in their enthusiasm to enlighten us on a new terminology.

But "molecular force" fails to give us any additional enlightenment on the subject we are investigating.
It is even less satisfactory than "atomic force," or "elementary force"--that which may be
considered as inhering in the elementary particles from which both atoms and molecules are
derived. And since both the ultimate atom and the ultimate molecule lie beyond microscopic
reach, the assumption that vital phenomena are the result of either molecular force or atomic
force, rests upon no other basis than that of imaginary hypothesis. To postulate any such theory
of life, is going beyond the limits of experimental research and inquiry, and hence adopting
an unscientific method. At what point the smallest living organism is launched into existence--started
on its life-journey--no one is confident enough to assert. The materialist is just as dumb
on this subject as the vitalist; and the only advantage he can have over his antagonist is
to stand on this extreme verge of attenuated matter, and deny the existence of any force beyond
it. The postulation by him of molecular force at this point, is virtually an abandonment of
the whole controversy. He ceases to be a materialist the moment he passes the visible boundaries
of matter, in search of anything like "undifferentiated sky-mist" beyond it.

All that we definitely know is that certain conditions of protoplasmic matter, of organic solutions,
of soil-constituents, etc., produce certain forms of life; and, in the case of solutions, certain
low forms of life: But whether the lower rise, by any insensible gradations, into the higher,
more complex, and definitely expressed forms of life, is altogether unknown. That any such
gradations can be traced from the lowest vital unit, in the alleged collocations of molecules,
is not yet claimed. These primordial collocations, like the lowest living organisms, lie beyond
the microscopic aids to vision, so that the ultimate genesis of life remains as much a mystery
as ever--becomes, in fact, a mere speculative hypothesis. And when it comes to this sort of
speculation, the materialist is just as much in the dark as the vitalist, and neither can have
any advantage over the other, except as the one may adopt the analytic, and the other the synthetic
method.

This is the materialistic argument covering the de novo origin of living organisms:--There
is no greater microscopical evidence, they assert, that these organisms come from pre-existing
invisible germs or vital units, than that crystals are produced in a similar manner--that is,
come from pre-existing invisible germs of crystals. But this is overlooking all generic distinction
in respect to processes or modes of action. Crystals are inorganic matter which form, do not
grow. They are mere symmetrical arrangements, not organic growths; and are produced by some
law akin to chemical affinity, acting on the molecules of their constituent mass. They possess
no vital function. They show no beginning or cessation of life. But, once locked up in their
geometric solids, they remain permanently enduring forms--concessively inorganic, not functionally-endowed,
matter. To speak, therefore, of the "germs of crystals," is using language that has no appreciable
significance to us. Germs are embryonic, and imply a law of growth--a process of assimilation,
not of mere aggregation.

But, at the risk of being tedious, let us extend this argument of the materialists a little
further: The only difference, they will still insist, between the preA"xisting germs of crystals
and plants--or the only difference essentially worth noticing--is that crystalline particles
of matter are endowed with much less potentiality of undergoing diversified forms and structural
changes than the more highly favored vital particles, such as the proligerous pellicle, the
bioplast, the plastide, etc. The one represents mere crystallizable matter, the other the more
complex colloidal or albuminoid substance, or that capable of producing a much greater number
of aggregates. The analogies, they concede, end here. But the difference is world-wide when
we come to processes--the true experimental test in all classification. Crystallizable substances
crystallize--that is all. They pass into a fixed and immovable state, and mostly into one as
enduring as adamant; while colloidal or albuminoid matter (laboratory protoplasm) takes on
no fixed forms--only those that are ephemeral, merely transitory. This is so marked a feature,
in respect to all the primordial forms of life, that Professor Bastian gives them the more
distinctive name of "ephemeromorphs," in place of infusoria. But all these primordial forms
grow--develop into vital activity. Not so with a solitary crystal. Everywhere the statical
unit forms, the dynamical unit grows; the one aggregates, the other assimilates; the one solidifies,
the other opens up into living tissue; the one rests in the embrace of eternal silence, the
other breaks the adamantine doors, and makes nature resonant with praise.

Great stress is laid by the materialists on the changeability of certain microscopic forms,
and the startling metamorphoses they apparently undergo in different infusions, especially
those forms having developmental tendencies towards fungi and certain low forms of algA|. They
attribute their different modes of branching, articulation, segmentation of filaments, etc.,
both to intrinsic tendencies and extrinsic causes, the latter depending, no doubt, in a great
measure upon the chemical changes constantly taking place in their respective infusions. These
intrinsic tendencies, they would have us believe, depend upon the dynamic force of molecules,
rather than any vital unit, or even change in elementary conditions. But "Dynamism" simply
implies that force inheres in, or appertains to, all material substance, without specifically
designating either the quantity or quality of the inhering force. If these materialists, therefore,
use the terms "dynamic force," in this connection, in the sense in which we use vital force,
or in the sense in which they use "statical force" as applied to the formation of crystals,
in contradistinction from "dynamical force" as applied to living organisms, we have no special
objection to urge against this particular formula. It presents no such formidable antagonism
as the vitalists would expect to encounter from them.

M. Dutrochet is approvingly quoted by Professor Bastian, as asserting that he could produce
different genera of mouldiness (low mycological forms) at will, by simply employing different
infusions. This is unquestionably true, with certain limitations. And the chief limitation
is as to his (M. Dutrochet's) will. He might "will," for instance, to plant one field with
corn and another with potatoes, but if the husbandman he employed to do the planting should
happen to plant the one crop where he had willed to plant the other, and corn should grow where
potatoes were planted, and vice versa, then he might be said to have produced corn at will.
And so of his infusions. No change in their conditions enabled him to produce one species,
much less a genus, of mouldiness in preference to another, by any change in the infusions employed
by him. The power which implants life in the mycological world, implants it in every other
world, from that without beginning to that without end.

All that the materialists can claim respecting man's agency in the production of life is, that
he may take advantage of the uniform laws of nature, so far as they are known to him, planting
seeds here, changing chemical conditions there, using different infusions in his experimental
flasks,--organic or inorganic, as he may choose--and then await the action of these uniform
laws. He will find them operative everywhere, and if he studies them deeply enough, he will
find that they are not so much the laws of nature as they are the laws of nature's God.

Professor Bastian thinks he has conclusive evidence that what he calls "new-born specks of
living matter" are produced de novo, that is, independently of any conceivable germ or germinal
principle of life implanted in nature. But he confounds this implanted principle of life with
the living organism it produces. His morphological cells, as well as plastide particles, are
among these living organisms, as is conclusively shown by his own experiments. These all perish
in his super-heated flasks. But the vital principle that produced them--that which becomes
germinal under the proper conditional incidences--he can no more destroy by experimentation
than he can create a new world or annihilate the old one. His flask experiments, therefore,
prove nothing; and all this talk about de novo production is the sheerest scientific delusion.
For, were it possible to destroy every plant, tree, shrub, blade of grass, weed, seed, underground
root, nut, and tuber to-day, the earth would teem with just as diversified a vegetation as
ever to-morrow. A few trees, like the gigantic conifers of the Pacific slope, might not make
their appearance again, and some plants might drop out of the local flora; but the Pater omnipotens
Ather of Virgil, would descend into the bosom of his joyous spouse (the earth), and, great
himself, mingle with her great body, in all the prodigality, profusion, and wealth of vegetation
as before.[27]

But these defiant challengers of the vitalists, who refuse us even the right to assume the
existence of a special "vital force" in nature, are anything but consistent in their logical
deductions. For while they resolutely deny the invasion of vital germs in their experimental
flasks, they talk as flippantly of the "germs of crystals," and their presence in saline and
other solutions, as if there were no scientific formula more satisfactorily generalized than
that establishing their existence. Even Professor Bastian speaks of "germs," in a general sense,
as if they thronged the earth, air, water, and even the stratified rocks, in countless and
unlimited numbers. But we fail to see that any of his accurately obtained results determine
their exclusion from the experimental media employed by him for that purpose. His unit of value
is a morphological cell, a derivative organism rather than a primary vital unit; and all organisms
are, as we have before said, destructible by heat. Professor Agassiz is pretty good authority
for doubting the existence of such a cell. The difficulty of assigning to it any definitional
value is, that it lies too near the ultimate implications of matter--those shadowy and inexplicable
confines not yet reached--to admit of any scientific explication necessarily resting on objective
data. If they mean by "germs" primary organic cells, then none exist in their super-heated
infusions, and they are logical enough in rejecting the idea of their invasion. But in assuming
the cell to be the ultimate unit of value, is where they trip in attribution, and stumble upon
a partial judgment only.

The only value attaching to their theory of crystalline germs is, that it conclusively establishes
the law of uniformity by which all structural forms are determined, whether they originate
in organic infusions or inorganic solutions--in protoplasm or protoprism. The crystalline system
presents no variability in types, but a rigid adherence to specific forms of definitely determined
value. Whatever geometrical figure any particular crystal assumed at first, it has continued
to assume ever since, and will forever assume hereafter. As a primary conception of the "Divine
Intendment" (to speak after the manner of Leibnitz) it can neither change itself, nor become
subject to any law of change, or variability, from eternally fixed types. And this is as demonstrably
true of all living types, after reaching the point of heredity, as of the countless crystalline
forms that go to make up the principal bulk of our planet. In this light, and as affording
this conclusive induction, the crystalline argument of the materialists has its value.

The materialists should not too mincingly chop logic over the validity of their own reasoning.
If they force upon us their conclusions respecting statical aggregates, or crystalline forms,
let them accept the inductions that inevitably follow in the case of dynamical aggregates,
or living organisms. Beggars of conditions should not be choosers of conditions, nor should
they be al lowed to dodge equivalent judgments where the validity of one proposition manifestly
rests upon that of another. If they insist upon the presence of a chemical unit, or, worse
still, a crystalline "germ" or unit, in the case of statical aggregations, they are effectually
estopped from denying the presence of vital units in dynamical aggregations. And if they further
force upon us the conviction that the process of aggregation, when once determined, remains
in the one case, eternally fixed and certain, they should not be permitted to turn round and
insist that, in the other case, there is nothing fixed and certain, but all is variability,
change, uncertainty of specific forms. If vital units have only a hypothetical existence, then
chemical units, statical units, and morphological units, should fall into the same categories
of judgment.

A great deal of needless ingenuity has been wasted, both by the vitalists and materialists,
in formulating impossible definitions of life--in attempts to tell us what life is. But Mr.
Herbert Spencer is believed, by his many admirers, to have hit upon the precise explanatory
phrases necessary to convey its true definitional meaning. He defines it as "the continuous
adjustment of internal relations to external relations." This definition, when first formulated,
was received by all the materialists of Europe with the wildest enthusiasm. It was absolutely
perfect. All the phenomenal facts of life fitted into it, as one box, in a nest of them, fitted
into another. The universal world was challenged to show that any other phenomenal fact than
the one of life would fit into this prodigious formula of Mr. Spencer. The London "Times" tried
its hand on it, but only in a playful way. It said: "All the world, or at least all living
things, are nothing but large boxes containing an infinite number of little boxes, one within
the other, and the least and tiniest box of all contains the germ,"--the elementary principle
of life. But this was hardly a legitimate characterization. A nest of boxes presents no idea
of "continuous adjustment," nor are the internal relations of one box adjusted to the external
relations of another. The definition is really that of a piece of working machinery--any working
machinery--and was designed to cover Mr. Spencer's theory of "molecular machinery" as run by
molecular force.

But the earth presents the most perfect adjustment of internal relations to those that are
external, and it continuously presents them. Even the upheaval of its fire-spitting mountains
affords the highest demonstration of the adjustment of its inner terrestrial forces to those
that are purely external; and much more does it show the adjustment of its internal to its
external relations. There is a continuous adaptation of means to ends, of causes to effects,
of adjustments to re-adjustments, in respect to the characteristics of the earth's surface--its
physical configuration, the distribution of its fluids and solids, its fauna and flora, its
hygrometric and thermometric conditions, its ocean, wind, and electro-magnetic currents, and
even its meteorological manifestations--all showing a continuous adjustment of interior to
exterior conditions or relations. The earth should, therefore, fall under the category of "life,"
according to Herbert Spencer's definitional formula. And so should an automatic dancing-jack
that is made to run by internal adjustments to external movements or manifestations. There
are any number of Professor Bastian's "ephemoromorphs" that do not live half as long as one
of these automatic dancing-jacks will run, and so long as they run, the adjustment of their
internal to their external relations is continuous.

The success of Mr. Spencer's definition of "life" encouraged Professor Bastian to try his hand
at it, with this definitional result: "Life," he says, "is an unstable collocation of Matter
(with a big M), capable of growing by selection and interstitial appropriation of new matter
(what new matter?) which then assumes similar qualities, of continually varying in composition
in response to variations of its Medium (another big M), and which is capable of self-multiplication
by the separation of portions of its own substance."

It shall not be our fault if the reader fails to understand this definition--to untwist this
formidable formula of life. And we can best aid him by grammatically analyzing its structure. And,

1. "Life is capable of growing." We are glad to know this. As a vitalist it enables us to take
a step towards the front--gets us off the "back seat" to which we were summarily ordered at
the outset of this inquiry. We let its "unstable collocation" pass for what it is worth, and
stick to our grammatical analysis.

2. "Life grows--is capable of doing something." This assurance positively encourages us.

3. "It grows by selection and interstitial appropriation." This is still more encouraging.
It emboldens us to take a second step forward. Life, we feel, is increasing in potentiality.

4. "By appropriation it enables new matter to assume similar qualities to old matter." This
makes us more confident than ever; we take another step forward--are half disposed to take
two of them. Life is getting to be almost a "potentiated potentiality," to adopt the style
of materialistic phrases.

5. "It causes matter to continually vary in composition." Bravo! we unhesitatingly take two
steps forward on the strength of this most comforting assurance. Life is assuredly getting
the upperhand of Matter (with a big M.) It is no longer a mere "undiscovered correlate of motion"--a
hypothetical slave to matter only. It wrestles with it--throws it into the shade. We involuntarily
take several more steps forward.

6. "Life is capable of self-multiplication"--has almost a creative faculty. Here we interject
a perfect bravura of "bravoes," and, stepping boldly up to the front, demand of Professor Bastian
to "throw up the sponge," take a back seat, and there--formulate us a new definition of "life."

But our London University materialist is not entirely satisfied with his own definition, or
at least with the moral effect of it. He thinks that all these attempts to define life as a
non-entity only, tend to keep up the demoralizing idea that it is an actual entity. We entirely
agree with him in this conclusion. The infelicity and entire inconclusiveness of the definition
he has vouchsafed us can hardly have any other effect. He sees this himself, and hence this
foot-note to his great work on Ephemeromorphs: "Inasmuch as no life can exist without an organism,
of which it is the phenomenal manifestation, so it seems comparatively useless to attempt to
define this phenomenal manifestation alone--and, what is worse, such attempts tend to keep
up the idea that life is an independent entity."

It may be objected that our grammatical analysis of the professor's definition of life is unfair,
since he manifestly intended that it should cover a "living thing," and not "life" as an abstract,
term. Our reply to this is, that he makes no distinction between the two. Life, with him, is
simply a phenomenal manifestation. The two are correlative terms; so that his definition of
the one must necessarily be the definition of the other, either as an identical or partial
judgment. But let us take his definition entirely out of its abstract sense, and run it into
the concrete. The able pathological anatomist of the London University college is a "living
thing." He is, therefore, presumably a phenomenal manifestation. He is capable of growing,
by "selection and interstitial appropriation," in reputation at least, if not in the direction
of "an independent entity." His work of twelve hundred pages, covering his laborious delvings
into the ephemeromorphic world, is conclusive on this point. As a phenomenal manifestation
alone, any attempt to define either him or his professional labors, may be worse than useless,
since it would tend to keep up the idea that he is an actual London entity. We are very confident
that he is not a London non-entity, but are willing to agree that he is either the one or the
other. The flaw that we are after lies in his interstitial logic, not in the hallucination
in which he indulges respecting nonentities. His assumption that life cannot exist without
an organism, of which it is the phenomenal manifestation, is what we propose to deal with.

Now, directly the reverse of this proposition is what is true. An organism cannot exist without
life or an independent vital principle in nature, any more than celestial bodies can be held
in their place independently of gravitation. The vital principle that organizes must precede
the thing organized or the living organism, as the great formative principle of the universe
(call it the will of God, gravitation or what you may) must have existed before the first world-aggregation.
In logic, we must either advance or fall back--insist upon precedence being given to cause
over effect, or deny their relative connection altogether. The organism is the phenomenal manifestation,
not the vital principle which organizes it. To say that there can be no manifestation of life
without an organism is true; but to assume that the vital principle which organizes is dependent
on its own organism for its manifestation is absurd. It would be the lesser fallacy to deny
the phenomenal fact altogether, and insist that cause and effect are mere intellectual aberrations,
or such absurd mental processes as find no correlative expression in nature, as that embodying
the idea of either an antecedent or a consequent.

"Plato lived." He ate, he drank, he talked divinely. He was the occupant of an admirably constructed
life-mansion; one that St. Paul would have looked upon as "the temple of God," and all the
world would have recognized as a god-like temple. His head was a study for the Greek chisel;
none was ever more perfectly modeled, or artistically executed. All agreed in this. And yet
it was not the habitat but the habitant that attracted the admiration of the Greek mind; enkindled
its highest enthusiasm; drew all the schools of philosophy, about him at once. It was the lordly
occupant of the temple, the indwelling Archeus, presiding over all the organic phenomena and
directing all the dynamic powers therein, which was so profoundly present in the living Plato.
Even Professor Haeckel, of the famous University of Jena, would not deny this, with all that
his new terms "ontogeny" and "phylogeny" may imply. When potential life passed over into actual
life in the individual Plato, it was not the pabulum that assimilated the man, but the man
the pabulum. If this were not so, then the mere potentiality of growing, as in the case of
plants and animals, would be all there is to distinguish the phenomenal manifestation of a
Plato from that of a mole or a cabbage-stalk. In other words, if the animating principle of
life--or, as the Bible has it, the "animating soul of life"--is not what manifests itself in
material embodiment, but the reverse, what can Professor Haeckel mean by his new term "phylogeny,"
which ought to cover the lines of descent in all organic beings?

If it be a question of mere pabulum, it is altogether mal posA(C). Pabulum is nothing without
a preA"xisting "something" to dispose of it. It is not so much as a jelly-mass breakfast for
one of Professor Haeckel's "protamoebA|;" for if it were served up in advance, there would
be none of his little non-nucleated jelly-eaters to partake of it, much less any of his "protogenes."
As the famous Mrs. Glass would say, in her "hand-book of cookery," if you want a delightful
"curry," first catch your hare. But our ingenious professor of Jena dispenses with both the
hare and the curry, in serving up his pabulum to the "protamoebA|." The improvident pabulum
"evolves" its own eaters, and then, spider-like, is eviscerated by them, as was Actaeon by
his own hounds. As Life, therefore, begins in the tragedy of Mount CithA|ron, it is to be hoped
it will end in the delights of Artemis and her bathing nymphs.

Chapter VIII.

Materialistic Theories of Life Refuted.

The methods by which the advocates of a purely physical origin of life seek to establish the
correctness of their conclusions, are unfortunately not always attended by uniform results
in experimentation. They subject their solutions of organic matter to a very high temperature
by means of super-heated flasks, the tubes to which are so packed in red-hot materials that
whatever air may enter them shall encounter a much greater degree of heat than that indicated
by boiling water. At this temperature (100A deg. C--212A deg. F) they assume that all living
organisms perish, especially when the solutions containing them have been kept, for the space
of fifteen or twenty minutes, at this standard point of heat. But, in the light of all the
experiments which have been made in this direction, there is some doubt as to the entire correctness
of their assumption. That many, if not most living organisms, perish at a temperature of 100A
deg. C, there is little or no doubt; but that there are some which are much more tenacious
of life, that is, possess greater vital resistance to heat, is equally unquestionable.

M. Pasteur, for instance, mentions the spores of certain fungi which are capable of germinating
after an exposure of some minutes to a temperature of 120A deg. to 125A deg. C. (248-257A deg.
F), while the same spores entirely lose their germinating power after an exposure for half
an hour or more to a slightly higher temperature. Dr. Grace-Calvert, in a paper on "The Action
of Heat on Protoplasmic Life," recently published in the proceedings of the Royal Society,
asserts that certain "black vibrios" are capable of resisting the action of fluids at a temperature
as high as 300A deg. F, although exposed therein for half an hour or more. But none of these
crucial tests, however diverse in experimental results, really touch the all-important question
in controversy. They all relate either to living organisms, or to the seeds and spores of vegetation,
not to living indestructible "germs"--invisible vital units--declared to be in the earth itself.

We use the term "vital unit" in the same restricted sense in which the materialists speak of
"chemical units," "morphological units," etc., which they admit are invisible in the microscopic
field, and hence they can have no positive information as to their destructibility or indestructibility
by heat. That this vital unit lies, in its true functional tendencies, between the chemical
and morphological units--manifesting itself in the conditions of the one and resulting in the
structural development of the other--is no new or startling theory, but one that has been more
or less obscurely hinted at by Leibnitz, and even acknowledged as possible by Herbert Spencer.
It is this vital unit that assimilates or aggregates protoplasmic matter into the morphological
cell, or the initial organism in a vital structure, or an approach towards structural form.
Morphological cells are not therefore "units," considered as the least of any given whole,
nor are they mere structureless matter, or any more homogeneous in character than in substance.
Different chemical solutions give rise to different morphological cells, as differently constituted
soils produce different vegetal growths. Change the chemical conditions in any solution or
infusion, and you change the entire morphological character of the infusoria appearing therein.[28]
The cells are living organisms springing from vital units, and can no more manifest themselves
independently of these units than life can manifest itself independently of an actual organism.
And they make their appearance in the proper environing conditions, just as the oak comes from
its primordial germ or vital unit in the chemically changed conditions of the soil. Everywhere
the vital germ or unit precedes the vital growth as the plant or tree precedes the natural
seeds it bears.

This is not only the logical order, but the exact scientific method of vital manifestation
and growth. In this truth lies the whole mystery of vegetal and animal life as hitherto manifested
on our globe, with the single exception of man whose crowning distinction it was to receive
"a living soul." This may be rejected as a scientific statement, but its verification will
appear in the very act of its rejection. Pry as deeply as we may into the arcana of nature
in search of exact scientific truth, and we shall ultimately land in one or the other of these
propositions,--either that nature was originally endowed with some occult and unknown power
"to bring forth," which power is either continuously inherent or continuously imparted, or
else "specific creation" was the predetermined plan and purpose, with no higher or more specialized
animal or vegetal forms than were specifically created in the beginning. Otherwise, we are
inevitably forced back, by our mental processes, which we cannot resist, upon an effect without
a cause--a physical law of the universe without any conceivable law-giver--an all-pervading,
all-energizing principle of matter which must have existed as a cause infinitely anterior to
its first effect. And this is forcing language into such crazy and paralytic conclusions as
to utterly destroy its efficiency as a vehicle of thought.

To conceive of the existence of the universe, or of any possible law that may be operative
therein, without an adequate antecedent cause, is as metaphysically impossible as to conceive
of substance without form, space without extension, or a God who has been superceded in the
universe by the operation of his own laws. For if the world-ordaining and world-arranging intelligence
of the universe has ceased to ordain and arrange,--if all things therein have been left to
the operation of fixed and eternally unchangeable laws--then no further supervisional direction
is required on the part of either an infinite or a finite intelligence, and our idea of a God
must disappear in the paramount induction of a universe which has successfully risen up in
insurrection against its own maker and lawgiver, if it has not remorselessly consigned him
to some inconceivable limbo outside of the universe itself. But this Titanic, and worse than
satanic, insurrection on the part of a universe of matter and motion, is only the conjectural
coinage of the human brain--the wild supposition hazarded by the materialistic mind--and fortunately
has no conceivable counterpart outside of it.

But the palpable blunder, in materialistic science, consists in its overlooking the necessary
outgrowth of theological ideas in the human mind--as conclusively a phenomenal fact of nature
as the invariable uniformity of astronomical movements, the ebb and flow of the tides, or the
electro-magnetic waves of the earth itself. And nature furnishes no greater clue to the one
set of phenomena than the other. For when we say that bodies act one upon another by the force
of gravity, we are no nearer an explication of the force itself, than we should be were we
to allege any corresponding manifestation on the part of the human mind. Kant says; "We cannot
conceive of the existence of matter without the forces of attraction and repulsion--the conflict
of two elementary forces in the universe;" much less can we have any conception of the elementary
forces themselves. Science can, therefore, assign no more conclusive reason for overlooking
psychical manifestations than physical phenomena. Nor is the one set of phenomena any more
marvellous in its manifestations than the other. They may both furnish food for speculative
thought and inquiry, and yet the nearer we get to the ultimate implications of either, the
more completely are we lost in Professor Tyndall's "primordial haze," from which he assumes
that the universe, and all the phenomenal manifestations therein, originally came.

But however rapidly these materialistic theories may disappear in the scientific waste-basket
of the future, there is one sublime verity that will stand the test of all time, and that is,
that the moral universe of God is no less complete, in the Divine Intendment, than the physical
universe, while the latter is so inter-correlated and inter-tissued with the former, in all
its conceivable relations, that it can no more exist independently of its correlative, than
matter can exist independently of space, or time independently of eternity. [29]

According to this view of Leibnitz, all living organisms have their own essence, or essential
qualities and characteristics. They have been from all eternity in the "Divine Intendment,"
and can undergo no changes or modifications which shall make them essentially different from
what they were in the beginning, or are now. This is not only true of the "germs" that are
"in themselves upon the earth," but of every living thing, whether lying within or beyond the
telescopic or microscopic limits. As a law of causation, as well as of consecutive thought,
there must be in the order of life (all life) a continuous chain of ideas linking the past
to the present, the present to the future, and the future to eternity. But that this continuous
chain is dependent on mere physical changes or manifestations, is a logical induction utterly
incapable of being exhibited in scientific formulA|. The higher and more satisfactory induction
is that which places cause before effect, the Maker before the made, the Creator before the
creature, and so on, in the analogical order, till the smallest conceivable "vital unit" is
reached in the universe of organic matter. To begin, therefore, with microscopic observation,
at a point in the ephemeromorphic world where that optical instrument fails to give back any
intelligible answer, and synthetically follow this chain of causation upward and outward to
Dr. Tyndall's "fiery cloud of mist," in which it is assumed that all the diversified possibilities
and potentialities of the universe once lay latent, may answer the logical necessities of the
"Evolution" theory, but will never satisfy the inductive processes of a Plato, a Leibnitz,
or a Newton. But, to be consistent in their inductions, they should proclaim themselves sun-worshippers
at once, and ascribe to that transcendent luminary all the potentialities of a universe

  "Fresh-teeming from the hand of God."

But what possible advantage, we would ask, can this physical hypothesis of life have over that
which ascribes to God the issues of all life in the universe, from the highest to the lowest
living organism? We can positively conceive of none but that of placing the cosmological cart
before the horse, and so harnessing "cause and effect" in tandem, that the latter shall uniformly
precede the former in the chain of logical induction. As a dialectical feat, in exhibiting
the higher possibilities of logic, it may have its advantages in subordinating the facts of
science to the higher illuminations of fancy, and thus resting the basis of reality on the
ever-changing and ever-shifting assumptions of the human mind. For the materialistic theories
of to-day are not those of yesterday, nor is there any certainty that they will be those of
to-morrow. They are almost as fantastic and variable as the forms of the kaleidoscope, although,
as a general rule, they lack the symmetrical arrangements and proportions of that scientific toy.

Professor Bastian, in considering the heterogenetic phenomena of "living matter," is obliged
to fall back, near the end of his great work, on "the countless myriads of living units which
have been evolved (?) in the different ages of the world's history." But by what process a
"vital unit" can be evolved, he does not condescend to tell us. He has no "primordial formless
fog" to fall back upon as has Professor Tyndall, nor can he imagine anything beyond the least
of possible conceptions in a chemical, morphological, or vital unit. A "unit" can neither be
evolved nor involved; it admits of no square, no multiple, no differentiation; it is simply
the ever-potent unit of "organic polarity," by which it multiplies effects, but can never be
multiplied itself. The chief fault that we have to find with the London University professor
is that he confounds a morphological cell with a morphological unit, and insists upon drawing
unwarrantable conclusions therefrom. His "countless myriads of living units" are all well enough
in their way. That they exist in the earth, and are constantly developed into innumerable multitudes
of living organisms, of almost inconceivable variety, in both the animal and vegetal world,
is true, as he half-reluctantly admits in almost the identical language we here use.

And he also admits that morphological cells, when once formed, continue to grow by their own
individual power or inherent tendency. But before they can manifest any such inherent tendency,
they must be developed from the vital units that lie back of them, and on which their manifestation
unquestionably depends. The only doubt that can possibly exist on this point is, that the process
of development cannot be determined by microscopic examination. But we may as well assume the
presence of vital units in the case of dynamical aggregates, as for Professor Bastian to insist
upon crystalline units in the case of statical aggregates or crystals. Both processes, in their
initial stages of development, lie beyond the reach of human scrutiny, and all that we know,
or possibly can know, is, that certain inorganic conditions are favorable for the development
of crystals, as certain organic conditions are favorable for the development of morphological
cells. Beyond this Professor Bastian knows nothing--we know nothing.

Professor Beale, in his recent work on "the Mystery of Life"--one that is now justly attracting
very wide attention--says: "Between the two sets of phenomena, physical and vital, not the
faintest analogy can be shown to exist. The idea of a particle of muscular or nerve tissue
being formed by a process akin to crystallization, appears ridiculous to any one who has studied
the two classes of phenomena, or is acquainted with the structure of these tissues." And he
quietly, yet effectively, ridicules the idea that the ultimate molecules of matter--substantially
the same matter, in fact--have the power to arrange themselves, independently of vital tendency,
alternately into a dog-cell or a man-cell, according to the specific direction they may take,
or the incidence of conditions they may undergo, in their primary movement. And for the benefit
of Professor Beale, behind whose "bioplasts," we place the "vital unit"--not a variable but
a constant unit--we would have him bear in mind (what he so well knows) that the finest fibres
that go to make up these tissues lie quite beyond the microscopic limit in their interlaced
and spirally-coiled reticulations, so that nothing can be predicated of their ultimate contexture,
any more than of the ultimate distribution of matter itself. He has himself traced these wonderfully
minute nerve-ramifications under glasses of the highest magnifying power, and knows that their
ultimate distribution cannot be reached. Let him come out then, as the ablest vitalist now
living, and boldly assert the presence of the man-unit and the dog-unit, instead of falling
back on his bioplastic spinners and weavers of tissue, which are only the servants and willing
workers of the one integral unit, or life-directing force, within. It is far more rational,
and, at the same time, more accordant with strict scientific methods, to attribute these muscular
and nerve reticulations to a single direct cause, than to a multitude of secondary causes.

There is a world-wide difference between the dog-ego and the man-ego; but the physical differences
are not by any means the greatest. The bioplastic spinners and weavers work as obediently for
the one master-ego as the other. They never stop to inquire how far they shall differentiate
this vital tissue or that, or in what direction even they shall work. Not a thread is spun
nor a shuttle thrown that is not directed by the one head-webster of vital tissue. These obedient
bioplasts determine nothing, direct nothing. Each works in his own cell as obediently as a
galley-slave. All specific modifications, all determinate movements, all molecular arrangements,
all multiplications of bioplastic force, are the work of the one vital webster, or principle
of life, within--that which shapes all, directs all, determines all. And this is true from
the first or embryological inception of the dog-unit or "germ," until the real occupant of
the dog-tenement dismisses his bioplastic weavers, and lies down to die. And so of all vital
units. Each determines its own structural form, and unchangeably retains it to the end, even
to the slightest impression of a scar inflicted years and years before. The occupant of this
dog-mansion has dismissed one set of bioplastic weavers after another; has thrown aside this
spun tissue and that warp and woof of woven texture, time and time again, so that the dog of
to-day is not the same physical dog of a year ago; and yet he has the same affection for his
master, carries with him the same scar received twenty years before in the chase, gives the
same glad bark of welcome as his owner nears home, exhibits the same characteristic wag in
his tail, and, lying down to sleep, dreams of the once happy chase in which he is no longer
able to engage. This continuous presence of the same dog, through all these twenty years of
physical change--the old dog reappearing in the new, a dozen times over--is what we mean by
the constantly differentiating yet undifferentiated "dog-unit."

Those who attempt to bisect this vital unit, divide it up into one fractional part after another,
until it shall represent a million bioplastic workers in as many different cells, are committing
the same sort of folly--in principle at least, if not in practice--as that which led the simple-minded
daughters of Pelias to cut up their father, in the expectation of boiling the old bioplasts
into new, and then, by the cunning aid of Medea, who directed the operation, reuniting them
into the one Peliastic-unit they so much delighted to honor. But this first and only recorded
attempt at differentiating a vital unit disastrously failed, as the reader of ancient myths
well knows, although the experiment was conducted by the most careful and loving hands. The
necessary chemical re-agents to reproduce life, as well as the necessary processes of producing
it de novo have not yet been ascertained, nor is it likely they ever will be. And herein lies
the most marked distinction between crystallizable matter and living substance.

And yet there is no evidence that the vital principle perishes in the destruction of its temporary
organism. It is not the material seed that germinates, but the vital principle it contains,
bursting forth from its environment into newness of life. All that can be alleged of either
boiled or calcined seeds is, that the material substances of which they were composed are so
changed in their chemical constituents, or molecular adjustment, that they are no longer capable
of developing, or being developed, into a living organism. "Principles never die," and this
is as true of the vital principles in nature, as those obtaining in ethics and morals. Were
it possible to restore the exact chemical conditions and constituent particles of the boiled
or calcined seed, there is no more doubt that nature would respond to the environing conditions,
and give forth the proper expression of plant-life, than there is that crystals of spar would
make their appearance in an overcharged bath chemically prepared for that purpose. It is not
the albuminous substance enclosed in the seed, but the vital principle therein--that continuously
imparted to nature from the great vital fountain of the universe--which burgeons forth into
life whenever and wherever the required conditions obtain.

In proof of this statement, we might instance any number of cases where recently abandoned
brick-yards and other clayey excavations, were situated at considerable distances from any
natural water-courses, or fish-stocked ponds, from which spawn could have been derived, and
yet these excavations have no sooner been filled with permanently standing rain water, than
certain small fishes of the Cyprinidae and other families, have made their appearance therein.[30]
Nobody has thought of stocking these standing pools of water with the fish in question, nor
has there been any surface overflow to account for their presence, nor any other apparent means
of transportation, if we except the fish-catching birds, and they generally swallow their food
in the water or on the nearest tree to the point of capture. Any theory accounting for the
presence of spawn is, therefore, out of the question. This spawn must have traversed hard clay
deposits for the distance of half a mile or more to make their appearance in these waters.
The only possible explanation of this class of phenomena, and they are by no means infrequent,
is to be found in "favoring conditions" and the "presence of vital units." They are primordial
manifestations of life, and such as would have made their appearance in any corresponding latitude
of the southern hemisphere, under the same favoring conditions.

And this is true of all living organisms from the lowest morphological cell, in the ichthyologic
world, to the highest and lordliest conifer that grows. Their spawn and seeds are perishable
by heat, but the vital principle that organizes them is as imperishable in one element as another.
No seven-times heated furnace, much less the experimental flasks of the physicist, will affect
a vital principle of nature any more than a May-morning puff of the east wind would shake Olympus.
And all the countless myriads of vital units in nature are now manifesting themselves in animal
and vegetal forms, under favoring conditions, the same as in those far-distant epochs of the
world's history when a more exuberant vegetation prevailed, if not a more abounding animal
life. The same persistent, ever-acting law of vital development and growth has been present,
in all conditions and circumstances of matter, ever since the detritus of the silicious rocks
felt the first influence of the rains, the dews, and the sunlight. Then the earth commenced
"to bring forth the grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit-trees yielding fruit, after
his kind;" and in their growth was laid the foundation of animal life. Whether there was any
audible or inaudible command of God uttered at the time, is not the question. It is the fact
of vital growth that we are after, and not the command. The geologic records attest the fact,
as well as the ever-acting vital law; and it is enough for us to know, with sturdy old Richard
Hooker, that all law--and especially all vital law--"has her seat in the bosom of God, and
her voice is the harmony of the world."

Professor Beale, while resolutely combating the physical hypothesis of life, is not a little
unfortunate in his use of scientific terms. He is constantly using those of "living matter"
and "dead matter," as if they contained no fatal concession to the materialists, with which
to completely overthrow his own ultimate conclusions as to life. For he gains nothing by merely
substituting "bioplasm" and "bioplasts" for "protoplasm" and "plastide particles." The essential
plasma in both cases is the same, and behind each lies the vital unit or principle therein
manifested--the invisible, indestructible germ or ZRA of the Bible genesis. Living organisms
come, of course, from this essential plasma, but without an elementary principle or vital unit
therein, there would be no "bioplasts," in the sense in which Professor Beale uses this term.
These bioplasts are living organisms which take up nutrient matter and convert it by assimilation
into tissues, nerves, fibres, bones, etc.--into the higher and more complex organs that go
to make up living structure. This mysterious transmutation of one thing into another, as organic
matter into living organisms, is due to a vitally implanted principle, not to these little
bioplasts, or mere epithelial and other tools with which the vital principle works. To apply
the term "living matter" to the tools with which a living structure is built up, is to lose
sight of the master-mechanic using them for an apparently intelligent purpose. The microscope
may demonstrate that these little bioplasts throb--have life; but there is no intelligent purpose
manifested by them except as they are moved by an unseen hand that conclusively directs the
whole structural work--builds up the one complete symmetrical structure, not its thousand independent
parts having no relation to a general plan. The future lord and occupant of the mansion is
presumably present, and if he uses tools that "throb and have life," it is because everything
he touches is quickened into life that it may be the more obedient to his will. If this structure
be the soul-endowed one of man, the vital principle imparted is that which fashions the epithelial
tools, and uses them, as well in laying the embryological foundation, as in crowning its work
with that many-colored "dome of thought flashing the white radiance of eternity."

Mr. Joseph Cook, who enthusiastically follows Professor Beale in his theory of life, in one
of his "Boston Monday Lectures," says; "It is beyond contradiction that we know that these
little points ('bioplasts') of structureless matter spin the threads, and weave the warp and
woof, of organisms." With all due respect to this distinguished lecturer, we must except to
not less than three points in as many lines of his over-confident statement. In the first place,
we know nothing respecting the "beginnings of life," which may not be contradicted with some
show of reason. Take his own definition of "bioplasts," as copied from Professor Beale, coupled
with what they both term "nutrient matter" and "germinal matter," or bioplasm, and this confident
assertion of his will land him at once where the highest powers of the microscope fail to give
back any intelligible answer, or where neither assertion nor contradiction avails anything.
A bioplast, they tell us, is a germinal point in germinal matter or bioplasm. It is also assumed
that the central portion of every cell in an organic tissue is a bioplast. Here this wonderful
little weaver of tissue sits spinning his threads and weaving them into the warp and woof of
"formed matter"--that which, according to Professor Beale, becomes "dead matter" as soon as
it is woven! But it is admitted that the nerve fibres constitute an uninterrupted network which
admits of no endings--that is, whose ultimate reticulations lie beyond the microscopic limit.
But there is a cell in every hundredth part of an inch of these ultimate reticulations, in
each of which one of these bioplastic weavers sits plying his threads into the warp and woof
of nerve tissue, if not of nerve force. What is known of these little weavers, either by Mr.
Joseph Cook or Professor Lionel S. Beale? Manifestly nothing, unless they have been specially
favored with microscopes of over 2,800 diameters--the highest yet made,--and have fathomed
the ultimate implications of nerve force; an assumption on the part of the Boston lecturer
to which we are bound to except.

Nor are these "bioplasts" mere structureless matter, however minute they may be as "little
points." They differ only from "morphological cells," in the definitional language employed
by different theorists, and lack the all-essential accuracy of distinction necessary to scientific
classification. To define a bioplast as a germinal point in germinal matter, or bioplasm, is
to draw no satisfactory line of distinction between the two, except that the one is a mere
aggregation of the other. A germinal mass is only made up of germinal points--those considered
as the least of any given whole--however infinitesimal they may be in theoretical statement.
If any germinal point in germinal matter, therefore, be a bioplast, then every germinal point,
to the extent of making up its entire mass, must be a bioplast; and the distinction between
the two becomes merely verbal, and without generic signification. But every morphological cell
is conceded to be an organism, whether it lie within or beyond the microscopic limit. And it
invariably exhibits a greater or less amount of cellular activity at its centre. It grows rather
than spins; it builds up tissue, rather than weaves it into warp and woof; it assimilates nutritive
matter rather than plies a loom in any conceivable sense in which we may view that industrial
machine. No matter what we may call this point of vital activity in a cell--whether it be a
bioplast, a plastid, a physiological unit, or a granule of "elementary life-stuff"--it simply
performs the one single function of life to which it is specifically assigned in the process
of "building up" any one identical individual of a species, whether it be a man, an ape, a
tree, or a parasitic fungus. The very admission that the bioplast spins, makes it an organism,
and not mere structureless matter. For the first thread it spins is manifestly for its own
covering or the ornamentation of its own cell-walls. And to speak of these as "structureless
matter" is to confound all scientific sense, as well as meaning.

The third objection to Mr. Cook's statement is, that if bioplasts spin, it is as dependent,
and not as independent machines or agencies. There are millions of these bioplasts--taking
the word in the sense in which Professor Beale uses it--in every living organism considered
as a biological whole. In the case of man, there are millions of them within a comparatively
small compass; and each has its own cell to which its specific work is assigned. Now, these
germinal points, or bioplasts, in each of these myriads of cells, work, not separately and
independently, like so many oysters in their respective shells, but harmoniously and together,
as if under the supervisional direction of one supreme architect and builder. This builder
is that one elementary principle of life, appertaining to each specific individual as a species,
with which nature was endowed from the beginning, and which, in the case of man, was a direct
emanation from Deity. It is this vital principle manifesting itself in all living organisms,
not from them; directing Professor Beale's "bioplastic weavers," not directed by them; availing
itself of necessary plasmic conditions, if not giving rise to them in the first instance; observing
no developmental processes by which one form of life laps over upon another, and following
no order but that of universal harmony in the Divine intendment. There is struggle and rivalry
for existence, even among the same classes, orders, genera, and species, and the smallest and
weakest must give place to the largest and strongest everywhere, and vice versa, as Time, the
greatest of all rodents, gnaws away at the mystical tree of life. But in every living organism,
from the lowest and simplest to the highest and most complex, all bioplastic spinners of filamentous
tissue, all plastide weavers of membranous or spun matter, all epithelial bobbin-runners, and
other anatomical helpers and workers, perform their respective tasks under the special supervision
we have named, that is, under the higher unit of life. They all work for the advancement and
well-being of the higher organism of which they form a component and necessarily subordinate part.

The fact that Professor Beale has discovered that what he calls bioplasm and germinal points
or bioplasts may take on a distinct and separate color from tissue, when subjected to a solution
of carmine in ammonia, is no evidence that he has penetrated the adytum of this sacred temple
of Life, wherein lies the "mystery of mysteries." It is an important discovery so far as tracing
tissue is concerned, but it admits him into no higher mystery within the temple built by God
than another may attain to by the accidental discovery that the tissues may take on the same
color in some other solution--by no means an improbable discovery. Carmine in ammonia is not
the only solution that may aid science in the investigations now being carried forward by the
vitalists and non-vitalists with so much bitterness and asperity of feeling between them; and
now that Professor Beale has made his happy discovery, it is by no means certain that some
other equally persistent worker in this interesting field of inquiry may not hit upon quite
as happy a discovery in the same or some equivalent direction--one that shall throw the bioplasmic
theory as far into the shade as Mr. Cook thinks the bioplasts have already thrown the cells.

But decidedly the most objectionable statement of Professor Beale, although one confidently
re-affirmed by our "Boston Monday Lecturer," is that which makes bioplasm and bioplasts the
only "living matter." We have already referred to the phrases "living matter" and "non-living
matter" as altogether objectionable in biological statement, since they are more than half-way
concessions to the materialists, who contemptuously order the vitalists to take a "back seat"
in the discussions now going forward as to the true origin of life. But the objection we here
make is less technical, and touches a far more vital point in the inquiry. It is true that
Professor Beale speaks of "formed matter," as if it were a peculiar something--a sort of tertium
quid--between living and non-living matter. But he distinctly avers that the substance which
turns red in his carmine solutions is the "only living matter," and hence asserts, inferentially
at least, that all other matter, in any and every living organism, is "dead matter." But we
may just as confidently aver that no matter is living in any vital organism which has not been
assimilated and built up into living membranous tissue capable of responding (in the case of
man) to his will, as well as performing the autonomous functions of plants and the lower animals.
For all these membranous tissues are innumerably thronged with bioplasts or plastide particles,
not for the purposes of obedience to man's will, or of performing any autonomous function,
but simply to supply the tissues with the necessary nutrient matter to make up for the constant
waste that is going on in a healthy living organ. This waste is very much greater than has
heretofore been supposed, so that the man or animal of to-day may be an entirely distinct and
separate one, considered materially, from that of a year or more ago. And this averment would
have a decided advantage over Professor Beale's, since, in meeting a friend, we might be certain
that four-fifths of him at least was alive, while the other one-fifth was industriously at
work to keep him alive, instead of a stalking corpse, as he would otherwise be, upon the street.
Besides, it would obviate the necessity, on the part of the vitalists, of giving themselves
four-fifths away to the materialists, as Professor Beale virtually does in the argument.

The too rude touch of a child's hand will rob the canary bird of its life--stifle its musical
throat, hush its most ecstatic note, still its exquisite song, and render forever mute and
silent its voice. But where are Professor Beale's bioplasts which, but a moment before, were
not only weaving the nerves, tissues, muscles, bones, and even the wonderful plumage of this
canary bird, but plying the invisible threads of song--throwing off its chirps, carols, trills,
quavers, airs, overtures and brilliant roulades, as if the little vocalist had caught its inspiration
from the very skies? Where, we repeat, are these bioplasts now? They are all quietly and industriously
at work as before. The occupant of the song-mansion is gone, but not one of these bioplasts
has dropped a clew, thrown down a shuttle, abandoned a loom, or fled in dismay to the core
of its cell. They still pulsate, throb, throw off tissue. No chemical change has yet intervened
to break down their cell-walls, or interfere with the occupations assigned them. The machinery
that ran their looms is stopped--that is all. The invisible shuttles have ceased to ply--the
meshes of their tangled webs are broken--the more delicate threads of song are snapped in sunder,
but the bioplastic spinners and weavers are all there. Not one of them has been displaced from
its seat, nor in any way disturbed or molested in its work. If they are conscious of any danger,
it is that the occupant of this little song-mansion has suddenly stepped out--is no longer
present to direct their tasks. The icy hand of decay and death will soon be upon them--these
poor bioplastic weavers of tissue--but the vocal spark, the "bright gem instinct with music,"
is beyond the reach of these dusky messengers. Where it is, not man, but the Giver of all life
knows. We only know, when our faith is uplifted by inspiration, that--

  "The soul of music never dies,
     Nor slumbers in its shell;
  'Tis sphere-descended from the skies,
     And thence returns to dwell."

Chapter IX.

Force-Correlation, Differentiation and Other Life Theories.

Among the more startling, if not decidedly brilliant, vital theories which have been advanced
within the last few years, is that which makes life an "undiscovered correlative of force."
Those who have the reputation of being the profoundest thinkers and delvers in the newly-discovered
realm of Force-correlation in Europe, and who have more or less modestly contributed to that
reputation themselves, have evidently thought to eclipse, if not to entirely throw into the
shade, the great exploit of Leverrier, in pointing out the exact place in their empirical heavens
where the superior optics of some future observer shall behold, in all its glory, this "undiscovered
correlative of force," which they have indicated as lying within the higher possibilities and
potentialities of matter. Precisely what they mean by this undiscovered correlate, is what
puzzles us quite as much to determine as it does the materialists to explain. Were they to
define life as an "undiscovered force" simply, their definition would manifestly lack in brilliancy
what it would conclusively make up in precision and accuracy of definitional statement. But
such a poor metaphrastic and half-circular exposition of vital force would never answer the
necessities of that profounder profundity required for the success of modern scientific treatises.
Hence the interpolation of this "correlative" of theirs. Let us ascertain, if we can, what
it means, since they are so chary of informing us themselves.

A "correlate" of a thing--any thing--simply implies the reciprocal relation it bears to some
other thing. As a cognate term it expresses nothing, can express nothing, but reciprocity of
relationship, such as father to son, brother to sister, uncle to aunt, nephews to nieces, etc.
As applied to vital force, it means nothing more nor less than that this particular force stands
in some sort of relationship to the other forces of nature, or, as they would have us believe,
the material forces of nature. And the simple strength or potentiality of this relationship
is what makes all the difference between the severally related forces of the universe, since
it would be as impossible to differentiate a fixed relationship as to change the nature of
vital units. But whether vital force, as a distinct correlate, is paternal or filial, brotherly
or sisterly, avuncular or amital in its relationship, is not stated. The scientific formula,
however, may be stated thus: As A (chemical force) is to B (molecular force) so is C (a third
known force) to x (the vital or unknown force); so that, by multiplying the antecedents and
consequents together, and eliminating the value of x, we may mathematically obtain the value
of vital force.

But to eliminate the value of x is what troubles them. Herbert Spencer has tried his hand at
it, but failed to express life under any higher correlation than "molecular force;" nor can
he definitely inform us whether either force is third or fourth cousin to the other. But he
manifestly regards their relationship as constituting either a very attractive or highly repulsive
force. In his vexation at not finding the value of x, he is driven from mathematical to mechanical
biology, and gives us this new definitional value of life--that singularly contumacious quantity
which so persistently refuses to be eliminated in scientific equations: "Life is molecular
machinery worked by molecular force." But as Professor Beale has utterly demoralized, if not
demolished, this machinery, in his recent treatise on "The Mystery of Life," we will spare
it any further blows, and proceed to the consideration of "molecular force."

Before we proceed however, to the consideration of this force, let us definitely understand
the meaning of the terms we shall be called upon to use. We can have no difficulty in understanding
the meaning of "molecular attraction," or that force acting immediately on the integrant molecules
or particles of a body, as distinguished from the attraction of gravitation which acts at unlimited
distances. But when it comes to ascribing other and higher manifestations of power to molecules,
such as have not been scientifically shown to exist, we must feel our way with caution, and
demand of these pretentious molecules, or rather of their materialistic backers, a reason for
the faith, or rather force, that is in them.

It is agreed by all physicists, as well as chemists, that a "molecule" is the smallest conceivable
quantity of a simple or compound substance, as an "atom" is the smallest conceivable quantity
of an element which enters into combination with other elements to form material substance.
For instance, the smallest conceivable quantity of water is a molecule, while the smallest
conceivable quantity of either of the two elements of which water is composed, is an atom.
In every molecule of water, therefore, there are three elementary atoms, two of hydrogen and
one of oxygen. And since a molecule, as a general rule, contains two or more atoms, and may
contain many of them, why not predicate dynamic force of the atoms, which lie one step nearer
the elementary forces of nature? For the mightiest forces of nature lie in these elements,
when forced into unnatural alliances, or chained up in durance vile. It is in the elements
of matter, and not in its molecules, that this tremendous dynamic force resides. Man, knowing
this, harnesses them into his service, first by forcing them into unnatural alliances, as in
the case of charcoal, sulphur and saltpetre, and then successfully pitting them in conflict
against the rocks and the general inertia of matter. To charge all the destructive work they
do on the innocent and harmless molecules, which are two steps removed from the actual force
expended, is drawing conclusions from the sheerest hypothetical data. It is the office of "molecular
force," if there is any meaning to the term beyond what is expressed by "molecular attraction,"
to conserve matter--bind rocks together, not rend them in sunder.

If the dynamic forces of nature lie pent up in the molecules, then man must array molecular
force against molecular force in order to rend rocks and tear mountains in sunder. This theory
of molecular force, as extended to vital physics in the force-doctrine of life, is irreconcilably
at war with the principal phenomena of life, and should be classed with the other undiscovered
correlates of force, which Professor Beale speaks of as "the fictions of a mechanical imagination."
The truth is that these much abused and much slandered molecules are the most innocent and
harmless things in nature. They never become destructive unless some other force than that
inhering in themselves drags them into its service and hurls them along a devastating path.
Of themselves, they are the very quintessence of quiessence in the universe, and, when formed
in nature's laboratory, at once seek quiet and loving companionship with kindred molecules,
and retain it forever afterwards. The idea that they should break away from their loving molecular
embrace, and, by any process of differentiation or constructive agency of their own, seek an
alliance with some living dog-germ in order to be built up into living dog-tissue, presents
about as perverse and wayward an impulse on the part of matter as can well be imagined by the
scientific mind. That the dog-germ should seek to get hold of, and differentiate them, we can
well understand. The Circean witchery and enticement is all on the part of the dog-germ, not
in the inclination of the molecules.

If there is any truth in this molecular-force-theory of life, it is about time for us to discard
some of the old categories respecting matter, motion, and life, and substitute new ones in
their place. In the multiplicity of new scientific terms constantly springing up for recognition
in these days, there ought to be no difficulty in expressing the true categories, and assigning
to them their proper definitional value. To include physical force, chemical force, molecular
force, and vital force all under one and the same category, and then interpret their several
modes of action on any theory of force-correlation, is not emancipating language from the gross
thraldom into which their "molecular machinery" has driven it. Besides, there is moral force,
mental force, the force of will, the force of reason, the force of honesty, the force of fraud,
etc., and any number of other forces, all possessing more or less impetus or momentum, and
capable of binding or coercing persons and things, in all their diversified relations, correlations,
incidences, coincidences, affinities, antagonisms, and so on through an interminable chapter
of interchangeable predications. All these different expressions of force are to be tethered
together--definitionally bound hand and foot--under the one explanatory head of "force-correlation."
We protest against the labor of thus unifying all the natural forces of the universe, even
if it were practicable under scientific methods.

But Professor Tyndall denies that "molecular groupings" and "molecular motions" explain anything--account
for anything--in the way of explicating life-manifestations, or determining what life is.[31]
And it would be difficult to cite a stronger and more determined materialist as authority on
the point we are considering. He says: "If love were known to be associated with a right-handed
spiral motion of the molecules of the brain, and hate with the left-handed, we should remain
as ignorant as before, as to the cause of motion." But there is no proof that the molecules
of the brain manifest any other motions than those necessary for keeping up the normal condition
of health and vital activity in the brain itself. No one can be certain that he has seen these
molecules in a state of mental activity; for where portions of the human brain have been exposed
to microscopic examination, even in perfect states of consciousness on the part of those whose
brains have been laid bare, there can be no certainty that the molecular action, if any, is
referable to one set of movements more than another. And even in the case of animalcules, as
seen in the object glass of the microscope, there is no absolute certainty that their quick,
darting or jerking movements are due to any life-manifestation, as heretofore assumed. Some
quite as well defined forms are entirely motionless, and if all were so, it would be idle to
predicate vitality of them.[32] These infinitessimal and constantly varying forms, many of
them not the one hundred-thousandth part of an inch in length, to say nothing of their other
dimensions, may owe their oscillations, wave movements, darting and other manifestations, and
even their molecular arrangements and rearrangements, to other causes than those strictly "vital."
And it should be borne in mind that their actual movements are just as much exaggerated under
the microscope as their real dimensions. But as they make their appearance in organic infusions
only, they are presumably vital organisms rather than fomentative or mere filamentous yeast-manifestations.

Professor Huxley, while conceding that molecular changes may take place under environing life-conditions,
or in protoplasmic matter, denies that the "primordial cells" possesses in any degree the characteristics
of a "machine," nor can they undergo any differentiating process by which the character of
their manifestations can be changed. And he even denies to them the poor right to originate
or in any way modify their own plasma. This is undoubtedly true of all cells in which the vital
or functional office has ceased, as in the case of Professor Beale's "formed matter." The cells
are the result of the vital principle that lies behind them, and simply indicate where life
exists, or has manifestly ceased to exist. Where the vital currents have ceased to flow, the
wreck of primordial cells is quite as wide and disastrous as where millions of sea-shells have
been strewn along a desolated and storm-swept sea-beach. They all come, both the cells and
shells, from the preA"xisting vital units, or determinate germs, that fall into their own incidences
of movement, without any concurrence of physical conditions beyond their own inherent tendency
to development. For "conditions" do not determine life; they only favor its manifestation.

But some of the materialists claim that what we call "vital units," or invisible, indestructible
germs,[33] are at best only "physical relations;" that they have nothing more than a hypothetical
existence, without any independent recognizable quality justifying our conclusions respecting
them. But may not this identical language be retortively suggested in the case of their "correlates
of force?" What more than a hypothetical existence have they? Certainly their enthusiasm to
get rid of all vital conditions or manifestations, is quite as marked a feature in their speculations
respecting life as any enthusiasm we have shown in the verification of vital phenomena, on
the established law of cause and effect. They insist upon this law in the case of statical
aggregates, and even assign absolute identity of attributes; but when it comes to dynamical
aggregates, they fall back on partial identity only, and deny the presence of the law altogether.

Nor are they any more felicitous in their treatment of other points in controversy. In speaking
of his "plastide particles," Professor Bastian, the most defiant challenger of vitalistic propositions
now living, says: "Certain of these particles, through default of necessary conditions, never
actually develop into higher modes of being." Here he makes the absence of "necessary conditions"
the cause of non-development, while he stoutly denies that the presence of such "conditions"
give rise to the development of a pre-existing vital unit. And yet, strange to say, he speaks
of the elemental origin of "living matter" as "having probably taken place on the surface of
our globe since the far-remote period when such matter was first engendered." But how his "sum-total
of external conditions," acting upon dead matter, can "engender" living matter, is one of those
"related heterogenetic phenomena" which he does not condescend to explain. It is by this sort
of scientific verbiage that he gets rid of the pre-existing vital principle, or germinal principle
of life, which the biblical genesis declares to be in the earth itself.

To be entirely consistent with himself, he should deny the existence of this germinal principle
in the seeds of plants themselves, and insist upon the sum-total of external conditions as
the cause of all life-manifestations, in the vegetal as in the animal world. There can be no
inherent tendency, he should insist, in the seed itself towards structural development, but
only external conditions acting upon "dead matter," in heterogentic directions. The shooting
down of the radicle or undeveloped root, and the springing up of the plumule or undeveloped
stalk, is accordingly due to no vital principle in the seed, but to the complexity or entanglement
of the molecules wrapped up in their integumentary environment. And this, or some similar fortuitous
entanglement of molecules, should account for all life-manifestations, as well as all life-tendencies,
in nature. These molecular entanglements should, therefore, be infinite in number, as well
as in fortuitous complexity, to account for all the myriad forms of life "engendered from dead
matter" in the material universe.

For if there is any one thing that the materialists insist upon more resolutely than another,
it is the fortuitousness of nature--the happening by chance of whatever she does. Formerly
it used to be the "fortuitous concourse of atoms;" now it is the "fortuitous aggregate of molecules."
By what accidental or fortuitous happening the atoms have dropped out of their scientific categories,
and the molecules have been advanced to their commanding place in absolute accidentalness,
is one of those unassignable causes in which they apparently so much delight. We can only account
for it on the supposition that they have all become worshippers of that blind and accidental
Greek goddess, who bore the horn of Amalthea and plentifully endowed her followers with a wealth
of language and other much-coveted gifts, but not with the most desirable knack at disposing
of them.

The true cause of vital phenomena manifestly depends on these two conditions--the presence
of the specific vital unit, and the necessary environing plasma, or nutrient matter, for its
primary development. Without the presence of both of these conditions, or conditioning incidences,
there can be no life-manifestation anywhere. And we do not see that anything is gained, even
in the matter of scientific nomenclature, by merely substituting "molecular force" for "vital
force," in the explication of vital phenomena. Even granting that molecular changes do take
place during the development of the vital units in their necessary plasmic environment; it
by no means follows that these changes are not dependent on the vital principle as it acts,
rather than on the molecules as they act,[34] The higher force should always subordinate the
lower in all metamorphic, as well as other processes, of nature. It is the vital principle
that differentiates matter--the aggregate of molecules--not matter differentiating the vital
principle. No "molA(C)cules organiques" can ever differentiate an ape-unit into a man-unit,
any more than Professor Tyndall can fetch a Plato out of mere sky-mist. Once an ape-unit, always
an ape-unit; once a man-unit, eternally a man-unit.

Let the vitalists stick to this proposition--this eternally fixed unit as "une idA(C)e dans
l'entendement de Dieu,"  (to use a better French expression than English)--and they can fight
the materialists off their own ground anywhere. The one sublime verity of the universe is that
"life exists," and that it has existed from all eternity as possible in the Divine mind, and
in the Divine mind alone. If materialistic science is disposed to butt its head against this
impregnable proposition, it can do so. The proposition will stand, whatever may happen to the
inconsiderate head.

For science may press her devotees into as many different pursuits as there are starting-points
to an azimuth circle, and command them to search and find out the ultimate causes of things
in the universe, but the forever narrowing circle in one direction, and the forever widening
one in the other, would utterly baffle all their attempted research. Whether they descended
into the microscopic world, with its myriad-thronged conditions of life, or passed upward and
outward, in Sirius-distances, to the irresolvable nebulA|, where other and perhaps brighter
stars might burst upon their view--gleaming coldly and silently down the still enormous fissures
and chasms in the heavens--the result would be the same. Wider and wider fields of observation
might open upon their view, as the stellar swarms thickened and the power of human vision failed,
but the uranological expedition would return no wiser than when it started, and Science would
still be confronted with the same illimitability of space, the same infinitude of matter, and
the same incomprehensibility of the world-arranging intelligence that lies beyond. For He who
hath garnished the heavens by his spirit--who divideth the sea with his power, and hangeth
the earth upon nothing--"holdeth back the face of his throne and spreadeth his cloud upon it."

What if, in one direction, we should find those inconceivably small specks, or mere bioplastic
points, which we call "living matter," or, in the other direction, those inconceivably vast
world-forming masses which we call "dead matter," who shall say that "the secret places of
the Most High" are not hidden from us, or that when the spirit of God first moved through these
vast fissures and chasms in the heavens upon the face of all matter, there was not imparted
to it that "animating principle of life" of which the biblical genesis speaks, and which we
everywhere see manifesting itself in nature? Surely this inquiry is not one to be superciliously
set aside by the materialists, after the failure of their uranological expedition, on the ground
that it does not furnish food enough for scientific contemplation, without such physiological
fancies as their specialists have been giving us in the shape of force-correlations and molecular
theories of life.

But speaking of the higher forces as subordinating the lower, suggests that there should be
something more definitely explained regarding the hypothesis of "differentiation," on which
Mr. Herbert Spencer hangs so much of his mathematical faith in the true explication of vital
phenomena. The term "differentiation" is not so formidable as it might seem to the general
reader at first sight. As applied to physiological problems it should have the same determinate
value, in expressing functional differences, as in the higher operations of mathematics. Nothing
can, of course, differentiate itself, nor can any two things differentiate each other, even
when functionally allied. The actual coA"fficient sought is the difference effected, in functional
value, in one of two independent variables. For all formulA| in differentiation are constructed
on the hypothesis that only one of two variables suffers change. The differential coA"fficient
has yet to be determined which shall express the developmental changes in two variables at
once. When, therefore, we attempt to extend the formulA| of differentiation to plant and animal
life, we are confronted by a very formidable difficulty at the outset--the impossibility of
determining an invariable coA"fficient for any two variables. Besides, all attempts at differentiating
an ape-unit into anything else than an ape-unit would be as impossible as to multiply or divide
cabbages by turnips, or sparrows by sparrowhawks. Such divisions would give us no quotients,
any more than their differentiations would give us a coA"fficient. Physiological differentiation
will, therefore, never help us out of fixed species or nearly allied types. We can bridge no
specific differences by it. In the differentiation of the horse and the ass for instance, the
superior blood will predominate in the preservation of types, and even the mule will kick against
further differentiation. Nature would so utterly abhor the practice as resolutely to slam the
door in Mr. Spencer's face, if the obstinacy of the mule did not kick it off its hinges.

And nature would be quite as intractable in the case of "force-correlation," another of Mr.
Spencer's redoubtable phrases. This term is quite recent in its application to animate objects,
nor has it been long applied to inanimate. It is claimed to be a recently discovered force,
and is one that the materialists have seized upon as the Herculean club with which to smite
all vital theories to the earth. Its meaning, so far as it has any, is not difficult to get
at. The simplest way to explain it, however, is the best. The reader is to understand that
when he rubs two flat sticks together, the heat thereby engendered is not the result of friction,
as all the world has heretofore supposed, but that the amount of force expended in rubbing
the right-hand stick against the left-hand stick, is, by some law of versability, not over-well
defined, transferred to the two sticks, and gets so entangled between their surfaces that it
can only reappear in another and altogether different kind of force. When it leaves the hands
and passes into the two sticks, it is, as the materialists assert, vital force. But as no force
can be annihilated, the conclusive assumption is that it still exists somewhere. All of it,
in the first place, went into the two flat sticks, and, when there, ceased to be vital force.
Some of it disappeared, of course, in overcoming the inertia of the sticks, but the bulk of
it became entangled with the superficial molecules of the two sticks, and reappeared as heat--another
name for molecular force.

This is what is meant by the "differentiation" of vital force into molecular force, and vice
versa. But by what process of rubbing, under this law of versability, molecular force can be
reversed, or differentiated back into vital force, Mr. Spencer has not condescended to inform
us. The simple truth is, and the materialists will be forced to admit it in the end, that there
is no verification of this theory beyond that of mere force-equivalence. For instance, it has
been experimentally determined that a certain amount of fuel expended in heat is equivalent
to a certain amount of mechanical force, not mechanical work, as M. Carnot puts it. For force
is not expended in work until it is actually generated, and the amount generated, not that
expended in work, is the real equivalence of the heat produced from fuel.

Another problem is presented when it comes to determining the amount of generated force necessary
to run a piece of machinery which shall accomplish a given amount of mechanical work.

A far better phrase to express this equivalence of force has been suggested and used by several
writers in what is called the "Transmutation of Force." For there is no correlation, or reciprocal
relation, between heat as originally produced by the consumption of fuel and the force as engendered
in steam before it is transmuted into work. Nor is there any real equivalence as between the
two forces after its transmutation. A very large per centage of heat is lost in its transmutation
from a latent form in fuel to an active or available form in steam, and a still greater loss
in its transmission into work by machinery. Theoretically, there may be such an equivalence
as that named, but practically it is impossible to realize it. And a theory that is impossible
of realization is of no practical utility in itself, and of little value as the basis of further
theory. If, then, the theory of force equivalence is a failure in practical application, it
furnishes a very poor basis on which to predicate force-correlation, or the doctrine of reciprocal
forces. It is estimated, for instance, that a pound weight falling seven hundred and seventy-two
feet, will, in striking the earth, impart to it a degree of heat equivalent to raising one
pound of water 1A deg. F. But the heat thus imparted can never be so utilized as to raise a
pound weight seven hundred and seventy-two feet into the air.

This shows that there is no actual reciprocity of relationship between the force as originally
engendered and finally expended in work. Nor can it be shown that the original force is transmuted
or changed into another and different kind of force by the operation. The force generated and
the force expended are essentially one and the same, as much so as that transmitted from the
power to the weight by means of a rope and pulley. And the quality of the force is not changed,
whether the weight be lifted by machinery or the human hand. Force, in its mechanical sense,
is that power which produces motion, or an alteration in the direction of motion, and is incapable
of being specialized, except in a highly figurative sense, into a thousand and one correlates
of motion. But these miscellaneous and figurative forces are not what we are considering. The
doctrine of force-correlation takes no such wide and comprehensive sweep. It embraces neither
the force of wit, nor the force of folly; but mechanical force and its equivalents. The force
exercised by the human hand in lifting a weight either with or without rope and pulley is,
in every definitional sense of the word, mechanical force. For the arm and hand are only the
implements, or mechanical contrivances of nature, by which the will-power transmutes itself
into work, or, more properly speaking, transmits itself from the point of force-generation
to that of force-expenditure. And this is precisely the office performed by all mechanical
contrivances for the transmission--not transmutation--of force. And the most perfect machine
is that which transmits the engendered force, with the least possible waste or abandonment,
to its point of ultimate expenditure in work.

All these hypothetical correlates of force, therefore, predicated upon the doctrine of force-transmutation,
have no foundation in fact, since the force transmitted from the point of generation to the
point of expenditure undergoes no change but that of direction, in its passage along rope,
wire, belt, pulley, shafting, etc. A man whose limbs have been paralyzed, may still will to
remove mountains. The will-power is the same, but the mechanical contrivances for its transmission
are wanting. Of the actual point or centre of this force-generation, in the case of the will-power,
we know nothing; but the moment the power is started on its way towards the point of force-expenditure,
whether it traverses the nerves and tissues of the brain, or the right arm or the left, or
a crowbar or pickaxe, it is in no sense distinguishable from the force that traverses a rope
and pulley. Nor is there any evidence that it undergoes molecular changes, or becomes modified
or conditioned by any nearly or remotely related force, as it darts along the nerves, runs
through the contracted tissues, electrifies the crowbar, or flashes into work from the point
of a pickaxe. Whatever produces, or tends to produce, motion, or an alteration in its direction,
is mechanical force, no matter from what force-centre it may start. When we can definitely
determine the centre of vital force, as exercised in building up vital structure, not in wielding
pickaxes, it is to be hoped we shall be able to distinguish, by the proper correlates, vital
force from that which is mechanical. But the task is manifestly a hopeless one with the materialists.

Professor Beale positively denies that there are any such physical force-relations as those
claimed by the materialists, and asserts that vital force bears no relation, or correlation,
to either chemical or physical force; that the one is a distinct and separate factor from the
other, and cannot be interpreted in the same force-formulA|. He says: "The idea of motion,
or heat, or light, or electricity forming or building up, or constructing any texture capable
of fulfilling a definite purpose, seems absurd, and opposed to all that is known, and yet is
the notion continually forced upon us, that vitality, which does construct, is but a correlate
of ordinary energy or motion."

But after devoting so much time to "force-correlation," and "force-differentiation," the advocates
of "molecular-machinery" may feel themselves neglected if we dismiss their favorite hobby without
further notice. The precise parentage of this term is disputed, but it has any number of putative
fathers. We have spoken of the size of the molecules themselves, and the numbers of them that
might be huddled together on the point of a cambric needle without jostling. Let us now consider
the size of a molecular machine. For each molecule runs its own machine, and is provident enough
to see that they do not jostle. In fact, it is a very nice question in physics, whether the
machines do not run the molecules, instead of the prevailing opposite opinion that the molecules
run the machines. Unfortunately, the question is one that can never be determined. The requisite
scientific data will forever be wanting.

But Professor James C. Maxwell, now, or quite recently, filling the chair of experimental physics
in the University of Cambridge, England, has furnished us with approximate calculations. On
the strength of his approximations we will proceed to consider the dimensions of these wonderful
little machines. And first, it may be axiomatically laid down that these molecular machines,
which either run the molecules or are run by them, can never exceed the size of their respective
molecules. Conceding, then, that each one of these machines exactly fits into its own molecule,
so as to present identically the same dimensions--as well as their largest possible dimensions--it
would require two millions of them, placed in a row, to make one millimetre, or the one three
hundred and ninety-four thousandths of an inch in length, or seven hundred and eighty-eight
billions of them to make one inch! Who will ever be staggered at Sirius-distances, after this?
And who will deny that an infinite world lies below the point of our microscopic vision, if
not an Infinite kingdom and throne beyond our telescopic glance?

But, following the same high authority in experimental physics, let us consider the aggregate
weight of these molecular machines. We will not marshal their aggregate numbers in a row, for
an array of forty billions of them would make too insignificant a figure for inspection; but
simply give their actual weight as computed under the French or metric system. Take, then,
a million million million million of these machines, throwing in molecules and all, and they
will weigh, if there is no indiscreet kicking of the beam, just a fraction between four and
five grammes, or--to differentiate the weights--a small fraction over one-tenth of an ounce!

But why not get down to the atoms, of which the molecules are only the theoretical congeries,
and marshal the "atomic forces" into line? These embryonic atoms are much the braver warriors,
and, when summoned to do battle, spring, lithe and light-armed, against the elemental foe.
They are no cowardly molecules, these atoms, but make war against Titans, as well as Titanic
thrones and powers. The elements recognize them as their body guardsmen, their corps of invincible
lancers, their bravest and best soldiers in fight. And they are wholly indifferent as to the
legions of molecules arrayed against them, and would as soon hurl a mountain of them into the
sea as to sport with a zephyr or caper with the east wind. Why not summon these countless myriads
of bright and invincible spearmen, to batter down the walls of this Cretan labyrinth of Life?
An army of these would be worth all the molecules that Professor Maxwell could array in line,
in a thousand years. No life-problem need remain unsolved with their bright spears to drive
the tenebrious mists before them. Even Professor Tyndall's "fog-banks of primordial haze" would
be ignominiously scattered in flight before these atomic legions. Let our materialistic friends
summon them, then, to their aid. The field of controversy will never be won by their molecular
"Hessians." The ineffably bright lancers that stand guard over the elemental hosts are the
light brigade with which to rout the vitalistic enemy. Advance them then to the front, and,
beneath the shadowy wing of pestilence or some other appalling ensign of destruction, the abashed
vital squadrons will flee in dismay.

But let us pass from scientific speculations to alleged scientific facts. In a paper read by
Dr. Hughes Bennett before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in 1861, its author says: "The first
step, in the process of organic formation, is the production of an organic fluid; the second,
the precipitation of organic molecules, from which, according to the molecular law of growth,
all other textures are derived either directly or indirectly." Here again the molecules, and
not the elementary atoms, are advanced to the front, and not a little anxiety is shown, in
a definitional way, to identify vital processes of growth with crystalline processes of formation.
But Dr. Bennett entirely mistakes, as well as misstates, the process of vital development,
if he does not overlook the law governing the formation of crystals. There can be no symmetrically
arranged solids in an inorganic fluid without the presence of some law, or principle, definitely
determining, not the "precipitation," but the "formation," of crystals. The inorganic particles
are not precipitated or thrown downward, any more than they are sublevated or thrown upward.
The process is one of formation, not precipitation. Every crystallographer, not hampered by
materialistic views and anti-vital theories, admits the presence of a fixed and determinate
law governing each crystalline system, whatever may be the homologous parts or the unequal
axes it represents.

And so of the equally undeviating law of vital growth. Life comes from no mere "precipitation
of organic molecules," as Dr. Bennett would have us believe. If so, what is it that precipitates
the molecules? They can hardly be said to precipitate themselves. To precipitate, in a chemical
sense, is to be thrown down, or caused to be thrown down, as a substance from its solution.
What, then, causes the molecules to be thus precipitously thrown down from a fluid to a solid,
or a semi-solid, state? It cannot be from any blind or inconsiderate haste on the part of the
molecules themselves. There must be some independent principle, or law of nature--one presupposing
an intelligent law-giver--to effect the "precipitating process," if any such really exists.

But it does not exist. The first step is one of development and growth--the manifestation of
functional activity--the building up of organic or cellular tissue. The exact process, in the
case of seed-bearing plants and trees, is well known. All those familiar with the characteristic
differences of seeds, their chemical constituents, their tegumentary coverings, rudimentary
parts, etc., thoroughly understand the process in its outward manifestation. There is no precipitation
of molecules as in an organic fluid, unless the albumen lying between the embryo and testa
of the seeds, and constituting the nutriment on which the plant feeds during its primary stages
of growth, can be called a fluid. It throws none of its characteristic ingredients downward
any more than upward. Indeed the greater tendency of its molecules is upward rather than downward,
in the "molecular processes" (vital ones) by which the embryonic cell is started upon its career
of plant-life. The celebrated Dr. Liebig says of this albuminous environment: "It is the foundation,
the starting-point, of the whole series of peculiar tissues which constitute those organs which
are the seat of all vital actions." In the case of animal life, this albumen abounds in the
serum of the blood, enters largely into the chyle and lymph, goes to build up the tissues and
muscles, and is the chief ingredient of the nerves, glands, and even the brain itself. And
in all these developmental stages, its tendency is to coagulate rather than precipitate. In
its coagulated condition, it dries to a hard, partially translucent and friable state, and
is more or less insoluble in water, and entirely so at a temperature from 140A deg. to 160A deg. F.

When the seed is planted or placed in water, it first commences to swell from the absorption
of the water or moisture of the ground by the pores of its external covering, the favorable
temperature being from 60A deg. to 80A deg. F. It gradually expands until its outer membranes
burst, and its initial rootlets clasp their hold upon the earth. From this point its several
stages of development are well known to the ordinary observer. Here the first step is absorption
and expansion, not precipitation. There is also a change in chemical conditions, the water
at least being decomposed. For it would seem to be a law of vegetal growth that reproduction
should begin in decomposition and decay. The Apostle's description of the "death of the grain,"
as symbolizing the death of man, in his first Epistle to the Corinthians, points conclusively
in this direction. It is in the decomposition and decay of the grain that the implanted germ
is quickened into life--ascends into the bright light, the warm sunshine, the refreshing presence
of showers and dews. In this way it fulfils its providential purpose of yielding to the sower
the more munificent life which he is forever seeking to attain.

Its germination is the springing up of the inner living principle of the grain, not its outer
envelope or dead husk. This disappears in decay, except the small nutrient portion within which
the germinal principle of life would seem to reside, and which undergoes a thorough chemical
change in the process of passing from death unto life, or being assimilated and taken up into
the new living structure. The Apostle's comparison distinctly marks these several changes as
the one process of passing from death unto life. He saw in this wonderful provision of nature,
the still more wonderful prevision of God. To his mind it was over the debris of the dead past
that the living present is constantly marching towards a higher and more perfect life--the
ultimate fruition and joy of an eternal home in the skies! And he saw that the two grand instrumentalities
and co-accessory agencies to this end, were Life and Death, both equally constant and active,
like all the other instrumentalities and governing agencies of the universe. Life is forever
unlocking the portals of the present to youth and vigor; Death is forever closing them to age
and decrepitude. This divine prevision thus becomes the wisest and most beneficent provision.
Without life there would be no such thing as death, and without death no such thing as this
grand succession and march of life--this passing from out the Shadow into the Day.

Chapter X.

Darwinism Considered from a Vitalistic Stand-Point.

Granting that the assumption of Darwinism rests, as claimed, on the fixed and inflexible adaptation
of means to ends, in the diversified yet measurably specialized processes of nature, there
is no logical deduction to be drawn therefrom but that which traces the representatives of
all the great types of the animal kingdom to one single source, and that not the Sovereign
Intelligence of the Universe, but a mere "ovule in protoplasm," or what may be defined, in
its unaggregated form, as an inconceivably small whirligig, having motion on a central axis,
but whether an independent motion of its own, or one derived from an Infinite Intelligence,
the Darwinian systematizers are not bold enough to aver. They have too many a priori scruples
either to assert the one proposition or to deny the other. What set this little whirligig in
motion is a mystery that lies beyond the purview of science, so called, and into the depths
of this infinitessimal and most mysterious little chamber they refuse to go.

They search not for the evidence of an Infinite Intelligence in the outermost circle of the
heavens where the highest is to be found, and where a bound is set that we may not pass, but
shutting their eyes to all the grander evidences of such an Intelligence, they dive down into
the infinitessimal realm of nature and assume to dig out the sublimer secrets of the universe
there. And this is their grand discovery: That this infinitessimal whirligig of theirs has
not only whirled man into existence, but the entire circle of the heavens, with the innumerable
host of stars that march therein, and all the boundless systems of worlds that roll in space.
With this subordination of the Infinite to the infinitessimal, of intelligence to insensate
matter, of divine energy, so to speak, to blind molecular force, they are satisfied; and, like
the mole in the fable, conceive their little molecule to be the only possible creator of a
stupendous universe.

Scrutinize my propositions closely, and see if I am guilty of misstating theirs. Their new
theory is only a slight modification of an old one, or the old adage, omne vivum ex ovo--all
life is from an egg. For they assert that every living thing primordially proceeds from an
ovule in protoplasm, the essential part of the protoplasmic egg, so to speak, being this little
ovum or cellule, from which have issued all possible organisms in both the vegetable and animal
kingdoms. Nor is this theory essentially confined to organic matter. A scientific coArdination
of its several known parts, or alleged functions, extends the operations of this infinitessimal
whirligig to the plastic or uniformly diffused state of all matter, from which has been evolved,
in an infinite duration of past time, not only life in its highest manifestations, but a universe
so stupendously grand that no amount of human intelligence can grasp the first conception of it.

Mr. Emerson--our Ralph Waldo--virtually accepts this theory of development, substituting, however,
a stomach for an ovule, and the reverse of the Darwinian proposition, in what he is pleased
to call "the incessant opposition of nature to everything hurtful." It is not the "selection
of the fittest" but the "rejection of the unfit," by which "a beneficent necessity (I use his
language) is always bringing things right." "It is in the stomach of plants," he says, "that
development begins, and ends in the circles of the universe." "'Tis a long way," he admits,
"from the gorilla to the gentleman--from the gorilla to Plato, Newton, Shakespeare--to the
sanctities of religion, the refinements of legislation, the summits of science, art, poetry."

Few persons, I take it, will dispute this proposition. The road is a long one and beset with
all sorts of thorns and briars, such as Mr. Emerson's philosophy will hardly eradicate from
the wayside. Even the most refined empiricism will find it difficult to stomach his stomachic
theory of the universe, which lands all atomic or corpuscular philosophy in a digestive sac,
such as Jack Falstaff bore about him with its measureless capacity for potations and Eastcheap
fare. It is a road too in which Mr. Emerson's philosophy will get many sharp raps from an external
world of phenomena, in the futility of both his and the Darwinian hypothesis to explain away
the independent origination of certain species of plants and animals--new varieties still springing
into existence, under favorable conditions, in obedience to the divine fiat, "Let the earth
bring forth."

In laying the foundations of this new science, if science it shall be called, we must insist
that the course of nature is uniform, and that, however extended our generalizations in any
one of her lines of uniformity, all intermediate, as well as ultimate propositions, must not
only be stated with the utmost scientific accuracy, but the logical deductions therefrom must
also be uniform, or lie in the path of uniformity. The earliest and latest inductions must
either coincide or approximate the same end. No links must be broken, no chasms bridged, in
the scientific series. There must be a distinct and separate link connecting each preceding
and each succeeding one in the chain. The lowest known mammal must be found in immediate relationship
with his higher congener or brother, not in any remote cousinship. There must be no saltatory
progress--no leaping over intermediate steps or degrees. The heights of science are not to
be scaled per saltum, except as degrees may sometimes be conferred by our universities.[35]

There are some fish-like animals, say our Darwinian systematizers, like the Lepidosirens and
their congeners, with the characteristics of amphibians; and hence they infer that by successive
deviations and improvements the lower order has risen into the higher. But out of what page
in the volume of nature, in the countless leaves we have turned back, has the immediate congener
dropped, that we are obliged to look for the relationship in thirty-fourth cousins? We might
as well say that some of the Infusoria possess the same or similar characteristics, and predicate
relationship between them and the amphibians; for giants sometimes spring from dwarfs and dwarfs
from giants. At all events, our diagnoses must be freed from these intermediate breaks or failures
in the chain of continuity, or the doctrine of descent must tumble with the imaginary foundations
on which it is built. And bear in mind that the most enthusiastic Darwinist is forced to admit
that there are still rigid partitions between the lower and higher organisms that have not
been pierced by the light of scientific truth, but they assume that future discoveries and
investigations will solve the difficulty. But science, inflexible as she is, or ought to be,
in her demands, admits of no assumptions, much less sanctions such exceptions and deviations
as we constantly find in the Darwinian path of continuity. The eye of imagination can supply
nothing to her vision. She is eagle-eyed, and soars into the bright empyrean--does not dive
into quagmires and the slime of creation after truth.

But let us see how Mr. Darwin bridges one of the very first chasms he meets with in constructing
his chain of generation. He goes back to the first link, or to what he calls primordial generation.
Here the leap is from inorganic matter to the lowest form of organic life--from inanimate to
animate dust. The chasm is immense, as all will agree. But he bridges it by falling back on
his infinitessimal whirligig--his primum mobile--or on the motions of elements as yet inaccessible,
except to the eye of imagination. For even Plato's monad, or ultimate atom, was not matter
itself, being indivisible, but rather a formal unit or primary constituent of matter, which,
like Mr. Darwin's whirligig in its unaggregated form, admits of neither a maximum nor a minimum
of comprehension; but rests entirely on imaginary hypothesis. And we may here add that a system
which begins in imaginary hypotheses and ends in them--as that of bridging the chasmal difference
between a gorilla and a Plato--can be dignified into a science only by a still greater stretch
of the imagination--that of bridging the difference between the Darwinian zero and his ninety
degrees of development in a Darwin himself!

Bear in mind, as we proceed, that the function of an argument in philosophy, as in logic, is
to prove that a certain relation exists between two concepts or objects of thought, when that
relation is not self-evident. In the Darwinian chain we have, as the first link, organic life
springing from inorganic matter, without the slightest relation existing between the two, except
what may be universally predicated of matter itself, whether animate or inanimate, organic
or inorganic; and there is no other affirmative premise, expressing their agreement as extremes,
that can possibly admit of an affirmative conclusion. The parts are so separated in thought
that no metaphysical or ideal distinction exists to coordinate them in classification. We are
simply forced back, in our attempt at classification, upon the intuitions of consciousness,
where reason manifestly ceases to enforce its inductions.

And here the human mind intuitively springs an objection which is at once aimed at the very
citadel of Darwinism. On what rests the validity of these intuitions except it be that "breath
of life," which, as we have before said, was breathed into man when he became a living soul?
If we follow the divine record, instead of these blind systematizers leading the blind, we
shall have no difficulty in establishing the validity of these intuitions--the highest potential
factors this side of Deity to be found anywhere in the universe. For if our intuitions are
not to be relied upon--if their objects and perceptions are to be discarded as unreliable--then
there can be no agreement or disagreement between any two ideas presented, objectively or subjectively,
to the human mind. No processes of mental analysis or ratiocination, like those pursued in
the elementary methods of Euclid, can present the basis of an intellectual judgment, or lay
the foundation of the slightest faith or belief in the world. To deny the primary perception
of truth by intuition is as fatal to "Evolution" as to the sublimer teachings of the Bible Genesis.

But from the very nature of our being, as well as the primary datum of consciousness itself,
we must rest the validity of these intuitions on something, and that, something more than a
finite intelligence; and since science, with all her knowledge methodically digested and arranged,
furnishes no clue to the mystery, we are left to the higher sources of inspiration to reach
it. And this inspiration, however it may be derived, necessarily becomes a part of our intuitions,
since it addresses itself to the strongest possible cravings of the human soul, and is accepted
as its inseparable companion and guest.

Shall we build our faith then on the Divine Word,--on the Word that was in the beginning with
God, and, when incarnate, was God,--or on Mr. Darwin's little whirligig that originally set
everything in motion, and has only to go on ad infinitum to whirl us out a God, as it has already
whirled us out a Darwinian universe without one. For if this ovulistic whirligig has bridged
the chasmal difference between protoplasm and man, since the transition from inorganic matter
to organic life, the process has only to be indefinitely extended to bridge the chasm between
man and Deity, or between finite and infinite intelligence.

These evolutionists manifestly get the cart before the horse in their category of cosmological
events. It is not inert matter organizing itself into life, nor any mode of physical or chemical
action, nor any mere manifestation of motion or of heat, nor any other conceivable correlation
of natural forces. None of these has enabled us to penetrate the mysterious inner-chamber of
life itself. For reasons obviously connected with our own welfare, He, from whom alone are
"the issues of life," seems to have ordained that we should fathom the depths of both physical
and chemical force, and beneficently wield and direct them to our own uses. But this vital
force; this something that stands apart from and is essentially different from all other kinds
of force, is of a nature that baffles all our efforts to approach. The power to grasp it, or
even to penetrate in the slightest degree its mysteries, is delegated to none. All attempts
to lay bare this principle of vitality, or level the barriers that separate it from physical
or chemical action, have utterly failed. We know no more of its essence now than was known
a thousand years ago, and know no less than will be known a thousand years hence. To become
masters of the mystery, we must enter the impenetrable veil within which the Infinite Intelligence
of the universe presides,--who, we are told, "sendeth forth his spirit, and we are created,
who taketh away our breath, we die and return to our dust." [36]

We are just as much bewildered in respect to this vital principle in our classifications of
the myriads of little creatures careering over the field of the microscope, as when we turn
to the most marked formations of genera and species in geological distribution. The great trouble
with Mr. Darwin's vinculum is, that its weakest links are precisely where the strongest should
be found, and vice versa. With a candor rarely displayed by a writer who is spinning a theory,
he admits this. The geological record is not what he would have it to be. Whole chapters are
gone where they are most needed, and nature's lithography seems constantly at fault. Independent
species are now and then springing up where derivatives should be looked for, while derivatives
are everywhere disappearing in non-derivatives. Many of the middle Tertiary molusca, and a
large proportion of the later Tertiary period, are specifically identical with the living species,
of to-day. What has "natural selection" been doing for this family in the last million years
or more? Manifestly nothing, and less than nothing, for some of the species have dropped out
altogether.

These facts, and hundreds of others like them, are constantly obtruding themselves upon our
attention to show, in harmony with the Bible Genesis, the immutability of species--the absolute
fixity of types--rather than their variability, as claimed. If nature abhors anything more
than a vacuum, it is manifestly any marked transition from fixed types, and she thunders her
edicts against it in the non-fertility of all hybrids. The doctrine of variation lacks the
all-essential element of continuity, and is oftener at war with the theory of the "selection
of the fittest," than it is with the selection of the "unfit." The leap from Lepidosirens to
Amphibians is no greater than the interval between any two species of animals or plants yet
discovered, either fossil or living. The intervals are as numerous as the species themselves,
and everywhere constitute great and sudden leaps, or such transitional changes as "natural
selection" could not have effected independently of intervening forms--those that nowhere exist
in nature, and never have existed, if we are to credit geologic and paleontologic records.
There is everywhere similarity of structure, but not identity; and the nearer we approach to
identity of structure the wider the divergence in similarity of characteristics. A bird may
be taught to talk and sing snatches of music. But no monkey has ever been able to articulate
human sounds, much less give them rhythmical utterance.

Take the case of the wild pigeon, a subject that especially delights Mr. Darwin. Most of the
deviations are confined to the domesticated breeds, and none of these rank in strength, hardiness,
capability of flight, or symmetry of structure, with the wild or typical bird. There are well-defined
deviations, but no sensible improvements, except to the eye of the bird-fancier. The deviations
are simply entailed weaknesses, or the very reverse of what should appear from the "selection
of the fittest." The fact undeniably is, that these variations are almost wholly abnormal--mere
exaggerated characteristics, induced in the first instance, perhaps, by high cultivation and
close in-and-in breeding.

Turn these abnormal varieties loose, let them go back to the aboriginal stock, and these characteristics
will rapidly disappear; that is, they will ultimately lose themselves or melt away in the original
type. Mr. Darwin admits that the tendency will be to reversion, but he insists, manifestly
without any positive proof therefor, that the greater tendency is to new centres of attraction,
and not necessarily the primitive one. But this is mere assumption--sheer begging the question
on his part,--since all the oscillations are incontestibly about the original or type centre.

The same may be said of the typical races of men, like the negro and wild Indian of our prairies.
You may lift them out of their primitive condition--temporarily suspend, if you please so to
put it, their primordial attraction,--but, left again to themselves, they will go back to the
original type; that is, their offspring will again infest the jungles and roam their native
hunting-grounds. The process here is the very reverse of the Darwinian theory. Reversion, as
a rule, follows the degeneracy of types, instead of there being any favorable homogeneous result,
springing from a new centre of attraction. The Indian makes a splendid savage, but a very poor
white man. Think of Red Jacket taking the part of Mercutio in the play or enacting the more
valiant role of Falstaff in King Henry the Fourth. An infusion of white blood does not help
the matter, but rather makes it worse. Generally, the meanest Indian on the continent is your
half-breed, and among the negroes there is no term so expressive of the contempt of that race,
as that applied by them to a mulatto. The present condition of Mexico affords a striking exemplification
of this law of reversion. The inheritable characteristics or variations, produced from an infusion
of Spanish blood, are rapidly disappearing--the native blood whipping out the European. The
potency is in the inferior blood, simply because it is the predominating one. The result has
been no homogeneous new race, but a reversion, now manifestly in progress, to the type centre
or aboriginal stock. And the curse pronounced by Ezekiel upon mongrel tribes--"woe unto the
mingled peoples" may have a significance in this connection worth considering; but it manifestly
falls outside the scope of our present inquiry.

But Mr. Darwin's pronominal "we," in this connection, admits of qualification. He can hardly
speak for all the scientific world at once. The philosophical maxim of Sir Isaac Newton--hypotheses
non fingo--I build no hypotheses, make no suppositions, but adhere to facts--has a few followers
still left. But what are Mr. Darwin's facts? Has he yet discovered the caudal man, except as
the ever-fertile Mr. Stanley heard of one in Africa? And where is his monkey that first lost
the prehensile power to climb trees? For bear in mind that it was the loss of this prehensile
power that resulted in the caudal atrophy of our monkey progenitors, who became men simply
because they were tailless monkeys! They had lost their power to climb trees, and accordingly
had no longer any use for tails to let themselves down from the limbs. A "beneficent necessity"
therefore, according to Mr. Emerson, dropped the tail as something decidedly "unfit." For the
simplest tyro in Darwinian philosophy will see that the loss of the Catarrhine monkey's tail,
if it ever occurred, could not have resulted from the "selection of the fittest." The deeper
Emersonian philosophy of the "rejection of the unfit," affords the only solution of the difficulty,
and then only on the assumption that the tail is an unfit appendage for the monkey.

With the loss of his tail, in the light of this new genesis, the monkey necessarily ceased
to be arboreal in his habits. He could no longer subsist on the fruits and nuts of trees, or
take refuge therein from his enemies. He had to go to work and make weapons to defend himself--to
construct tools--make and set traps, live on his wits, and not on his prehensile power to climb
trees. He soon discovered, of course, that the longest pole knocked the persimmon. This was
his first intellectual stride towards the future Edison. From the simplest sort of Grahamitic
philosopher he passed into the robust, beef-eating Englishman. But this was not all. As an
arboreal gymnast, he was manifestly on his way to more masterly feats of agility than ever,--those
dependent, not on muscular function, but on the nervous action of the brain and spinal marrow.
Necessity became with him the "mother of invention," and how admirably he improved under this
maternal instructor we are left to infer from the paramount conclusion of Mr. Darwin, that
the demoralized monkey became the incipient man!

But this conclusively accounts for only one of the many anatomical differences between man
and his caudal progenitor. For why should the loss of his tail have resulted in the changed
chemistry of the monkey's brain? or in the increased involutions of his brain even? The specific
differences between the present and ancestral types are very numerous and demand separate classification.
Their variability runs through every bone, muscle, tissue, fibre, nerve. Their blood corpuscles
are not the same. The chemistry of their bones essentially differs. The nerves are differently
bundled and differently strung. In intonations of voice--symmetry of arms, legs, chest--hairlessness
of body, and aquatic and land habits, the frog is a much nearer approach to man than the monkey,
as all caricaturists, delineating aldermanic proportions, will agree. And Mr. Darwin might
have immortalized himself by deriving the builders of the ancient pile-habitations and other
primitive water-rats and croakers of the Swiss lakes, from this tailless batrachian. For everybody
knows, or thinks he knows, how the frog lost his tail. If he didn't wag it off, he certainly
absorbed its waggishness as a distinguishing characteristic of the "coming man"--the future
Artemas Wards and Mark Twains of the race. This ancestral origin will also account for the
otherwise unaccountable proclivity of all human juveniles to play at the game of leap-frog!
Besides, it would have relieved Mr. Darwin from one of the greatest perplexities he has had
to encounter. As he derives man from a hairy quadruped, the absence of hair on the human body,
is a phenomenal fact that gives him great trouble. He agrees that it does not result from "natural
selection," as he says "the loss of hair is an inconvenience and probably an injury to man."
Nor does he suppose it to result from what he calls "correlated development." He is more puzzled
over this problem of divestiture than any other, and finds the solution of it only in "sexual
selection." That is, he assumes that among our semi-human progenitors, far back in the Tertiary
or some other period, some female monkeys were less hirsute than others, and that they naturally
preferred males possessing similar characteristics. These divergencies were thus commenced,
and, by continuous "sexual selection," the infirmity (for such he regards the loss of hair)
was propagated until the race was almost entirely denuded or bereft of this covering. In the
same way he accounts for nearly all the differentiations of the race, among the various tribes
now or formerly inhabiting the earth. All have sprung from the same semi-human progenitors--apes
that lost their capacity to subsist as apes, and hence found it necessary to subsist as men!

The law of degeneracy has, therefore, had quite as much to do with human origins as that of
progressive development. In fact, it is the paramount law from a Darwinian stand-point. For
the loss of hair and of the prehensile power to climb trees are both conceded by Mr. Darwin
to be serious defects and drawbacks in the ape family.

But the law of sexual selection, as treated by the evolutionists, is not scientifically accurate,
nor is it true in fact. The loving tendency of nature is to opposites, not likes. The positive
and negative poles are those that play into each other with most marvellous effect. Each repels
its like and rushes to the embrace of its opposite. Extremes lovingly meet everywhere. A brunette
selects a blonde and a blonde a brunette, as a general rule in matrimony. A tall man or woman,
with rare exceptions, chooses a short companion for life. Dark eyes delight in those that are
light, and vice-versa. Everywhere nature seeks diversity, not similitude. The gayest and brightest
feathered songster craves companionship in modest and unobtrusive colors. Diversity is the
law of life, as equality, or versimilitude, is that of death. Neither natural selection, nor
sexual selection, runs counter to this law. If Mr. Darwin's theory were true, that likes selected
likes, then the two marked extremes which should have characterized the race, soon after its
emergence from the semi-human state, should have been giants and pigmies, Gargantuas and Lilliputs.
Otherwise "sexual selection," as treated by its author, plays no intelligible part in the economy
of nature, except to counterbalance variability, not to propagate it.

But the Darwinian assumption that the primeval man, or his immediate ape-like progenitor, came
through "natural selection," that is, through the "survival of the fittest," is subject to
one or two other objections which we shall briefly notice. And the first objection is not altogether
a technical one. The term "fittest," as applied to a monkey, has at once a definite and comprehensive
significance to us. It implies the presence of whatever is most perfect of its kind in the
monkey as a monkey, and not in the monkey as something else than a monkey. They are all admirably
adapted for climbing trees; and it is this adaptation that secures them safety, or complete
immunity, in shelter from their enemies. To say that nature selects the fittest for them--for
any species of monkey--by converting their forefeet into rudimentary hands, with a loss of
prehension and no corresponding advantages in locomotion, is to use language without any appreciable
significance to us. We can only say that what is fittest for the monkey is ill-fitted for man,
and the reverse. This is all we can definitely predicate of them, from what we know of their
anatomical structure, and the diversified uses to which it may be put.

The fact is, as the Bible genesis shows, that every living thing is perfect of its kind, and
whatever is perfect admits of no Darwinian variations or improvements for the better. And the
simple statement of this undeniable proposition is, we submit, a complete refutation of Darwinism.
When the waters and the earth were commanded to bring forth abundantly of every living creature
and every living thing, "it was so, and God saw that it was good," that is, everything perfect
of its kind, and in its kind. With this single limitation as to kind, a rattlesnake is no less
perfect than a Plato or a John Howard.

When we consider man's upright position; the firmness and steadiness with which he plants his
foot upon the earth; when we examine the mechanism of his hand, and the wonderful and almost
unlimited range it possesses for diversified use; when we see how ill-fitted he is for climbing
trees, yet how express and admirable for climbing among the stars, even to the outermost milky-way,
the idea that what is fittest for him is fit for the chattering monkey, is too absurd to give
us pause. And yet how does Mr. Darwin know that the monkey has been climbing up, all these
hundred thousand or million years, into man, as one of the congenital freaks of nature, and
not man shambling down into the monkey as a reverse congenital freak. Children have sometimes
been born with a singular resemblance to the ape family, but no ape has ever, to Mr. Darwin's
knowledge, produced issue more manlike than itself. The divergencies run the wrong way to meet
the conditions of the development theory. We have had nearly five thousand years in which to
mark these transitional changes, and yet the monkey of to-day is identical with that painted
on the walls of ancient Meroe. In all this time he has made no advance in the genetic relation;
and if we turn back the lithographic pages of nature for a hundred times five thousand years,
we shall find no essential departure from aboriginal types.

But the Darwinian hypothesis admits of a more conclusive answer than we have yet given. Past
time, it will be conceded, is theoretically if not actually infinite; and in all past time,
nature has been tugging away at Mr. Darwin's problem of the "survival of the fittest." It is
no two hundred and fifty thousand years, nor two hundred and fifty millions, but an infinite
duration of past time that covers the period in which she has been wrestling with this problem.
How successfully has she solved it? In the Darwinian sense of the term "fittest," she has not
so much as stated her first equation or extracted the root of her first power. She is manifestly
as much puzzled over the problem as Mr. Darwin himself. He fails to see that the "survival
of the fittest," necessarily implies, or carries with it, the correlative proposition,--the
"non-survival of the unfit." And when such a law has been operative for an infinite duration
of past time, the "unfit," however infinitely distributed at first, should have disappeared
altogether, many thousands, if not millions, of years ago. If the evolutionists are dealing
with vast problems, and assigning to nature, unlimited factors to express the totality of her
unerring operations, they must be careful to limit the time in which any one of her given labors
is to be accomplished. If she makes any progress at all, an infinite duration of past time
should enable her to complete her work just as effectually as an infinite duration of time to come.

But by what law of "natural selection," appertaining to a single pair of old world monkeys,
have their offspring advanced to this regal state of manhood, while all other pairs have remained
stationary, or precisely where they were two hundred and fifty thousand years ago or more?
Why this exceptional divergence in the case of a single pair of monkeys? Why this anomalous,
aberrant, and thoroughly eccentric movement on the part of nature? We had supposed that her
operations were uniform--conformable to fixed laws of movement. The doctrine of the "survival
of the fittest" implies this. Why then, should nature, in her unerring operations, have selected
the fittest in respect to a single pair of Catarrhine monkeys, and at the same time rejected
the fittest in the case of a million other pairs? If she had selected only the fittest in respect
to this old world stock of monkeys, the entire Catarrhine family should have disappeared in
the next higher or fitter group--a group nowhere to be found in geological distribution. The
break between man and this Catarrhine monkey covers quite a series of links in the genetic
vinculum;[37] and yet between the two we find no high form of a low type fitting into a low
form of a high type, as we manifestly should, to account for all the diversified changes that
must have taken place in the interim. And what is true of the types is measurably true of the
classes within the types, as well as of the orders within the classes. Wide deviations in forms,
as in characteristics, would seem to be the invariable rule; the blending of type into type,
except perhaps in remote relationships, is nowhere visible.

But if "variation" and "natural selection" have played important parts in the economy of nature,
why may not "specific creation" have played its part also? Positive science can hardly flatter
itself with the belief that it is rolling back the mystery of the universe to a point beyond
which "specific creation" might not have commenced, or the divine fiat been put forth. To believe
in the possibility of a rational synthesis, limited to sensible experience, or phenomenal facts
within our reach, that shall climb from law to law, or from concrete fact to abstract conception,
until it shall reach the Ultima Thule of all law, is to carry the faith of the scientist beyond
the most transcendental belief of the theologian, and make him a greater dupe to his illusions
than was ever cloistered in a monastery or affected austerity therein as a balm to the flesh.
We may substitute new dogmatisms for old ones, but we can never postulate a principle that
shall make the general laws of nature any less mysterious than the partial or exceptional,
or that shall in the long run, render "natural selection" any more comprehensible, or acceptable
to the rational intuition, than "specific creation." For while one class of scientists is climbing
the ladder of synthesis, by assigning a reason for a higher law that may be predicated of a
lower, we shall find the broader and more analytical mind accepting the higher mystery for
the lower, and, by divesting its faith of all metaphysical incumbrance, landing in the belief
of an all-encompassing law, which shall comprehend the entire assemblage of known laws and
facts in the universe. And the natural drift of the human mind is ever towards this abstract
conception--this one all-encompassing law of the universe. It steadily speculates in this direction,
and some of the highest triumphs of our age, in physical as well as metaphysical science, are
measurably due to this tendency. The scientific mind is not confined wholly to experimental
research. It is stimulated to higher contemplations, and is constantly disposed to make larger
and more comprehensive groupings of analogous facts. It is fast coming to regard light, heat,
electricity, magnetism, gravitation, chemical affinity, molecular force, and even Mr. Darwin's
little whirligig, as only so many manifestations or expressions of one and the same force in
the universe--that ultimate, all-encompassing, divine force (not to speak unscientifically)
that upholds the order of the heavens, "binds the sweet influences of the Pleiades, brings
forth Mazzaroth in his season, and guides Arcturus with his suns." Of the correctness of this
hypothesis it is unnecessary to speak. It is to the Darwinian speculation what the infinite
is to the infinitessimal, and we only refer to it to bring out the vastness of the conception
as compared to the latter theory, and to predicate thereon the more conclusive induction that
an Infinite Intelligence directs and superintends all.

In an area in the Milky-way not exceeding one-tenth of the moon's disc, Mr. Herschel computes
the number of stars at not less than twenty thousand, with clusters of nebulae lying still
beyond. As we know that no bodies shining by reflected light could be visible at such enormous
distances, we are left to conclude that each of these twinkling points is a sun, dispensing
light and heat to probably as many planets as hold their courses about the central orb in our
own system. From the superior magnitude of many of the stars, as compared with the sun, we
may reasonably infer that many of these vast sun-systems occupy a much larger field in space
than our own. This would give an area in space of not less than six thousand millions of miles
as the field occupied by each of these sun-systems. And as the distance between each of these
systems and its nearest neighbor is probably not less than that of our sun from the nearest
star, we have the enormous and inconceivable distance of not less than nineteen billions of
miles separating each one of these twenty thousand stars or sun-systems, occupying a space
in the heavens apparently no bigger than a man's hand. And yet Infinity, as we apprehend the
term, lies beyond this vast cluster of constellated worlds! Where is Mr. Darwin's little whirligig
in the comparison, or Mr. Emerson's vegetal stomach, or Mr. Herbert Spencer's "potential factors,"
to express the sum-total of all this totality,--this gigantic assemblage of stars clustered
about a single point in the Milky-way? The human mind absolutely reels--staggers bewildered
and amazed--under the load of conceptions imposed by these few twinkling stars, and is ready
to exclaim,--

  "Oh, star-eyed Science, hast thou wandered there,
  To waft us back a message of despair?"

But when we reflect that all this vast aggregation of sun systems, visible in the telescopic
field, is not stationary, but is revolving with inconceivable rapidity about some unknown and
infinitely remote centre of the universe, how immeasurably vast does the conception become,
and how unutterably puerile and fatuous the thought of Mr. Darwin's little whirligig as the
author of it all! No wonder the inspired Psalmist exclaims; "The heavens declare the glory
of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork." But listen to the Darwinian exclamation:
"The heavens declare the glory of my little whirligig, and the firmament showeth the immensity
of my little ovules." With the veil of faith and inspiration lifted, the words of the Psalmist
swell into the highest cherubic anthem, while those of Mr. Darwin hardly rise above the squeak
of a mole burrowing beneath the glebe!

And what presumptuous mortal shall say that this infinitely remote centre of the universe,
around which revolves this infinite number of sun-systems, is not the seat and throne of the
Infinite One himself--the Sovereign Intelligence and Power of the universe, directing and upholding
all? We know that some of the stars are travelling about this central point of the heavens
at a pace exceeding 194,000 miles an hour, or with nearly three times the rapidity of our earth
in its orbit. That there must be infinite power, not physical, at this unknown centre of the
universe, to hold these myriads of sun-systems in their courses, is a logical induction as
irrefragable as that the sun holds his planets in their orbits. And if infinite power is predicable
upon this central point, why not infinite intelligence also? Intelligence, we know, controls
and utilizes all power in this world; why not all power in the universe? It can utilize every
drop of water that thunders down Niagara to-day, as it has already seized upon the lightnings
of heaven to make them our post-boy. This is what finite intelligence--that insignificant factor
that science would eliminate from the universe--can do; then what may not Infinite Intelligence
accomplish?

But the Darwinian systematizers object that science must limit itself to a coordination of
the known relations of things in the universe, or deal only with phenomenal facts, not dogmatisms;
forgetting that they dogmatize quite as extensively, in constructing their chain of generation,
as the theologians do in adhering to the Bible genesis. No theologian objects to a rational
synthesis of phenomena, limited to sensible experience; but, in climbing from law to law, he
reasonably enough insists, that, when concrete facts rise into abstract conceptions, the highest
round in the ladder shall not be knocked out for the accommodation of Robert G. Ingersoll or
any other boasted descendant of a gorilla. And he also insists that when a priori speculation
is lost in abstract conceptions, the highest must necessarily press alone upon the intuitions
of consciousness, where all generalizations cease, and all synthesis is undeniably at an end.
Here, in this mysterious chamber of the soul, we stand silent and alone, with only dim and
shadowy phantoms about us, as if in the august presence of Deity itself.

But how does scientific speculation propose to stifle these intuitions of consciousness--reduce
them to the least of all potential factors in the universe? We will take the very latest of
these speculations. In supplementing both the Darwinian theory and the grander speculation
of Laplace, the scientists, so called, tell us that the process of aggregation, or the turning
out of new worlds in the universe, is still going on; but that the time is coming when all
the primeval potency or energy, originally inhering in diffused matter, will have exhausted
itself in actual energy, and that then all light, life and motion in the universe, will cease
and be at an end. This dissipation of potential energy is to result, they say, in a played-out
universe, as it has already resulted, they claim, in a played-out moon, if not countless other
heavenly bodies.[38] All the exterior planets, or a majority of them at least, are to be placed
in this category of dismantled worlds, or those in which all life has hopelessly ceased and
become extinct. All has utterly disappeared, or, to paraphrase one of Pope's couplets,

  "Beast, bird, fish, insect--what no eye can scan,
  Nor glass can reach--from zoophyte to man."

All these dismantled planets, and satellites to planets, are only so many immense cinders--mere
refuse slag--of no conceivable interest to science, except to predicate the ultimate conclusion--"a
played-out universe, resulting from a played-out potency within the universe." The magnificent
clockwork of the heavens will then have run down, with no Darwinian whirligig to wind it up
again, and the terrible reality of Byron's dream, which it would seem was not all a dream,
be realized in the bright sun extinguished, the stars darkling the eternal space, rayless and
pathless, and the icy earth swung blind and blackening in the moonless air.

Oh, if this be star-eyed science, give us anything in place of it! Blear-eyed bigotry in his
cloistered den, mumbling unintelligible prayers, and believing that man is to be saved, not
by what he does, but by a credo only, is far preferable to it. But oh, how unspeakably preferable
the simple faith of the star-led Magi, who

  "Deeming the light that in the east was seen
       An earnest and a prophecy of rest
     To weary wanderers, such as they had been,"

came on that bleak December night, 1880 years ago, to pay their homage to the Christ-child--the
long expected Messiah--the Redeemer of the world!

Footnotes

[1]: It may be proper, however, to state that the tenth and concluding
     chapter was originally written as a lecture, and delivered about a
     year ago in New Haven, Boston, and at other points. A request for its
     publication has induced the author to place it in this volume, with
     the portion referring to the Bible genesis omitted. It will be found
     germane to the general subject.

[2]: "Without this latent presence of the 'I am,' all modes of existence
     in the external world flit before us as colored shadows, with no
     greater depth, root, or fixure, than the image of a rock hath in the
     gliding stream, or the rainbow on the fast-sailing rain
     storm."--Coleridge's "Comments on Essays."

[3]: And science that is not purely inductive--i.e. primarily based on
     the inviolability of our intuitions--is no science at all, but the
     sheerest possible speculation.

[4]: This presence of an active living principle in nature, one originally
     assigned as the "divina particula aurA|" of every living thing, is
     frequently referred to in the higher inspirational moods of our
     poets. Wordsworth exquisitely refers to it in the following lines of
     his "Excursion:"--

       "To every form of being is assigned
       An active principle: howe'er removed
       From sense and observation, it subsists
       In all things, in all nature, in the stars
       Of azure heaven, the unenduring clouds;
       In flower and tree, in every pebbly stone
       That paves the brooks."

[5]: The existence of vital units is conceded by some of the staunchest
     materialists, such as Herbert Spencer, Professor Bastian and others. He insists, however, that they have
     been "evolved" from something, or by some unknown process. But we
     shall show further on that a "unit" can neither be evolved nor
     involved, and that this is as true of vital units as of the
     mathematical or chemical unit. Neither evolution nor involution will
     ever effect the value of a unit.

[6]: According to Aristotle, the great world-ordainer is the constant
     world-sustainer.

[7]: The definition which Professor Robinson, in his Lexicon of the New
     Testament, gives of the word IfIEuroI-II1/4I+-, as connected with the "divine
     life," entirely harmonizes with this view of the subject. He says: Trop.
     I John 3, 9, IEuroa1/4fI, a1/2 I cubedI muI cubedI muI1/2I.I1/4I-I1/2I?I, a1/4I I"I?I... I'I muI?I... IfIEuroI-II1/4I+- a1/4EuroI...I"I?I1/2 (I'I mua1/2"I1/2) I muI1/2 a3/4I1/2I"a?
     IEuroI muI1/2I mua1/2 i.e. the germ or principle of divine life through which he
     is begotten of god, I"I? IEuroI1/2I mua1/2'I1/4I+-.

[8]: Professor Schmidt, of the University of Strasburg, who insists that
     species are only relatively stable, admits that they remain
     persistent as long as they exist under the same external conditions.
     Time is, therefore, not a factor in the mutation of species. Nor are
     environing conditions factors, except as a failure of conditions
     results in the disappearance of species, as the presence of
     conditions results in their appearance.

[9]: Says M. Ch. Bonnet, in his "La PalingA(C)uA(C)sie Philosophique;" "Il est
     de la plus parfaite A(C)vidence que la matiere est susceptible d'une
     infinitA(C) de mouvemens divers, et de modifications diverses," and this
     is the universal claim of the materialists.

[10]: Professor Burdach (as trad, par Jourdan), in speaking of the
      productive power of nature, says, "LimitA(C)e quant Ai l' A(C)tendue de ses
      manifestations, elle continue toujottrs d' agir pour la conservation
      de ce qui a A(C)tA(C) crA(C)A(C), et, quoiqu' elle ne maintenue les formes
      organiques supA(C)rieures que par la seule propagation, il ne rA(C)pugne
      point au bon sens de penser qu' aujourd' hui encore elle a la
      puissance de produire les formes infA(C)rieures avec des elA(C)ments
      hA(C)tA(C)rogA(C)nes, comme elle a crA(C)A(C) originairement tout ce qui possA(C)de l'
      organisation." This shows that its author believed in the
      possibility of the "superior organic forms," like the mastodon,
      megatherium, etc. from the "heterogenetic elements"--those
      undergoing every conceivable change--as well as the "inferior
      forms." At all events, it is a legitimate induction from
      materialistic premises.

[11]: This point is conclusively made by Professor Burdach, who says (we
      quote from Jourdan); "La tendance interieure Ai la configuration
      existe avant sa manifestation." And by his tendance interieure he
      must mean some vital or other law, equivalent to an entia in
      matter, which results in, not from manifestation.

[12]: Goethe borrowed his idea of an archetypal world from Plato and the
      Eleatic school. They held that the world was originated, and not
      eternal; that it was framed by the Creator after a perfect
      archetype, one eternally existing in the divine mind, if not an
      actual soul-world of which our own is but the reflex.

[13]: In a note to Prof. Bastian's "Beginnings of Life" (vol II. p. 537)
      an important fact is mentioned as obtained from the writings of Dr.
      Schneider, to wit, that Nematoids (microscopical forms) may be
      "obtained at will," almost as readily as mushrooms, by a process
      entirely independent of spores. For instance, small pieces of beef
      were carefully examined to see if they contained any of the ova of
      Nematoids, and, finding none, they were buried in a small quantity
      of earth (also carefully examined for the presence of Nematoids or
      their ova) in a gallipot. "After three weeks," says Prof. B. "this
      earth was found to be absolutely swarming with two kinds of
      Nematoids--quite different from any forms which I had previously,
      seen, although I had been seeking them for more than two years
      previously in all sorts of situations." The reason why he had not
      found them previously, was because the "necessary conditions" for
      their appearance had not been obtained by him, or he had not sought
      for them in their proper environment. They were not produced "at
      will," but were the natural outgrowth of conditions, as much so as
      the spores of fungi, which make their appearance whenever and
      wherever the necessary environing conditions exist. According to Dr.
      Gros, it takes about three weeks for these Nematoid forms to develop
      into a reproductive state.

[14]: The necessity of turning plants and animals into "tramps" is just as
      great in the case of "Evolution" as in that of "specific creation in
      pairs." In both cases, we must insist upon geneological
      consanguinity. For the chances of any two highly specialized forms,
      originally starting on different lines of divergence, and ultimately
      reaching individual identity, both in form and characteristics, is
      an impossible problem in the determination of chances. Consequently,
      Mr. Darwin finds the necessity of accounting for the presence of
      northern forms in the southern hemisphere, and the reverse, just as
      great as in the LinnA|an theory, which was fully accepted by Cuvier.

[15]: Burdach, in his "TraitA(C) Physiologie" (Trad. par Jourdan. 1837)
      says: "Effectivement nous rencontrons des traces de vie dans toute
      existence quelconque." This is as broad a panspermic statement as
      can be made, and is only true of inorganic matter so far as
      vegetable life is concerned, including such infusorial, mycologic,
      and cryptogamic forms as may lie so near to the "force vegetative"
      of Needham as to be indistinguishable from it.

[16]: In the case of volcanic islands, the upheavals were undoubtedly
      accompanied by deposits of mud, sand (ocean detritus), marine
      vegetation, and more or less animal matter, and these organic
      substances were washed down by the rains into the broken valleys and
      plains below, when land vegetation almost immediately made its
      appearance; not because seeds may have drifted thither by any of the
      different agencies that have been mentioned, but because organic
      matter can no more help bringing forth life in some form, when
      conditions favor, than salt water, when exposed to evaporation, can
      help crystallizing into its symmetrically-arranged salts. And the
      same would be true of all the coral islands, bringing up the organic
      matter of the sea to the influence of the light, the rains, and the
      dews. The islands thus formed in the Pacific Ocean begin to exhibit
      vegetable life almost as soon as they make their appearance above
      the reefs, and a line of sea-beach is formed about them.

[17]: These, while presenting the most varied and diverse forms of
      infusorial life, are nevertheless the most constant and abundant
      type. They abound more or less in all organic infusions. Ehrenberg,
      however, holds that they are no more animal than vegetal forms. They
      vary in length from 1/15000 to 1/2000 of an inch, and are
      consequently too minute to be satisfactorily classified in respect
      to all their diversified characteristics.

[18]: The extent of the southern ice-cap may at least be approximately
      reached from explorations already made. Capt. Weddell, in 1823,
      extended his explorations southward to within about 15A deg. of the
      south pole, where he found an open sea. Capt. Ross, in 1842,
      approached to within about 13A deg. of the same pole, without serious
      obstruction. It is true that, in the following year, he encountered
      ice barriers near the line of the antarctic circle, but they were
      floating barriers coming down from Weddell's open sea. Capt.
      Wilkes, in 1840, explored a considerable portion of the Antarctic
      Continent, lying almost entirely within the antarctic circle. Other
      explorations have been made, showing that the southern ice-cap does
      not probably extend, continuously at least, much farther north than
      78A deg. or 80A deg., or to within some ten or twelve degrees of the south
      pole, independently of the packs of drifting ice in the otherwise
      open seas.

[19]: The truth or falsity of "Evolution" depends entirely on the
      successful solution of this problem, for the chances are
      quintillions to ones that no two identical forms could have
      originated from different centres, or from the same centre on
      divergent lines, and ever reached identically the same results. And
      how any two forms should happen to be sexually paired, on the same
      or different lines of divergence, is one of those inexplicable
      mysteries which must puzzle Herbert Spencer in all his labyrinthian
      searches into "Force-correlation," "Differentiation," "the Dynamic
      Force of Molecules," etc., etc. However successful he may be in
      other directions, he will inevitably fail in this. We must fall back
      on the grand Old Bible genesis for the solution of this difficulty,
      where every living thing was commanded to produce seed, or multiply
      and replenish the waters and the earth with offspring.

[20]: These transcendental or ideal forms may be said to correspond to the
      "spiritual essences" of Plato. They are the eternal, immutable
      principles which are discernible to the eye of the soul, as the
      sensible objects they represent are discernible to the eye of the
      body. Modern metaphysics may deem them mere abstractions, but a
      higher realistic philosophy will treat them as substantive forms, of
      which the objective reality is but the shadow.

[21]: Herbert Spencer may be quoted as authority on this point. He says:
      "There is invariably, and necessarily, a conformity between the
      vital functions of any organism, and the conditions in which it is
      placed ... We find that every animal is limited to a certain range
      of climate; every plant to certain zones of latitude and elevation."
      And the same law holds good as to the marine fauna and flora, each
      specific form being confined to its own sea-depth, or distance north
      or south from the thermal equator.

[22]: Speaking of the ultimate principles or elements of matter, Plato is
      quoted by Humboldt as exclaiming with modest diffidence, "God alone,
      and those whom he loves among men, know what they are." It is only
      those who seek to eliminate God from the universe that speak with
      confident flippancy on the subject of molecular machinery and
      force-correlations.

[23]: As long as the evolutionists cannot agree among themselves as to
      what constitutes the process of evolution, it can hardly be expected
      that the public will accept their speculations as conclusive
      inductions. Professor Bastian, who strongly commits himself to the
      doctrine, thinks the word "evolution" arbitrary and open to many
      objections, while Mr. Herbert Spencer says;--"The antithetical word
      Involution would much more truly express the nature of the process."

[25]: Dr. Drysdale, in his work on the "Protoplasmic Theory of Life,"
      says: "Matter cannot change its state of motion or rest without the
      influence of some force from without. True spontaneity of movement
      is, therefore, just as impossible to it as to what we call dead
      matter.... So we are compelled to admit the existence of an exciting
      cause in the form of some force from without to give the initial
      impulse in all vital actions." In all life-manifestations, this
      "force from without," must be a pre-existing vital principle
      operating to effect the otherwise impossible change in matter.

[26]: A favorite set-phrase of Professor Bastian in speaking of
      morphological cells or "units," as he sometimes calls them.

[27]: That great and justly celebrated naturalist, Buffon, in speaking of
      the universal origination of the lower forms of animal life by a
      process termed, in his time, "spontaneous generation," says: "There
      are, perhaps, as many living things, both animal and vegetable,
      which are produced by the fortuitous aggregations of 'molA(C)cules
      organiques,' as there are others which reproduce themselves by a
      constant succession of generations." It is said that Buffon was for
      some time associated with the AbbA(C) Needham in his experiments in
      vital directions, and was much influenced by them. So that it is by
      no means certain that he did not accept the AbbA(C)'s "force
      vA(C)gA(C)tative" in place of his more materialistic views respecting
      "molA(C)cules organiques." At all events, his statement that as many
      living things appear in nature independently of reproducing causes
      as by successive generation, is no doubt true.

[28]: M. TrA(C)viranus, who followed Spallanzani and M. Bonnet in these flask
      experimentations, first noticed the important fact that the
      animalculA| appearing in different organic infusions, depended on
      the nature and quality of the infusions themselves, and that the
      changed conditions of the same infusion produced new and independent
      forms of life.

[29]: Leibnitz, as quoted by M. Bonnet, says:--"Que l'Entendement Divin
      A(C)toit la religion A(C)ternelle des Essences; parce que tout ce qui
      existe existoit comme de toute A(C)ternitA(C) comme possible ou en idA(C)e
      dans l'entendement de Dieu. J'exprimerai cette vA(C)ritA(C) sublime en
      d'autres termes: le plan entier d'univers existoit de toute EternitA(C)
      dans l'entendement du SuprAme Architecte. Tou tes les parties de
      l'univers et jusqu' an moindre atome A(C)toient deffinA(C)s dans ce plan.
      Tous les changemens qui devoient survenir aux diffA(C)rentes pieces de
      ce Tout immense y avoient aussi leurs reprA(C)sentations. Chaque etre y
      A(C)toit figurA(C) par ses characteres propres: et l'acte par lequel la
      Souveraine Puissance a rA(C)alisA(C) ce plan, est ce que nous nommons la
      CrA(C)ation."

[30]: Here is a fact given us by Dr. F. Hall, of Wallingford, Conn.: In a
      peat meadow in that town, owned by him, which was at no time subject
      to overflow, a large quantity of peat had been removed at different
      intervals of time, when the excavations naturally filled with water.
      In these excavations there appeared not only the Cyprinidae in
      considerable numbers, but fresh water clams which grew to be as
      large as those in the most favored streams. They made their
      appearance the very first season after the peat was removed, and
      have flourished there ever since. In no other portions of the meadow
      were there any fish or clams ever noticed before, nor was there any
      other source of water-supply than the rain-falls in that locality.

[31]: Professor Beale, in one of his very latest works says: "Of the
      chemical and physical forms of energy something is known, but of
      the relationship of the so called vital energy, nothing has
      been proved. We only know that the influence it exerts is
      altogether different from that which has been traced to physical
      and chemical energy."

[32]: It is admitted, even in the case of Bacteria, whose movements are
      the most uniform, that they are sometimes so inert and languid as to
      show no movements at all; while, at other times, they exhibit mere
      Brownian movements or those no more nearly allied to "life" than the
      minute particles of carbon escaping from the flame of a kerosene
      lamp. And among the most distinguished microscopists, it is a
      question whether these infusorial forms, those exhibiting the most
      active oscillations, are really vegetal or animal in origin; in
      other words, whether they are Fungus-spores or Torula-cells, or
      whether they may not be some intermediate forms.

[33]: The difficulty of assigning any definitional value to a "primordial
      germ" is due to the vagueness of idea attached to it in the popular
      mind, as well as to the diversified theories and speculations of the
      scientists concerning the origin of life. We can only define it as a
      "vital unit," as the chemist defines his smallest conceivable
      quantity--his "primary least"--of an element, as a "chemical unit."

[34]: Let two comrades be shot at the same instant in battle, the one
      through the heart, and the other through the arm, shattering it
      badly. What is there to prevent the surgeon from taking a piece of
      bone out of the arm of the man shot through the heart and instantly
      killed, and using it to make good the arm of the man still living?
      Apparently nothing but that the dead man's bone will not knit. He
      may not have been dead five minutes, and Professor Beale's bioplasts
      might still be at work spinning matter and weaving tissue for the
      integrity of the displaced bone. Why will it not knit? Simply
      because the vital principle that differentiates matter is gone--can
      no longer act. If the integrity of the bone depended on the action
      of the molecules, and not on the vital principle, there is no reason
      why this experiment should not be a success. For the molecules are
      all there, and their action will not be disturbed for hours after
      the death of the man shot through the heart.

[35]: It is safe to adhere to the Leibnitzian axiom, Natura non agit
      saltatim.

[36]: One of the most cultured classes of Christian believers in our day,
      holds that "all life is from the Lord;" that "He is the fountain,
      and we only the streams thence." And this, they claim, is true of
      all life. To "take away our breath," therefore, is to cut off this
      stream perpetually flowing from its invisible source--the fountain
      of all Life. When scientific methods substitute for a first cause a
      mere resultant effect, all primary principles disappear in their
      intermediates.

[37]: Professor Marsh, of Yale College, has predicted that the "missing
      link" will be found in Borneo--evidently not crediting Mr. Stanley's
      statement about its presence in the interior of Africa. But one
      "missing link" is hardly enough; there ought to be an extensive
      family of them to complete Mr. Darwin's plexus. From the lowest
      genetic form to the anthropoid ape is a distance which does not half
      cover the length of this plexus--the immense gap between the monkey
      and the man being decidedly the greater length of chain. And yet the
      first half of the chain is traversed by innumerable forms--millions
      of links, so to speak. How, then, is the greater length of the
      plexus to be covered by a single "missing link?" A long line of
      caudal ancestry must be dug up, therefore, in Borneo, and shipped to
      the Peabody Museum, before this tremendous stretch in the chain of
      animated nature is satisfactorily accounted for. Borneo must be
      exceedingly rich in osteologic remains, even to bridge the chasm
      between its own ourang-outangs and the Dyaks, or aboriginal
      inhabitants, of that island.

[38]: This daring hypothesis of the materialists is so utterly repugnant
      to all our ideas of a perfected Cosmos, that we have no patience
      with those advancing it. It is, at best, speculation run mad, and is
      based on no other assumption than that of the inherent
      imperfectibility of the universe as it came from the hand of God, or
      from the dynamic play of molecules extending throughout vast
      geognostic epochs.

      From a materialistic stand-point this assumption of imperfectibility
      inevitably runs into the reductio ad absurdum. For if, in the play
      of the material forces of the universe, an infinite duration of past
      time has effected nothing but mutually disturbing and re-adjusting
      movements and relations among cosmical bodies, then an infinite
      duration of time to come can effect nothing but similarly mutual
      adjustments and re-adjustments in respect to such bodies. With an
      infinity of time, space, matter and motion, everywhere presenting a
      unity of phenomena in the universe, "there can never be anything,"
      according to the great Stagirite, "unconnected or out of place, as
      in a bad tragedy." Conservation must, therefore, be the rule, and
      desinence the impossible exception.

      But these adherents of inherent imperfectibility instance the fact
      of vanished and variable stars, as well as those that have suddenly
      appeared, and, after brief periods of intense brilliancy, as
      suddenly disappeared, to show that there are mighty disturbances in
      the sidereal heavens which entirely negative the idea of
      "conservation" as a geognostic law. But the phenomena of variable
      stars, with all their apparent irregularity of motion and
      fluctuations in luminosity, are now being traced to definite and
      well-determined laws of motion, if not of light, while the theory of
      extinguished and disappearing stars belongs exclusive to the age of
      Tycho Brahe. Where there is one self-luminious body (or sun) in the
      interstellary spaces, there are probably not less than forty
      non-luminous or dark cosmical bodies revolving about their
      respective centres of light and heat, as the attending planets
      revolve about the common centre of gravity in our own system. And
      this is especially true of that vast and fathomless star-stratum,
      called the Milky-way, in which most of these peculiar phenomena
      occur, with the exception of the variable stars only.

      That stars should vary in their intensity of light by the probable
      transits of these dark cosmical bodies across their discs, is no
      matter of wonder or astonishment: on the contrary, it is surprising
      that these sidereal phenomena do not occur with much greater
      frequency. This would inevitably be the case if the planes of
      revolution, in the case of these non-luminous bodies about their
      central orbs, were coincident with the lines of vision from our own
      planet--a circumstance by no means improbable from the vastness of
      the sidereal heavens and the innumerable hosts of stars marching
      therein. Besides, these periodical variations may be accounted for
      in part--especially in the case of double stars--from their apparent
      rather than real change of place in the heavens. For if our
      sun-system is travelling towards a point in the constellation
      Hercules at the rate of 194 thousand miles an hour (the rapidity of
      Arcturus' flight), it is impossible to determine, in the present
      state of astronomical knowledge, whether the apparent change of
      place in any star is real or merely optical. But, in the case of
      double stars, each is travelling (independently of its other
      motions) about the common centre of gravity obtaining in its own
      system, and these relative movements may account for the greater or
      less intensity of light as the two stars, viewed as one, present a
      greater or less area of luminosity in their united surfaces.

      The assumed revolution of one of these stars about the other--thus
      destroying all the known analogies of the universe, as exemplified
      in our own system--may be accounted for in the same way. With
      stupendous planetary systems revolving about each of these
      apparently double stars, they must respectively have a revolution,
      real as well as apparent, about their own centres of gravity--not
      one and the same centre, but different and far distant centres.
      Lying in nearly the same line of vision, with planes of movement at
      right angles with it, they would necessarily present the appearance
      of one star revolving about the other--an apparent motion only.

      And the writer here ventures an explanation of the phenomena of
      temporary stars, or those making their appearance in the heavens,
      flaming up into stars of the first, second and third magnitudes, and
      then disappearing altogether. The most remarkable of these stars, or
      apparent stars, was that of Tycho Brahe in 1572, presenting its
      maximum brilliancy at the very first, but gradually diminishing in
      size until the end of seventeen months, when it disappeared, without
      change of place, from the heavens. This temporary star was visible
      in Cassiopeia, on the verge of the Milky-way, within whose swarm of
      stellar worlds most of these apparent stars have made their
      appearance. Tycho Brahe, in seeking to account for this stellar
      phenomenon, advanced the theory that stars might be "formed and
      molded out of cosmical vapor," or "vapory celestial matter," as the
      elder Herschel put it, "which becomes luminous as it condenses
      (conglomerates) into fixed stars." But any such rapid condensation
      of "vapory matter," in the light of Laplace's "nebular theory," is
      manifestly too absurd for scientific recognition. A more
      satisfactory explanation may be here suggested:--Supposing the
      apparent relative position of any six or seven stars of the sixth
      magnitude in the Milky-way, should be so changed by the combined
      motions of our sun-system and of the stars themselves, as to throw
      them into one and the same line of vision, but so clustered together
      as to show their several star-discs as one, we should unquestionably
      have a star of the first magnitude, which would continue as long as
      this extraordinary stellar conjunction should last. As one after
      another of these stars should fall out of line, by reason of the
      combined motions named, the apparent star would be diminished from
      the first to the second magnitude, and so on until it reached the
      sixth magnitude, when it would pass beyond the reach of unaided
      human vision. But as the star of Tycho Brahe suddenly appeared at
      its fullest brilliancy, it may be objected that this suggested
      theory fails to meet the required conditions.

      As 18,000,000, out of the 20,000,000, of telescopic stars lie in the
      Milky-way, it is not by any means improbable that such a conjunction
      of stars may occur therein as often at least as once or twice in a
      century. We certainly see brilliant patches of closely-crowded
      stars, in great numbers, in this galactic zone, and the fact that
      these temporary stars almost uniformly appear in that zone renders
      the suggestion here made quite as rational, in the way of
      speculation at least, as that of "vapory celestial matter" suddenly
      condensed into a star of the first magnitude, as Sir. William
      Herschel would have us believe was possible, if not probable.

      Besides, it is a definitely ascertained fact that such clusters of
      stars, lying in almost the same line of vision, exist in various
      parts of the heavens, which present to the naked eye the appearance
      of a star of the fourth or fifth magnitude, and probably would, if
      more thickly clustered, present that of a star of the first
      magnitude. But powerful telescopes resolve them into a large number
      of stars, from the thirteenth to the fifteenth magnitude. One such
      cluster in Andromeda's girdle has been resolved into not less than
      fifteen hundred small stars of very low magnitude, and pretty widely
      scattered in the telescopic field. Alexander Von Humboldt, in
      speaking of stars that have thus disappeared, says that "their
      disappearance may be the result of their motion as much as of any
      diminution of their photometric processes (whether on their surfaces
      or in their photospheres), as would render the waves of light too
      weak too excite the organs of sight." And he adds: "What we no
      longer see is not necessarily annihilation," repeating at the same
      time the question of Pliny--"StellA| an obirent nascerenturve?"

      But another, and (to our mind) more satisfactory, explanation of
      these stellar phenomena, may be hazarded in this connection: There
      are, for instance, in the Milky-way, among the more brilliant
      clusters of stars, dark granular spots, of greater or less
      magnitude, in which the most powerful telescopes show no glints or
      traces of stars. They are among Humboldt's smaller "fissures or
      chasms in the heavens," in which he asserts that there is a great
      paucity of stars, or none at all. Now, if one of these thick stellar
      clusters, which show to the naked eye as a single star, should, by
      the combined cosmical movements of our sun-system and the stellar
      group in question, pass into the field of one of these small rents
      or "fissures" in the galactic curtain--that lying in front of the
      stellar cluster--it would immediately show as a star of possibly the
      first magnitude, and would continue to shine as a star of that
      magnitude so long as it remained in the field of the narrow rent or
      fissure. It would shine out suddenly like a star through a rift in
      the clouds of a dark night, and disappear as soon as it had
      traversed, or apparently traversed, the rift in question. This
      galactic curtain, it should be borne in mind, is made up of
      18,000,000 of stars, or sun-systems, and not less than 720,000,000
      dark cosmical bodies revolving about their respective centres of
      gravity. If the "nebular theory" of the universe be true, this is
      unquestionably the exact condition of things in the Milky-way. Of
      the more distant stars in this crowded galaxy, we can only catch,
      even in the telescopic field, mere glints of light as the
      intervening swarms of stellar and planetary worlds thicken in the
      foreground and shut out the more distant view. It is only through
      these rents and fissures in this great galactic curtain that the
      brighter stellar clusters beyond can ever be seen; and these glints
      of far distant light, showing dimly through this curtain, may
      account for the peculiar milky appearance of the galaxy, arising
      from the loss of chromatic power in the full beams themselves. It
      was undoubtedly through one of these rents in the galactic curtain
      that the condensed starry cluster of Tycho Brahe suddenly made its
      appearance in the outer fringes of the Milky-way, and remained
      visible for a period of seventeen months.