(b) At least 3 feet from the exhaust pipe of engine.

(c) Far enough away from the wall to prevent dirt or loose mortar from dropping on the cells.

Figs. 298 and 299 illustrate two types of battery racks recommended for use with farm light
batteries. The stair-step rack is most desirable where there is sufficient room for its installation.
Where the space is insufficient to make this installation, use the two-tier shelf rack. The
racks should be made from 1-1/2 or 2 inch boards.

  [Fig. 298 "Stair-Step" rack for farm lighting battery]

The cells may be placed on the battery rack with either the face or the edges of the plates
facing out. The latter method requires a shorter battery rack and is very desirable from the
standpoint of future inspections. In very dark places, it is more desirable to have the surface
of the plates turned out to enable the user to see when the cells are bubbling during the monthly
equalizing charge. Either method is satisfactory.

All metal parts such as pipes, bolt heads, etc., which are near the battery should be given
at least three coats of asphaltum paint. Care must be taken not to have an open flame of any
kind in the battery room, as the hydrogen and oxygen gases, given off as a battery charges
may explode and cause injury to the person and possible severe damage to the battery. When
making an installation, it is always a good plan to carry the following material for taking
care of spillage and broken jars:

1. 1 Thermometer 2. 2 Series Cells 3. 6 Battery Bolts and Nuts 4. 1 Hydrometer Syringe 5. 2
Gallons distilled water 6. 1 Jar Vaseline 7. 1 Gallon 1.220 specific gravity electrolyte

  [Fig. 299 Installation of a Delco-Light plant, showing two-tier
   shelf rack for battery]

When a battery arrives at the shipping destination, the person lifting this shipment should
remove the slats from the top of each crate and inspect each cell for concealed damage, such
as breakage: Should any damage be discovered, it is important that a notation covering this
damage be made and signed by the freight agent on the freight bill. This will enable the customer
or dealer to make a claim against the railroad for the amount of damage. If a notation of this
kind is not made before the battery is lifted, the dealer will be forced to stand the expense
of repairing or replacing the damaged cells.

When removing cells from a crate, avoid lifting them by the terminal posts as much as possible.
This causes the weight of the electrolyte and jar to pull on the sealing compound between the
jar and cover, and if the sealing is not absolutely tight, the jar and electrolyte may fall
from the cover. A cell should never be carried using the terminal posts as handles. The hand
should be put underneath the jar.

Sometimes a battery will arrive with electrolyte spilled from some of the cells. If spillage
is only about one-half to one inch down on the plates of three or four cells, this spillage
may be replaced by drawing a little electrolyte out of each cell of the other full cells in
the set. Oftentimes several cells will have electrolyte extending above the water line, which
will aid greatly in making up any loss in other cells. After all cells have been drawn on to
fill up the ones that are spilled, the entire set may then have its electrolyte brought up
to the water line by adding distilled water.

Very carefully adjust spillage of pilot cells (Delco), as it is very important that the specific
gravity of the pilot cells be left as near 1.220 as possible.

In case the spillage is more than one inch below the top of plates or glass broken, remove
cell and install a new cell in its place. The spilled or broken cell must not be used until
given special treatment.

Connecting Cells

Before connecting up the cells the terminals should be scraped clean for about 11/2 inches
on both sides. An old knife or rough file is suitable for doing this work. After the terminals
are thoroughly brightened, they should be covered with vaseline. The bolts and nuts used in
making the connections on the battery should also be coated with vaseline. The vaseline prevents
and retards corrosion, which is harmful to efficient operation.

If a new battery is to be installed in parallel with one already in service, connections should
be made so that each series will consist of half new and half old cells. The pilot cells for
the new battery should be placed in one series and that for the old battery in the other, unless
local conditions may make some other arrangement desirable.

A drop light must always be provided to enable the user to inspect his battery, particularly
when giving the monthly equalizing charge.

Initial Charge

When a battery is connected to the plant, it should be given a proper INITIAL CHARGE before
any power or lights are used.

Batteries shipped filled with electrolyte are fully charged before leaving the factory. As
soon as a storage battery cell of any type or make is taken off charge and stands idle for
a considerable length of time, some of the acid in the electrolyte is absorbed by the plates,
thereby lowering the gravity and forming sulphate on the plates. This process is very gradual,
but it is continuous, and unless the acid is completely driven out of the plates by charging
before the battery is used, the battery will not give as good service as the user has a right
to expect. Due to the time required in shipment, the above action has a chance to take place,
which makes it necessary to give the initial charge.

The initial charge consists of charging the battery, with the power and light switch open,
until each cell is bubbling freely from the top to bottom on the surface of the outside negative
plates and both pilot balls are up (Delco-Light), and then CONTINUING THE CHARGE FOR FIVE HOURS
MORE. If the battery has no pilot cells, measure the specific gravity of the electrolyte of
each cell, and continue the charge until six consecutive readings show no increase in gravity.

As an accurate check on giving the initial charge properly (Delco-Light), we strongly recommend
that hourly hydrometer readings of both pilot cells be taken after both balls are up, the charge
to be continued until six consecutive hourly readings show no RISE in gravity.

Due to the fact that it is impossible to hold each cell in a battery to a definite maximum
gravity when fully charged, there is likely to be a variation of from ten to fifteen points
in the specific gravity readings of the various cells. It should be understood, however, that
the maximum gravity is the gravity when the cells are fully charged and with the level of the
solution at the water line. For example, with each cell in a battery fully charged and therefore
at maximum gravity and with the level at the proper height, some cells may read 1.230, one
or two 1.235, several 1.215 and 1.210. All of these cells will operate efficiently, and there
should be no cause for alarm. An exception to this is the pilot cell of the Delco-Light Battery.

If this check on the initial charge is properly made, it assures the service man and dealer
that the battery is in proper operating condition to be turned over to the user. Negligence
in giving the initial charge properly may result in trouble to both user, service man and dealer.

The initial charge may require considerable running of the plant, depending upon the state
of charge of the cells when installed.

Instructing Users

During the time the initial charge is being given, the service man should instruct the user
on the care and operation of the plant and battery.

The best way to give instructions to the user is to tack the instruction cards on the wall
near the plant in a place where the user can read them easily.

Proceed to read over the plant operating card with the user. Read the first item, go to the
plant, explain this feature to the user and allow him to perform the operation, if the instruction
calls for actual performance.

Remember, the user is not familiar with the plant and battery, and the actual performance of
each operation aids him to retain the instructions.

After the first item has been covered thoroughly, proceed to the second, etc. During the course
of instruction, the user will often interrupt with questions not dealing directly with the
point being explained. The service man should keep the user's attention on the points he is
explaining. When the service man has finished explaining both plant and battery instruction
cards, he should answer any points in question which the user wants explained.

When the monthly equalizing charge is explained to the user, the service man should always
take the user to the battery and show him a cell bubbling freely. This is necessary in order
that the user may recognize when the cells are bubbling freely at the time he gives the monthly
equalizing charge.

Impress upon the user the importance of inspecting each cell when giving the monthly equalizing
charge to see that every cell bubbles freely. If a cell fails to bubble freely at the end of
the equalizing charge, the user should inform the service man of this condition immediately.

Caution the user against the use of an open flame near the plant or battery at any time. The
gas which accumulates in a cell will explode sufficiently to break the glass jar if this gas
is ignited by a spark or open flame.

Care of the Plant in Operation

(See also special instructions for the different makes, beginning page 460.)

The battery repairman should be able not only to repair the batteries, but should also be able
to keep the entire plant in working order, and suggestions will be given as to what must be
done, although no detailed instructions for work on the generator, engine, and switchboard
will be given as this is beyond the scope of this book.

Battery Room. The essential things about the battery room are that it must be clean, dry, and
well ventilated. This means, of course, that the battery and battery rack must also be kept
clean and dry. A good time to clean up is when the battery is being charged. Clean out the
room first, sweeping out dirt and rubbish, dusting the walls, and so on. Both high and low
temperatures should be avoided. If the battery room is kept too hot, the battery will become
heated and the hot electrolyte will attack the plates and separators. Low temperatures do no
actual harm to a charged battery except to make the battery sluggish, and seem to lack capacity.
A discharged battery will, however, freeze above 0° Fahrenheit. The battery will give the best
service if the battery room temperature is kept between 60° and 80° Fahrenheit.

Do not bring any open flame such as a lantern, candle or match near a battery and do not go
near the battery with a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe, especially while the battery is charging.
Hydrogen and oxygen gases form a highly explosive mixture. An explosion will not only injure
the battery, but will probably disfigure the one carrying the light, or even destroy his eyes.

It is a good plan to keep the windows of the battery room open as much as possible.

Engine. The engine which drives the generator requires attention occasionally. Wipe off all
dirt, oil or grease. Keep the engine well lubricated with a good oil. If grease cups are used,
give these several turns whenever the engine is run to charge the battery. Use clean fuel,
straining it, if necessary, through a clean cloth or chamois, if there is any dirt in it. The
cooling water should also be clean, and in winter a non-freezing preparation should be added
to it. Do not change the carburetor setting whenever the engine does not act properly. First
look over the ignition system and spark plug for trouble, and also make sure that the carburetor
is receiving fuel. If possible, overhaul the engine once a year to clean out the carbon, tighten
bearings and flywheel, remove leaky gaskets, and so on.

Generator. Keep the outside of the generator clean by wiping it occasionally with an oiled
rag. See that there is enough lubricating oil in the bearings, but that there is not too much
oil, especially in the bearing at the commutator end of the generator. Keep the commutator
clean. If it is dirty, wipe it with a rag moistened slightly with kerosene. The brushes should
be lifted from the commutator while this is being done. Finish with a dry cloth. If the commutator
is rough it may be made smooth with fine sandpaper held against it while the generator is running,
and the brushes are lifted.

The surfaces of the brushes that bear on the commutator should be inspected to see that they
are clean, and that the entire surfaces make contact with the commutator. The parts that are
making contact will look smooth and polished, while other parts will have a dull, rough appearance.
If the brush contact surfaces are dirty or all parts do not touch the commutator, draw a piece
of fine sandpaper back and forth under the brushes, one at a time, with the sanded side of
the paper against the brush. This will clean the brushes and shape the contact surfaces to
fit the curve of the commutator. Brushes should be discarded when they be come so short that
they do not make good contact with the commutator. See that the brush holders and brush wires
are all tight and clean. Watch for loose connections of wires, as these will cause voltage
loss when the generator is charging the battery. Watch for "high mica," which means a condition
in which the insulation between the segments projects above the surface of the commutator,
due to the commutator wearing down faster than the insulation. If this condition arises, the
mica should be cut down until it is slightly below the surface of the commutator. An old hack
saw blade makes a good tool for this purpose. A commutator may have grooves cut in by the brushes.
These grooves do no harm as long as the brushes have become worn to the exact shape of the
grooves. When the brushes are "dressed" with sandpaper, however, they will not fit the grooves,
and the commutator should be turned down in a lathe until the grooves are removed.

A steady low hum will be heard when the generator is in operation. Loud or unusual noises should
be investigated, however, as a bearing may need oil, the armature may be rubbing on the field
pole faces, and so on.

Watch for overheating of the generator. If you can hold your hand on the various parts of the
generator, the temperature is safe. If the temperature is so high that parts may be barely
touched with the hand, or if an odor of burned rubber is noticeable, the generator is being
overheated, and the load on the generator should be reduced.

Switchboard. Clean off dirt and grease occasionally. Keep switch contacts clean and smooth.
If a "cutout" is on the board, keep its contacts smooth and clean. If the knife switch blades
are hard to move, look for cutting at the pivots. Something may be cutting into the blades.
If this is found to be the case, use a file to remove all roughness from the parts of the pivot.
See that no switches are bent or burned.

Keep the back of the board clean and dry as well as the front. See that all connections are
tight. Keep all wires, rheostats, etc., perfectly clean. A coat of shellac on the wires, switch
studs, etc., will be helpful in keeping these parts clean.

Care of Battery

Cleanliness. Keep the battery and battery rack clean. After a charge is completed, wipe off
any electrolyte that may be running down the outsides of the jars. Wipe all electrolyte and
other moisture from the battery rack. Occasionally go over the rack with a rag wet with ammonia
or washing soda solution. Then finish with a dry cloth. Paint the rack with asphaltum paint
once a year, or oftener if the paint is rubbed or scratched.

If sand trays are used, renew the sand whenever it becomes very wet with electrolyte. Keep
the terminals and connectors clean. Near the end of a charge, feel each joint between cells
for a poor connection. Watch also for corrosion on the connections. Corrosion is caused by
the electrolyte attacking any exposed metals other than lead, near the battery, resulting in
a grayish deposit on the connectors or bolts at the joints. Such joints will become hotter
than other joints, and may thus be located by feeling the joints after the battery has been
charged for some time. Corrosion may be removed by washing the part in a solution of baking soda.

Be very careful to keep out of the cells anything that does not belong there. Impurities injure
a cell and may even ruin it. Do not let anything, especially metals, fall into a cell. If this
is done accidentally, pour out the electrolyte immediately, put in new separators, wash the
plates in water, fill with electrolyte having a gravity about 30 points higher than that which
was poured out, and charge. The cell may be connected in its proper place and the entire battery
charged. Vent plugs should be kept in place at all times, except when water is added to the
electrolyte.

Keep the Electrolyte Above the Tops of the Plates. If the battery has glass jars, the height
of the electrolyte can be seen easily. If the battery has sealed rubber jars, the height of
the electrolyte may be determined with a glass tube, as described on page 55. In most batteries
the electrolyte should stand from three-fourths of an inch to an inch above the plates. Some
jars have a line or mark showing the proper height of the electrolyte. A good time to inspect
the height of the electrolyte is just before putting the battery on charge. If the electrolyte
is low, distilled water should be added to bring it up to the proper level. Water should never
be added at any other time, as the charging current is required to mix the water thoroughly
with the electrolyte.

Determining the Condition of the Cells. The specific gravity of the electrolyte is the best
indicator of the condition of the battery as to charge, just as is the case in automobile batteries,
and hence should be watched closely. It is not convenient or necessary to take gravity readings
on every cell in the battery on every charge or discharge. Therefore, one cell called the "Pilot"
cell should be selected near the center of the battery and its specific gravity readings taken
to indicate the state of charge or discharge of the entire battery. Delco-Light batteries each
have two pilot cells with special jars. Each of these has a pocket in one of its walls in which
a ball operates as a hydrometer or battery gauge. One pilot cell contains the pilot ball for
determining the end of the charge, and other pilot cell containing the ball for determining
the end of the discharge. See Fig. 294.

Hydrometer readings should be taken frequently, and a record of consecutive readings kept.
When the gravity drops to the lowest value allowable (1.150 to 1.180, depending on the make
of battery) the battery should be charged.

