The unexpectedness of the reply reduced Mrs. Ansell to a sound of inarticulate interrogation;
and Mr. Langhope continued: "Not at first, that is. She had thought it all out--foreseen everything;
and she wrung from me--I don't yet know how!--a promise that when I saw him I would make it
appear that I cleared him completely, not only of any possible complicity, or whatever you
choose to call it, but of any sort of connection with the matter in my thoughts of him. I am,
in short, to let him feel that he and I are to continue on the old footing--and I agreed, on
the condition of her effacing herself somehow--of course on some other pretext."

"Some other pretext? But what conceivable pretext? My poor friend, he adores her!"

Mr. Langhope raised his eyebrows slightly. "We haven't seen him since this became known to
him. She has; and she let slip that he was horror-struck."

Mrs. Ansell looked up with a quick exclamation. "Let slip? Isn't it much more likely that she
forced it on you--emphasized it to the last limit of credulity?" She sank her hands to the
arms of the chair, and exclaimed, looking him straight in the eyes: "You say she was frightened?
It strikes me she was dauntless!"

Mr. Langhope stared a moment; then he said, with an ironic shrug: "No doubt, then, she counted
on its striking me too."

Mrs. Ansell breathed a shuddering sigh. "Oh, I understand your feeling as you do--I'm deep
in the horror of it myself. But I can't help seeing that this woman might have saved herself--and
that she's chosen to save her husband instead. What I don't see, from what I know of him,"
she musingly proceeded, "is how, on any imaginable pretext, she will induce him to accept the
sacrifice."

Mr. Langhope made a resentful movement. "If that's the only point your mind dwells on----!"

Mrs. Ansell looked up. "It doesn't dwell anywhere as yet--except, my poor Henry," she murmured,
rising to move toward him, and softly laying her hand on his bent shoulder--"except on your
distress and misery--on the very part I can't yet talk of, can't question you about...."

He let her hand rest there a moment; then he turned, and drawing it into his own tremulous
fingers, pressed it silently, with a clinging helpless grasp that drew the tears to her eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Justine Brent, in her earliest girlhood, had gone through one of those emotional experiences
that are the infantile diseases of the heart. She had fancied herself beloved of a youth of
her own age; had secretly returned his devotion, and had seen it reft from her by another.
Such an incident, as inevitable as the measles, sometimes, like that mild malady, leaves traces
out of all proportion to its actual virulence. The blow fell on Justine with tragic suddenness,
and she reeled under it, thinking darkly of death, and renouncing all hopes of future happiness.
Her ready pen often beguiled her into recording her impressions, and she now found an escape
from despair in writing the history of a damsel similarly wronged. In her tale, the heroine
killed herself; but the author, saved by this vicarious sacrifice, lived, and in time even
smiled over her manuscript.

It was many years since Justine Amherst had recalled this youthful incident; but the memory
of it recurred to her as she turned from Mr. Langhope's door. For a moment death seemed the
easiest escape from what confronted her; but though she could no longer medicine her despair
by turning it into fiction, she knew at once that she must somehow transpose it into terms
of action, that she must always escape from life into more life, and not into its negation.

She had been carried into Mr. Langhope's presence by that expiatory passion which still burns
so high, and draws its sustenance from so deep down, in the unsleeping hearts of women. Though
she had never wavered in her conviction that her act had been justified her ideas staggered
under the sudden comprehension of its consequences. Not till that morning had she seen those
consequences in their terrible, unsuspected extent, had she understood how one stone rashly
loosened from the laboriously erected structure of human society may produce remote fissures
in that clumsy fabric. She saw that, having hazarded the loosening of the stone, she should
have held herself apart from ordinary human ties, like some priestess set apart for the service
of the temple. And instead, she had seized happiness with both hands, taken it as the gift
of the very fate she had herself precipitated! She remembered some old Greek saying to the
effect that the gods never forgive the mortal who presumes to love and suffer like a god. She
had dared to do both, and the gods were bringing ruin on that deeper self which had its life
in those about her.

So much had become clear to her when she heard Amherst declare his intention of laying the
facts before Mr. Langhope. His few broken words lit up the farthest verge of their lives. She
saw that his retrospective reverence for his wife's memory, which was far as possible removed
from the strong passion of the mind and senses that bound him to herself, was indelibly stained
and desecrated by the discovery that all he had received from the one woman had been won for
him by the deliberate act of the other. This was what no reasoning, no appeal to the calmer
judgment, could ever, in his inmost thoughts, undo or extenuate. It could find appeasement
only in the renunciation of all that had come to him from Bessy; and this renunciation, so
different from the mere sacrifice of material well-being, was bound up with consequences so
far-reaching, so destructive to the cause which had inspired his whole life, that Justine felt
the helpless terror of the mortal who has launched one of the heavenly bolts.

She could think of no way of diverting it but the way she had chosen. She must see Mr. Langhope
first, must clear Amherst of the least faint association with her act or her intention. And
to do this she must exaggerate, not her own compunction--for she could not depart from the
exact truth in reporting her feelings and convictions--but her husband's first instinctive
movement of horror, the revulsion of feeling her confession had really produced in him. This
was the most painful part of her task, and for this reason her excited imagination clothed
it with a special expiatory value. If she could purchase Amherst's peace of mind, and the security
of his future, by confessing, and even over-emphasizing, the momentary estrangement between
them there would be a bitter joy in such payment!

Her hour with Mr. Langhope proved the correctness of her intuition. She could save Amherst
only by effacing herself from his life: those about him would be only too ready to let her
bear the full burden of obloquy. She could see that, for a dozen reasons, Mr. Langhope, even
in the first shock of his dismay, unconsciously craved a way of exonerating Amherst, of preserving
intact the relation on which so much of his comfort had come to depend. And she had the courage
to make the most of his desire, to fortify it by isolating Amherst's point of view from hers;
so that, when the hour was over, she had the solace of feeling that she had completely freed
him from any conceivable consequence of her act.

So far, the impetus of self-sacrifice had carried her straight to her goal; but, as frequently
happens with such atoning impulses, it left her stranded just short of any subsequent plan
of conduct. Her next step, indeed, was clear enough: she must return to Hanaford, explain to
her husband that she had felt impelled to tell her own story to Mr. Langhope, and then take
up her ordinary life till chance offered her a pretext for fulfilling her promise. But what
pretext was likely to present itself? No symbolic horn would sound the hour of fulfillment;
she must be her own judge, and hear the call in the depths of her own conscience.

XXXIX

WHEN Amherst, returning late that afternoon from Westmore, learned of his wife's departure,
and read the note she had left, he found it, for a time, impossible to bring order out of the
confusion of feeling produced in him.

His mind had been disturbed enough before. All day, through the routine of work at the mills,
he had laboured inwardly with the difficulties confronting him; and his unrest had been increased
by the fact that his situation bore an ironic likeness to that in which, from a far different
cause, he had found himself at the other crisis of his life. Once more he was threatened with
the possibility of having to give up Westmore, at a moment when concentration of purpose and
persistency of will were at last beginning to declare themselves in tangible results. Before,
he had only given up dreams; now it was their fruition that he was asked to surrender. And
he was fixed in his resolve to withdraw absolutely from Westmore if the statement he had to
make to Mr. Langhope was received with the least hint of an offensive mental reservation. All
forms of moral compromise had always been difficult to Amherst, and like many men absorbed
in large and complicated questions he craved above all clearness and peace in his household
relation. The first months of his second marriage had brought him, as a part of richer and
deeper joys, this enveloping sense of a clear moral medium, in which no subterfuge or equivocation
could draw breath. He had felt that henceforth he could pour into his work all the combative
energy, the powers of endurance, resistance, renovation, which had once been unprofitably dissipated
in the vain attempt to bring some sort of harmony into life with Bessy. Between himself and
Justine, apart from their love for each other, there was the wider passion for their kind,
which gave back to them an enlarged and deepened reflection of their personal feeling. In such
an air it had seemed that no petty egotism could hamper their growth, no misintelligence obscure
their love; yet all the while this pure happiness had been unfolding against a sordid background
of falsehood and intrigue from which his soul turned with loathing.

Justine was right in assuming that Amherst had never thought much about women. He had vaguely
regarded them as meant to people that hazy domain of feeling designed to offer the busy man
an escape from thought. His second marriage, leading him to the blissful discovery that woman
can think as well as feel, that there are beings of the ornamental sex in whom brain and heart
have so enlarged each other that their emotions are as clear as thought, their thoughts as
warm as emotions--this discovery had had the effect of making him discard his former summary
conception of woman as a bundle of inconsequent impulses, and admit her at a stroke to full
mental equality with her lord. The result of this act of manumission was, that in judging Justine
he could no longer allow for what was purely feminine in her conduct. It was incomprehensible
to him that she, to whom truth had seemed the essential element of life, should have been able
to draw breath, and find happiness, in an atmosphere of falsehood and dissimulation. His mind
could assent--at least in the abstract--to the reasonableness of her act; but he was still
unable to understand her having concealed it from him. He could enter far enough into her feelings
to allow for her having kept silence on his first return to Lynbrook, when she was still under
the strain of a prolonged and terrible trial; but that she should have continued to do so when
he and she had discovered and confessed their love for each other, threw an intolerable doubt
on her whole course.

He stayed late at the mills, finding one pretext after another for delaying his return to Hanaford,
and trying, while he gave one part of his mind to the methodical performance of his task, to
adjust the other to some definite view of the future. But all was darkened and confused by
the sense that, between himself and Justine, complete communion of thought was no longer possible.
It had, in fact, never existed; there had always been a locked chamber in her mind, and he
knew not yet what other secrets might inhabit it.

The shock of finding her gone when he reached home gave a new turn to his feelings. She had
made no mystery of her destination, leaving word with the servants that she had gone to town
to see Mr. Langhope; and Amherst found a note from her on his study table.

"I feel," she wrote, "that I ought to see Mr. Langhope myself, and be the first to tell him
what must be told. It was like you, dearest, to wish to spare me this, but it would have made
me more unhappy; and Mr. Langhope might wish to hear the facts in my own words. I shall come
back tomorrow, and after that it will be for you to decide what must be done."

The brevity and simplicity of the note were characteristic; in moments of high tension Justine
was always calm and direct. And it was like her, too, not to make any covert appeal to his
sympathy, not to seek to entrap his judgment by caressing words and plaintive allusions. The
quiet tone in which she stated her purpose matched the firmness and courage of the act, and
for a moment Amherst was shaken by a revulsion of feeling. Her heart was level with his, after
all--if she had done wrong she would bear the brunt of it alone. It was so exactly what he
himself would have felt and done in such a situation that faith in her flowed back through
all the dried channels of his heart. But an instant later the current set the other way. The
wretched years of his first marriage had left in him a residue of distrust, a tendency to dissociate
every act from its ostensible motive. He had been too profoundly the dupe of his own enthusiasm
not to retain this streak of scepticism, and it now moved him to ask if Justine's sudden departure
had not been prompted by some other cause than the one she avowed. Had that alone actuated
her, why not have told it to him, and asked his consent to her plan? Why let him leave the
house without a hint of her purpose, and slip off by the first train as soon as he was safe
at Westmore? Might it not be that she had special reasons for wishing Mr. Langhope to hear
her own version first--that there were questions she wished to parry herself, explanations
she could trust no one to make for her? The thought plunged Amherst into deeper misery. He
knew not how to defend himself against these disintegrating suspicions--he felt only that,
once the accord between two minds is broken, it is less easy to restore than the passion between
two hearts. He dragged heavily through his solitary evening, and awaited with dread and yet
impatience a message announcing his wife's return.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would have been easier--far easier--when she left Mr. Langhope's door, to go straight out
into the darkness and let it close in on her for good.

Justine felt herself yielding to the spell of that suggestion as she walked along the lamplit
pavement, hardly conscious of the turn her steps were taking. The door of the house which a
few weeks before had been virtually hers had closed on her without a question. She had been
suffered to go out into the darkness without being asked whither she was going, or under what
roof her night would be spent. The contrast between her past and present sounded through the
tumult of her thoughts like the evil laughter of temptation. The house at Hanaford, to which
she was returning, would look at her with the same alien face--nowhere on earth, at that moment,
was a door which would open to her like the door of home.

In her painful self-absorption she followed the side street toward Madison Avenue, and struck
southward down that tranquil thoroughfare. There was a physical relief in rapid motion, and
she walked on, still hardly aware of her direction, toward the clustered lights of Madison
Square. Should she return to Hanaford, she had still several hours to dispose of before the
departure of the midnight train; and if she did not return, hours and dates no longer existed
for her.

It would be easier--infinitely easier--not to go back. To take up her life with Amherst would,
under any circumstances, be painful enough; to take it up under the tacit restriction of her
pledge to Mr. Langhope seemed more than human courage could face. As she approached the square
she had almost reached the conclusion that such a temporary renewal was beyond her strength--beyond
what any standard of duty exacted. The question of an alternative hardly troubled her. She
would simply go on living, and find an escape in work and material hardship. It would not be
hard for so inconspicuous a person to slip back into the obscure mass of humanity.

She paused a moment on the edge of the square, vaguely seeking a direction for her feet that
might permit the working of her thoughts to go on uninterrupted; and as she stood there, her
eyes fell on the bench near the corner of Twenty-sixth Street, where she had sat with Amherst
on the day of his flight from Lynbrook. He too had dreamed of escaping from insoluble problems
into the clear air of hard work and simple duties; and she remembered the words with which
she had turned him back. The cases, of course, were not identical, since he had been flying
in anger and wounded pride from a situation for which he was in no wise to blame; yet, if even
at such a moment she had insisted on charity and forbearance, how could she now show less self-denial
than she had exacted of him?

"If you go away for a time, surely it ought to be in such a way that your going does not seem
to cast any reflection on Bessy...." That was how she had put it to him, and how, with the
mere change of a name, she must now, for reasons as cogent, put it to herself. It was just
as much a part of the course she had planned to return to her husband now, and take up their
daily life together, as it would, later on, be her duty to drop out of that life, when her
doing so could no longer involve him in the penalty to be paid.

She stood a little while looking at the bench on which they had sat, and giving thanks in her
heart for the past strength which was now helping to build up her failing courage: such a patchwork
business are our best endeavours, yet so faithfully does each weak upward impulse reach back
a hand to the next.

       *       *       *       *       *

Justine's explanation of her visit to Mr. Langhope was not wholly satisfying to her husband.
She did not conceal from him that the scene had been painful, but she gave him to understand,
as briefly as possible, that Mr. Langhope, after his first movement of uncontrollable distress,
had seemed able to make allowances for the pressure under which she had acted, and that he
had, at any rate, given no sign of intending to let her confession make any change in the relation
between the households. If she did not--as Amherst afterward recalled--put all this specifically
into words, she contrived to convey it in her manner, in her allusions, above all in her recovered
composure. She had the demeanour of one who has gone through a severe test of strength, but
come out of it in complete control of the situation. There was something slightly unnatural
in this prompt solution of so complicated a difficulty, and it had the effect of making Amherst
ask himself what, to produce such a result, must have been the gist of her communication to
Mr. Langhope. If the latter had shown any disposition to be cruel, or even unjust, Amherst's
sympathies would have rushed instantly to his wife's defence; but the fact that there was apparently
to be no call on them left his reason free to compare and discriminate, with the final result
that the more he pondered on his father-in-law's attitude the less intelligible it became.

A few days after Justine's return he was called to New York on business; and before leaving
he told her that he should of course take the opportunity of having a talk with Mr. Langhope.

She received the statement with the gentle composure from which she had not departed since
her return from town; and he added tentatively, as if to provoke her to a clearer expression
of feeling: "I shall not be satisfied, of course, till I see for myself just how he feels--just
how much, at bottom, this has affected him--since my own future relation to him will, as I
have already told you, depend entirely on his treatment of you."

She met this without any sign of disturbance. "His treatment of me was very kind," she said.
"But would it not, on your part," she continued hesitatingly, "be kinder not to touch on the
subject so soon again?"

The line deepened between his brows. "Touch on it? I sha'n't rest till I've gone to the bottom
of it! Till then, you must understand," he summed up with decision, "I feel myself only on
sufferance here at Westmore."

"Yes--I understand," she assented; and as he bent over to kiss her for goodbye a tenuous impenetrable
barrier seemed to lie between their lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Justine's turn to await with a passionate anxiety her husband's home-coming; and when,
on the third day, he reappeared, her dearly acquired self-control gave way to a tremulous eagerness.
This was, after all, the turning-point in their lives: everything depended on how Mr. Langhope
had "played up" to his cue; had kept to his side of their bond.

Amherst's face showed signs of emotional havoc: when feeling once broke out in him it had full
play, and she could see that his hour with Mr. Langhope had struck to the roots of life. But
the resultant expression was one of invigoration, not defeat; and she gathered at a glance
that her partner had not betrayed her. She drew a tragic solace from the success of her achievement;
yet it flung her into her husband's arms with a passion of longing to which, as she instantly
felt, he did not as completely respond.

There was still, then, something "between" them: somewhere the mechanism of her scheme had
failed, or its action had not produced the result she had counted on.

As soon as they were alone in the study she said, as quietly as she could: "You saw your father-in-law?
You talked with him?"

"Yes--I spent the afternoon with him. Cicely sent you her love."

She coloured at the mention of the child's name and murmured: "And Mr. Langhope?"

"He is perfectly calm now--perfectly impartial.--This business has made me feel," Amherst added
abruptly, "that I have never been quite fair to him. I never thought him a magnanimous man."

"He has proved himself so," Justine murmured, her head bent low over a bit of needlework; and
Amherst affirmed energetically: "He has been more than that--generous!"

She looked up at him with a smile. "I am so glad, dear; so glad there is not to be the least
shadow between you...."

"No," Amherst said, his voice flagging slightly. There was a pause, and then he went on with
renewed emphasis: "Of course I made my point clear to him."

"Your point?"

"That I stand or fall by his judgment of you."

Oh, if he had but said it more tenderly! But he delivered it with the quiet resolution of a
man who contends for an abstract principle of justice, and not for a passion grown into the
fibres of his heart!

"You are generous too," she faltered, her voice trembling a little.

Amherst frowned; and she perceived that any hint, on her part, of recognizing the slightest
change in their relations was still like pressure on a painful bruise.

"There is no need for such words between us," he said impatiently; "and Mr. Langhope's attitude,"
he added, with an effort at a lighter tone, "has made it unnecessary, thank heaven, that we
should ever revert to the subject again."

He turned to his desk as he spoke, and plunged into perusal of the letters that had accumulated
in his absence.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a temporary excess of work at Westmore, and during the days that followed he threw
himself into it with a zeal that showed Justine how eagerly he sought any pretext for avoiding
confidential moments. The perception was painful enough, yet not as painful as another discovery
that awaited her. She too had her tasks at Westmore: the supervision of the hospital, the day
nursery, the mothers' club, and the various other organizations whereby she and Amherst were
trying to put some sort of social unity into the lives of the mill-hands; and when, on the
day after his return from New York, she presented herself, as usual, at the Westmore office,
where she was in the habit of holding a brief consultation with him before starting on her
rounds, she was at once aware of a new tinge of constraint in his manner. It hurt him, then,
to see her at Westmore--hurt him more than to live with her, at Hanaford, under Bessy's roof!
For it was there, at the mills, that his real life was led, the life with which Justine had
been most identified, the life that had been made possible for both by the magnanimity of that
other woman whose presence was now forever between them.

Justine made no sign. She resumed her work as though unconscious of any change; but whereas
in the past they had always found pretexts for seeking each other out, to discuss the order
of the day's work, or merely to warm their hearts by a rapid word or two, now each went a separate
way, sometimes not meeting till they regained the house at night-fall.

And as the weeks passed she began to understand that, by a strange inversion of probability,
the relation between Amherst and herself was to be the means of holding her to her compact
with Mr. Langhope--if indeed it were not nearer the truth to say that it had made such a compact
unnecessary. Amherst had done his best to take up their life together as though there had been
no break in it; but slowly the fact was being forced on her that by remaining with him she
was subjecting him to intolerable suffering--was coming to be the personification of the very
thoughts and associations from which he struggled to escape. Happily her promptness of action
had preserved Westmore to him, and in Westmore she believed that he would in time find a refuge
from even the memory of what he was now enduring. But meanwhile her presence kept the thought
alive; and, had every other incentive lost its power, this would have been enough to sustain
her. Fate had, ironically enough, furnished her with an unanswerable reason for leaving Amherst;
the impossibility of their keeping up such a relation as now existed between them would soon
become too patent to be denied.

Meanwhile, as summer approached, she knew that external conditions would also call upon her
to act. The visible signal for her withdrawal would be Cicely's next visit to Westmore. The
child's birthday fell in early June; and Amherst, some months previously, had asked that she
should be permitted to spend it at Hanaford, and that it should be chosen as the date for the
opening of the first model cottages at Hopewood.

It was Justine who had originated the idea of associating Cicely's anniversaries with some
significant moment in the annals of the mill colony; and struck by the happy suggestion, he
had at once applied himself to hastening on the work at Hopewood. The eagerness of both Amherst
and Justine that Cicely should be identified with the developing life of Westmore had been
one of the chief influences in reconciling Mr. Langhope to his son-in-law's second marriage.
Husband and wife had always made it clear that they regarded themselves as the mere trustees
of the Westmore revenues, and that Cicely's name should, as early as possible, be associated
with every measure taken for the welfare of the people. But now, as Justine knew, the situation
was changed; and Cicely would not be allowed to come to Hanaford until she herself had left
it. The manifold threads of divination that she was perpetually throwing out in Amherst's presence
told her, without word or sign on his part, that he also awaited Cicely's birthday as a determining
date in their lives. He spoke confidently, and as a matter of course, of Mr. Langhope's bringing
his grand-daughter at the promised time; but Justine could hear a note of challenge in his
voice, as though he felt that Mr. Langhope's sincerity had not yet been put to the test.

As the time drew nearer it became more difficult for her to decide just how she should take
the step she had determined on. She had no material anxiety for the future, for although she
did not mean to accept a penny from her husband after she had left him, she knew it would be
easy for her to take up her nursing again; and she knew also that her hospital connections
would enable her to find work in a part of the country far enough distant to remove her entirely
from his life. But she had not yet been able to invent a reason for leaving that should be
convincing enough to satisfy him, without directing his suspicions to the truth. As she revolved
the question she suddenly recalled an exclamation of Amherst's--a word spoken as they entered
Mr. Langhope's door, on the fatal afternoon when she had found Wyant's letter awaiting her.

"There's nothing you can't make people believe, you little Jesuit!"

She had laughed in pure joy at his praise of her; for every bantering phrase had then been
a caress. But now the words returned with a sinister meaning. She knew they were true as far
as Amherst was concerned: in the arts of casuistry and equivocation a child could have outmatched
him, and she had only to exert her will to dupe him as deeply as she pleased. Well! the task
was odious, but it was needful: it was the bitterest part of her expiation that she must deceive
him once more to save him from the results of her former deception. This decision once reached,
every nerve in her became alert for an opportunity to do the thing and have it over; so that,
whenever they were alone together, she was in an attitude of perpetual tension, her whole mind
drawn up for its final spring.

The decisive word came, one evening toward the end of May, in the form of an allusion on Amherst's
part to Cicely's approaching visit. Husband and wife were seated in the drawing-room after
dinner, he with a book in hand, she bending, as usual, over the needlework which served at
once as a pretext for lowered eyes, and as a means of disguising her fixed preoccupation.

"Have you worked out a plan?" he asked, laying down his book. "It occurred to me that it would
be rather a good idea if we began with a sort of festivity for the kids at the day nursery.
You could take Cicely there early, and I could bring out Mr. Langhope after luncheon. The whole
performance would probably tire him too much."

Justine listened with suspended thread. "Yes--that seems a good plan."

"Will you see about the details, then? You know it's only a week off."

"Yes, I know." She hesitated, and then took the spring. "I ought to tell you John--that I--I
think I may not be here...."

