ANECDOTES OF ANIMALS

  ILLUSTRATED

   ANECDOTES
   OF
   ANIMALS

   WITH·PICTVRES·BY
   PERCY J. BILLINGHVRST.

   McLOUGHLIN
   BROS.

   NEW YORK

CONTENTS

   A

   Amusing Mimic, An                                                  24

   Animal Concerts                                                     5

   Are Beasts mere Machines?

If his master was away from home, and the command was given "Go fetch thy master," he would
at once pick up the lantern, hold it fast between his teeth, and start for the town, which
was more than a mile away from the home of his master. If he had gone with him only once to
a house, this was enough to make him take in that house in his rounds.

III

STUDYING

A magpie belonging to a barber in Rome, could imitate very perfectly almost everything it heard.
Some trumpets happened one day to be sounded before the shop, and for a day or two afterward
the magpie was quite mute, and seemed sad and melancholy. All who knew it supposed that the
sound of the trumpets had so stunned it as to rob it at once of both voice and hearing.

But this was not the case, as very soon appeared. The learning of this lesson, however, so
exhausted the magpie's brain that it forgot everything it had known before.

However, a woman, called Maldonata, was artful enough to get past the watchful guards, and
made her escape. After wandering about the country for a long time, she came upon a cave into
which she went. As soon as she was inside, she saw therein a lioness, the sight of which frightened
her greatly. She was, however, soon quieted by the caresses of the animal, who in return for
a service done for her by the woman, showed every sign of affection and friendliness. She never
returned from searching after her own daily food without laying a part of it at the feet of
Maldonata, until her cubs were large and strong enough to walk abroad, then she took them out
one day and never came back. Two days later, he sent the same soldiers to see what had happened
to her.

V

A REMARKABLE NEWSMAN

One of the carriers of a large newspaper being ill, his son took his place; but, not knowing
the subscribers he was to supply, he took for his guide a dog which had usually gone over the
route with his father. The animal trotted on ahead of the boy and stopped at every door where
the paper was to be left, without making a single mistake, or forgetting anybody. He quietly
pushed it off with his paw, and walked slowly away. But bruin, much wiser than they expected,
after snuffing about the place for a few moments, scraped the snow away with his paws, threw
the rope aside once more, and again escaped unhurt with his prize. "Hail, Cæsar, Conqueror
and Imperator!" Augustus, greatly amused and delighted with so novel a greeting, bought the
gifted bird of the man for a sum which was so large that it made him rich. One cold winter
day, a boy, almost frozen with the cold, entered Marco's hut, without thinking of the danger
which he ran in thus exposing himself to the mercy of the animal which was in there. Marco,
however, instead of doing the child any injury, took him between his paws, and warmed him by
pressing him to his breast until the next morning, when he let him go. The boy came back to
the hut in the evening, and was received with the same affection. For several days he had no
other home, and it added not a little to his joy to see that the bear always saved part of
his food for him. A number of days passed in this way without the servants knowing anything
of what was going on. At length, when one of them came one day, rather later than usual, to
bring the bear his supper, he was greatly surprised to see the huge animal roll his eyes in
a furious manner, and act as if he wished him to make as little noise as possible, for fear
of awaking the child whom he held clasped to his breast. The animal, though very hungry, did
not seem to be the least moved by the sight of the food which was placed before him. The story
of this strange incident was soon spread at court, and reached the ears of Leopold; who, with
part of his courtiers, was anxious to learn if the tale of Marco's generosity were true. The
bear, however, caressed him, and tried to get him to eat what had been brought to him the evening
before. He did this at the request of the courtiers, who conducted him to the prince. Having
learned the whole story, Leopold ordered the little boy to be taken care of, and he would,
no doubt, have soon made his fortune, had he not died a short time afterward.

IX

A CLEVER CROW

A carrion crow, seeing on a lawn, a brood of fourteen chickens under the care of a mother-hen,
picked up one; but when a young lady opened a window and gave the alarm, the robber dropped
his prey. In the course of the day, however, the thief returned, together with thirteen other
crows. Then each one seized a chick, and thus the whole brood was carried off at once. The
field on which they sat was bounded on one side by a wood, out of which, as they were singing,
they noticed a hare pass with great swiftness toward the place where they were sitting, and
at about twenty yards' distance from them, it stopped. It then seemed greatly delighted with
the music, often turning up the side of its head so as to hear more easily. As soon as the
singing was over, the hare returned slowly toward the wood.

XI

AN AMUSING MIMIC

A priest once brought up an ourang-outang, which became so fond of him that, wherever he went,
it always wanted to go with him. Whenever, therefore, he had to perform the service of his
church, he was obliged to shut him up in his room.

XII

OLD HABITS

A famous Scotch lawyer, having cause to visit London, decided to make the journey on horseback
rather than by post; for this was before the days of railways. He, therefore, purchased a horse,
and on his arrival in London, sold his nag, planning to buy another for the return journey.
When he had finished his business, and was ready to set out for home, he went to Smithfield
to buy another horse. About dusk, a handsome horse was offered to him at so cheap a rate, that
he suspected the animal might not be sound; but as he could not find anything the matter with
the horse, he bought it. Instead of passing the chaise, he laid his breast close up to it,
and stopped it, having no doubt that his rider would take advantage of so fair a chance of
following his trade. The clergyman, under the same mistake, took out his purse without being
asked, and assured the innocent and surprised horseman that it was not necessary to draw his
pistol.

XIII

NOBLE PERSEVERENCE

Elephants were, of old, employed in India in the launching of ships. It is told of one, that,
being directed to force a very large ship into the water, the work proved to much for its strength.
Its master, in sarcastic tones bade the keeper take away the lazy beast, and bring another.
The poor animal instantly put forth still greater efforts, fractured his skull, and died on
the spot. As the cat crept along under the hedge, the crow followed her, flying from branch
to branch, and from tree to tree; and when at last puss dared to leave her hiding place, the
crow, leaving the tree, and hovering over her in the air, let the stone drop from on high on
her back.

XV

HEROISM OF AN IRISH HEN

A contest of rather an unusual nature took place in the house of an innkeeper in Ireland. The
parties engaged were a hen of the game species and a rat of middle size. The hen, in a walk
round a spacious room, accompanied by an only chicken, the last one left of a large brood,
was roused to madness by an attack made by a fierce rat on her helpless little one. The frightened
cries of her beloved little chick, while it was being dragged away by the rat, awoke all the
mother-love in the bosom of the hen. On our way home, however, we came suddenly upon a body
of lambs at the bottom of a deep ravine, and in front of them was sitting Sirrah, who was looking
around for help. We decided that here was at least one of the divisions which Sirrah had managed
to collect; but what was our astonishment when we discovered that not one of the whole flock
was missing.

XVII

TRAVELLERS

An innkeeper once sent, as a present to a friend, a dog and cat that had been companions for
more than ten months. The carrier took them, tied up in a bag.

XIX

A DOG SHEEP-STEALER

A shepherd, who was hung for sheep-stealing, used to commit the robberies by means of his dog.
Whenever he wished to steal any sheep, he sent the dog to do the business. He would visit a
flock of sheep, looking them over, as if he intended buying some. The dog was always by his
side, and to him he gave a signal secretly, whenever he saw any particular sheep he wanted.
Sometimes he would pick out ten or twelve from a flock of some hundreds. Dog and man then went
away, and from a distance of several miles, the dog would be sent back by himself in the night
time. The wise creature picked out the very sheep the man had selected, separated them from
the rest of the flock, and drove them before him, often a distance of ten or twelve miles,
till he came up with his master, to whom he delivered them up. The crew threw great lumps of
the flesh upon the ice, and the old bear carried them away, one by one, laying a lump before
each of her cubs, as she brought it, and thus dividing it, keeping only a small share for herself.
As she was carrying off the last piece, the sailors shot both the cubs dead and wounded the
mother, but not fatally. It would have touched the heart of all but the most unfeeling had
they seen the affectionate concern of this poor animal in the dying moments of her young. Though
terribly wounded herself, she crawled to the place where they lay, carrying a lump of flesh
with her. She tore the lump in pieces, and laid it before them. When she saw that they refused
to eat, she laid her paws first upon one, then upon the other, and tried to raise them up,
moaning meanwhile most pitifully. Finding she could not stir them, she went off, and when she
had gone some distance, looked back and moaned, and called them. As that did not seem to entice
them away, she crawled back, and smelling round them, began to lick their wounds. She went
off a second time a few paces, looked behind her again, and for some time stood moaning and
calling. As the cubs did not rise to follow her, she returned once more, and with signs of
inexpressible fondness went round them, caressing them with her paws.

XXI

A STRANGE MOUSER

A gentleman once owned a hen that was a fine mouser. Food was brought to him, and he was kindly
coaxed to eat it; but on taking the bread, instead of eating it himself, he fondly laid it
on his master's mouth and renewed his howling. Days thus passed, but not for a single moment
did he leave the body.

XXIII

A JUST RETALIATION

A tame elephant kept by a merchant was allowed to go at large. The noble animal, who knew it
was beneath him to crush them, did not hesitate to punish them by other means.

XXV

THE DOLPHIN

In the reign of Augustus Cæsar there was, in the Lucrine lake, a dolphin which formed a most
romantic attachment to the son of a poor man. As the story goes, the dolphin felt so badly
when the lad failed to come as usual, that it threw itself on the shore, and died, as was thought,
of very grief and sorrow at the loss of its friend. The wager was accepted, and the piece of
money marked and hidden. When the two had gone on some distance, the tradesman called to his
dog that he had lost something, and told him to seek it. The dog turned back at once, and his
master and his friend went on their way. Supposing him to be some dog that had lost his master,
the traveller took these actions as marks of affection, and as the animal was handsome, decided
to keep him. He gave him a good supper, and on retiring, took him with him to his room. But
no sooner had he pulled off his trousers than they were seized by the dog. The dog snatched
up the trousers, and away he went, the traveller, with his nightcap on, posting after him.
The traveller became still more angry. This was the reason for the robbery which he committed
upon you." The stranger said he had found such a coin, gave it up to the man, and went on his
way. But the clever dog had thus proven himself to be a good finder.

About four months afterwards, however, his injuries having all healed, he returned to the poultry
yard, with three other storks, who no sooner alighted than they all together fell upon the
tame stork, and killed it. In a country where berries are scarce, these little animals were
obliged to cross a river to make their forages. In returning with their booty to their homes,
they had to recross the stream; in doing which they showed an ingenuity little short of marvelous.
The party, which consisted of five, selected a water-lily leaf, on which they placed their
berries in a heap in the middle; then, by their united force, they brought it to the water's
edge, and after launching it, jumped on it, and placed themselves round the heap, with their
heads joined over it, and their backs to the water. In this manner they drifted down the stream
until they reached the opposite shore, when they unloaded their cargo, and stored it away for
the coming rainy day.

XXIX

DRAWING WATER

Some years ago, a donkey was employed at Carisbrook Castle, in the Isle of Wight, in drawing
water by means of a large wheel from a very deep well, thought to have been sunk by the Romans.
When the keeper wanted water, he would say to the donkey, "Tom, my boy, I want water; get into
the wheel, my lad." Thomas, thereupon, got in, with a speed and wisdom that would have done
credit to a nobler animal. No doubt he knew the exact number of times the wheel had to turn
upon its axis to bring up the bucket, because every time he brought it to the surface of the
well, he stopped and turned round his honest head to note the moment when his master laid hold
of the bucket to draw it toward him, because he had then a nice turn to make either to draw
back, or to go ahead a little. It was pleasing to see with what steadiness and regularity the
poor animal did his work. Shut out of the prison, he returned to his master's house, and found
it closed. He then took refuge with a neighbor. Every day at the same hour, the dog left the
house, and went straight to the door of the prison, where he whined mournfully. He was refused
admittance, but each day he spent an hour before the door, and then went away. The jailer could
hardly drive him away. The neighbor, in the meantime, unhappy at not seeing him, went in search
of his friend, and found him by his master's grave. He caressed him and made him eat a little
food. He even coaxed the faithful creature away for a few moments, but he soon returned to
his master's grave. Three months passed. The dog came each morning to get his food, and then
returned to the grave. Each day he was more sad, more lean, more feeble. He was chained up,
but broke his fetters; escaped; returned to the grave, and never left it more. It was in vain
that they tried to get him back. They carried him food, but he ate no longer. For hours he
was seen digging up with his weakened limbs the earth that separated him from his beloved master.

XXXI

REMORSE

An elephant, from some motive of revenge, killed his mahout, or driver. The elephant instantly
became calm looked at them a moment, and then, as if stung with remorse, took up the eldest
boy with his trunk, placed him on his neck, adopted him for his driver, and would never afterwards
allow any other person to mount him.

XXXIII

CUNNING AS A FOX

An American gentleman was hunting foxes, accompanied by two bloodhounds. On looking round about
himself, he saw sly Reynard stretched upon the log, as still as if he were dead. At last he
went so near the artful creature that he could see it breathe.

XXXIV

FAITHFUL THOUGH UNLOVED

A gentleman once owned a mastiff which guarded the house and yard, but had never any particular
attention from his master. One night, as his master was retiring to his room, attended by his
valet, an Italian, the mastiff silently followed him upstairs, something which he had never
been before known to do, and to his master's astonishment, came into his bedroom. He was at
once turned out; but the poor animal began scratching violently at the door, and howled loudly
for admission. The servant was sent to drive him away; but again he returned, and seemed more
anxious than before to be let in. Getting tired of his barking, the gentleman bade the servant
open the door, that they might see what it was the animal wanted to do. As soon as he was let
in the dog walked to the bed, and crawling under it, laid himself down as if intending to spend
the night there. To save farther trouble, this was allowed. About midnight the chamber door
opened, and some one was heard stepping carefully across the floor. The gentleman started from
his sleep; the dog sprang from his covert, and seizing the unwelcome intruder, fixed him to
the spot. It was found to be the valet, who little expected such a reception. This he would
surely have done, had it not been for the great wisdom of the dog and his wonderful friendship
for a master who had never treated him with the kindness that he should have done.

XXXV

A FAITHFUL COMPANION

A gardener, in removing some rubbish one day, found two ground toads of uncommon size, weighing
no less than seven pounds. While he was watching them, he was surprised to see that one of
them got upon the back of the other, and then both moved slowly over the ground toward a place
of retreat. Upon further examination he found that the one on the back of the other had been
badly wounded by a blow from his spade, and was thus unable to get back to its home without
the help of its friend.

XXXVI

ELEPHANT ROPE DANCING

The ease with which the elephant is taught to perform the most difficult feats forms a remarkable
contrast to its huge size and clumsiness.

XXXVII

A PROVIDENTIAL SAFE CONDUCT

A traveller tells a singular anecdote of a lion, which he says was told to him by a very credible
person. One night, while travelling along, they were much astonished and alarmed to see a great
lion close by them, walking when they walked and standing still when they did. She would sometimes
try to feed with the dog, but this the dog, who treated his faithful companion with indifference,
would not allow. This strange affection of the goose for the dog, which continued till his
death, two years after it was first noticed, is supposed to have been due to the fact, that
once, in her very young days, he had saved her from a fox. The end of this faithful bird was
very sad; for when the dog died, she would still keep possession of the kennel. Thus did the
noble horse revenge his master's death. In doing this, he fell into the water himself, and
would certainly have been drowned, had not the dog, as soon as he saw his master struggling
helplessly in the stream, allowed the boat to float away, seized his master's coat, and held
him above water till help came, and his life was saved. She afterwards helped in securing the
other elephants, and likewise brought her three young ones. The keeper recovered his reputation;
and, as a recompense for his sufferings and bravery, had a certain sum of money settled on
him for life. He repeated his cries, ran to the door, looked back to see if any one followed
him, went back to his master's friend, pulled him by the sleeve, and with a great deal of earnestness
seemed begging him to follow. As the dog continued to follow and attack the man, though kind
and gentle to all others, his actions began to attract notice and comment.

At last the affair reached the king's ear. He sent for the dog, who seemed very gentle till
he saw the murderer, when he ran at him fiercely, growling and snapping at him as usual. The
assassin was afterward convicted and beheaded.

XLIII

CRAB FISHING

The following is an instance of the wonderful cunning shown by the Raccoon. They came to his
aid, and drove the poor animal away. A faithful servant conducted him to the mouth of a cave
and gave him an abundant store of food. The fugitive crept in at a low opening, dragging his
stores along. He soon saw that the animal was in great pain, and feeling her body and limbs,
found that her leg was broken. He bound it up with his garter, and offered her a share of the
bread beside him; but she put out her tongue, as if to tell him that her mouth was parched
with thirst. He spoke to the goat, and she obeyed him, and allowed the servant to enter. The
gentleman was sure that had a band of soldiers attacked the cavern, his grateful patient would
have died in his defense.

XLVII

FOX CHASING

During a fox hunt, Reynard, being hard pressed, had to take refuge up the chimney of a hot
house. He was followed by one of the hounds, who, passing through a flue nearly fifty feet
in length, came out at the top of the chimney, but in some way missed Reynard in its dark recesses.
By this time a number of people were collected at the top of the chimney. They let down a terrier,
who, holding fast by his brush, soon drove him out.

XLVIII

THE RIGHTS OF HOSPITALITY

A native Moor who went to hunt the lion, having gone far into the forest, happened to meet
with two lion's cubs that came to caress him. The hunter stopped with the little animals, and
waiting for the coming of the father or mother, took out his breakfast and gave them a part.
He stroked and caressed the cubs at taking leave of them, and the mother and father went with
him till he was safely out of the forest. This sight pleased me so much, that I was anxious
to have it repeated, and to try their strength, directed a full-grown negro to mount the smaller
and the two boys the larger. This burden did not seem at all too much for their strength. I
have often seen this performance, and it gives one an idea of the wonderful strength of an
ostrich, and shows of what use it might be, did we but know how to break and manage it as we
do a horse."

LI

RETRIBUTION

A fawn that was drinking in a park, was suddenly pounced upon by one of the swans, that pulled
the animal into the water, and held it under till it was drowned. This cruel deed was noticed
by the other deer in the park, and did not go long unrevenged; for shortly after this the very
swan, which had never till this time been molested by the deer, was singled out when on land
one day, and furiously attacked by the herd, which closed around the cruel swan, and soon killed
it.

To make the elephant keep this position, an attendant threw fruit and nuts into the open mouth,
but sometimes he only pretended to throw them.

LIII

STRANGE PLAYMATES

A little girl about three years of age was noticed for a number of days going a considerable
distance from the house with a piece of bread her mother had given her. This attracted the
attention of the mother, who asked the father to follow the child, and find out what she did
with the bread. On coming to the child, he found her busy at work feeding several snakes of
the species of rattlesnakes called yellow heads. He quickly took her away, went to the house
for his gun, and returning, killed two of them at one shot, and another a few days afterward.
The child called these snakes as you would call chickens, and when her father told her if she
let them come so near her, they would bite her, she replied, "No, they won't bite. They only
eat the bread I give them." The people were pleased with this action, and said that the animal
should be kept at public expense as long as it lived.

LV

MONKEY VERSUS SNAKE

The monkeys in India, knowing by instinct how dangerous snakes are, are most vigilant in their
destruction. They seize them by the neck, when asleep, and running to the nearest flat stone,
grind down their heads by a strong friction on the surface, often looking at them, and grinning
at their progress. When sure that the poisonous fangs are destroyed, they toss the reptiles
to their young ones to play with, and seem to be greatly pleased at the death of their enemies.
When he refused to move, he was scolded, then beaten, first gently, and afterward pretty hard
with the cart whip. But it was all to no purpose; the dog still lay quietly on the bag. The
driver, with an oath, threatened to drive over the dog--he did so, and the faithful animal,
in trying to stop the wheel by biting it, was crushed to pieces.

LVIII

A STRANGE FOSTER MOTHER

On an estate in Scotland a terrier had a litter of pups, which were at once taken away from
her and drowned. What is still more strange is, that the same animal, when her litter of pups
were taken away the year before, seized two chicks, which she brought up with the same care
she now bestowed upon the ducks. Its nose and lips were of a delicate rose color. Two large
eyes sparkled in its round head; one was of yellow and the other of fine blue.

This beautiful animal had even more beauty of manners than grace in attitude and movements.
She interrupted him often in the midst of his labors or meditations, by little caresses that
were very touching, and she usually followed him in his walks. During his absence she sought
and called for him all the time. How plainly was her love for me shown in her face! How many
times have her caresses made me forget my troubles and comforted me in the midst of my misfortunes!
My beautiful and interesting companion, however, at last died. After several days of suffering,
during which I never left her, the light of her eyes, which were constantly fixed on me, went
out, and her death rent my heart with sorrow." Some hours afterward, having been released from
her confinement, she hastened to the hall, but found nothing left for her. The clever cat then
went to the bell, and ringing it, tried to call the family to a second dinner, in which she
hoped to get her usual share.

"Well, Mr. Constable," said one of the magistrates, "if you should be annoyed again by this
animal in the execution of your duty, you may arrest him if you can, and bring him before us
to answer your complaints." He cut its wings and put it in his garden. The door had been left
open, and a strange cat had just come into the room! After she had put it out, her own cat
came down from her place of safety, and dropped the bird without having done it the least injury.

LXIV

THE LION AND HIS KEEPER

In a large menagerie there was a lion called Danco, whose cage needed some repairs. The sparrow,
firmly seated, refused to leave the nest. A smart battle followed, in which the swallow was
joined by its mate, and, during the conflict, by several of their comrades. Since the sparrow
could not be driven out of the nest, the next question with them appears to have been, how
she could be otherwise punished for her unlawful occupation of a property belonging to another.
The council were of one mind in thinking that nothing short of the death of the intruder could
atone for so heinous an offense; and having so decided, they went to work to put their sentence
into execution in the following very wonderful manner.

LXVII

TAME HARES

The hare is scarcely a domestic animal; yet we have an account of one that was so tame as to
feed from the hand, lie under a chair in the sitting-room, and appear in every way as easy
and comfortable as a lapdog. It now and then went out into the garden, but, after hopping about
in the fresh air for a while, it always returned to the house. They were like the "Sly Couple,"
of whose devotion to the chase an amusing story is told.

LXVIII

THE PIG POINTER

A sow, which was a thin, long-legged animal, when young took such a fancy to some pointer puppies
that a gamekeeper on a neighboring estate was breaking, that it played, and often came to feed
with them. This led the gamekeeper, who had broken many a dog as obstinate as a pig, to think
he might also manage to break a pig. The other pocket he filled with stones, which he threw
at the pig whenever she misbehaved.

LXIX

A WISE OURANG-OUTANG

A well-known traveller tells a story about the ourang-outang in its wild state, which shows
that it has both a good memory and some ingenuity. A few days after, the dog fell in with a
duck, which, as he found in no private pond, he no doubt decided was no private property.

LXXI

WRENS LEARNING TO SING

A wren built her nest in a box, so placed that a family had a chance to watch the mother bird
teaching her young ones the art of singing peculiar to wrens. She fixed herself on one side
of the opening in the box, directly before the young birds, and began singing over her whole
song very distinctly. One of the little birds then tried to imitate her. After singing through
a few notes, its voice broke and it lost the tune. The mother at once began again where the
young one had failed, and went very distinctly through the rest of the song. Then the little
one resumed the song and finished it.

This done, the mother sang over the whole series of notes a second time with great care, and
a second of the young ones tried to follow her. The wren followed the same course with this
one as with the first; and so on with the third and all the rest. It sometimes happened that
the young bird would lose the tune three or four or more times in the same attempt, and the
mother would always begin where they stopped and sing the rest of the song; and when each little
bird had sung the whole song through, she repeated the whole strain. Sometimes two of the young
birds began together. The mother did just the same as when one sang alone. This practise was
repeated day after day, and several times a day.

LXXII

RARE HONESTY

A mastiff dog, who owed more to the kindness of a neighbor than to his master, was once locked
by mistake in the well-stored pantry of his benefactor for a whole day, where there were, within
his reach, milk, butter, bread and meat, in abundance.

LXXIII

DIVISION OF LABOR

The Alpine marmots are said to work together in the collection of materials for the building
of their homes. Some of them, we are told, cut the herbage, others collect it into heaps; a
third set serve as wagons to carry it to their holes; while still others perform all the work
of draught horses. The manner of the latter part of the curious process is this. The animal
that is to be the wagon, lies down on its back, and stretching out its four legs as wide as
it can, allows itself to be loaded with hay; and those that are to be the horses, drag it,
thus loaded, by the tail, taking care not to upset the creature. The task of thus serving as
a wagon being, evidently, the least desirable part of the business, is taken by every one of
the party in turn. The parrot answered, "I look after chickens." The prince laughing, exclaimed,
"You look after chickens!" The parrot in reply said, "Yes, I do; and I know well how to do
it;" clucking at the same time in imitation of the noise made by the hen to call her little
chicks together.

At first the goldfinches seemed careless about their young ones. The father canary, attracted
by the cries of the baby goldfinches, forced himself through a flaw in the wire, and began
to feed them. This it did regularly, until the goldfinches undertook the work themselves, and
rendered the kindness of the canary no longer necessary.

LXXVI

CHOOSING THE LEAST OF TWO EVILS

A french dog was taught by his master to run many different errands, among others to bring
him his meals from a restaurant. The dog was very clever at managing the cattle.

At last, so sure was the master of the wisdom and faithfulness of his dog, that he made a wager
that he would trust him with a certain number of sheep and oxen, and let him drive them to
the market all by himself. It was agreed that no person should be within sight or hearing--at
least no one who had any control over the dog; nor was anybody to interfere or be within a
quarter of a mile.

On the day of the trial, the dog went about his business in the most skilful and knowing manner;
and although he had often to drive his charge through the herds that were grazing, yet he never
lost one, but conducting them into the very yard to which he was wont to drive them when with
his master, he delivered them up to the person appointed to receive them. He was several times
afterward sent thus alone for the amusement of the curious or the convenience of his master,
and always did his work in the same adroit and intelligent manner.

LXXVIII

THE CATCHER CAUGHT

During a sudden flood in the Rhine, a hare, unable to find a way of escape through the water
to higher land, climbed up a tree. One of the boatmen rowing about to assist the unfortunate
people, seeing her, rowed up to the tree, and, eager for the game, climbed it, without properly
fastening his boat.

LXXIX

SNAKE DESTROYERS

The Indian ichneumon, a small creature, looking like both the weasel and the mongoose, is of
great use to the natives because of its great hatred of snakes, which would otherwise make
every footstep of the traveller most dangerous. It then suddenly disappeared for a few minutes,
and again returned as soon as it had found and eaten the herb it knew was an antidote.

LXXX

MUSICAL MICE

"One rainy winter evening, as I was alone in my room," says an American gentleman, "I took
up my flute and began to play. In a few minutes my attention was directed to a mouse that I
saw creeping from a hole, and coming toward the chair in which I was sitting. I stopped playing,
and it ran quickly back to its hole. I began again shortly afterward, and was much surprised
to see it reappear, and take its old position. The actions of the little animal were truly
amusing. It lay down on the floor, shut its eyes, and seemed delighted, but the minute I stopped
my playing, it instantly disappeared again. This experiment I often repeated with the same
result. I also noted that the mouse was differently affected, as the music varied from the
slow and sad to the brisk or lively. It finally went away, and all my art could not coax it
to return." The horse he was taking along, tied to the end of the cart. Oscar, however, notwithstanding
their repeated endeavors, would not let go his hold, and the pony was actually led into the
stable with the dog still clinging to it. When the carrier entered the stable, Oscar wagged
his tail in token of his satisfaction, and at once gave up the bridle to his master.

LXXXII

A TAME COLONY

A well-known traveller, in describing the Island of Tristan d'Acunha, states that the animals
found on this lonely spot were so tame, that it was necessary to clear a path right through
the mass of birds which were sitting on the rocks, and this was done by simply kicking them
aside. One kind of seal did not move at all when struck or pelted, and at last some of the
company amused themselves by mounting them, and riding them into the sea.

LXXXIII

THE BEAR CUBS

A mother bear, with two cubs, came too near a whaler, and was shot. The cubs not trying to
escape, were taken alive. It at once swam to the ice, got upon it, and tried to escape. Finding
itself, however, held by the rope, it tried to free itself in the following clever way. But
when she had come up to him, she lay down at his feet, and looked very earnestly, first at
him, and then at a tree a short distance off. After doing this several times, she arose and
started toward the tree, looking back at the man several times, as if trying to make him follow
her. At length he went, and when he reached the tree, he saw a huge baboon with two young cubs
in her arms. He supposed they must belong to the lioness, as she lay down like a cat, and seemed
to be watching them very anxiously. The man being afraid to climb the tree, decided to cut
it down, and having his axe with him, he at once set to work, the lioness, meantime, watching
to see what he was doing.

LXXXVI

DOG SMUGGLERS

In the Netherlands, they use dogs of a very large and strong breed as they would horses. They
are harnessed like horses, and chiefly employed in drawing little carts filled with fish, vegetables,
and other produce. Before the year 1795, such dogs were also employed in smuggling; which was
the easier, as they are exceedingly docile. There they rested until midnight, and they then
returned in the same manner as they had come, back over the frontiers.

LXXXVIII

A HUMANE SOCIETY

A large colony of rooks had lived for many years in a grove on the banks of a river. In the
midst of this play, it unfortunately happened that one of the rooks, by a sudden turn, struck
his head against the wing of another. The wounded bird instantly fell into the river. A general
cry of distress followed. The birds hovered with every expression of anxiety over their distressed
companion.

LXXXIX

A MOTHER WATCHING HER YOUNG

The following singular instance of the far-sighted watchfulness of the mother turkey over her
young is told by a French priest. "I have heard," he says, "a mother turkey, when at the head
of her brood, send forth the most hideous scream, without being able to see any cause for it.
However, it soon appeared to be a bird of prey, though at first at too great a distance to
be distinguished. I have seen one of those mother turkeys continue in this agitated state for
four hours at a stretch, and her whole brood pinned down to the ground, as it were, the whole
of that time, while their foe has taken its circuits, has mounted and hovered directly over
their heads. When he went to do this, he found to his surprise that the squirrel, all wet and
ruffled by the storm, had come back, and again taken up his lodgings in the corner of the trap.

XCI

ESCAPE OF JENGIS KAHN

The Mogul and Kalmuc Tartars give to the white owl credit for preserving Jengis Khan, the founder
of their empire; and they pay it, on that account, almost divine honors.

XCIII

ARE BEASTS MERE MACHINES? He at once led them to a garret, where he found the idle dog, drove
him out and killed him at once."

Instantly the whole place was in an uproar; some great danger was feared.

XCVII

A CHILD SAVED

