Grace

                           Actual and Habitual

                           A Dogmatic Treatise

                                    By

               The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph Pohle, Ph.D., D.D.

 Formerly Professor of Dogmatic Theology at St. Joseph’s Seminary, Leeds
    (England), Later Professor of Fundamental Theology at The Catholic
                          University of America

                          Adapted and Edited by

                              Arthur Preuss

                          Third, Revised Edition

                        W. E. Blake & Son, Limited

                         Catholic Church Supplies

                              123 Church St.

                             Toronto, Canada

                                   1919

CONTENTS

Imprimatur
Introduction
Part I. Actual Grace
   Chapter I. The Nature Of Actual Grace
      Section 1. Definition Of Actual Grace
      Section 2. Division Of Actual Grace
   Chapter II. The Properties Of Actual Grace
      Section 1. The Necessity Of Actual Grace
         Article 1. The Capacity Of Mere Nature Without Grace
         Article 2. The Necessity Of Actual Grace For All Salutary Acts
         Article 3. The Necessity Of Actual Grace For The States Of
         Unbelief, Mortal Sin, And Justification
      Section 2. The Gratuity Of Actual Grace
      Section 3. The Universality Of Actual Grace
         Article 1. The Universality Of God’s Will To Save
         Article 2. God’s Will To Give Sufficient Grace To All Adult Human
         Beings In Particular
         Article 3. The Predestination Of The Elect
         Article 4. The Reprobation Of The Damned
   Chapter III. Grace In Its Relation To Free-Will
      Section 1. The Heresy of The Protestant Reformers And The Jansenists
      Section 2. Theological Systems Devised To Harmonize The Dogmas Of
      Grace And Free-Will
         Article 1. Thomism And Augustinianism
         Article 2. Molinism And Congruism
Part II. Sanctifying Grace
   Chapter I. The Genesis Of Sanctifying Grace, Or The Process Of
   Justification
      Section 1. The Necessity Of Faith For Justification
      Section 2. The Necessity Of Other Preparatory Acts Besides Faith
   Chapter II. The State Of Justification
      Section 1. The Nature Of Justification
         Article 1. The Negative Element Of Justification
         Article 2. The Positive Element Of Justification
      Section 2. Justifying Or Sanctifying Grace
         Article 1. The Nature Of Sanctifying Grace
         Article 2. The Effects Of Sanctifying Grace
         Article 3. The Supernatural Concomitants Of Sanctifying Grace
      Section 3. The Properties Of Sanctifying Grace
   Chapter III. The Fruits Of Justification, Or The Merit Of Good Works
      Section 1. The Existence Of Merit
      Section 2. The Requisites Of Merit
      Section 3. The Objects Of Merit
Index
Footnotes

IMPRIMATUR

NIHIL OBSTAT

Sti. Ludovici, die 18 Jan. 1919

F. G. Holweck,
 Censor Librorum

IMPRIMATUR

Sti. Ludovici, die 21 Jan. 1919

Joannes J. Glennon
 Archiepiscopus
 Sti. Ludovici

Copyright, 1914
 by
 Joseph Gummersbach

All rights reserved

Printed in U. S. A.

BECKTOLD PRINTING & BOOK MFG. CO. ST. LOUIS. U. S. A.

INTRODUCTION

Humanity was reconciled to God by the Redemption. This does not, however, mean that every individual
human being was forthwith justified, for individual justification is wrought by the application
to the soul of grace derived from the inexhaustible merits of Jesus Christ.

There are two kinds of grace: (1) actual and (2) habitual. Actual grace is a supernatural gift
by which rational creatures are enabled to perform salutary acts. Habitual, or, as it is commonly
called, sanctifying, grace is a habit, or more or less enduring state, which renders men pleasing
to God.

This distinction is of comparatively recent date, but it furnishes an excellent principle of
division for a dogmatic treatise on grace.(1)

PART I. ACTUAL GRACE

Actual grace is a transient supernatural help given by God from the treasury of the merits
of Jesus Christ for the purpose of enabling man to work out his eternal salvation.

We shall consider: (1) The Nature of Actual Grace; (2) Its Properties, and (3) Its Relation
to Free-Will.

    GENERAL READINGS:—St. Thomas, Summa Theologica, 1a 2ae, qu.
    109-114, and the commentators, especially Billuart, De Gratia
    (ed. Lequette, t. III); the Salmanticenses, De Gratia Dei
    (Cursus Theologiae, Vol. IX sqq., Paris 1870); Thomas de Lemos,
    Panoplia Divinae Gratiae, Liège 1676; Dominicus Soto, De Natura
    et Gratia, l. III, Venice 1560; *Ripalda,(2) De Ente
    Supernaturali, 3 vols. (I, Bordeaux 1634; II, Lyons 1645; III,
    Cologne 1648).

    *C. v. Schäzler, Natur und Übernatur: Das Dogma von der Gnade,
    Mainz 1865; IDEM, Neue Untersuchungen über das Dogma von der
    Gnade, Mainz 1867; *J. E. Kuhn, Die christliche Lehre von der
    göttlichen Gnade, Tübingen 1868; Jos. Kleutgen, S. J., Theologie
    der Vorseit, Vol. II, 2nd ed., pp. 152 sqq., Münster 1872; R.
    Cercià, De Gratia Christi, 3 vols., Paris 1879; *C. Mazzella, S.
    J., De Gratia Christi, 4th ed., Rome 1895; *J. H. Oswald, Die
    Lehre von der Heiligung, d. i. Gnade, Rechtfertigung, Gnadenwahl,
    3rd ed., Paderborn 1885; *D. Palmieri, S. J., De Gratia Divina
    Actuali, Gulpen 1885; *Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische
    Theologie, Vol. VIII, Mainz 1897; *S. Schiffini, S. J., De
    Gratia Divina, Freiburg 1901; G. Lahousse, S. J., De Gratia
    Divina, Louvain 1902; Chr. Pesch, S. J., Praelectiones
    Dogmaticae, Vol. V, 3rd ed., Freiburg 1908; G. van Noort, De
    Gratia Christi, Amsterdam 1908; E. J. Wirth, Divine Grace, New
    York 1903; S. J. Hunter, S. J., Outlines of Dogmatic Theology,
    Vol. III, pp. 1 sqq.; Wilhelm-Scannell, A Manual of Catholic
    Theology, Vol. II, 2nd ed., pp. 227 sqq., London 1901; A. Devine,
    The Sacraments Explained, 3rd ed. pp. 1-43, London 1905.—L.
    Labauche, S. S., God and Man, Lectures on Dogmatic Theology II,
    pp. 123 sqq., New York 1916.—J. E. Nieremberg, S. J., The Marvels
    of Divine Grace, tr. by Lady Lovat, London 1917.

    On the teaching of the Fathers cfr. Isaac Habert, Theologiae
    Græcorum Patrum Vindicatae circa Universam Materiam Gratiae Libri
    III, Paris 1646; E. Scholz, Die Lehre des hl. Basilius von der
    Gnade, Freiburg 1881; Hümmer, Des hl. Gregor von Nazianz Lehre
    von der Gnade, Kempten 1890; E. Weigl, Die Heilslehre des hl.
    Cyrill von Alexandrien, Mainz 1905. GENERAL NOTION OF GRACE.—The best way to arrive at a correct definition
of actual grace is by the synthetic method. We therefore begin with the
general notion of grace.

Like “nature,”(3) grace (gratia, χάρις) is a word of wide reach, used in a great variety of
senses. Habert(4) enumerates no less than fourteen; which, however, may be reduced to four.

a) Subjectively, grace signifies good will or benevolence shown by a superior to an inferior,
as when a criminal is pardoned by the king’s grace.

b) Objectively, it designates a favor inspired by good will or benevolence. In this sense the
term may be applied to any free and gratuitous gift (donum gratis datum), as when a king bestows
graces on his lieges.

c) Grace may also mean personal charm or attractiveness. In this sense the term frequently
occurs in Latin and Greek literature (the Three Graces). Charm elicits love and prompts a person
to the bestowal of favors.

d) The recipient of gifts or favors usually feels gratitude towards the giver, which he expresses
in the form of thanks. Hence the word gratiae (plural) frequently stands for thanksgiving (“gratias
agere,” “Deo gratias,” “to say grace after meals”).(5)

The first and fundamental of these meanings is “a free gift or favor.” The benevolence of the
giver and the attractiveness of the recipient are merely the reasons for which the gift is
imparted, whereas the expression of thanks is an effect following its bestowal.

Dogmatic theology is concerned exclusively with grace in the fundamental sense of the term.

e) Grace is called a gift (donum, δωρεά), because it is owing to free benevolence, not required
by justice. It is called gratuitous (gratis datum), because it is bestowed without any corresponding
merit on the part of the creature. A gift may be due to the recipient as a matter of distributive
or commutative justice, and in that case it would not be absolutely gratuitous (gratis). Grace,
on the contrary, is bestowed out of pure benevolence, from no other motive than sheer love.
This is manifestly St. Paul’s idea when he writes: “And if by grace, it is not now by works:
otherwise grace is no more grace.”(6) It is likewise the meaning of St. Augustine when he says,
in his Homilies on the Gospel of St. John, that grace is “something gratuitously given ...
as a present, not in return for something else.”(7)

2. NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL GRACE.—Grace is not necessarily supernatural. Sacred Scripture
and the Fathers sometimes apply the word to purely natural gifts. We petition God for our daily
bread, for good health, fair weather and other temporal favors, and we thank Him for preserving
us from pestilence, famine, and war, although these are blessings which do not transcend the
order of nature.(8)

a) Our petitions for purely natural favors are inspired by the conviction that creation itself,
and everything connected therewith, is a gratuitous gift of God. This conviction is well founded.
God was under no necessity of creating anything: creation was an act of His free-will. Again,
many of the favors to which human nature, as such, has a claim, are free gifts when conferred
upon the individual. Good health, fortitude, talent, etc., are natural graces, for which we
are allowed, nay obliged, to petition God. The Pelagians employed this truth to conceal a pernicious
error when they unctuously descanted on the magnitude and necessity of grace as manifested
in creation. It was by such trickery that their leader succeeded in persuading the bishops
assembled at the Council of Diospolis or Lydda (A. D. 415) that his teaching was quite orthodox.
St. Augustine and four other African bishops later reported to Pope Innocent I, that if these
prelates had perceived that Pelagius meant to deny that grace by which we are Christians and
sons of God, they would not have listened to him so patiently, and that, consequently, no blame
attached to these judges because they simply took the term “grace” in its ecclesiastical sense.(9)

b) Generally speaking, however, the term “grace” is reserved for what are commonly called the
supernatural gifts of God, the merely preternatural as well as the strictly supernatural.(10)
In this sense "grace" is as sharply opposed to purely natural favors as nature is opposed to
the supernatural.

The importance of the distinction between supernatural and purely natural grace will appear
from an analysis of the concept itself. Considered as gifts of God, the strictly supernatural
graces (e.g., justification, divine sonship, the beatific vision) ontologically exceed the
bounds of nature. Considered as purely gratuitous favors, they are negatively and positively
undeserved. The grace involved in creation, for instance, is not conferred on some existing
beneficiary, but actually produces its recipient. The creation itself, therefore, being entirely
gratis data, all that succeeds it, supernatural grace included, must be negatively undeserved,
in as far as it was not necessary for the recipient to exist at all. But the supernatural graces
are indebitae also positively, i.e. positing the creation, because they transcend every creatural
claim and power. Both elements are contained in the above-quoted letter of the African bishops
to Pope Innocent I: “Though it may be said in a certain legitimate sense, that we were created
by the grace of God, ... that is a different grace by which we are called predestined, by which
we are justified, and by which we receive eternal beatitude.”(11) Of this last-mentioned grace
(i.e. grace in the strictly supernatural sense), St. Augustine says: “This, the grace which
Catholic bishops are wont to read in the books of God and preach to their people, and the grace
which the Apostle commends, is not that by which we are created as men, but that by which as
sinful men we are justified.”(12) In other words, natural is opposed to supernatural grace
in the same way that nature is opposed to the supernatural. “[To believe] is the work of grace,
not of nature. It is, I say, the work of grace, which the second Adam brought us, not of nature,
which Adam wholly lost in himself.”(13) Adding the new note obtained by this analysis we arrive
at the following definition: Grace is a gratuitous super-natural gift.(14)

3. THE GRACE OF GOD AND THE GRACE OF CHRIST.—Though all supernatural graces are from God, a
distinction is made between the “grace of God” and the “grace of Christ.” The difference between
them is purely accidental, based on the fact that the “grace of Christ” flows exclusively from
the merits of the atonement.

a) The following points may serve as criteria to distinguish the two notions:

A) The gratia Dei springs from divine benevolence and presupposes a recipient who is unworthy
merely in a negative sense (=not worthy, non dignus), whereas the gratia Christi flows from
mercy and benevolence and is conferred on a recipient who is positively unworthy (indignus).

B) The gratia Dei elevates the soul to the supernatural order (gratia elevans), while the gratia
Christi heals the wounds inflicted by sin, especially concupiscence (gratia elevans simul et
sanans).

C) The gratia Dei is a gratuitous gift conferred by the Blessed Trinity without regard to the
theandric merits of Jesus Christ, whereas the gratia Christi is based entirely on those merits.

b) The Scotists hold that the distinction between gratia Dei and gratia Christi is purely logical.
They regard the God-man as the predestined centre of the universe and the source of all graces.(15)
The Thomists, on the other hand, regard the grace of the angels, and that wherewith our first
parents were endowed in Paradise, purely as gratia Dei; they hold that the merits of Christ
did not become operative until after the Fall, and that, consequently, there is a real distinction
between the grace of the angels and that of our first parents on the one hand, and the grace
of Christ on the other.

As it cannot reasonably be supposed that the angels are endowed with specifically the same
graces by which mankind was redeemed from sin, the Scotists are forced to admit a distinction
between the grace of Christ as God-man (gratia Christi Dei-hominis) and the grace of Christ
as Redeemer (gratia Christi Redemptoris), so that even according to them, the dogmatic treatise
on Grace is concerned solely with the grace of Christ qua Redeemer.

Hence, grace must be more particularly defined as a gratuitous supernatural gift derived from
the merits of Jesus Christ.(16)

4. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL GRACE.—External grace (gratia externa) comprises all those strictly
supernatural institutions which stimulate pious thoughts and salutary resolutions in the human
soul. Such are, for example, Holy Scripture, the Church, the Sacraments, the example of Jesus
Christ, etc. Internal grace (gratia interna) inheres or operates invisibly in the soul, and
places it in relation with God as its supernatural end. Internal graces are, e.g., the theological
virtues, the power of forgiving sins, etc. The Pelagians admitted external, but obstinately
denied internal grace.(17)

St. Paul(18) emphasizes the distinction between external and internal grace by designating
the former as “law” (lex, νόμος) and the latter as “faith” (fides, πίστις). With one exception,
(viz., the Hypostatic Union, which is the climax of all graces), external is inferior to, because
a mere preparation for, internal grace, which aims at sanctification. We are concerned in this
treatise solely with internal grace. Hence, proceeding a step further, we may define grace
as a gratuitous, supernatural, internal gift of God, derived from the merits of Jesus Christ.(19)

5. “GRATIA GRATIS DATA” and “GRATIA GRATUM FACIENS.”—The supernatural grace of Christ, existing
invisibly in the soul either as a transient impulse (actus) or as a permanent state (habitus),
tends either to the salvation of the person in whom it inheres or through him to the sanctification
of others. In the former case it is called ingratiating (gratia gratum faciens), in the latter,
gratuitously given (gratia gratis data). To the class of gratuitously bestowed graces belong
the charismata of the prophets and the ordinary powers of the priesthood.(21)

Each of these two species of internal grace may exist independently of the other because personal
holiness is not a necessary prerequisite for the exercise of the charismata or the power of
forgiving sins, etc.

b) Considered with regard to its intrinsic worth, the gratia gratum faciens is decidedly superior
to the gratia gratis data. Hence, since the gratia gratis data is treated elsewhere (Apologetics,
Mystic and Sacramental Theology), we must add another note to our definition: Grace is a gratuitous,
supernatural, internal gift, derived from the merits of Jesus Christ, by which man is rendered
pleasing in the sight of God.(25)

6. ACTUAL AND HABITUAL GRACE.—The gratia gratum faciens is given either for the performance
of a supernatural act or for the production of a permanent supernatural state (habitus). In
the latter case it is called habitual, or, as it sanctifies the creature in the eyes of God,
sanctifying grace.

Actual grace comprises two essential elements: (1) divine help as the principle of every salutary
supernatural act, and (2) the salutary act itself. Hence its designation by the Fathers as
Θεοῦ ἐνέργεια, ἡ τοῦ Λόγου χείρ, θεία κίνησις, or, in Latin, Dei auxilium, subsidium, adiutorium,
motio divina,—all of which appellations have been adopted by the Schoolmen. Actual grace invariably
tends either to produce habitual or sanctifying grace, or to preserve and increase it where
it already exists. It follows that, being merely a means to an end, actual grace is inferior
to sanctifying grace, which is that end itself.

    Actual grace may therefore be defined as an unmerited,
    supernatural, internal divine help, based on the merits of Jesus
    Christ, which renders man pleasing in the sight of God, enabling
    him to perform salutary acts; or, somewhat more succinctly, as a
    supernatural help bestowed for the performance of salutary acts,
    in consideration of the merits of Jesus Christ.

Actual grace is (1) a help (auxilium), because it consists in a transient influence exercised
by God on the soul. (2) A supernatural help, to distinguish it from God’s ordinary providence
and all such merely natural graces as man would probably have received in the state of pure
nature.(26) (3) It is attributed to the merits of Jesus Christ, in order to indicate that the
graces granted to fallen man are all derived from the atonement both as their efficient and
their meritorious cause. (4) Actual grace is said to be given for the performance of salutary
acts to show that its immediate purpose or end is an act, not a state, and that the acts for
which it is given must be in the order of salvation.

7. THE TWOFOLD CAUSALITY OF ACTUAL GRACE.—If grace is a supernatural help, mere nature cannot,
of its own strength, perform salutary acts. Consequently, actual grace exercises a causal influence
without which man would be helpless in the matter of salvation.

The causality of actual grace is both moral and physical.

a) As a moral cause grace removes the obstacles which render the work of salvation difficult.
Besides this negative it also has a positive effect: it inspires delight in virtue and hatred
of sin.

This mode of operation manifestly presupposes a certain weakness of the human will, i.e. concupiscence,
which is an effect of original sin. Actual grace exercises a healing influence on the will(27)
and is therefore called gratia sanans sive medicinalis. “Unless something is put before the
soul to please and attract it,” says St. Augustine, “the will can in no wise be moved; but
it is not in man’s power to bring this about.”(28) Concretely, this moral causality of grace
manifests itself as a divinely inspired joy in virtue and a hatred of sin, both of which incline
the will to the free performance of salutary acts. These sentiments may in some cases be so
strong as to deprive the will temporarily of its freedom to resist. The sudden conversion of
St. Paul is a case in point. Holy Scripture expressly assures us that God is the absolute master
of the human will and, if He so chooses, can bend it under His yoke without using physical
force. Cfr. Prov. XXI, 1: “The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord: whithersoever
he will, he shall turn it.” “Who will be so foolish as to say,” queries St. Augustine, “that
God cannot change the evil wills of men, whichever, whenever, and wheresoever He chooses, and
direct them to what is good?”(29) It is but rarely, of course, that God grants to any man a
summary victory over his sinful nature; but this fact does not prevent the Church from praying:
“Vouchsafe, O Lord, to compel our wills to thee, even though they be rebellious.”(30)

b) Even more important than the moral causality of grace is its physical causality. Man depends
entirely on God for the physical strength necessary to perform salutary works. Grace elevates
the faculties of the soul to the supernatural sphere, thereby enabling it to perform supernatural
acts.

Physical is as distinct from moral causality in the order of grace as in the order of nature.
The holding out of a beautiful toy will not enable a child to walk without support from its
elders. Moral causality is insufficient to enable a man to perform salutary acts. Grace (as
we shall show later) is absolutely, i.e. metaphysically, necessary for all salutary acts, whether
easy or difficult, and hence the incapacity of nature cannot be ascribed solely to weakness
and to the moral difficulty resulting from sin, but must be attributed mainly to physical impotence.
A bird without wings is not merely impeded but utterly unable to fly; similarly, man without
grace is not only handicapped but absolutely incapacitated for the work of salvation. Considered
under this aspect, actual grace is called gratia elevans, because it elevates man to the supernatural
state.(31)

This double causality of grace is well brought out in Perrone’s classic definition: “Gratia
actualis est gratuitum illud auxilium,(32) quod Deus(33) per Christi merita(34) homini lapso(35)
largitur, tum ut eius infirmitati consulat,(36) ... tum ut eum erigat ad statum supernaturalem
atque idoneum faciat ad actus supernaturales eliciendos,(37) ut iustificationem possit adipisci(38)
in eaque iam consecuta perseverare, donec perveniat ad vitam aeternam.”(39) In English: “Actual
grace is that unmerited interior assistance which God, by virtue of the merits of Christ, confers
upon fallen man, in order, on the one hand, to remedy his infirmity resulting from sin and,
on the other, to raise him to the supernatural order and thereby to render him capable of performing
supernatural acts, so that he may attain justification, persevere in it to the end, and thus
enter into everlasting life.” This definition is strictly scientific, for it enumerates all
the elements that enter into the essence of actual grace.

Section 2. Division Of Actual Grace

Actual grace may be divided according to: (1) the difference existing between the faculties
of the human soul, and (2) in reference to the freedom of the will.

Considered in its relation to the different faculties of the soul, actual grace is either of
the intellect, or of the will, or of the sensitive faculties. With regard to the free consent
of the will, it is either (1) prevenient, also called coöperating, or (2) efficacious or merely
sufficient.

1. THE ILLUMINATING GRACE OF THE INTELLECT.—Actual grace, in so far as it inspires salutary
thoughts, is called illuminating (gratia illuminationis s. illustrationis).

This illumination of the intellect by grace may be either mediate or immediate. It is mediate
if grace suggests salutary thoughts to the intellect by purely natural means, or external graces,
such as a stirring sermon, the perusal of a good book, etc.; it is immediate when the Holy
Ghost elevates the powers of the soul, and through the instrumentality of the so-called potentia
obedientialis,(40) produces in it entitatively supernatural acts.

The existence of the grace of immediate illumination follows from its absolute necessity as
a means of salvation, defined by the Second Council of Orange, A. D. 529.(41)

a) The grace of mediate illumination may be inferred aprioristically from the existence of
a divine revelation equipped with such supernatural institutions as the Bible, the sacraments,
rites, ceremonies, etc. In conformity with the psychological laws governing the association
of ideas, intelligent meditation on the agencies comprised under the term “external grace”(42)
elicits in the mind salutary thoughts, which are not necessarily supernatural in their inception.

It is not unlikely that Sacred Scripture refers to such graces as these when it recommends
“the law of God” or “the example of Christ” as fit subjects for meditation. Cfr. Ps. Speaking
in the plural (pluralis maiestaticus), the Apostle confesses himself unable to conceive a single
salutary thought (λογίσασθαι), and ascribes the power (ἱκανότης) to do so to God. Considered
merely as vital acts, such thoughts proceed from the natural faculties of the mind (ἀφ᾽ ἑαυτῶν),
but the power that produces them is divine (ἐκ Θεοῦ), not human (ἐξ ἑαυτῶν). Hence each salutary
thought exceeds the power of man, and is an immediate supernatural grace. But, as St. Paul
says, this preaching would have been useless (non est aliquid) had not God given “the increase.”
In other words, the grace of immediate illumination was necessary to make the Apostolic preaching
effective. “For,” in the words of St. Augustine, “God Himself contributes to the production
of fruit in good trees, when He both externally waters and tends them by the agency of His
servants, and internally by Himself also gives the increase.”(48)

β) The argument from Tradition is based chiefly on St. Augustine, “the Doctor of Grace,” whose
authority in this branch of dogmatic theology is unique.(49) His writings abound in many such
synonymous terms for the grace of immediate illumination, as cogitatio pia, vocatio alta et
secreta, locutio in cogitatione, aperitio veritatis, etc., etc.

He says among other things: “Instruction and admonition are external aids, but he who controls
the hearts has his cathedra in heaven.”(50) Augustine esteems human preaching as nothing and
ascribes all its good effects to grace. “It is the internal Master who teaches; Christ teaches
and His inspiration.”(51) In harmony with his master, St. Fulgentius of Ruspe, the ablest defender
of the Augustinian (i.e. Catholic) doctrine of grace, says: “In vain will our sacred discourses
strike the external ear, unless God by a spiritual gift opens the hearing of the interior man.”(52)

2. THE STRENGTHENING GRACE OF THE WILL.—This grace, usually called gratia inspirationis,(53)
may also be either mediate or immediate, according as pious affections and wholesome resolutions
are produced in the soul by a preceding illumination of the intellect or directly by the Holy
Ghost. Owing to the psychological interaction of intellect and will, every grace of the mind,
whether mediate or immediate, is eo ipso also a mediate grace of the will, which implies a
new act of the soul, but not a new grace. What we are concerned with here is the immediate
strengthening grace of the will, which is far more important and more necessary.

We are not able to demonstrate this teaching from Sacred Scripture. The texts John VI, 44 and
Phil. II, 13, which are usually adduced in this connection, are inconclusive.

Hence we must rely solely on Tradition. The argument from Tradition is based mainly on St.
Augustine. In defending divine grace against Pelagius, this holy Doctor asserts the indispensability
and superior value of the strengthening grace of the will.

“By that grace it is effected, not only that we discover what ought to be done, but also that
we do what we have discovered; not only that we believe what ought to be loved, but also that
we love what we have believed.”(54) And again: “Let him discern between knowledge and charity,
as they ought to be distinguished, because knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.... And
inasmuch as both are gifts of God, although one is less and the other greater, he must not
extol our righteousness above the praise which is due to Him who justifies us in such a way
as to assign to the lesser of these two gifts the help of divine grace, and to claim the greater
one for the control of the human will.”(55) St. Augustine emphasized the existence and necessity
of this higher grace of the will in his controversy with the Pelagians. He was firmly convinced
that a man may know the way of salvation, and yet refuse to follow it.(56) He insisted that
mere knowledge is not virtue, as Socrates had falsely taught.

Ecclesiastical Tradition was always in perfect accord with this teaching, which eventually
came to be defined by the plenary Council of Carthage (A. D. 418) as follows: “If any one assert
that this same grace of God, granted through our Lord Jesus Christ, helps to avoid sin only
for the reason that it opens and reveals to us an understanding of the [divine] commands, so
that we may know what we should desire and what we should avoid; but that it is not granted
to us by the same (grace) to desire and be able to do that which we know we ought to do, let
him be anathema;—since both are gifts of God: to know what we must do and to have the wish
to do it.”(57)

Like the illuminating grace of the intellect the strengthening grace of the will effects vital
acts and manifests itself chiefly in what are known as the emotions of the will. St. Prosper,
after Fulgentius the most prominent disciple of St. Augustine, enumerates these as follows:
“Fear (for ‘the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom’); joy (‘I rejoiced at the things
that were said to me: We shall go into the house of the Lord’); desire (‘My soul longeth and
fainteth for the courts of the Lord’); delight (‘How sweet are thy words to my palate, more
than honey to my mouth’);”—and he adds: “Who can see or tell by what affections God visits
and guides the human soul?”(58)

3. ACTUAL GRACES OF THE SENSITIVE SPHERE.—Though it cannot be determined with certainty of
faith, it is highly probable that actual grace influences the sensitive faculties of the soul
as well as the intellect and the will.

God, who is the first and sole cause of all things, is no doubt able to excite in the human
imagination phantasms corresponding to the supernatural thoughts produced in the intellect,
and to impede or paralyze the rebellious stirrings of concupiscence which resist the grace
of the will,—either by infusing contrary dispositions or by allowing spiritual joy to run over
into the appetitus sensitivus. The existence of such graces (which need not necessarily be
supernatural except quoad modum et finem) may be inferred with great probability from the fact
that man is a compound of body and soul. Aristotle holds that the human mind cannot think without
the aid of the imagination.(59) If this is true, every supernatural thought must be preceded
by a corresponding phantasm to excite and sustain it. As for the sensitive appetite, it may
either assume the form of concupiscence and hinder the work of salvation, or aid it by favorable
emotions excited supernaturally. St. Augustine says that the delectatio victrix has for its
object “to impart sweetness to that which gave no pleasure.”(60) St. Paul, who thrice besought
the Lord to relieve him of the sting of his flesh, was told: “My grace is sufficient for thee.”(61)

4. The Illuminating Grace of the Mind and the Strengthening Grace of the Will Considered as
Vital Acts of the Soul.—If we examine these graces more closely to determine their physical
nature, we find that they are simply vital acts of the intellect and the will, and receive
the character of divine “graces” from the fact that they are supernaturally excited in the
soul by God.

a) The Biblical, Patristic, and conciliar terms cogitatio, suasio, scientia, cognitio, as well
as delectatio, voluptas, desiderium, caritas, bona voluntas, cupiditas, all manifestly point
to vital acts of the soul. But even where grace is described as vocatio, illuminatio, illustratio,
excitatio, pulsatio, inspiratio, or tractio, the reference can only be—if not formaliter, at
least virtualiter—to immanent vital acts of the intellect or will. This is the concurrent teaching
of SS. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas. The former says: “God calls [us] by [our] innermost thoughts,”
and: “See how the Father draws [and] by teaching delights [us].”(62) The latter quotes the
Aristotelian axiom: “Actus moventis in moto est motus.”(63)

If the graces of the intellect and of the will are supernaturally inspired acts of the soul,
by what process does the mind of man respond to the impulse of illumination and inspiration?

The language employed by the Fathers and councils leaves no doubt that supernatural knowledge
manifests itself mainly in judgments. But simple apprehension and ratiocination must also play
a part, (1) because these two operations are of the essence of human thought, and the grace
of illumination always works through natural agencies; and (2) because some intellectual apprehensions
are merely condensed judgments and syllogisms.

The graces of the will naturally work through the spiritual emotions or passions, of which
there are eleven: love and hatred, joy and sadness, desire and abhorrence, hope and despair,
fear and daring, and lastly anger. With the exception of despair (for which there is no place
in the business of salvation), all these passions have a practical relation to good and evil
and are consequently called “graces” both in Scripture and Tradition. Love (amor) is the fundamental
affection of the will, to which all others are reducible, and hence the principal function
of grace, in so far as it affects the will, must consist in producing acts of love.(64) The
Council of Carthage (A. D. 418) declares that “both to know what we must do, and to love to
do it, is a gift of God.”(65) It would be a mistake, however, to identify this “love” with
theological charity, which is “a perfect love of God above all things for His own sake.”(66)
Justification begins with supernatural faith, is followed by fear, hope, and contrition, and
culminates in charity.(67)

St. Augustine sometimes employs the word caritas in connections where it cannot possibly mean
theological love.(68) This peculiar usage is based on the idea that love of goodness in a certain
way attracts man towards God and prepares him for the theological virtue of charity. In studying
the writings of St. Augustine, therefore, we must carefully distinguish between caritas in
the strict, and caritas in a secondary and derived sense.(69) The champions of the falsely
so-called Augustinian theory of grace(70) disregard this important distinction and erroneously
claim that St. Augustine identifies “grace” with caritas in the sense of theological love;
just as if faith, hope, contrition, and the fear of God were not also graces in the true meaning
of the term, and could not exist without theological charity.

b) Not a few theologians, especially of the Thomist school, enlarge the list of actual graces
by including therein, besides the supernatural vital acts of the soul, certain extrinsic, non-vital
qualities (qualitates fluentes, non vitales) that precede these acts and form their basis.
It is impossible, they argue, to elicit vital or immanent supernatural acts unless the faculties
of the soul have previously been raised to the supernatural order by means of the potentia
obœdientialis. The gratia elevans, which produces in the soul of the sinner the same effects
that the so-called infused habits produce in the soul of the just, is a supernatural power
really distinct from its vital effects. In other words, they say, the vital supernatural acts
of the soul are preceded and produced by a non-vital grace, which must be conceived as a “fluent
quality.” These “fluent” (the opponents of the theory ironically call them “dead”) qualities
are alleged to be real graces.(71) Alvarez and others endeavor to give their theory a dogmatic
standing by quoting in its support all those passages of Sacred Scripture, the Fathers and
councils in which prevenient grace is described as pulsatio, excitatio, vocatio, tractio, tactus,
and so forth. The act of knocking or calling, they say, is not identical with the act of opening,
in fact the former is a grace in a higher sense than the latter, because it is performed by
God alone, while the response comes from the soul coöperating with God.(72)

The theory thus briefly described is both theologically and philosophically untenable.

α) Holy Scripture and Tradition nowhere mention any such non-vital entities or qualities,—a
circumstance which would be inexplicable if it were true, what Cardinal Gotti asserts,(73)
that the term “grace” applies primarily and in the strict sense to these qualities, while the
vital acts are merely effects. Whenever Sacred Scripture, the Fathers, and the Church speak
literally, without the use of metaphors, they invariably apply the term “grace” to these vital
acts themselves and ascribe their supernatural character to an immediate act of God.(74) In
perfect conformity with this teaching St. Augustine explains such metaphorical terms as vocare
and tangere in the sense of credere and fides.(75) God employs no “fluent qualities” or “non-vital
entities” in the dispensation of His grace, but effects the supernatural elevation of the soul
immediately and by Himself.(76)

β) The theory under consideration is inadmissible also from the philosophical point of view.
A quality does not “flow” or tend to revert to nothingness. On the contrary, its very nature
demands that it remain constant until destroyed by its opposite or by some positive cause.
It is impossible to conceive a quality that would of itself revert to nothingness without the
intervention of a destructive cause. Billuart merely beats the air when he says: “Potest dici
qualitas incompleta habens se per modum passionis transeuntis.”(77) What would Aristotle have
said if he had been told of a thing that was half ποιόν and half πάσχειν, and consequently
neither the one nor the other? Actual grace is transitory; it passes away with the act which
it inspires, and consequently may be said to “flow.” But this very fact proves that it is not
a dead quality, but a modus vitalis supernaturalis. In the dispensation of His grace, God employs
no fluent qualities or non-vital entities, but He Himself is the immediate cause of the supernatural
elevation of the human soul and its faculties. St. Thomas is perfectly consistent, therefore,
when he defines actual grace as a vital act of the soul.(78)

5. PREVENIENT AND COÖPERATING GRACE.—The vital acts of the soul are either spontaneous impulses
or free acts of the will. Grace may precede free-will or coöperate with it. If it precedes
the free determination of the will it is called prevenient; if it accompanies (or coincides
with) that determination and merely coöperates with the will, it is called coöperating grace.

Prevenient grace, regarded as a divine call to penance, is often styled gratia vocans sive
excitans, and if it is received with a willing heart, gratia adiuvans. Both species are distinctly
mentioned in Holy Scripture. Cfr. Eph. V, 14: “Wherefore he saith: Rise thou that sleepest,
and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee.” 2 Tim. VIII, 26: “Likewise the Spirit
also helpeth our infirmity.” Rom. VIII, 30: “And whom he predestinated, them he also called.
And whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified.”
Apoc. III, 20: “Behold I stand at the gate and knock. If any man shall hear my voice, and open
to me the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.”

St. Augustine says: “Forasmuch as our turning away from God is our own act and deed, and this
is [our] depraved will; but that we turn to God, this we cannot do except He rouse and help
us, and this is [our] good will,—what have we that we have not received?”(79)

An equivalent division is that into gratia operans and coöperans, respectively—names which
are also founded on Scripture. Cfr. Phil. It is likewise distinctly Scriptural,(81) and its
two members coincide materially with gratia vocans and adiuvans, as can be seen by comparing
the usage of St. Augustine with that of the Tridentine Council. “God’s mercy,” says the holy
Doctor, “prevents [i.e. precedes] the unwilling to make him willing; it follows the willing
lest he will in vain.”(82) And the Council of Trent declares that “in adults the beginning
of justification is to be derived from the prevenient grace of God, through Jesus Christ, that
is to say, from His vocation, whereby, without any merits existing on their part, they are
called.”(83)

If we conceive a continuous series of supernatural graces, each may be called either prevenient
or subsequent, according as it is regarded either as a cause or as an effect. St. Thomas explains
this as follows: “As grace is divided into working and coöperating grace, according to its
diverse effects, so it may also be divided into prevenient and subsequent grace, according
to the meaning attached to the term grace [i.e., either habitual or actual]. The effects which
grace works in us are five: (1) It heals the soul; (2) moves it to will that which is good;
(3) enables man efficaciously to perform the good deeds which he wills; (4) helps him to persevere
in his good resolves; and (5) assists him in attaining to the state of glory. In so far as
it produces the first of these effects, grace is called prevenient in respect of the second;
and in so far as it produces the second, it is called subsequent in respect of the first. And
as each effect is posterior to one and prior to another, so grace may be called prevenient
or subsequent according as we regard it in its relations to different effects.”(84)

Among so many prevenient graces there must be one which is preceded by none other (simpliciter
praeveniens), and this is preëminently the gratia vocans s. excitans.

There is a fourth and last division, mentioned by the Council of Trent, which is also based
on the relation of grace to free-will. “Jesus Christ Himself,” says the holy Synod, “continually
infuses His virtue into the justified, and this virtue always precedes, accompanies, and follows
their good works.”(85) The opposition here lies between gratia antecedens, which is a spontaneous
movement of the soul, and gratia concomitans, which coöperates with free-will after it has
given its consent. This terminology may be applied to the good works of sinners and saints
alike. For the sinner no less than the just man receives two different kinds of graces—(1)
such as precede the free determination of the will and (2) such as accompany his free acts.

Thus it can be readily seen that the fundamental division of actual grace, considered in its
relation to free-will, is that into prevenient and coöperating grace. All other divisions are
based on a difference of function rather than of nature.(86)

a) The existence of prevenient grace (gratia praeveniens s. excitans s. vocans) may be inferred
from the fact that the process of justification begins with the illumination of the intellect,
which is by nature unfree, i.e. devoid of the power of choosing between good and evil. That
there are also graces which consist in spontaneous, indeliberate motions of the will,(87) is
clearly taught by the Council of Trent,(88) and evidenced by certain Biblical metaphors. Thus
God is described as knocking at the gate (Apoc. III, 20), as drawing men to Him (John VI, 44),
and men are said to harden their hearts against His voice (Ps. XCIV, 8), etc. Cfr. Jer. XVII,
23: “But they did not hear, nor incline their ear: but hardened their neck, that they might
not hear me, and might not receive instruction.”

The Catholic tradition is voiced by St. Augustine, who says: “The will itself can in no wise
be moved, unless it meets with something which delights or attracts the mind; but it is not
in the power of man to bring this about.”(89) St. Prosper enumerates a long list of spontaneous
emotions which he calls supernatural graces of the will.(90)

Prevenient grace is aptly characterized by the Patristic formula: “Gratia est in nobis, sed
sine nobis,” that is, grace, as a vital act, is in the soul, but as a salutary act it proceeds,
not from the free will, but from God. In other words, though the salutary acts of grace derive
their vitality from the human will, they are mere actus hominis (θέλησις), not actus humani
(βούλησις).(91) “God,” explains St. Augustine, “does many good things in man, which man does
not do; but man does none which God does not cause man to do.”(92) And again: “[God] operates
without us, in order that we may become willing; but when we once will so as to act, He coöperates
with us. We can, however, ourselves do nothing to effect good works of piety without Him either
working that we may will, or coöperating when we will.”(93) St. Bernard employs similar language.(94)

b) Coöperating grace (gratia cooperans s. adiuvans s. subsequens) differs from prevenient grace
in this, that it supposes a deliberate act of consent on the part of the will (βούλησις, not
θέλησις). St. Gregory the Great tersely explains the distinction as follows: “The divine goodness
first effects something in us without our coöperation [gratia praeveniens], and then, as the
will freely consents, coöperates with us in performing the good which we desire [gratia cooperans].”(95)
That such free and consequently meritorious acts are attributable to grace is emphasized by
the Tridentine Council: “So great is the bounty [of God] towards all men that He will have
the things which are His own gifts to be their merits.”(96) Such free salutary acts are not
only graces in the general sense, but real actual graces, in as far as they produce other salutary
acts, and their existence is as certain as the fact that many men freely follow the call of
grace, work out their salvation, and attain to the beatific vision. It is only in this way,
in fact, that Heaven is peopled with Saints.

α) St. Augustine embodies all these considerations in the following passage: “It is certain
that we keep the commandments when we will; but because the will is prepared by the Lord, we
must ask of Him that we may will so much as is sufficient to make us act in willing. It is
certain that we will whenever we like, but it is He who makes us will what is good, of whom
it is said (Prov. VIII, 35): ‘The will is prepared by the Lord,’ and of whom it is said (Ps.
XXXVI, 32): ‘The steps of a [good] man are ordered by the Lord, and his way doth He will,’
and of whom it is said (Phil. II, 13): ‘It is God who worketh in you, even to will.’ It is
certain that we act whenever we set to work; but it is He who causes us to act, by giving thoroughly
efficacious powers to our will, who has said (Ezech. XXXVI, 27): ‘I will cause you to walk
in my commandments, and to keep my judgments, and do them.’ When He says: ‘I will cause you
... to do them,’ what else does He say in fact than (Ezech. XI, 19): ‘I will take away the
stony heart out of their flesh,’ from which used to rise your inability to act, and (Ezech.
XXXVI, 26): ‘I will give you a heart of flesh,’ in order that you may act.”(97)

β) The manner in which grace and free-will coöperate is a profound philosophical and theological
problem. A salutary act derives its supernatural character from God, its vitality from the
human will. How do these two factors conjointly produce one and the same act? The unity of
the act would be destroyed if God and the free-will of man in each case performed, either two
separate acts, or each half of the same act. To preserve the unity of a supernatural act two
conditions are required: (1) the divine power of grace must be transformed into the vital strength
of the will and (2) the created will, which by its own power can perform at most a naturally
good act, must be equipped with the supernatural power of grace. These conditions are met (a)
by the supernatural elevation of the will (elevatio externa), and (b) by the supernatural concurrence
of God (concursus supernaturalis ad actum secundum). The supernatural elevation of the will
is accomplished in this wise: God, by employing the illuminating and strengthening grace, works
on the potentia obœdientialis, and thus raises the will above its purely natural powers and
constitutes it a supernatural faculty in actu primo for the free performance of a salutary
act. The divine concursus supervenes to enable the will to perform the actus secundus or salutary
act proper. This special divine concurrence, in contradistinction to the natural concursus
whereby God supports the created universe,(98) is a strictly supernatural and gratuitous gift.
Consequently, God and the human will jointly perform one and the same salutary act—God as the
principal, the will as the instrumental cause.(99)

6. EFFICACIOUS GRACE AND MERELY SUFFICIENT GRACE.—By efficacious grace (gratia efficax) we
understand that divine assistance which with infallible certainty includes the free salutary
act. Whether the certainty of its operation results from the physical nature of this particular
grace, or from God’s infallible foreknowledge (scientia media), is a question in dispute between
Thomists and Molinists.(100)

Merely sufficient grace (gratia mere sufficiens) is that divine assistance whereby God communicates
to the human will full power to perform a salutary act (posse) but not the action itself (agere).

The division of grace into efficacious and merely sufficient is not identical with that into
prevenient and coöperating. Coöperating grace does not ex vi notionis include with infallible
certainty the salutary act. It may indeed be efficacious, but in matter of fact frequently
fails to attain its object because the will offers resistance.

a) The existence of efficacious graces is as certain as that there is a Heaven filled with
Saints. God would be neither omnipotent nor infinitely wise if all His graces were frustrated
by the free-will of man. St. Augustine repeatedly expresses his belief in the existence of
efficacious graces. Thus he writes in his treatise on Grace and Free-Will: “It is certain that
we act whenever we set to work; but it is He [God] who causes us to act, by giving thoroughly
efficacious powers to the will.”(101) And in another treatise: “[Adam] had received the ability
(posse) if he would [gratia sufficiens], but he had not the will to exercise that ability [gratia
efficax]; for if he had possessed that will, he would have persevered.”(102)

b) Before demonstrating the existence of sufficient grace it is necessary, in view of certain
heretical errors, carefully to define the term.

α) Actual grace may be regarded either in its intrinsic energy or power (virtus, potestas agendi)
or in its extrinsic efficacy (efficientia, efficacitas). All graces are efficacious considered
in their intrinsic energy, because all confer the physical and moral power necessary to perform
the salutary act for the sake of which they are bestowed. From this point of view, therefore,
and in actu primo, there is no real but a purely logical distinction between efficacious and
merely sufficient grace. If we look to the final result, however, we find that this differs
according as the will either freely coöperates with grace or refuses its coöperation. If the
will coöperates, grace becomes truly efficacious; if the will resists, grace remains “merely
sufficient.” In other words, merely sufficient grace confers full power to act, but is rendered
ineffective by the resistance of the will.

The inefficacy of merely sufficient grace, therefore, is owing to the resistance of the will
and not to any lack of intrinsic power. This is a truth to which all Catholic systems of grace
must conform.

Merely sufficient grace may be subdivided into gratia proxime sufficiens and gratia remote
sufficiens.

Proximately sufficient grace (also called gratia operationis) confers upon the will full power
to act forthwith, while remotely sufficient grace (also termed gratia orationis) confers only
the grace of prayer, which in its turn brings down full power to perform other salutary acts.

The gratia orationis plays a most important rôle in the divine economy of grace. God has not
obliged Himself to give man immediately all the graces he needs. It is His will, in many instances,
as when we are besieged by temptations, that we petition Him for further assistance. “God does
not enjoin impossibilities,” says St. Augustine, “but in His injunctions He counsels you both
to do what you can for yourself, and to ask His aid in what you cannot do.”(103)

Hence, though grace may sometimes remain ineffective (gratia inefficax = gratia vere et mere
sufficiens), it is never insufficient (insufficiens), that is to say, never too weak to accomplish
its purpose.

Calvinism and Jansenism, while retaining the name, have eliminated sufficient grace from their
doctrinal systems.

Jansenius (+ 1638) admits a kind of “sufficient grace,” which he calls gratia parva, but it
is really insufficient because no action can result from it unless it is supplemented by another
and more powerful grace.(104) This heretic denounced sufficient grace in the Catholic sense
as a monstrous conception and a means of peopling hell with reprobates.(105) Some of his followers
even went so far as to assert that “in our present state sufficient grace is pernicious rather
than useful to us, and we have reason to pray: From sufficient grace, O Lord, deliver us!”(106)

β) It is an article of faith that there is a merely sufficient grace and that it is truly sufficient
even when frustrated by the resistance of the will. The last-mentioned point is emphasized
by the Second Council of Orange (A. D. 529): “This also we believe, according to the Catholic
faith, that all baptized persons, through the grace received in Baptism, and with the help
and coöperation of Christ, are able and in duty bound, if they will faithfully do their share,
to comply with all the conditions necessary for salvation.”(107) The existence of sufficient
grace was formally defined by the Council of Trent as follows: “If any one saith that man’s
free-will, moved and excited by God, ... no wise coöperates towards disposing and preparing
itself for obtaining the grace of justification; that it cannot refuse its consent if it would,
... let him be anathema.”(108)

This dogma can be convincingly demonstrated both from Sacred Scripture and Tradition.

(1) God Himself complains through the mouth of the prophet Isaias: “What is there that I ought
to do more to my vineyard, that I have not done to it? Was it that I looked that it should
bring forth grapes, and it hath brought forth wild grapes?”(109) This complaint clearly applies
to the Jews. Yahweh did for the Jewish nation whatever it behooved Him to do lavishly (gratia
vere sufficiens), but His kindness was unrequited (gratia mere sufficiens). In the Book of
Proverbs He addresses the sinner in these terms: “I called, and you refused: I stretched out
my hand, and there was none that regarded.”(110) What does this signify if not the complete
sufficiency of grace? The proffered grace remained inefficacious simply because the sinner
rejected it of his own free will. Upbraiding the wicked cities of Corozain and Bethsaida, our
Lord exclaims: “If in Tyre and Sidon had been wrought the miracles that have been wrought in
you, they had long ago done penance in sackcloth and ashes.”(111) The omniscient God-man here
asserts the existence of graces which remained inefficacious in Corozain and Bethsaida, though
had they been given to the inhabitants of Tyre and Sidon, they would have proved effective.
The conclusion evidently is: these graces remained ineffective, not because they were unequal
to the purpose for which they were conferred, but simply and solely because they were rejected
by those whom God intended to benefit.(112)

(2) Though they did not employ the name, the Fathers were thoroughly familiar with the notion
of sufficient grace.

Thus St. Irenaeus comments on our Lord’s lamentation over the fate of the Holy City: “When
He says: (Matth. XXIII, 37): ‘How often would I have gathered together thy children, ... and
thou wouldest not,’ He manifests the ancient liberty of man, because God hath made him free
from the beginning.... For God does not employ force, but always has a good intention. And
for this reason He gives good counsel to all.... And those who do it [gratia efficax] will
receive glory and honor, because they have done good, though they were free not to do it; but
those who do not do good will experience the just judgment of God, because they have not done
good [gratia inefficax], though they were able to do it [gratia vere et mere sufficiens].”(113)
St. Augustine is in perfect agreement with ecclesiastical tradition, and the Jansenists had
no right whatever to claim him for their teaching. “The grace of God,” he expressly says in
one place, “assists the will of men. If in any case men are not assisted by it, the reason
lies with themselves, not God.”(114) And again: “No one is guilty because he has not received;
but he who does not do what he ought to do, is truly guilty. 110, art. 1; qu. 111, art. 1-5.—J.
Scheeben, Natur und Gnade, Mainz 1861.—M. Glossner, Lehre des hl. Thomas vom Wesen der Gnade,
Mainz 1871.—Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 1-16, Gulpen 1885.—Oswald, Die Lehre
von der Heiligung, 3rd ed., § 1-3, Paderborn 1885.—S. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, disp. 1,
sect. 2; disp. 3, sect. 1-5, Freiburg 1901.—Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol.
VIII, pp. 3 sqq., Mainz 1897.—B. J. Otten, S. J., A Manual of the History of Dogmas, Vol. II,
St. Louis 1918, pp. 234 sqq.

Chapter II. The Properties Of Actual Grace

Actual grace has three essential properties: (1) necessity, (2) gratuity, and (3) universality.
The most important of these is necessity.

Section 1. The Necessity Of Actual Grace

In treating of the necessity of actual grace we must avoid two extremes. The first is that
mere nature is absolutely incapable of doing any thing good. This error was held by the early
Protestants and the followers of Baius and Jansenius. The second is that nature is able to
perform supernatural acts by its own power. This was taught by the Pelagians and Semipelagians.

Between these two extremes Catholic theology keeps the golden mean. It defends the capacity
of human nature against Protestants and Jansenists, and upholds its incapacity and impotence
against Pelagians and Semipelagians. Thus our present Section naturally falls into three Articles.

Article 1. The Capacity Of Mere Nature Without Grace

The capacity of nature in its own domain may be considered with regard either to the intellect
or to the will.

*Thesis I: Man is capable by the natural power of his intellect to arrive at a knowledge of
God from a consideration of the physical universe.*

This proposition embodies an article of faith defined by the Vatican Council: “If any one shall
say that the one true God, our Creator and Lord, cannot be certainly known by the natural light
of human reason through created things, let him be anathema.”(116)

For a formal demonstration of this truth we must refer the reader to our treatise on God: His
Knowability, Essence, and Attributes, pp. 17 sqq. The argument there given may be supplemented
by the following considerations:

1. “It is to be ascribed to this divine Revelation,” says the Vatican Council, “that such truths
among things divine as are not of themselves beyond human reason, can, even in the present
state of mankind, be known by every one with facility and firm assurance, and without admixture
of error.”(130) In conformity with the teaching of Revelation and Tradition, the Church has
always sharply distinguished between πίστις and γνῶσις,—faith and knowledge, revelation and
philosophy,—assigning to reason the double rôle of an indispensable forerunner and a docile
handmaid of faith. Far from antagonizing reason, as charged by her enemies, the Church has
on the contrary always valiantly championed its rights against Scepticism, Positivism, Criticism,
Traditionalism, Rationalism, Pantheism, and Modernism.(131)

2. As regards those purely natural truths that constitute the domain of science and art, Catholic
divines are practically unanimous(132) in holding that, though man possesses the physical ability
of knowing every single one of these truths, even the most highly gifted cannot master them
all. Cardinal Mezzofanti had acquired a knowledge of many languages,(133) and undoubtedly was
capable of learning many more; yet without a special grace he could not have learned all the
languages spoken on earth, though their number is by no means infinite. The science of mathematics,
which embraces but a limited field of knowledge, comprises an indefinite number of propositions
and problems which even the greatest genius can not master. Add to these impediments the shortness
of human life, the limitations of the intellect, the multitude and intricacy of scientific
methods, the inaccessibility of many objects which are in themselves knowable, (e.g. the interior
of the earth, the stellar universe)—and you have a host of limitations which make it physically
impossible for the mind of man to encompass the realm of natural truths.(134)

*Thesis II: Fallen man, whether pagan or sinner, is able to perform some naturally good works
without the aid of grace.*

This thesis may be technically qualified as propositio certa.

Proof. A man performing moral acts may be either in a state of unbelief, or of mortal sin,
or of sanctifying grace. The question here at issue is chiefly whether all the works of pagans,
that is all acts done without grace of any kind, are morally bad, or whether any purely natural
works may be good despite the absence of grace. Baius and Jansenius affirmed this; nay more,
they asserted that no man can perform good works unless he is in the state of grace and inspired
by a perfect love of God (caritas). If this were true, all the works of pagans and of such
Christians as have lost the faith, would be so many sins. But it is not true. The genuine teaching
of the Church may be gathered from her official condemnation of the twenty-fifth, the twenty-sixth,
and the thirty-seventh propositions of Baius. These propositions run as follows: “Without the
aid of God’s grace free-will hath power only to sin;”(135) “To admit that there is such a thing
as a natural good, i.e. one which originates solely in the powers of nature, is to share the
error of Pelagius;”(136) “All the actions of unbelievers are sins and the virtues of philosophers
vices.”(137) To these we may add the proposition condemned by Pope Alexander VIII, that “The
unbeliever necessarily sins in whatever he does.”(138)

1. Sacred Scripture and the Fathers, St. Augustine included, admit the possibility of performing
naturally good, though unmeritorious, works (opera steriliter bona) in the state of unbelief;
and their teaching is in perfect conformity with right reason.

a) Our Divine Lord Himself says:(139) “If you love them that love you, what reward(140) shall
you have? Do not even the publicans this? And if you salute(141) your brethren only, what do
you more? Do not also the heathens(142) this?” The meaning plainly is: To salute one’s neighbor
is an act of charity, a naturally good deed, common even among the heathens, and one which,
not being done from a supernatural motive, deserves no supernatural reward. But this does not
by any means imply that to salute one’s neighbor is sinful. That St. Paul did not think the
gentiles capable of observing the whole law without the aid of grace appears from his denunciation
of their folly, a little further up in the same Epistle: “Because that, when they knew God,
they have not glorified him as God, or given thanks; but became vain in their thoughts, and
their foolish heart was darkened, etc.,”(149) and also from the hypothetic form of Rom. II,
14 in the original Greek text: “Ὅταν γὰρ ἔθνη ... τὰ τοῦ νόμου ποιῶσιν—Si quando gentes, ...
quae legis sunt, faciunt.”(150)

In Rom. XIV, 23: “For all that is not faith is sin,”(151) a text often quoted against our thesis,
“faith” does not mean the theological habit of faith, but “conscience,”(152) as the context
clearly shows.(153)

b) The teaching of the Fathers is in substantial harmony with Sacred Scripture.

α) Thus St. Jerome, speaking of the reward which Yahweh gave to Nabuchodonosor for his services
against Tyre,(154) says: “The fact that Nabuchodonosor was rewarded for a good work shows that
even the gentiles in the judgment of God are not passed over without a reward when they have
performed a good deed.”(155) In his commentary on St. Paul’s Epistle to the Galatians the same
holy Doctor observes: “Many who are without the faith and have not the Gospel of Christ, yet
perform prudent and holy actions, e.g. by obeying their parents, succoring the needy, not oppressing
their neighbors, not taking away the possessions of others.”(156)

β) The teaching of St. Augustine offers some difficulties. There can be no doubt that this
Father freely admitted that pagans and infidels can perform naturally good works without faith
and grace. Thus he says there is no man so wicked that some good cannot be found in him.(157)
He extols the moderation of Polemo(158) and the purity of Alypius, who were both pagans.(159)
He admires the civic virtues of the ancient Romans,(160) etc. Holding such views, how could
Augustine write: “Neither doth free-will avail for anything except sin, if the way of truth
is hidden.”(161) And what did his disciple Prosper mean when he said: “The whole life of unbelievers
is a sin, and nothing is good without the highest good. For wherever there is no recognition
of the supreme and immutable truth, there can be no genuine virtue, even if the moral standard
be of the highest.”(162)

To understand these and similar passages rightly and to explain at the same time how it was
possible for Baius and Jansenius to bolster their heretical systems with quotations from the
writings of St. Augustine and his disciples, it is necessary to observe that the quondam rhetorician
and Platonic idealist of Hippo delights in applying to the genus the designation which belongs
to its highest species, and vice versa.(163) Thus, in speaking of liberty, he often means the
perfect liberty enjoyed by our first parents in Paradise;(164) in using the term “children
of God” he designates those who persevere in righteousness;(165) and in employing the phrase
“a good work” he means one supernaturally meritorious. Or, vice versa, he designates the slightest
good impulse of the will as “caritas,” as it were by anticipation, and brands every unmeritorious
work (opus informe s. sterile) as false virtue (falsa virtus), nay sin (peccatum). To interpret
St. Augustine correctly, therefore, allowance must be made for his peculiar idealism and a
careful distinction drawn between the real and the metaphorical sense of the terms which he
employs. Baius neglected this precaution and furthermore paid no attention to the controversial
attitude of the holy Doctor. Augustine’s peculiar task was not to maintain the possibility
of naturally good works without faith and grace, but to defend against Pelagius and Julian
the impossibility of performing supernaturally good and meritorious works without the aid of
grace. It is this essential difference in their respective points of view that explains how
St. Augustine and Baius were able to employ identical or similar terms to express radically
different ideas.(166)

c) It can easily be demonstrated on theological grounds that fallen man is able, of his own
initiative, i.e. without the aid of grace, to perform morally good works, and that Baius erred
in asserting that this is impossible without theological faith.

α) With regard to the first-mentioned point it will be well, for the sake of clearness, to
adopt Palmieri’s distinction between physical and moral capacity.(167) Man sins whenever he
transgresses the law or yields to temptation. This would be impossible if he were physically
unable to keep the whole law and resist temptation. Hence he must be physically able to do
that which he is obliged to do under pain of sin, though in this or that individual instance
the difficulties may be insuperable without the aid of grace. To put it somewhat differently:
Baius and Jansenius hold that fallen man can perform no morally good works because of physical
or moral impotence on the part of the will. This assumption is false. Man is physically able
to perform good works because they are enjoined by the moral law of nature under pain of sin;
he is morally able because, in spite of numerous evil tendencies, not a few gentiles and unbelievers
have led upright lives and thereby proved that man can perform good works without the aid of
grace.(168) This is also the teaching of St. Thomas.(169)

β) It is an expressly defined dogma that the process of justification starts with theological
faith (fides), preceded by the so-called grace of vocation, which prepares and effects conversion.
To say, as Baius did, that all good works performed in a state of unbelief are so many sins,
is tantamount to asserting that the preliminary acts leading up to faith, and which the unbeliever
performs by the aid of prevenient grace, are sinful; in other words, that God requires the
unbeliever to prepare himself for justification by committing sin. This is as absurd as it
is heretical.(170)

The whole argument of this section applies a fortiori to the theory that no act can be morally
good unless prompted by both theological charity and theological faith.(171)

2. We must now define the limitations of fallen nature unaided by grace. Though the graces
dispensed by Providence even for naturally good deeds are in the present economy de facto nearly
all supernatural, nothing prevents us from conceiving a different economy, consisting of purely
natural helps, such as would have been necessary in the state of pure nature.(172)

As regards the limitations of man’s moral power in the natural order, we may say, in a general
way, that the will is able to keep the easier precepts of the moral law of nature without the
assistance of grace (either supernatural or natural). However, as it is impossible in many
instances to determine just where the easier precepts end and the more difficult ones begin,
a broad field is left open for theological speculation.

a) Theologians are practically unanimous in holding that man cannot observe the natural law
in its entirety for any considerable length of time without the aid of grace.

Suarez is so sure of this that he does not hesitate to denounce the contrary teaching,—which
is (perhaps unjustly) ascribed to Durandus, Scotus, and Gabriel Biel—as “rash and verging on
error.”(173) In matter of fact the Church has formally defined that, because of concupiscence,
no one, not even the justified man, much less the sinner, is able, without divine assistance
(grace), to keep for any considerable length of time the whole Decalogue, which embodies the
essentials of the moral law. The grace of God, by Jesus Christ our Lord.”(176) Surely it would
be vain to expect the proud ideal of the Stoics or Pelagius’ presumptuous claim of impeccability
ever to be realized on earth except by a special privilege of grace, such as that bestowed
upon the Blessed Virgin Mary.(177)

The Fathers follow St. Paul in describing the power of concupiscence, even after justification.(178)

b) A pertinent question, closely allied to the proposition just treated, is this: Can the human
will, without the aid of grace, overcome all the grievous temptations to mortal sin by which
it is besieged?

It is the common teaching of theologians that, without the aid of grace, man in the fallen
state succumbs with moral (not physical) necessity to grievous temptations against the moral
law, i.e. to mortal sin. This conclusion flows from the impossibility, which we have demonstrated
above, of observing the whole law of nature for life or for any considerable length of time
without the help of grace. If man were able to resist all violent temptations, he would be
able to keep the whole law.

The theological teaching which we are here expounding may be formulated in two different ways:
(1) No man can overcome all grievous temptations against the moral law without the aid of grace;
(2) there is no man living who is not now and then assailed by temptations to which he would
inevitably succumb did not God lend him His assistance.

In its first and rather indefinite form the proposition is attacked by Ripalda,(179) Molina,(180)
and many later Scholastics. These writers argue as follows: It is impossible to deduce from
Revelation or experience a definite rule by which man could determine the conditions on which
the grievousness of a temptation depends. To say that a temptation is grievous when it cannot
be resisted without the aid of grace, would be begging the question. Besides, the possibility
always remains that there be men who, though in theory unable to withstand all grievous temptations
without the aid of grace, de facto never meet with such temptations, but only with the lighter
kind which can be overcome without supernatural help.

The second and more specific formulation of our proposition is supported by Sacred Scripture,
which explicitly declares that all men are subject to temptations which they could not resist
if God did not uphold them.(181)

If the just are obliged to watch and pray constantly, lest they fall,(182) this must be true
in an even higher degree of sinners and unbelievers. St. Augustine writes against the Pelagians:
“Faithful men say in their prayer: ‘Lead us not into temptation.’ But if they have the capacity
[of avoiding evil], why do they pray [for it]? Or, what is the evil which they pray to be delivered
from, but, above all else, the body of this death?... the carnal lusts, whence a man is liberated
only by the grace of the Saviour.... He may be permitted to pray that he may be healed. Why
does he presume so strongly on the capability of his nature? It is wounded, hurt, harassed,
destroyed; what it stands in need of is a true confession [of its weakness], not a false defense
[of its capacity].”(183)

c) Another question, on which Catholic divines disagree, is this: Can fallen man, unaided by
grace, elicit an act of perfect natural charity (amor Dei naturalis perfectus)?

Scotus answers this question affirmatively,(184) and his opinion is shared by Cajetan,(185)
Bañez,(186) Dominicus Soto,(187) and Molina.(188) Other equally eminent theologians, notably
Suarez(189) and Bellarmine,(190) take the negative side.

In order to obtain a clear understanding of the question at issue we shall have to attend to
several distinctions.

First and above all we must not lose sight of the important distinction between the natural
and the supernatural love of God. Supernatural charity, in all its stages, necessarily supposes
supernatural aid. The question therefore can refer only to the amor Dei naturalis.(191) That
this natural charity is no mere figment appears from the ecclesiastical condemnation of two
propositions of Baius.(192)

Another, even more important distinction is that between perfect and imperfect charity. Imperfect
charity is the love of God as our highest good (amor Dei ut summum bonum nobis); perfect charity
is the love of God for His own sake above all things (amor Dei propter se et super omnia).
The holy Fathers and a number of councils(193) declare that it is impossible to love God perfectly
without the aid of grace. The context and such stereotyped explanatory phrases as “sicut oportet”
or “sicut expedit ad salutem,”(194) show that these Patristic and conciliary utterances apply
to the supernatural love of God. Hence the question narrows itself down to this: Can fallen
man without the aid of grace love God for His own sake and above all things by a purely natural
love? In answering this question Pesch,(195) Tepe,(196) and other theologians distinguish between
affective and effective love. They hold that whereas the amor affectivus in all its stages
is possible without the aid of grace, not so the amor effectivus, since that would involve
the observance of the whole natural law. This compromise theory can be demonstrated as highly
probable from Scripture and Tradition. St. Paul says(197) that the gentiles knew God and should
have glorified Him. This evidently supposes that it was possible for them to glorify God, and
consequently to love Him affectively, as easily and with the same means by which they knew
Him. I, 21 sqq. is explicitly confirmed by St. Ambrose when he says: “For they were able to
apprehend this by the law of nature, inasmuch as the fabric of the cosmos testifies that God,
its author, is alone to be loved, as Moses hath set it down in his writings; but they were
made impious by not glorifying God, and unrighteousness became evident in them when, knowing,
they changed the truth into a lie and refused to confess the one God.”(199)

3. It follows, by way of corollary, that Vasquez’s opinion,(200) that there can be no good
work without supernatural aid in the shape of a cogitatio congrua, is untenable, as is also
the assertion of Ripalda(201) that in the present economy purely natural good actions are so
invariably connected with the prevenient grace of Christ that they practically never exist as such.

a) Vasquez, whose position in the matter is opposed by most other theologians, contends(202)
that no man can perform a good work or resist any temptation against the natural law (Decalogue)
without the help of supernatural grace derived from the merits of Christ. To avoid the heretical
extreme of Baianism, however, he makes a twofold limitation. He assumes with the Scotists that
there is such a thing as a morally indifferent act of the will,(203) and defines the grace
which he holds to be necessary for the performance of every morally good deed, as cogitatio
congrua. This “congruous thought,” he says, is in itself, i.e. ontologically, natural, and
can be regarded as supernatural only quoad modum et finem. The subtle argument by which Vasquez
tries to establish this thesis is based principally on St. Augustine and may be summarized
as follows: Whenever the Fathers and councils insist on the necessity of grace for the performance
of good works, they mean all good works, natural as well as supernatural. The only alternative
they know is virtue or vice, good or evil. Consequently the grace of Christ, in some form or
other, is a necessary requisite of all morally good deeds.

As we have already intimated, we regard this opinion of the learned Spanish divine as erroneous.(204)
Three solid reasons militate against it. The first is that, to guard against Baianism, Vasquez
is compelled to assume the existence of morally indifferent acts of the will, which is untenable,
as “St. Augustine and St. Thomas, and theologians generally teach that there is no such thing
in the concrete as a morally indifferent act of the free will, and consequently, if the will
is able, without grace, to perform acts that are not evil, it is also able to perform good
acts.”(205) Second, Vasquez’s theory counterfeits the notion of Christian grace. “Good thoughts”
come so natural to man, and are so closely bound up with the grace of creation, that even Pelagius
found no difficulty in admitting this sort of “grace.”(206) Surely fallen nature is not so
utterly corrupt that a good child is unable to honor and love his parents without the aid of
“grace” (in the sense of cogitatio congrua ex meritis Christi). The third reason which constrains
us to reject Vasquez’s theory, is that it leaves no room for natural morality (naturaliter
honestum) to fill the void between those acts that are naturally bad (moraliter inhonesta,
i.e. peccata) and such as are supernaturally good (supernaturaliter bona, i.e. salutaria).
The existence of such naturally good acts would seem to be a highly probable inference from
the condemnation, by Pius VI, of a certain proposition taught by the pseudo-Council of Pistoia.(207)

b) Martinez de Ripalda (+1648) tried to improve Vasquez’s theory by restoring the Christian
concept of grace and adding that Providence invariably precedes all naturally good works, including
those performed by heathens and sinners, with the entitatively supernatural grace of illumination
and confirmation.(208) In this hypothesis the necessity of grace is not theological but purely
historic.(209)

Despite the wealth of arguments by which Ripalda attempted to prove his theory,(210) it has
not been generally accepted. While some, e.g. Platel(211) and Pesch,(212) regard it with a
degree of sympathy, others, notably De Lugo(213) and Tepe,(214) are strongly opposed to it.
Palmieri thinks it may be accepted in a restricted sense, i.e. when limited to the faithful.(215)

Ripalda’s hypothesis of the universality of grace is truly sublime and would have to be accepted
if God’s salvific will could be demonstrated by revelation or some historic law to suffer no
exceptions. But Ripalda has not been able to prove this from Revelation.(216) Then, too, his
theory entails two extremely objectionable conclusions: (1) a denial, not indeed of the possibility
(Quesnel), but of the existence of purely natural good works, and (2) the possibility of justification
without theological faith. Neither of these difficulties probably occurred to Vasquez or Ripalda,(217)
because at the time when they wrote Pius VI had not yet condemned the teaching of the pseudo-Council
of Pistoia,(218) nor had Innocent XI censured the proposition that “Faith in a broad sense,
as derived from the testimony of creatures or some other similar motive, is sufficient for
justification.”(219) If the love of God, even perfect love, (such as we have shown to be possible
in the natural order), were of itself necessarily supernatural, as Ripalda contends, it would
be possible for a pagan to receive the grace of justification without theological faith, which
he does not possess, as is evident from the Vatican teaching that it is “requisite for divine
faith that revealed truth be believed because of the authority of God who reveals it.”(220)

*Thesis III: Not all actions performed by man in the state of mortal sin are sinful on account
of his not being in the state of grace.*

This is de fide.

Proof. Though this thesis is, strictly speaking, included in Thesis II, it must be demonstrated
separately on its own merits, because it embodies a formally defined dogma which has been denied
by the Protestant Reformers and by the followers of Baius and Jansenius. Martin Luther taught,—and
his teaching was adopted in a modified form by the Calvinists,—that human nature is entirely
depraved by original sin, and consequently man necessarily sins in whatever he does,(221) even
in the process of justification. Against this heresy the Tridentine Council defined: “If any
one shall say that all the works done before justification ... are indeed sins, ... let him
be anathema.”(222)

The Protestant notion of grace was reduced to a theological system by Baius(223) and Jansenius,(224)
whose numerous errors may all be traced to their denial of the supernatural order.

The Jansenist teaching was pushed to an extreme by Paschasius Quesnel, 101 of whose propositions
were formally condemned by Pope Clement XI in his famous Constitution “Unigenitus.”(225) The
Jansenistic teachings of the Council of Pistoia were censured by Pius VI, A. D. 1794, in his
Bull “Auctorem fidei.” The quintessence of this heretical system is embodied in the proposition
that whatever a man does in the state of mortal sin is necessarily sinful for the reason that
he is not in the state of grace (status caritatis). Baius(226) and Quesnel(227) gave this teaching
an Augustinian turn by saying that there is no intermediate state between the love of God and
concupiscence, and that all the works of a sinner must consequently and of necessity be sinful.
This heretical teaching is sharply condemned in the Bull “Auctorem fidei.”(228) Quesnel pushed
it to its last revolting conclusion when he said: “The prayer of the wicked is a new sin, and
that God permits it is but an additional judgment upon them.”(229)

The teaching of Baius and Quesnel is repugnant to Revelation and to the doctrine of the Fathers.

a) The Bible again and again exhorts sinners to repent, to pray for forgiveness, to give alms,
etc. Cfr. Ecclus. XXI, 1: “My son, thou hast sinned? Do so no more: but for thy former sins
also pray that they may be forgiven thee.” Ezech. XVIII, 30: “Be converted, and do penance
for all your iniquities: and iniquity shall not be your ruin.” Dan. I, 3: “Thus saith the Lord
of hosts: Turn ye to me, saith the Lord of hosts: and I will turn to you.” If all the works
thus enjoined were but so many sins, we should be forced to conclude, on the authority of Sacred
Scripture, that God commands the sinner to commit new iniquities and that the process of justification
with its so-called dispositions consists in a series of sinful acts. Such an assumption would
be manifestly absurd and blasphemous.

Quesnel endeavored to support his heretical conceit by Matth. Are not doctrines and morals
ultimately related, and may we not infer from the lives they lead (according to their doctrines)
whether prophets are true or false? By their fruits (i.e. works) you shall know them (i.e.
the soundness or unsoundness of the teaching upon which their works are based).

b) In appealing to the testimony of the Fathers the Jansenists were notoriously guilty of misinterpretation.

α) Origen plainly teaches that prayer before justification is a good work. “Though you are
sinners,” he says, “pray to God; God hears the sinners.”(231) The seemingly contradictory text
John IX, 31: “Now we know that God doth not hear sinners,”(232) is thus explained by St. Augustine:
“He speaks as one not yet anointed; for God also hears the sinners. If He did not hear sinners,
the publican would have cast his eyes to the ground in vain and vainly struck his breast saying:
O God, be merciful to me, a sinner.”(233) Moreover, since there is question here of extraordinary
works and signs only (viz. miracles), the text is wholly irrelevant in regard to works of personal
righteousness. St. Prosper teaches: “Human nature, created by God, even after its prevarication,
retains its substance, form, life, senses, and reason, and the other goods of body and soul,
which are not lacking even to those who are bad and vicious. But there is no possibility of
seizing the true good by such things as may adorn this mortal life, but cannot give [merit]
eternal life.”(234)

β) Baius and Quesnel succeeded in veiling their heresy by a phraseology of Augustinian color
but with implications foreign to the mind of the Doctor of Grace. Augustine emphasized the
opposition between “charity” and “concupiscence” so strongly that the intermediary domain of
naturally good works was almost lost to view. Thus he says in his Enchiridion: “Carnal lust
reigns where there is not the love of God.”(235) And in his treatise on the Grace of Christ:
“Here there is no love, no good work is reckoned as done, nor is there in fact any good work,
rightly so called; because whatever is not of faith is sin, and faith worketh by love.”(236)
And again in his treatise on Grace and Free Will: “The commandments of love or charity are
so great and such, that whatever action a man may think he does well, is by no means well done
if done without charity.”(237) We have purposely chosen passages in which the “Doctor of Grace”
obviously treats of charity as theological love, not in the broad sense of dilectio.(238) At
first blush these passages seem to agree with the teaching of Baius, who says: “Every love
on the part of a rational creature is either sinful cupidity, by which the world is loved,
and which is forbidden by St. John, or that praiseworthy charity which is infused into the
heart by the Holy Spirit, and by which we love God;”—(239) and with the forty-fifth proposition
of Quesnel: “As the love of God no longer reigns in the hearts of sinners, it is necessary
that carnal lust should reign in them and vitiate all their actions.”(240) Yet the sense of
these propositions is anything but Augustinian. Augustine upholds free-will in spite of grace
and concupiscence, whereas the Jansenists assert that the carnalis cupiditas and the caritas
dominans produce their effects by the very power of nature, i.e. necessarily and of themselves.(241)

Besides this capital difference there are many minor discrepancies between the teaching of
St. Augustine and that of Baius and Quesnel. Augustine, it is true, in his struggle with Pelagianism,(242)
strongly emphasized the opposition existing between grace and sin, between love of God and
love of the world; but he never dreamed of asserting that every act performed in the state
of mortal sin is sinful for the reason that it is not performed in the state of grace. Scholasticism
has long since applied the necessary corrective to his exaggerations. It is perfectly orthodox
to say that there is an irreconcilable opposition between the state of mortal sin and the state
of grace. “No one can serve two masters.”(243) This is not, however, by any means equivalent
to saying, as the Jansenists do, that the sinner, not being in the state of grace, of necessity
sins in whatever he does. Augustine expressly admits that, no matter how deeply God may allow
a man to fall, and no matter how strongly concupiscence may dominate his will, he is yet able
to pray for grace, which is in itself a distinctly salutary act. “If a sin is such,” he says
in his Retractationes, “that it is itself a punishment for sin, what can the will under the
domination of cupidity do, except, if it be pious, to pray for help?”(244) Compare this sentence
with the fortieth proposition of Baius: “The sinner in all his actions serves the lust which
rules him,”(245) and you will perceive the third essential difference that separates the teaching
of St. Augustine from that of the Jansenists. The former, even when he speaks, not of the two
opposing habits, but of their respective acts, does not, like Jansenism, represent the universality
of sin without theological charity as a physical and fundamental necessity, but merely as a
historical phenomenon which admits of exceptions. Thus he writes in his treatise On the Spirit
and the Letter: “If they who by nature do the things contained in the law, must not be regarded
as yet in the number of those whom Christ’s grace justifies, but rather as among those whose
actions (although they are those of ungodly men who do not truly and rightly worship the true
God) we not only cannot blame, but actually praise, and with good reason, and rightly too,
since they have been done, so far as we read or know or hear, according to the rule of righteousness;
though were we to discuss the question with what motive they are done, they would hardly be
found to be such as to deserve the praise and defense which are due to righteous conduct.”(246)

In conclusion we will quote a famous passage from St. Augustine which
reads like a protest against the distortions of Baius and Jansenius.
“Love,” he says, “is either divine or human; human love is either licit or
illicit.... I speak first of licit human love, which is free from censure;
then, of illicit human love, which is damnable; and in the third place, of
divine love, which leads us to Heaven.... You, therefore, have that love
which is licit; it is human, but, as I have said, licit, so much so that,
if it were lacking, [the want of] it would be censured. You are permitted
with human love to love your spouse, your children, your friends and
fellow-citizens. But, as you see, the ungodly, too, have this love, e.g.
pagans, Jews, heretics. Who among them does not love his wife, his
children, his brethren, his neighbors, his relations and friends? This,
therefore, is human love. If any one would be so unfeeling as to lose even
human love, not loving his own children, ... we should no longer regard
him as a human being.”(247) Tepe pertinently observes(248) that St.
Augustine in this passage asserts not only the possibility but the actual
existence of naturally good though unmeritorious works (opera steriliter
 bona), and that the theory of Ripalda(249) is untenable for this
reason, if for no other, that the quoted passage is cited in Pius VI’s
Bull “Auctorem fidei.”(250)

Article 2. The Necessity Of Actual Grace For All Salutary Acts

Salutary acts (actus salutares) are those directed to the attainment of sanctifying grace and
the supernatural end of man.

According to this double purpose, salutary acts may be divided into two classes: (1) those
that prepare for justification (actus simpliciter salutares), and (2) those which, following
justification, gain merits for Heaven (actus meritorii).

In consequence of the supernatural character of the acts which they comprise, both these categories
are diametrically opposed to that class of acts which are good only in a natural way,(251)
and hence must be carefully distinguished from the latter. The Fathers did not, of course,
employ the technical terms of modern theology; they had their own peculiar phrases for designating
what we call salutary acts, e.g. agere sicut oportet vel expedit, agere ad salutem, agere ad
iustificationem, agere ad vitam aeternam, etc.(252)

1. PELAGIANISM.—Pelagianism started as a reaction against Manichaeism, but fell into the opposite
extreme of exaggerating the capacity of human nature at the expense of grace. It denied original
sin(253) and grace.

As the necessity of grace for all salutary acts is a fundamental dogma of the Christian religion,
the Church proceeded with unusual severity against Pelagian naturalism and condemned its vagaries
through the mouth of many councils.

a) Pelagius was a British lay monk, who came to Rome about the year 400 to propagate his erroneous
views.(254) He found a willing pupil in Celestius, who after distinguishing himself as a lawyer,
had been ordained to the priesthood at Ephesus, about 411.

The Pelagian heresy gained another powerful champion in the person of Bishop Julian of Eclanum
in Apulia. Its strongest opponent was St. Augustine. Under his powerful blows the Pelagians
repeatedly changed their tactics, without however giving up their cardinal error in regard
to grace. Their teaching on this point may be summarized as follows: The human will is able
by its natural powers to keep all the commandments of God, to resist temptation, and to gain
eternal life; in fact it can attain to a state of holiness and impeccability(255) in which
the petition “Forgive us our trespasses” no longer has any meaning except perhaps as an expression
of humility.(256) In so far, however, as free-will is itself a gift of the Creator, man can
perform no good works without grace. At a later period of his career Pelagius admitted the
existence of merely external supernatural graces, such as revelation and the example of Christ
and the saints,—which led St. Augustine to remark: “This is the hidden and despicable poison
of your heresy that you represent the grace of Christ as His example, not His gift, alleging
that man is justified by imitating Him, not by the ministration of the Holy Spirit.”(257) But
even this external grace, according to Pelagius, does not confer the strength necessary to
perform good works; it merely makes it easier to keep the commandments. Pelagius did not deny
that justification and adoptive sonship, considered in their ideal relation to the “kingdom
of Heaven,” as distinguished from “eternal life,”(258) are not identical in adults with the
grace of creation, but he denied their gratuity by asserting that the free will is able to
merit all these graces by its own power.(259)

Whatever may have been the variations of Pelagianism, it is patent from the writings of St.
Augustine that its defenders one and all rejected the necessity and existence of the immediate
grace of the will.(260) Their attitude towards the illuminating grace of the intellect is in
dispute. Some theologians(261) think the Pelagians admitted, others(262) that they denied its
existence. No matter what they may have held on this point, there can be no doubt that the
followers of Pelagius conceived the object of grace to be nothing more than to facilitate the
work of salvation.

b) Within the short span of twenty years (A. D. 411 to 431) no less than twenty-four councils
occupied themselves with this new heresy.

At first the wily heretic succeeded in deceiving the prelates assembled at Lydda (Diospolis),
A. D. 415; but the bishops of Northern Africa, among them St. Augustine, roundly condemned
his teaching at two councils held with the sanction of Pope Innocent I at Carthage and Mileve
in 416. Shortly afterwards, deceived by the terms of the creeds and explanations which they
circulated, Pope Zosimus (417-418) declared both Pelagius and Celestius to be innocent. Despite
this intervention, however, two hundred African bishops, at a plenary council held at Carthage,
A. D. 418, reiterated the canons of Mileve and submitted them for approval to the Holy See.
These proceedings induced Zosimus to adopt stronger measures. In his Epistula Tractoria (418)
he formally condemned Pelagianism and persuaded the Emperor to send Julian of Eclanum and seventeen
other recalcitrant bishops into exile. The canons of Carthage and Mileve were subsequently
received by the universal Church as binding definitions of the faith. The most important of
them in regard to grace is this: “If anyone shall say that the grace of justification is given
to us for the purpose of enabling us to do more easily by the aid of grace what we are commanded
to do by free-will, as if we were able, also, though less easily, to observe the commandments
of God without the help of grace, let him be anathema.”(263) The Ecumenical Council of Ephesus
(A. D. 431), with the approval of Pope Celestine I, renewed the condemnation of Celestius,
but it was not until nearly a century later that Pelagianism received its death-blow. In 529
the Second Council of Orange defined: “If any one assert that he is able, by the power of nature,
and without the illumination and inspiration of the Holy Ghost, who grants to all men the disposition
believingly to accept the truth, rightly (ut expedit) to think or choose anything good pertaining
to eternal salvation, or to assent to salutary, i.e. evangelical preaching, such a one is deceived
by a heretical spirit.”(264) This decision was reiterated by the Council of Trent: “If any
one saith that the grace of God through Jesus Christ is given only for this, that man may be
able more easily to live justly and to merit eternal life, as if by free-will without grace
he were able to do both, though hardly indeed and with difficulty, let him be anathema.”(265)

2. PELAGIANISM REFUTED.—Sacred Scripture and the Fathers plainly teach that man is unable to
perform any salutary act by his own power.

a) Among the many Biblical texts that can be quoted in support of this statement, our Lord’s
beautiful parable of the vine and its branches is especially striking. Cfr. John XV, 4 sq.:
“As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abide in the vine, so neither can you,
unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you the branches: he that abideth in me, and I in him,
the same beareth much fruit: for without me you can do nothing.”(266)

α) The context shows that Jesus is not speaking here of purely natural works of the kind for
which the concursus generalis of God suffices, but that He has in mind salutary acts in the
strictly supernatural sense; and the truth He wishes to inculcate is that fallen nature cannot
perform such acts except through Him and with His assistance. This supernatural influence is
not, however, to be understood exclusively of sanctifying or habitual grace, because our Divine
Saviour refers to the fruits of justification and to salutary works. “Of these he does not
say: ‘Without me you can do but little,’ but: ‘Without me you can do nothing.’ Be it therefore
little or much, it cannot be done without Him, without whom nothing can be done.”(267) If this
was true of the Apostles, who were in the state of sanctifying grace,(268) it must be true
a fortiori of sinners. Consequently, supernatural grace is absolutely necessary for the performance
of any and all acts profitable for salvation.

β) Nowhere is this fundamental truth so clearly and insistently brought out as in the epistles
of St. Paul, who is preëminently “the Doctor of Grace” among the Apostles.

There are, according to him, three categories of supernatural acts: salutary thoughts, holy
resolves, and good works.

St. Paul teaches that all right thinking is from God. 2 Cor. III, 5: “Not that we are sufficient
to think anything of ourselves, as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God.”(269)

He also declares that all good resolves come from above. Rom. IX, 15 sq.: “For he saith to
Moses: I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy; and I will shew mercy to whom I will shew
mercy. So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth
mercy.”(270)

He furthermore asserts that all good works come from God. Phil. II, 13: “For it is God who
worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.”(271) 1 Cor. XII,
3: “No man can say: Lord Jesus, but by the Holy Ghost.”(272) Pronouncing the holy name of Jesus
is obviously regarded as a salutary act, because mere physical utterance does not require the
assistance of the Holy Ghost.(273) But the act as a salutary act is physically impossible without
divine assistance, because it is essentially supernatural and consequently exceeds the powers
of nature.(274)

b) The argument from Tradition is based almost entirely on the authority of St. Augustine,
in whom, as Liebermann observes, God wrought a miracle of grace that he might become its powerful
defender. There is no need of quoting specific texts because this whole treatise is interlarded
with Augustinian dicta concerning the necessity of grace.

α) An important point is to prove that the early Fathers held the Augustinian, i.e. Catholic
view. It stands to reason that if these Fathers had taught a different doctrine, the Church
would not have so vehemently rejected Pelagianism as an heretical innovation. Augustine himself
insists on the novelty of the Pelagian teaching. “Such is the Pelagian heresy,” he says, “which
is not an ancient one, but has only lately come into existence.”(275) And this view is confirmed
by Pope Celestine I, who declares in his letter to the Bishops of Gaul (A. D. 431): “This being
the state of the question, novelty should cease to attack antiquity.”(276)

In fact the teaching of the Apostolic Fathers, although less explicit, agrees entirely with
that of Augustine. Thus St. Irenaeus says: “As the dry earth, if it receives no moisture, does
not bring forth fruit, so we, being dry wood, could never bear fruit for life without supernatural
rain freely given.... The blessing of salvation comes to us from God, not from ourselves.”(277)

The necessity of grace is indirectly inculcated by the Church when she petitions God to grant
salutary graces to all men—a most ancient and venerable practice, which Pope St. Celestine
explains as follows: “The law of prayer should determine the law of belief. For when the priests
of holy nations administer the office entrusted to them, asking God for mercy, they plead the
cause of the human race, and together with the whole Church ask and pray that the unbelievers
may receive the faith, that the idolaters may be freed from the errors of their impiety, that
the veil be lifted from the heart of the Jews, and they be enabled to perceive the light of
truth, that the heretics may return to their senses by a true perception of the Catholic faith,
that the schismatics may receive the spirit of reborn charity, that the sinners be granted
the remedy of penance, and that the door of heavenly mercy be opened to the catechumens who
are led to the sacraments of regeneration.”(278) In matters of salvation prayer and grace are
correlative terms; the practice of the one implies the necessity and gratuity of the other.(279)

β) That the Fathers not only conceived grace to be necessary for the cure of weakness induced
by sin (gratia sanans) in a merely moral sense, but thought it to be metaphysically necessary
for the communication of physical strength (gratia elevans), is evidenced by such oft-recurring
similes as these: Grace is as necessary for salvation as the eye is to see, or as wings are
to fly, or as rain is for the growth of plants.

It will suffice to quote a passage from the writings of St. Chrysostom. “The eyes,” he says,
“are beautiful and useful for seeing, but if they would attempt to see without light, all their
beauty and visual power would avail them nothing. Thus, too, the soul is but an obstacle in
its own way if it endeavors to see without the Holy Ghost.”(280)

This view is strengthened by the further teaching of the Fathers that supernatural grace was
as indispensable to the angels in their state of probation (in which they were free from concupiscence)
and to our first parents in Paradise (gifted as they were with the donum integritatis), as
it is to fallen man; the only difference being that in the case of the latter, grace has the
additional object of curing the infirmities and overcoming the difficulties arising from concupiscence.
In regard to the angels St. Augustine says; “And who made this will but He who created them
with a good will, that is to say with a chaste love by which they should cleave to Him, in
one and the same act creating their nature and endowing it with grace?... We must therefore
acknowledge, with the praise due to the Creator, that not only of holy men, but also of the
holy angels, it can be said that ‘the love of God is shed abroad in their hearts by the Holy
Ghost, who is given unto them.’ ”(281)

Equally convincing is the argument that Adam in Paradise was unable to perform any salutary
acts without divine grace. “Just as it is in man’s power to die whenever he will,” says St.
Augustine, “... but the mere will cannot preserve life in the absence of food and the other
means of life; so man in Paradise was able of his mere will, simply by abandoning righteousness,
to destroy himself; but to have led a life of righteousness would have been too much for his
will, unless it had been sustained by the power of Him who made him.”(282)

This is also the teaching of the Second Council of Orange (A. D. 529): “Even if human nature
remained in the state of integrity, in which it was constituted, it would in no wise save itself
without the help of its Creator. If it was unable, without the grace of God, to keep what it
had received, how should it be able without the grace of God to regain what it has lost?”(283)

c) The theological argument for the metaphysical necessity of grace is based on the essentially
supernatural character of all salutary acts.

α) St. Thomas formulates it as follows: “Eternal life is an end transcending the proportion
of human nature, ... and therefore man, by nature, can perform no meritorious works proportioned
to eternal life, but requires for this purpose a higher power,—the power of grace. Consequently,
man cannot merit eternal life without grace. He is, however, able to perform acts productive
of some good connatural to man, such as tilling the soil, drinking, eating, acts of friendship,
etc.”(284) For the reason here indicated it is as impossible for man to perform salutary acts
without grace as it would be to work miracles without that divine assistance which transcends
the powers of nature.(285)

β) Catholic theologians are unanimous in admitting that all salutary acts are and must needs
be supernatural; but they differ in their conception of this supernatural quality (supernaturalitas).
The problem underlying this difference of opinion may be stated thus: A thing may be supernatural
either entitatively, quoad substantiam, or merely as to the manner of its existence, quoad
modum. The supernaturale quoad substantiam is divided into the strictly supernatural and the
merely preternatural.(286) The question is: To what category of the supernatural belong the
salutary acts which man performs by the aid of grace? Undoubtedly there are actual graces which
are entitatively natural, e.g. the purely mediate grace of illumination,(287) the natural graces
conferred in the pure state of nature, the actual graces of the sensitive sphere,(288) and
the so-called cogitatio congrua of Vasquez.(289) The problem therefore narrows itself down
to the immediate graces of intellect and will. Before the Tridentine Council theologians contented
themselves with acknowledging the divinely revealed fact that these graces are supernatural;
it was only after the Council that they began to speculate on the precise character of this
supernaturalitas.

Some, following the teaching of the Scotist school, ascribed the supernatural character of
salutary acts to their free acceptation on the part of God, holding them to be purely natural
in their essence and raised to the supernatural sphere merely per denominationem extrinsecam.(290)
This view is untenable. For if nature, as such, possessed the intrinsic power to perform salutary
acts, irrespective of their acceptation by God, the Fathers and councils would err in teaching
that this power is derived from the immediate graces of illumination and strengthening.(291)

Others hold that the salutary acts which grace enables man to perform, are supernatural only
quoad modum; because while it is the Holy Ghost Himself who incites the natural faculties to
salutary thoughts and good resolves, He does not eo ipso raise these thoughts and resolves
to the supernatural plane. This theory, besides being open to the same objection which we have
urged against the first, involves another difficulty. If all salutary acts were supernatural
only quoad modum, sanctifying grace, which is as certainly supernatural in its essence as the
beatific vision of God,(292) would cease to have an adequate purpose; for the intrinsic reason
for its existence is precisely that it raises the nature of the justified into a permanent
supernatural state of being.

A third school of theologians tries to solve the difficulty by adding to the natural operation
of the intellect and the will some accidental supernatural modus. There are several such modi,
which, though inhering in nature and really distinct therefrom, depend solely on the Holy Ghost,
and consequently transcend the natural powers of man, e.g. the duration or intensity of a salutary
act. This theory at first blush appears more plausible than the other two, but it cannot be
squared with the teaching of Tradition. In the first place, the duration or intensity of a
salutary act cannot affect its essence or nature. Then again, every such accidental supernatural
modus is produced either by grace alone, or by grace working conjointly with free-will. In
the former hypothesis it would be useless, because it would not render the free salutary act,
as such, supernatural; in the latter case it could do no more than aid the will to do what
is morally impossible, whereas every salutary act is in matter of fact a physical impossibility,
that is, impossible to unaided nature.(293)

There remains a fourth explanation, which ascribes to every salutary act an ontological, substantial,
intrinsic supernaturalitas, whereby it is elevated to a higher and essentially different plane
of being and operation. This theory is convincingly set forth by Suarez in his treatise on
the Necessity of Grace.(294)

It may be asked: If the salutary acts which we perform are supernatural in substance, why are
we not conscious of the fact? The answer is not far to seek. Philosophical analysis shows that
the intrinsic nature of our psychic operations is no more a subject of immediate consciousness
than the substance of the soul itself. Consequently, sanctifying grace cannot reveal its presence
through our inner consciousness. Having no intuitive knowledge of our own Ego, we are compelled
to specify the different acts of the soul by means of their respective objects and their various
tendencies (cognition, volition).

The question we have now to consider is: Does man need actual grace in every one of these three
states, and if so, to what extent?

1. SEMIPELAGIANISM.—Semipelagianism is an attempt to effect a compromise between Pelagianism
and Augustinism by attributing to mere nature a somewhat greater importance in matters of salvation
than St. Augustine was willing to admit.

a) After Augustine had for more than twenty years vigorously combatted and finally defeated
Pelagianism, some pious monks of Marseilles, under the leadership of John Cassian, Abbot of
St. Victor,(296) tried to find middle ground between his teaching and that of the Pelagians.
Cassian’s treatise Collationes Patrum,(297) and the reports sent to St. Augustine by his disciples
Prosper and Hilary, enable us to form a pretty fair idea of the Semipelagian system. Its principal
tenets were the following:

α) There is a distinction between the “beginning of faith” (initium fidei, affectus credulitatis)
and “increase in faith” (augmentum fidei). The former depends entirely on the will, while the
latter, like faith itself, requires the grace of Christ.

β) Nature can merit grace by its own efforts, though this natural merit (meritum naturae) is
founded on equity only (meritum de congruo), and does not confer a right in strict justice,
as Pelagius contended.

γ) Free-will, after justification, can of its own power secure the gift of final perseverance
(donum perseverantiae); which consequently is not a special grace, but a purely natural achievement.

δ) The bestowal or denial of baptismal grace in the case of infants, who can have no previous
merita de congruo, depends on their hypothetical future merits or demerits as foreseen by God
from all eternity.(298)

b) Informed of these errors by his disciples, St. Augustine energetically set to work, and
in spite of his advanced age wrote two books against the Semipelagians, entitled respectively,
De Praedestinatione Sanctorum and De Dono Perseverantiae. The new teaching was not yet, however,
regarded as formally heretical, and Augustine treated his opponents with great consideration,
in fact he humbly acknowledged that he himself had professed similar errors before his consecration
(A. D. 394).(299)

After Augustine’s death, Prosper and Hilary went to Rome and interested Pope Celestine in their
cause. In a dogmatic letter addressed to the Bishops of Gaul, the Pontiff formally approved
the teaching of St. Augustine on grace and original sin, but left open such other “more profound
and difficult incidental questions” as predestination and the manner in which grace operates
in the soul.(300) But as this papal letter (called “Indiculus”) was an instruction rather than
an ex-cathedra definition, the controversy continued until, nearly a century later (A. D. 529),
the Second Council of Orange, convoked by St. Caesarius of Arles, formally condemned the Semipelagian
heresy. This council, or at least its first eight canons,(301) received the solemn approbation
of Pope Boniface II (A. D. 530) and thus became vested with ecumenical authority.(302)

2. THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH.—The Catholic Church teaches the absolute necessity of actual
grace for all stages on the way to salvation. We shall demonstrate this in five separate theses.

*Thesis I: Prevenient grace is absolutely necessary, not only for faith, but for the very beginning
of faith.*

This is de fide.

Proof. The Second Council of Orange defined against the Semipelagians: “If any one say that
increase in faith, as well as the beginning of faith, and the very impulse by which we are
led to believe in Him who justifies the sinner, and by which we obtain the regeneration of
holy Baptism, is in us not as a gift of grace, that is to say, through the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost, but by nature, ... is an adversary of the dogmatic teaching of the Apostles....”(303)

a) This is thoroughly Scriptural doctrine, as St. Augustine(304) and Prosper(305) proved. St.
Paul’s first epistle to the Corinthians had opened the eyes of Augustine, as he himself admits.
This statement would be false if any man were able to perform even the smallest salutary act
without the aid of grace. “No man can come to me, except the Father, who hath sent me, draw
him.”(313) The metaphorical expression “come to me,” according to the context, means “believe
in me;” whereas the Father’s “drawing” plainly refers to the operation of prevenient grace.
Cfr. John VI, 65 sq.: “But there are some of you that believe not.... Therefore did I say to
you, that no man can come to me, unless it be given him by the Father.” John VI, 29: “This
is the work of God,(314) that you believe in him whom he hath sent.” According to our Saviour’s
own averment, therefore, preaching is of no avail unless grace gives the first impulse leading
to faith.

b) As regards the argument from Tradition, it will suffice to show that the Fathers who wrote
before Augustine, ascribed the beginning of faith to prevenient grace.

α) In the light of the Augustinian dictum that “prayer is the surest proof of grace,”(315)
it is safe to assume that St. Justin Martyr voiced our dogma when he put into the mouth of
a venerable old man the words: “But thou pray above all that the gates of light may be opened
unto thee; for no man is able to understand the words of the prophets [as praeambula fidei]
unless God and His Christ have revealed their meaning.”(316) Augustine himself appeals to SS.
Cyprian, Ambrose, and Gregory of Nazianzus, and then continues: “Such doctors, and so great
as these, saying that there is nothing of which we may boast as of our own, which God has not
given us; and that our very heart and our thoughts are not in our own power, ... attribute
these things to the grace of God, acknowledge them as God’s gifts, testify that they come to
us from Him and are not from ourselves.”(317)

β) Like the Pelagians in their teaching on original sin,(318) the Semipelagians in their teaching
on grace relied mainly on the authority of St. John Chrysostom, from whose writings they loved
to quote such perplexing passages as this: “We must first select the good, and then God adds
what is of His; He does not forestall our will because He does not wish to destroy our liberty.
But once we have made our choice, He gives us much help. For while it rests with us to choose
and to will antecedently, it lies with him to perfect and bring to an issue.”(319)

To understand St. Chrysostom’s attitude, and that of the Oriental Fathers generally, we must
remember that the Eastern Church considered it one of its chief duties to safeguard the dogma
of free-will against the Manichaeans, who regarded man as an abject slave of Fate. In such
an environment it was of supreme importance to champion the freedom of the will(320) and to
insist on the maxim: “Help yourself and God will help you.” If the necessity of prevenient
grace was not sufficiently emphasized, the circumstances of the time explain, and to some extent
excuse, the mistake. St. Augustine himself remarks in his treatise on the Predestination of
the Saints: “What need is there for us to look into the writings of those who, before this
heresy sprang up, had no necessity of dwelling on a question so difficult of solution as this,
which beyond a doubt they would do if they were compelled to answer such [errors as these]?
Whence it came about that they touched upon what they thought of God’s grace briefly and cursorily
in some passages of their writings.”(321) Palmieri remarks(322) that it would be easy to cite
a number of similar passages from the writings of the early Latin Fathers before Pelagius,
who certainly cannot be suspected of Semipelagian leanings.(323)

The orthodoxy of St. Chrysostom can be positively established by a twofold argument. (1) Pope
Celestine the First recommended him as a reliable defender of the Catholic faith against Nestorianism
and Pelagianism.(324) (2) Chrysostom rejected Semipelagianism as it were in advance when he
taught: “Not even faith is of ourselves; for if He [God] had not come, if He had not called,
how should we have been able to believe?”(325) and again when he says in his explanation of
the Pauline phrase ἀρχηγὸς τῆς πίστεως:(326) “He Himself hath implanted the faith in us, He
Himself hath given the beginning.”(327) These utterances are diametrically opposed to the heretical
teaching of the Semipelagians.(328)

c) The theological argument for our thesis is effectively formulated by Oswald(329) as follows:
“It is faith which first leads man from the sphere of nature into a higher domain,—faith is
the beginning of salutary action. That this beginning must come wholly from God, and that it
cannot come from man, goes without saying. By beginning we mean the very first beginning. Whether
we call this first beginning itself faith, or speak, as the Semipelagians did, of certain preambles
of faith,—aspirations, impulses, desires leading to faith (praeambula fidei: conatus, desideria,
credulitatis affectus), makes no difference. Wherever the supernatural domain of salutary action
begins—and it is divided off from the natural by a very sharp line—there it is God who begins
and not man, there it is grace which precedes,—gratia praeveniens, as it has come to be known
by a famous term.”

Indeed, if man were able by his own power to merit for himself the first beginnings of grace,
then faith itself, and justification which is based on faith, and the beatific vision, would
not be strictly graces.

As for the precise moment when prevenient grace begins its work in the soul, the common opinion
is that the very first judgment which a man forms as to the credibility of divine revelation
(iudicium credibilitatis) is determined by the immediate grace of the intellect,(330) and that
the subsequent affectus credulitatis springs from the strengthening grace of the will. St.
Augustine, commenting on 2 Cor. III, 5, demonstrates this as follows:

“Let them give attention to this, and well weigh these words, who think that the beginning
of faith is of ourselves, and the increase of faith is of God. For who cannot see that thinking
is prior to believing? For no one believes anything unless he has first thought that it is
to be believed.... Therefore, in what pertains to religion and piety [of which the Apostle
was speaking], if we are not capable of thinking anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency
is of God, we are certainly not capable of believing anything as of ourselves, since we cannot
do this without thinking, but our sufficiency, by which we begin to believe, is of God.”(331)

*Thesis II: The sinner, even after he has received the faith, stands in absolute need of prevenient
and co-operating grace for every single salutary act required in the process of justification.*

This proposition also embodies an article of faith.

Proof. The Semipelagians ascribed the dispositions necessary for justification to the natural
efforts of the will, thereby denying the necessity of prevenient grace. This teaching was condemned
as heretical by the Second Council of Orange (A. D. 529),(332) and again by the Council of
Trent, which defined: “If any one saith that without the prevenient inspiration of the Holy
Ghost, and without His help, man can believe, hope, love, or be penitent as he ought, so that
the grace of justification may be bestowed upon him; let him be anathema.”(333)

a) The Scriptural texts which we have quoted against Pelagianism(334) also apply to the Semipelagian
heresy.

Our Lord’s dictum: “Without me you can do nothing,”(335) proves the necessity of prevenient
and co-operating grace, not only at the beginning of every salutary act, but also for its continuation
and completion. St. Augustine clearly perceived this. “That he might furnish a reply to the
future Pelagius,” he observes, “our Lord does not say: Without me you can with difficulty do
anything; but He says: Without me you can do nothing.... He does not say: Without me you can
perfect nothing, but do nothing. For if He had said perfect, they might say that God’s aid
is necessary, not for beginning good, which is of ourselves, but for perfecting it.... For
when the Lord says, Without me you can do nothing, in this one word He comprehends both the
beginning and the end.”(336)

St. Paul expressly ascribes the salvation of man to grace when he says: “... with fear and
trembling work out your salvation; for it is God who worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish.”(337)

The Tridentine Council, as we have seen, designates the four salutary acts of faith, hope,
love, and penitence as a preparation for justification.

Thus he writes in his Enchiridion: “Surely, if no Christian will dare to say this: It is not
of God that showeth mercy, but of man that willeth, lest he should openly contradict the Apostle,
it follows that the true interpretation of the saying (Rom. IX, 16): ‘It is not of him that
willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy,’ is that the whole work belongs
to God, who both prepares the good will that is to be helped, and assists it when it is prepared.
For the good will of man precedes many of God’s gifts, but not all; and it must itself be included
among those which it does not precede. We read in Holy Scripture, both ‘God’s mercy shall prevent
me’ (Ps. LVIII, 11), and ‘Thy mercy will follow me’ (Ps. XXII, 6). It precedes the unwilling
to make him willing; it follows the willing to render his will effectual. Why are we taught
to pray for our enemies, who are plainly unwilling to lead a holy life, unless it be that God
may work willingness in them? And why are we admonished to ask that we may receive, unless
it be that He who has created in us the wish, may Himself satisfy the same? We pray, then,
for our enemies, that the mercy of God may precede them, as it has preceded us; we pray for
ourselves, that His mercy may follow us.”(340)

That grace accompanies us uninterruptedly on the way to Heaven is also the teaching of St.
Jerome: “To will and to run is my own act; but without the constant aid of God, even my own
act will not be mine; for the Apostle says (Phil. II, 13): ‘It is God who worketh in you, both
to will and to accomplish.’... It is not sufficient for me that He gave it once, unless He
gives it always.”(341)

St. Ephraem Syrus prays in the name of the Oriental Church: “I possess nothing, and if I possess
anything, Thou [O God] hast given it to me.... I ask only for grace and acknowledge that I
shall be saved through Thee.”(342)

The Second Council of Orange summarizes the teaching of Tradition on the subject under consideration.(343)

c) The theological argument for our thesis is based on the character of the adoptive sonship
resulting from the process of justification.(344) This sonship (filiatio adoptiva) is essentially
supernatural, and hence can be attained only by strictly supernatural acts, which unaided nature
is both morally and physically incapable of performing.(345)

*Thesis III: Even in the state of sanctifying grace man is not able to perform salutary acts,
unless aided by actual graces.*

This is likewise de fide.

Proof. The faculties of the just man are permanently kept in the supernatural sphere by sanctifying
grace and by the habits of faith, hope, and charity. Hence the just man in the performance
of salutary acts does not require the same measure of prevenient grace as the unregenerate
sinner, who lacks all, or at least some, of the habits mentioned.

The question here at issue, therefore, can only be: Is actual grace (as gratia excitans s.
vocans, not elevans) absolutely necessary to enable a man in the state of sanctifying grace
to perform salutary acts? The answer is—Yes, and this teaching is so firmly grounded on Sacred
Scripture and Tradition, and so emphatically sanctioned by the Church, that we do not hesitate
to follow Perrone in qualifying it as de fide.(346) The councils in their teaching on the necessity
of grace, assert that necessity alike for the justified and the unjustified. That of Trent
expressly declares: “Whereas Jesus Christ Himself continually infuses His virtue into the justified,—as
the head into the members, and the vine into the branches,—and this virtue always precedes
and accompanies and follows their good works, which without it could not in any wise be pleasing
and meritorious before God, we must believe that nothing further is wanting to the justified....”(347)

a) Our thesis can be easily proved from Holy Scripture. We have already shown that the Bible
and Tradition make no distinction between the different stages on the way to salvation, or
between different salutary acts, but indiscriminately postulate for all the illuminating grace
of the intellect and the strengthening grace of the will. It follows that to perform salutary
acts the justified no less than the unjustified need actual grace. Our Saviour’s pithy saying:
“Without me you can do nothing,”(348) was not addressed to unbelievers or sinners, but to His
Apostles, who were in the state of sanctifying grace.(349)

This interpretation is fully borne out by Tradition. St. Augustine, after laying it down as
a general principle that “We can of ourselves do nothing to effect good works of piety without
God either working that we may will, or co-operating when we will,”(350) says of justified
man in particular: “The Heavenly Physician cures our maladies, not only that they may cease
to exist, but in order that we may ever afterwards be able to walk aright,—a task to which
we should be unequal, even after our healing, were it not for His continued help.... For just
as the eye of the body, even when completely sound, is unable to see, unless aided by the brightness
of light, so also man, even when fully justified, is unable to lead a holy life, unless he
be divinely assisted by the eternal light of righteousness.”(351)

This agrees with the practice of the Church in exhorting all men without exception, saints
as well as sinners, to pray: “Precede, we beseech Thee, O Lord, our actions by Thy holy inspiration,
and carry them on by Thy gracious assistance, that every prayer and work of ours may begin
always from Thee, and through Thee be happily ended.”(352)

b) Some theologians have been led by certain speculative difficulties to deny the necessity
of actual grace in the state of justification.

Man in the state of justification, they argue, is endowed with sanctifying grace, the supernatural
habits of faith, hope, and charity, and the infused moral virtues, and consequently possesses
all those qualifications which are necessary to enable him to perform salutary acts with the
supernatural concurrence of God. Why should the will, thus supernaturally equipped, require
the aid of additional actual graces to enable it to perform strictly supernatural, and therefore
salutary, actions?(353)

We reply: The necessity of actual grace in the state of justification is so clearly taught
by divine Revelation that no theological theory is tenable which denies it. Besides, the objection
we have briefly summarized disregards some very essential considerations, e.g. that there remains
in man, even after justification, concupiscence, which is accompanied by a certain weakness
that requires at least the gratia sanans sive medicinalis to heal it.(354) Furthermore, a quiescent
habitus cannot set itself in motion, but must be determined from without; that is to say, in
our case, it must be moved by the gratia excitans to elicit supernatural thoughts and to will
supernatural acts. Just as a seed cannot sprout without the aid of appropriate stimuli, so
sanctifying grace is incapable of bearing fruit unless stimulated by the sunshine and moisture
of actual graces. Man may perform purely natural acts even though he be in the supernatural
state of grace; hence if any particular act of his is to be truly supernatural and conducive
to eternal salvation, God must lend His special aid.(355)

*Thesis IV: Except by a special privilege of divine grace, man, even though he be in the state
of sanctifying grace, is unable to avoid venial sin throughout life.*

This is likewise de fide.

Proof. The Pelagians held that man is able to avoid sin, nay to attain to absolute impeccability,(356)
without supernatural assistance. Against this error the Second Council of Mileve (A. D. 416)
defined: “It likewise hath pleased [the holy Synod] that whoever holds that the words of the
Our Father: ‘Forgive us our trespasses,’ when pronounced by saintly men, are pronounced in
token of humility, but not truthfully, should be anathema.”(357) Still more to the point is
the following declaration of the Council of Trent: “If any one saith that a man once justified
... is able, during his whole life, to avoid all sins, even those that are venial, except by
a special grace from God, as the Church holds in regard of the Blessed Virgin; let him be anathema.”(358)

To obtain a better understanding of this Tridentine definition it will be well to ponder the
following considerations:

The Council declares that it is impossible for man, even in the state of sanctifying grace,
to avoid all sins during his whole life, except by virtue of a special privilege such as that
enjoyed by the Blessed Virgin Mary.(359) A venial sin is one which, because of the unimportance
of the precept involved, or in consequence of incomplete consent, does not destroy the state
of grace. Such a sin may be either deliberate or semi-deliberate. A semi-deliberate venial
sin is one committed in haste or surprise. It is chiefly sins of this kind that the Tridentine
Council had in view. For no one would seriously assert that with the aid of divine grace a
saint could not avoid at least all deliberate venial sins for a considerable length of time.
The phrase “in tota vita” indicates a period of some length, though its limits are rather difficult
to determine. Were a man to die immediately after justification, the Tridentine canon would
per accidens not apply to him. As the Council says in another place that “men, how holy and
just soever, at times fall into at least light and daily sins, which are also called venial,”(360)
it is safe practically to limit the period of possible freedom from venial sin to one day.
Theoretically, of course, it may be extended much farther. The phrase “omnia peccata” must
be interpreted collectively, not distributively, for a sin that could not be avoided would
cease to be a sin. For the same reason the term “non posse” must be understood of (moral, not
physical) disability; in other words, the difficulty of avoiding sin with the aid of ordinary
graces for any considerable length of time, is insuperable even for the just. This moral impossibility
of avoiding sin can be removed only by a special privilege, such as that enjoyed by the Blessed
Virgin Mary. It may incidentally be asked whether this privilege was also granted to other
saints, notably St. Joseph and St. John the Baptist. Suarez lays it down as a theological conclusion
that no human being has ever been or ever will be able entirely to avoid venial sin except
by a special privilege, which must in each case be proved. Palmieri maintains that the moral
impossibility of leading an absolutely sinless life without the special assistance of grace
is taught by indirection in the canons of Mileve (416) and Carthage (418), which declare that
no such life has ever been led by mortal man without that assistance.(361)

a) The Scriptural argument for our thesis was fully developed by the councils just mentioned.
The careful student will note, however, that those texts only are strictly conclusive which
positively and exclusively refer to venial sins. Thus when St. James says: “In many things
we all offend,”(362) he cannot mean that all Christians now and then necessarily commit mortal
sin. For St. John expressly declares that “Whosoever abideth in him [Christ], sinneth not.”(363)

It follows that not even the just can wholly avoid venial sin. Hence the most devout and pious
Christian may truthfully repeat the petition of the Lord’s Prayer which says: “Forgive us our
trespasses,(364) as we forgive those who trespass against us.”(365) Profoundly conscious of
the sinfulness of the entire human race, the author of the Book of Proverbs exclaims: “Who
can say, My heart is clean, I am pure from sin?”(366)

Other Scripture texts commonly cited in confirmation of our thesis lack cogency, because they
either deal exclusively with mortal sin or do not refer to sin at all. Thus Prov. XXIV, 16:
“A just man shall fall seven times and shall rise again,” is meant of temporal adversities.(367)
Eccles. VII, 21: “There is no just man upon earth, that doth good and sinneth not,”(368) can
scarcely be understood of venial sin, because the sacred writer continues: “For thy conscience
knoweth that thou also hast often spoken evil of others.”(369) 1 John I, 8: “If we say that
we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us,”(370) would be a splendid
argument for our thesis, could it be shown that the Apostle had in mind only the venial sins
committed in the state of justification. This is, however, unlikely, as the term peccatum throughout
St. John’s first Epistle(371) is obviously employed in the sense of mortal sin.(372)

b) Tradition is again most effectively voiced by St. Augustine, who writes: “There are three
points, as you know, which the Catholic Church chiefly maintains against them [the Pelagians].
One is, that the grace of God is not given according to our merits.... The second, that no
one lives in this corruptible body in righteousness of any degree without sins of any kind.
The third, that man is born obnoxious to the first man’s sin....”(373) To Pelagius’ objection:
“If all men sin, then the just must die in their sins,” the holy Doctor replies: “With all
his acuteness he [Pelagius] overlooks the circumstance that even righteous persons pray with
good reason: ‘Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.’... Even if we cannot live without
sin, we may yet die without sin, whilst the sin committed in ignorance or infirmity is blotted
out in merciful forgiveness.”(374) In another chapter of the same treatise he says: “If ...
we could assemble all the afore-mentioned holy men and women, and ask them whether they lived
without sin, ... would they not all exclaim with one voice: ‘If we say we have no sin, we deceive
ourselves, and the truth is not in us’?”(375)

c) We come to the theological argument. The moral impossibility of avoiding venial sin for
any considerable length of time results partly from the infirmity of human nature (infirmitas
naturae), partly from God’s pre-established plan of salvation (ordo divinae providentiae).

α) The infirmity of human nature flows from four separate and distinct sources: (1) concupiscence
(fomes peccati); (2) imperfection of the ethical judgment (imperfectio iudicii); (3) inconstancy
of the will (inconstantia voluntatis); and (4) the weariness caused by continued resistance
to temptation. In view of these agencies and their combined attack upon the will, theologians
speak of a necessitas antecedens peccandi;—not as if the will were predestined to succumb to
any one temptation in particular, but in the sense that it is morally unable to resist the
whole series (suppositione disiunctâ). The will simply grows weaker and weaker, and in course
of time fails to resist sin with sufficient energy.

Let us exemplify. The proofsheets of a book are scrutinized by several trained readers, yet
in spite of the greatest care and many ingenious devices for the elimination of error, a perfect
book, i.e. one entirely free from mistakes, is a practical impossibility. How much harder must
it be for man to avoid moral lapses throughout his whole life, considering that he cannot choose
his own time for meeting temptations, but must keep his mind and will under constant control
and be prepared to resist the enemy at any moment.(376)

St. Thomas Aquinas says: “Man cannot avoid all venial sin, because his sensual appetite is
depraved. True, reason is able to suppress the individual stirrings of this appetite. In fact,
it is on this account that they are voluntary and partake of the nature of sin. But reason
is not able to suppress them all [collectively], because, while it tries to resist one, there
perhaps arises another, and, furthermore, reason is not always in a condition to exercise the
vigilance necessary to avoid such impulses.”(377)

It follows that the necessitas peccandi antecedens does not destroy the liberty of the will
or the moral imputability of those venial sins which a man actually commits; for it is merely
a necessitas indeterminata, which refers not to certain particular instances, but to the one
or other indeterminately. It follows further that God does not command the impossible when
He insists that we should avoid venial sin, for He does not in each single case command something
which is physically or morally impossible,(378) but merely demands a perfection which in itself
is not entirely unattainable hic et nunc with the assistance of ordinary grace.(379)

β) The second theological reason for the impossibility of avoiding venial sin for any considerable
time is based on the eternal scheme of salvation decreed by Divine Providence. This scheme
of salvation must not, of course, be conceived as a divine precept to commit venial sins. It
is merely a wise toleration of sin and a just refusal, on the part of the Almighty, to restore
the human race to that entirely unmerited state of freedom from concupiscence with which it
was endowed in Paradise, and which alone could guarantee the moral possibility of unspotted
innocence. Both factors in their last analysis are based upon the will of God to exercise those
whom He has justified in humility and to safeguard us against pride, which is the deadliest
enemy of our salvation.(380) In making this wise decree God, of course, infallibly foresaw
that no man (with the sole exception of those to whom He might grant a special privilege) would
de facto be able to pass through life without committing venial sins. This infallible foreknowledge
is based not alone on the scientia media, but also on the infirmity of human nature.

Hence Suarez was entirely justified in rejecting the singular opinion of de Vega,(381) that
the Tridentine definition does not exclude the possibility of exceptions.(382)

Nevertheless the faithful are wisely warned against both indifference and despondency. “Let
no one say that he is without sin, but let us not for this reason love sin. Let us detest sin,
brethren. Though we are not without sins, let us hate them; especially let us avoid grievous
sins, and venial sins, too, as much as we can.”(383)

*Thesis V: No man can persevere in righteousness without special help from God.*

This proposition is also de fide.

Proof. The Semipelagians asserted that man is able by his own power to persevere in righteousness
to the end.(384) Against this teaching the Second Council of Orange defined: “Even those who
are reborn and holy must implore the help of God, in order that they may be enabled to attain
the good end, or to persevere in the good work.”(385) This definition was repeated in substance
by the Council of Trent: “If any one saith that the justified either is able without the special
help of God to persevere in the justice received, or that, with that help, he is not able;
let him be anathema.”(386)

Perfect perseverance is the preservation of baptismal innocence, or, in a less strict sense,
of the state of grace, until death. Imperfect perseverance is a temporary continuance in grace,
e.g. for a month or a year, until the next mortal sin. Imperfect perseverance, according to
the Tridentine Council, requires no special divine assistance (speciale auxilium).(387)

Final perseverance is either passive or active, according as the justified dies in the state
of grace irrespective of his will (as baptized children and insane adults),(388) or actively
coöperates with grace whenever the state of grace is imperilled by grievous temptation. The
Council of Trent has especially this latter case in view when it speaks of the necessity of
a speciale auxilium, because the special help extended by God presupposes coöperation with
grace, and man cannot strictly speaking coöperate in a happy death. The Council purposely speaks
of an auxilium, not a privilegium, because a privilege is by its very nature granted to but
few, while the special help of grace extends to all the elect. This auxilium is designated
as speciale, because final perseverance is not conferred with sanctifying grace, nor is it
a result of the mere power of perseverance (posse perseverare). The state of sanctifying grace
simply confers a claim to ordinary graces, while the power of perseverance of itself by no
means insures actual perseverance (actu perseverare). The power of perseverance is assured
by those merely sufficient graces which are constantly at the command of the righteous. Actual
perseverance, on the other hand, implies a series of efficacious graces. God is under no obligation
to bestow more than sufficient grace on any man; consequently, final perseverance is a special
grace, or, more correctly, a continuous series of efficacious graces. The Council of Trent
is therefore justified in speaking of it as “a great gift.”(389)

a) Sacred Scripture represents final perseverance as the fruit of prayer and as a special gift
not included in the bare notion of justification.

α) Our Divine Saviour Himself says in His prayer for His disciples, John XVII, 11: “Holy Father,
keep them in thy name whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we also are.”(390)
St. Paul teaches in his Epistle to the Colossians: “Epaphras saluteth you ... who is always
solicitous for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and full in all the will of God.”(391)
Hence the necessity of constantly watching and praying: “Watch ye and pray that ye enter not
into temptation.”(392)

β) That perseverance is not included in the bare notion of justification appears from such
passages as these: Phil. I, 5: “Who, by the power of God, are kept by faith unto salvation,
ready to be revealed in the last time.”(394)

b) The threads of Tradition run together in the hands of St. Augustine, who has written a special
treatise On the Gift of Perseverance.(395)

His main argument is based on the necessity of prayer. “Why,” he asks, “is that perseverance
asked for from God, if it is not given by God? Is it a mocking petition inasmuch as that is
asked of Him which it is known He does not give, but, although He gives it not, is in man’s
power?... Or is not that perseverance, perchance, asked for from Him? He who says this, is
not to be rebuked by my arguments, but must be overwhelmed with the prayers of the saints.
Is there indeed one among them who do not ask for themselves from God that they may persevere
in Him, when in that very prayer which is called the Lord’s—because the Lord taught it—whenever
it is prayed by the saints, scarcely anything else is understood to be prayed for but perseverance?”(396)
He then proceeds to show, in accordance with St. Cyprian’s little treatise On the Lord’s Prayer,
that the seven petitions of the “Our Father” are all prayers for perseverance, and concludes
as follows: “Truly in this matter let not the Church look for laborious disputations, but consider
her own daily prayers. She prays that the unbelieving may believe; therefore God converts to
the faith. She prays that believers may persevere; therefore God gives perseverance to the
end.”(397) And again: “For who is there that would groan with a sincere desire to receive what
he prays for from the Lord, if he thought that he received it from himself and not from the
Lord?”(398)

c) From this teaching flows a corollary of great practical importance, to wit: The grace of
final perseverance cannot be merited by good works, but it can be obtained by pious and unremitting
prayer.

“This gift of God,” says St. Augustine, speaking of final perseverance, “may be obtained suppliantly
[by prayer], but when it has been given, it cannot be lost contumaciously.”(399) And again:
“Since it is manifest that God has prepared some things to be given even to those who do not
pray for them, such as the beginning of faith, and other things not to be given except to those
who pray for them, such as perseverance unto the end, certainly he who thinks that he has this
latter from himself, does not pray to obtain it.”(400)

Between merit (meritum) and prayer (oratio, preces) there is this great difference, that merit
appeals to God’s justice, prayer to His mercy. If man were able to merit final perseverance
by good works (meritum de condigno), God would be in justice bound to give him this precious
grace. But this is plainly incompatible with the Catholic conception of final perseverance.

It may be asked: Is God determined by the meritum de congruo inherent in all good works to
grant the gift of final perseverance as a reward to the righteous? Theologians are at variance
on this point. Ripalda(401) thinks that this is the case at least with the more conspicuous
good works performed in the state of grace. Suarez modifies this improbable contention somewhat
by saying that prayer alone can infallibly guarantee final perseverance.(402) Our prayers are
infallibly heard if we address the Father through Jesus Christ, because Christ has promised:
“If you ask the Father anything in my name, he will give it you.”(403) To insure its being
infallibly heard, prayer for perseverance must be made in the state of grace and unremittingly.
True, Christ did not make sanctifying grace a necessary condition of efficacious prayer. But,
as Suarez points out, prayer cannot be infallibly efficacious unless it proceeds from one who
is in the state of grace, because the moral conditions that render it efficacious are found
only in that state.(404) As to the second point, if we say that prayer for perseverance must
be unremitting, we mean, in the words of the same eminent theologian, that it must continue
throughout life and must be made with becoming trustfulness and zeal, especially when there
is a duty to be fulfilled or a temptation to be overcome.(405)

    READINGS:—Suarez, De Gratia, 1. I-II.—*Tricassin, O. Cap., De
    Necessaria ad Salutem Gratia.—Byonius, De Gratiae Auxiliis, in
    Becanus, Theologia Scholastica, Rouen, 1658.—Scheeben Natur und
    Gnade, Mainz 1861.—IDEM, Dogmatik, Vol. III, § 292-298,
    Freiburg 1882.—*Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 19-29,
    Gulpen 1885.—Oswald, Lehre von der Heiligung, § 9-11, 3rd ed.,
    Paderborn 1885.—Tepe, Institutiones Theologicae, Vol. III, pp.
    8-51, Paris 1896.—*Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie,
    Vol. VIII, § 396-416, Mainz 1897.—Chr. Pesch, Praelectiones
    Dogmaticae, Vol. V, 3rd ed., pp. 32 sqq., Freiburg
    1908.—Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, disp. 2, Freiburg 1901.

    On St. Augustine and his teaching cfr. *J. Ernst, Werke und
    Tugenden der Ungläubigen nach Augustinus, Freiburg 1871.—F.
    Wörter, Die Geistesentwicklung des hl. Augustinus bis zu seiner
    Taufe, Paderborn 1898.—Wolfsgruber, Augustinus, Paderborn
    1898.—Boucat, Theologia Patrum Dogmatico-Scholastico-Positiva,
    disp. 3, Paris 1718.—*Zaccaria, Dissert. de Adiutorio sine quo
    non, in the Thesaurus Theol., Vol. V, Venice 1762.—O.
    Rottmanner, O. S. B., Geistesfrüchte aus der Klosterzelle,
    München 1908.—B. J. Otten, S. J., A Manual of the History of
    Dogmas, Vol. I, St. Louis 1917, pp. 306 sqq., 374 sq.

    On the heresy of Pelagianism cfr. *F. Wörter, Der Pelagianismus
    nach seinem Ursprung und seiner Lehre, Freiburg 1874.—F. Klasen,
    Die innere Entwicklung des Pelagianismus, Freiburg
    1882.—Schwane, Dogmengeschichte, Vol. II, 2nd ed., § 60 sqq.,
    Freiburg 1895.—H. Zimmer, Pelagius in Irland, Berlin
    1901.—Warfield, Two Studies in the History of Doctrine, New York
    1897.—Tixeront, Histoire des Dogmes, Vol. II, 2nd ed., Paris
    1909 (English tr., St. Louis 1914).—Pohle in the Catholic
    Encyclopedia, Vol. XI, pp. 604-608.—B. J. Otten, S. J., A Manual
    of the History of Dogmas, Vol. I, pp. 357 sqq.

    On Semi-Pelagianism cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, Prolegom., V, 5
    sqq.—Livinus Meyer, De Pelag. et Semipelag. Erroribus.—Wiggers,
    Geschichte des Semipelagianismus, Hamburg 1835.—A. Hoch, Lehre
    des Johannes Cassianus von Natur und Gnade, Freiburg 1895.—*A.
    Koch, Der hl. Faustus, Bischof von Riez, Stuttgart 1895.—Fr. XIII,
    pp. 703-706.—B. J. Otten, S. J., A Manual of the History of
    Dogmas, Vol. I, pp. 379 sqq.

    On Jansenism cfr. *Steph. Dechamps, De Haeresi Ianseniana, Paris
    1645.—Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, Vol. III: “Contra Baium et
    Baianos,” Cologne 1648.—Duchesne, Histoire du Baianisme, Douai
    1731.—*Linsenmann, Michael Bajus und die Grundlegung des
    Jansenismus, Tübingen 1867.—A. Schill, Die Konstitution
    Unigenitus, ihre Veranlassung und ihre Folgen, Freiburg
    1876.—Ingold, Rome et France: La Seconde Phase du Jansénisme,
    Paris 1901.—P. Minges, O. F. M., Die Gnadenlehre des Duns Scotus
    auf ihren angeblichen Pelagianismus und Semipelagianismus
    geprüft, Münster 1906.—Lafiteau, Histoire de la Constitution
    Unigenitus, 2 vols., Liège 1738.—Van den Peereboom, Cornelius
    Jansenius, Septième Évêque d’Ypres, Bruges 1882.—J. Forget in the
    Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. VIII, pp. 285-294.—B. J. Otten, S.
    J., A Manual of the History of Dogmas, Vol. II, pp. 507 sqq.

Section 2. The Gratuity Of Actual Grace

All grace ex vi termini is a free gift.(406) This applies particularly to Christian grace,
which is so absolutely gratuitous that its gratuity, together with its necessity, may be called
the groundwork of the Catholic religion.

1. STATE OF THE QUESTION.—To show what is meant by “gratuity” (gratuitas) we must first explain
the technical term “merit.”

a) “Merit” (meritum=that which is earned) is that property of a good work which entitles the
performer to receive a reward from him to whose advantage the work redounds.

α) An analysis of this definition shows that (1) merit is found only in such works as are positively
good; (2) merit and reward are correlative terms which postulate each other; (3) merit supposes
two distinct persons, one who deserves and another who awards; (4) the relation between merit
and reward is based on justice, not on benevolence or mercy. The last-mentioned determination
is by far the most important of the four.(407)

β) Ethics and theology clearly distinguish two kinds of merit: (1) condign merit,(408) which
is merit in the strict sense (meritum adaequatum sive de condigno), and (2) congruous merit
(meritum inadaequatum sive de congruo), so called because of the congruity, or fitness, that
the claim should be recognized. Condign merit presupposes some proportion between the work
done and the reward given in compensation for it (aequalitas s. condignitas dati et accepti).
It is measured by commutative justice and thus confers a real claim to a reward. For example,
a conscientious workman has a strict claim to his wage. Owing to the lack of intrinsic proportion
between service and reward, congruous merit can claim a remuneration only on grounds of fairness.

A distinction between these two kinds of merit was already made by the Fathers, though not
in the terms of present-day theology. It was known to the older Scholastics and emphasized
anew by Luther’s famous adversary Johann Eck.(409)

No relation of strict justice is conceivable between the Creator and His creatures. On the
part of God there can only be question of a gratuitous promise to reward certain good works,—which
promise He is bound to keep because He is veracious and faithful.(410)

b) Two other terms must also be clearly defined in order to arrive at a true conception of
the gratuity of Christian grace. They are prayer for grace,(411) and a capacity or disposition
to receive it.(412) To pray means to incite God’s liberality or mercy by humble supplication.

α) Despite the contrary teaching of Vasquez(413) and a few other theologians, congruous merit
and prayer are really distinct because one can exist without the other. As the angels in Heaven
are able to pray for us without earning a meritum de congruo, so conversely, all salutary works
are meritorious even without prayer. Moreover, humble supplication does not involve any positive
service entitled to a reward.

There is another important and obvious distinction, viz.: between purely natural prayer (preces
naturae) and supernatural prayer inspired by grace (oratio supernaturalis).

β) Capacity or disposition, especially when it takes the form of preparation, may be either
positive or negative. Positive capacity is defined as “that real mode by which a subject, in
itself indifferent, becomes apt to receive a new form.” Such a capacity or disposition always
entails a claim to its respective form.

Positive capacity or disposition differs from both prayer or quasi-merit (meritum de congruo).
Quasi-merit is entitled to a reward on the ground of fairness, whereas the capacitas s. dispositio
positiva is at most the fulfilment of an expectation based upon purely teleological considerations.
Again, a reward can be bestowed upon some subject other than the one by whom the service was
rendered, whereas the introduction of a new form necessarily supposes a subject disposed for
or prepared to receive it. Thus only he who is hungry is disposed for the reception of food
and entitled to have his craving satisfied.

Negative capacity consists in the absence or removal of obstacles that impede the reception
of a new form, as when green wood is dried to become fit for burning.

c) There arises the important question whether or not divine grace is an object of merit, and
if so, to what extent it can be merited by prayer and preparation.

It is of faith that the just man, by the performance of supernaturally good deeds, can merit
de condigno an increase in the state of grace and eternal glory, and that the sinner is able
to earn justification de congruo. On the other hand, it is also an article of faith that divine
grace is strictly gratuitous.(414) The two dogmas seem incompatible, but they are not, as will
become evident if we consider that the good works of the just and the salutary works of the
sinner are entirely rooted in divine grace and consequently the merits which they contain are
strictly merits of grace in no wise due to nature.(415) When we speak of the absolute gratuity
of grace, therefore, we mean the very first or initial grace (gratia prima vocans), by which
the work of salvation is begun. Of this initial grace the Church explicitly teaches that it
is absolutely incapable of being merited; whence it follows that all subsequent graces, up
to and including justification, are also gratuitous,(416) i.e. unmerited by nature in strict
justice, in so far as they are based on the gratia prima.

2. THE GRATUITY OF GRACE PROVED FROM REVELATION.—Keeping the above explanation well in mind
we now proceed to demonstrate the gratuity of divine grace in five systematic theses.

*Thesis I: Mere nature cannot, in strict justice (de condigno), merit initial grace (gratia
prima), nor, consequently, any of the series of subsequent graces in the order of justification.*

This proposition embodies an article of faith.

Proof. It was one of the fundamental errors of Pelagius that grace can be merited by purely
natural acts.(417) When, at the instance of the bishops assembled at Diospolis (A. D. 415),
he retracted his proposition that “the grace of God is given according to our merits,”(418)
he employed the term gratia Dei dishonestly for the grace of creation.

The Apostle regards the merciful dispensations of Providence in favor of the Chosen People,
and of the entire sinful race of men in general, as so many sheer graces. For if grace is by
merit, thou hast bought, not received gratis.”(427)

c) The theological argument is based (1) on the disproportion between nature and grace and
(2) on the absolute necessity of grace for the performance of salutary works.

There is no proportion between the natural and the supernatural, and it would be a contradiction
to say that mere nature can span the chasm separating the two orders. To assume the existence
of a strict meritum naturae for it, would be to deny the gratuity as well as the supernatural
character of grace. To deny these would be to deny grace itself and with it the whole supernatural
order that forms the groundwork of Christianity. We know, on the other hand,(428) that grace
is absolutely indispensable for the performance of salutary acts. Hence, to deny the gratuity
of grace would be to credit nature with the ability to perform salutary acts by its own power,
or at least to merit grace by the performance of naturally good deeds. In the first hypothesis
grace would no longer be necessary for salvation; in the second, it would be proportionate
to natural goodness, and therefore no grace at all. Consequently, the gratuity of grace cannot
be consistently denied without at the same time denying its necessity.(429)

*Thesis II: There is no naturally good work by which unaided nature could acquire even so much
as an equitable claim to supernatural grace.*

This proposition may be technically qualified as fidei proxima saltem.

Proof. The Semipelagians held that, though nature cannot merit grace in strict justice, it
can merit it at least congruously, i.e. as a matter of fitness or equity.(430) This contention
was rejected by the Second Council of Orange (A. D. 529), which defined that “God works many
good things in man that man does not work, but man works no good deeds that God does not give
him the strength to do.”(431) And again: “[God] Himself inspires us with faith and charity
without any preceding [natural] merits [on our part].”(432) The phrase “without any preceding
merits” (nullis praecedentibus meritis) excludes both the meritum de condigno and the meritum
de congruo.

a) The Scriptural argument given above for thesis I also covers this thesis.

The Semipelagians quoted Matth. XXV, 15 in support of their teaching: “To one he gave five
talents, and to another two, and to another one, to every one according to his proper ability.”(433)
But this text is too vague to serve as an argument in such an important matter. Not a few exegetes
treat it as a kind of rhetorical figure. Others, following the example of the Fathers, take
“talents” to mean purely natural gifts, or gratiae gratis datae, while by “ability” (virtus)
they understand the already existing grace of faith or a certain definite measure of initial
grace.(434) But even if virtus meant natural faculty or talent, it cannot be identical with
“merit.” Considering the common teaching of theologians that the angels were endowed with grace
according to the measure of their natural perfection,(435) we may well suppose that man receives
grace likewise according to his natural constitution (gratia sequitur naturam)—a predisposition
or aptitude which God ordained in His infinite wisdom to be the instrument through which His
graces should operate either for personal sanctification or the good of others.

b) St. Augustine and his disciples, in defending the orthodox faith against the Semipelagians,
strongly insisted on the gratuity of the grace of faith, and above all of the initial gratia
praeveniens.

α) St. Augustine comments on 1 Cor. IV, 7 as follows: “Nothing is so opposed to this feeling
as for any one to glory concerning his own merits in such a way as if he himself had made them
for himself, and not the grace of God,—a grace, however, which makes the good to differ from
the wicked, and is not common to the good and the wicked.”(436) And in another place he says:
“For it would not in any sense be the grace of God, were it not in every sense gratuitous.”(437)

β) Certain of the Greek Fathers have been suspected of Semipelagian leanings because they appear
to assign the chief rôle in the business of salvation to nature.(438) A careful study of their
writings, however, shows that these authors had in mind co-operating, not prevenient grace.
The general teaching of the Orientals on the gratuity of grace is sufficiently indicated by
the demand made at the Council of Lydda (A. D. 415), that Pelagius be compelled to retract
the proposition: “Gratiam Dei secundum merita nostra dari.” The Fathers who have been accused
of Semipelagian sympathies merely wished to emphasize free-will and to incite the morally indifferent
to co-operate heartily with divine grace.

St. Chrysostom, in particular, expressly asserts the absolute gratuity of grace when he says
of faith: “That which is a merit of faith, may not be ascribed to us, for it is a free gift
of God,”(439) and directly contradicts Cassian and the Massilians when he declares: “Thou hast
it not of thyself, thou hast received it from God. Hence thou hast received whatever thou hast,
not only this or that, but all thou hast. For it is not thine own merit, but the grace of God.
Although thou allegest the faith, thou hast received it by vocation.”(440)

c) The theological argument for our thesis may be succinctly stated thus: The grace of God
is the cause of our merits, and hence cannot be itself merited. Being the cause, it cannot
be an effect.(441)

*Thesis III: Nature cannot merit supernatural grace even by natural prayer.*

This thesis, like the preceding one, may be technically qualified as fidei proxima saltem.

Proof. Let us first clearly establish the state of the question. Our thesis refers to that
particular kind of prayer (preces naturae) which by its intrinsic value, so to speak, obliges
Almighty God to grant what the petitioner asks for, as is undoubtedly the case with supernatural
prayer, according to our Saviour’s own promise: “Ask and ye shall receive.”(442) The inefficacy
of natural prayer asserted in our thesis, is not, as in the case of merit,(443) due to any
intrinsic impossibility, but to a positive divine decree to grant supernatural prayer.

The Second Council of Orange defined against the Semipelagians: “If any one says that the grace
of God can be obtained by human [i.e. natural] prayer, and that it is not grace itself which
causes us to invoke God, he contradicts the prophet Isaias and the Apostle who say: I was found
by them that did not seek me; I appeared openly to them that asked not after me.”(444)

a) Sacred Scripture teaches that, unless we are inspired by the Holy Ghost, we cannot pray
efficaciously. It follows that to be efficacious, prayer must be an effect of prevenient grace.
We should not even know for what or how to pray, if the Holy Ghost did not inspire us. Cfr.
Rom. VIII, 26: “For we know not what we should pray for as we ought; but the Spirit himself
asketh for us [inspires us to ask] with unspeakable groanings.”(445) 1 Cor. XII, 3: “No man
can say: Lord God, but by the Holy Ghost.”(446) Supernatural union with Christ is an indispensable
condition of all efficacious prayer. John XV, 7: “If you abide in me, and my words abide in
you, you shall ask whatever you will, and it shall be done unto you.”(447)

b) This is also the teaching of the Fathers. “Who would truly groan, desiring to receive what
he prays for from the Lord,” says St. Augustine,(448) “if he thought that he received it from
himself, and not from God? ... We understand that this is also itself the gift of God, that
with a true heart and spiritually we cry to God. Let them, therefore, observe how they are
mistaken who think that our seeking, asking, knocking is of ourselves, and is not given to
us; and say that this is the case because grace is preceded by our merits; that it follows
them when we ask and receive, and seek and find, and it is opened to us when we knock.”(449)

c) From the theological point of view the inefficacy of purely natural prayer in matters pertaining
to salvation can be demonstrated thus: Revelation tells us that the work of salvation requires
for its beginning an initial supernatural grace. Now prayer, that is to say, efficacious prayer,
is in itself a salutary act. Consequently, there can be no efficacious prayer without prevenient
grace, and purely natural prayer is inefficacious for salvation.

Ripalda holds that, in an economy different from the present, natural prayer would have a claim
to be heard. This opinion can be defended without prejudice to the dogma of the gratuity of
grace. No doubt God might condescend to hear such petitions if He would, though, of course,
He is not bound to do so by any intrinsic power inherent in natural prayer. Unlike merit, prayer
appeals to the mercy of God, not to His justice. Ripalda’s theory, however, rests upon an unprovable
assumption, namely, that man in the state of pure nature would be able to know of the existence,
or at least the possibility, of a supernatural order and to strive for the beatific vision
as his final end.(450)

*Thesis IV: Man cannot move God to the bestowal of supernatural grace by any positive disposition
or preparation on his part.*

This thesis may be qualified as propositio certa.

Proof. Positive preparation or disposition for grace (capacitas sive praeparatio positiva)
is practically on a level with natural prayer. The positive disposition for a natural good
sometimes includes a certain demand to satisfaction, as e.g. thirst demands to be quenched.
This is still more the case when the disposition has been acquired by a positive preparation
for the good in question. Thus a student, by conscientiously preparing himself for examination,
acquires a claim to be admitted to it sooner or later. Can this also be said of grace? Does
there exist in man a positive disposition for grace in the sense that the withholding of it
would grievously injure and disappoint the soul? Can man, without supernatural aid, positively
dispose himself for the reception of supernatural grace, confident that God will reward his
efforts by bestowing it on him? Both these questions must be answered in the negative.

a) If there were something in the natural make-up of man which would move the Almighty to give
him grace, the bestowal of grace would no longer be a free act of God. But to assert the consequent
would be Semipelagian, hence the antecedent must be false.

b) This truth can easily be deduced from the teaching of the Fathers in the Semipelagian controversy.
They declare, in perfect conformity with St. Paul, that grace is bestowed gratuitously because
God can give or withhold it as He pleases. St. Augustine says(451) that the grace of Baptism
is granted freely, that is, without regard to any positive disposition on the part of the baptized
infant. It should be remembered, moreover, that nature never existed in its pure form, and
is now tainted by original sin.(452) Surely a nature tainted by sin cannot possibly possess
the power of meriting divine grace.

c) The contention of the so-called Augustinians, that pure nature needs actual grace to save
itself, and consequently has a claim to such grace at least ex decentia Creatoris and ex lege
iustissimae providentiae, perilously resembles Baius’ condemned proposition that the state
of pure nature is impossible.(453)

*Thesis V: Man may prepare himself negatively for the reception of supernatural grace by not
putting any obstacles in its way.*

This proposition is held by a majority of Catholic theologians (sententia communior).

Proof. The solution of this question is intimately connected with the famous Scholastic axiom:
“Facienti quod est in se Deus non denegat gratiam,” that is, to the man who does what he can,
God does not refuse grace. This axiom is susceptible of three different interpretations.

a) It may mean: Facienti quod est in se cum auxilio gratiae Deus confert ulteriorem gratiam,
i.e., to him who does what he can with the help of supernatural grace, God grants further and
more powerful graces up to justification. This is merely another way of stating the indisputable
truth that, by faithfully coöperating with the grace of God, man is able to merit additional
graces, and it holds true even of infidels and sinners. The first freely performed salutary
act establishes a meritum de congruo towards other acts disposing a man for justification.
And since the first as well as all subsequent salutary acts, in this hypothesis, are pure graces,
this interpretation of our axiom is entirely compatible with the dogma of the gratuity of grace.(454)

b) Facienti quod est in se ex viribus naturalibus Deus non denegat gratiam (to him who does
what he can with his natural moral strength, God does not refuse grace.) This does not mean
that, in consequence of the efforts of the natural will, God may not withhold from anyone the
first grace of vocation. In this sense the axiom would be Semipelagian, and has been rejected
by a majority of the Schoolmen. It is said of Molina that he tried to render it acceptable
by the hypothesis that God bound Himself by a contract with Christ to give His grace to all
men who would make good use of their natural faculties. But how could the existence of this
imaginary contract be proved? In matter of fact Molina taught, with a large number of other
divines,(455) that God in the bestowal of His graces freely bound Himself to a definite rule,
which coincides with His universal will to save all mankind. In the application of this law
He pays no regard to any positive disposition or preparation, but merely to the presence or
absence of obstacles which would prove impediments to grace. In other words, God, generally
speaking, is more inclined to offer His grace to one who puts no obstacles in its way than
to one who wallows in sin and neglects to do his share.(456)

c) Facienti quod est in se ex viribus naturae negative se disponendo [i.e. obicem non ponendo]
Deus non denegat gratiam (to the man who does what he can with his natural moral strength,
disposing himself negatively [i.e., by not placing any obstacle] God does not deny grace. In
this form the axiom is identical with our thesis. The question arises: Can it be made to square
with the dogma of the absolute gratuity of grace? Vasquez,(457) Glossner,(458) and some others
answer this question in the negative, whereas the great majority of Catholic theologians hold
with Suarez(459) and Lessius,(460) that there is no contradiction between the two. It merely
means that man is positively unworthy of divine favor. Otherwise the Church could not teach,
as she does, that the grace bestowed on the angels and on our first parents in Paradise was
absolutely gratuitous, nor could she hold that the Hypostatic Union of the two natures in Christ,
which is the pattern and exemplar of all true grace,(463) was a pure grace in respect of the
humanity of our Lord. The dogma of the gratuity of grace is in no danger whatever so long as
the relation between negative disposition and supernatural grace is conceived as actual (facienti=qui
facit), not causal (facienti=quia facit). The motive for the distribution of grace is to be
sought not in the dignity of human nature, but in God’s will to save all men. We must, however,
guard against the erroneous notion that grace is bestowed according to a fixed law or an infallible
norm regulating the amount of grace in accordance with the condition of the recipient. Sometimes
great sinners are miraculously converted, while others of fairly good antecedents perish. Yet,
again, who could say that to the omniscient and all-wise God the great sinner did not appear
better fitted to receive grace than the “decent” but self-sufficient pharisee?

    READINGS:—Hurter, Compendium Theologiae Dogmaticae, Vol. III,
    thes.

Section 3. The Universality Of Actual Grace

The gratuity of grace does not conflict with its universality. Though God distributes His graces
freely, He grants them to all men without exception, because He wills all to be saved.

This divine “will to save” (voluntas Dei salvifica) may be regarded in relation either to the
wayfaring state or to the status termini. Regarded from the first-mentioned point of view it
is a merciful will (voluntas misericordiae) and is generally called first or antecedent will
(voluntas prima s. antecedens) or God’s salvific will (voluntas Dei salvifica) in the strict
sense of the word. Considered in relation to the status termini, it is a just will, as God
rewards or punishes each creature according to its deserts. This second or consequent will
(voluntas secunda s. consequens) is called “predestination” in so far as it rewards the just,
and “reprobation” in so far as it punishes the wicked.

God’s “will to save” may therefore be defined as an earnest and sincere desire to justify all
men and make them supernaturally happy. As voluntas antecedens it is conditional, depending
on the free co-operation of man; as voluntas consequens, on the other hand, it is absolute,
because God owes it to His justice to reward or punish every man according to his deserts.(464)

Hence we shall treat in four distinct articles, (1) Of the universality of God’s will to save;
(2) Of the divine voluntas salvifica as the will to give sufficient graces to all adult human
beings without exception; (3) Of predestination, and (4) Of reprobation.

Article 1. The Universality Of God’s Will To Save

Although God’s will to save all men is practically identical with His will to redeem all,(465)
a formal distinction must be drawn between the two, (a) because there is a difference in the
Scriptural proofs by which either is supported, and (b) because the latter involves the fate
of the fallen angels, while the former suggests a question peculiar to itself, viz. the fate
of unbaptized children.

*Thesis I: God sincerely wills the salvation, not only of the predestined, but of all the faithful
without exception.*

This proposition embodies an article of faith.

Proof. Its chief opponents are the Calvinists and the Jansenists, who heretically maintain
that God wills to save none but the predestined. Against Calvin the Tridentine Council defined:
“If any one saith that the grace of justification is attained only by those who are predestined
unto life, but that all others who are called, are called indeed, but receive not grace, as
being, by the divine power, predestined unto evil; let him be anathema.”(466)

The teaching of Jansenius that Christ died exclusively for the predestined,(467) was censured
as “heretical” by Pope Innocent X. Hence it is of faith that Christ died for others besides
the predestined. Who are these “others”? As the Church obliges all her children to pray: “[Christ]
descended from heaven for us men and for our salvation,”(468) it is certain that at least all
the faithful are included in the saving will of God. We say, “at least all the faithful,” because
in matter of fact the divine voluntas salvifica extends to all the descendants of Adam, as
we shall show further on.(469)

a) Holy Scripture positively declares in a number of passages that God wills the salvation
of all believers, whether predestined or not. Jesus Himself says in regard to the Jews: Matth.
Now, some who were once in the state of grace are eternally lost. Consequently, God also wills
the salvation of those among the faithful who do not actually attain to salvation and who are,
therefore, not predestined.

*Thesis II: God wills to save every human being.*

This proposition is fidei proxima saltem.

Proof. The existence of original sin is no reason why God should exclude some men from the
benefits of the atonement, as was alleged by the Calvinistic “Infralapsarians.” Our thesis
is so solidly grounded on Scripture and Tradition that some theologians unhesitatingly call
it an article of faith.

a) We shall confine the Scriptural demonstration to two classical passages, Wisd. XI, 24 sq.
and 1 Tim. II, 1 sqq.

α) The Book of Wisdom, after extolling God’s omnipotence, says of His mercy: “But thou hast
mercy upon all, because thou canst do all things, and overlookest the sins of men for the sake
of repentance. Misereris omnium, parcis omnibus. This universality is based (1) on His omnipotence
(quia omnia potes), which is unlimited. His mercy, being equally boundless, must therefore
include all men without exception. The universality of God’s mercy is based (2) on His universal
over-lordship and dominion (quoniam tua sunt; diligis omnia quae fecisti). As there is no creature
that does not belong to God, so there is no man whom He does not love and to whom He does not
show mercy. The universality of God’s mercy in the passage quoted is based (3) on His love
for souls (qui amas animas). Wherever there is an immortal soul (be it in child or adult, Christian,
pagan or Jew), God is at work to save it. Consequently the divine voluntas salvifica is universal,
not only in a moral, but in the physical sense of the term, that is, it embraces all the descendants
of Adam.

β) 1 Tim. Because God “will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.”
In other words, God’s will to save is universal.

The question arises: Is the universality of the divine voluntas salvifica, as inculcated by
St. Paul, merely moral, or is it physical, admitting of no exceptions? The answer may be found
in the threefold reason given by the Apostle: the oneness of God, the mediatorship of Christ,
and the universality of the Redemption. (1) “For there is [but] one God.”(474) As truly, therefore,
as God is the God of all men without exception, is each and every man included in the divine
voluntas salvifica. Hence, whoever is a man, has Jesus Christ for his mediator.(475) (3) Christ
“gave himself a redemption [i.e. died] for all.” That is to say, God’s will to save is co-extensive
with His will to redeem. The latter is universal,(476) consequently also the former.(477)

b) The Fathers and early ecclesiastical writers were wont to base their teaching in this matter
on the above-quoted texts, and clearly intimated that they regarded the truth therein set forth
as divinely revealed. Passaglia(478) has worked out the Patristic argument in detail, quoting
no less than two hundred authorities.

α) We must limit ourselves to a few specimen citations. St. Ambrose declares that God wills
to save all men. “He willed all to be His own whom He established and created. O man, do not
flee and hide thyself! He wants even those who flee, and does not will that those in hiding
should perish.”(479) St. Gregory of Nazianzus holds God’s voluntas salvifica to be co-extensive
in scope with original sin and the atonement. “The law, the prophets, and the sufferings of
Christ,” he says, “by which we were redeemed, are common property and admit of no exception:
but as all [men] are participators in the same Adam, deceived by the serpent and subject to
death in consequence of sin, so by the heavenly Adam all are restored to salvation and by the
wood of ignominy recalled to the wood of life, from which we had fallen.”(480) St. Prosper
concludes that, since all men are in duty bound to pray for their fellowmen, God must needs
be willing to save all without exception. “We must sincerely believe,” he says, “that God wills
all men to be saved, since the Apostle solicitously prescribes supplication to be made for
all.”(481) The question why so many perish, Prosper answers as follows: “[God] wills all to
be saved and to come to the knowledge of truth, ... so that those who are saved, are saved
because He wills them to be saved, while those who perish, perish because they deserve to perish.”(482)
In his Responsiones ad Capitula Obiectionum Vincentianarum the same writer energetically defends
St. Augustine against the accusation that his teaching on predestination is incompatible with
the orthodox doctrine of the universality of God’s saving will.(483)

β) St. Augustine aroused suspicion in the camp of the Semipelagians by his general teaching
on predestination and more particularly by his interpretation of 1 Tim. II, 4. The great Bishop
of Hippo interprets this Pauline text in no less than four different ways. In his treatise
De Spiritu et Litera he describes the divine voluntas salvifica as strictly universal in the
physical sense.(484) In his Enchiridion he restricts it to the predestined.(485) In his Contra
Iulianum he says: “No one is saved unless God so wills.”(486) In his work De Correptione et
Gratia: “God wills all men to be saved, because He makes us to will this, just as He sent the
spirit of His Son [into our hearts], crying: Abba, Father, that is, making us to cry, Abba,
Father.”(487) How did St. Augustine come to interpret this simple text in so many different
ways? Some think he chose this method to overwhelm the Pelagians and Semipelagians with Scriptural
proofs. But this polemical motive can hardly have induced him to becloud an obvious text and
invent interpretations which never occurred to any other ecclesiastical writer before or after
his time. The conundrum can only be solved by the assumption that Augustine believed in a plurality
of literal senses in the Bible and held that over and above (or notwithstanding) the sensus
obvius every exegete is free to read as much truth into any given passage as possible, and
that such interpretation lay within the scope of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost quite as
much as the sensus obvius. In his Confessions(488) he actually argues in favor of a pluralitas
sensuum. He was keen enough to perceive, however, that if a Scriptural text is interpreted
in different ways, the several constructions put upon it must not be contradictory. As he was
undoubtedly aware of the distinction between voluntas antecedens and consequens,(489) his different
interpretations of 1 Tim. II, 4 can be reconciled by assuming that he conceived God’s voluntas
salvifica as antecedens in so far as it is universal, and as consequens in so far as it is
particular. Thus, that men should live is good; and that men should be killed is evil, absolutely
considered. The most difficult problem concerning the divine voluntas salvifica—a real crux
theologorum—is the fate of unbaptized children. The Church has never uttered a dogmatic definition
on this head, and theologians hold widely divergent opinions.

Bellarmine teaches that infants who die without being baptized, are excluded from the divine
voluntas salvifica, because, while the non-reception of Baptism is the proximate reason of
their damnation, its ultimate reason must be the will of God.

a) This rather incautious assertion needs to be carefully restricted. It is an article of faith
that God has instituted the sacrament of Baptism as the ordinary means of salvation for all
men. On the other hand, it is certain that He expects parents, priests, and relatives, as his
representatives, to provide conscientiously for its proper and timely administration. Sinful
negligence on the part of these responsible agents cannot, therefore, be charged to Divine
Providence, but must be laid at the door of those human agents who fail to do their duty. In
exceptional cases infants can be saved even by means of the so-called Baptism of blood (baptismus
sanguinis), i.e. death for Christ’s sake. On the whole it may be said that God has, in principle,
provided for the salvation of little children by the institution of infant Baptism.

b) But there are many cases in which either invincible ignorance or the order of nature precludes
the administration of Baptism. The well-meant opinion of some theologians(491) that the responsibility
in all such cases lies not with God, but with men, lacks probability. Does God, then, really
will the damnation of these innocents? Some modern writers hold that the physical order of
nature is responsible for the misfortune of so many innocent infants; but this hypothesis contributes
nothing towards clearing up the awful mystery.(492) For God is the author of the natural as
well as of the supernatural order. To say that He is obliged to remove existing obstacles by
means of a miracle would disparage His ordinary providence.(493) Klee’s assumption that dying
children become conscious long enough to enable them to receive the Baptism of desire (baptismus
flaminis), is scarcely compatible with the definition of the Council of Florence that “the
souls of those who die in actual mortal sin, or only in original sin, forthwith descend to
hell.”(494) A still more unsatisfactory supposition is that the prayer of Christian parents
acts like a baptism of desire and saves their children from hell. This theory, espoused by
Cardinal Cajetan, was rejected by the Fathers of Trent,(495) and Pope Pius V ordered it to
be expunged from the Roman edition of Cajetan’s works.(496)

A way out of the difficulty is suggested by Gutberlet and others, who, holding with St. Thomas
that infants that die without Baptism will enjoy a kind of natural beatitude, think it possible
that God, in view of their sufferings, may mercifully cleanse them from original sin and thereby
place them in a state of innocence.(497) This theory is based on the assumption that the ultimate
fate of unbaptized children is deprivation of the beatific vision of God and therefore a state
of real damnation (poena damni, infernum), and that the remission of original sin has for its
object merely to enable these unfortunate infants to enjoy a perfect natural beatitude, which
they could not otherwise attain. It is reasonable to argue that, as these infants are deprived
of celestial happiness through no guilt of their own, the Creator can hardly deny them some
sort of natural beatitude, to which their very nature seems to entitle them. “Hell” for them
probably consists in being deprived of the beatific vision of God, which is a supernatural
grace and as such lies outside the sphere of those prerogatives to which human nature has a
claim by the fact of creation. This theory would seem to establish at least some manner of
salvation for the infants in question, and consequently, to vindicate the divine voluntas salvifica
in the same measure. Needless to say, it can claim no more than probability, and we find ourselves
constrained to admit, at the conclusion of our survey, that there is no sure and perfect solution
of the difficulty, and theologians therefore do well to confess their ignorance.(498)

c) The difficulty of which we have spoken does not, of course, in any way impair the certainty
of the dogma. The Scriptural passages cited above(499) clearly prove that God wills to save
all men without exception. In basing the universality of God’s mercy on His omnipotence, His
universal dominion, and His love of souls, the Book of Wisdom(500) evidently implies that the
unbaptized infants participate in that mercy in all three of these respects. How indeed could
Divine Omnipotence exert itself more effectively than by conferring grace on those who are
inevitably and without any fault of their own deprived of Baptism? Who would deny that little
children, as creatures, are subject to God’s universal dominion in precisely the same manner
as adults? Again, if God loves the souls of men, must He not also love the souls of infants?

1 Tim. II, 4(501) applies primarily to adults, because strictly speaking only adults can “come
to the knowledge of the truth.” But St. Paul employs certain middle terms which undoubtedly
comprise children as well. Thus, if all men have but “one God,” this God must be the God of
infants no less than of adults, and His mercy and goodness must include them also. And if Jesus
Christ as God-man is the “one mediator of God and men,” He must also have assumed the human
nature of children, in order to redeem them from original sin.

God gives all men sufficient graces. But He is not obliged to give to each efficacious graces,
because all that is required to enable man to reach his supernatural destiny is coöperation
with sufficient grace, especially with the gratia prima vocans, which is the beginning of all
salutary operation.

To prove that God gives sufficient grace to all adult human beings without exception, we must
show that He gives sufficient grace (1) to the just, (2) to the sinner, and (3) to the heathen.
This we shall do in three distinct theses.

*Thesis I: God gives to all just men sufficient grace to keep His commandments.*

This is de fide.

Proof. The Tridentine Council teaches: “If any one saith that the commandments of God are,
even for one that is justified and constituted in grace, impossible to keep; let him be anathema.”(504)

A contrary proposition in the writings of Jansenius(505) was censured by Pope Innocent the
Tenth as “foolhardy, impious, blasphemous, and heretical.”

The Church does not assert that God gives to the just sufficient grace at all times. She merely
declares that sufficient grace is at their disposal whenever they are called upon to obey the
law (urgente praecepto). Nor need God always bestow a gratia proxime sufficiens; in many instances
the grace of prayer (gratia remote sufficiens) fully serves the purpose.(506)

This dogma is clearly contained in Holy Scripture. We shall quote the most important texts.

a) 1 John V, 3 sq.: “For this is the charity of God, that we keep his commandments, and his
commandments are not heavy. For whatsoever is born of God, overcometh the world.”(507) According
to this text the “charity of God” manifests itself in “keeping his commandments” and “overcoming
the world.” This is declared to be an easy task. Our Lord Himself says: “My yoke is sweet and
my burden light.”(508) Hence it must be possible to keep His commandments, and therefore God
does not withhold the absolutely necessary graces from the just.

St. Paul consoles the Corinthians by telling them that God will not suffer them to be tempted
beyond their strength, but will help them to a happy issue, provided they faithfully coöperate
with His grace. 1 Cor. X, 13: “God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above
that which you are able, but will make also with temptation issue, that you may be able to
bear it.”(509) As it is impossible even for the just to overcome grievous temptations without
supernatural aid,(510) and as God Himself tells us that we are able to overcome them, it is
a necessary inference that He bestows sufficient grace. The context hardly leaves a doubt that
St. Paul has in mind the just, for a few lines further up he says: “Therefore he that thinketh
himself to stand, let him take heed lest he fall.”(511) But there is no exegetical objection
to applying the text to all the faithful without exception.(512)

b) This dogma is clearly set forth in the writings of the Fathers. Some of them, it is true,
when combating the Pelagians and Semipelagians, defended the proposition that “grace is not
given to all men,”(513) but they meant efficacious grace.

α) A typical representative of this group of ecclesiastical writers is the anonymous author
of the work De Vocatione Omnium Gentium,(514) whom Pope Gelasius praised as “probatus Ecclesiae
magister.” This fifth-century writer, who was highly esteemed by his contemporaries, discusses
the question whether and in what sense all men are called, and why some are not saved. He begins
by drawing a distinction between God’s general and His special providence.(515) “It so pleased
God,” he says, “to give His efficacious grace to many, and to withhold His sufficient grace
from none, in order that it might appear from both [actions] that what is conferred upon a
portion is not denied to the entire race.”(516)

β) The Jansenists appealed in favor of their teaching to such Patristic passages as the following:
“After the withdrawal of the divine assistance he [St. Peter] was unable to stand;”(517) and:
“He had undertaken more than he was able to do.”(518) But the two Fathers from whose writings
these passages are taken (SS. Chrysostom and Augustine) speak, as the context evinces, of the
withdrawal of efficacious and proximately sufficient grace in punishment of Peter’s presumption.
Had St. Peter followed our Lord’s advice(519) and prayed instead of relying on his own strength,
he would not have fallen. That this was the mind of St. Augustine clearly appears from the
following sentence in his work De Unitate Ecclesiae: “Who shall doubt that Judas, had he willed,
would not have betrayed Christ, and that Peter, had he willed, would not have thrice denied
his Master?”(520)

c) The theological argument for our thesis may be formulated as follows: Since the state of
grace confers a claim to supernatural happiness, it must also confer a claim to those graces
which are necessary to attain it.

To assert that God denies the just sufficient grace to observe His commandments, to avoid mortal
sin, and to persevere in the state of grace, would be to gainsay His solemn promise to His
adopted children: “This is the will of my Father that sent me: that every one who seeth the
Son and believeth in him, may have life everlasting, and I will raise him up in the last day.”(521)
Consequently, God owes it to His own fidelity to bestow sufficient graces upon the just.

Again, according to the plain teaching of Revelation, the just are obliged, under pain of sin,
to observe the commandments of God and the precepts of His Church.(522) But this is impossible
without the aid of grace. Consequently, God grants at least sufficient grace to his servants,
for ad impossibile nemo tenetur.(523)

*Thesis II: In regard to Christians guilty of mortal sin we must hold: (1) that ordinary sinners
always receive sufficient grace to avoid mortal sin and do penance; (2) that God never entirely
withdraws His grace even from the obdurate.*

The first part of this thesis embodies a theological conclusion; the second states the common
teaching of Catholic theologians.

1. Proof of the First Part. The distinction here drawn between “ordinary” and “obdurate” sinners
has its basis in revelation and is clearly demanded by the different degrees of certainty attaching
to the two parts of our thesis.

An “ordinary” sinner is a Christian who has lost sanctifying grace by a grievous sin. An “obdurate”
sinner is one who, by repeatedly and maliciously transgressing the laws of God, has dulled
his intellect and hardened his will against salutary inspirations. A man may be an habitual
sinner (consuetudinarius) and a backslider, without being obdurate, or, which comes to the
same, impenitent. Weakness is not malice, though sinful habits often beget impenitence, which
is one of the sins against the Holy Ghost and the most formidable obstacle in the way of conversion.

With regard to ordinary sinners, our thesis asserts that they always receive sufficient grace
to avoid mortal sin and do penance.

a) Experience teaches that a man falls deeper and deeper if he does not hasten to do penance
after committing a mortal sin. But this is not the fault of Almighty God, who never withholds
His grace; it is wholly the fault of the sinner who fails to coöperate with the proffered supernatural
assistance.

α) A sufficient Scriptural argument for this part of our thesis is contained in the texts cited
in support of Thesis I. If it is true that God suffers no one to be tempted beyond his strength,(524)
this must surely apply to Christians who have had the misfortune of committing mortal sin.
St. John says that the commandments of God “are not heavy” and that faith is “the victory which
overcometh the world.”(525) Faith in Christ remains in the Christian, even though he be guilty
of mortal sin, and consequently if he wills, he is able, by the aid of sufficient grace, to
overcome the “world,” i.e. the temptations arising from concupiscence,(526) and thus to cease
committing mortal sins.

β) As for the teaching of Tradition, St. Augustine lays down two theological principles which
apply to saint and sinner alike.

“God does not enjoin impossibilities,” he says, “but in His injunctions counsels you both to
do what you can for yourself, and to ask His aid in what you cannot do.”(527) It follows that
the sinner always receives at least the grace of prayer, which Augustine therefore calls gratia
initialis sive parva, and of which he says that its right use ensures the gratia magna.

The second principle is this: “Cum lege coniuncta est gratia, quâ lex observari possit.” That
is, every divine law, by special ordinance, carries with it the grace by which it may be observed.
In other words, the laws of God can always be obeyed because the lawgiver never fails to grant
sufficient grace to keep them.(528)

b) That the sinner always receives sufficient grace to be converted, follows from the Scriptural
injunction of conversion. If conversion to God is a duty, and to comply with this duty is impossible
without the aid of grace,(529) the divine command obviously implies the bestowal of sufficient
grace.

2. Proof of the Second Part. Obduracy is a serious obstacle to conversion because the obdurate
sinner has confirmed his will in malice(532) and by systematic resistance diminished the influence
of grace. The question here is whether or not God in such cases eventually withdraws His grace
altogether.

Some rigorists hold that He does so, with the purpose of sparing the sinner greater tortures
in hell.(533) Though this assertion cannot be said to contravene the dogma of the universality
of God’s salvific will, (its defenders do not deny that He faithfully does His share to save
these unfortunate reprobates), we prefer to adopt the sententia  communis, that God grants
even the most obdurate sinner—at least now and then, e.g. during a mission or on the occasion
of some terrible catastrophe—sufficient grace to be converted. The theological reasons for
this opinion, which we hold to be the true one, coincide in their last analysis with those
set forth in the first part of our thesis.

a) Sacred Scripture, in speaking of the duty of repentance, makes no distinction between ordinary
and obdurate sinners. On the contrary, the Book of Wisdom points to one of the most wicked
and impenitent of nations, the Canaanites, as a shining object of divine mercy and patience.(534)
According to St. Paul, God calls especially upon hardened and impenitent sinners to do penance.
Rom. II, 4 sq.: “Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness, and patience, and long suffering?
Thus the Lord says of Pharao: “I shall harden his heart,”(536) and Moses tells us: “The Lord
hardened Pharao’s heart, and he harkened not unto them.”(537) But it would be wrong to assume
that this denotes a positive action on the part of God. Pharao, as we are told further on,
“hardened his own heart” (ingravavit cor suum).(538) The fault in all cases lies with the sinner,
who obstinately resists the call of grace. God’s co-operation in the matter is merely indirect.
The greater and stronger graces which He grants to ordinary sinners, He withholds from the
obdurate in punishment of their malice. This is, however, by no means tantamount to a withdrawal
of sufficient grace.(539)

b) The Fathers speak of God’s way of dealing with obdurate sinners in a manner which clearly
shows their belief that He never entirely withdraws His mercy. They insist that the light of
grace is never extinguished in the present life. “God gave them over to a reprobate mind,”
says St. Augustine, “for such is the blindness of the mind. Whosoever is given over thereunto,
is shut out from the interior light of God: but not wholly as yet, whilst he is in this life.
For there is ‘outer darkness,’ which is understood to belong rather to the day of judgment;
that he should rather be wholly without God, whosoever, whilst there is time, refuses correction.”(540)

It follows that no sinner, how desperate soever his case may appear, need be despaired of.
As long as there is life there is hope.(541) The Fathers consistently teach that the reason
why reprobates are lost is not lack of grace but their own malice. Thus St. Chrysostom comments
on Isaias’ prophecy regarding the impenitence of the Jews: “The reason they did not believe
was not that Isaias had predicted their unbelief, but his prediction was based on the fact
that they would not believe. They were unable to believe, i.e. they had not the will to believe.”(542)

c) The theological argument for our thesis is well stated by St. Thomas. He distinguishes between
obstinatio perfecta and obstinatio imperfecta and says: Perfect obstinacy exists only in hell.
Imperfect obstinacy is that of a sinner who has his will so firmly set on evil that he is incapable
of any but the faintest impulses towards virtue, though even these are sufficient to prepare
the way for grace.(543) “If any one falls into sin after having received Baptism,” says the
Fourth Lateran Council, “he can always be restored by sincere penance.”(544) As the power of
the keys comprises all sins, even those against the Holy Ghost, so divine grace is held out
to all sinners. The Montanistic doctrine of the unforgivableness of the “three capital sins”
(apostasy, murder, and adultery) was already condemned as heretical during the life-time of
Tertullian. The sinner can obtain forgiveness only by receiving the sacrament of Penance or
making an act of perfect contrition.(545) Justly, therefore, does the Church regard despair
of God’s mercy as an additional grievous sin. If the rigorists were right in asserting that
God in the end absolutely abandons the sinner, there could be no hope of forgiveness, and despair
would be justified.

*Thesis III: The heathens, too, receive sufficient graces for salvation.*

This proposition may be qualified as certa.

Proof. The “heathens” are those whom the Gospel has not yet reached. They are called infideles
negativi in contradistinction to the infideles positivi, i.e. apostates and formal heretics
who have fallen away from the faith. We assert that God gives to the heathens sufficient grace
to know the truth and be saved. Pope Alexander VIII, on December 7, 1690, condemned Arnauld’s
Jansenistic proposition that “pagans, Jews, heretics, and others of the same kind experience
no influence whatever from Christ, and it may therefore be rightly inferred that there is in
them a nude and helpless will, lacking sufficient grace.”(546) A proposition of similar import,
set up by Quesnel, was censured by Clement XI.(547) Though not formally defined, it is a certain
truth—deducible from the infallible teaching of the Church—that God does not permit any one
to perish for want of grace.

a) The Biblical argument for our thesis is based on the dogma that God wills all men to be
saved. It follows that the heathens are able to perform supernatural salutary acts with the
aid of grace, and that they will receive the reward of eternal beatitude if they lead a good life.

In another passage (1 Tim. IV, 10) the Apostle calls Christ “the Saviour of all men, especially
of the faithful.”(550) Consequently, Christ is the Saviour also of unbelievers and heathens.(551)

b) St. Paul’s teaching is faithfully echoed by the Fathers. Thus St. Clement of Rome,(552)
in commenting on the penitential sermons of Noë and the prophet Jonas, says: “We may roam through
all the ages of history and learn that the Lord in all generations(553) gave opportunity for
penance to all who wished to be converted, ... even though they were strangers to him.”(554)

St. Chrysostom says in explanation of John I, 9: “If He enlightens every man that comes into
this world, how is it that so many are without light? For not all know Christ. Most assuredly
He illumines, so far as He is concerned.... For grace is poured out over all. It flees or despises
no one, be he Jew, Greek, barbarian or Scythian, freedman or slave, man or woman, old or young.
It is the same for all, easily attainable by all, it calls upon all with equal regard. As for
those who neglect to make use of this gift, they should ascribe their blindness to themselves.”(555)

Similar expressions can be culled from the anonymous work De Vocatione Omnium Gentium(556)
and from the writings of SS. Prosper and Fulgentius, and especially from those of Orosius,
who says that grace is given to all men, including the heathen, without exception and at all
times.(557)

c) Catholic theologians have devoted considerable thought to the question how God provides
for the salvation of the heathen.

To the uncivilized tribes may be applied what has been said regarding the fate of unbaptized
infants. The real problem is: How does the merciful Creator provide for those who are sufficiently
intelligent to be able to speculate on God, the soul, the future destiny of man, etc.? Holy
Scripture teaches: “Without faith it is impossible to please God, for he that cometh to God
must believe that he is, and is a rewarder to them that seek him.”(558) Faith here means, not
any kind of religious belief, but that theological faith which the Tridentine Council calls
“the beginning, the foundation, and the root of all justification.”(559) Mere intellectual
assent to the existence of God, immortality, and retribution would not be sufficient for salvation,
even if elevated to the supernatural sphere and transfigured by grace. This is evident from
the condemnation, by Pope Innocent XI, of the proposition that “Faith in a wide sense, based
on the testimony of the created universe, or some other similar motive, is sufficient unto
justification.”(560) The only sort of faith that results in justification, according to the
Vatican Council, is “a supernatural virtue, whereby, inspired and assisted by the grace of
God, we believe that the things which He has revealed are true; not because of the intrinsic
truth of the things, viewed by the natural light of reason, but because of the authority of
God Himself, who reveals them, and who can neither be deceived nor deceive.”(561) Of special
importance is the following declaration by the same Council: “Since without faith it is impossible
to please God and to attain to the fellowship of His children, therefore without faith no one
has ever attained justification....”(562)

The Catechism demands of every one who desires to be saved that he have a supernatural belief
in six distinct truths: the existence of God, retribution in the next world, the Blessed Trinity,
the Incarnation, the immortality of the soul, and the necessity of grace. The first two are
certainly necessary for salvation, both fide explicitâ and necessitate medii. With regard to
the other four there is a difference of opinion among theologians. We base our argumentation
on the stricter, though not absolutely certain view, that all six articles must be believed
necessitate medii. On this basis God’s method of providing sufficient graces for the heathen
may be explained in one of two ways, according as a fides explicita is demanded from them with
regard to all the above-mentioned dogmas, or a fides implicita is deemed sufficient in regard
to all but the first two. By fides explicita we understand the express and fully developed
faith of devout Christians; by fides implicita, an undeveloped belief of desire or, in other
words, general readiness to believe whatever God has revealed.

α) The defenders of the fides explicita theory are compelled to assume that God must somehow
reveal to each individual heathen who lives according to the dictates of his conscience, the
six truths necessary for salvation. “Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ.”(563)

But how can the gentiles believe in a revelation that has never been preached to them? Here
is an undeniable difficulty. Some theologians say: God enlightens them interiorly about the
truths necessary for salvation; or He miraculously sends them an apostle, as He sent St. Peter
to Cornelius;(564) or He instructs them through the agency of an angel.(565) None of these
hypotheses can be accepted as satisfactory. “Interior illumination” of the kind postulated
would practically amount to private revelation. That God should grant a special private revelation
to every conscientious pagan is highly improbable. Again, an angel can no more be the ordinary
means of conversion than the miraculous apparition of a missionary. Nevertheless, these three
hypotheses admirably illustrate the firm belief of the Church in the universality of God’s
saving will, inasmuch as they express the conviction of her theologians that He would work
a miracle rather than deny His grace to the poor benighted heathen.(566) The difficulties to
which we have adverted constitute a strong argument in favor of another theological theory
which regards explicit belief in the Trinity and the Incarnation merely as a necessitas praecepti,
from which one may be dispensed.

β) The fides implicita theory is far more plausible, for it postulates no miracles, implicit
faith (or fides in voto) being independent of the external preaching of the Gospel, just as
the baptism of desire (baptismus in voto) is independent of the use of water.

Cardinal Gotti regards the first-mentioned of the two theories as safer (tutior), but admits
that the other is highly probable, because it has the support of St. Thomas.(567) However,
a great difficulty remains. Though it may suffice to hold the dogmas of the Trinity and the
Incarnation, and a fortiori those of the immortality of the soul and the necessity of grace,
with an implicit faith, it is the consentient teaching of Revelation, the Church, and Catholic
divines that the two principal truths of religion, viz.: the existence of God and retribution,
must be held fide explicitâ and necessitate medii, because a man cannot be converted to God
unless He knows Him. But how is he to acquire a knowledge of God? Does this not also necessitate
a miracle (e.g. the sending of an angel or of a missionary, which we have rejected as improbable)?
There can be but one answer to this question. Unaided reason may convince a thoughtful pagan
of the existence of God and of divine retribution, and as these two fundamental truths have
no doubt penetrated to the farthest corners of the earth also as remnants of primitive revelation,
their promulgation may be said to be contained in the traditional instruction which the heathen
receive from their forebears. This external factor of Divine Revelation, assisted by interior
grace, may engender a supernatural act of faith, which implicitly includes belief in Christ,
Baptism, etc., and through which the heathen are eventually cleansed from sin and attain to
justification.(568)

Some theologians hold that those to whom the Gospel has never been preached, may be saved by
a quasi-faith based on purely natural motives.(569)

For the rest, no one will presume to dictate to Almighty God how and by what means He shall
communicate His grace to the heathen. It is enough, and very consoling, too, to know that all
men receive sufficient grace to save their souls, and no one is eternally damned except through
his own fault.(570)

    READINGS:—*Didacus Ruiz, De Voluntate Dei, disp. 19
    sqq.—Petavius, De Deo, X, 4 sqq.; De Incarnatione, XIII, 1
    sqq.—Fontana, Bulla “Unigenitus” Dogmatice Propugnata,
    prop. 12, c. 5, Rome 1717.—Passaglia, De Partitione Voluntatis
    Divinae in Primam et Secundam, Rome 1851.—*Franzelin, De Deo
    Uno, thes. 49-51, Rome 1883.—*Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
    Actuali, thes. 59-62, Gulpen 1885.—A. Fischer, De Salute
    Infidelium, Essen 1886.—*J. Bucceroni, De Auxilio Sufficiente
    Infidelibus Dato, Rome 1890.—Fr. Schmid, Die ausserordentlichen
    Heilswege für die gefallene Menschheit, Brixen 1899.—Chr. Pesch,
    Praelectiones Dogmaticae, Vol. II, 3rd ed., pp. 144 sqq.,
    Freiburg 1906.—L. Capéran, Le Problème du Salut des Infidèles,
    Paris 1912.—A. Wagner, Doctrina de Gratia Sufficiente, Graz
    1911.—J. Bainvel, S. J., Is There Salvation Outside the Catholic
    Church? (tr. J. L. Weidenhan), St. Louis 1917.

Article 3. The Predestination Of The Elect

1. WHAT IS MEANT BY PREDESTINATION.—We have shown that God antecedently wills to save all men,(571)
and that He gives to all sufficient grace to work out their eternal salvation.

On the other hand, Sacred Scripture assures us that some are lost through their own fault.
Cfr. Matth. XXV, 41: “Depart from me, you cursed, into everlasting fire.”

It follows that God’s will to save, considered as voluntas consequens, remains ineffective
with regard to a portion of the human race, and consequently, in this respect, is no longer
universal but particular.

Being omniscient, God has foreseen this from all eternity and disposed His decrees accordingly.
It is in this sense that Catholic theology teaches the existence of a twofold predestination:
one to Heaven, for those who die in the state of grace, another to hell, for those who depart
this life in mortal sin.

Present-day usage reserves the term predestination for the election of the blessed.

a) Rightly does the Council of Trent call predestination a “hidden mystery.”(572) For in the
last analysis it rests solely with God, who are to be admitted to Heaven and who condemned
to hell. But why does God give to some merely sufficient grace, with which they neglect to
coöperate, while on others He showers efficacious graces that infallibly lead to eternal salvation?
In this unequal distribution of efficacious grace lies the sublime mystery of predestination,
as St. Augustine well knew, for he says in his treatise On the Gift of Perseverance: “Therefore,
of two infants equally bound by original sin, why the one is taken and the other left; and
of two wicked men already mature in years, why one should be so called that he follows Him
that calleth, while the other is either not called at all, or is not called in such a manner,—are
unsearchable judgments of God.”(573)

b) What is meant by “predestination of the elect”? In view of the many errors that have arisen
with regard to this important dogma, it is necessary to start with clearly defined terms.

Predestination may mean one of three different things. A man may be simply predestined to receive
certain graces (praedestinatio ad gratiam tantum); or he may be predestined to enjoy eternal
happiness without regard to any merits of his own (praedestinatio ad gloriam tantum); or, again,
he may be predestined to both grace and glory, glory as the end, grace as a means to that end—vocation,
justification, and final perseverance. When the concepts of grace and glory are considered
separately, and each is made the object of a special predestination, we have what is called
incomplete or inadequate predestination (praedestinatio incompleta sive inadaequata). It is
this incomplete predestination that St. Paul(574) and St. Augustine(575) have in mind when
they apply the term to the vocation of men to grace, faith, and justification. Theologians
speak of praedestinatio ad gloriam tantum, that is, ante praevisa merita, as a true predestination,
but disagree as to its existence.(576)

The dogma of predestination, which mainly concerns us here, has for its sole object predestination
in the complete or adequate sense of the term, which is explained by St. Augustine as follows:
“Predestination is nothing else than the foreknowledge and the preparation of those gifts of
God whereby they who are delivered are most certainly delivered [i.e. saved].”(577) St. Thomas
expresses himself more succinctly: “Predestination is the preparation of grace in the present,
and of glory in the future.”(578)

2. THE DOGMA.—Complete predestination involves: (a) the first grace of vocation (gratia prima
praeveniens), especially faith as the beginning, foundation, and root of justification; (b)
a number of additional actual graces for the successful accomplishment of the process; (c)
justification itself as the beginning of the state of grace; (d) the grace of final perseverance;
(e) eternal happiness in Heaven.

The question arises; Do men really seek and find their eternal salvation with infallible certainty
by passing through these successive stages—not merely in the foreknowledge of God (praescientia
futurorum), but by virtue of an eternal decree (decretum praedestinationis)?

The Pelagians asserted that man works out his eternal salvation of his own free will, and that
consequently God merely foreknows but does not fore-ordain who shall be saved. The Semipelagians
held that the beginning of faith (initium fidei) and final perseverance (donum perseverantiae)
are not pure graces but may be obtained by natural means, without special aid from above. Against
these heretics the Catholic Church has always taught the eternal predestination of the elect
as an article of faith.(579)

a) St. Paul says explicitly: “We know that to them that love God, all things work together
unto good, to such as, according to his purpose, are called to be saints. For whom he foreknew,
he also predestinated to be made conformable to the image of his Son; that he might be the
firstborn amongst many brethren. And whom he predestinated, them he also called. And whom he
called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified.”(580) Here we
have all the elements of complete predestination: God’s eternal foreknowledge (praescivit,
προέγνω), an eternal decree of the divine will (praedestinavit, προώρισε), and the various
stages of justification, beginning with vocation (vocavit, ἐκάλησε) up to justification proper
(iustificavit, ἐδικαίωσε), and eternal beatitude (glorificavit, ἐδόξασεν).(581)

b) The Fathers of the fifth century undoubtedly taught the predestination of the elect as an
article of faith. Thus St. Augustine says: “There never was a time when the Church of Christ
did not hold this faith in predestination, which is now defended with fresh solicitude against
the new heretics.”(582) His faithful disciple St. Prosper writes: “No Catholic denies predestination
by God.”(583) And again: “It would be as impious to deny predestination as to oppose grace
itself.”(584)

c) Several important theological corollaries follow from the dogma of predestination.

α) The first is the immutability of the divine decree of predestination. This immutability
is based on God’s infallible foreknowledge that certain individuals will die in the state of
grace, and on His unchangeable will to reward them with eternal happiness.

St. Augustine says: “If any one of these [the predestined] perishes, God is mistaken; but none
of them perish because God is not mistaken.”(585)

God’s unerring foreknowledge is symbolized by the “Book of Life.”(586) Christ Himself said
to His Apostles: “Rejoice in this, that your names are written in heaven.”(587) The “Book of
Life” admits neither addition nor erasure. This does not, however, mean that a man is unable
to change God’s hypothetical decree of predestination with regard to himself into an absolute
one. He can do this by prayer, good works, and faithful co-operation with grace.(588) Whatever
promotes our salvation is included in the infallible foreknowledge of God, and consequently
also in the scope of predestination. In this sense, but in no other, can we accept the somewhat
paradoxical maxim: “If you are not predestined, conduct yourself so that you may be predestined.”
Sacred Scripture occasionally refers to another “Book of Life,” which contains the names of
all the faithful, irrespective of their predestination. This “book,” of course, is capable
of alterations. Cfr. Apoc. III, 5: “I will not blot out his name out of the book of life.”(589)
Finally, there is the “Book of Reprobation,” which records the wicked deeds of men and by which
the unrepentant sinners will be judged. This is the “liber scriptus” of the “Dies Irae”:

    “Liber scriptus proferetur.
    In quo totum continetur.”(590)

β) If the divine decree of predestination is immutable, the number of the elect must be definitively
fixed. “The number [of those who are predestined to the kingdom of God] is so certain,” says
St. Augustine, “that no one can either be added to or taken from them.”(591) We must distinguish
between the absolute and the relative number of the predestined.

God, being omniscient, knows not only the abstract number of the elect, but every individual
predestined to Heaven. To us the number of the elect is wrapped in impenetrable mystery. To
assume the latter could hardly be reconciled with the dogma of the universality of His saving
will. St. Augustine seems to favor the former.(593)

As regards the relative number of the elect, some writers (e.g. Massillon) represent it as
so infinitesimally small that it would almost drive a saint to despair,—“as if the Church had
been established for the express purpose of populating hell.”(594) Even St. Thomas held that
relatively few are saved.(595) But the arguments adduced in support of this contention are
by no means convincing.(596) Recently, the Jesuit Father Castelein(597) impugned the rigorist
theory with weighty arguments. He was sharply attacked by the Redemptorist Godts,(598) who
marshalled a great number of authorities in favor of the sterner view. The controversy cannot
be decided either on Scriptural or traditional grounds. In our pessimistic age it is more grateful
and consoling to assume that the majority of Christians, especially Catholics, will be saved.(599)
If we add to this number not a few Jews, Mohammedans, and heathens, it is probably safe to
estimate the number of the elect as at least equal to that of the reprobates. Were it smaller,
“it could be said to the shame and offense of the divine majesty and mercy, that the [future]
kingdom of Satan is larger than the kingdom of Christ.”(600)

3. THE MOTIVE OF PREDESTINATION.—The efficient cause of predestination is God; its instrumental
cause, grace; its final cause, the divine glory; its primary meritorious cause, the merits
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. On these points all theologians are agreed. Not so as
to the motive that induced God to predestine certain individuals to the exclusion of others.
The question narrows itself down to this: What influence, if any, do the merits of a man exert
on the eternal decree of predestination?—and may be formulated in three different ways.

a) What influence do the merits of a man exert on his predestination to the initial grace of
vocation? Recalling the dogma of the absolute gratuity of grace, our answer must be: None.
For whatever merits one may have acquired before he receives the initial grace of vocation,
must be purely natural, and consequently worthless in the eyes of God for supernatural predestination.
“To assume,” says St. Thomas, “that there is on our part some merit, the foreknowledge of which
[on the part of God] would be the cause [motive] of our predestination, would be to assume
that grace is given to us [as a reward] of our [natural] merits.”(601)

b) What influence do the merits of a man exert on his predestination to grace and glory? Catholic
theologians are unanimous in holding that, since grace is absolutely gratuitous and inseparably
connected with glory as its effect, the union of both can no more be based upon natural merit
than the initial grace of vocation itself, which transmits the quality of gratuitousness to
each and every one of the graces that follow in its wake, up to and including justification
and eternal beatitude. Those among the Fathers who defended the gratuity of predestination
against the Pelagians and Semipelagians, really aimed at safeguarding the gratuity of initial
grace, in order not to be constrained to say with Pelagius that “the grace of God is given
as a reward of merit.”(602) “What compelled me in this work of mine [De Dono Perseverantiae]
to defend more abundantly and clearly those passages of Scripture in which predestination is
commended,” says St. Augustine, “if not the Pelagian assertion that God’s grace is given according
to our [natural] merits?”(603) Obviously these Fathers did not have in view the praedestinatio
ad gloriam tantum, as the champions of the praedestinatio ante praevisa merita mistakenly assert,
but what they meant was that complete predestination which comprises grace and glory as one
whole. Similarly, the early Schoolmen, when they speak of the “gratuity of predestination,”
usually mean complete predestination.(604) D’Argentré’s researches show how necessary it is
to draw sharp distinctions and carefully to establish the real state of the question before
claiming the common teaching of the Scholastics in favor of any particular theory of predestination.

c) What influence do the supernatural merits of a man exert on his predestination to glory
as such? Here the controversy begins. Predestination may be considered either as the cause
of supernatural merit or as its effect. If it is considered as the cause, the problem takes
this shape: Did God, by an absolute decree, and without any regard to their future supernatural
merits, eternally predestine certain men to the glory of heaven, and only subsequently decide
to give them the efficacious graces necessary to reach that end, particularly final perseverance?
If, on the other hand, predestination be considered as an effect of supernatural merit, the
question will be: Did God predestine certain men to the glory of Heaven by a merely hypothetical
decree, making His will to save them dependent on His infallible foreknowledge of their supernatural
merits? The lack of decisive Scriptural and Patristic texts on this subject has led to a division
of Catholic opinion, some theologians favoring absolute predestination ante praevisa merita,
others hypothetical predestination post praevisa merita. Without concealing our conviction
that absolute predestination is untenable, we shall set forth both theories impartially and
examine the arguments on which they rely.

4. ORTHODOX PREDESTINATIONISM, OR THE THEORY OF PREDESTINATION ANTE PRAEVISA MERITA.—Some theologians
conceive the divine scheme of salvation in this wise: (a) In ordine intentionis, God, by an
absolute decree, first predestines certain men to eternal salvation, and then, in consequence
of this decree, decides to give them all the graces necessary to be saved; (b) in time, however,
or in ordine executionis, He observes the reverse order, that is to say, He first bestows the
pre-appointed graces and subsequently the glory of heaven as a reward of supernatural merit
acquired by the aid of those graces.

This theory reverses the relation of grace and glory. While it correctly(605) represents glory
as the fruit and reward of supernatural merit in the order of execution, it wrongly represents
it in the order of intention as the cause of supernatural merit, whereas it is merely an effect.
This opinion is championed by most Thomists,(606) some Augustinians,(607) and a few Molinists.(608)
Their arguments may be sketched as follows:

a) In innumerable passages of Sacred Scripture predestination to eternal happiness is represented
as a work of pure mercy, nay, even as an arbitrary act of God. Take, e.g., Matth.

This conclusion is unwarranted. The phrase “those days” manifestly refers either to the destruction
of Jerusalem or to the end of the world. If it refers to the destruction of Jerusalem, the
“elect,” according to Biblical usage,(610) are the faithful Christian inhabitants of the Holy
City, for whose sake God promises to shorten the terrible siege. If it referred to the end
of the world, electi would indeed stand for praedestinati, but the context would not forbid
us to interpret their predestination hypothetically, as merely indicating the immutability
of the divine decree, which is not denied by the opponents of the theory.

Another text quoted in favor of absolute predestination ante praevisa merita, is Acts XIII,
48: “As many as were ordained (praeordinati, τεταγμένοι) to life everlasting, believed.” Here,
we are told, predestination to eternal life is given as the motive why many believed. But the
text really says nothing at all about predestination. Τεταγμένοι is not synonymous with προτεταγμένοι
or προωρισμένοι. The more probable explanation is the following: As many believed as were disposed
to receive the faith. It is wellnigh impossible to assume that all who received the faith at
that time were predestined, while those that refused to be converted were without exception
reprobates. But even if praeordinati were synonymous with praedestinati, the text would merely
say that certain predestined souls embraced the faith, without affording any clue as to the
relation between conversion and predestination.

The ninth chapter of St. Paul’s Epistle to the Romans is the main reliance of the advocates
of absolute predestinationism, though the passage is unfit to serve as a locus classicus because
of its obscurity. Let us examine a few of the verses most frequently quoted. Rom. IX, 13: “Jacob
I have loved, but Esau I have hated,” is alleged to prove the absolute predestination of Jacob
and the negative reprobation of Esau. But many theologians hold that Esau was saved, and, besides,
the Apostle is not dealing with predestination to glory, but with Jacob’s vocation to be the
progenitor of the Messias. Esau, who was not an Israelite but an Idumaean, was simply passed
over in this choice (odio habere  minus diligere; cfr. Matth. X, 37). If the passage is interpreted
typically, it should be done in harmony with the context, that is to say, as referring to the
gratuity of grace, not to predestination.

The same may be said of Rom. IX, 16 and 18: “It is not of him that willeth, nor of him that
runneth, but of God that showeth mercy.... He hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will
he hardeneth.”(611)

The strongest text alleged by the advocates of absolute predestination is Rom. But the simile
must not be pressed, lest we arrive at the Calvinistic blasphemy that God positively predestined
some men to heaven and others to hell. The tertium comparationis is not the act of the Divine
Artificer, but the willingness of man to yield his will to God like clay in the hands of a potter.

Nor is it admissible to read into the Apostle’s thought even a negative reprobation of certain
men. For the primary intention of the Epistle to the Romans is to insist on the gratuity of
man’s vocation to Christianity and to reject the presumption that the Mosaic law and their
bodily descent from Abraham gave the Jews preference over the heathens. The Epistle to the
Romans has no bearing whatever on the speculative question whether or not the free vocation
of grace is a necessary result of eternal predestination to glory.(612)

b) Among the Fathers the only one to whom the advocates of absolute predestinationism can appeal
with some show of justice is St. Augustine, who, with the possible exception of Prosper and
Fulgentius, was the most rigorous among early ecclesiastical writers,—so rigorous, in fact,
that Oswald does not hesitate to call him “the head and front of all rigorists in the Church.”(613)

However, this is saying too much. Augustine’s genuine teaching is still in dispute among our
ablest theologians. Some(614) deny that he broke with the almost unanimous teaching of his
predecessors, while others think that in the treatises De Dono Perseverantiae and De Praedestinatione
Sanctorum, and in several of his letters, the Saint frankly taught absolute predestinationism.
The latter group of writers is split into two classes. A number of Thomists and Cardinal Bellarmine
not only assert that Augustine taught absolute predestination, but boldly adopt his supposed
teaching. Petavius, Maldonatus, Cercià, Oswald, and others censure this view. Franzelin(615)
undoubtedly strikes the right note when he says: “If there were a manifest discrepancy between
Augustine’s teaching and that of the other Fathers, I should not hesitate to follow Pighius,
Catharinus, Osorius, Camerarius, Maldonatus,(616) Toletus,(617) and Petavius(618) in reverently
departing from his doctrine, because in that case we should be dealing merely with a private
opinion.”(619) Under these circumstances the Patristic argument for the theory of absolute
predestination evidently lacks convincingness.(620)

c) It was probably because they felt its weakness that some of the later champions of the theory
attempted to prove absolute predestination ante praevisa merita by philosophical arguments.
Gonet reasons as follows: “He who proceeds in an orderly way, wills the end before he wills
the means necessary to attain it. But God proceeds in an orderly way. Therefore he wills the
end before the means. Now, glory is an end, and merits are means to attain that end. Consequently,
God wills glory before He wills merits, and a man’s preëlection to glory cannot be based on
foreknowledge of his merits.”(621) This argument, if it proved anything, would prove the logical
impossibility of conditional predestination. But it overshoots the mark and consequently proves
nothing at all. Qui nimium probat, nihil probat.

Gonet moreover assumes what he sets out to prove, namely, that God voluntate antecedente decreed
the glory of certain men to the exclusion of others. This petitio principii vitiates the entire
polysyllogism. God’s will to save is universal. He wills the eternal happiness of all men antecedenter,
and the reprobation of some only consequenter; hence eternal predestination is not absolute,
but hypothetical, that is, it depends on merit. That the divine scheme of grace can take a
different course in ordine intentionis from that in ordine executionis is a mere fiction. If
eternal salvation in the order of temporal execution is given only as a reward of merit, it
must be a reward of merit also in the order of intention. In both cases predestination depends
upon a future condition.

Perhaps the worst feature of the theory of absolute predestination is the fact that it involves
the absolute reprobation of those not predestined to glory. “If it could be validly argued,”
says Gutberlet, “that, since the end must be willed before the means, salvation must be decreed
before the means to its attainment (i.e. merits), the argument would be applicable also to
the damned. If God voluntate antecedente wills to lead only a few to salvation, and if this
intention must precede every other, then He must likewise voluntate antecedente have in view
the end of the reprobates, which is His own glorification through the manifestation of His
justice and mercy. Hence He must also decree the means necessary to obtain this end, i.e. He
must cause these unfortunate creatures to sin, in order that they may reach the end for which
He has predestined them; in other words, He must pre-ordain them to sin and eternal damnation,”(622)
which is what Calvin teaches. The advocates of the theory naturally shrink from adopting such
a blasphemous conclusion, and fall back upon the theory of negative reprobation, which, however,
amounts practically to the same thing.(623)

5. THE THEORY OF HYPOTHETICAL PREDESTINATION POST PRAEVISA MERITA.—Predestination, like God’s
will to save all men, is based on a hypothetical decree. Those only are predestined to eternal
happiness who shall merit it as a reward. It is solely by reason of His infallible foreknowledge
of these merits that God’s hypothetical decree of predestination becomes absolute. Or, as Becanus
puts it, “God first prepared the gifts of grace, and then elected to eternal life those whose
good use of the gifts He foresaw.”(624)

This view, which strongly appeals to us for the reason that it sets aside the cruel theory
of “negative reprobation,” was defended by such earlier Scholastics as Alexander of Hales and
Albertus Magnus, and by many eminent later writers, e.g. Toletus, Lessius, Frassen, Stapleton,
Tournely, and is held to-day by nearly all theologians outside the Thomist school. What gave
it special authority in modern times was the recommendation of St. Francis de Sales, who, in
a letter to Lessius (Aug. 26, 1618) described the theory of conditional predestination post
praevisa merita as “more in harmony with the mercy and grace of God, truer and more attractive.”(625)
This view has a solid basis both in Scripture and Tradition.

a) Holy Scripture clearly teaches the universality of God’s saving will. Now if God voluntate
antecedente wills the eternal salvation of all men without exception,(626) He cannot possibly
intend that only some shall be saved.

It is further to be noted that the Bible makes not only the temporal realization but likewise
the eternal promise of glory dependent on the performance of good works. To prepare for men
the kingdom of heaven from the foundation (i.e. beginning) of the world, is to predestine them
to eternal happiness. Now, God has “prepared” the kingdom of heaven for men in view of their
foreseen merits, that is to say, conditionally. The causal conjunction enim in the sentence
following the one just quoted (Matth. XXVI, 25): “Esurivi enim et dedistis mihi manducare,
etc.,” refers to the entire preceding sentence, not only to the possidete in time, but also
to the paratum in eternity. Consequently, the eternal decree of predestination itself, like
its temporal execution, depends on good works or merit. This interpretation of Matth. XXV,
34-36 is confirmed by the sentence pronounced upon the reprobates, Matth. XXV, 41 sqq.: “Depart
from me, you cursed, into everlasting fire, which was prepared for the devil and his angels.
For I was hungry, and you gave me not to eat, etc.” The “everlasting fire” is manifestly decreed
from all eternity in the same sense in which it is inflicted in time, namely, propter et post
praevisa merita. Billuart’s contention(630) that hell has been prepared solely for “the devil
and his angels” is untenable, because in several other Scriptural passages(631) the reprobates
are expressly classed among the followers of Satan. If we add to this that our Divine Lord,
in foretelling the last judgment, had naturally to formulate his prediction so as not only
to show its absolute justice but likewise to intimate that, had they so willed, the damned
might have had their place on the right hand of the Great Judge, we must admit that the theory
of predestination post praevisa merita has a solid foundation in Scripture.(632)

b) The Greek Fathers unanimously favor hypothetical predestination, which fact has caused the
theory to be commonly referred to as “sententia Graecorum.”(633)

Thus St. Chrysostom interprets the judgment of the Son of Man as follows: “Possess ye the kingdom
[of heaven] as your own by heredity, as a paternal heritage, as a gift long due to you; for
it was prepared and arranged for you before you came into existence, because I knew beforehand
that you would be what you are.”(634) Theodoret says: “He did not simply predestine [men],
but He predestined them because He foreknew [their merits].”(635)

The Latin Fathers before St. Augustine all without exception taught hypothetical predestination.
St. Hilary says: “Many are called, but few are chosen.... Hence election is not a matter of
indiscriminate choice, but a selection based on merit.”(636) And St. Ambrose: “Therefore the
Apostle says: ‘Whom he foreknew he also predestined’ (Rom. VIII, 29); for He did not predestine
before He foreknew, but He predestined a reward to those whose merits He foresaw.”(637)

The question cannot, as Bellarmine contends,(638) be decided on the sole authority of St. Augustine,
because he is claimed by both parties to the controversy.(639)

On account of the existing differences of opinion it is impossible to establish the theory
of hypothetical predestination on the basis of Scholastic teaching.(640) The opinion of St.
Thomas is in dispute;(641) likewise that of St. Bonaventure. Scotus in his controversy with
Henry of Ghent shows a disposition to favor absolute predestination, but leaves the question
open. “Let every one,” he says,(642) “choose whichever opinion suits him best, without prejudice
to the divine liberty, which must be safeguarded against injustice, and to the other truths
that are to be held in respect of God.”(643)

6. A COMPROMISE THEORY.—For the sake of completeness we will add a few words on a theory which
takes middle ground between the two just reviewed, holding that, while the common run of humanity
is predestined hypothetically, a few exceptionally favored Saints enjoy the privilege of absolute
predestination.

Among the champions of this “eclectic” theory may be mentioned: Ockam,(644) Gabriel Biel,(645)
Ysambert,(646) and Ambrosius Catharinus.(647) The Saints regarded by these writers as absolutely
predestined to eternal glory are: the Blessed Virgin Mary, the prophets and Apostles, St. Joseph,
St. Aloysius, and a few others, as well as all infants dying in the grace of Baptism. Billuart,(648)
Dominicus Soto, and certain other divines attack this theory on the ground that it makes the
salvation of the great majority of the elect a matter of chance and thereby imperils the dogmatic
teaching of the Church. This objection is unfounded. For though the “eclectic” theory has little
or no support either in Revelation or in reason, it sufficiently safeguards the dogma of predestination
by admitting that voluntate consequente none but the predestined can attain to eternal beatitude.

Only with regard to the Blessed Virgin Mary are we inclined to make an exception. It is probable
that she was predestined to eternal glory ante praevisa merita, because, in the words of Lessius,
the privileges she enjoyed “exceed all measure and must not be extended to any other human
being.”(649)

Article 4. The Reprobation Of The Damned

The reprobation of the damned is sometimes called praedestinatio ad gehennam, though, as we
have remarked, the term “predestination” should properly be restricted to the blessed.

There can be no absolute and positive predestination to eternal punishment, and the pains of
hell can be threatened only in view of mortal sin. Hence reprobation may be defined, in the
words of Peter Lombard, as “God’s foreknowledge of the wickedness of some creatures and the
preparation of their damnation.”(650)

A distinction must, however, be made (at least in theory), between positive and negative reprobation.
To teach positive reprobation would be heretical. Negative reprobation, on the other hand,
is defended by all those Catholic theologians who advocate the theory of absolute predestination
ante praevisa merita.(651)

1. HERETICAL PREDESTINARIANISM OR THE THEORY OF THE POSITIVE REPROBATION OF THE DAMNED.—Heretical
Predestinarianism was taught by Lucidus, Gottschalk, Wiclif, Hus, the younger Jansenius, and
especially by Calvin. The latter asserted that the salvation of the elect and the damnation
of the reprobate are the effects of an unconditional divine decree.(652)

According to this abominable heresy, the sin of Adam and the spiritual ruin which it entailed
upon his descendants are attributable solely to the will of God. God produces in the reprobate
a “semblance of faith,” only to make them all the more deserving of damnation. In the beginning
of the seventeenth century Arminius and a few other theologians of the Dutch Reformed Church,
repelled by Calvin’s decretum horribile, ascribed the positive reprobation of the damned to
original sin (lapsus). These writers, called Infralapsarians or Postlapsarians, were opposed
by the strict school of Calvinist divines under the leadership of Gomarus. The great Calvinist
Synod of Dordrecht (1618-1619) condemned the principles of Arminius, and subsequently his adherents
were driven from Holland. For we know from Is. VIII, 14(661) and Matth. XXI, 44,(662) that
those who fall on this stone are ground to powder as a punishment for the sin of unbelief.(663)

b) The Fathers, especially those of the East, are unanimous in upholding the orthodox teaching
of the Church. The only one whom adherents of Predestinarianism have dared to claim is St.
Augustine.

Yet the “Doctor of Grace” expressly teaches: “God is good, God is just. He can deliver some
without merits because He is good; but He cannot damn any one without demerits, because He
is just.”(664) St. Prosper re-echoes this teaching when he says of the reprobates: “Of their
own will they went out; of their own will they fell; and because their fall was foreknown,
they were not predestined. They would, however, be predestined if they were to return and persevere
in holiness; hence God’s predestination is for many the cause of perseverance, for none the
cause of falling away.”(665) St. Fulgentius expresses himself in similar language.(666)

2. THE THEORY OF “NEGATIVE REPROBATION.”—Negative reprobation is defined by its defenders as
an eternal decree by which God excludes from Heaven those not absolutely predestined, in other
words, determines not to save them.

a) Gonet explains the difference between negative and positive reprobation in Scholastic terminology
as follows: “... quod haec [i.e. positiva] habet non solum terminum a quo, nempe exclusionem
a gloria, sed etiam terminum ad quem, scil. poenam sive damni sive sensus; illa vero [i.e.
negativa] solum habet terminum a quo, nempe exclusionem a gloria ut beneficio indebito, non
vero terminum ad quem, quia ex vi exclusionis ut sic praecise et ut habet rationem purae negationis,
non intelligitur reprobus esse damnandus aut ulli poenae sive damni sive sensus deputandus.”(667)

The general principle laid down in this quotation is variously developed by Thomist theologians.

The rigorists (Alvarez, John a S. Thoma, Estius, Sylvius) assign as the motive of reprobation
the sovereign will of God. God, they say, without taking into account possible sins and demerits,
determined a priori to exclude from Heaven those who are not predestined. De Lemos, Gotti,
Gonet, Gazzaniga, and others condemn this view as incompatible with the teaching of St. Thomas,
and, appealing to St. Augustine’s doctrine of the massa damnata, find the ultimate reason for
the exclusion of the reprobates from heaven in original sin, in which God, without being unjust,
could leave as many as He saw fit. Goudin, Graveson, Billuart, and others assume that the reprobates
are not directly excluded from eternal glory but merely from “effective election” thereunto,
God simply having decreed ante praevisa merita to leave them to their weakness.(668)

While the Thomists found no difficulty in harmonizing this view with their theory of physical
premotion, the few Molinists who espoused it were hard put in trying to square it with the
scientia media.(669) On the whole these Molinists endorse the third and mildest of the above-quoted
opinions, which differs only theoretically from the rigoristic view described in the first
place. Practically it makes no difference whether God directly excludes a man from heaven or
refuses to give him the graces necessary to attain it.

Surveying all three of the theories under consideration we cannot but regard the first and
third as heartless and cruel, because they attribute eternal reprobation to a positive decree
that takes effect independently of sin; the second, (which ascribes reprobation to original
sin), is open to the serious dogmatic objection that it contradicts the teaching of St. Paul
and the Tridentine declaration that “there is no condemnation (nihil damnationis) in those
who are truly buried together with Christ by baptism into death.”(670)

b) Negative reprobation is rightly regarded as the logical counterpart of absolute predestination.(671)
If Almighty God, by an absolute decree, without regard to any possible merits, merely to reveal
His divine attributes and to “embellish the universe,” had determined that only those could
enter the “Heavenly Jerusalem” who were antecedently predestined thereto, it would inevitably
follow that the unfortunate remainder of humanity by the very same decree were “passed over,”
“omitted,” “overlooked,” “not elected,” or, as Gonet honestly admits, “excluded from Heaven,”
which is the same thing as being negatively condemned to hell.

The logical distinction between positive and negative reprobation, therefore, consists mainly
in this, that the former signifies absolute damnation to hell, the latter (equally absolute)
non-election to Heaven. To protect the Catholic champions of negative reprobation against unjust
aspersions, however, it is necessary to point out certain fundamental differences between their
theory and the heresy of Calvin.

Calvin and the Jansenists openly deny the universality both of God’s saving will and of the
atonement; they refuse to admit the actual bestowal of sufficient grace upon those fore-ordained
to eternal damnation; and claim that the human will loses its freedom under the predominance
of efficacious grace or concupiscence. The Catholic defenders of negative reprobation indignantly
reject the charge that their position logically leads to any such heretical implications.

c) The theory of negative reprobation can be sufficiently refuted by showing that it is incompatible
with the universality of God’s will to save all men. For if God willed absolutely and antecedently
to “exclude some men from Heaven,” as Gonet asserts, or “not to elect them to eternal glory,”
as Suarez contends, then it would be His absolute will that they perish.

α) For one thus negatively reprobated it is metaphysically impossible to attain eternal salvation.
To hold otherwise would be tantamount to assuming that an essentially absolute decree of God
can be frustrated. This consideration led certain Thomists(672) to describe the divine voluntas
salvifica as rather an ineffectual velleitas.(673) But this conflicts with the obvious teaching
of Revelation.(674) Suarez labors in vain to reconcile the sincerity of God’s salvific will
with the theory of negative reprobation. The two are absolutely irreconcilable. How could God
sincerely will the salvation of all men if it were true, as Suarez says, that “it is not in
man’s power to work out his eternal salvation in case he falls under non-election, non-predestination,
or, which amounts to the same thing, negative reprobation”?(675)

β) The cruel absurdity of the theory of negative reprobation becomes fully apparent when we
consider the attitude it ascribes to God. Gonet writes: “Foreseeing that the whole human race
would be depraved by original sin, God, in view of the merits of Christ who was to come, elected
some men to glory and, in punishment of original sin and to show His justice towards them and
His greater mercy towards the elect, permitted others to miss the attainment of beatitude,
in other words, He positively willed that they should not attain it.... In virtue of this efficacious
intention He devised appropriate means for the attainment of His purpose, and seeing that some
would miss beatitude by simply being left in the state of original sin, and others by being
permitted to fall into actual sins and to persevere therein, He formally decreed this permission,
and finally ... by a command of His intellect ordained these means towards the attainment of
the aforesaid end.”(676) Translated into plain every-day language this can only mean that God
tries with all His might to prevent the reprobate from attaining eternal salvation and sees
to it that they die in the state of sin. Suarez is perfectly right in characterizing Gonet’s
teaching as “incompatible with sound doctrine.”(677) But his own teaching is equally unsound
and cruel. For he, too, is compelled to assert: “Predestination to glory is the motive for
which efficacious or infallible means towards attaining that end are bestowed. Hence to refuse
to predestine a man for glory is to deny him the means which are recognized as fit and certain
to attain that end.”(678)

Holy Scripture fortunately speaks a different language. It describes God as a loving Father,
who “wills not that any should perish, but that all should return to penance.”(679)

γ) Practically it makes no difference whether a man is positively condemned to eternal damnation,
as Calvin and the Jansenists assert, or negatively excluded from Heaven, as held by the orthodox
theologians whom we have just quoted. The alleged distinction between positive and negative
reprobation is “a distinction without a difference.” For an adult to be excluded from Heaven
simply means that he is damned. There is no such thing as a middle state or a purely natural
beatitude. Lessius justly says that to one reprobated by God it would be all the same whether
his reprobation was positive or negative, because in either case he would be inevitably lost.(680)

    READINGS:—*Ruiz, De Praedestinatione et Reprobatione, Lyons
    1628.—Ramirez, De Praedestinatione et Reprobatione, 2 vols.,
    Alcalá 1702.—*Lessius, De Perfectionibus Moribusque Divinis,
    XIV, 2.—*IDEM, De Praedestinatione et Reprobatione (Opusc.,
    Vol. II, Paris 1878).—Tournely, De Deo, qu. 22 sqq.—Schrader,
    Commentarii, I-II, De Praedestinatione, Vienna 1865.—J. P.
    Baltzer, Des hl. Augustinus Lehre über Prädestination und
    Reprobation, Vienna 1871.—Mannens, De Voluntate Dei Salvifica et
    Praedestinatione, Louvain 1883.—O. Rottmanner, O. S. B., Der
    Augustinismus, München 1892.—O. Pfülf, S. J., “Zur
    Prädestinationslehre des hl. Augustinus,” in the Innsbruck
    Zeitschrift für kath.

Chapter III. Grace In Its Relation To Free-Will

When we speak of the relation of grace to free-will, we mean efficacious grace; merely sufficient
grace, as such, does not involve consent.

The Protestant reformers and the Jansenists denied the freedom of the human will under the
influence of efficacious grace.

Catholic theologians have always staunchly upheld both the freedom of the will and the efficacy
of grace, but they disagree in explaining the mutual relations between grace and free-will.

Section 1. The Heresy of The Protestant Reformers And The Jansenists

1. THE HERETICAL ERRORS OF LUTHER, CALVIN, AND JANSENIUS CONTRASTED WITH THE ORTHODOX TEACHING
OF THE CHURCH.—Luther and Calvin asserted that the freedom of the will was irretrievably lost
by original sin. Jansenius taught that the will is overcome by efficacious grace in exactly
the same way as it is overpowered by concupiscence in the absence of grace. Against both these
heresies the Church has always maintained that the will remains free under the influence of
efficacious grace.

a) Luther taught(681) that original sin has so completely annihilated man’s free-will that
he resembles a horse compelled to go in whatever direction it is driven (according as “God
or the devil rides him”),(682) and that the grace of Christ, far from restoring man’s liberty,
compels him to act with intestine necessity.

Calvin(683) carried this teaching to its logical conclusions by asserting: (1) that the will
of our first parents was free in Paradise, but lost its freedom by original sin; (2) that we
cannot be delivered from the slavery of Satan except by the grace of Christ, which does not,
however, restore liberty, but simply compels the will to do good; (3) that, though the will
under the influence of grace is passive, and must needs follow the impulse to which it is subjected,
yet its acts are vital and spontaneous.(684)

Against these heresies the Council of Trent maintained the existence of free-will both in the
state of original sin(685) and under the influence of efficacious grace: “If any one saith
that man’s free-will, moved and excited by God, by assenting to God exciting and calling, ...
cannot refuse its consent if it would, but that, as something inanimate, it does nothing whatever
and is merely passive: let him be anathema.”(686)

b) Jansenius differed from Luther and Calvin mainly in drawing a sharper distinction between
freedom from external constraint (libertas a coactione) and freedom from internal compulsion
(libertas a necessitate), and maintaining that the will, when under the influence of grace,
is exempt from external constraint, though not from interior compulsion, and that the libertas
a coactione is entirely sufficient to gain merit or demerit in the fallen state.(687)

The Jansenist teaching on the subject of grace may be outlined as follows: (1) By original
sin man lost the moral liberty which he had enjoyed in Paradise and became subject to a twofold
delectation—delectatio coelestis victrix and delectatio terrena sive carnalis victrix. (2)
These two delectations are continually contending for the mastery; the stronger always defeats
the weaker, (3) and the will, unable to offer resistance, is alternately overpowered now by
the one and then by the other.(688) (4) In each case the delectatio coelestis is either stronger
than the delectatio terrena, or it is weaker, or it is of equal strength. When it is stronger,
the will is overcome by grace, which in that case becomes efficax or irresistibilis. When it
is weaker, the will simply must sin, because the delectatio coelestis is too weak to overcome
the delectatio terrena. The grace given to a man under such conditions is called by the Jansenists
gratia parva sive sufficiens. When the two delectations are equally strong, the will finds
itself unable to come to a definite decision.

This false teaching inspired the famous “five propositions” of Jansenius, to-wit: (1) Man is
unable to keep some of God’s commandments for want of grace; (2) In the state of fallen nature
no one ever resists interior grace; (3) To merit or demerit in the state of fallen nature it
is sufficient to be free from external constraint; (4) The Semipelagian heresy consisted in
assuming the existence of a grace which man may either obey or resist; and (5) Christ did not
die for all men, but solely for the predestined.

These propositions were condemned as heretical by Pope Innocent X in his dogmatic Bull “Cum
occasione,” of May 31, 1653. All five are implicitly contained in the second, viz.: In the
state of fallen nature no one ever resists interior grace. “If it is true that fallen man never
resists interior grace (second proposition), it follows that a just man who violates a commandment
of God has not had the grace to observe it, that he therefore transgressed it through inability
to fulfil it (first proposition). If, however, he has sinned and thus incurred demerit, it
is clear that the liberty of indifference is not a requisite condition of demerit, and what
is said of demerit is likewise true of its correlative, merit (third proposition). On the other
hand, if grace is wanting to the just whenever they fall, it is wanting still more to sinners;
it is therefore impossible to maintain that the death of Jesus Christ assured to every man
the graces necessary for salvation (fifth proposition). As a further consequence, the Semipelagians
were in error in admitting the universal distribution of a grace which may be resisted (fourth
proposition).”(689)

2. THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH PROVED FROM REVELATION.—Far from favoring the determinism of
the Reformers and of Jansenius, the Bible and Tradition positively contradict the contention
that free-will is overpowered by grace.

a) The operation of grace and the liberty of the will never appear in Sacred Scripture as mutually
exclusive, but invariably as coöperating factors, though sometimes the one is emphasized, and
sometimes the other, according to the purpose the sacred writer happens to have in view.

The Council of Trent expressly calls attention to this:(690) “When it is said in the sacred
writings, ‘Turn ye to me, and I will turn to you,’(691) we are admonished of our liberty; and
when we answer: ‘Convert us, O God, to thee, and we shall be converted,’(692) we confess that
we are forestalled by the grace of God.”

St. Paul, it is true, asks: “Who resisteth his [God’s] will?”(693) But he also admonishes his
favorite disciple Timothy: “Exercise thyself unto godliness.”(694) St. Stephen testifies that
the grace of the Holy Ghost does not compel the will. “You always resist the Holy Ghost,” he
tells the Jews; “as your fathers did, so do you also.”(695) Our Lord Himself teaches that grace
exerts no interior compulsion but invites free coöperation: “If thou wilt enter into life,
keep the commandments.”(696) The exhortations, promises, and threats uttered in various portions
of Holy Writ would be meaningless if it were true that grace destroys free-will.(697)

b) As regards Tradition, the Greek Fathers who wrote before St. Augustine defended the freedom
of the will so energetically that they were subsequently accused of harboring Pelagian and
Semipelagian errors.(698) Calvin himself admits that with but one exception the Fathers are
unanimously opposed to his teaching.(699)

The one exception noted is St. Augustine, to whom both Calvin and Jansenius appeal with great
confidence. It should be noted, however, that the point which chiefly concerned St. Augustine
in his controversies with the Pelagians and Semipelagians, was the necessity and gratuity of
grace, not its relation to free-will. Where he incidentally touches upon the latter, he shows
by the manner in which he formulates his sentences that he regards the relation of grace to
free-will as a great mystery. But he does not try to solve this mystery in the manner in which
Alexander the Great cut the Gordian knot. He does not declare: Grace is everything, free-will
is nothing. If the power of grace destroyed the freedom of the human will, their mutual relation
would be no problem.(700) Possibly St. Augustine in the heat of controversy now and then expressed
himself in language open to misinterpretation, as when he said: “Therefore aid was brought
to the infirmity of the human will, so that it might be unchangeably and invincibly influenced
by divine grace.”(701) But this and similar phrases admit of a perfectly orthodox interpretation.
As the context shows, Augustine merely wished to assert the hegemony of grace in all things
pertaining to salvation, and to emphasize the fact that free-will, strengthened by grace, is
able to resist even the most grievous temptations.(702) At no period of his life did the Saint
deny the freedom of the will under the influence of grace. We will quote but two out of many
available passages in proof of this statement. “To yield consent or to withhold it, whenever
God calls, is the function of one’s own will.”(703) “For the freedom of the will is not destroyed
because the will is aided; but it is aided precisely for the reason that it remains free.”(704)
St. Bernard of Clairvaux echoes this teaching when, in his own ingenious way, he summarizes
the Catholic dogma as follows: “Take away free will and there will be nothing left to save;
take away grace and there will be no means left of salvation.”(705)

    READINGS:—*Bellarmine, De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio (Opera
    Omnia, ed. Fèvre, Vols. V and VI, Paris 1873).—*Dechamps, S. J.,
    De Haeresi Ianseniana, Paris 1645.—F. Wörter, Die christliche
    Lehre über das Verhältnis von Gnade und Freiheit bis auf
    Augustinus, Freiburg 1856.—*Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali,
    thes. We may take grace as the primary factor and trace it in its action
on the human will; or, starting from the latter, we may endeavor to
ascertain how free-will is affected by grace.

The first-mentioned method has given birth to two closely related theological systems, Thomism
and Augustinianism; the latter to Molinism and Congruism, which are almost identical in substance.

Besides these there is a fifth theory, which tries to reconcile the two extremes and may therefore
be called eclectic.

That the human will is free, yet subject to the influence of grace, is an article of faith
unhesitatingly accepted by all Catholic theologians. It is in trying to explain how grace and
free-will coöperate, that the above-mentioned schools differ.

In approaching this extremely difficult and obscure problem we consider it our duty to warn
the student against preconceived opinions and to remind him that the different systems which
we are about to examine are all tolerated by the Church. To-day, when so many more important
things are at stake and the faith is viciously assailed from without, the ancient controversy
between Thomism and Molinism had better be left in abeyance.

Article 1. Thomism And Augustinianism

Thomism and Augustinianism both hinge on the concept of gratia efficax ab intrinseco s. per
se, whereas Molinism and Congruism will not admit even the existence of such a grace.

1. THE THOMISTIC THEORY OF GRACE.—The true founder of the Thomistic system is not St. Thomas
Aquinas, who is also claimed by the Molinists, but the learned Dominican theologian Bañez (1528-1604).
His teaching may be summarized as follows:

a) God is the First Cause (causa prima) and Prime Mover (motor primus) of all things, and all
created or secondary causes (causae secundae) derive their being and faculties, nay, their
very acts from Him. If any creature could act independently of God, God would cease to be causa
prima and motor primus.(706)

The influence of the First Cause is universal, that is to say, it produces all creatural acts
without exception,—necessary and free, good and bad,—because no secondary cause has power to
act unless it is set in motion by the motor primus.

In influencing His creatures, however, God adapts himself to the peculiar nature of each. The
necessary causes He determines to act necessarily, the free causes, freely. All receive from
Him their substance and their mode of action.(707) The rational creature, therefore, though
subject to His determining influence, acts with perfect freedom, just as if it were not moved.

b) In spite of free-will, however, the influence which God exerts on His rational creatures
is irresistible because it proceeds from an absolute and omnipotent Being whose decrees brook
no opposition. What God wills infallibly happens.(708)

Nevertheless, God is not the author of sin. He moves the sinner to perform an act; but He does
not move Him to perform a sinful act. The malice of sin derives solely from the free will of
man.(709)

c) Since the divine influence causally precedes all creatural acts, God’s concurrence with
creatural causes (concursus generalis) must be conceived as prevenient, not simultaneous. The
Divine Omnipotence not only makes the action possible, but likewise effects it by moving the
will from potentiality to actuality.(710) Consequently, the causal influence which the Creator
exerts upon His creatures is not a mere motio, but a praemotio,—and not merely moral, but physical
(praemotio physica).(711) It is by physical premotion that God’s prevenient influence effects
the free actions of His creatures, without regard to their assent.(712) Free-will is predetermined
by God before it determines itself.(713)

d) If we analyse God’s physical predeterminations in so far as they are created entities, we
find that they are nothing else than the effect and execution of His eternal decrees, embodied
in the praedeterminatio physica. It is the temporal execution of the latter that is called
praemotio physica. Hence we are justified in speaking, not only of a temporal praemotio, but
of an eternal praedeterminatio, in fact the terms are often used synonymously.(714)

Viewed in its relation to rational creatures, this eternal predetermination is nothing but
a temporal premotion of the free will to determine itself. Since God has from all eternity
made absolute and conditional decrees, which possess the power of physical predetermination
without regard to the free consent of His creatures, physical predetermination constitutes
an infallible medium by which He can foreknow their future free actions, and hence there is
no need of a scientia media. If God knows His own will, He must also know the free determinations
included therein. To deny this would be to destroy the very foundation of His foreknowledge.(715)

This is merely the philosophical basis of the Thomistic system. Its champions carry the argument
into the theological domain by reasoning as follows: What is true in the natural must be equally
true in the supernatural sphere, as we know from reason and Revelation.(716)

e) To physical predetermination or premotion in the order of nature, there corresponds in the
supernatural sphere the gratia efficax, which predetermines man to perform salutary acts in
such wise that he acts freely but at the same time with metaphysical necessity (necessitate
consequentiae, not consequentis). It would be a contradiction to say that efficacious grace
given for the purpose of eliciting consent may co-exist with non-consent, i.e., may fail to
elicit consent.(717) The will freely assents to the divine impulse because it is effectively
moved thereto by grace. Consequently, efficacious grace does not derive its efficacy from the
consent of the will; it is efficacious of itself and intrinsically (gratia efficax ab intrinseco
sive per se).(718)

It follows that efficacious grace must be conceived as a praedeterminatio ad unum.(719)

f) If efficacious grace is intrinsically and of its very nature inseparably bound up with the
consent of the will, it must differ essentially from merely sufficient grace (gratia mere sufficiens),
which confers only the power to act (posse operari), not the act itself (actu operari). Efficacious
grace, by its very definition, includes the free consent of the will, while merely sufficient
grace lacks that consent, because with it, it would cease to be merely sufficient and would
become efficacious.(720)

Here the question naturally arises: How, in this hypothesis, can sufficient grace be called
truly sufficient? The Thomists answer this question in different ways. Gazzaniga says that
sufficient grace confers the power to perform a good deed, but that something more is required
for the deed itself.(721) De Lemos ascribes the inefficacy of merely sufficient grace to a
defect of the will.(722) If the will did not resist, God would promptly add efficacious grace.(723)

CRITICAL ESTIMATE OF THE THOMISTIC THEORY.—The Thomistic system undoubtedly has its merits.
It is logical in its deductions, exalts divine grace as the prime factor in the business of
salvation, and magnificently works out the concept of God as causa prima and motor primus both
in the natural and the supernatural order.

But Thomism also has its weak points.

A. The Thomistic conception of efficacious grace is open to two serious theological difficulties.

(1) To draw an intrinsic and substantial distinction between efficacious and merely sufficient
grace destroys the true notion of sufficient grace.

(2) The Thomistic theory of efficacious grace is incompatible with the dogma of free-will.

Though in theory the Thomists defend the sufficiency of grace and the freedom of the will as
valiantly as their opponents, they fail in their attempts at squaring these dogmas with the
fundamental principles of their system.

a) Sufficient grace, as conceived by the Thomists, is not truly sufficient to enable a man
to perform a salutary act, because ex vi notionis it confers merely the power to act, postulating
for the act itself a substantially new grace (gratia efficax). A grace which requires to be
entitatively supplemented by another, in order to enable a man to perform a salutary act, is
clearly not sufficient for the performance of that act. “To be truly sufficient for something”
and “to require to be complemented by something else” are mutually exclusive notions, and hence
“sufficient grace” as conceived by Thomists is in reality insufficient.

Many subtle explanations have been devised to obviate this difficulty. Billuart and nearly
all the later Thomists say that if any one who has received sufficient grace (in the Thomistic
sense of the term) is denied the gratia efficax, it must be attributed to a sinful resistance
of the will.(724) But this explanation is incompatible with the Thomistic teaching that together
with the gratia sufficiens there co-exists in the soul of the sinner an irresistible and inevitable
praemotio physica to the entity of sin, with which entity formal sin is inseparably bound up.(725)
If this be true, how can the will of man be held responsible so long as God denies him the
gratia ab intrinseco efficax?

Speaking in the abstract, the will may assume one of three distinct attitudes toward sufficient
grace. It may consent, it may resist, or it may remain neutral. It cannot consent except with
the aid of a predetermining gratia efficax, to merit which is beyond its power. If it withstands,
it eo ipso renders itself unworthy of the gratia efficax. If it takes a neutral attitude, (which
may in itself be a sinful act), and awaits efficacious grace, of what use is sufficient grace?

To resist sufficient grace involves an abuse of liberty. Now, where does the right use of liberty
come in? If coöperation with sufficient grace moves God to bestow the gratia per se efficax,
as the Thomists contend, then the right use of liberty must lie somewhere between the gratia
sufficiens and the gratia efficax per se. But there is absolutely no place for it in the Thomistic
system. The right use of liberty for the purpose of obtaining efficacious grace is attributable
either to grace or to unaided nature. To assert that it is the work of unaided nature would
lead to Semipelagianism. To hold that it is owing to grace would be moving in a vicious circle,
thus: “Because the will offers no resistance, it is efficaciously moved to perform a salutary
act; that it offers no sinful resistance is owing to the fact that it is efficaciously moved
to perform a salutary act.”(726)

It is impossible to devise any satisfactory solution of this difficulty which will not at the
same time upset the very foundation on which the Thomistic system rests, viz.: “Nulla secunda
causa potest operari, nisi sit efficaciter determinata a prima [scil. per applicationem potentiae
ad actum],” that is to say, no secondary cause can act unless it be efficaciously determined
by the First Cause by an application of the latter to the former as of potency to act.

b) The Thomistic gratia efficax, conceived as a praedeterminatio ad unum, inevitably destroys
free-will.

α) It is important to state the question clearly: Not physical premotion as such,(727) but
the implied connotation of praevia determinatio ad unum, is incompatible with the dogma of
free-will. The freedom of the will does not consist in the pure contingency of an act, or in
a merely passive indifference, but in active indifference either to will or not to will, to
will thus or otherwise. Consequently every physical predetermination, in so far as it is a
determinatio ad unum, must necessarily be destructive of free-will. Self-determination and
physical predetermination by an extraneous will are mutually exclusive. Now the Thomists hold
that the gratia per se efficax operates in the manner of a supernatural praedeterminatio ad
unum. If this were true, the will under the influence of efficacious grace would no longer be free.

To perceive the full force of this argument it is necessary to keep in mind the Thomistic definition
of praemotio physica as “actio Dei, quâ voluntatem humanam, priusquam se determinet, ita ad
actum movet insuperabili virtute, ut voluntas nequeat omissionem sui actus cum illa praemotione
coniungere.”(728) That is to say: As the non-performance of an act by the will is owing simply
and solely to the absence of the respective praemotio physica, so conversely, the performance
of an act is conditioned simply and solely by the presence of a divine premotion; the will
itself can neither obtain nor prevent such a premotion, because this would require a new premotion,
which again depends entirely on the divine pleasure. If the will of man were thus inevitably
predetermined by God, it could not in any sense of the term be called truly free.

                  -------------------------------------

β) The Thomists meet this argument with mere evasions. They make a distinction between necessitas
consequentis (antecedens), which really necessitates, and necessitas consequentiae (subsequens),
which does not. A free act, they say, necessarily proceeds from a physical premotion, but it
is not on that account in itself necessary. But, we answer, a determinatio ad unum, which precedes
a free act and is independent of the will, is more than a necessitas consequentiae—it is a
necessitas consequentis destructive of free-will. The Thomists reply: Considered as a created
entity, physical premotion may indeed be incompatible with free-will; not so if regarded as
an act of God, who, being almighty, is able to predetermine the will without prejudice to its
freedom.(729) The obvious rejoinder is that an intrinsic contradiction cannot be solved by
an appeal to the divine omnipotence, because even God Himself cannot do what is intrinsically
impossible.(730) He can no more change a determinatio ad unum into a libertas ad utrumque than
He can create a square circle, because the two notions involve an intrinsic contradiction.
Furthermore, if the Almighty wished intrinsically to compel a man to perform some definite
act, would He not choose precisely that praemotio physica which, the Thomists claim, also produces
free acts? Not so, replies Alvarez; “for the will remains free so long as the intellect represents
to it an object as indifferent.”(731) That is to say: Liberty remains as long as its root,
i.e. an indifferent judgment, is present. But this new rejoinder, far from solving the riddle,
simply begs the question. Liberty of choice resides formaliter in the will, not in the intellect,
and consequently the will, as will, cannot be truly free unless it possesses within itself
the unimpeded power to act or not to act. This indifferentia activa ad utrumlibet, as it is
technically termed, is absolutely incompatible with the Thomistic praemotio ad unum. What would
it avail the will to enjoy the indifferentia iudicii if it had to submit to compulsion from
some other quarter?

γ) To escape from this quandary the Thomists resort to the famous distinction between the sensus
compositus and the sensus divisus. The Molinists argue: “Liberum arbitrium efficaciter praemotum
a gratia non potest dissentire; ergo non est liberum.” The Thomists reply: “Distinguo:—non
potest dissentire in sensu diviso, nego; non potest dissentire in sensu composito, concedo.”
They explain this distinction by certain well-known examples taken from dialectics. Thus Billuart
says: “Ut si dicas, sedens potest stare, significat in sensu composito, quod possit sedere
simul et stare; ... in sensu diviso, quod sedens sub sessione retinet potentiam standi, non
tamen componendi stationem cum sessione. Uno verbo: sensus compositus importat potentiam simultaneitatis,
sensus divisus simultaneitatem  potentiae.”(732) As one who sits cannot at the same time stand
(sensus compositus), although he is free to rise (sensus divisus), so the consent of the will
effected by efficacious grace, cannot become dissent (sensus compositus), though the will retains
the power to dissent instead of consenting (sensus divisus), and this is sufficient to safeguard
its freedom.

Is the distinction between sensus compositus and sensus divisus correctly applied here? Can
the will, under the predetermining influence of the gratia efficax, change its consent into
dissent at any time and as easily as a man who is sitting on a chair can rise and thereby demonstrate
that his sitting was an absolutely free act? Alvarez(733) describes the Thomistic potentia
dissentiendi as a faculty which can never under any circumstances become active. But such a
potentia is really no potentia at all. A man tied to a chair is not free to stand; his natural
potentia standi is neutralized by external restraint. But this interpretation is untenable.
The Council plainly refers to that grace with which the will coöperates by giving its consent
(cooperatur assentiendo) and which it can render inefficacious by withdrawing its consent,
in other words, with the grace which disposes and prepares a sinner for justification, and
under the influence of which, according to Luther and Calvin, the will remains inanimate and
merely passive. This can only be the gratia efficax. Other Thomist theologians, not daring
to contradict the obvious sense of the Tridentine decree, assert that the Council intentionally
chose the term dissentire (sensus divisus) rather than resistere (sensus compositus), in order
to indicate that under the predetermining influence of grace it is possible for the will to
refuse its consent (posse dissentire) but not to offer resistance (posse resistere).(735) This
interpretation is no longer tenable since the Vatican Council has defined that “Faith, even
when it does not work by charity, is in itself a gift of God, and the act of faith is a work
appertaining to salvation, by which man yields voluntary obedience to God Himself, by assenting
to and coöperating with His grace, which he is able to resist.”(736) If efficacious grace can
be successfully resisted, it can not possess that “irresistible” influence which the Thomists
ascribe to it.(737)

                  -------------------------------------

B. The Thomistic system is open to two serious objections also from the philosophical point
of view. One of these concerns the medium by which God foreknows the future free acts of His
rational creatures; the other, His relation to sin.

a) In regard to the first-mentioned point we do not, of course, underestimate the immense difficulties
involved in the problem of God’s foreknowledge of the free acts of the future.

                  -------------------------------------

The Molinistic theory also has its difficulties, and they are so numerous and weighty that
in our treatise on God(738) we made no attempt to demonstrate the scientia media by stringent
arguments, but merely accepted it as a working hypothesis which supplies some sort of scientific
basis for the dogmas of divine omnipotence and free-will in both the natural and the supernatural
order.

b) A more serious objection than the one just adverted to is that the Thomistic hypothesis
involves the blasphemous inference that God predetermines men to sin.

α) Under a rigorous application of the Thomistic principles God would have to be acknowledged
as the cause of sin. As the predetermination of the will to justification can take no other
form than the gratia per se efficax, so sin, considered as an act, necessarily postulates the
predetermining influence of the motor primus.(739) Without this assumption it would be impossible
in the Thomistic system to find in the absolute will of God an infallible medium by which He
can foreknow future sins. Bañez says on this point: “God knows sin with an intuitive knowledge,
because His will is the cause of the sinful act, as act, at the same time permitting free-will
to concur in that act by failing to observe the law.”(740) Though the Thomists refuse to admit
that God Himself is the immediate author of sin, the conclusion is inevitable from their premises.
And this for two reasons. First, because the alleged praemotio ad malum is as irresistible
as the praemotio ad bonum; and secondly, because the material element of sin must be inseparable
from its formal element; otherwise God would foreknow sin merely materialiter as an act but
not formaliter as a sin. The teaching of the Church on this point was clearly defined by the
Council of Trent: “If any one saith that it is not in man’s power to make his ways evil, but
that the works that are evil God worketh as well as those that are good, not permissibly only,
but properly and of Himself, in such wise that the treason of Judas is no less His own proper
work than the vocation of Paul; let him be anathema.”(741)

If the rational creature were compelled to perform a sinful act, as act, resistance would be
impossible. And if it were true that the malice of an act practically cannot be separated from
its physical entity, then in the Thomistic hypothesis God would be the author not only of the
entitas but likewise of the malitia peccati. The devil tempts us only by moral means, i.e.
by suggestion; are we to assume that God tempts us physically by inducing sin as an act and
simultaneously withholding the praemotio ad bonum, thus making sin an inevitable fatality?
This consideration may be supplemented by another. So-called “sins of malice” are comparatively
rare. Most sins are committed for the sake of some pleasure or imaginary advantage. It is for
this reason that moral theology in forbidding sin forbids its physical entity. How gladly would
not those who are addicted to impurity, for instance, separate the malice from the entity of
their sinful acts, in order to be enabled to indulge their passion without offending God!

β) Against the logic of this argument some Thomist theologians defend themselves by a simile.
The soul of a lame man, they say, enables him indeed to move his disabled limb; however, the
cause of limping is not the soul but a crooked shinbone. Father Pesch wittily disposes of such
reasoning as follows: “The will of Adam before the fall was not a crooked shinbone, but it
was absolutely straight, and became crooked through physical premotion.”(742)

Another and more plausible contention of the Thomist school is that Molinism, too, is compelled
to ascribe sin somehow to God. “It is impossible for a man to sin unless God lends His coöperation.
Do not, therefore, the Molinists also make God the author of sin?” Those who argue in this
wise overlook the fact that there is a very large distinction between the concursus simultaneus
of the Molinists and the praemotio physica of the Thomists. The praemotio physica predetermines
the sinful act without regard to the circumstance whether or not the will is able to offer
resistance. The concursus simultaneus, on the other hand, begins as a mere concursus oblatus,
which is in itself indifferent and awaits as it were the free consent of the will before it
coöperates with the sinner as concursus collatus in the performance of the sinful act.(743)
For this reason the distinction between actus and malitia has a well-defined place in the Molinistic
system, whereas it is meaningless in that of the Thomists.(744)

2. AUGUSTINIANISM.—This system, so called because its defenders pretend to base it on the authority
of St. Augustine, has some points of similarity with Thomism but differs from the latter in
more than one respect, especially in this that the Augustinians,(745) though they speak with
great deference of the gratia per se efficax, hold that the will is not physically but only
morally predetermined in its free acts. Hence Augustinianism may fitly be described as the
system of the praedeterminatio moralis. Its most eminent defender is Lawrence Berti, O. S.
A. (1696-1766), who in a voluminous work De Theologicis Disciplinis(746) so vigorously championed
the Augustinian theory that Archbishop Jean d’Yse de Saléon, of Vienne,(747) and other contemporary
theologians combated his teaching as a revival of Jansenism. Pope Benedict XIV instituted an
official investigation, which resulted in a decree permitting Augustinianism to be freely held
and taught.

a) Whereas Thomism begins with the concept of causa prima and motor primus, Augustinianism
is based on the notion of delectatio coelestis or caritas. Berti holds three principles in
common with Jansenius: (1) Actual grace consists essentially in the infusion of celestial delectation.
(2) This heavenly delectation (i.e. grace) causally precedes free-will in such wise that its
relative intensity in every instance constitutes the law and standard of the will’s disposition
to do good.

(3) Simultaneously with this celestial delectation, concupiscence (delectatio carnalis, concupiscentia)
is doing its work in fallen man, and the two powers constantly contend for the mastery. So
long as celestial delectation (i.e. grace) is weaker than, or equipollent with, concupiscence,
the will inevitably fails to perform the salutary act to which it is invited by the former.
It is only when the delectatio coelestis overcomes concupiscence (delectatio coelestis victrix)
that free-will can perform the act inspired by grace. There is a fourth principle, and one,
too, of fundamental importance, which brings out the essential difference between Augustinianism
and Jansenism, viz.: the delectatio coelestis never overpowers the will but leaves it free
to choose between good and evil.(748)

b) The relation between merely sufficient and efficacious grace in the Augustinian system,
therefore, may be described as follows: Merely sufficient grace imparts to the will the posse
but not the velle, or at best only such a weak velle that it requires the delectatio victrix
(gratia efficax) to become effective. Efficacious grace (delectatio coelestis victrix), on
the other hand, impels the will actually to perform the good deed. Hence there is between the
two an essential and specific difference, and the efficacy of that grace which leads to the
performance of salutary acts does not lie with free-will but depends on the delectatio coelestis,
which must consequently be conceived as gratia efficax ab intrinseco sive per se.(749)

c) Nevertheless, the necessity of the gratia efficax ab  intrinseco, according to the Augustinian
theory, is not due to the subordination of the causa secunda to the causa prima, as the Thomists
contend, but to a constitutional weakness of human nature, consisting in this that its evil
impulses can be overcome solely by the delectatio coelestis victrix (gratia efficax, adiutorium
quo. The case was different before the Fall, when the gratia versatilis (gratia sufficiens,
adiutorium sine quo non) sufficed for the performance of salutary acts.(750)

d) However, the Augustinians insist against the Jansenists, that the delectatio coelestis (i.e.
efficacious grace) does not intrinsically compel the will, but acts merely as a praemotio moralis,
and that while the will obeys the inspiration of grace infallibly (infallibiliter) it does
not do so necessarily (non necessario). With equal certainty, though not necessarily, the will,
when equipped solely with sufficient grace, succumbs to concupiscence. The ultimate reason
for the freedom of the will is to be found in the indifferentia iudicii.(751) By way of exemplification
the Augustinians cite the case of a well-bred man who, though physically free and able to do
so, would never turn summersaults on a public thoroughfare or gouge out his own eyes.

CRITICAL ESTIMATE OF AUGUSTINIANISM.—On account of its uncritical methods Augustinianism has
found but few defenders and deserves notice only in so far as it claims to base its teaching
on St. Augustine.

Like the Bible, the writings of that holy Doctor have been quoted in support of many contradictory
systems.(752) If the use of Augustinian terms guaranteed the possession of Augustinian ideas,
Jansenius would have a strong claim to be considered a faithful disciple of St. Augustine.
Yet how widely does not the “Augustinus Iprensis,” as he has been called, differ from the “Augustinus
Hipponensis”! Augustinianism, too, utterly misconceives the terms which it employs. Space permits
us to call attention to one or two points only.

a) In the first place Augustinianism labors under an absolutely false conception of sufficient
grace.

How can that grace be sufficient for justification which is first described in glowing colors
as parva et invalida and then in the same breath is declared to be insufficient except when
reinforced by a gratia magna in the shape of delectatio victrix? What kind of “grace” can that
be which in its very nature is so constituted that the will, under the prevailing influence
of concupiscence, infallibly does the opposite of that to which it is supernaturally impelled?
It is quite true that the distinction between gratia parva and gratia magna(753) is found in
St. Augustine. However, he understands by gratia parva not sufficient grace, but the grace
of prayer (gratia remote sufficiens), and by gratia magna, not efficacious grace as such, but
grace sufficient to perform a good act (gratia proxime sufficiens).(754)

b) Augustinianism is unable to reconcile its theory of a praemotio moralis with the dogma of
free-will.

Under the Augustinian system the influence of efficacious grace can be conceived in but two
ways. Either it is so strong that the will is physically unable to withhold its consent; or
it is only strong enough that the consent of the will can be inferred with purely moral certainty.
In the former alternative we have a prevenient necessity which determines the will ad unum
and consequently destroys its freedom. In the latter, there can be no infallible foreknowledge
of the future free acts of rational creatures on the part of God, because the Augustinians
reject the scientia media of the Molinists and expressly admit that the same grace which proves
effective in one man remains ineffective in another because of the condition of his heart.(755)

c) Finally, the three fundamental principles of the Augustinian system are false and have no
warrant in the writings of St. Augustine.

It is not true that pleasure (delectatio) is the font and well-spring of all supernaturally
good deeds. Such deeds may also be inspired by hatred, fear, sorrow, etc.(756) With many men
the fear of God or a sense of duty is as strong an incentive to do good as the sweet consciousness
of treading the right path. St. Augustine did not regard “celestial delectation” as the essential
mark of efficacious grace, nor concupiscence as the characteristic note of sin.(757)

The second and third principles of the Augustinian system are likewise false. If delectation
is only one motive among many, its varying intensity cannot be the standard of our conduct;
and still less can it be said that the will is morally compelled in each instance to obey the
relatively stronger as against the weaker delectation; for any necessitation that does not
depend on the free will excludes the libertas a coactione, but not that libertas a necessitate
which constitutes the notion of liberty. There can be no freedom of the will unless the will
is able to resist delectation at all times. Consequently, the fourth principle of the Augustinians,
by which they pretend to uphold free-will, is also false.(758)

    READINGS:—The literature on the different systems of grace is
    enormous. We can mention only a few of the leading works.

    On the Thomist side: *Bañez, O. P., Comment. in S. Theol. S.
    Thom., Salamanca 1584 sqq.—*Alvarez, O. P., De Auxiliis Gratiae
    et Humani Arbitrii Viribus, Rome 1610.—IDEM, Responsionum Libri
    Quatuor, Louvain 1622.—Ledesma, O. P., De Divinae Gratiae
    Auxiliis, Salamanca 1611.—*Gonet, O. P., Clypeus Theologiae
    Thomisticae, 16 vols., Bordeaux 1659-69.—Contenson, O. P.,
    Theologia Mentis et Cordis, Lyons 1673.—De Lemos, O. P.,
    Panoplia Divinae Gratiae, 4 vols., Liège 1676.—Goudin, O. P.,
    De Scientia et Voluntate Dei, new ed., Louvain 1874.—*Gotti, O.
    P., Theologia Scholastico-Dogmatica iuxta Mentem  Divi Thomae,
    Venice 1750.—Gazzaniga, O. P., Theologia Dogmatica in Systema
    Redacta, 2 vols., Vienne 1776.—*Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 5
    (ed. Lequette, t. III, pp. 123 sqq.).—IDEM, Le Thomisme
    Triomphant, Paris 1725.—*Fr. G. Feldner, O. P., Die Lehre des
    hl. Thomas über die Willensfreiheit, Prague 1890.—IDEM, in
    Commer’s Jahrbuch für Philosophie und spekulative Theologie,
    1894 sqq.—*Dummermuth, O. P., S. Thomas et Doctrina Praemotionis
    Physicae, Paris 1886.—I. A. Manser, Possibilitas Praemotionis
    Physicae Thomisticae, Fribourg (Switzerland) 1895.—Joh. Ude,
    Doctrina Capreoli de Influxu Dei in Actus Voluntatis Humanae,
    Graz 1905.—Del Prado, De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, 3 vols.,
    Fribourg (Switzerland) 1907.—P. Garrigou-Lagrange, S. Thomas et
    le Néomolinisme, Paris 1917.

    On the Augustinian side: Card. Norisius, Vindiciae
    Augustinianae, Padua 1677.—*Berti, De Theologicis Disciplinis,
    8 vols., Rome 1739 sqq.—Bellelli, Mens Augustini de Modo
    Reparationis Humanae Naturae, 2 vols., Rome 1773.—L. de
    Thomassin, Mémoires sur la Grâce, etc., Louvain 1668.

    For a list of Molinistic and Congruistic authors see pp. 269 sq.

Article 2. Molinism And Congruism

The point in which these two systems meet, and in regard to which they differ from Thomism
and Augustinianism, is the definition of efficacious grace as efficax ab extrinseco sive per
accidens.

This conception was violently attacked by the Spanish Dominican Bañez and other divines. About
1594, the controversy between the followers of Bañez and the Molinists waxed so hot that Pope
Clement VIII appointed a special commission to settle it. This was the famous Congregatio de
Auxiliis, consisting of picked theologians from both the Dominican and the Jesuit orders. It
debated the matter for nine full years without arriving at a decision. Finally Pope Paul V,
at the suggestion of St. Francis de Sales, declared both systems to be orthodox and defensible,
and strictly forbade the contending parties to denounce each other as heretical.(759)

While Thomism devoted its efforts mainly to the defense of grace, Molinism made it its chief
business to champion the dogma of free-will.

1. MOLINISM.—Molinism takes its name from the Jesuit Luis de Molina, who published a famous
treatise under the title Concordia Liberi Arbitrii cum Gratiae Donis at Lisbon, in 1588. His
teaching may be outlined as follows:

a) In actu primo there is no intrinsic and ontological but merely an extrinsic and accidental
distinction between efficacious and sufficient grace, based upon their respective effects.
Sufficient grace becomes efficacious by the consent of the will; if the will resists, grace
remains inefficacious (inefficax) and merely sufficient (gratia mere sufficiens). Consequently,
one and the same grace may be efficacious in one case and inefficacious in another. It all
depends on the will.(760)

b) This theory involves no denial of the priority and superior dignity of grace in the work
of salvation. The will, considered as a mere faculty, and in actu primo, is raised to the supernatural
order by prevenient grace (gratia praeveniens), which imparts to it all the moral and physical
power necessary to perform free salutary acts. Neither can the actus secundus be regarded as
a product of the unaided will; it is the result of grace coöperating with free-will.(761) Consequently,
the will by giving its consent does not increase the power of grace, but it is grace which
makes possible, prepares, and aids the will in performing free acts. To say that the influence
of grace goes farther than this would be to assert that it acts independently of the will,
and would thereby deny the freedom of the latter.(762)

c) The infallibility with which efficacious grace works its effects is to be explained not
by God’s absolute will, but by His infallible foreknowledge through the scientia media,—a Molinistic
postulate which was first defined and scientifically demonstrated by Father Fonseca, S. J.,
the teacher of Suarez.(763) God foreknows not only the absolutely free acts (futura) of His
rational creatures by the scientia visionis, but likewise their hypothetically free acts (futuribilia)
by means of the scientia media, and hence He infallibly knows from all eternity what attitude
the free-will of man would assume in each case if grace were given him. Consequently, when
God, in the light of this eternal foreknowledge, actually bestows a grace, this grace will
prove efficacious or inefficacious according as He has foreknown whether the will will give
or withhold its consent. Thus can the infallibility of efficacious grace be reconciled with
the dogma of free-will without prejudice to such other dogmas as final perseverance and the
predestination of the elect, because God by virtue of the scientia media has it absolutely
in His power to give or withhold His graces in each individual case.(764)

CRITICAL ESTIMATE OF MOLINISM.—Even the most determined opponents of Molinism admit that this
system possesses three important advantages.

a) First, it gives a satisfactory account of the sufficiency of “merely sufficient grace,”
which in its physical nature does not differ essentially from efficacious grace.

Second, Molinism safeguards free-will by denying that efficacious grace either physically or
morally predetermines the will to one course of action.

Third, Molinism explains in a fairly satisfactory manner why efficacious grace is infallibly
efficacious. God in virtue of the scientia media knows with metaphysical certainty from all
eternity which graces in each individual case will prove efficacious through the free consent
of the will and which will remain inefficacious, and is thereby enabled to bestow or withhold
grace according to His absolute decrees.

b) The question may justly be raised, however, whether, in endeavoring to safeguard freewill,
the Molinists do not undervalue grace, which is after all the primary and decisive factor in
the work of salvation.

There is something incongruous in the notion that the efficacy or inefficacy of divine grace
should depend on the arbitrary pleasure of a created will. If sufficient grace does not become
efficacious except by the consent of the will, how can the resultant salutary act be said to
be an effect of grace? St. Paul, St. Augustine, and the councils of the Church do not say:
“Deus facit, si volumus,” but they declare: “Deus facit, ut faciamus,” “Deus ipse dat ipsum
velle et facere et perficere,” and so forth. What can this mean if not: Divine grace need not
concern itself with external circumstances, occasions, humors, etc., but it takes hold of the
sinner and actually converts him, without regard to anything except the decree of the Divine
Will. On account of this and similar difficulties Cardinal Bellarmine, who was a champion and
protector of P. Molina, seems to have rejected Molinism(765) in favor of Congruism.(766)

c) The same reasons that induced Bellarmine to embrace Congruism probably led the Jesuit General
Claudius Aquaviva, in 1613, to order all teachers of theology in the Society to lay greater
emphasis on the Congruistic element in the notion of efficacious grace. This measure was quite
in harmony with the principles defended by the Jesuit members of the Congregatio de Auxiliis
before Clement VIII and Paul V. Aquaviva’s order is of sufficient importance to deserve a place
in the text of this volume: “Nostri in posterum omnino doceant, inter eam gratiam quae effectum
re ipsâ habet atque efficax dicitur, et eam quam sufficientem nominant, non tantum discrimen
esse in actu secundo, quia ex usu liberi arbitrii etiam cooperantem gratiam habentis effectum
sortiatur, altera non item; sed in ipso actu primo, quod positâ scientiâ conditionalium [scientiâ
mediâ] ex efficaci Dei proposito atque intentione efficiendi certissime in nobis boni, de industria
ipse ea media seligit atque eo modo et tempore confert, quo videt effectum, infallibiliter
habitura, aliis usurus, si haec inefficacia praevidisset. Quare semper moraliter et in ratione
beneficii plus aliquid in efficaci, quam in sufficienti gratia est, in actu primo contineri:
atque hac ratione efficere Deum, ut re ipsâ faciamus, non tantum quia dat gratiam quâ facere
possimus. Quod idem dicendum est de perseverantia, quae procul dubio donum est.” This modified,
or perhaps we had better say, more sharply determined form of Molinism is called Congruism.(767)

2. CONGRUISM.—The system thus recommended by Aquaviva in its fundamental principles really
originated with Molina himself. It was developed by the great Jesuit theologians Suarez, Vasquez,
and Lessius, and became the official system of the Society of Jesus under Muzio Vitelleschi
(d. 1645) and Piccolomini (d. 1651).

a) The distinction between gratia congrua and gratia incongrua is founded on the writings of
St. Augustine, who speaks of the elect as “congruenter vocati.”(768) The Congruists maintain
against the extreme Molinists that the efficacy of grace is not attributable solely to a free
determination of the will, but, at least in part, to the fact that grace is bestowed under
circumstances favorable to its operation, i.e. “congruous” in that sense. When the circumstances
are comparatively adverse (incongrua), grace remains merely sufficient. A prudent father who
knows how to govern his children without physical force will speak the right word to each at
the proper time. Similarly God adapts His grace, if it is to prove efficacious, to the circumstances
of each individual case, thereby attaining His purpose without fail. Thus the reckless youth
on the city streets needs more powerful graces than the pious nun in her secluded convent cell,
because he is exposed to stronger temptations and his environment is unfavorable to religious
influences. Since grace is conferred with a wise regard to temperament, character, inclinations,
prejudices, time and place, there exists between it and free-will a sort of intrinsic affinity,
which in the hands of God becomes an infallible means of executing His decrees.(769)

b) The actual bestowal of congruous grace, considered in actu primo, is undoubtedly a special
gift of God, and hence the gratia congrua possesses a higher value than the gratia incongrua
sive inefficax. An entitatively weaker impulse of grace, if conferred under comparatively favorable
conditions, is more precious than a stronger impulse which fails in its purpose by reason of
unfavorable circumstances created by inclination, training, or environment. Little David accomplished
more with a handful of pebbles in his scrip than had he been heavily armed.(770)

c) Congruism assigns a far more important rôle to grace than extreme Molinism. It makes the
will depend on efficacious grace, not the efficacy of grace upon the will. Bellarmine illustrates
this difference by the example of a sermon which, under an entirely equal distribution of internal
grace, converts one sinner while it leaves another untouched.(771)

CRITICAL ESTIMATE OF CONGRUISM.—Among the different systems devised for the purpose of harmonizing
the dogmas of grace and free-will, Congruism probably comes nearest the truth. It strikes a
golden mean between the two extremes of Pelagianism and Semipelagianism on the one hand, and
Calvinism and Jansenism on the other, and its principal theses can be supported by clear and
unmistakable passages from the writings of St. Augustine.

a) Other points in its favor are the following: “Sufficient grace,” in the Congruist hypothesis,
is truly sufficient so far as God is concerned, because its inefficaciousness is attributable
solely to the human will. That free-will is properly safeguarded under the influence of efficacious
grace (gratia congrua) is admitted even by theologians of the opposing schools. True, Congruism
does not regard the will as an abstract notion, but as a factor closely interwoven with the
concrete circumstances of daily life. As favorable circumstances (education, association, temperament)
merely influence the will but do not compel it, so supernatural grace (gratia congrua s. efficax)
may soften the will and occasionally even break down its resistance, but (rare cases excepted)(772)
will never compel it to do good. Congruism marks a distinct advance over extreme Molinism also
in this, that it bases the difference between gratia efficax (congrua) and gratia inefficax
not entirely on the will of man, but likewise on the will of God, whereby it is able to explain
such formulas as “Deus facit, ut faciamus,” “Deus est, qui discernit,” etc., in a manner entirely
compatible with the dogmatic teaching of the Church.(773)

The modus operandi of the gratia congrua (efficacious grace) is explained by Congruism, in
common with Molinism, as follows: There is a threefold efficacy: the efficacy of power (efficacia
virtutis), the efficacy of union (efficacia connexionis), and the efficacy of infallible success
(efficacia infallibilitatis). Grace (both efficacious and sufficient) does not derive its efficacia
virtutis from the free-will of man, nor from the knowledge of God (scientia media), but from
itself. The efficacia connexionis (of union between act and grace) on the other hand, depends
entirely on the free-will, since, according to the Council of Trent as well as that of the
Vatican, efficacious grace does not operate irresistibly but can be “cast off.” The efficacia
infallibilitatis springs from God’s certain foreknowledge (scientia media), which cannot be
deceived.(774)

b) Nevertheless, it would be unreasonable to contend that Congruism solves all difficulties.
The mystery surrounding both the unequal distribution of efficacious grace and the scientia
media still remains. Moreover, the theory that God adjusts himself slavishly to all the circumstances
of His creatures, can hardly be reconciled with His dignity and omnipotence. It would no doubt
be far worthier of His majesty to seize upon the free will of man and compel it to perform
the salutary act which He wishes it to perform. Whoever has studied the lives of saints and
eminent converts knows that the sudden and seemingly unaccountable changes of heart which many
of them have experienced can hardly be regarded as miracles in the strict sense, though on
the other hand it seems certain that grace worked in them with little or no regard to the “congruity”
of circumstances. Again, it is one of the highest and most sublime missions of grace not to
be balked by unfavorable circumstances but to re-shape them by changing a man’s temperament,
dulling concupiscence, weakening the power of temptation, and so forth. In other words, grace
does not depend on but controls and fashions the circumstances of the recipient.

After all is said, therefore, the relation of grace and free-will still remains an unsolved
mystery.(775)

3. SYNCRETISM.—Seeing that each of the different systems which we so far reviewed contains
grains of truth, some theologians(776) have adopted the good points of all four and combined
them into a fifth, called Syncretism.

These authors begin by assuming the existence of two quite distinct sorts of efficacious grace,
the (Thomistic-Augustinian) gratia efficax ab intrinseco, and the (Molinistic-Congruistic)
gratia efficax ab extrinseco. The former, they contend, is bestowed for the performance of
more difficult good works, such as resisting grievous temptations, observing onerous precepts,
exercising patience in severe tribulation, etc.; while the latter enables man to accomplish
less difficult acts, such as short prayers, slight mortifications, etc. The connecting link
between the two is prayer, which has been instituted for the purpose of enabling man to obtain
that gratia efficax ab intrinseco which is necessary for the performance of the more difficult
works of salvation. Sacred Scripture teaches that prayer originates in grace, that it is binding
upon all men, and that it accomplishes its purpose infallibly.(777)

CRITICAL ESTIMATE OF SYNCRETISM.—The outstanding characteristic of Syncretism is its insistence
on prayer as a highly important, not to say the most important, factor in the work of salvation.

a) In this the Syncretistic school is undoubtedly right. Sacred Scripture and Tradition both
strongly emphasize the importance and necessity of prayer, so much so that one naturally expects
to find prayer playing an essential and indispensable rôle in every complete and orthodox system
of grace. “The present economy of grace is essentially and intrinsically an economy of prayer,”
is a theological axiom which cannot be too strongly insisted upon. To have brought out this
great truth forcibly and luminously is the merit of Syncretism.

b) We do not mean to intimate, however, that the Syncretistic theory has solved the problem
of the relation between free-will and grace. On the contrary, by adopting two such heterogeneous
concepts as gratia efficax ab intrinseco and gratia efficax ab extrinseco it has actually increased
the difficulties found in the other systems. For now we are put before the dilemma:—the Thomistic
gratia efficax either supposes free-will or it does not: if it does, there is no reason to
limit this grace to the more difficult works of salvation; if it does not, then the gratia
efficax can be of no assistance in the performance of more difficult works, because these too,
to be meritorious, require the coöperation of free-will.

The Syncretists try to evade this dilemma by contending that prayer, as
the connecting link, communicates its own liberty and meritoriousness to
the salutary acts performed through its agency, in other words, that these
acts are the effect of prayer (effectus orationis). But aside from the
fact that prayer itself is quite often a difficult act, the more arduous
works of salvation would in the Syncretist hypothesis be stripped of their
meritoriousness and degraded to the level of a voluntarium in causa,
which is an untenable assumption.(778) Finally, there is something
illogical and unsatisfactory in admitting on equal terms, as it were, two
such incompatible notions as the Thomistic cognitio Dei in decretis
praedeterminantibus and the Molinistic scientia media. Paris 1876).—Platel, S. J., Auctoritas contra
    Praedeterminationem Physicam pro Scientia Media, Douai
    1669.—Henao, S. J., Scientia Media Historice Propugnata, Lyons
    1655.—IDEM, Scientia Media Theologice Defensa, Lyons 1674-6.—De
    Aranda, S. J., De Deo Sciente, Praedestinante et Auxiliante seu
    Schola Scientiae Mediae, Saragossa 1693.—*Suarez, S. J., De
    Concursu, Motione et Auxilio Dei, new ed., Paris 1856.—IDEM, De
    Auxilio Efficaci, Paris ed., 1856, t. XI.—IDEM, De Vera
    Intelligentia Auxilii Efficacis (Op. Posthum., t. X,
    Appendix).—*Lessius, S. J., De Gratia Efficaci (Opusc., t. II,
    Paris 1878).—Sardagna, S. J., Theologia Dogmatico-Polemica,
    Ratisbon 1771.—Wirceburgenses (Kilber, S. J.), De Gratia, new
    ed., Paris 1853.—Murray, De Gratia, Dublin 1877.—B. Jungmann, S.
    J., De Gratia, 6th ed., Ratisbon 1896.—Th. de Régnon, S. J.,
    Bañez et Molina, Histoire, Doctrines, Critique, Métaphysique,
    Paris 1883.—Card. Mazzella, S. J., De Gratia Christi, 3rd ed.,
    Rome 1882.—Palmieri, S. J., De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes.
    49-58, Gulpen 1885.—*V. Frins, S. J., S. Thomae Doctrina de
    Cooperatione Dei cum Omni  Natura Creata, Praesertim Libera, seu
    S. Thomas Praedeterminationis Physicae Adversarius, Paris
    1890.—*Schiffini, S. J., De Gratia Divina, disp. 5, Freiburg
    1901.—Card. Billot, S. J., De Gratia Christi et Libero Hominis
    Arbitrio, I, Rome 1908.—Limbourg, S. J. “Selbstzeichnung der
    thomistischen Gnadenlehre,” in the Innsbruck Zeitschrift für
    kath.

    Among the theologians who have tried to harmonize Thomism and
    Molinism we may mention, besides Ysambert and St. Alphonsus de’
    Liguori, *Tournely, De Gratia, Venice 1755.—Card. Jos. Pecci,
    Sentenza di S. Tommaso circa l’Influsso di Dio sulle Azioni delle
    Creature Ragionevoli e sulla Scienza Media, Rome 1885.—A.
    Adeodatus, J. Pecci’s Schrift: Lehre des hl. Thomas über den
    Einfluss Gottes, etc., analysiert, Mainz 1888.—C. Krogh-Tonning,
    De Gratia Christi et de Libero Arbitrio S. Thomae Doctrina,
    Christiania 1898.—J. Herrmann, C. SS. R., De Divina Gratia, Rome
    1904.

    The history of the great controversy between Thomism and Molinism
    can be studied in H. Serry, O. P., Historia Congregationum de
    Auxiliis Divinae Gratiae, Louvain 1700 and Antwerp 1709.—Livinus
    de Meyer, S. J., Historia Controversiarum de Divinae Gratiae
    Auxiliis, Antwerp 1705.—*Schneemann, S. J., Entstehung der
    thomistisch-molinistischen Controverse, Freiburg 1879.—*IDEM,
    Weitere Entwicklung der thomistisch-molinistischen Controverse,
    Freiburg 1880.—*IDEM, Controversiarum de Divinae Gratiae
    Liberique Arbitrii Concordia Initia et Progressus, Freiburg 1881.

PART II. SANCTIFYING GRACE

The grace of justification, commonly called sanctifying grace, is related to actual grace as
an end to its means. Actual grace introduces the state of sanctifying grace or preserves and
augments it where it already exists.

This fact makes it advisable to consider the genesis of sanctifying grace before studying its
nature and effects.

We shall therefore treat in three chapters: (1) of the Process of Justification (iustificatio
in fieri); (2) of the State of Justification (iustificatio in esse), and (3) of the Fruits
of Justification (iustificatio in facto esse), or the Merit of Good Works.

Chapter I. The Genesis Of Sanctifying Grace, Or The Process Of Justification

The justification of an adult human being does not take place suddenly, but runs through certain
well-defined stages, which in their totality are called the process of justification.

Being a “regeneration in God,” justification bears a striking resemblance to the development
of the fœtus in the maternal womb. Like physical birth, spiritual regeneration is preceded
by travailing, i.e. fear and painful contrition.

The dogmatic teaching of the Catholic Church on justification is formally defined by the Tridentine
Council, whose decrees(780) contain a masterly analysis of this most interesting of psychological
processes. The holy Synod puts faith at the beginning. “Faith,” it says, “is the beginning
of human salvation, the foundation and the root of all justification.”(781) The nature of faith
and the part it plays in justification were the chief points in dispute between the Church
and the so-called Reformers. Luther and his followers denatured the traditional Catholic teaching
by basing justification solely on faith, which they falsely defined as mere confidence or trust
in the mercy of God.

Section 1. The Necessity Of Faith For Justification

1. THE LUTHERAN HERESY VS. THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH.—The Protestant Reformers, notably Luther
and Calvin, did not deny that justification is wrought by faith, but they defined justifying
faith in a manner altogether foreign to the mind of the Church.

a) They distinguished three kinds of faith: (1) belief in the existence of God and the historical
fact that Christ has come on earth, suffered, and ascended (fides historica); (2) the sort
of trust which is required for exercising the gift of miracles (fides miraculorum); and (3)
faith in the divine promises with regard to the remission of sin (fides promissionum). The
last-mentioned species of faith they subdivided into general and particular. Fides generalis
is that by which we believe that the righteousness of Christ “covers” (but does not wipe out)
our sins. Fides specialis or fiduciary faith (fiducia) is that by which a man applies to himself
the righteousness of the Redeemer, firmly trusting that his sins are for Christ’s sake not
imputed to him. Thus the Reformers erroneously transferred the seat of justifying faith from
the intellect to the will and completely subverted the Catholic notion of faith as an intellectual
assent to revealed truth.

b) To this fundamental error the Fathers of Trent opposed the orthodox doctrine that (adults)
“are disposed unto justice when, excited and assisted by divine grace, receiving faith by hearing,
they are freely moved towards God, believing those things to be true which God has revealed
and promised, ...”(782) and they solemnly anathematized those who assert “that justifying faith
is nothing else but confidence in the divine mercy which remits sin for Christ’s sake, or that
this confidence alone is that whereby we are justified.”(783)

Hence it is de fide that the faith whereby man is justified, is not a confident persuasion
of being esteemed righteous in the sight of God, but a dogmatic or theoretical belief in the
truths of Divine Revelation.

2. That “Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God.” This is a revealed truth by firmly believing
which we shall be saved. When the treasurer of Queen Candace begged to be baptized, Philip
the deacon said to him: “If thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest.” The eunuch replied:
“I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God,” whereupon Philip baptized him.(787)

β) St. Paul in his Epistles to the Romans and the Galatians eloquently insists on the necessity
of faith, not a mere fides fiducialis, but a believing acceptance of Divine Revelation. Cfr.
Rom. External profession and internal faith go together and have for their common object a
certain truth open to our knowledge, viz.: the resurrection of Christ,—a dogma in which the
whole teaching of the atonement lies imbedded.

The character of justifying faith is still more plainly evident from Heb. XI, 6: “Without faith
it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God [he that is to be justified], must
believe that He is [the existence of God], and is a rewarder to them that seek Him.”(789) The
Apostle here clearly asserts both the necessity of justifying faith and the minimum of doctrine
to be explicitly “believed,” viz.: the existence of God and eternal retribution.(790)

γ) The Lutherans appeal chiefly to Matth. IX, 2, Luke XVII, 19, Rom. IV, 5, and Heb. XI, 1.
But not a single one of these texts represents fiduciary faith as the instrumental cause of
justification. The word πίστις occurs no less than eighty times in the Synoptic Gospels and
in St. Paul’s Epistle to the Romans, but there are only six passages in which it could possibly
be construed as synonymous with fiducia, and in none of these is the interpretation entirely
certain. Not once does the New Testament employ πίστις in the sense of “fiduciary faith,” i.e.
a confident persuasion of one’s own righteousness.(791)

b) Tradition is in such perfect agreement with Scripture on this point that the Reformers did
not venture to deny that their doctrine ran counter to the time-honored teaching of the Church.
The Fathers unanimously insist on the necessity of dogmatic faith as a requisite of justification.

α) St. Fulgentius of Ruspe, who is regarded as “the best theologian of his time” (468-533),(792)
in his golden booklet De Fide seu de Regula Verae Fidei ad Petrum, says: “I rejoice that you
take care to preserve the true faith without which conversion is useless, nay, impossible.
Apostolic authority tells us that we cannot please God without faith. For faith is the foundation
of all good [works]; it is the beginning of human salvation, and without it no one can obtain
a place among the children of God, because without it no one can obtain the grace of justification
in this world or possess eternal life in the next.”(793) St. Fulgentius was a faithful disciple
of St. Augustine, and the whole trend of his treatise shows that by vera fides he understands
not the Lutheran fiducia propriae iustificationis, but Catholic belief in revealed truth.(794)

β) This teaching is corroborated by the ancient practice of instructing the catechumens in
the truths of revelation and requiring them to make a public profession of faith before Baptism.
It was because they believed and professed the true faith that the early Christians, who knew
nothing of the Lutheran fides fiducialis, were called “faithful” (fideles, πιστοί), to distinguish
them from false believers or heretics (haeretici, αἱρητικοὶ, from αἱρεῖσθαι to choose), who
denied some portion or other of the orthodox creed.

c) In analyzing the notions of fides and necessitas theologians distinguish between fides explicita
and fides implicita, and between necessitas medii and necessitas praecepti.

Fides explicita is an express and fully developed belief in the truths of revelation; fides
implicita, a virtual belief in whatever may be contained in a dogma explicitly professed. I
make an act of implicit faith when I say, for instance: “I believe whatever the Church teaches,”
or: “I heartily accept whatever God has revealed.”

The necessitas medii is based on the objective relation of means to an end, and consequently
binds all men, even the ignorant and those who are in error without their own fault. Such,
for example, is the necessity of the eye for seeing, of wings for flying, of grace for performing
salutary acts, of the lumen gloriae for the beatific vision. The necessitas praecepti, on the
other hand, is founded entirely on the will of God, who positively commands or forbids under
pain of grievous sin, but is willing to condone non-compliance with his precepts when it is
owing to guiltless ignorance. This applies to all positive divine precepts, e.g. the law of
fasting and abstinence. It is to be noted that the necessitas medii always involves the necessitas
praecepti, because God must needs will and impose upon us by positive precept whatever is objectively
necessary as a means of salvation.

α) The first question that arises with regard to this twofold faith and necessity is: Are sinners
preparing for justification, and the faithful in general, obliged by necessity of precept to
believe explicitly all revealed truths? The answer is, No; because this is practically impossible,
and God does not demand the impossible.

Generally speaking, it is sufficient to have an explicit knowledge of, and give one’s firm
assent to, the more important dogmas and moral precepts—the twelve articles of the Apostles’
Creed, the Commandments of God and the Church, the Sacraments (as needed), and the Our Father.
All other revealed truths need be held only fide implicitâ.(795) More is of course demanded
of educated persons and those who are in duty bound to instruct others, such as priests and
teachers.(796)

β) A more important and more difficult question is this: Are there any dogmas, and if so how
many, which must be believed by all men fide explicitâ and necessitate medii? St. Paul says:
“Without faith it is impossible to please God, for he that cometh to God, must believe that
He is, and is a rewarder to them that seek Him.”(797)

With but few exceptions,(798) Catholic theologians maintain that the Apostle in this passage
means theological faith, based upon supernatural motives. This interpretation is borne out
by the context, by such parallel texts as John III, 11 sqq., 32 sqq., 2 Tim. I, 12, 1 John
V, 9 sq., and by the decisions of several councils.(799) There can be no reasonable doubt that
all men, to be justified and saved, must have an explicit belief in at least two dogmas, viz.:
the existence of God and eternal retribution. Pope Innocent XI condemned the Jansenist proposition
that explicit belief in divine retribution is not necessary for salvation.(800)

Are there any other dogmas which must be explicitly believed necessitate medii? The only dogmas
which might come in question are: the Trinity, the Incarnation, the immortality of the soul,
and the necessity of grace. The last-mentioned two may be omitted from the list, because St.
Paul does not mention them,(801) and for the additional reason that belief in immortality is
included in the dogma of eternal retribution, while the necessity of grace is inseparably bound
up with the dogma of Divine Providence, which in its turn is but a particular aspect of eternal
retribution.(802) Hence the only two dogmas in regard to which the question at the beginning
of this paragraph can reasonably be asked, are the Blessed Trinity and the Incarnation.

Theologians are divided in the matter. Some maintain that no human being can or could ever
be saved without explicit belief in both the Trinity and the Incarnation. Others(803) hold
that this necessitas medii did not exist under the Old Covenant. A third school(804) avers
that no such necessity can be proved either for the Old or the New Dispensation.

The first of these three opinions is excessively rigorous and intrinsically improbable. The
Jews had no clearly revealed knowledge of the Trinity and the Incarnation, and consequently
were under no obligation to believe them. As the divinely constituted guardians of the Messianic
prophecies, they were bound to believe in the Redeemer, though only necessitate praecepti.
The gentiles were dispensed even from this.

The second opinion, which limits the necessitas medii to the New Testament, lacks solid proof.
The Scripture texts cited in its support merely prove the efficaciousness of belief in Christ,(805)
or the duty of embracing that belief on the strength of the Apostolic preaching,(806) or, finally,
the impossibility of redemption except through the mediation of Jesus;(807)—all truths which
in themselves have nothing to do with the question under discussion.

The third and most probable opinion is that even under the New Covenant, explicit faith in
Christ, and a fortiori in the Divine Trinity, cannot be regarded as an indispensable medium
of justification and salvation, (1) because St. Paul does not mention these two dogmas in the
decisive passage, Heb. XI, 6; and (2) because a supernatural act of justifying love and contrition
may be inspired by belief in the existence of God and divine retribution; and (3) because this
latter belief implicitly, by way of desire (fides in voto), includes belief in Christ and the
Trinity.(808) Nevertheless it must be held that an adult who desires to be received into the
Church and is baptized in the name of the Most Holy Trinity, is bound to believe in the Trinity
and the Incarnation by more than a mere necessitas praecepti, namely, by what is technically
called necessitas medii per accidens, a necessity from which God dispenses only in exceptional
cases, when it is either physically or morally impossible to elicit an act of explicit faith.(809)
It is for this reason that the Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office decided, February 28,
1703, that missionaries are bound to explain to all adult converts who have the use of reason,
even though they be near death, those mysteries of the faith which are necessary for salvation
necessitate medii, especially the Trinity and the Incarnation.(810)

Section 2. The Necessity Of Other Preparatory Acts Besides Faith

1. HERETICAL ERRORS AND THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH.—Martin Luther, to quiet his conscience,
evolved the notion that faith alone justifies and that the Catholic doctrine of the necessity
of good works is pharisaical and derogatory to the merits of Jesus Christ. This teaching was
incorporated into the symbolic books of the Lutherans(811) and adopted by Calvin.(812) It has
been called one of the two basic errors of Protestantism. The Tridentine Council solemnly condemns
it as follows: “If anyone saith that by faith alone the impious is justified, in such wise
as to mean that nothing else is required to coöperate in order to obtain the grace of justification,
and that it is not in any way necessary that he be prepared and disposed by the movement of
his own will; let him be anathema.”(813) Other acts that dispose or prepare the soul for justification,
according to the same Council, are: the fear of divine justice; hope in God’s mercy; charity,
which is the font of all righteousness; detestation of sin, and penitence.(814)

2. REFUTATION OF THE SOLA FIDES THEORY.—The Lutheran theory involves an open rupture with the
traditional teaching of the Church and is positively unscriptural. Luther himself felt this,
as appears from his interpolation of the word “alone” in Rom. III, 28 and his rejection of
the entire canonical Epistle of St. James.(815)

a) The teaching of the Bible in regard to the rôle played by good works in the process of justification
may be summarized as follows:

(1) A man may believe all that the Church teaches and yet be lost for want of good works or
because he has not the love of God; consequently, faith alone does not justify or insure eternal
salvation. There is, for example, the fear of divine justice. Cfr. Ecclus. I, 28: “He that
is without fear cannot be justified.”(819) Also, hope in God’s mercy. Cfr. Rom. VIII, 24: “For
we are saved by hope.”(820) Again, charity. Cfr. Luke VII, 47: “Many sins are forgiven her
because she hath loved much.”(821) Furthermore, contrition or penitence. Cfr. Luke XIII, 3:
“Unless you shall do penance, you shall all likewise perish.”(822) Finally, good works in general.
Cfr. St. James II, 17: “So faith also, if it have not works, is dead in itself.”(823) No one
who ponders these and similar texts can maintain, as Calvin and Melanchthon did, that the good
works mentioned merely accompany justification, for they are unmistakably described as causes
which dispose and prepare the sinner for it.

(3) It is not faith alone that justifies, but faith informed and actuated by charity. Cfr.
Gal. Cfr. III, 28: “For we account a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the
law,”(826) Luther deliberately inserted the word “alone.” The context shows that this is a
falsification. The Apostle contrasts justifying faith, not with those preparatory acts of salvation
which spring from it, but with the sterile “works of the law” (i.e. the Old Testament), which,
as such, possessed no more power to justify than the good works of the heathen. Keeping this
contrast in mind, it would not be incorrect to say, and St. Paul might well have said, that
“supernatural faith alone (i.e. only) justifies, while the works of the law do not.” But if
faith be taken in contradistinction to the other acts operative in the process of justification,
such as fear, hope, contrition, love,—and this is the sense in which Luther takes it,—then
it is false and contrary to the mind of St. Paul to say: “Faith alone justifies, nothing else
is required.” For in this sense faith is merely the beginning, the foundation, the root of
justification and cannot justify the sinner until it has absorbed the other preparatory acts
required by Holy Scripture and transformed them into perfect love. This fact was already pointed
out by St. Augustine. “Unintelligent persons,” he says, “with regard to the Apostle’s statement:
‘We conclude that a man is justified by faith without the works of the law,’ have thought him
to mean that faith is sufficient for a man, even if he leads a bad life and has no good deeds
to allege. It is impossible that such a character should be deemed ‘a vessel of election’ by
the Apostle, who, after declaring that ‘in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything
nor uncircumcision,’ adds the important remark: ‘but faith that worketh by charity.’ It is
such faith which separates the faithful children of God from unclean devils,—for even these
‘believe and tremble,’ as the Apostle James says, but they do no good works. Therefore they
possess not the faith by which the just man lives,—the faith which operates through love in
such wise that God recompenses it according to its works with eternal life.”(827)

There is another sense in which faith alone may be said to justify, viz.: if the term be taken
to include all those things which God has ordained for our salvation, that is to say, the sum-total
of “revelation” or “the true religion” as opposed to “heresy.” The term πίστις (fides) is sometimes
employed in this sense by the Fathers, but never in Sacred Scripture.(828)

b) There is a unanimous and unbroken tradition in favor of the Catholic doctrine. St. Polycarp
writes in his Epistle to the Philippians: “... the faith (πίστις) given you, which is the mother
of us all when hope (ἐλπίς) follows and love (ἀγάπη) goes before.”(829) St. Augustine teaches
that while faith is per se separable from hope and love, it is ineffective without them. “Man
begins with faith, but the demons, too, believe and tremble; to faith, therefore, must be added
hope, and to hope, love.”(830) And again: “Without love, faith can indeed exist, but it availeth
nothing.”(831) St. Gregory the Great, paraphrasing St. James, says: “Perhaps some one will
say to himself: I have believed, I shall be saved. He speaks truly if he sustains faith by
works. For that is true faith which does not contradict by deeds what it asserts in words.”(832)

c) This teaching is in perfect conformity with reason.

α) No supernatural enlightenment is needed to perceive the intrinsic propriety of a moral preparation
for justification. Not only must the sinner learn to know God as His supernatural end and the
source of all righteousness, but he must also be persuaded that it is his duty, with the help
of sufficient grace, to direct his will towards this final end.

Every tendency or movement presupposes a terminus a quo, from which it starts, and a terminus
ad quem, to which it tends. The movement of the will in the process of justification, besides
faith, demands a voluntary withdrawal from sin (contrition, good resolutions) and an approach
to righteousness (hope, love, desire).(833)

This argument would have made no impression on Luther, since he bluntly denied free-will in
the moral order and regarded human nature as so radically depraved by original sin as to be
incapable of coöperating with divine grace. In fact he compared man to a “log, stick or stone.”
This view was shared by Amsdorf, Flacius, and others, whereas Osiander and Butzer admitted
that “inherent righteousness” is at least a partial factor in justification. Melanchthon, in
an endeavor to reconcile the contradictions of this discordant system, unwittingly gave rise
to the so-called Synergist dispute. When Pfeffinger(834) undertook the defence of free-will,
many Lutheran theologians, especially of the University of Jena, boldly attacked the log-stick-and-stone
theory(835) and tried to force their adversaries to admit that man is able to coöperate with
grace. The “Half-Melanchthonians,” as they were called, succeeded in smuggling Synergism into
the “Book of Torgau;”(836) but before the “Formulary of Concord” was finally printed in the
monastery of Bergen, near Magdeburg (A. D. 1577), the strict Lutherans had eliminated that
article as heterodox and substituted for it the log-stick-and-stone theory as it appears in
the official symbols of the Lutheran Church. In the Syncretist dispute, and through the efforts
of the Pietists, this harsh teaching was afterwards moderated. But what probably contributed
most to the crumbling of the system was the rapid growth of Socinianism and Rationalism among
the Lutherans in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. To-day, with the exception of a
small band of “orthodox” Lutherans in Saxony and the United States, Protestants no longer hold
the log-stick-and-stone theory. The school of Luther proclaimed it as the distinguishing tenet
of Protestantism, as “the criterion of a standing or falling church,”(837)—and by this criterion
the Lutheran Church has indeed fallen. Common sense has led modern Protestants to admit that
contrition and penance are quite as necessary for justification as faith, an opinion which,
in the words of Dorner,(838) “comes dangerously near the Catholic system.” In Scandinavia,
according to Dr. Krogh-Tonning,(839) the Lutheran Church has experienced a “quiet reformation”
and now unconsciously defends the Catholic doctrine of justification.(840)

β) As the sufficiency of the Bible without Tradition is the formal principle of “orthodox”
Protestantism, so justification by faith alone may be said to be its material principle. The
absurdity of the Lutheran position is evident from the fact that these two principles are mutually
destructive. So far from teaching justification by faith alone, the Bible inculcates the exact
contrary, while its sufficiency as the source of faith could be proved from its own pages,
if at all, only by a vicious circle.(841) Thus the whole Protestant system is based on contradiction.

The sola fides theory is open to serious objection also from the ethical point of view. It
cannot be put into practice without grave danger. “Sin lustily,” writes Luther, “but be yet
more lusty in faith.”(842) The first part at least of this injunction was promptly obeyed by
his followers, and the rapid deterioration of morals which followed was but a natural sequel
of the sola fides theory. If faith alone were sufficient for justification, it would make no
difference what kind of life a man led, for unbelief, i.e. the loss of fiduciary faith, would
be the only sin. No wonder this ethical antinomism of the Lutheran system, so radically opposed
to the teaching of St. James, was rejected by Hugo Grotius, George Buller, and other honest
Protestants.

Another weighty objection against the Lutheran theory of justification is that it disregards
the law of causation. According to Luther a man is justified by the firm belief and trust that
his sins are forgiven. This “belief” is either true or false. If it is false, I can have no
certainty with regard to my salvation, but am deceiving myself. If true, it presupposes that
which it is to effect, in other words, it puts the cause before the effect. An orthodox Lutheran
theologian of the old school would probably retort: My sins are actually forgiven by virtue
of the atonement, because all men without exception are redeemed through the merits of Jesus
Christ. If this be true, then why not be consistent and say: All men are justified because
all are redeemed, consequently there is no need of faith and sacraments, and keeping the commandments
is a matter of indifference! It is at this point that the incompatibility of Luther’s teaching
with the Bible and sound ethics becomes most glaringly apparent. True, Luther himself at times
emphasized the necessity of good works; but this merely proves that he had lucid intervals
when his honest nature rebelled against the inconsistency of his teaching.(843)

3. EXPLANATION OF THE CATHOLIC DOCTRINE.—The Council of Trent assigned to faith its proper
place in the process of justification,(844) and gave a luminous and profound analysis of the
process itself.(845) Scholastic theology, in elaborating the teaching of Scripture and Tradition,
drew a distinction between fides formata, which truly justifies, and fides informis, which
falls short of justification.

a) As regards the intrinsic relation of (dogmatic) faith to other preparatory acts in the process
of justification, the Tridentine Council declares: “Faith is the beginning of human salvation,
the foundation and the root of all justification.”(846) Supernatural faith, therefore, is the
beginning of salvation, and not, as Harnack makes Luther say, “at once the beginning, the middle,
and the end,” because no man can be converted unless he has believingly embraced God as his
final goal. This faith is preceded by certain preliminary conditions, of which the first is
an illumination of the intellect and a strengthening of the will, which results in the affectus
credulitatis (initia fidei). For justifying faith does not flash forth suddenly, like a deus
ex machina, but requires time for its development, as the history of many conversions proves.(847)

Faith is called the “foundation” of justification because it not only marks its beginning,
but constitutes the basis upon which all subsequent stages of the process rest. To exclude
the mistaken notion that the process of justification is a series of mechanical and disconnected
acts, the Council calls faith the “root” of justification, from which the other preparatory
acts spring organically, as the trunk of a tree from its root. If, on the other hand, the sinner’s
sorrow is imperfect (attritio), he attains justification only by actual reception of the Sacrament
(Baptism or Penance).(853)

b) Does conversion always follow this conciliary schema? No. The Council did not mean to define
that these acts must follow one another in strict sequence or that they are one and all absolutely
indispensable for justification. It is certain, however, that the process invariably begins
with faith and ends with contrition accompanied by a firm purpose of amendment. In exceptional
cases (e.g. the Prodigal Son, Mary Magdalen) perfect charity seems immediately to follow faith,
and may then be said virtually to include the intermediate stages of fear, hope, and contrition.
Yet this is not the usual way. Ordinarily faith elicits fear, which in turn produces two kinds
of hope—hope of forgiveness (spes veniae) and hope in God (spes theologica), which marks the
beginning of charity (amor concupiscentiae). Contrition is always a conditio sine qua non,
because there can be no forgiveness of sin without sorrow for it.(854) It is for this reason
that, according to St. Thomas, explicit contrition for mortal sins is necessary for justification
even when there is perfect charity, and the sufficiency of the so-called poenitentia virtualis
is limited to venial offenses and such grievous sins as cannot be remembered.(855) Fear, while
not absolutely indispensable, is seldom absent. Holy Scripture tells us that “the fear of God
is the beginning of wisdom,” and it is natural for the sinner seeking forgiveness to detest
his sins out of fear of divine justice before he attains to the motive of perfect charity.(856)

c) Certain utterances of Scripture and the Fathers with regard to the possibility of a “dead”
faith(857) have led theologians to distinguish between fides informis and fides formata. Fides
informis is a dead faith, devoid of charity, and without justifying power. The only faith that
can justify a man is that which is animated by charity and productive of good works.(858) This
is the fides formata of the Schoolmen, which includes all the preparatory acts enumerated by
the Tridentine Council, from fear to perfect charity. These acts, however, though united in
the fides formata, retain their respective independence, and can disappear singly, one after
another, as they came. Zwingli’s assertion that faith, hope, and charity are identical, or
at least inseparable, has been expressly condemned by the Tridentine Council: “If any one saith
that, grace being lost through sin, faith also is always lost with it; or that the faith which
remains, though it be no live faith, is not a true faith; or that he who has faith without
charity is not a Christian; let him be anathema.”(859)

    READINGS:—Besides the respective chapters in the various
    text-books, the student may consult: *A. Vega, De Iustificatione
    Doctrina Universa Libris XV Absolute Tradita, Venice 1548
    (reprinted at Cologne, 1572).—*Bellarmine, De Iustificatione
    Impii, 1. V (ed. Fèvre, Vol. VI, pp. 149 sqq. Paris
    1873).—*Suarez, De Gratia, 1. VI sqq.—Becanus, Theol.
    Scholast., “De Gratia Habituali,” Rouen 1658.—L. Nussbaum, Die
    Lehre der kath. Glaubens, Mainz 1867.—Oswald, Die
    Lehre von der Heiligung, § 5, 3rd ed., Paderborn 1885.—B.
    Bartmann, St. Paulus und St. Jakobus und die Rechtfertigung,
    Freiburg 1897.—L. Galey, La Foi et les Oeuvres, Montauban
    1902.—W. Liese, Der heilsnotwendige Glaube, sein Begriff und
    Inhalt, Freiburg 1902.—Card. Newman, Lectures on the Doctrine of
    Justification, 8th impression, London 1900.—Hugh Pope, O. P.,
    art. “Faith” in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. V.—J. Mausbach,
    Catholic Moral Teaching and its Antagonists (tr. by A. M.
    Buchanan), pp. 150 sqq., New York 1914.—L. Labauche, S. S., God
    and Man, pp. 203 sqq., N. Y. 1916.

    On the teaching of the Reformers cfr. *Möhler, Symbolik, § 18
    sqq., 11th ed., Mainz 1890 (English tr. by James Burton Robertson,
    pp. 82 sqq., 5th ed., London 1906); Ad. Harnack, Lehrbuch der
    Dogmengeschichte, Vol. III, 4th ed., Freiburg 1910;
    Denifle-Weiss, O. P., Luther und Luthertum in der ersten
    Entwicklung, Vol. II, Mainz 1909; H. Grisar, S. J., Luther,
    Vol. I, Freiburg 1911 (English tr., Vols. I and II, London 1913).

Chapter II. The State Of Justification

Though the term “justification” may be extended to the preparatory acts that lead up to the
state of justice, strictly speaking it signifies only that decisive moment in which the sinner
is cleansed from mortal sin by an infusion of sanctifying grace. Hence a careful distinction
must be made between justification as an act (actus iustificationis) and justification as an
habitual state (habitus iustificationis s. status gratiae sanctificantis). The transient act
introduces a permanent state, just as the Sacrament of Holy Orders constitutes a man in the
sacerdotal state or priesthood.

Both as an act and as a state justification possesses three distinct properties; it is uncertain,
unequal, and capable of being lost.

This gives us the basis for a division of the present Chapter into three Sections: (1) On the
Nature of Justification, (2) On Justifying, i.e. Sanctifying Grace, and (3) On the Properties
of that Grace.

Section 1. The Nature Of Justification

Justification in the active sense (iustificatio, δικαίωσις) is defined by the Tridentine Council
as “a translation from that state wherein man is born a child of the first Adam, to the state
of grace and of the adoption of the sons of God through the second Adam, Jesus Christ, our
Saviour.”(860)

Justification, therefore, has both a negative and a positive element. The positive element
is interior sanctification through the merits of Jesus Christ. The negative element consists
in the forgiveness of sin. Though these elements are objectively inseparable, the forgiveness
of sin being practically an effect of interior sanctification, yet we must treat them separately
in order to be able to refute more effectively the Lutheran heresy that sin is not wiped out
but merely “covered,” and that justification consists in an external “imputation” of the righteousness
of Christ.

Article 1. The Negative Element Of Justification

1. THE HERESY OF THE PROTESTANT REFORMERS AND THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH.—Luther held that
human nature was radically depraved by original sin(861) and that justification consists in
this, that sin (original and mortal) is no longer “imputed” to the sinner; that is to say,
it is not blotted out but merely “covered” by the merits of Christ.

a) Forgiveness of sins, therefore, according to Luther, consists simply in their being no longer
imputed.(862) This heresy was incorporated in the Formula of Concord and other symbolical books
of the Lutheran Church,(863) and subsequently adopted by Calvin.(864)

b) The Catholic Church has always maintained that justification is a renewal of the soul by
which a man’s sins are blotted out and he becomes truly just. This applies first of all to
original sin. “If,” says the Council of Trent, “anyone denies that by the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ, which is conferred in Baptism, the guilt of original sin is remitted, or even
asserts that the whole of that which has the true and proper nature of sin is not taken away,
but says that it is only raised or not imputed, let him be anathema.”(865) What it here defines
in regard to original sin, the Council elsewhere reaffirms in respect of mortal sin.(866)

2. REFUTATION OF THE LUTHERAN THEORY.—The theory thus solemnly condemned by the Tridentine
Fathers is unscriptural and opposed to Catholic Tradition.

a) The teaching of the Bible on this point may be reduced to four distinct heads.

(1) The remission of sin granted in the process of justification is a real annihilation of
guilt; that is to say, the sins remitted cease to exist in the moral (though not, of course,
in the historical) order. Cfr. Ps. XLIII, 25: “I am he that blot out thy iniquities.”(868)
After God has blotted out a sin, it no longer exists. Cfr. Is. XLIV, 22: “I have blotted out
thy iniquities as a cloud, and thy sins as a mist.”(869) Acts III, 19: “Be penitent, therefore,
and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out.”(870) Elsewhere God is said to “take away”
sin. Cfr. 2 Kings XII, 13: “The Lord also hath taken away thy sin.”(871) 1 Paral. XXI, 8: “I
beseech thee, take away the iniquity of thy servant.”(872) When He takes away sin, it is really
and truly blotted out. Cfr. Mich. VII, 18 sq.: “Who is a God like to thee, who takest away
iniquity?... He will put away our iniquities, and he will cast all our sins into the bottom
of the sea.”(873) Ps. X, 15: “His sin shall be sought, and shall not be found.”(874) Ps. CII,
12: “As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our iniquities from us.”(875)
Consequently, when our Divine Saviour said of Mary Magdalen: “Many sins are forgiven her,”(876)
He meant that her sins were completely blotted out and taken away.

(2) Justification washes the soul from iniquity and purifies the heart. Cfr. Ps. L, 4: “Wash
me yet more from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.”(877) Is. I, 16: “Wash yourselves,
be clean.”(878) After one’s sins are washed away, the heart is clean and pure. Cfr. Ez. XXXVI,
25 sq.: “And I will pour upon you clean water, and you shall be cleansed from all your filthiness,
... and I will give you a new heart.”(879) 1 Cor. VI, 11: “And such [fornicators, etc.] some
of you were; but you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are justified.”(880) Spotless
purity takes the place of the impurity that previously defiled the soul of the sinner. Cfr.
Ps. L, 9: “Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed: thou shalt wash me,
and I shall be made whiter than snow.”(881) Is. Apoc. I, 5: “... Jesus Christ, ... hath loved
us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood.”(883) 1 John I, 7: “... the blood of Jesus
Christ ... cleanseth us from all sin.”(884)

(3) Justification is an awakening of the sinner from death to life, a transition from darkness
to light. Cfr. V, 8: “For you were heretofore darkness, but now light in the Lord.”(887)

(4) Baptism, in particular, completely removes all guilt. Cfr. Acts XXII, 16: “Rise up, and
be baptized, and wash away thy sins.”(888) Hence, though concupiscence remains, the soul has
no longer in it anything damnable, i.e. any trace of original or mortal sin. Cfr. Rom. VIII,
1: “There is now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus.”(889)

It requires no special acuteness to perceive that this Biblical teaching is irreconcilably
opposed to the Protestant theory of non-imputation. If, as the Lutherans allege, God merely
declared the believer just, justification would not blot out or take away sin, nor could it
be truthfully said that light and life take the place of death and darkness; something deserving
of condemnation would still remain in those that are in Christ Jesus.(890)

There are a few Scriptural texts that seem to favor the Lutheran view, but they must be interpreted
in conformity with the general teaching of the Bible as outlined above. Among these texts is
Ps. VII, 17: “Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.”(893) This
passage clearly refers to concupiscence, which remains in the sinner after justification, but,
according to Rom. VIII, 1 and James I, 14 sq., is not truly and properly sin but merely called
“sin”(894) by metonymy, “because,” in the words of the Tridentine Council, “it is of sin and
inclines to sin.”(895)

b) The Fathers of the Church, both Greek and Latin, unanimously teach that justification effects
the forgiveness of sins.

St. Justin Martyr says: “By doing penance, all who desire it can obtain mercy from God, and
Scripture calls them blessed in saying: ‘Blessed is he to whom God hath not imputed sin,’ which
means that he receives forgiveness of his sins from God, not as you, deceiving yourselves,
and others like you aver, that God does not impute [their] sin to them, though they are [still]
sinners.”(896) Clement of Alexandria likens Baptism to “a bath in which sins are washed off.”(897)
St. Gregory Nazianzen says: “It is called Baptism [βαπτισμός, from βάπτειν, to immerse] because
the sin is buried in water, ... and a bath (λουτρόν), because it washes off.”(898) St. Augustine
indignantly opposes the erroneous opinion of the Pelagians that Baptism does not take away
sins but merely “trims them off.” “Who but an unbeliever,” he exclaims, “can affirm this against
the Pelagians? We say, therefore, that Baptism gives remission of all sins and takes away crimes,
not merely trims them off (radere) in such wise that the roots of all sins may be preserved
in an evil flesh, as of hair trimmed on the head, when the sins cut down may grow again.”(899)
Pope St. Gregory the Great seems almost to have foreseen the heresy of the Protestant Reformers,
for he says: “But if there are any who say that in Baptism sins are forgiven as to outward
appearance only, what can be more un-Catholic than such preaching?... He who says that sins
are not completely forgiven in Baptism might as well say that the Egyptians did not perish
in the Red Sea. But if he admits that the Egyptians actually died [in the Red Sea], let him
also admit that of necessity sins completely die in Baptism.”(900)

c) The theological argument may be briefly formulated as follows: We can imagine but two reasons
why God should not truly forgive us our sins in the process of justification: inability and
unwillingness. To say that He is unable to forgive us our sins would be to assert that the
remission of sin involves a metaphysical impossibility. This no Protestant will admit, because
all believe that “nothing defiled shall enter into heaven.”(901) To assert that God is unwilling
to forgive our sins would be to contradict the plain teaching of Scripture, as set forth above.
Consequently there is no reason whatever for assuming that God does not truly forgive us our
sins in the process of justification. Furthermore, it would be incompatible with His veracity
and holiness to assume that He merely declares the sinner to be “free from sin,” without actually
cleansing his soul. It would be a contradiction to assert that a man whom the truthful and
all-holy God has declared free from sin, remains steeped in iniquity. Cfr. Prov. XVII, 15:
“He that justifieth the wicked [i.e. absolves him from his sins], and he that condemneth the
just, both are abominable before God.”

According to Revelation the justification of the sinner is not a mere change, with a privation
for its terminus a quo(902) and an indifferent form for its terminus ad quem, but involves
a movement from extreme to extreme, and hence the genesis of the one extreme must coincide
with the destruction of the other. Sin, being in contrary opposition to righteousness, must
depart when righteousness enters the soul.(903)

Article 2. The Positive Element Of Justification

1. HERETICAL ERRORS AND THE CHURCH.—Calvin held that justification consists essentially and
exclusively in the remission of sins.(904) The other “Reformers” maintained that there must
also be a positive element in the process, but differed in determining its nature.

a) The ambiguous language employed by Luther and Melanchthon gave rise to many different opinions,
which agreed only in one point, that is, in holding, contrary to Catholic teaching, that the
positive element of justification is not inward sanctification or inherent righteousness (i.e.
sanctifying grace). Probably the view most common among the supporters of the Augsburg Confession
was that the sinner, by a “fiduciary apprehension” of God’s mercy, as proclaimed in the Gospel,
“apprehends” the extrinsic justice of Christ, and with it covers his sins, which are thereupon
no longer “imputed” to him. In other words, he is outwardly accounted and declared righteous
in the sight of God, though inwardly he remains a sinner. With the exception of “sola fides”
there was probably no shibboleth in the sixteenth century so persistently dinned into the ears
of Catholics and Protestants alike as “iustitia Christi extra nos.” It is found in the Apologia
written in defence of the Augsburg Confession(905) and recurs in the Formula of Concord.(906)
According to the “orthodox” Lutheran view, therefore, justification on its positive side is
a purely forensic and outward imputation of the righteousness of Christ, which the sinner seizes
with the arm of faith and puts on like a cloak to hide the wounds of his soul.(907)

b) Against this dismal heresy the Tridentine Council solemnly declared that “Justification
... is not remission of sins merely, but also the sanctification and renewal of the inward
man through the voluntary reception of the grace and of the gifts,”(908) and anathematized
all those who say that “men are justified either by the sole imputation of the justice of Christ
or by the sole remission of sins, to the exclusion of the grace and the charity which is poured
forth in their hearts by the Holy Ghost and is inherent in them, or even that the grace whereby
we are justified is only the favor of God.”(909)

In thus defining the doctrine of the Church, the Council did not, however, mean to deny that
the sinner is in a true sense “justified by the justice of Christ,”—in so far namely, as our
Lord has merited for us the grace of justification. He merely wished to emphasize the fact
that a sinner is not formaliter justified by the imputation of Christ’s justice. For the sake
of greater clearness the various “causes” of justification are enumerated as follows: “Of this
justification the causes are these: the final cause indeed is the glory of God and of Jesus
Christ, and life everlasting; while the efficient cause is a merciful God, who washes and sanctifies
gratuitously; ... but the meritorious cause is His most beloved only-begotten Son, our Lord
Jesus Christ, who ... merited justification for us by His most holy Passion on the wood of
the Cross; ... the instrumental cause is the Sacrament of Baptism, which is the sacrament of
faith, without which no man was ever justified; lastly, the sole formal cause is the justice
of God, not that whereby He Himself is just, but that whereby He maketh us just, that, to wit,
with which we being endowed are renewed in the spirit of our mind, and are not only reputed,
but are truly called, and are, just.”(910)

So important did the distinction between the causa meritoria and the causa formalis of justification
appear to the Fathers of Trent, that they made it the subject of a separate canon, to wit:
“If anyone saith that men are just without the justice of Christ, whereby He merited for us
to be justified; or that it is by that justice itself that they are formally just; let him
be anathema.”(911) Justification in the Catholic sense, therefore, is not a mere outward imputation
of the justice of Christ, but a true inward renewal and sanctification wrought by a grace intrinsically
inhering in the soul. This grace theologians call the “grace of justification.”

2. REFUTATION OF THE LUTHERAN THEORY OF IMPUTATION.—Nothing is so foreign to both the spirit
and the letter of Holy Scripture as the idea that justification merely covers a man’s sins
with a cloak of justice and leaves him unsanctified within.

Justification is described in the Bible not only as a remission of sins,(912) but likewise
as the beginning of a new life,(913) a renewal of the spirit,(914) a new creation,(915) a regeneration,(916)
a supernatural likeness of God,(917) etc. All these similes point to a permanent state of sanctity
in the soul of the just.

α) The Lutheran theory of imputation can be most effectively refuted by an analysis of the
Scriptural term “regeneration” (regeneratio, ἀναγέννησις, παλιγγενεσία). “Unless a man be born
again of water and the Holy Ghost,” says our Divine Lord, “he cannot enter into the kingdom
of God.”(918) This spiritual rebirth wipes out sin and inwardly sanctifies the soul. The regenerate
sinner receives a new and godlike nature. That this nature can be conceived in no other way
than as a state of sanctity and justice appears clearly from Tit. Regeneration consists in
the remission of sin through Baptism, and also, more particularly, in man being made like God,
i.e. becoming a child of God,(920) while “renovation” means “putting off the old man”(921)
and “putting on the new.”(922) The “outpouring of the Holy Ghost” effected by Baptism is not,
of course, an outpouring of the Hypostasis of the Third Person of the Trinity, but of created
grace, which re-forms the sinner and makes him just.(923) This justifying grace must not be
conceived as an actual grace, much less as a series of actual graces, for it is not given us
merely as an aid in the performance of some particular act, but as a new nature. Regeneration
and renovation denote a state of being, as we can plainly see in the case of baptized infants.
It is for this reason that the Apostle speaks of it as a lasting state;—that which theologians
call the status gratiae sanctificantis.(924)

Closely akin to the notion of “regeneration” is that of “re-creation.” Justification renews
the sinner inwardly and makes of him, so to speak, a new creature, which has sloughed off sin
and become just and holy in the sight of God. Cfr. 2 Cor. V, 17: “If then any be in Christ
a new creature, the old things are passed away, behold all things are made new.”(925) This
is all the more true since re-creation effects an “incorporation of man with Christ,” and is
closely connected with “regeneration of God.” Cfr. James I, 18: “For of his own will hath he
begotten us by the word of truth, that we might be some beginning of his creature.”(926) A
comparison with Gal. VI, 15 and Gal. V, 6 fully establishes it as a Biblical truth that in
the process of justification the sinner, through faith informed by charity, is changed into
a new creature. V, 23: “Who justify the wicked for gifts.” This proves nothing against the
Catholic doctrine, which is based entirely on texts that exclude the judicial meaning of the
term and plainly refer to inward sanctification.(931)

The word “justification” also occurs in two other meanings in the Bible. Ps. CXVIII, 8 and
26 it stands in the plural for the “law”: “I will keep thy justifications;”(932) and “Teach
me thy justifications.”(933) Apoc. XXII, 11 and in a few other passages it signifies “growth”
in interior holiness, which theologians call iustificatio secunda.(934)

The Lutherans are equally unfortunate in maintaining that St. Paul countenances their theory
when he speaks of “putting on Christ.” Cfr. Gal. III, 27: “For as many of you as have been
baptized in Christ, have put on Christ.”(935) The Apostle in employing this simile does not
mean to say that justification consists in putting on an outward cloak of grace to cover sins
which inwardly endure, but precisely the contrary, viz.: that the sinner by being justified
is inwardly cleansed from sin and becomes a new creature and a child of God. This interpretation
is supported by various parallel texts(936) and by the staple of St. Paul’s teaching.

Another passage which the Lutherans cite in their favor is 1 Cor. I, 30: “... who [Christ Jesus]
of God is made unto us wisdom, and justice, and sanctification, and redemption.”(937) Christ
is made unto us justice and sanctification, in what sense? Manifestly in the same sense in
which He is made unto us wisdom of God, that is to say, in so far as He imparts to us wisdom,
which thereupon becomes our own, but not in the sense that the wisdom of Christ is outwardly
imputed to us. Note that St. Paul in this and many other passages of his Epistles merely wishes
to emphasize the gratuity of the Redemption and of grace to the exclusion of all natural merit
on the part of man.(938)

b) As regards the teaching of the Fathers, the “Reformers” themselves admitted that it was
against them.(939)

We read in the Epistle of Barnabas, which was probably composed about A. D. 100:(940) “Since
then He made us new by the remission of sins, he made us another type, that we should have
the soul of children, as though He were creating us afresh.”

The reason why St. Paul calls Baptism the “laver of regeneration” rather than the laver of
forgiveness, is explained by St. John Chrysostom(941) as follows: “Because it [Baptism] not
only remits our sins and wipes out our misdeeds, but accomplishes all this in such a way as
if we were born anew;(942) for it entirely re-creates and re-forms us.”(943)

St. Ambrose regards innocence as the positive element of justification: “After this [i.e. Baptism]
you received a white robe, to indicate that you stripped off the vesture of sin and put on
the chaste garments of innocence.”(944)

Harnack claims that St. Augustine first stemmed the current dogmatic tradition and reshaped
it by going back to St. Paul. Bellarmine(945) refuted this audacious assertion long before
it was rehashed by the German rationalist. The Council of Trent was so thoroughly imbued with
the teaching of Augustine that its decrees and canons on justification read as though they
were lifted bodily from his writings. The great “Doctor of Grace” flatly contradicts the Protestant
theory of imputation in such utterances as these: “He [St. Paul] does not say, ‘the righteousness
of man,’ ... but ‘the righteousness of God,’—meaning not that whereby He is Himself righteous,
but that with which He endows man when He justifies the ungodly.... The righteousness of God
is by faith of Jesus Christ, that is, by the faith wherewith one believes in Christ. For here
is not meant the faith with which Christ Himself believes, just as there was not meant the
righteousness whereby God is Himself righteous. Both no doubt are ours; but yet they are called
[in one case] God’s, and [in the other] Christ’s, because it is by their bounty that these
gifts are bestowed upon man.”(946) Again: “When righteousness is given to us, it is not called
our own righteousness, but God’s, because it becomes ours only so that we have it from God.”(947)
Again: “The grace of God is called the righteousness of God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
not that by which the Lord is just, but that by which He justifies those whom from unrighteous
He makes righteous.”(948) Again: “The love of God is said to be shed abroad in our hearts,
not because He loves us, but because He makes us lovers of Himself; just as the righteousness
of God is used in the sense of our being made righteous by His gift.”(949) According to St.
Augustine, therefore, justification culminates in a true sanctification of the soul. “When
he [St. Paul] says: ‘We are transformed into the same image,’ he assuredly means to speak of
the image of God; and by calling it ‘the same,’ he means that very image which we see in the
glass,... and that we pass from a form that is obscure to a form that is bright,... and this
[human] nature, being the most excellent among things created, is changed from a form that
is defaced into a form that is beautiful, when it is justified by its Creator from ungodliness.”(950)

The Augustinian passages which we have quoted (and they are not by any means all that could
be quoted) enumerate the distinguishing marks of sanctifying grace in so far as it is the formal
cause of justification.(951)

c) The argument from Revelation can be reinforced by certain philosophical considerations which
show the absurdity of the imputation theory from the standpoint of common sense.

A man outwardly justified but inwardly a sinner would be a moral monster, and Almighty God
would be guilty of an intrinsic contradiction were He to regard and treat such a one as just.
This contradiction is not removed but rather intensified by the Lutheran appeal to the extraneous
justice of Christ.(952)

The incongruity of the Lutheran doctrine of justification becomes fully apparent from the consequences
which it involves, to wit: (1) all Christians without distinction would possess exactly the
same degree of sanctity and justice; (2) justification once obtained by fiduciary faith could
not be lost except by the sin of unbelief; and (3) children would not be justified by Baptism
because they are not sufficiently advanced in the use of reason to enable them to “apprehend”
the external righteousness of Christ. The first of these inferences runs counter to common
sense and experience. The second, which Luther clothed in the shameful exhortation, “Pecca
fortiter et crede fortius et nihil nocebunt centum homicidia et mille stupra,”(953) is repugnant
to the teaching of Scripture and destructive of morality.(954) The third consistently led to
the rejection of infant baptism by the Anabaptists, the Mennonites, and other Protestant sects.

3. SANCTIFYING GRACE THE SOLE FORMAL CAUSE OF JUSTIFICATION.—In declaring that “inherent grace”
is the “sole formal cause of justification,” the Council of Trent(955) defined it as an article
of faith that sanctifying grace of itself is able to produce all the formal effects of justification,
e.g. forgiveness of sins, the sanctification of the sinner, his adoption by God, etc.,(956)
and consequently requires no supplementary or contributory causes. In other words, justification
is wholly and fully accomplished by the infusion of sanctifying grace.

a) It appears from the discussions preceding its sixth session that the Tridentine Council
not only meant to condemn the heretical contention of Butzer that “inherent grace” must be
supplemented by the “imputed justice of Christ” as the really essential factor of justification,(957)
but also wished to reject the view of divers contemporary Catholic theologians(958) that “intrinsic
righteousness” is inadequate to effect justification without a special favor Dei externus.(959)
In this the Fathers of the Council were on Scriptural ground. The principal effects of justification,—forgiveness
of sins and internal sanctification,—are both produced by sanctifying grace. Sacred Scripture
is perfectly clear on this point. It represents sin as opposed to grace in the same way in
which darkness is opposed to light,(960) life to death,(961) the new man to the old.(962) The
one necessarily excludes the other. Sanctifying grace and sin cannot co-exist in the same subject.

Internal sanctification may be defined as a permanent, vital union with God, by which the soul
becomes righteous and holy in His sight and obtains a claim to Heaven. That this is also a
function of sanctifying grace appears from those Scriptural texts which treat of the positive
element of justification.(963) With this doctrine Tradition is in perfect accord, and consequently
the Fathers of Trent were right in teaching as they did, in fact they could not have taught
otherwise.(964)

b) While all Catholic theologians admit the incompatibility of grace and sin in the same subject,
they differ as to the kind and degree of opposition existing between the two. Some hold that
this opposition is purely moral, others that it is physical, again others that it is metaphysical.

α) Nominalists(965) and Scotists(966) before the Tridentine decision maintained that the distinction
between sanctifying grace and (original or mortal) sin is based on a free decree of the Almighty,
and therefore purely moral. God, they held, by a favor externus superadditus, externally supplies
what sanctifying grace internally lacks, just as a government’s stamp raises the value of a
coin beyond the intrinsic worth of the bullion. Followed to its legitimate conclusions, this
shallow theory means that sanctifying grace is of itself insufficient to wipe out sin, and
that, but for the superadded divine favor, grace and sin might co-exist in the soul. This is
tantamount to saying that justification requires a twofold formal cause, viz.: sanctifying
grace and a favor Dei superadditus,—which runs counter to the teaching of Trent. Henno tries
to escape this objection by explaining that the favor Dei acceptans appertains not to the formal
but merely to the efficient cause of justification. But this contention is manifestly untenable.
Sanctifying grace is either able to wipe out sin, or it is unable: if it is unable to produce
this effect, the favor Dei acceptans must be part of the causa formalis of justification, and
then, in Henno’s hypothesis, we should have a duplex causa formalis, which contradicts the
Tridentine decree. If, on the other hand, sanctifying grace is able to wipe out sin without
any favor superadditus, then the Scotistic theory has no raison d’être.

β) From what we have said it follows that there must be at least a physical contrariety between
grace and sin. The difference between physical and metaphysical opposition may be illustrated
by the example of fire and water. These two elements are incompatible by a law of nature. But
as there is no metaphysical contradiction between them, Almighty God could conceivably bring
them together. It is this physical kind of opposition that Suarez and a few of his followers
assume to exist between grace and sin. Absolutely speaking, they say, there is no intrinsic
contradiction in the assumption that God could preserve the physical entity of sanctifying
grace in a soul guilty of mortal sin.(967) In so far as this school admits the existence of
an internal opposition, which actually prevents original or mortal sin from ever co-existing
in the soul with justifying grace, its teaching may be said to be acceptable to all Catholic
theologians. The Scotistic view, on account of its incompatibility with the teaching of the
Tridentine Council, is no longer held.

It may be questioned, however, whether Suarez goes far enough in this matter, and whether the
opposition between grace and sin could really be overcome by a miracle. The simultaneous co-existence
of grace and sin seems to involve an absolute, i.e. metaphysical, contradiction.

γ) This is what the Thomists maintain with the majority of Jesuit theologians.(968) As some
subtle objections have been raised against this view, it cannot be accepted as theologically
certain; but it undoubtedly corresponds better than its opposite to the spirit and letter of
Scripture. The Bible, as we have already pointed out, likens the opposition existing between
grace and sin to that between life and death,(969) justice and injustice, Christ and Belial,
God and an idol.(970) But these are contradictories, ergo.(971) The same conclusion can be
reached by arguing from the character of sanctifying grace as a participatio divinae naturae.(972)
If grace is a participation in the divine nature, it must be opposed to sin in the same way
in which God Himself is opposed to it. Now God as the All-Holy One is metaphysically opposed
to sin; consequently, the same kind of opposition must exist between sanctifying grace and sin.

It is alleged against this teaching that between habitual grace and habitual sin there is merely
a disparate opposition, i.e. that of a physical to a moral form, the concepts of which are
not mutually exclusive. But sanctifying grace is more than a physical ornament of the soul;
it is an ethical form which has for its essential function to render the soul holy and righteous
in the sight of God.(973)

    READINGS:—St. Thomas, Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 113, and the
    commentators, especially Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 7, art. 1
    sqq.; *Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, l. II (Opera Omnia, ed.
    Fèvre, Vol. VI, pp. 208 sqq., Paris 1873).

    Besides the current text-books cfr. *Jos. Wieser, S. Pauli
    Apostoli Doctrina de Iustificatione, Trent 1874; H. Th. Simar,
    Die Theologie des hl. Paulus, 2nd ed., §33 sqq. Freiburg 1883.

    On the Protestant notion of justification cfr. Möhler, Symbolik,
    §10 sqq., Mainz 1890 (Robertson’s translation, pp. 82 sqq., 5th
    ed., London 1906); Realenzyklopädie für prot. Theologie, Vol.
    XVI, 3rd ed., pp. 482 sqq., Leipzig 1905 (summarized in English in
    the New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Vol.

Section 2. Justifying Or Sanctifying Grace

Sanctifying grace is defined by Deharbe as “an unmerited, supernatural gift, imparted to the
soul by the Holy Ghost, by which we are made just, children of God, and heirs of Heaven.” As
it makes sinners just, sanctifying grace is also called justifying, though this appellation
can not be applied to the sanctification of our first parents in Paradise or to that of the
angels and the sinless soul of Christ. Justification, as we have shown, consists in the infusion
of sanctifying grace, and hence it is important that we obtain a correct idea of the latter.
We will therefore consider (1) The Nature of Sanctifying Grace, (2) Its Effects in the Soul,
and (3) Its Supernatural Concomitants.

Article 1. The Nature Of Sanctifying Grace

1. SANCTIFYING GRACE A “PERMANENT QUALITY” OF THE SOUL.—Having no intuitive knowledge of sanctifying
grace, we are obliged, in order to obtain an idea of its true nature, to study its effects,
as made known to us by Revelation. Sacred Scripture and the teaching of the Church do, however,
enable us to form certain well-defined conclusions, of which the most important is that sanctifying
grace must be conceived as a permanent quality (qualitas permanens) of the soul. If it is a
permanent quality, sanctifying grace cannot be identical with actual grace or with “uncreated
grace,” i.e. the Person of the Holy Ghost.

a) In conformity with such Biblical expressions as “the new life,” “renovation of the spirit,”
“regeneration,” “divine sonship,” etc., the Council of Trent defines justifying grace as a
supernatural something “infused” into and “inherent” in the soul. Both ideas denote a permanent
state, not a mere transient act or the result of such acts. This view is incompatible with
the definition just quoted; in fact Suarez, Bellarmine, Ripalda, and others regard it as positively
heretical or at least intolerably rash. During the preliminary debates at Trent some of the
Fathers asked for an express declaration of the Council to the effect that justification is
wrought by the instrumentality of an infused habit; but their request was set aside on the
ground that the nature of justifying grace as a stable habit is sufficiently indicated by the
word “inhaeret.”(978)

That sanctifying grace is a permanent state of the soul may also be inferred from the Catholic
teaching that the grace which Baptism imparts to children does not differ essentially from
that which it imparts to adults. True, this teaching was not always regarded as certain;(979)
but at the Ecumenical Council of Vienne, A. D. 1311, Pope Clement V declared it to be “the
more probable opinion,”(980) and it was rendered absolutely certain by the Tridentine decision
that infant Baptism results not only in the remission of sins, but likewise in an infusion
of sanctifying grace. This being so, there can be no essential difference between the justification
of children and that of adults. Now it cannot be actual grace which renders children righteous
in the sight of God, for they are unable to avail themselves of actual grace on account of
the undeveloped state of their intellect. The grace that Baptism imparts to them is consequently
a gratia inhaerens et informans, that is, a permanent state of grace; and it must be the same
in adults.(981)

Peter Lombard(982) identified sanctifying grace with the gratia increata, i.e. the Person of
the Holy Ghost. This notion was combatted by St. Thomas(983) and implicitly rejected by the
Tridentine Council when it declared that sanctifying grace inheres in the soul and may be increased
by good works.(984) To say that the Holy Ghost is poured forth in the hearts of men, or that
He may be increased by good works, would evidently savor of Pantheism. The Holy Ghost pours
forth sanctifying grace and is consequently not the formal but the efficient cause of justification.(985)

b) The gratia inhaerens permanens is not a mere relation or denominatio extrinseca, but a positive
entity productive of real effects,(986) and must consequently be conceived either as a substance
or as an accident. We have shown that it is not identical with the uncreated substance of the
Holy Ghost. Neither can it be a created substance. The idea of an intrinsically supernatural
created substance involves a contradiction.(987) Moreover, sanctifying grace in its nature
and purpose is not an entity independently co-existing with the soul but something physically
inherent in it. Now, a thing which has its existence by inhering in some other thing is in
philosophic parlance an “accident.” St. Thomas expressly teaches that, “since it transcends
human nature, grace cannot be a substance nor a substantial form, but is an accidental form
of the soul itself.”(988) Agreeable to this conception is the further Thomistic teaching that
sanctifying grace is not directly created by God, but drawn (educta) from the potentia obedientialis
of the soul.(989) Not even the Scotists, though they held grace to be created out of nothing(990)
claimed that it was a new substance.

An accident that inheres in a substance permanently and physically is called a quality (qualitas,
ποιότης). Consequently, sanctifying grace must be defined as a supernatural quality of the
soul. This is the express teaching of the Roman Catechism: “Grace ... is a divine quality inherent
in the soul, and, as it were, a certain splendor and light that effaces all the stains of our
souls and renders the souls themselves brighter and more beautiful.”(991)

2. SANCTIFYING GRACE AN INFUSED HABIT.—Sanctifying grace may more specifically, though with
a lesser degree of certainty, be described as a habit (habitus). Being entitatively supernatural,
this habit must be infused or “drawn out” by the Holy Ghost.

a) Aristotle(992) distinguishes four different sets of qualities: (1) habit and disposition;
(2) power and incapacity; (3) passio (the power of causing sensations) and patibilis qualitas
(result of the modification of sense); (4) figure and circumscribing form (of extended bodies).
As sanctifying grace manifestly cannot come under one of the three last-mentioned heads, it
must be either a habit or a disposition. Habit denotes a permanent and comparatively stable
quality, by which a substance, considered as to its nature or operation, is well or ill adapted
to its natural end.(993) As a permanently inhering quality, sanctifying grace must be a habit.
Hence its other name, “habitual grace.” The Scholastics draw a distinction between entitative
and operative habits. An operative habit (habitus operativus) gives not only the power (potentia)
to act, but also a certain facility, and may be either good, bad, or indifferent. An entitative
habit (habitus entitativus) is an inherent quality by which a substance is rendered permanently
good or bad, e.g. beauty, ugliness, health, disease.

Philosophy knows only operative habits. But sanctifying grace affects the very substance of
the soul. Hence the supplementary theological category of entitative habits. “Grace,” says
St. Thomas, “belongs to the first species of quality, though it cannot properly be called a
habit, because it is not immediately ordained to action, but to a kind of spiritual being,
which it produces in the soul.”(994) There is another reason why grace cannot be called a habit
in the philosophical sense of the term:—it supplies no acquired facility to act. This consideration
led Suarez to abstain altogether from the use of the term “habit” in connection with grace,(995)
and induced Cardinal Bellarmine to describe sanctifying grace as a qualitas per modum habitus,(996)
by which phrase he wished to indicate that it imparts a supernatural perfection of being rather
than a facility to act. To obviate these and similar subtleties the Council of Trent defined
sanctifying grace simply as a permanent quality.

Nevertheless scientific theology employs the term habitus because it has no other philosophical
category ready to hand. This defect in the Aristotelian system is somewhat surprising in view
of the fact that besides the supernatural, there are distinctly natural qualities which “belong
to the first species,” though they impart no facility to act but merely a disposition to certain
modes of being, e.g. beauty, health, etc.

There is also a positive reason which justifies the definition of sanctifying grace as a habit.
It is that grace imparts to the soul, if not the facility, at least the power to perform supernaturally
meritorious acts, so that it is really more than a habitus entitativus, namely, a habitus (at
least remotely) operativus.(997)

b) The Scholastic distinction between native and acquired habits does not apply in the supernatural
domain, because the supernatural by its very definition can never be either a part or an acquisition
of mere nature.(998) It follows from this that supernatural habits, both entitative and operative,
can be imparted to the human soul in no other way than by infusion (or excitation) from above.
Hence the name habitus infusus. When the Holy Ghost infuses sanctifying grace, the habitus
entitativus imparts to the soul a supernatural principle of being, while the habitus operativus
confers upon it a supernatural power, which by faithful coöperation with (actual) grace may
be developed into a facility to perform salutary acts. Hence, if we adopt the division of habits
into entitative and operative, sanctifying grace must be defined first as an entitative habit
(habitus entitativus), because it forms the groundwork of permanent righteousness, sanctity,
divine sonship, etc.; and, secondly, as an infused habit, because it is not born in the soul
and cannot be acquired by practice. This view is in accord with Sacred Scripture, which describes
the grace of justification as a divine seed abiding in man,(999) a treasure carried in earthen
vessels,(1000) a regeneration by which the soul becomes the abode of God(1001) and a temple
of the Holy Ghost.(1002)

3. THE CONTROVERSY REGARDING THE ALLEGED IDENTITY OF SANCTIFYING GRACE AND CHARITY.—As justifying
grace and theological love (charity) are both infused habits, the question arises as to their
objective identity. The answer will depend on the solution of the problem, just treated, whether
sanctifying grace is primarily an entitative or an operative habit. Of theological love we
know that it is essentially an operative habit, being one, and indeed the chief of the “three
theological virtues.” What we have said in the preceding paragraph will enable the reader to
perceive, at the outset, that there is a real distinction between grace and charity, and that
consequently the two can not be identical.

a) Nevertheless there is an imposing school of theologians who maintain the identity of grace
with charity. They are Scotus(1003) and his followers,(1004) Cardinal Bellarmine,(1005) Molina,
Lessius, Salmeron, Vasquez, Sardagna, Tournely, and others. Their principal argument is that
Holy Scripture ascribes active justification indiscriminately to theological love and sanctifying
grace, and that some of the Fathers follow this example. Here are a few of the Scriptural texts
quoted in favor of this opinion. Luke VII, 47: “Many sins are forgiven her, because she hath
loved much.”(1006) 1 Pet. IV, 8: “Charity covereth a multitude of sins.”(1007) 1 John IV, 7:
“Every one that loveth is born of God.”(1008) St. Augustine seems to identify the two habits
in such passages as the following: “Inchoate love, therefore, is inchoate righteousness; ...
great love is great righteousness; perfect love is perfect righteousness.”(1009) According
to the Tridentine Council, “the justification of the impious” takes place when “the charity
of God is poured forth ... in the hearts of those that are justified, and is inherent therein.”(1010)
It is argued that, if charity and grace produce the same effects, they must be identical as
causes, and there can be at most a virtual distinction between them. This argument is strengthened
by the observation that sanctifying grace and theological love constitute the supernatural
life of the soul and the loss of either entails spiritual death.

These arguments prove that grace and charity are inseparable, but nothing more. All the Scriptural
and Patristic passages cited can be explained without recourse to the hypothesis that they
are identical. Charity is not superfluous alongside of sanctifying grace, because the primary
object of grace is to impart supernatural being, whereas charity confers a special faculty
which enables the intellect and the will to elicit supernatural salutary acts.

b) The majority of Catholic theologians(1011) hold with St. Thomas(1012) and his school that
grace and charity, while inseparable, are really distinct, sanctifying grace as a habitus entitativus
imparting to the soul a supernatural being, whereas charity, being purely a habitus operativus,
confers a supernatural power.

Let us put the matter somewhat differently. Grace inheres in the substance of the soul, while
charity has its seat in one of its several faculties. Inhering in the very substance of the
soul, grace, by a physical or moral power, produces the three theological virtues—faith, hope,
and love. “As the soul’s powers, which are the wellsprings of its acts, flow from its essence,”
says the Angelic Doctor, “so the theological virtues flow from grace into the faculties of
the soul and move them to act.”(1013) And St. Augustine: “Grace precedes charity.”(1014)

This is a more plausible view than the one we have examined a little farther up, and it can
claim the authority of Scripture, which, though it occasionally identifies the effects of grace
and charity, always clearly distinguishes the underlying habits. Cfr. 2 Cor. XIII, 13: “The
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the charity of God.”(1015) 1 Tim. I 14: “The grace of our
Lord hath abounded exceedingly with faith and love.”(1016) Furthermore, “regeneration” and
“new-creation” in Biblical usage affect not only the faculties of the soul, but its substance.
Finally, many councils consistently distinguish between gratia and caritas (dona, virtutes)—a
distinction which has almost the force of a proof that grace and charity are not the same thing.(1017)
These councils cannot have had in mind a purely virtual distinction, because theological love
presupposes sanctifying grace in exactly the same manner as a faculty presupposes a substance
or nature in which it exists. The Roman Catechism expressly designates the theological virtues
as “concomitants of grace.”(1018)

The question nevertheless remains an open one, as neither party can fully establish its claim,
and the Church has never rendered an official decision either one way or the other.(1019)

4. SANCTIFYING GRACE A PARTICIPATION OF THE SOUL IN THE DIVINE NATURE.—The highest and at the
same time the most profound conception of sanctifying grace is that it is a real, though of
course only accidental and analogical, participation of the soul in the nature of God. That
sanctifying grace makes us “partakers of the divine nature” is of faith, but the manner in
which it effects this participation admits of different explanations.

a) The fact itself can be proved from Sacred Scripture. Cfr. 2 Pet. Cfr. But He who justifies
also deifies, because He makes [men] sons of God through justification.... We have been made
sons of God and gods; but this is a grace of the adopting [God], not the nature of the progenitor.
The Son of God alone is God; ... the others who are made gods are made gods by His grace; they
are not born of His substance, so as to become that which He is, but in order that they may
come to Him by favor and become co-heirs with Christ.”(1027) The idea underlying this passage
has found its way into the liturgy of the Mass,(1028) and Ripalda is justified in declaring
that it cannot be denied without rashness.(1029)

b) In trying to explain in what manner grace enables us to partake of the divine nature, it
is well to keep in view the absolutely supernatural character of sanctifying grace and the
impossibility of any deification of the creature in the strict sense of the term. The truth
lies between these two extremes.

A few medieval mystics(1030) and modern Quietists(1031) were guilty of exaggeration when they
taught that grace transforms the human soul into the substance of the Godhead, thus completely
merging the creature in its Creator. This contention(1032) leads to Pantheism. How can the
soul be merged in the Creator, since it continues to be subject to concupiscence? “We have
therefore,” says St. Augustine, “even now begun to be like Him, as we have the first-fruits
of the Spirit; but yet even now we are unlike Him, by reason of the old nature which leaves
its remains in us. In as far, then, as we are like Him, in so far are we, by the regenerating
Spirit, sons of God; but in as far as we are unlike Him, in so far are we the children of the
flesh and of this world.”(1033)

On the other hand it would be underestimating the power of grace to say that it effects a merely
external and moral participation of the soul in the divine nature, similar to that by which
those who embraced the faith of Abraham were called “children of Abraham,” and those who commit
heinous crimes are called “sons of the devil.” According to the Fathers(1034) and theologians,
to “partake of the divine nature” means to become internally and physically like God and to
receive from Him truly divine gifts, i.e. such as are proper to God alone and absolutely transcend
the order of nature.(1035) Being self-existing, absolutely independent, and infinite, God cannot,
of course, be regarded as the formal cause of created sanctity; yet the strictly supernatural
gifts which He confers on His creatures, especially the beatific vision and sanctifying grace,
can be conceived only per modum causae formalis (not informantis), because through them God
gives Himself to the creature in such an intimate way that the creature is raised up to and
transfigured by Him.(1036) Consequently, the so-called deificatio of the soul by grace is not
a real deification, but an assimilation of the creature to God.(1037)

c) Which one of God’s numerous attributes forms the basis of the supernatural communication
made to the soul in the bestowal of grace, is a question on which theologians differ widely.
The so-called incommunicable attributes, (self-existence, immensity, eternity, etc.), of course,
cannot be imparted to the creature except by way of a hypostatic union.(1038)

Gonet(1039) misses the point at issue, therefore, when He declares the essential characteristic
of deification to be the communication to the creature of the divine attributes of self-existence
and infinity. Self-existence is absolutely incommunicable.(1040) Somewhat more plausible, though
hardly acceptable, is Ripalda’s opinion that deification formally consists in the participation
of the creature in the holiness of the Creator, particularly in the supernatural vital communion
of the soul with God in faith, hope, and charity, thus making sanctifying grace the radix totius
honestatis moralis.(1041) While it is perfectly true that the supernatural life of the soul
is a life in and through God, and that the very concept of sanctifying grace involves a peculiar
and special relation of the soul to God, the Biblical term κοινωνία θείας φύσεως points to
a still deeper principle of the sanctifying vita deiformis. This principle, as some of the
Fathers intimate, and St. Thomas expressly teaches,(1042) is the absolute intellectuality of
God. Hence the object of sanctifying grace is to impart to the soul in a supernatural manner
such a degree of intellectuality as is necessary to perceive the absolute Spirit—here on earth
in the obscurity of faith, and in the life beyond by the lumen gloriae.(1043) This view is
to a certain extent confirmed by Sacred Scripture, which describes the regeneration of the
sinner as a birth of spirit from spirit.(1044) It is also held by some of the Fathers, who
attribute to sanctifying grace both a deifying and a spiritualizing power. Thus St. Basil(1045)
says: “The spirit-bearing souls, illuminated by the Holy Ghost, themselves become spiritual(1046)
and radiate grace to others. Hence ... to become like unto God,(1047) is the highest of all
goals: to become God.”(1048) Finally, since the Holy Ghost, as the highest exponent of the
spirituality of the divine nature, by His personal indwelling crowns and consummates both the
regeneration of the soul and its assimilation to God, there is a strong theological probability
in favor of Suarez’s view. Of course the process does not attain its climax until the creature
is finally admitted to the beatific vision in Heaven. Cfr. 1 John III, 2: “We are now the sons
of God, and it hath not yet appeared what we shall be. We know that, when He shall appear,
we shall be like to Him, because we shall see Him as He is.”(1049)

Article 2. The Effects Of Sanctifying Grace

We shall better understand the nature of sanctifying grace by studying what are known as its
“formal effects.” As the causa efficiens of a thing is commonly farther removed from our mental
grasp than its effects, we are ordinarily more familiar with the latter than with the former.
For this reason the glories of divine grace can be best explained to children and to the faithful
in general by describing the effects it produces in the soul.(1050)

1. SANCTITY.—The first among the formal effects of sanctifying grace (an effect connoted by
its very name) is sanctity. Eph. For it is precisely by the infusion of sanctifying grace that
sin is wiped out and sanctity established in its place.(1053)

a) By sanctifying grace the justified man becomes a living member (membrum vivum) of the mystical
body of Christ. His sins, it is true, did not forfeit membership in the Church, so long as
he preserved the faith, but by sinning he became a dead member who can regain life only by
returning to the state of grace. Grace is the life of the soul, sin its death. Hence the evil
of mortal sin can be most effectively illustrated by contrast with the glory of divine grace,
and vice versa. Cfr. Gal. II, 20: “And I live, now not I, but Christ liveth in me.”(1054)

b) He who hates mortal sin and faithfully obeys the will of God, enjoys peace of heart,(1055)
whereas the sinner is incessantly harassed by qualms of conscience. The faithful Christian
rejoices in serving His Master and combats the flesh, the world, and the devil with a fortitude
that not infrequently rises to heroic proportions, as the example of many holy men and women
proves.

c) Sanctifying grace entails a particular providence, inasmuch as, by means of it, God grants
man His special assistance towards preserving the state of grace, without, of course, interfering
with free-will. Cfr. Is. XLIX, 16: “Behold, I have graven thee in my hands.”(1056) Rom. VIII,
28: “... to them that love God, all things work together unto good.”(1057) Mediately, God also
proves his special love for the just man by shielding him from bodily and spiritual danger.

2. SUPERNATURAL BEAUTY.—Though we can quote no formal ecclesiastical definition to prove that
sanctifying grace beautifies the soul, the fact is sufficiently certain from Revelation. If,
as is quite generally held by Catholic exegetes, the Spouse of the Canticle typifies the human
soul endowed with sanctifying grace, all the passages describing the beauty of that Spouse
must be applicable to the souls of those whom Christ embraces with His tender love. The Fathers
of the Church frequently extol the supernatural beauty of the soul in the state of grace. Ambrose
calls it “a splendid painting made by God Himself;” Chrysostom compares it to “a statue of
gold;” Cyril, to “a divine seal;” Basil, to “a shining light,” and so forth. Being composed
of body and soul, man is naturally most impressed by beauty when it appears in a material guise.
But this does not prove that there is no spiritual beauty, or that true beauty abides solely
in matter. Some present-day writers strongly emphasize the need of realism as against an idealism
which, they claim, is not truly human because it exalts the spiritual at the expense of the
material. In its last conclusions this perverted realism harks back to the sophistry of Protagoras
who held that “man is the measure of all things.”(1060) Idealism, on the other hand, is based
on the true Platonic doctrine that God is the measure of all things.(1061) St. Augustine defines
beauty as “unity in variety,” which is a correct definition, because it is adaptable to both
the spiritual and the material order.(1062) Applying this definition we find that the soul
is not only naturally beautiful by the substantial unity and simplicity which shines forth
in the variety of its faculties and powers, but also supernaturally by virtue of sanctifying
grace, which transfuses nature into a new unity with the supernatural,—at the same time producing
a variety of theological and moral virtues and the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost, and thus
creating a true work of art. Moreover, by enabling man to participate in the Divine Nature,(1063)
grace produces in the soul a physical reflection of the uncreated beauty of God, a likeness
of the creature with its Creator, which far transcends the natural likeness imprinted by creation.
True, only God and the Elect in Heaven perceive and enjoy this celestial beauty; but we terrestrial
pilgrims can, as it were, sense it from afar and indulge the hope that we may one day be privileged
to contemplate and enjoy the divine beauty that envelops the souls endowed with grace.

The beauty produced by sanctifying grace must be conceived not merely as a reflection of the
absolute nature of God, who is the pattern-exemplar of all beauty, but more specifically as
an image of the Trinity impressed upon the soul. St. Paul teaches that the soul is transformed
into an image of the Divine Logos, to whom, as the holy Fathers tell us, beauty is appropriated
in an especial manner.(1064) Cfr. Rom. VIII, 29: “Whom he foreknew, he also predestinated to
be made conformable to the image of his Son.”(1065) Gal. IV, 19: “My little children, of whom
I am in labor again, until Christ be formed in you.”(1066) In virtue of the adoptive sonship
effected by grace,(1067) the soul becomes a true “temple of the Holy Ghost.”(1068)

3. THE FRIENDSHIP OF GOD.—Closely connected with the beauty which sanctifying grace confers,
is the supernatural friendship it establishes between God and the soul. True beauty elicits
love and benevolence. By nature man is merely a servant of God; in fact, since the fall, he
is His enemy. Sanctifying grace transforms this hostile relation into genuine friendship. By
grace, says the Council of Trent, “man of unjust becomes just, and of an enemy a friend.”(1069)
And again: “Having been thus justified and made the friends and domestics of God.”(1070) God
loves the just man as His intimate friend and enables and impels him, by means of habitual
grace and habitual charity, to reciprocate that love with all his heart. Here we have the two
constituent elements of friendship. The Bible frequently speaks of friendship existing between
God and the just. Cfr. Wisd. VII, 14: “They [the just] become the friends of God.”(1071) John
XV, 14 sq.: “I will not now call you servants, ... but I have called you friends.”(1072) This
friendship is sometimes compared to a mystic marriage. Cfr. Matth. IX, 15: “And Jesus said
to them: Can the children of the bridegroom mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them?”(1073)
Apoc. XIX, 7: “The marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath prepared herself.”(1074)

a) Friendship (φιλία), according to Aristotle,(1075) is “the conscious love of benevolence
of two persons for each other.” Hence, to constitute friendship, there must be (1) two or more
distinct persons; (2) pure love of benevolence (amor benevolentiae, not concupiscentiae), because
only unselfish love can truly unite hearts; (3) mutual consciousness of affection, because
without a consciousness of the existing relation on both sides there would be merely one-sided
benevolence, not friendship. It follows that true friendship is based on virtue and that a
relation not based on virtue can be called friendship in a qualified or metaphorical sense
only (amicitia utilis, delectabilis).

From what we have said it is easy to deduce the essential characteristics of true friendship.
They are: (1) benevolence; (2) love consciously entertained by both parties; (3) a mutual exchange
of goods or community of life; (4) equality of rank or station. The first condition is based
on the fact that a true friend will not seek his own interest, but that of his friend. It is
to be noted, however, that one’s joy at the presence or prosperity of a friend must not be
inspired by selfishness or sensual desire, for in that case there would be no true friendship.(1076)
The second condition is based on the necessity of friendship being mutual love, for friendship
is not a one-sided affection, nor does it spend itself in mutual admiration. The third condition
is necessary for the reason that love, if it is to be more than “Platonic,” must result in
acts of benevolence and good will.(1077) Of the fourth condition St. Jerome says: “Friendship
finds men equal or makes them equal.”(1078)

b) All these conditions are found in the friendship with which Almighty God deigns to honor
those who are in the state of sanctifying grace.

(1) That God loves the just man with a love of pure benevolence and eagerly seeks his companionship,
is proved by the mysteries of the Incarnation and the Holy Eucharist. Cfr. Prov. VIII, 31:
“And my delight [is] to be with the children of men.”(1079)

(2) The just man is enabled to return God’s love by the habit of theological charity, which
is inseparably bound up with and spontaneously flows from sanctifying grace.(1080) God’s consciousness
of this mutual love is, of course, based on certain knowledge, whereas man can have merely
a probable conjecture. This, however, suffices to establish a true friendship, as the example
of human friends shows.(1081)

(3) There is also community of life and property between God and man when the latter is in
the state of sanctifying grace; for not only is he indebted to God for his very nature and
all natural favors which he enjoys, but likewise and especially for the supernatural blessings
bestowed upon him.(1082) On his own part, it is true, he cannot give his Benefactor anything
in return which that Benefactor does not already possess; but the just man is ever eager to
further God’s external glorification, agreeable to the first petition of the Our Father: “Hallowed
by Thy name.”(1083) God has furthermore given him a kind of substitute for operative charity
in the love of his neighbor, which has precisely the same formal object as the love of God.
Cfr. 1 John III, 17: “He that hath the substance of this world, and shall see his brother in
need, and shall shut up his bowels from him: how doth the charity of God abide in him?”(1084)

(4) There can be no real equality between God and the human soul, but God in His infinite goodness,
elevating the soul to a higher plane and allowing it to participate in His own nature,(1085)
makes possible an amicitia excellentiae s. eminentiae, which is sufficient to constitute a
true relation of friendship. Without this elevation of the soul by grace there could be no
friendship between God and man.(1086)

4. ADOPTIVE SONSHIP.—The formal effects of sanctifying grace culminate in the elevation of
man to the rank of an adopted child of God (filius Dei adoptivus), with a claim to the paternal
inheritance, i.e. the beatific vision in Heaven. This truth is so clearly stated in Scripture
and Tradition that its denial would be heretical. The Tridentine Council summarily describes
justification as “the state of grace and of the adoption of the sons of God,”(1087) The teaching
of Holy Scripture can be gathered from such texts as the following. Rom. VIII, 15 sqq.: “...
You have received the spirit of adoption of sons, whereby we cry: Abba (Father). For the spirit
himself giveth testimony to our spirit, that we are the sons of God. IV, 5: “... that we might
receive the adoption of sons.”(1090) That the just become the adopted sons of God follows likewise
as a corollary from the doctrine of regeneration so frequently taught by Scripture. This regeneration
is not a procession of the soul from the divine essence, but a kind of accidental and analogical
procreation substantially identical with adoption (filiatio adoptiva, υἱοθεσία). Cfr. John
I, 12 sq.: “... He gave them power to be made the sons of God, ... who are born ... of God.”(1091)

a) St. Thomas defines adoption as “the gratuitous acceptance of a child of other parents to
be the same as one’s own child and heir.”(1092) Adoption implies (1) that the adopted child
be a stranger to the adopting father; (2) that it have no legal claim to adoption; (3) that
it give its consent to being adopted; (4) that it be received by the adopting father with parental
love and affection. All these elements are present, in a far higher and more perfect form,
in the adoption of a soul by God.

(1) The rational creature, as such, is not a “son” but merely a “servant of God,”(1093) and,
if he be in the state of mortal sin, His enemy.

(2) That adoption is a gratuitous favor on the part of the Almighty, follows from the fact
that the adopted creature is His enemy and that grace is a free supernatural gift, to which
no creature has a natural claim. Adoption furthermore implies the right of inheritance.(1094)
The heritage of the children of God is a purely spiritual possession which can be enjoyed simultaneously
by many, and consequently excels every natural heritage. Men, as a rule, do not distribute
their property during life, while, after their death, it is usually divided up among several
heirs.(1095)

(3) Whereas adoption among men owes its existence to the desire of offspring on the part of
childless parents, the adoption of the soul by God springs from pure benevolence and unselfish
love, and for this reason presupposes (in the case of adults) the free consent of the adopted.
No one can become an adopted son of God against his will.(1096)

(4) Whereas human adoption supposes substantial equality between father and child, and therefore
at best amounts to no more than a legal acceptance, adoption by God elevates the soul to a
higher level by allowing it to participate in the Divine Nature, and consequently is a true
(even though merely an accidental and analogical) regeneration in God.

b) From what we have said it follows—and this is a truth of considerable speculative importance—that
there are essential points of difference as well as of resemblance between Jesus Christ, the
true Son of God, and the justified sinner adopted by the Heavenly Father.

α) The difference between the “natural Son of God” and an “adopted son” is exactly like that
between God and creature. The Logos-Son, engendered by eternal generation from the divine substance,
is the true natural Son of the Father, the Second Person of the Divine Trinity, and Himself
God.(1097) The just man, on the other hand, is a child of God merely by the possession of sanctifying
grace,(1098) which can be lost by mortal sin and consequently is founded upon a free relation
that may be terminated by man as freely as it was entered into between himself and God.

Intimately related to this distinction is another:—Christ is the Son of the Father alone, the
just man is an adopted child of the whole Trinity.(1099) This fact does not, however, prevent
us from “appropriating” adoptive sonship to each of the three Divine Persons according to His
peculiar hypostatic character:—the Father as its author, the Son as its pattern, and the Holy
Ghost as its conveyor.(1100) Now, if Christ, as the true Son of God, is the efficient cause
(causa efficiens) of that adoptive sonship of which, as God, He is also the pattern-exemplar
(causa exemplaris), it follows that He cannot be an adopted son of God. “Christus est incapax
adoptionis,” as Suarez puts it.(1101) To say that He is both the natural and an adopted Son
of God would be heretical.(1102) Consequently, sanctifying grace, in Him, did not exercise
one of the functions it invariably exercises in the souls of men, i.e. it did not make Him
an adopted son of God.

β) It is to be noted, however, that the unique position enjoyed by our Lord gives rise, not
only to essential distinctions but also to an equal number of analogies between the Only-begotten
Son of God and His adopted sons. The first and most fundamental of these analogies is the attribution
of the common appellation “son of God” both to Christ and to the just. Though Christ is the
only true Son of God, the Heavenly Father has nevertheless charitably “bestowed upon us, that
we should be called, and should be, the sons of God.”(1103) According to John I, 13, Christ
“gave power to be made the sons of God” to them “who are born ... of God.” Hence divine sonship
formally consists in an impression of the hypostatic likeness of the Only-begotten Son of God,
by which the soul in a mysterious manner becomes an image of the Trinity, and especially of
the Only-begotten Son of God, who is the archetype and pattern-exemplar of adoptive sonship.
This hypostatic propriety and exemplariness was the reason why the Second Person of the Trinity
became man.(1104) That the soul of the justified is transformed into “an image of the Son of
God” is expressly taught by the Greek Fathers. Thus St. Cyril of Alexandria says: “Christ is
truly formed in us, inasmuch as the Holy Ghost impresses on us a certain divine likeness by
means of sanctity and justice.... But if any one is formed in Christ, he is formed into a child
of God.”(1105)

These considerations also explain the points of resemblance between the adoptive sonship of
God and the Holy Eucharist. Being our Father by adoption, God is bound to provide us with food
worthy of a divine progenitor. The food He gives us (the Holy Eucharist) corresponds to our
dignity as His children, sustains us in this sublime relation, and at the same time constitutes
the pledge of a glorious resurrection and an eternal beatitude.

c) Is the adoptive sonship of the children of God constituted entirely by sanctifying grace,
or does it require for its full development the personal indwelling in the soul of the Holy
Ghost?(1106) This subtle question formed the subject of an interesting controversy between
Joseph Scheeben and Theodore Granderath, S. J. Father Granderath claimed on the authority of
the Tridentine Council that divine sonship is an inseparable function of sanctifying grace,
and through that grace alone, without the inhabitatio Spiritus Sancti, constitutes the unica
causa formalis of justification. Against this theory Dr. Scheeben maintained with great acumen
and, we think, successfully, that sanctifying grace of itself alone, without the aid of any
other factor, not only completely justifies the sinner but raises him to the rank of an adopted
son of God, though there is nothing to prevent us from holding that the indwelling of the Holy
Ghost forms the climax of the process, and develops and perfects the already existing filiatio
adoptiva.(1107)

Petavius had contended(1108) that the just men of the Old Testament, though in the state of
sanctifying grace, were not adopted children of God, because the filiatio adoptiva is an exclusive
privilege of those living under the Christian Dispensation. This theory became untenable when
the Tridentine Council defined sanctity and adoptive sonship as inseparable formal effects
of sanctifying grace. There can no longer be any doubt, therefore, that the patriarchs, together
with sanctifying grace also enjoyed the privilege of adoptive sonship, though, as Suarez observes,(1109)
adoptive sonship under the Old Covenant depended both as to origin and value upon the adoptive
sonship of the New Testament, and therefore was inferior to it in both respects.(1110)

    READINGS:—Scheeben, Lehrbuch der Dogmatik, Vol. II, § 168 sqq.,
    Freiburg 1878.—J. Kirschkamp, Gnade und Glorie in ihrem inneren
    Zusammenhang, Würzburg 1878.—P. Hagg, Die Reichtümer der
    göttlichen Gnade und die Schwere ihres Verlustes, Ratisbon
    1889.—Card. Katschthaler, De Gratia Sanctificante, 3rd ed.,
    Salzburg 1886.—P. Einig, De Gratia Divina, Part II, Treves
    1896.—Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, pp.
    575 sqq., Mainz 1897.—Scheeben, Die Herrlichkeiten der göttlichen
    Gnade, 8th ed., by A. M. Weiss, O. P., Freiburg 1908 (English
    translation, The Glories of Divine Grace, 3rd ed., New York s.
    a.).—Th. Bourges, O. P., L’Ordre Surnaturel et le Devoir
    Chrétien, Paris 1901.—*B. Terrien, La Grâce et la Gloire ou la
    Filiation Adoptive des Enfants de Dieu Etudiée dans sa Réalité,
    ses Principes, son Perfectionnement et son Couronnement Final, 2
    vols., Paris 1897.—*P. Villada, De Effectibus Formalibus Gratiae
    Habitualis, Valladolid 1899.—L. Hubert, De Gratia
    Sanctificante, Paris 1902.

Article 3. The Supernatural Concomitants Of Sanctifying Grace

Besides producing the effects described in the preceding Article, sanctifying grace also confers
certain supernatural privileges, which, though not of the essence of grace, are, in the present
economy at least, inseparably connected with it and may therefore be regarded as its regular
concomitants.

The existence of these privileges is established by the fact that certain councils (e.g. those
of Vienne and Trent), couple “grace and gifts” in their official definitions.(1111) The doctrine
is clearly stated by the Roman Catechism as follows: “To this [sanctifying grace] is added
a most noble accompaniment of all virtues, which are divinely infused into the soul together
with grace.”(1112)

We will treat of the supernatural concomitants of sanctifying grace in four theses.

*Thesis I: The three divine virtues of faith, hope, and charity are infused into the soul simultaneously
with sanctifying grace.*

Some theologians (notably Suarez, Ripalda, and De Lugo) declare this thesis to be de fide,
while others (Dom. Soto, Melchior Cano, and Vasquez) hold it merely as certain. Under the circumstances
it will be safest to take middle ground by characterizing it as fidei proxima.

Proof. The Council of Trent teaches: “Man through Jesus Christ, in whom he is ingrafted, receives,
in the said justification, together with the remission of sins, all these [gifts] infused at
once—faith, hope, and charity.”(1113)

a) That theological charity, as a habit, is infused together with sanctifying grace can be
convincingly demonstrated from Holy Scripture. Cfr. Rom. V, 5: “... the charity of God is poured
forth in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, who is given to us.”(1114) In connection with charity,
Holy Scripture frequently mentions faith. Cfr. 1 Cor. XIII, 2: “And if I should have ... all
faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.”(1115) All three
of the theological virtues are expressly enumerated in 1 Cor. XIII, 13: “And now there remain
faith, hope, and charity, these three: but the greatest of these is charity.”(1116) Unlike
certain other texts, the one last quoted leaves no doubt that faith, hope, and charity are
to be conceived as dona inhaerentia, i.e. habits or qualities inherent in the soul. This interpretation
is approved by the Fathers and Scholastics.

b) St. Thomas proves the necessity of the three theological virtues for salvation as follows:
“In order that we be properly moved towards our end [God], that end must be both known and
desired. Desire of an end includes two things: first, hope of attaining it, because no prudent
man will aspire to that which he cannot attain; and secondly, love, because nothing is desired
that is not loved. And hence there are three theological virtues,—faith, by which we know God;
hope, by which we trust to obtain Him; and charity, by which we love Him.”(1117)

When are the three theological virtues infused into the soul? This is an open question so far
as faith and hope are concerned. Of charity we know that it is always infused with habitual
grace. Suarez contends that, when the soul is properly disposed, faith and hope are infused
before justification proper, that is to say, in the process leading up to it. St. Thomas and
St. Bonaventure, on the other hand, hold that faith and hope, like charity, are infused at
the moment when justification actually takes place in the soul. This last-mentioned opinion
is favored by the Tridentine Council.(1118)

Mortal sin first destroys sanctifying grace together with the habit of charity that is inseparable
from it. Faith and hope may continue to exist in the soul, and if hope, too, departs, faith
may remain alone. But the loss of faith invariably entails the destruction of hope and charity.

*Thesis II: Together with sanctifying grace there are also infused the supernatural moral virtues.*

This proposition may be characterized as sententia communior et probabilior. Though denied
by some theologians, it can claim a high degree of probability.(1119)

Proof. The infused moral virtues (virtutes morales infusae) differ from the theological virtues
in that they have for their immediate formal object, not God Himself, but the creature in its
relation to the moral law.

The moral virtues may be reduced to four, viz.: prudence, justice, fortitude, and temperance.
The meaning evidently is that a disposition to do good will be a characteristic of the New
Testament Christians in contradistinction to the hardhearted Old Testament Jews. He who has
a “heart of flesh” will walk in God’s commandments and keep His judgments. Hence “heart” signifies
the sum-total of all those habits which impel and enable a man to lead a good life. Since it
is God Himself who gives the “heart of flesh,” i.e. the moral virtues, it follows that they
are supernaturally infused.(1123)

b) Some of the Fathers ascribe the moral virtues directly to divine infusion.

Thus St. Augustine observes that the cardinal virtues “are given to us through the grace of
God.”(1124) And St. Gregory the Great says that the Holy Ghost does “not desert the hearts
of those who are perfect in faith, hope, and charity, and in those other goods without which
no man can attain to the heavenly fatherland.”(1125) St. Thomas shows the theological reason
for this by pointing to the parallel that exists between nature and the supernatural. “Effects,”
he says, “must always be proportionate to their causes and principles. Now all virtues, intellectual
and moral, which we acquire by our acts, proceed from certain natural principles preëxisting
in us.... In lieu of these natural principles God confers on us the theological virtues, by
which we are directed to a supernatural end.... Hence there must correspond to these theological
virtues, proportionally, other habits caused in us by God, and which bear the same relation
to the theological virtues that the moral and intellectual virtues bear to the natural principles
of virtue.”(1126)

*Thesis III: The seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are also infused with sanctifying grace.*

This proposition may be qualified as “probabilis.”

Proof. And he shall be filled with the spirit of the fear of the Lord.” Four of these supernatural
gifts (wisdom, understanding, counsel, and knowledge) perfect the intellect in matters pertaining
to salvation, while the remaining three (fortitude, godliness, and the fear of the Lord) direct
the will to its supernatural end. Are these seven gifts, (or some of them), really distinct
from the infused moral virtues? Are they habits or habitual dispositions, or merely transient
impulses or inspirations? What are their mutual relations and how can they be divided off from
one another? These and similar questions are in dispute among theologians. The prevailing opinion
is that the gifts of the Holy Ghost are infused habitual dispositions, realiter distinct from
the theological and moral virtues, by which the soul is endowed with a supernatural capacity
for receiving the inspirations of the Holy Ghost and a supernatural readiness to obey His impulses
in all important matters pertaining to salvation.(1127)

That the gifts of the Holy Ghost are infused into the soul simultaneously with sanctifying
grace, can be demonstrated as follows: Christ, as the mystical head, is the pattern of justification
for the members of His spiritual body, who are united to Him by sanctifying grace.(1128) Now
the Holy Ghost dwelled in Christ with all His gifts as permanent habits.(1129) Consequently,
these gifts are imparted by infusion to those who receive the grace of justification. This
is manifestly the belief of the Church, for she prays in the “Veni Sancte Spiritus”:

    “Shed upon thy faithful fold,
    By unbounded hope controlled,
    Thy seven gifts.”(1130)

*Thesis IV: The process of justification reaches its climax in the personal indwelling of the
Holy Ghost in the soul of the just.*

This thesis embodies what is technically called a propositio certa.

Proof. There are two ways in which God may dwell in the soul, either by virtue of His created
grace (inhabitatio per dona accidentalia, ἐνοίκησις κατ᾽ ἐνέργειαν) or by virtue of His uncreated
substance (inhabitatio substantialis sive personalis, ἐνοίκησις κατ᾽ οὐσίαν). The personal
indwelling of the Holy Ghost, therefore, may consist in a twofold grace: gratia creata and
gratia increata, of which the former is the groundwork and necessary condition of the latter,
while the latter may be described as the climax and consummation of the former.(1131) The indwelling
of the Holy Ghost in the souls of the just is taught by Holy Scripture and attested by the Fathers.

a) Holy Scripture draws a clear-cut distinction between the accidental and the substantial
indwelling of the Holy Ghost.

α) Our Lord Himself, in addition to the charismata, promised His Apostles the Holy Ghost in
Person. John XIV, 16 sq.: “... the Father ... shall give you another Paraclete, that he may
abide with you for ever, ... but you shall know him, because he shall abide with you, and shall
be in you.”(1132) This promise was made to all the faithful. Cfr. 1 Cor. III, 16 sq.: “Know
you not that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?... For
the temple of God is holy, which you are.”(1135) 1 Cor. VI, 19: “Or know you not that your
members are the temple of the Holy Ghost, who is in you, whom you have from God; and you are
not your own?”(1136)

β) Agreeable to this teaching of Scripture the Fathers, especially those of the East, assert
the substantial indwelling of the Holy Ghost in the souls of the just.

The fact that no one but God can dwell substantially and personally in a creature was cited
by the Greek Fathers in their controversies with the Pneumatomachians to prove the divinity
of the Holy Ghost. St. Athanasius writes to Serapion:(1137) “If we by receiving the Holy Ghost
are allowed to participate in the Divine Nature, no one but a fool will assert that the Holy
Ghost is not of divine but of human nature. For all those in whom He abides become deified(1138)
for no other reason. But if He constitutes them gods, there can be no doubt that His nature
is divine.” St. Basil comments as follows on Ps. LXXXI, 6 (Ego dixi, dii estis): “But the Spirit
that causes the gods to be gods, must be divine, and from God, ... and God.”(1139) St. Cyril
of Alexandria(1140) glowingly describes the soul inhabited by the Holy Ghost as inlaid with
gold, transfused by fire, filled with the sweet odor of balsam, and so forth.

The Latin Fathers, with one exception, are less definite on this point. St. Augustine says
that the Holy Ghost “is given as a gift of God in such a way that He Himself also gives Himself
as being God,”(1141) and that “the grace of God is a gift of God, but the greatest gift is
the Holy Spirit Himself, who therefore is called a grace.”(1142) Again: “... the Holy Spirit
is the gift of God, the gift being Himself indeed equal to the giver, and therefore the Holy
Ghost also is God, not inferior to the Father and the Son.”(1143)

b) While theologians are unanimous in accepting the doctrine of the personal indwelling of
the Holy Ghost in the just as clearly contained in Sacred Scripture and Tradition, they differ
in explaining the manner in which He dwells in the soul.

α) The great majority hold that the Holy Ghost can not dwell in the soul, as the human soul
dwells in the body, per modum informationis, nor yet by a hypostatic union, as godhead and
manhood dwell together in the Person of Christ; and that consequently His indwelling is objectively
an indwelling of the whole Trinity, which is appropriated to the Third Person merely because
the Holy Ghost is “hypostatic holiness” or “personal love.” This view is based on what is called
“the fundamental law of the Trinity,” viz.: “In God all things are one except where there is
opposition of relation.”(1144) Sacred Scripture speaks of the personal indwelling of the Father
and the Son as well as of the Holy Ghost. Cfr. John XIV, 23: “If any one love me, he will keep
my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and will make our abode with
him.”(1145) St. Athanasius concludes from these words that “the energia of the Trinity is one....
Indeed when the Lord says: I and the Father will come, the Spirit also comes, to dwell in us
in precisely the same manner in which the Son dwells in us.”(1146) And St. Augustine teaches:
“Love, therefore, which is of God and is God, is properly the Holy Spirit, by whom the love
of God is shed abroad in our hearts,—that love by which the whole Trinity dwells in us.”(1147)
Accordingly, the personal indwelling of the Holy Ghost consists in the state of grace as bearing
a special relation to the Third Person of the Trinity; the “higher nature” which sanctifying
grace imparts to the soul is not an absolute but a relative form (σχέσις), by which the soul
is mysteriously united with the Three Divine Persons and, by appropriation, with the Holy Ghost,
thereby becoming a throne and temple of God. It is in this sense that the indwelling of the
Holy Ghost in the soul is called the climax of justification.(1148)

β) Other eminent theologians (Petavius, Passaglia, Schrader, Scheeben, Hurter, et al.) regard
the explanation just given as unsatisfactory. They contend that the Fathers, especially those
of the East, conceived the indwelling of the Holy Ghost in the souls of the just, not as an
indwelling (ἐνοίκησις) of the Trinity, appropriated to the Holy Ghost, but as a union (ἕνωσις)
of the Holy Ghost Himself with the soul.(1149) This union, they say, is neither physical nor
hypostatic, but an altogether unique and inexplicable relation by which the soul is morally,
accidentally, and actively united to the person of the Holy Ghost.(1150)

γ) Unfortunately this exalted and mystic theory cannot be squared with the theological principles
underlying the Catholic teaching on the Trinity, especially that portion of it which concerns
the appropriations and missions of the three Divine Persons.(1151) It is true that sanctifying
grace culminates in a communication of the Divine Nature, and that this θείωσις is effected
by imprinting upon the soul an image of the divine processes of generation and spiration,—the
first by adoptive filiation, the second by an indwelling of the Holy Ghost.(1152) In fact all
the Trinitarian relations are reflected in the justification of the sinner. Thus regeneration
corresponds to the generation of the Logos by the Father; adoptive sonship and the accompanying
participation of the soul in the Divine Nature corresponds to our Lord’s natural sonship and
his consubstantiality with the Father; the indwelling of the Holy Ghost and His union with
the soul, on the other hand, corresponds to the divine process of Spiration, inasmuch as it
is preëminently a supernatural union of love and effects a sort of mutual inexistence or perichoresis
of the soul in the Holy Ghost or the three Divine Persons respectively.(1153) Since, however,
this union of the soul with the substance of the three Divine Persons in general, and the Holy
Ghost in particular, is not a substantial and physical but only an accidental and moral union,
the regeneration of the sinner must be conceived as generation in a metaphorical sense only,
divine sonship as adoptive sonship, the deification of man as a weak imitation of the divine
homoousia, and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in the soul as a shadowy analogue of the Divine
Perichoresis.(1154)

    READINGS:—Deharbe, Die vollkommene Liebe Gottes nach dem hl.
    Thomas von Aquin, Ratisbon 1856.—Marchant, Die theologischen
    Tugenden, Ratisbon 1864.—Mazzella, De Virtutibus Infusis, 4th
    ed., Rome 1894.—G. Lahousse, S. J., De Virtutibus Theologicis,
    Louvain 1890.—S. Schiffini, S. J., Tractatus de Virtutibus
    Infusis, Freiburg 1904.—J. Kirschkamp, Der Geist des
    Katholizismus in der Lehre vom Glauben und von der Liebe,
    Paderborn 1894.—C. Weiss, S. Thomae Aquinatis de Septem Donis
    Spiritus Sancti Doctrina Proposita et Explicata, Vienna 1895.

    On the indwelling of the Holy Ghost in the souls of the just see
    A. Scholz, De Inhabitatione Spiritus Sancti, Würzburg
    1856.—*Franzelin, De Deo Trino, pp. 625 sqq., Rome
    1881.—Oberdörffer, De Inhabitatione Spiritus Sancti in Animabus
    Iustorum, Tournai 1890.—* B. Froget, O. P., De l’Inhabitation du
    S. Esprit dans les Âmes Justes d’après la Doctrine de S. Thomas
    d’Aquin, Paris 1901.—De Bellevue, L’Oeuvre du S. Esprit ou la
    Sanctification des Âmes, Paris 1901.

    On the historic development of the dogma see Schwane,
    Dogmengeschichte, 2nd ed., Vol. II, § 56-75, Freiburg 1895.

Section 3. The Properties Of Sanctifying Grace

By a property (proprium, ἴδιον) we understand a quality which, though not part of the essence
of a thing, necessarily flows from that essence by some sort of causation and is consequently
found in all individuals of the same species.(1155) A property, as such, is opposed to an accident
(accidens, συμβεβηκός), which is neither part of, nor necessarily attached to, the essence,
but may or may not be present in the individual. Thus the ability to laugh is a property of
human nature, whereas the color of the skin is an accident.

How do the properties of grace differ from its formal effects, and from its supernatural concomitants?
The formal effects of grace, as we have seen, are the elements constituting its nature, the
properties are determinations necessarily flowing from that nature, while the supernatural
concomitants are free gifts superadded by God.

According to the Protestant theory, justification is absolutely certain, equal in all men,
and incapable of being lost. The Catholic Church, on the contrary, teaches that justification
is (1) uncertain, (2) unequal, and (3) amissible. We will explain this teaching in three theses.

*Thesis I: No man knows with certainty of faith whether he is justified or not.*

This proposition is de fide.

Proof. The Tridentine Council rejected the “fiduciary faith”(1156) of Luther as “an empty heretical
confidence,”(1157) and in three distinct canons denied the properties attributed to faith by
the early Protestant dogmaticians.(1158)

a) Holy Scripture again and again warns us that we can never be sure of our salvation. St.
Paul, though himself “a vessel of election,” freely admits: “I am not conscious to myself of
any thing, yet I am not hereby justified; but he that judgeth me is the Lord,”(1159) and declares:
“I chastise my body and bring it into subjection, lest perhaps, when I have preached to others,
I myself should become a castaway.”(1160) He exhorts the faithful to work out their salvation
“with fear and trembling.”(1161)

b) The Fathers also teach the uncertainty of justification in the individual, and attribute
it to the fact that, while we know that God pardons penitent sinners, no man can be entirely
certain that he has complied with all the conditions necessary for justification.

“Our fate,” says St. Chrysostom, “is uncertain for a number of reasons, one of which is that
many of our own works are hidden from us.”(1162) St. Jerome, commenting on Eccles. IX, 1 sq.,(1163)
observes: “In the future they will know all, and all things are manifest to them, that is to
say, the knowledge of this matter will precede them when they depart this life, because then
the judgment will be pronounced, while now we are still battling, and it is now uncertain whether
those who bear adversities, bear them for the love of God, like Job, or because they hate Him,
as do many sinners.”(1164) Pope St. Gregory the Great said to a noble matron who asked him
whether she could be sure of her salvation: “You ask me something which is both useless and
difficult [to answer]; difficult, because I am unworthy to receive a revelation; useless, because
it is better that you be uncertain with regard to your sins, lest in your last hour you should
be unable to repent.”(1165)

c) We now proceed to the theological explanation of the dogma embodied in our thesis.

α) The purpose of this dogma is not, as Harnack(1166) thinks, “partly to assuage and partly
to excite the restlessness that still remains, by means of the sacraments, indulgences, liturgical
worship and ecclesiastical encouragement of mystical and monkish practices,” but to prevent
undue security and careless assurance. What the Church condemns, in accordance with Sacred
Scripture and Tradition, is the certitudo fidei, that vain confidence which leads men to feel
certain that they are in the state of grace (inanis fiducia), not the certitudo spei, i.e.
humble trust in God’s abundant mercy. “As no pious person ought to doubt of the mercy of God,
of the merit of Christ, and of the virtue and efficacy of the sacraments,” says the Tridentine
Council, “even so each one, when he regards himself and his own weakness and indisposition,
may have fear and apprehension touching his own grace; seeing that no one can know with a certainty
of faith, which cannot be subject to error, that he has obtained the grace of God.”(1167)

One needs but to apply to theology the epistemological principles and criteria furnished by
philosophy to perceive that the Catholic dogma is as reasonable as the Protestant theory is
absurd. The Protestant syllogism: “I know with a certainty of faith that the penitent sinner
who does his share, is justified through the grace of Christ; now, I, who am a penitent sinner,
know with a certainty of faith that I have done my share; therefore, I know with a certainty
of faith that I am justified,” may be formally correct, but the minor premise embodies a material
error, because no man knows with a certainty of faith that he has done his share, unless it
be specially revealed to him by God. No matter how sure I may feel of my own goodness, I have
no certainty of faith, such as that which Mary Magdalen had, or that which was vouchsafed to
the penitent thief on the cross, that I am justified. It is one of the approved rules of syllogistic
reasoning that “the conclusion must follow the weaker premiss.”(1168) Hence, in the above syllogism
the certainty cannot be of faith, but human and moral only. We do not mean to deny that God
may grant to this or that individual a certainty of faith with regard to his justification;
in fact theologians expressly teach that in such a rare and exceptional case the privileged
person would be obliged to believe in his own justification, fide divinâ.(1169)

β) Can any one, without a special revelation, be theologically certain that he is justified?
Theological certainty (certitudo theologica) is the result of a syllogism which embodies an
article of faith in one of its premises and an obvious truth of reason in the other. Ambrosius
Catharinus(1170) stands alone among Catholic theologians in holding that there are rare cases
in which men do have a theological certainty as to their justification without a private revelation.
All other writers deny the possibility: (1) because Scripture and Tradition do not countenance
the proposition; (2) because there are no criteria available for such certainty outside of
private revelation, and (3) because the Tridentine Council censured the assertion “that they
who are truly justified must needs, without any doubt whatever, settle within themselves that
they are justified.”(1171)

γ) For precisely the same reasons no man can be metaphysically certain of his own justification.
Hence there remains only moral certainty. Moral certainty admits of varying degrees. The highest
degree of moral certainty concerning justification can be had in the case of baptized infants,
though, of course, we can never be metaphysically certain even in regard to them, because there
is always room for doubt as to the intention of the minister and the validity of the matter
and form employed in the administration of the sacrament. In the case of adults, certainty
regarding justification varies in proportion to the measure in which it can be ascertained
whether one has complied with all the requirements demanded by God. However, certainty may
be so great as to exclude all reasonable doubt. We know that we have passed from death to life.
Whence do we know this? Because we love our brethren. Let no one ask another. Let each question
his own heart; if he there finds fraternal charity, let him be sure that he has passed from
death to life.”(1173) This teaching has led theologians to set up certain criteria by which
the faithful may be relieved of unreasonable anxiety and obtain some sort of assurance as to
the condition of their souls. Such criteria are: a taste for things spiritual; contempt of
earthly pleasures; zeal and perseverance in doing good; love of prayer and pious meditation;
patience in suffering and adversity; a fervent devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary; frequent
reception of the sacraments, etc.(1174)

*Thesis II: Sanctifying grace admits of degrees and therefore can be increased by good works.*

Both propositions contained in this thesis are de fide.

Proof. The Protestant contention that the grace of justification is shared in an equal measure
by all the justified, was a logical deduction from Luther’s false principle that men are justified
by faith alone through the external justice of Christ. If this were true, good works would
be superfluous, and all Christians would enjoy an equal measure of grace. Luther formally asserted
this in his sermon on the nativity of the Blessed Virgin: “All we who are Christians are equally
great and holy with the Mother of God.”(1175) The Catholic Church rejects this teaching. She
holds that justification is an intrinsic process by which the justice and holiness of Christ
becomes our own through sanctifying grace, and that consequently sanctifying grace may be present
in the soul in a greater or less degree, according to the liberality of God and the disposition
of the individual Christian, and those who are in the state of grace may augment it by good works.

Thus we read in Prov. IV, 18: “The path of the just, as a shining light, goeth forwards and
increaseth even to perfect day.”(1179) Ecclus. XVIII, 22: “Let nothing hinder thee from praying
always, and be not afraid to be justified even to death: for the reward of God continueth for
ever.”(1180) 2 Pet. IV, 7: “But to every one of us is given grace, according to the measure
of the giving of Christ.”(1183) Apoc. XXII, 11 sq.: “He that is just, let him be justified
still; and he that is holy, let him be sanctified still. Behold, I come quickly, and my reward
is with me, to render to every man according to his works.”(1184)

Such texts could easily be multiplied.

b) Tradition found definite utterance as early as the fourth century.

When Jovinian attempted to revive the Stoic theory of the absolute equality of all virtues
and vices, he met with strenuous opposition on the part of St. Jerome, who wrote a special
treatise Contra Iovinianum, in which he said: “Each of us receives grace according to the measure
of the grace of Christ (Eph. IV, 7); not as if the measure of Christ were unequal, but so much
of His grace is infused into us as we are capable of receiving.”(1185) St. Augustine teaches
that the just are as unequal as the sinners. “The saints are clad with justice (Job XXIX, 14),
some more, some less; and no one on this earth lives without sin, some more, some less: but
the best is he who has least.”(1186) But, we are told, life as such is not capable of being
increased; how then can there be an increase of spiritual life? St. Thomas answers this objection
as follows: “The natural life pertains to the substance of man, and therefore can be neither
augmented nor diminished; but in the life of grace man participates accidentaliter, and consequently
he can possess it in a larger or smaller degree.”(1187)

c) From what we have said it is easy to understand the distinction which theologians make between
justification as gratia prima and justification as gratia secunda. The latter is merely another
term for an increase of grace after justification.

α) Such an increase may be effected either ex opere operantis, that is, by good works, or ex
opere operato, through the sacraments, and is called justification (iustificatio, δικαίωσις)
partly because Sacred Scripture refers to it by that name(1188) and partly because “to become
just” (iustum fieri) and “to become more just” (iustiorem fieri) both imply true sanctification.

In this connection the question may be raised whether sanctifying grace is diminished by venial
sin. Venial sin does not destroy the state of grace and consequently cannot augment or diminish
grace. To assume that it could, would lead to the absurd conclusion that a definite number
of venial sins might eventually grow into a mortal sin, or that repeated venial sins gradually
diminish grace until finally it disappears. The first-mentioned assumption is impossible because
venial differs generically from mortal sin, and a transition from the one to the other would
be a μετάβασις εἰς ἄλλο γένος. The second assumption would entail the heretical inference that
the state of grace can be lost without mortal sin.(1189) No doubt venial sin influences the
state of grace unfavorably; but this evil influence must be conceived as indirect—by committing
venial sins man weakens his will-power, and temptation eventually grows so strong as to make
mortal sin inevitable. “He that contemneth small things, shall fall little by little.”(1190)

β) If we inquire how sanctifying grace increases in the soul, we find that the process must
be conceived as a growing intensity analogous to that of light and heat in the physical order.

Gratia prima, as we have seen in a previous chapter, is a supernatural physical quality.(1191)
Hence its increase, i.e. gratia secunda, must be an increase of physical quality. Such an increase
is called in Scholastic parlance intensio.(1192) In what does this process consist? Certain
Thomists(1193) describe it as a maior radicatio in subiecto, while the majority of theologians
hold that it is simply an additio gradus ad gradum. This latter explanation is probably the
correct one. Sanctifying grace is either capable of gradual increase, or it is not. If it is,
there is no reason why God should deny such an increase under certain conditions. If it is
not, Luther would have been right in contending that a newly baptized infant enjoys the same
measure of holiness as the Blessed Virgin Mary or the human soul of our Divine Lord. It is
impossible to imagine how grace could produce a quantitatively higher holiness by simply striking
its roots deeper into the soul.(1194)

γ) A question of greater practical importance is this: Is the increase of sanctifying grace
accompanied by a corresponding increase of the infused virtues, and vice versa.

Every increase or decrease of sanctifying grace must eo ipso entail a corresponding increase
or decrease, respectively, of theological charity. Charity is either identical with grace or
it is not.(1195) If it is, an increase of the one implies an increase of the other; if it is
not, the one cannot increase without an increase of the other, because they are inseparable
and related to each other as nature to faculty, or root to blossom. Moreover, the degree of
heavenly glory enjoyed by a soul will be commensurate with the measure of charity which it
possessed at death. Now grace and glory bear a proportional relation to each other. Consequently,
grace is augmented as charity increases, and vice versa. The same argument applies to the infused
moral virtues.

The case is different, however, with the theological virtues of faith and hope. These may continue
to exist in the soul after charity has departed, and hence are not inseparable from sanctifying
grace and charity, nor from the moral virtues. This consideration led Suarez to infer that,
as the theological virtues of faith and hope may be infused into the soul independently of
charity and before justification, they must be susceptible of increase in the course of justification
without regard to the existing state of grace and charity.(1196) This is true of the sinner.
In the justified, as Suarez himself admits, an increase of grace (or charity) probably always
entails an increase of faith and hope,(1197)—a proposition which finds strong support in the
decree of Trent which says: “This increase of justification Holy Church begs, when she prays:
‘Give unto us, O Lord, increase of faith, hope, and charity.’ ”(1198)

δ) A final question forces itself upon the enquiring mind, viz.: Is sanctifying grace capable
of an indefinite increase, or is there a limit beyond which it cannot grow? In trying to find
an answer to this question we must draw a careful distinction between the absolute and the
ordinary power of God.

There is no intrinsic contradiction in the assumption that grace can be indefinitely augmented.
True, it can never become actually infinite, as this would involve an absurdity.(1199) But
if we regard the power of God as He sees fit to exercise it in the present economy (potentia
Dei ordinata), we find that it is limited by two sublime ideals of holiness to which neither
man nor angel can attain, viz.: the overflowing measure of sanctifying grace in the human soul
of our Lord Jesus Christ(1200) and the “fulness of grace” granted to His Mother.(1201) Though
these ideals are beyond our reach, we must not be discouraged, but try to approach them as
nearly as possible.(1202)

*Thesis III: Sanctifying grace is lost by mortal sin.*

This thesis also embodies an article of faith.

Proof. Calvin asserted that neither justification nor faith can be lost by those who are predestined
to salvation, and that the unpredestined are never truly justified. Luther held that justifying
grace is lost solely through the sin of infidelity. Ezechiel says that sanctifying grace may
be irretrievably lost: “If the just man turn himself away from his justice, and do iniquity
according to all the abominations which the wicked man useth to work, shall he live? All his
justices which he hath done shall not be remembered; in the prevarication, by which he hath
prevaricated, and in his sin, which he hath committed, in them he shall die.”(1206) Our Lord
Himself admonishes His Apostles: “Watch ye and pray, that ye enter not into temptation.”(1207)
St. Paul not only warns the faithful in general terms: “He that thinketh himself to stand,
let him take heed lest he fall;”(1208) but expressly designates certain mortal sins as a bar
to Heaven: “Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor the effeminate, nor liers
with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor railers, nor extortioners, shall
possess the kingdom of God.”(1209)

b) The teaching of Tradition was brought out clearly in the fight against Jovinian.

That wily heretic claimed the authority of St. John for the assertion that the grace of Baptism
can never be lost. If grace could be lost in no other way than by unbelief, the Sacrament of
Penance would be useless.(1214)

c) In connection with this subject theologians are wont to discuss the question whether or
not the forfeiture of sanctifying grace involves the loss of its supernatural concomitants.

Theological love or charity is substantially identical with sanctifying grace, or at least
inseparable from it, and hence both are gained and lost together. This is an article of faith.
To lose sanctifying grace, therefore, is to lose theological love. On the other hand, it is
equally de fide that theological faith (habitus fidei) is not destroyed by mortal sin;(1215)
it can be lost only by the sin of unbelief.(1216) The same is true, mutatis mutandis, of theological
hope. True, the Church has not definitely declared her mind with regard to hope, but it may
be set down as her teaching that hope is not lost with grace and charity but survives like
faith.(1217) The two contrary opposites of hope are desperation and presumption, concerning
which theologians commonly hold that the former destroys hope, while the latter probably does
not. But even if hope and charity are lost, faith may remain in the soul like a solitary root,
from which, under more favorable conditions, new life is apt to spring. As regards the infused
moral virtues and the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost (and, a fortiori, His personal indwelling
in the soul),(1218) it is the unanimous teaching that these disappear with sanctifying grace
and charity, even though faith and hope survive. The reason is that these virtues and gifts
are merely supernatural adjuncts of sanctifying grace and cannot persist without it. “Accessorium
sequitur principale.”(1219)

Chapter III. The Fruits Of Justification, Or The Merit Of Good Works

The principal fruit of justification, according to the Tridentine Council,(1220) is the meritoriousness
of all good works performed in the state of sanctifying grace.

Merit (meritum), as we have explained in the first part of this treatise,(1221) is that property
of a good work which entitles the doer to a reward (praemium, merces). Condign merit supposes
an equality between service and return. It is measured by commutative justice and confers a
strict claim to a reward. Congruous merit, owing to its inadequacy and the lack of strict proportion
between service and recompense, confers no such claim except on grounds of equity.(1222)

In this treatise we are concerned with merit only in the theological sense of the term, i.e.
supernatural merit. We shall consider (1) its Existence,(1223) (2) its Requisites,(1224) and
(3) its Objects.(1225)

Section 1. The Existence Of Merit

1. HERETICAL ERRORS AND THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH.—a) The medieval Beguins and Beghards held
that man is able to attain such a perfect state of holiness here below as no longer to require
an increase of grace or good works.(1226) Luther, holding that justification consists in the
covering up of sin and the external imputation of the justice of Christ, consistently though
falsely asserted that “the just man sins in every good work,”(1227) that “a good work, no matter
how well performed, is a venial sin,”(1228) and that “every work of the just deserves damnation
and is mortally sinful, if it be considered as it really is in the judgment of God.”(1229)
Calvin rejected good works as “impurities and defilements,”(1230) which God covers with the
cloak of the merits of Jesus Christ and which He sometimes rewards with temporal blessings
but never with eternal life. Modern Protestantism has given up or at least attenuated these
harsh doctrines.(1231)

b) The Church had defined her teaching on this point centuries before the time of the “Reformers.”
Thus the Second Council of Orange declared as early as 529: “Good works, when performed, deserve
a reward; but grace, which is a free gift, precedes good works and is a necessary condition
of them.”(1232) The Fourth Lateran Council reiterated this doctrine: “Not only virgins and
those who practice continence, but the married also, who please God by having the right faith
and performing good works, deserve to obtain eternal happiness.”(1233) The Tridentine Council
goes into the matter at length in the sixteenth Chapter of its Sixth Session, where we read
inter alia: “And for this reason life eternal is to be proposed to those working well unto
the end and hoping in God, both as a grace mercifully promised to the sons of God through Jesus
Christ, and as a reward which is according to the promise of God Himself to be faithfully rendered
to their good works and merits.”(1234)

The same Council formally condemned the Lutheran position as heretical: “If anyone saith that
in every good work the just man sins at least venially, or, which is more intolerable still,
mortally, and consequently deserves eternal punishments; and that for this cause only he is
not damned that God does not impute those works unto salvation; let him be anathema.”(1235)
The positive teaching of the Church may be gathered from the following condemnation: “If anyone
saith that the just ought not, for their good works done in God, to expect and hope for eternal
recompense from God through His mercy and the merit of Jesus Christ, if so be that they persevere
to the end in well-doing and in keeping the commandments; let him be anathema.”(1236) The existence
of merit in the true and proper sense of the term is specially emphasized as follows: “If anyone
saith that ... the justified, by the good works which he performs through the grace of God
and the merit of Jesus Christ, whose living member he is, does not truly merit increase of
grace...; let him be anathema.”(1237) The quietistic errors of Michael de Molinos were condemned
by Pope Innocent XI, Nov. 20, 1687.(1238)

2. THE MERITORIOUSNESS OF GOOD WORKS DEMONSTRATED FROM SCRIPTURE AND TRADITION.—Both Holy Scripture
and Tradition employ opus bonum and meritum as reciprocal or correlative terms.

a) In the Old Testament the good deeds of the just are often declared to be meritorious in
the sight of God. Cfr. Wisd. V, 16: “But the just shall live for evermore, and their reward
is with the Lord.”(1239) Ecclus. XVIII, 22: “Be not afraid to be justified even to death, for
the reward of God continueth for ever.”(1240) The New Testament teaching culminates in the
“eight beatitudes,” each of which is accompanied by a special reward. After enumerating them
all, with the promises attached to each, our Divine Saviour significantly adds: “Be glad and
rejoice, for your reward is very great in heaven.”(1241)

St. Paul, who so strongly insists on the absolute gratuitousness of Christian grace, nevertheless
acknowledges the existence of merits to which a reward is due from God. Cfr. Rom. II, 6 sq.:
“[God] will render to every man according to his works, to them indeed who according to patience
in good work, seek glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life.”(1242) 2 Tim.

St. Ignatius of Antioch says: “Suffer me to be eaten by the beasts, through whom I can attain
to God.”(1248) St. Irenæus: “Precious should be to us the crown which we gain in battle, ...
and the more we obtain it by combat, the more precious it is.”(1249) St. Ambrose: “Is it not
evident that the reward and punishment of merits endure after death?”(1250) St. Augustine:
“Eternal life contains the whole reward in the promise of which we rejoice; nor can the reward
precede desert, nor be given to a man before he is worthy of it. What can be more unjust than
this, and what is more just than God? We should not then demand the reward before we deserve
to get it.”(1251) And again: “As death is given, so to speak, to reward the merit of sin, so
eternal life is given to reward the merit of justice, ... and hence it is also called reward
in many Scriptural passages.”(1252)

c) Theologically the meritoriousness of good works is based on the providence of God. There
must be some sort of sanction to enforce the divine laws,—not only the natural law (lex naturae),
but, a fortiori, the “law of grace” (lex gratiae), as the supernatural order is so much more
important than the natural.

α) By the good works which he performs in the state of sanctifying grace, and with the aid
of actual graces (in gratia et ex gratia), man acquires a twofold merit,—he helps to execute
the divine plan of governance in regard to his fellow-creatures and assists in furthering the
external glory of God, which is the ultimate purpose of creation. For this he is entitled to
a double reward, just as the sinner is deserving of a double punishment for the injury he does
to his fellowmen and the dishonor he reflects upon his Creator.(1253)

It is objected against this argument that our supernatural merits, being finite, are in no
proportion to the possession and enjoyment of an Infinite Good. This objection vanishes in
the light of the following considerations: (1) Sanctifying grace is a kind of deificatio, which
raises man above himself to a quasi-divine dignity that colors all his actions.(1254) (2) The
ability of the justified to perform supernaturally good works is based entirely upon the infinite
merits of Jesus Christ.(1255) (3) The Infinite Good is possessed by the creature, not in an
infinite but in a merely finite manner. Hence there is a due proportion between good works
and merit.(1256)

One difficulty still remains, viz.: By what title do infants who die in the state of baptismal
innocence attain to eternal beatitude, which they have been unable to merit? We answer: The
just man has two distinct claims to Heaven, one as a child of God,(1257) and another as a laborer
in His vineyard. Baptized infants who have not yet arrived at the use of reason, possess only
the first claim, while adult Christians who lead a good life enjoy also the titulus mercedis
and consequently are entitled to a richer reward. Both claims ultimately rest on the merits
of Jesus Christ.(1258)

β) What we have said is sufficient to disprove the groundless assertion that the Catholic doctrine
concerning the meritoriousness of good works derogates from the merits of Christ and fosters
“self-righteousness.” Would it not be far more derogatory to the honor of our Saviour to assume
that He failed to obtain for those for whom He suffered and died, a limited capacity for gaining
merits? Does it in any way impair the dignity of God as the causa prima to assume that He communicates
to His creatures a limited causality, by which they are enabled to act as true causae secundae,
instead of being mere causae occasionales, as the Occasionalists assert?(1259) As regards the
other charge, no true Catholic is guilty of “self-righteousness” because he regards his good
works as “fruits of justification,” owing purely to grace. The “self-righteousness” of which
Luther speaks is incompatible with the virtue of humility. The faithful Christian, according
to St. Paul, may safely rejoice over his merits, because the uncertainty of justification and
the consciousness that his good works are but limited at best, are a sufficient protection
against self-righteousness and presumption.(1260)

3. EXPLANATION OF THE CATHOLIC DOCTRINE.—Though the Tridentine Council merely defined in general
terms that all good works performed in the state of sanctifying grace are meritorious,(1261)
it is theologically certain that the merit due to good works is the merit of condignity.

a) According to Pallavicini(1262) the Fathers of Trent without exception were convinced that
the merit inherent in good works is a meritum de condigno, based upon divine justice, and they
purposely employed the term vere to exclude that quasi-merit which in the technical terminology
of the Schools is called meritum de congruo.(1263) They refrained from expressly employing
the term meritum de condigno, because meritum verum is a plain and adequate term, and for this
additional reason that they wished to avoid certain theological controversies regarding the
nature of the meritum de condigno and its requisites.(1264)

b) We need not enter into these controversies to understand that condign merit supposes an
equality between service and reward. The proposition can be proved from Sacred Scripture by
an indirect argument. The meritum de condigno is based on a strict claim of justice, not on
mere equity. Now the Bible leaves no doubt that God meant to make himself a debtor to man in
strict justice. Cfr. Heb. VI, 10: “For God is not unjust, that he should forget your work.”(1265)
2 Tim. IV, 8: “... there is laid up for me a crown of justice, which the Lord the just judge
will render to me in that day: and not only to me, but to them also that love his coming.”(1266)
James I, 12: “Blessed is the man that endureth temptation; for when he hath been proved, he
shall receive the crown of life, which God hath promised to them that love him.”(1267) That
there must be a condignitas between service and reward is clearly apparent from such texts
as these:—Wis. III, 5: “... God hath tried them and found them worthy of himself.”(1268) 2
Thess. I, 4 sq.: “... in all your persecutions and tribulations, which you endure, for an example
[as a token] of the just judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of
God, for which also you suffer.”(1269) Apoc. True, St. Thomas, to whom we are indebted for
this simile,(1273) in another part of the Summa(1274) defends the theological axiom: “Deus
punit circa condignum et remunerat ultra condignum,” but he does not mean to deny the equality
between service and reward, but merely to exalt the generosity that prompts God to bestow upon
creatures what is due to them more bountifully than they deserve. Cfr. The Requisites Of Merit

As we are dealing with the “fruits of justification,” it becomes necessary to ascertain the
requisites or conditions of true merit. There are seven such; four have reference to the meritorious
work itself, two to the agent who performs it, and one to God who gives the reward.

1. REQUISITES OF MERIT ON THE PART OF THE MERITORIOUS WORK.—A work, to be meritorious, must
be morally good, free, performed with the assistance of actual grace, and inspired by a supernatural
motive.

a) As every evil deed implies demerit and is deserving of punishment, so the notion of merit
supposes a morally good work (opus honestum).

Cfr. Eph. VI, 8: “Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man shall do, the same shall he receive
from the Lord.”(1276) 2 Cor. V, 10: “We must all be manifested before the judgment-seat of
Christ, that every one may receive the proper things of the body, according as he hath done,
whether it be good or evil.”(1277) There are no morally indifferent works in individuo, i.e.
practically; and if there were, they could be neither meritorious nor demeritorious, but would
become meritorious in proportion as they are made morally good by means of a “good intention.”
It would be absolutely wrong to ascribe merit only to the more perfect works of supererogation
(opera supererogatoria), such as the vow of perpetual chastity, excluding all works of mere
obligation, such as the faithful observance of the commandments. Being morally good, the works
of obligation are also meritorious, because goodness and meritoriousness are correlative terms.(1278)
Whether the mere omission of an evil act is in itself meritorious, is doubtful.(1279) But most
theologians are agreed in holding that the external work, as such, adds no merit to the internal
act, except in so far as it reacts on the will and sustains and intensifies its operation.
This and similar questions properly belong to moral theology.

b) The second requisite of merit is moral liberty (libertas indifferens ad actum), that is
to say, freedom from both external and internal compulsion. This has been dogmatically defined
against Jansenius.(1280)

That there can be no merit without liberty is clearly inculcated by Sacred Scripture. Cfr.
1 Cor. IX, 17: “For if I do this willingly, I have a reward.”(1281) Matth. XIX, 17: “If thou
wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.”(1282) “Where there is compulsion,” says St. Jerome,
“there is neither a crown nor damnation.”(1283) The morality of an act depends entirely on
its being an actus humanus. Now no act is truly “human” unless it be freely performed. Consequently,
freedom of choice is an indispensable condition of moral goodness and therefore also of merit.

What kind of liberty is necessary to enable the will to acquire merit? Theologians answer by
saying that it is libertas contradictionis sive exercitii. If I do a good deed which I am free
to do or not to do, I perform a morally good and therefore meritorious work. As regards the
libertas specificationis, (that freedom by which a person may act thus or otherwise, e.g. give
alms to one applicant in preference to another, or mortify himself in this or that particular
manner), there can be no doubt that, whatever the choice made, the action is always good and
meritorious. However, theologians have excogitated a hypothetical case in which an action may
be physically free without being meritorious. It is when one is compelled to do a certain thing
and is free only in so far as he is able to choose between two actions exactly equal in moral
worth. This would be the case, for instance, if he had to pay a debt of ten dollars and were
left free to pay it either in coin or in currency. The more common opinion is that in a case
of this kind there would be a lack of that liberty which is necessary to render an act morally
good and therefore meritorious.(1284)

c) The third requisite of merit is actual grace. Its necessity is evident from the fact that,
to be meritorious, an act must be supernatural and consequently cannot be performed without
the aid of prevenient and coöperating grace.(1285)

d) Merit further requires a supernatural motive, for the reason that every good work must be
supernatural, both as regards object and circumstances (ex obiecto et circumstantiis), and
the end for which it is performed (ex fine). In determining the necessary qualities of this
motive, however, theologians differ widely.

α) A considerable number, mostly of the Thomist persuasion, demand the motive of theological
charity, and consequently regard the state of charity (caritas habitualis sive status caritatis
et gratiae) as essential for the meritoriousness of all good works performed in the state of
grace, even if they are performed from some other, truly supernatural though inferior motive,
such as obedience, the fear of God, etc. This rigorous school is constrained to raise the question
whether every single good work, to be supernaturally meritorious, must proceed from an act
of divine charity (toties quoties), or whether the virtual influence of one act is sufficient
to endow a series of subsequent acts with meritoriousness. Only a few Thomist theologians(1286)
defend the first-mentioned theory. The majority(1287) hold that the influxus virtualis caritatis
is sufficient. This view is vigorously defended by Cardinal Bellarmine, who says: “It is not
enough to make a general good intention at the beginning of a year, or month, or day, by which
all future actions are referred to God; but it is necessary to refer each particular act to
God before it is performed.”(1288) The advocates of this theory base their opinion on certain
Scriptural and Patristic texts, and especially on St. Thomas, whose teaching they misunderstand.(1289)

The dogmatic question whether good works can be meritorious without being inspired by supernatural
charity, has nothing to do with the moral problem whether there is an obligation to make an
act of charity from time to time, except in so far as habitual charity,—i.e. the state of charity,
which is always required for merit, nay even for the preservation of sanctifying grace,—cannot
be permanently sustained unless renewed from time to time and effectuated by a fresh act of
that virtue.(1290) St. Alphonsus teaches that every man is obliged to make an act of charity
at least once a month, but he is contradicted by other eminent moralists. In practice it is
well to insist on frequent acts of charity because such acts not only confirm and preserve
the state of grace, but render our good works incomparably more meritorious in the sight of
God. Hence, too, the importance of making a “good intention” every morning before beginning
the day’s work.(1291)

β) There is a second group of very eminent theologians, including Suarez,(1292) Vasquez,(1293)
De Lugo, and Ballerini, who hold that, to be meritorious, the good works of a just man, who
has habitual charity, need only conform to the divine law, no special motive being required.
These writers base their teaching on the Tridentine decree which says: “For this is that crown
of justice which the Apostle declared was, after his fight and course, laid up for him, to
be rendered to him by the Just Judge, and not only to him, but also to all that love His coming.
2), we must believe that nothing further is wanting to the justified to prevent their being
accounted to have, by those very works which have been done in God, fully satisfied the divine
law according to the state of this life, and to have truly merited eternal life, to be obtained
also in its [due] time, if so be, however, that they depart in grace.”(1294) This teaching
is in harmony with Scripture. The Bible nowhere requires an act of charity to make good works
meritorious for Heaven. In the “eight beatitudes”(1295) our Lord Himself promises eternal glory
for works which are not all works of charity, nor even dictated by charity, either formal or
virtual. When He was asked: “Master, what good shall I do that I may have life everlasting?”(1296)
he did not answer with Bellarmine: “Steep all thy works in the motive of charity,” but declared:
“If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.”(1297) And when requested to specify,
He simply cited the ordinary precepts of the Decalogue.(1298) We also know that at the Last
Judgment He will receive the elect into the “kingdom of His Father” solely in consideration
of the works of mercy they have done.(1299)

Theological reasoning lends its support to this view. If good works performed without the motive
of charity were not supernaturally meritorious, this would be attributable to one of three
causes. Either the just would sin by doing good; or good works performed without charity would
not be deserving of eternal beatitude; or, finally, there would be no strict equality between
service and reward. All three of these suppositions are untenable. The first would lead to
Bajanism or Jansenism.(1300) The second and third overlook the fact that the requisite proportion
(condignitas) between service and reward is furnished by sanctifying grace or habitual charity,
which, as deificatio, adoptive sonship, and union with the Holy Ghost, actually supplies that
for which the motivum caritatis is demanded.

We might ask the advocates of the more rigorous opinion, whence the act of charity which they
demand for every meritorious work, derives its peculiar proportionality or condignitas with
the beatific vision. Surely not from itself, because as an act it is merely primus inter pares,
without in any essential respect excelling other motives. There is no alternative but to attribute
it to that quasi-divine dignity which is imparted to the just man and his works by sanctifying
grace.

For these reasons present-day theology regards the second theory as sufficiently well established
and the faithful are largely guided by it in practice.(1301)

2. REQUISITES OF MERIT ON THE PART OF THE AGENT WHO MERITS.—The agent who merits must be a
wayfarer and in the state of sanctifying grace.

a) The wayfaring state (status viae) is merely another name for life on earth. Death as the
natural, though not essentially necessary limit of life, closes the time of meriting. Nothing
is more clearly taught in Holy Scripture than that we must sow in this world if we desire to
reap in the next.(1302)

b) The second requisite is the state of sanctifying grace. Only the just can be “sons of God”
and “heirs of heaven.”(1303) Cfr. John XV, 4: “As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless
it abide in the vine, so neither can you, unless you abide in me.”(1304) Rom. This question
can be easily solved on the theological principle that the supernatural dignity of the soul
increases in proportion to its growth in sanctifying grace. Vasquez holds that, other things
being equal, one who is holier gains no greater merit by performing a given work than one who
is less holy.(1306) All other theologians(1307) hold with St. Thomas(1308) that the meritoriousness
of a good deed is larger in proportion to the godlike dignity of the agent, which in turn is
measured by the degree of sanctifying grace in the soul. This explains why God, in consideration
of the greater holiness of some saints who are especially dear to Him, often deigns through
their intercession to grant favors which He refuses to others.(1309)

3. THE REQUISITES OF MERIT ON THE PART OF GOD.—Merit requires but one thing on the part of
God, viz.: that He accept the good work in actu secundo as deserving of reward. Since, however,
theologians are not agreed on this point, we are dealing merely with a more or less well-founded
opinion.

Though the good works of the just derive a special intrinsic value from the godlike dignity
of adoptive sonship, and, consequently, in actu primo, are truly meritorious prior to and apart
from their acceptance by God, yet human service and divine remuneration are separated by such
a wide gulf that, in order to make a good deed meritorious in actu secundo, the divine acceptance
and promise of reward must be expressly superadded.

In regard to the relation between service and reward Catholic theologians are divided into
three schools.

The Scotists(1310) hold that the condignitas of a good work rests entirely on God’s gratuitous
promise and free acceptance, without which even the most heroic act would be utterly devoid
of merit, whereas with it even naturally good works may become meritorious. This rather shallow
theory almost completely loses sight of the godlike dignity peculiar to the just in their capacity
of “adopted children of God” and “temples of the Holy Ghost,” and is unable to account for
such important Biblical terms as “crown of justice,” “prize of victory,” “just judge,” etc.

Suarez and his school contend that there is such a perfectly balanced equality between merit
and reward that God is obliged in strict justice (ex obligatione iustitiae), prior to and apart
from any formal act of acceptance or promise on His part, to reward good works by the beatific
vision. This view is scarcely tenable because there is no common basis on which to construe
a relation of strict justice between the Creator and His creatures,(1311) and moreover St.
Paul expressly teaches that “The sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with
the glory to come.”(1312)

Hence we prefer to hold with Lessius,(1313) Vasquez,(1314) and De Lugo(1315) that the condignitas
or equality existing between merit and reward, owes its origin both to the intrinsic value
of the good work itself and to the free acceptance and gratuitous promise of God. This solution
duly respects the intrinsic value of merit in actu primo, without derogating from the sublime
dignity of God, who rewards good works not because He is obliged to do so by the merits of
a mere creature, but solely because He is bound by His own truthfulness and fidelity. Thus
God’s justice towards His creatures is placed upon a free basis, and there is no violation
of justice (iniuria) on His part. “From the fact that our actions have no merit except on the
supposition that God so ordained,” says St. Thomas, “it does not follow that God is simply
our debtor; He is His own debtor, i.e. He owes it to Himself to see that His commands are obeyed.”(1316)
This teaching can be proved from Sacred Scripture. Cfr. James I, 12: “He shall receive the
crown of life, which God hath promised to them that love him.”(1317) It is reechoed by St.
Augustine: “God is made our debtor, not by receiving anything from us, but because it pleased
Him to promise us something. For it is in a different sense that we say to a man: You are indebted
to me because I have given you something, and: You owe this to me because you have promised
it. To God we never say: Give back to me because I have given to Thee. What have we given to
God, since it is from Him that we have received whatever we are and whatever good we possess?
The Objects Of Merit

After defining the existence of merit the Tridentine Council enumerates its objects as follows:
“If anyone saith that the justified, by the good works which he performs, ... does not truly
merit increase of grace, eternal life, and the attainment of that eternal life,—if it be so,
however, that he depart in grace,—and also an increase of glory: let him be anathema.”(1320)
Hence merit calls for a threefold reward: (1) an increase of sanctifying grace; (2) heavenly
glory; and (3) an increase of that glory. The expression “vere mereri” shows that all three
of these objects can be merited in the true and strict sense of the term (de condigno). This
is, however, no more than a theologically certain conclusion.

1. INCREASE OF SANCTIFYING GRACE.—The first grace of justification (gratia prima) can never
be merited;(1321) hence the meaning of the above-quoted conciliar definition is that it can
be increased by good works. This increase is technically called gratia secunda. All Scriptural
texts which assert that sanctifying grace is unequal in different individuals, also prove that
it can be increased or augmented by the performance of meritorious works.(1322)

a) No adult person can merit the first grace of assistance (gratia prima actualis), nor any
one of the series of actual graces which follow it, and by which justification ultimately comes
to pass. They are all purely gratuitous. Similarly, too, the first grace of justification (gratia
prima habitualis) cannot be strictly merited by the sinner preparing for justification. This
is the express teaching of Trent: “But we are therefore said to be justified freely, because
that none of those things which precede justification—whether faith or works—merit the grace
itself of justification; for, if it be a grace, it is not now by works; otherwise, as the same
Apostle says, grace is no more grace.”(1323) To deny this would not only imperil the dogma
of the gratuity of grace (because if the first grace given before active justification could
be strictly merited, this would necessarily involve the gratia prima actualis), but it would
also start a vicious circle (because the gratia prima habitualis is an indispensable condition
of merit). This explains why St. Paul and St. Augustine again and again insist on the gratuity
both of the first grace of assistance and the grace of justification proper.(1324) “This grace
of Christ,” says St. Augustine, “without which neither infants nor adults can be saved, is
not bestowed for any merits, but is given freely, on account of which it is also called grace.
‘Being justified,’ says the Apostle, ‘freely through His blood.’ ”(1325)

In the light of this teaching it is easy to decide the question, raised by Vasquez, whether
perfect contrition justifies the sinner merely per modum dispositionis or per modum causae
formalis. Both contrition and charity, be they perfect or imperfect, are essentially acts that
dispose the soul for justification.(1326) Hence, no matter how perfect, neither is capable
of effecting justification itself by way of merit (merendo), nay, of entering even partially,
as Vasquez would have it, into the formal cause of justification, because, according to the
Tridentine Council, sanctifying grace and not perfect contrition is the unica causa formalis
of justification.(1327)

b) In connection with the dogma just explained theologians discuss the question whether a just
man may strictly (de condigno) merit the actual graces which God bestows on him. We must carefully
distinguish between merely sufficient and efficacious graces. Theologians commonly hold(1328)
that merely sufficient graces may be merited de condigno, not so efficacious graces, because
the right to efficacious graces would necessarily include a strict right to final perseverance
(donum perseverantiae), which lies outside the sphere of condign merit. Assuming that the justified
could by good works strictly merit the prima gratia efficax (an impossible hypothesis, because
merit presupposes efficacious grace), this would involve a similar claim to a second, third,
fourth grace—and ultimately to the final grace of perseverance, which, in matter of fact, no
man can merit. Not even heroic acts of virtue give a strict right to infallibly efficacious
graces, or to final perseverance. Even the greatest saint is obliged to watch, pray, and tremble,
lest he lapse from righteousness.(1329) For this reason the Tridentine Council mentions neither
final perseverance nor efficacious graces among the objects of merit.(1330)

2. ETERNAL LIFE OR HEAVENLY GLORY.—The second object of merit is eternal life. Why the distinction
between “eternal life” and the “attainment of eternal life”? Does this imply a twofold reward,
and consequently a twofold object of merit? Theologians deny that such was the intention of
the Council, because the right to a reward evidently coincides with the right to the payment
of the same. An unattainable eternal life would be a chimera.(1334) Nevertheless, the distinction
is not superfluous, since the attainment of eternal life does not coincide with the gaining
of merit but must be put off until death, and even then depends upon the condition of the soul:
“si tamen in gratia decesserit” (provided he depart in grace). With this last condition the
holy Synod also wished to inculcate the salutary truth that the loss of sanctifying grace ipso
facto entails the forfeiture of all previously acquired merits. Even the greatest saint, were
he to die in the state of mortal sin, would enter eternity with empty hands and as an enemy
of God. All his former merits would be cancelled. To revive them would require a new justification.(1335)

b) A close analysis of the Tridentine canon under review gives rise to another difficulty.
Can the gloria prima be merited? In defining the gratia secunda as an object of strict merit,
the Council expressly excludes the gratia prima. It makes no such distinction in regard to
glory, but names both “eternal life” (gloria prima) and “increase of glory” (gloria secunda)
as objects of merit. This naturally suggests the query: Why and to what extent can the just
man merit the gloria prima, seeing that he is unable to merit the gratia prima? Some theologians(1336)
contend that the justified are entitled to the gloria prima only as a heritage (titulo haereditatis),
never as a reward (titulo mercedis). Because of its intimate causal connection with the gratia
prima, which is beyond the reach of merit, the gloria prima, they argue, cannot be regarded
as an object of merit except on the assumption that the merits which precede justification
confer a claim to the gloria prima. This assumption is false, because without sanctifying grace
no condign merits can be acquired.(1337) In spite of this difficulty, however, most theologians(1338)
hold that, unlike the gratia prima, the gloria prima may under certain conditions be an object
of strict merit. The main reason is that, as the state of glory is not a necessary requisite
of the meritoriousness of good works, while the state of grace is, the former may positis ponendis
be an effect of the meritum de congruo, though the latter may not. A mere statement of the
problem shows that it cannot be satisfactorily solved unless we distinguish between and enter
into a detailed examination of two distinct hypotheses. It is generally agreed that infants
dying in the state of baptismal grace owe that grace, and the state of glory which they enjoy
in Heaven, solely to God’s mercy and have no claim to beatitude other than that of heredity
(titulus hereditatis). Adults who preserve their baptismal innocence until death, manifestly
cannot merit the gloria prima by their good works, because they already possess a legal title
to it through Baptism.(1339) It follows that their good works increase, but do not merit, the
gloria prima, to which these souls are already entitled titulo haereditatis. The case is quite
different with catechumens and Christians guilty of mortal sin, who are justified by an act
of perfect contrition before the reception of Baptism or the Sacrament of Penance. Of them
it may be said, without fear of contradiction, that they merit for themselves de condigno,
not indeed the first grace of justification, but the gloria prima, because perfect contrition,
being an opus operans, at the very moment of its infusion becomes an opus meritorium entitled
to eternal glory.(1340) As regards the great majority of adult Catholics who, because of defective
preparation, never get beyond imperfect contrition (attritio), and therefore are not justified
until they actually receive the Sacrament, it is certain that they owe whatever grace they
possess and whatever glory they have a claim to, entirely to the opus operatum of the Sacrament.(1341)

3. INCREASE OF HEAVENLY GLORY.—The third object of merit, according to the Tridentine Council,
is “increase of glory.” This must evidently correspond to an increase of grace, which in its
turn is conditioned upon the performance of additional good works. That there is a causal connection
between meritorious works performed on earth and the glory enjoyed in Heaven is clearly taught
by Holy Scripture. Cfr. Matth. XVI, 27: “For the Son of man shall ... render to every man according
to his works.”(1342) 1 Cor. III, 8: “And every man shall receive his own reward, according
to his own labor.”(1343) A further argument may be derived from the unequal apportionment of
glory to the elect in Heaven.(1344) This inequality is based on inequality of grace, which
in turn is owing to the fact that grace can be augmented by good works. Consequently, the inequality
of glory depends ultimately on good works.(1345)

4. NOTE ON THE MERITUM DE CONGRUO.—Congruous, as distinguished from condign merit, gives no
real claim to a reward, but only a quasi-claim based on equity (ex quadam aequitate, congruentia,
decentia).

Hence congruous merit and condign merit are not species of the same genus, but merely analogous
terms. Because of the ambiguity of the word “equity” Dominicus Soto, Becanus, and a few other
Scholastics rejected the use of the term meritum de congruo in theology. But this was a mistake.
The Fathers engaged in the Semipelagian controversy, notably St. Augustine,(1346) did not assert
that the justifying faith of the sinner is entirely without merit. The requisites of congruous
merit are identical with those of condign merit(1347) in all respects except one,—the meritum
de congruo does not require the state of grace.

a) According to the common opinion, from which but few theologians dissent,(1348) a Christian
in the state of mortal sin can, from the moment he begins to coöperate with supernatural grace,
merit de congruo by good works, and obtain by prayer the dispositions necessary for justification,
and ultimately justification itself.

“Prayer relies on mercy,” says St. Thomas, “condign merit on justice. And therefore man obtains
from the divine mercy many things by prayer which he does not merit in strict justice.”(1349)
This teaching is based partly on Holy Scripture and partly on the writings of St. Augustine,
and is confirmed by certain utterances of the Council of Trent. By conscientiously preparing
himself with the aid of actual grace, the sinner probably merits an additional claim (in equity)
to justification. Cfr. Ps. L, 19: “A sacrifice to God is an afflicted spirit: a contrite and
humbled heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.”(1350) Dan. Nor is that faith entirely unmeritorious
by which the publican was moved to say: ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner,’ and then went away
justified through the merit of faithful humility.”(1352)

b) By good works the just may merit for themselves, not in strict justice (de condigno), but
as a matter of equity (de congruo), final perseverance, conversion from mortal sin, spiritual
favors for others, and also such temporal blessings as may be conducive to eternal salvation.

α) It is a theologically certain conclusion, accepted by all theologians without exception,
that the grace of final perseverance (donum perseverantiae) cannot be merited in the strict
sense (de condigno). Most authors hold, however, that it can be merited de congruo. This meritum
is technically called meritum de congruo fallibili. Those who deny that it can be merited at
all, admit that it can be infallibly obtained by fervent and unremitting prayer.(1353)

β) It is impossible to answer with anything like certainty the question whether the just man
is able to merit for himself in advance the grace of conversion against the eventuality of
a future lapse into mortal sin. Following the lead of Albertus Magnus, St. Thomas takes a negative
view,(1354) on the ground that mortal sin interrupts the state of grace and annihilates all
former merits. In another passage of his writings, however, the Angelic Doctor says: “There
are two kinds of merit, one based on justice, and this is called condign; and another based
solely upon mercy, and this is called congruous. Of the latter St. Paul says that it is just,
i.e. congruous, that a man who has performed many good works should merit.... And in this wise
God does not forget our work and love.”(1355) Scotus,(1356) Bonaventure,(1357) and Suarez(1358)
regard this as “a pious and probable opinion,” well supported by Holy Scripture. Such a favor
would be, for example, the justification of a sinner without the medium of grace, or of a child
without the agency of Baptism. An unreasonable petition deserves no consideration, even if
made by a friend. What may be obtained by the merit of good works may be even more effectively
obtained by prayer for others. The Apostle St. James teaches: “Pray for one another that you
may be saved; for the continual prayer of a just man availeth much.”(1365) This consoling truth
is confirmed by the dogma of the Communion of Saints, by many illustrious examples from the
Bible(1366) and ecclesiastical history,(1367) and by the traditional practice of the Church
in praying God to give strength and perseverance to the faithful and the grace of conversion
to the heathen and the sinner.(1368)

δ) A final question remains to be answered: Can the just congruously merit
such temporal blessings as good health, a comfortable living, and success
in business? They can, but only in so far as these favors are conducive to
eternal salvation; for otherwise they would not be graces. 114, art. 1
    sqq.—Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 8, art. 1-5.—*Bellarmine, De
    Iustificatione, V, 1-22.—*Suarez, Opusc. de Divina
    Iustitia.—IDEM, De Gratia, l. XII, cap. (On merit in general see M. Cronin, The
    Science of Ethics, Vol.

    On the Protestant idea of the fruits of justification see Möhler,
    Symbolik, § 21 sqq. (English edition, pp. 157 sqq.).

INDEX

A

Acceptance of good works by God, 419 sqq.

Actual Grace, 3 sqq.;
  Its nature, 5 sqq.;
  Its relation to habitual Grace, 14 sqq.;
  Definition of, 15;
  Its two-fold causality, 15 sqq.;
  Division of, 19 sqq.;
  Properties of, 49 sqq.;
  Necessity of, 50 sqq.;
  Gratuity of, 131 sqq.;
  Universality of, 152 sqq.;
  Its relation to free-will, 222 sqq.;
  As a requisite of supernatural merit, 413 sqq.

Actus humanus, 412.

Adoption, 357.

Adoptive sonship, 155, 356 sqq.

Adults, all receive sufficient grace, 167 sqq.

Affectus credulitatis, 105.

Albertus Magnus, 206, 432.

Alexander VIII, 179 sq.

Alexander of Hales, 206.

Aloysius, St., 211.

Alphonsus, St., 415.

Alvarez, 30, 216, 242, 243.

Ambrose, St., 69, 102, 158, 209, 319, 349, 404.

Amor affectivus et effectivus, 68.

Amsdorf, 291.

Anabaptists, 322.

Aquaviva, 260, 262.

Aristotle, 26, 31, 333, 353.

Arnauld, 180.

Athanasius, St., 341 sq., 373, 374.

Attributes, Divine, 344 sq.

“Auctorem Fidei,” Bull, 74 sq.

Augustine, St., 7, 8, 9, 17, 20, 22, 23, 24 sq., 27, 29, 31, 33, 34, 36,
            37, 39, 42, 43, 47, 56, 59 sqq., 66, 70, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81,
            83, 84, 85, 89, 91, 92, 97, 98, 100, 102, 103, 105, 107, 108
            sq., 112, 118 sq., 126, 127, 138, 140, 141, 144, 146, 159
            sqq., 171, 174, 177, 188, 189 sq., 191 sq., 194, 197, 203 sq.,
            210, 215, 228 sqq., 249, 252, 253, 254, 259, 262, 264, 289,
            308, 319 sq., 337 sq., 339, 342, 343, 350, 368, 373 sq., 375,
            383, 387, 394, 404, 421, 424 sq., 430, 431.

Augustinianism, 147, 200, 232 sqq.

B

Baius and Bajanism, 55, 56, 60, 61, 62, 67, 70, 74 sqq., 147, 417.

Ballerini, 415.

Bañez, 232 sqq., 246, 255.

Baptism, 163 sqq., 279, 306, 308 sq., 314, 315, 318, 319, 330 sq., 394,
            428, 434.

Barnabas, Epistle of, 318.

Basil, St., 346, 349, 373.

Beatitudes, 402, 416.

Beauty, Supernatural, an effect of sanctifying grace, 349 sqq.

Becanus, 206.

Beghards, 399.

Beguins, 399.

Bellarmine, 163, 203, 210, 260, 263, 319, 330, 334, 337, 414.

Benedict XIV, 249.

Bernard, St., 37, 230.

Berti, 249.

Beza, 214.

Biel, Gabriel, 63, 211.

Billuart, 31, 211, 216, 238, 242.

Bonaventure, St., 210, 365, 433.

Boniface II, 99.

Book of Life, The, 192 sq.

Book of Torgau, 292.

Butzer, 292, 322.

C

Cæsarius of Arles, St., 99.

Cajetan, 165.

Calvin and Calvinism, 44, 153, 156, 206, 212, 213, 214, 218, 221, 223 sq.,
            228, 285, 302, 310, 392, 399.

Camerarius, 204.

Cano, Melchior, 363.

Capacity for grace, 133 sqq., 145 sqq.

Capacity of nature, 50 sqq.

Carthage, Councils of, 25, 28, 85, 116.

Cassian, John, 97, 142.

Castelein, 195.

Catharinus, 204, 211, 382.

Causality of Grace, 15 sqq.

Celestine I, St., 89, 90, 99, 104.

Celestius, 83, 85, 86.

Cercià, 203.

Certainty regarding justification, 379 sqq.

Charismata, 13.

Charity, 29, 56, 60, 67 sqq., 78, 336 sqq., 352, 363 sqq., 390, 395, 413
            sqq., 417.

Children, see Infants.

Christ, The Grace of, 10, 70, 226.

Chrysostom, St., 91, 102 sqq., 141, 171, 178, 181, 209, 318, 349, 380.

Clement of Alexandria, 308.

Clement of Rome, 181.

Clement V, 331.

Clement VIII, 255, 261.

Clement XI, 74, 180.

Cogitatio congrua, 69 sqq., 94.

Concupiscence, 64, 120.

Condignitas (equality) between merit and reward, 417 sqq.

Condign Merit, 132 sq., 397 sq., 407 sqq.

Congregatio de Auxiliis, 255, 261.

Congruism, 261 sqq.

Congruous Grace, 262 sqq.

Congruous Merit, 132, 397, 407 sqq., 430 sqq.

Conversion, 174 sqq., 297, 432 sq.

Coöperating Grace, 32 sqq.

Cyprian, St., 102, 126.

Cyril of Alexandria, St., 349, 360, 373.

D

D’Argentré, 198.

Definition of Grace, 5 sqq.

Deharbe, 328.

Deification of man, 341 sq., 405.

Delectatio victrix, 27, 225, 249 sqq.

De Lemos, 216, 236.

De Lugo, 72, 363, 415, 420.

Despair, 179.

“De Vocatione Omnium Gentium,” 170, 182.

Diospolis, Council of, 8, 85, 136, 141.

Dordrecht, Synod of, 213.

Dorner, 293.

Durandus, 63.

E

Eck, Johann, 132.

Efficacious Grace, 41 sqq.

Efficacy, Threefold, 265 sq.

Elect, Number of the, 194 sq.

Ephesus, Ecumenical Council of, 86.

Ephrem, St., 109.

Estius, 216.

Eternal life, 426 sqq.

Eucharist, The Holy, 360.

External and Internal Grace, 11 sqq.

F

Facienti quod est in se Deus non denegat gratiam, 147 sqq.

Faith, 62, 73, 100 sqq., 272, 274 sqq., 298 sqq., 363 sq., 390 sq., 395.

Fides explicita—implicita, 184 sqq., 279.

Fiduciary faith, 274 sqq., 310 sq.

Filiatio adoptiva, 110.

Final perseverance, see Perseverance.

Flacius, 291.

Florence, Council of, 164.

Fonseca, 257.

Francis de Sales, St., 207, 256.

Franzelin, 203.

Frassen, 206.

Freedom a requisite of merit, 411 sqq.

Free-will, 32 sqq.;
  How Grace coöperates with, 40 sq.;
  Its relation to Grace, 222 sqq.

Friendship, 353.

Friendship of God, an effect of sanctifying grace, 351 sqq.

Fulgentius, St., 23, 182, 215, 278.

G

Gazzaniga, 216, 236.

Gelasius, Pope, 170.

Gifts of the Holy Ghost, 369 sq.

Glory, 426 sqq.

Glossner, 149.

God, The Grace of, 10.

Godts, 195.

Gomarus, 213.

Gonet, 204 sq., 216, 218, 219 sq., 345.

Good intention, 411, 414.

Good works, Merit of, 397 sqq.

Gotti, 30, 185, 216.

Gottschalk, 212.

Goudin, 216.

Grace of justification, 313.

Granderath, 361.

Gratia antecedens—concomitans, 35.

Gratia congrua—incongrua, 262 sqq.

Gratia efficax ab extrinseco sive per accidens, 255 sqq., 268.

Gratia efficax ab intrinseco sive per se, 232 sqq., 267, 268.

Gratia est in nobis, sed sine nobis, 37.

Gratia gratis data, 12 sqq.

Gratia gratum faciens, 12 sqq.

Gratia inspirationis, 23.

Gratia magna, 252 sq.

Gratia orationis, 43.

Gratia parva (of Jansenius) 44, 252 sq.

Gratia prima, 136 sqq., 388 sqq., 424, 427 sqq.

Gratia sanans s. medicinalis, 16, 91, 114.

Gratia secunda, 388 sqq.

Gratia vocans, 32, 35, 111.

Gratuity of Grace, 131 sqq.

Graveson, 216.

Gregory of Nazianzus, 102, 159, 308.

Gregory the Great, St., 38, 290, 308, 368, 380, 394.

Grotius, Hugo, 294.

Gutberlet, 165, 205.

H

Habits, 333 sqq.

“Half-Melanchthonians,” 292.

Harnack, 295, 296, 319, 381.

Heathens, The, receive sufficient grace for salvation, 179 sqq.

Henno, 324.

Henry of Ghent, 210.

Hilary, St., 97, 99, 209.

Holy Ghost, 331 sq., 335, 346, 361 sq., 368, 369 sq.

Hope, 363 sqq., 390, 396.

Hurter, 375.

Hus, 212.

Hypostatic Union, 12, 150, 345.

I

Ignatius of Antioch, St., 404.

Illuminating grace of the intellect, 19 sqq.

Imputation, Lutheran theory of, 313 sqq.

Incarnation, Dogma of the, 282 sqq.

Incompatibility of Grace and sin, 323 sqq.

Increase of glory, 429 sq.

Increase of sanctifying grace, 384 sqq., 423 sqq., 429.

“Indiculus,” 99.

Infants, Unbaptized, 163 sqq.,
  Baptized, 406.

Infralapsarians, 156, 213.

Inhabitatio Spiritus Sancti, 361 sq., 370 sqq.

Innocent I, 8, 9, 85, 154.

Innocent X, 168, 226.

Innocent XI, 73, 183, 281, 402.

Intensio gratiae, 389.

Irenæus, St., 47, 90, 404.

Isaias, 178.

J

Jacob and Esau, 201 sq.

James, St., 286, 287, 288, 289, 294, 403, 434.

Jansenius and Jansenism, 44, 52, 55, 62, 74, 77, 79, 80, 153 sq., 168,
            171, 180, 212, 218, 221, 222, 223, 224 sqq., 249, 252, 281,
            411, 417.

Jehu, 433.

Jerome, St., 58, 109, 354, 380, 387, 394, 412.

Jews, 137, 155, 195, 282, 367.

John a S. Thoma, 216.

John the Baptist, St., 116.

Joseph, St., 116, 211.

Jovinian, 387, 394.

Julian of Eclanum, 83, 85.

Justification, 36, 73, 97, 113 sq., 136 sqq.;
  Process of, 272 sqq.;
  Necessity of faith for, 274 sqq.;
  Necessity of other preparatory acts, 285 sqq.;
  The state of, 300 sqq.;
  The nature of, 301 sqq.;
  Negative element, 302 sqq.;
  Positive element, 310 sqq.;
  Sanctifying Grace the sole formal cause of, 322 sqq.;
  Qualities of, 378 sqq.;
  Increase of Grace, 388;
  Fruits of, 397 sqq.

Justin Martyr, St., 102, 308.

K

Klee, 164.

Κοινωνία θείας φύσεως, 345.

Krogh-Tonning, 293.

L

Lateran, Fourth Council of the, 179, 400.

Law of grace, 405.

Lessius, 150, 206, 211, 221, 262, 337, 420.

Liberty, see Freedom.

Liebermann, 89.

Logos, The Divine, 358, 359 sq.

Log-stick-and-stone theory, 291, 292.

Lucidus, 212.

Lumen gloriae, 345.

Luther, 52, 74, 132, 223, 285, 288, 291, 293, 295, 302, 310, 322, 384,
            389, 392, 399, 407.

M

Maldonatus, 203, 204.

Mary, B. V., 64, 116, 211, 384, 389, 391.

Massillon, 194.

Melanchthon, 292, 310.

Mennonites, 322.

Mercy, Works of, 416.

Merely sufficient Grace, 41 sqq.

Merit, 128, 131 sqq., 397 sqq., 430.

Meritum de congruo, 430 sqq.

Meritum naturae, 138.

Mezzofanti, Cardinal, 54.

Mileve, Council of, 85, 114, 116.

Modernism, 54.

Molina and Molinism, 65, 148, 200, 217, 255 sqq., 337.

Molinos, M. de, 401.

Moral virtues, Infused, 366 sqq.

Mortal sin, 97, 106 sqq., 392 sqq.

N

Nabuchodonosor, 58.

Natural and Supernatural Grace, 7 sqq.

Nature, Capacity of, 50 sqq.

Necessitas antecedens peccati, 120 sqq.

Necessitas medii—praecepti, 279 sqq.

O

Obduracy, 175 sq.

Objects of merit, 423 sqq.

Obstinacy, 178 sq.

Occasionalists, 406.

Ockam, 211.

Opera steriliter bona, 57, 81 sq.

Orange, Second Council of, 20, 44, 86, 92, 99, 100, 106, 110, 123, 136,
            139, 143, 213, 400.

Origen, 77.

Original sin, 303, 434.

Orosius, 182.

Osiander, 292.

Osorius, 204.

Oswald, 104, 203.

P

Palmieri, 61, 72, 103, 116.

Pantheism, 343.

Passaglia, 158, 375.

Passions, The, 28.

Paul, St., 12, 13, 16, 21, 22, 27, 57, 64, 65, 68, 88, 100 sq., 105, 107,
            125, 137, 146, 157 sq., 166, 169 sq., 180, 189, 191, 201 sq.,
            207, 227 sq., 259, 269, 276, 277, 281 sq., 283, 288 sq., 314,
            316, 317, 318, 319 sq., 351, 383, 393, 402, 407, 420, 424.

Paul V, 256, 261.

Pelagius and Pelagianism, 56, 64, 66, 71, 79, 82 sqq., 89, 97, 103, 114,
            119, 136, 141, 170, 190, 197, 228, 308.

Penance, Sacrament of, 395, 428.

Perrone, 18.

Perseverance, Final, 123 sqq., 425 sq., 432 sqq.

Pesch, Chr., 68, 72, 248.

Petavius, 203, 204, 361, 375.

Peter Lombard, 331.

Peter, St., 171, 184.

Pfeffinger, 292.

Piccolomini, 262.

Pighius, 204.

Πίστις, 277 sq., 290.

Pistoia, Council of, 71, 74.

Pius V, 165.

Pius VI, 71, 73.

Platel, 72.

Plato, 350.

Pneumatomachians, 373.

Polycarp, St., 290.

Pomponazzi, 52.

Postlapsarians, 213.

Potentia obedientialis, 19, 30, 40.

Praeambula fidei, 52, 102, 105.

Praemotio moralis, 249, 253.

Praemotio physica, 233 sqq., 248.

Prayer, 43, 91, 127 sqq., 133, 142 sqq., 266 sqq., 431, 433, 435.

Predestinarianism, Heretical, 212.

Predestination, 152, 187 sqq.;
  ante praevisa nierita, 199 sqq.;
  post praevisa merita, 206 sqq.

Predestinationism, Orthodox, 199 sqq.

Prevenient Grace, 32 sqq.

Priesthood, 13.

Properties of sanctifying Grace, 378 sqq.

Prosper, St., 25, 37, 59, 77, 97, 99, 100, 159, 182, 192, 215.

Protagoras, 350.

Q

Qualitates Fluentes, 29 sqq.

Qualities, 333 sq.

Quasi-Merit, 134.

Quesnel, 53, 72, 74 sqq., 180.

Quietists, 343, 401.

R

Re-Creation, 315, 339.

Regeneration, 314 sq., 329, 339, 341, 346.

Repentance, 176.

Reprobation, 152, 178, 212 sqq.

Requisites of supernatural merit, 410 sqq.

Ripalda, 65, 69, 71 sqq., 128, 145, 149, 330, 342, 345, 363.

Roman Catechism, 333, 340, 349, 363.

S

Saints absolutely predestined, 211;
  Favored by God, 419.

Salmeron, 337.

Salutary acts, 82 sqq.

Sanctification, Internal, 323, 347, 348.

Sanctifying Grace, 271 sqq.;
  Genesis of, 272 sqq.;
  The sole formal cause of justification, 322 sqq.;
  Nature of, 328 sqq.;
  A permanent quality of the soul, 328 sqq.;
  An infused habit, 333 sqq.;
  Not identical with charity, 336 sqq.;
  A participation of the soul in the divine nature, 340 sqq.;
  The effects of, 347 sqq.;
  Sanctity, 347 sqq.;
  Supernatural beauty, 349 sqq.;
  Divine friendship, 351 sqq.;
  Adoptive sonship, 356 sqq.;
  Supernatural concomitants, 362 sqq.;
  Properties of, 378 sqq.;
  Admits of degrees and therefore can be increased, 384 sqq.;
  Lost by mortal sin, 392 sqq.;
  Fruits of, 397 sqq.;
  As a requisite of merit, 418 sq.;
  Increased by merit, 424 sqq.

Sanctity, an effect of sanctifying Grace, 347 sqq.

Sardagna, 337.

Scheeben, 361, 375.

Schrader, 375.

Scientia media, 245, 253, 257 sq., 266.

Scotus and the Scotists, 10, 63, 67, 94, 210, 325, 332, 337, 419, 433.

“Seed of God,” Why grace is called the, 409.

Self-righteousness, 406 sq.

Semipelagianism, 97 sqq., 139 sqq., 146, 148, 170, 190, 197, 226, 228,
            239.

Sensitive sphere, Graces of the, 26 sqq.

Sinners, Ordinary and obdurate, 172 sqq.

Sin, Incompatible with Grace, 323 sqq.;
  Is sanctifying Grace diminished by venial sin? 388 sq.

Sins of malice, 247.

Society of Jesus, 260 sqq., 325.

Socinianism, 292.

Socrates, 25.

Sola fides theory, 286 sqq.

Soto, Dominicus, 211, 363, 430.

Stapleton, 206.

Stoics, 64, 387.

Strengthening Grace of the will, 23 sqq.

Suarez, 63, 96, 116, 122, 128, 150, 218, 219, 257, 262, 325, 330, 334,
            346, 359, 362, 363, 365, 390 sq., 415, 420, 433.

Sufficient Grace, 41 sqq., 167 sqq.

Supererogation, Works of, 411.

Supernatural character of merit, 413 sqq.

Sylvius, 216, 434.

Syncretism, 267 sqq.

Synergist dispute, 292.

T

Temporal blessings, 435.

Temptations, 65 sqq.

Tepe, 68, 72, 81.

Tertullian, 179.

Θείωσις, 341, 376.

Theodoret, 209.

Theological systems devised to harmonize the dogmas of grace and
            free-will, 231 sqq.;
  Thomism, 232 sqq.;
  Augustinianism, 248 sqq.;
  Molinism, 255 sqq.;
  Congruism, 261 sqq.;
  Syncretism, 267 sqq.

Thomas, St., 27, 32, 34, 52, 53, 62, 70, 93, 121, 149, 161, 165, 178, 185,
            194, 210, 232, 298, 331, 332, 334, 338, 339, 345, 349, 357,
            365, 368 sq., 387, 409, 414, 419, 421, 431, 432, 435.

Thomism and the Thomists, 11, 29, 200, 203, 216, 219, 232 sqq., 325, 332,
            389, 413, 414.

Toletus, 204, 206.

Tournely, 207, 337.

Traditionalism, 52.

Trent, Council of, 34, 35, 36, 38, 45, 74, 86, 94, 106, 107, 111, 115 sq.,
            122, 123, 124, 125, 136, 153, 165, 168, 182, 188, 213, 224,
            227, 243 sq., 247, 265, 272, 275, 285, 295 sqq., 303, 307, 311
            sqq., 319, 322 sq., 324, 325, 329 sq., 331, 335, 338, 352,
            361, 363, 365, 383, 385, 391, 392, 400, 401, 407 sq., 415, 421
            sq., 423, 425, 426, sqq., 431.

Trinity, Dogma of the, 282 sqq.

U

Ultricuria, Nicholas de, 52.

Unbelief, 97.

“Unigenitus,” Constitution, 74.

V

Vasquez, 69 sqq., 72, 94, 133, 149, 262, 337, 363, 415, 418, 420, 425.

Vatican Council, 51, 54, 73, 183, 244 sq., 265.

Vega, 122.

Venial sin, Possibility of avoiding, 117 sqq.;
  Is sanctifying Grace diminished by? 388 sq.

Vienne, Council of, 331, 363.

Vital acts of the soul, 27 sqq.

Vitelleschi, 262.

Vocation, The grace of, 190, 196.

Voluntas salvifica Dei, 152 sqq.

W

Wiclif, 212.

Will to save, God’s, 152 sqq.

Y

Ysambert, 211.

Z

Zosimus, 85.

Zwingli, 298.

FOOTNOTES

    1 The Fathers and the Schoolmen “do not emphasize the difference, and
      frequently speak of habitual and actual grace as of one whole.
      Controversial reasons account for this discrepancy, which readers of
      the older theologians should constantly bear in mind.”
      (Wilhelm-Scannell, Manual of Catholic Theology, Vol. II, p. 229,
      2nd ed., London 1901.)

    2 The asterisk before an author’s name indicates that his treatment of
      the subject is especially clear and thorough. As St. Thomas is
      invariably the best guide, the omission of the asterisk before his
      name never means that we consider his work inferior to that of other
      writers. There are vast stretches of theology which he scarcely
      touched.

    3 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and the Supernatural,
      pp. 181 sqq., St. Louis 1912.

    5 “The same name is loosely applied to the act of ‘blessing’ the food
      before taking it, which is properly the function of a priest, but
      which is suitably performed by every Christian.” (Hunter, Outlines
      of Dogmatic Theology, Vol. III, p. 6.) Cfr. XI, 6: “Si autem gratia, iam non ex operibus; alioquin gratia
      iam non est gratia.”

    7 Tract. in Ioannem, III, n. 9: “Quid est gratia? Gratis data. Quid
      est gratis data? Donata, non reddita.”

    8 Debitum naturae.

    9 Epistula ad Innocent., n. 2: “Nam si intellexissent illi
      episcopi, eam illum dicere gratiam, quam etiam cum impiis habemus,
      cum quibus homines sumus, negare vero eam quâ Christiani et filii
      Dei sumus, quis eum patienter ... ante oculos suos ferret?
      Quapropter non culpandi sunt iudices, qui ecclesiasticâ consuetudine
      nomen gratiae [i.e. christianae] audierunt.”

   10 On the difference between these two categories see Pohle-Preuss,
      God the Author of Nature and the Supernatural, pp. 180 sqq.

   11 Epist. ad Innocent., l.c.: “Etsi quâdam non improbandâ ratione
      dicitur gratia Dei quâ creati sumus [gratia naturalis], ... alia est
      tamen, quâ praedestinati vocamur, iustificamur, glorificamur [gratia
      supernaturalis].”

   12 Epist. ad Sixt., 194, n. 8: “Haec est enim gratia, quam in libris
      Dei legere et populis praedicare catholici antistites consueverunt,
      et gratia quam commendat Apostolus non est ea quâ creati sumus, ut
      homines essemus, sed quâ iustificati sumus, quum mali homines
      essemus.”

   13 St. Augustine, Ep., 217: “Hoc [scil. credere] opus est gratiae,
      non naturae. Opus est, inquam, gratiae quam nobis attulit secundus
      Adam, non naturae quam totam perdidit in seipso Adam.”

   14 Gratia est donum gratis datum supernaturale.

   15 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Soteriology. A Dogmatic Treatise on the
      Redemption, pp. 24 sqq., St. Louis 1914.

   16 Gratia est donum gratis datum, supernaturale, ex meritis Christi.

   17 Cfr. St. Augustine, Contra Duas Epistolas Pelagianorum, IV, 15.

   18 Cfr. Rom. III, 21 sqq.; Gal. II, 16.

   19 Gratia est donum gratis datum, supernaturale, internum, ex meritis
      Christi.

   20 St. Matthew X, 8: “Infirmos curate, mortuos suscitate, leprosos
      mundate, daemones eiicite: gratis accepistis, gratis date (δωρεὰν
      δότε).”—The name “gratuitously given,” as Fr. Hunter observes
      (Outlines, III, 10), is “tautological and not particularly
      expressive,” and “helps in no way to indicate what is the nature of
      the graces which it is intended to exclude. These are such as, for
      want of a better word, we call ingratiating: the Latin name used by
      theologians (gratum faciens) denotes that they make a man pleasing
      to God, grateful to Him, if we understand grateful of that which
      gives pleasure, and not in its commoner sense, which is nearly the
      same as thankful.”

   21 For a list of the charismata see 1 Cor. XII, 4 sqq. Cfr. Englmann,
      Von den Charismen im allgemeinen und von dem Sprachencharisma im
      besonderen, Ratisbon 1848; Cornely, Comment. in S. Pauli Priorem
      Epistolam ad Corinthios, pp. 410 sqq., Paris 1890; Chr. Pesch,
      Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. V, 3rd ed., pp. 243 sqq., Freiburg 1908.

   22 1 Cor. XII, 31: “Aemulamini autem charismata meliora, et adhuc
      excellentiorem viam vobis demonstro.”

   23 Caritas, ἀγάπη.

   24 1 Cor. XIII, 1 sqq. Cfr. St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theol., 1a 2ae,
      qu. 111, art. 5: “Unaquaeque virtus tanto excellentior est, quanto
      ad altius bonum ordinatur. Semper autem finis potior est his, quae
      sunt ad finem [i.e. media]. Gratia autem gratum faciens ordinat
      hominem immediate ad coniunctionem ultimi finis; gratiae autem
      gratis datae ordinant hominem ad quaedam praeparatoria finis ultimi,
      sicut per prophetiam et miracula et huiusmodi homines inducuntur ad
      hoc quod ultimo fini coniungantur. Et ideo gratia gratum faciens est
      multo excellentior quam gratia gratis data.”

   25 Gratia est donum gratis datum, supernaturale, internum, gratum
      faciens, ex meritis Christi. 109,
      sect. 2 sq.

   31 Cfr. D. Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 15.

   32 Causa formalis.

   33 Causa efficiens.

   34 Causa meritoria.

   35 Causa materialis.

   36 Causalitas moralis.

   37 Causalitas physica.

   38 Causa finalis inadaequata.

   39 Causa finalis adaequata.

   40 On the potentia obedientialis see Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of
      Nature and the Supernatural, pp. 188 sqq.

   41 Can. 7, quoted by Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 180.

   42 Supra, p. 11.

   43 “Lex Domini immaculata, convertens animas, ... praeceptum Domini
      lucidum, illuminans oculos.”

   44 “Christus passus est pro nobis, vobis relinquens exemplum, ut
      sequamini vestigia eius.”

   45 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 34: “Visorum suasionibus agit Deus, ut
      velimus et ut credamus, sive extrinsecus per evangelicas
      exhortationes sive intrinsecus, ubi nemo habet in potestate, quid ei
      veniat in mentem.”

   46 2 Cor. III, 4 sq.: “Fiduciam autem talem habemus per Christum ad
      Deum; non quod sufficientes simus cogitare aliquid a nobis quasi ex
      nobis, sed sufficientia nostra ex Deo est.”

   47 1 Cor. III, 6: “Ego plantavi, Apollo rigavit; sed Deus incrementum
      dedit (ἀλλὰ ὁ θεὸς ηὔξανεν). Itaque neque qui plantat est aliquid
      neque qui rigat, sed qui incrementum dat, Deus (ὁ αὐξάνων θεός).”

   48 De Gratia Christi, c. 19: “Ipse in bonis arboribus cooperatur
      fructum, qui et forinsecus rigat atque excolit per quemlibet
      ministrum et per se dat intrinsecus incrementum.” Cfr. also Eph. I,
      17 sq., Acts XXVI, 16 sqq., 2 Cor. IV, 6, 1 John II, 20 and 27.

   49 Cfr. Mazzella, De Gratia, disp. 1, art. 1, §4, 3rd ed., Rome 1882.

   50 Tract. in Ioa., III, 13: “Magisteria forinsecus adiutoria quaedam
      sunt et admonitiones; cathedram in coelo habet, qui corda tenet.”

   51 L.c.: “Interior magister est, qui docet; Christus docet,
      inspiratio ipsius docet.”

   52 Ep. 17 de Incarn. et Grat. n. 67: “Frustra [divinus sermo]
      exterioribus auribus sonat, nisi Deus spiritali munere auditum
      hominis interioris aperiat.” Other Patristic texts will be found in
      the classic work of Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 101,
      sect. 3-4.

   53 It is to be noted, however, that the term gratia inspirationis,
      both in the writings of St. Augustine and in the decrees of Trent
      (Sess. VI, can. 3), sometimes also denotes the immediate
      illuminating grace of the mind.

   54 De Gratia Christi, c. 12: “Quâ gratiâ agitur, non solum ut
      facienda noverimus, verum etiam ut cognita faciamus, nec ut solum
      diligenda credamus, verum etiam ut credita diligamus.”

   55 Op. cit., c. 26: “Cognitionem et dilectionem, sicut sunt
      discernenda, discernat, quia scientia inflat, quando caritas
      aedificat.... Et quum sit utrumque donum Dei, sed unum minus,
      alterum maius, non sic iustitiam nostram super laudem iustificatoris
      extollat, ut horum duorum quod minus est divino tribuat adiutorio,
      quod autem maius est humano usurpet arbitrio.”

   56 He applies a variety of practically synonymous terms to the
      strengthening grace of the will, for instance: delectatio
      coelestis, spiritus caritatis, inspiratio dilectionis, bona
      voluntas, voluptas, sanctum desiderium, inspiratio
      suavitatis, cupiditas boni, etc.

   57 Canon 4: “Quisquis dixerit, eandem gratiam Dei per Iesum Christum
      D. N. propter hoc tantum adiuvare ad non peccandum, quia per ipsam
      nobis aperitur el revelatur intelligentia mandatorum, ut sciamus
      quid appetere et quid vitare debeamus, non autem per illam nobis
      praestari ut quod faciendum cognoverimus, etiam facere diligamus
      atque valeamus, a. s.; ... quum sit utrumque donum Dei, et scire
      quid facere debeamus et diligere ut faciamus.” (Denzinger-Bannwart,
      n. 104.)

   58 Contra Collator., c. VII, 2: “Trahit timor; principium enim
      sapientiae timor Domini (Prov. I, 7). Trahit laetitia, quoniam
      laetatus sum in his, quae dicta sunt mihi: in domum Domini ibimus
      (Ps. CXXI, 1). Trahit desiderium, quoniam concupiscit et deficit
      anima mea in atria Domini (Ps. LXXXIII, 3). Trahunt delectationes:
      quam dulcia enim faucibus meis eloquia tua, super mel et favum ori
      meo (Ps. CXVIII, 103). Et quis perspicere aut enarrare possit, per
      quos affectus visitatio Dei animum ducat humanum?” Cfr. Schiffini,
      De Gratia Divina, thes. 11; Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali,
      thes. 8.

   59 De Anima, I, 8: Ἄνευ φαντάσματος οὐκ ἔστι νοεῖν.

   60 De Peccatorum Meritis et Remissione, II, 19, 33: “... ut suave
      faciat, quod non delectabat.”

   61 2 Cor. XII, 9: “Sufficit tibi gratia mea.” For further information
      on this point the student is referred to Ripalda, De Ente
      Supernaturali, disp. 44, sect. 9.

   62 In Psalmos, 102, n. 16: “Vocat [Deus] per intimam
      cognitionem.”—Tract. in Ioa., 26, n. 7: “Videte quomodo trahit
      Pater, docendo delectat.”

   63 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 110, art. 2.

   64 S. Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 25, art. 2. I.

   68 Cfr., e.g., De Trinitate, VIII, 10: “Quid est dilectio vel
      caritas, quam tantopere Scriptura divina laudat et praedicat, nisi
      amor boni?”—Contra Duas Epistolas Pelag., II, 9, 21: “Quid est
      boni cupiditas nisi caritas?”—De Gratia Christi, c. 21: “Quasi
      vero aliud sit bona voluntas quam caritas.”

   69 It should also be noted that in Augustine’s writings inspiratio
      caritatis, as an immediate grace of the will, is not necessarily
      identical with the infusion of theological love.

   70 E.g. Berti, De Theol. Discipl., XIV, 7.

   71 Cfr. Alvarez, De Aux., disp. 67, n. 6.

   72 Alvarez, op. cit., disp. 74.—Cfr. John VI, 44: “Nemo potest
      venire ad me, nisi Pater, qui misit me, traxerit eum.” Apoc. III,
      20: “Ecce sto ad ostium et pulso; si quis audierit vocem meam et
      aperuerit mihi ianuam, intrabo ad illum.”

   73 Comment. in Summam Theol. S. Thomae Aquinatis, p. 2, tr. 6, qu. 2,
      art. 2, §2.

   74 V. supra, Nos. 1 and 2.

   75 Ad Simplic., I, 2, n. 21: “Quis potest credere, nisi aliquâ
      vocatione, h. e. aliquâ rerum testificatione tangatur? Quis habet in
      potestate tali viso attingi mentem suam, quo eius voluntas moveatur
      ad fidem?”

   76 Cfr. Suarez, De Div. Grat., III, 4: “In Conciliis et Patribus
      nullum vestigium talis gratiae invenimus, quin potius ipsam
      inspirationem ponunt ut gratiam primam et praeterea indicant
      immediate infundi ab ipso Spiritu Sancto et non mediante aliquâ
      qualitate.”

   77 De Gratia, diss. 4, art. 2. Dictum est autem supra (qu. 109, art. 1), quod
      dupliciter ex gratuita Dei voluntate homo adiuvatur: uno modo
      inquantum anima hominis movetur a Deo ad aliquid cognoscendum vel
      volendum vel agendum; et hoc modo ipse gratuitus effectus in homine
      non est qualitas, sed motus quidam animae; actus enim moventis in
      moto est motus, ut dicitur (Phys. 1, 3, text. 18). Alio modo
      adiuvatur homo ex gratuita Dei voluntate, secundum quod aliquod
      habituale donum a Deo animae infunditur ... et sic donum gratiae
      qualitas quaedam est.”—Cfr. Palmieri, De Gratia Div. Actuali,
      thes. 16; Pesch, Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. V, 3rd ed., pp. 23 sqq.;
      Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 220 sqq. The Thomistic doctrine
      on this point is viewed with favor by several Molinist theologians,
      e.g., Platel (De Gratia, n. 547) and Gutberlet (Dogmatische
      Theologie, Vol. VIII, pp. 25 sq., Mainz 1897).

   79 De Peccat. Merit. et Rem., II, 18: “Quoniam quod a Deo nos
      avertimus nostrum est, et haec est voluntas mala; quod vero ad Deum
      nos convertimus nisi ipso excitante et adiuvante non possumus, et
      haec est voluntas bona.”

   80 De Grat. et Lib. Arbitr., c. 17, 33: “Ipse ut velimus, operatur
      incipiens, qui volentibus cooperatur perficiens.”—On certain
      differences of opinion on this point between Suarez (De Div.
      Motione, III, 5) and St. Thomas (Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 111,
      art. 2), see Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 252 sqq.

   81 Cfr. Ps. LVIII, 11; XXII, 6.

   82 Enchiridion, c. 32: “Nolentem praevenit, ut velit; volentem
      subsequitur, ne frustra velit.”

   83 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 5: “Declarat praeterea, ipsius
      justificationis exordium in adultis a Dei per Iesum Christum
      praeveniente gratia sumendum esse, h. e. ab eius vocatione, qua
      nullis eorum existentibus meritis vocantur.” (Denzinger-Bannwart,
      n. 797.)

   84 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 111, art. 3: “Sicut gratia dividitur in
      operantem et cooperantem secundum diversos effectus, ita etiam in
      praevenientem et subsequentem, qualitercumque gratia accipiatur
      (i.e. sive habitualis sive actualis). Sunt autem quinque effectus
      gratiae in nobis, quorum primus est ut anima sanetur; secundus ut
      bonum velit; tertius est ut bonum quod vult efficaciter operetur;
      quartus est ut in bono perseveret; quintus est ut ad gloriam
      perveniat. Et ideo gratia, secundum quod causat in nobis primum
      effectum, vocatur praeveniens respectu secundi effectus; et prout
      causat in nobis secundum, vocatur subsequens respectu primi
      effectus. Et sicut unus effectus est posterior uno effectu et prior
      alio, ita gratia potest dici praeveniens et subsequens secundum
      eundem effectum respectu diversorum.”

   85 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 16: “Iesus Christus in ipsos
      iustificatos iugiter virtutem influit, quae virtus bona eorum opera
      semper antecedit et comitatur et subsequitur.”

   86 On the distinction to be drawn between the various members of these
      pairs, whether it be real or merely logical, theologians differ.
      Cfr. Palmieri, De Div. Grat., thes.

   87 V. supra, Nos. 1 and 4.

   88 Sess. VI, cap. 5 and can. 4, quoted in Denzinger-Bannwart’s
      Enchiridion, n. 797 and 814.

   89 Ad Simplic., I, qu. M. Cronin, The Science of Ethics, Vol. I, pp. 30 sqq., Dublin
      1909.

   92 Contra Duas Epistolas Pelagian., II, 9, 21: “Multa Deus facit in
      homine bona, quae non facit homo; nulla vero facit homo, quae non
      facit Deus, ut faciat homo.”

   93 De Gratia et Lib. Arbitr., c. 17, n. 33: “Ut ergo velimus, sine
      nobis operatur; quum autem volumus et sic volumus ut faciamus,
      nobiscum cooperatur; tamen sine illo vel operante ut velimus, vel
      cooperante quum volumus, ad bona pietatis opera nihil valemus.”

   94 De Gratia et Lib. Arbitr., c. 14: “Si ergo Deus tria haec, h. e.
      bonum cogitare, velle, perficere, operatur in nobis (2 Cor. III, 5;
      Phil. II, 13), primum profecto sine nobis, secundum nobiscum,
      tertium per nos facit. Siquidem immittendo bonam cogitationem, nos
      praevenit; immutando etiam malam voluntatem sibi per consensum
      iungit; ministrando et consensui facultatem foris per apertum opus
      nostrum internus opifex innotescit. Sane ipsi nos praevenire
      nequaquam possumus. Qui autem bonum neminem invenit, neminem salvat,
      quem non praevenit. A Deo ergo sine dubio nostrae fit salutis
      exordium, nec per nos utique nec nobiscum. Verum consensus et opus,
      etsi non ex nobis, non iam tamen sine nobis.”—On the
      misinterpretation of this text by the Jansenists, see Palmieri, De
      Gratia Divina Actuali, pp. 84 sq.

   95 Moral., XVI, 10: “Superna pietas prius agit in nobis aliquid sine
      nobis [gratia praeveniens], ut subsequente libero arbitrio bonum,
      quod appetimus, agat nobiscum [gratia cooperans].”

   96 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, c. 16: “Tanta est [Dei] erga homines
      bonitas, ut eorum velit esse merita quae sunt ipsius dona.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 810.)

   97 De Grat. et Lib. Arbitr., c. 16, 32: “Certum enim est nos mandata
      servare, si volumus; sed quia praeparatur voluntas a Domino, ab illo
      petendum est, ut tantum velimus quantum sufficit, ut volendo
      faciamus. Certum est nos velle, quum volumus; sed ille facit ut
      velimus bonum, de quo dictum est quod paulo ante posui (Prov. VIII,
      35): Praeparatur voluntas a Domino; de quo dictum est (Ps.
      XXXVI, 32): A Domino gressus hominis dirigentur et viam eius
      volet; de quo dictum est (Phil. II, 13): Deus est qui
      operatur in nobis et velle. Certum est nos facere quum facimus;
      sed ille facit ut faciamus, praebendo vires efficacissimas
      voluntati, qui dixit (Ezech. XXXVI, 27): Faciam ut in
      iustificationibus meis ambuletis et iudicia mea observetis et
      faciatis. Quum dicit: Faciam ut faciatis, quid aliud
      dicit nisi (Ezech. XI, 19): Auferam a vobis cor lapideum,
      unde non faciebatis, (Ezech. XXXVI, 26), et dabo vobis cor
      carneum, unde facitis.”—On the subject of this paragraph see
      Palmieri, op. cit., thes. 10, and Chr. Pesch, op. cit., pp. 14
      sqq.

   99 Cfr. Palmieri, De Div. Grat. Actuali; thes.

  100 V. infra, Ch. III, Sect. 2.

  101 De Grat. et Lib. Palmieri, De Div. Grat.
      Actuali, thes. 11.

  103 De Nat. et Grat., 43: “Nam Deus impossibilia non iubet, sed
      iubendo monet, et facere quod possis, et petere quod non possis, et
      adiuvat ut possis.”

  104 De Gratia Christi, IV, 10: “... ita inefficax, ex qua operatio ne
      possit quidem sequi, nisi eius inefficacia per aliam suppleatur.”

  105 “Illud a recentioribus prolatum gratiae sufficientis genus, quo
      adiuvante nullum unquam opus factum est aut fiet unquam, videtur
      monstrum quoddam singulare gratiae, solummodo peccatis faciendis
      maiorique damnationi accersendae serviens.” (De Grat. Christi,
      III, 3).

  106 “Gratia sufficiens statui nostro non tam utilis quam perniciosa
      est, sic ut proinde merito possimus petere: A gratia sufficienti
      libera nos, Domine.” This assertion was condemned by Pope Alexander
      VIII in 1690. It is convincingly refuted by Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 354 sqq.

  107 “Hoc etiam secundum fidem catholicam credimus, quod acceptâ per
      baptismum gratiâ omnes baptizati Christo auxiliante et cooperante,
      quae ad salutem pertinent, possint et debeant, si fideliter laborare
      voluerint, adimplere.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 200.)

  108 Sess. VI, can. 4: “Si quis dixerit, liberum hominis arbitrium a Deo
      motum et excitatum nihil cooperari Deo, ... neque posse dissentire,
      si velit, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 814.)

  109 Is. V, 4: “Quid est, quod debui ultra facere vineae meae et non
      feci ei? An quod exspectavi, ut faceret uvas et fecit labruscas?”

  110 Prov. I, 24: “Vocavi et renuistis, extendi manum meam et non fuit
      qui adspiceret.”

  111 Matth. XI, 21.

  112 Cfr. Matth. XXIII, 37; Acts VII, 51; 1 Cor. X, 13; 2 Cor. VI, 1; 1
      Thess. V, 19.

  113 Contra Haer., IV, 37, 1: “Illud autem quod dicit (Matth. XXIII,
      37): Quoties volui colligere filios tuos, et noluisti, veterem
      libertatem hominis manifestat, quia liberum eum fecit Deus ab
      initio.... Vis enim a Deo non fit, sed bona sententia adest illi
      semper. Et propter hoc consilium quidem bonum dat omnibus.... Et qui
      operantur quidem illud [gratia efficax], gloriam et honorem
      percipient, quoniam operati sunt bonum, quum possint non operari
      illud; hi autem, qui illud non operantur, indicium iustum excipient
      Dei, quoniam non sunt operati bonum [gratia inefficax], quum possint
      operari illud [gratia vere et mere sufficiens].”

  114 “Gratia Dei ... quae hominum adiuvat voluntates: qua ut non
      adiuventur, in ipsis itidem causa est, non in Deo.” De Peccat.
      Mer. et Rem., II, 17.

  115 De Lib. Arbitr., III, 16: “Ex eo quod non accepit, nullus reus
      est; ex eo autem quod non facit quod debet, iuste reus est. Debet
      autem [facere], si accepit et voluntatem liberam et
      sufficientissimam facultatem.” On the Jansenist distortions of St.
      Augustine’s teaching see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes.
      48. The doctrine of the Greek Fathers is thoroughly rehearsed by
      Isaac Habert, Theol. Patr. Graec., II, 6 sq.

  116 Conc. Vat., Sess. III, De Revel., can. 1: “Si quis dixerit, Deum
      unum et verum, Creatorem et Dominum nostrum, per ea, quae facta
      sunt, naturali rationis humanae lumine certo cognosci non posse,
      anathema sit.”

  117 Conc. Vat., Sess. III, cap. 4: “Hoc quoque perpetuus Ecclesiae
      catholicae consensus tenuit et tenet, duplicem esse ordinem
      cognitionis, non solum principio, sed obiecto etiam distinctum:
      principio quidem, quia in altero naturali ratione et altero fide
      divinâ cognoscimus; obiecto autem, quia praeter ea, ad quae
      naturalis ratio pertingere potest, credenda nobis proponuntur
      mysteria in Deo abscondita, quae, nisi revelata divinitus,
      innotescere non possunt.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1795.)

  118 Nicholas d’Autricourt, a master in the University of Paris, in 1348,
      was compelled by the Sorbonne and the Apostolic See to retract a
      number of propositions taken from his writings which were infected
      with scepticism. These propositions, most of which had been censured
      as heretical, and some as merely false, may be found in Natalis
      Alexander, Hist. Eccles., ed. Bing., XV, 195, and also, with some
      explanatory remarks, in Denifle-Chatelain, Chartularium Univ.
      Paris., II, 1, Paris 1891.

  119 “Klotz-, Stock- und Steintheorie.”

  120 On Traditionalism, see Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability, Essence,
      and Attributes, pp. 44 sqq., 2nd ed., St. Louis 1914.

  121 Wisd. XIII, 1 sqq.; Rom. I, 20 sq.; Rom. II, 14 sq. Cfr.
      Pohle-Preuss, op. cit., pp. 17 sqq.

  122 Ibid., pp. 38 sqq.

  123 Summa Theol., 1a, qu. 2, art. 2, ad 1: “Deum esse et alia
      huiusmodi ... non sunt articuli fidei, sed praeambula ad articulos;
      sic enim fides praesupponit cognitionem naturalem, sicut gratia
      naturam et perfectio perfectibile.”

  124 Luther’s Werke, ed. Walch, XII, 400, Halle 1742: “Alles, was sie
      örtert und schleusst, so gewisslich falsch und irrig ist, als Gott
      lebt.”

  125 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 1 and canon 5. Already
      St. Augustine observed: “Ad miseriam iustae damnationis pertinet
      ignorantia et difficultas, quam patitur homo ab exordio nativitatis
      suae, nec ab isto malo nisi Dei gratiâ liberatur.” (Retract., I.
      9.)

  127 Propos. 2, art. 4.

  130 Conc. Vatic., Sess. III, De Revel., cap. 2: “Ut ea, quae in
      rebus divinis humanae rationi per se impervia non sunt, in praesenti
      quoque generis humani conditione ab omnibus expedite, firmâ
      certitudine et nullo admixto errore cognosci possint.”

  131 Cfr. Chastel, S. J., De la Valeur de la Raison Humaine, Paris
      1854; O. Willmann, Geschichte des Idealismus, Vol. III, 2nd ed.,
      pp. 811 sqq., Braunschweig 1908; Bellarmine, De Gratia et Libero
      Arbitrio, V, 1 sqq.

  132 The only dissenting voice is that of Cardinal Cajetan.

  133 Mezzofanti spoke perfectly thirty-eight languages, thirty others
      less perfectly, and was more or less familiar with fifty dialects.
      Cfr. U. Benigni in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. X, p. 271.

  134 On the question whether grace can enable a man to acquire an
      unlimited, universal knowledge, see Pohle-Preuss, Christology, pp.
      258 sqq., St. Louis 1913. Cfr. also St. Thomas, Summa Theol., 1a
      2ae, qu. 109, art. 1, and Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali,
      thes. 19.

  135 Prop. Baii Damn., 27: “Liberum arbitrium sine gratiae Dei
      adiutorio nonnisi ad peccandum valet.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1027.)

  136 Prop. Baii Damn., 37: “Cum Pelagio sentit, qui boni aliquid
      naturalis, i.e. quod ex naturae solis viribus ortum ducit,
      agnoscit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1037.)

  137 Prop. Baii Damn., 25: “Omnia opera infidelium sunt peccata et
      philosophorum virtutes sunt vitia.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1025.)

  138 Prop. Damn. ab Alex. VIII: “Necesse est infidelem in omni opere
      peccare.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1298.)

  139 Matth. V, 46 sq.

  140 Mercedem, μισθόν.

  141 Salutaveritis, ὰσπάσησθε.

  142 Ethnici, οἱ ἐθνικοί.

  143 Rom. II, 14 sqq.

  144 Gentes, ἔθνη.

  145 That is, the Mosaic law.

  146 Naturaliter, φύσει.

  147 Naturaliter, φύσει.

  148 “Quae legis sunt, faciunt.”

  149 Rom. I, 21 sqq.

  150 For other germane texts see Ezech. XXIX, 18 sqq.; Rom. I, 21.

  151 πᾶν δὲ ὅ οὐκ ἐκ πίστεως, ἁμαρτία ἐστιν.

  152 πίστις = συνείδησις.

  153 Cfr. also 1 Cor. VIII, 10 sqq. For a fuller explanation see
      Scheeben, Dogmatik, Vol. III, pp. 954 sqq.

  154 Ezech. XXIX, 20: “And for the service that he hath done me against
      it [the city of Tyre], I have given him the land of Egypt, because
      he hath labored for me, saith the Lord God.”

  155 In Ezech., XXIX, 20: “Ex eo quod Nabuchodonosor accepit mercedem
      boni operis, intelligimus etiam ethnicos, si quid boni fecerint, non
      absque mercede Dei iudicio praeteriri.”

  156 In Gal., I, 15: “Multi absque fide et evangelio Christi vel
      sapienter faciunt aliquid vel sancte, ut parentibus obsequantur, ut
      inopi manum porrigant, non opprimant vicinos, non aliena diripant.”

  157 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 28: “Sicut enim non impediunt a vita
      aeterna iustum quaedam peccata venialia, sine quibus haec vita non
      ducitur, sic ad salutem aeternam nihil prosunt impio aliqua bona
      opera, sine quibus difficillime vita cuiuslibet pessimi hominis
      invenitur.”

  158 Ep., 144, 2.

  159 Confess., VI, 10.

  160 Ep., 138, c. 3: “Deus enim sic ostendit in opulentissimo et
      praeclaro imperio Romanorum, quantum valerent civiles etiam sine
      verâ religione virtutes, ut intelligeretur hâc additâ fieri homines
      cives alterius civitatis, cuius rex veritas, cuius lex caritas,
      cuius modus aeternitas.”

  161 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 3, n. 5: “Neque liberum arbitrium
      quidquam nisi ad peccandum valet, si lateat veritatis via.”

  162 Sent. ex August., n. 106: “Omnis vita infidelium peccatum est et
      nihil est bonum sine summo bono. Ubi enim deest agnitio summae et
      incommutabilis veritatis, falsa virtus est etiam in optimis
      moribus.”

  163 What Augustine himself observes of the literary style of St. Cyprian
      (Ep., 93, c. 10, n. 39): “Habet quandam propriam faciem, quâ
      possit agnosci,” applies in an even truer sense to his own
      writings.

  164 Cfr. Enchirid., c. 30.

  165 Cfr. De Correptione et Gratia, c. 9, n. 20 sqq. 21.

  167 Palmieri, l.c., thes. 20. Concerning the effects of original sin
      on free-will, see Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and the
      Supernatural, pp. 291 sq.

  168 On this distinction see supra, pp. 15 sqq.

  169 Summa Theol., 2a 2ae, qu. 10, art. 4: “Bona opera, ad quae
      sufficit bonum naturae, aliqualiter operari possunt [infideles].
      Unde non oportet quod in omni suo opere peccent; sed quandocunque
      aliquod opus operantur ex infidelitate, tunc peccant.”

  170 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, can. 7: “Si quis dixerit, opera
      omnia quae ante iustificationem fiunt, quacunque ratione facta sint,
      vere esse peccata vel odium Dei mereri, aut quanto vehementius quis
      nititur se disponere ad gratiam, tanto eum gravius peccare, anathema
      sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 817.)

  171 V. infra, No. 3.

  173 “Propositio temeraria et errori proxima.”

  174 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 13: “Verumtamen qui se existimant
      stare, videant ne cadant, et cum timore ac tremore salutem suam
      operentur.... Formidare enim debent ... de pugna, quae superest cum
      carne, cum mundo, cum diabolo, in qua victores esse non possunt,
      nisi cum Dei gratiâ Apostolo obtemperent dicenti: Debitores etc.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 806.)

  175 Rom. VII, 22 sqq.

  176 Rom. VII, 24 sq.

  177 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Mariology, pp. 80 sqq., St. Louis 1914. 5;
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 416, Mainz
      1897.

  179 De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 114, sect. 18.

  180 Concord., art. 13, disp. 19.

  181 Cfr. Chr. Pesch, Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. V, pp. 87 sqq.

  182 Cfr. the following passage from the Tridentine Council: “... cum
      timore ac tremore salutem suam operentur in laboribus, in vigiliis,
      in eleemosynis, in orationibus et oblationibus, in ieiuniis et
      castitate.”

  183 De Natura et Gratia, c. 48, n. 62: “Fideles enim orantes dicunt:
      Ne nos inferas in tentationem. Si adest possibilitas, ut quid orant?
      Aut a quo malo se liberari orant nisi maxime de corpore mortis
      huius?... de vitiis carnalibus, unde non liberatur homo sine gratiâ
      Salvatoris.... Orare sinatur, ut sanetur. Quid tantum de naturae
      possibilitate praesumitur? Vulnerata, sauciata, vexata, perdita est;
      verâ confessione, non falsâ defensione opus habet.” The necessity
      of grace, and of prayer to obtain grace, is admirably and
      exhaustively treated by Suarez, De Necessitate Gratiae, I, 23,
      sqq. Cfr. also Bellarmine, De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, V, 7 sqq.

  184 Comment. in Quatuor Libros Sent., III, dist. 27, qu. unica:
      “Ratio recta docet, solum summum bonum infinitum esse summe
      diligendum et per consequens voluntas hoc potest ex puris
      naturalibus; nihil enim potest intellectus recte dictare, in quod
      dictatum non possit voluntas rationalis naturaliter tendere.”

  185 Comment. in Summam Theol. S. Thomae Aqu., 2a 2ae, qu. 171, art. 2. 24, art. 2.

  187 De Natura et Gratia, I, 21.

  188 Concord., qu. 14, art. 13, disp. 14.

  189 De Gratia, I, 33. 3)
      cfr. Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 3, art. 4.

  191 It is not true, as Bellarmine argues, that the amor Dei naturalis
      at its highest would result in justification.

  192 Prop. Baii Damn., 34: “Distinctio illa duplicis amoris, naturalis
      videlicet, quo Deus amatur ut auctor naturae, et gratuiti, quo Deus
      amatur ut beatificator, vana est et commentitia.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1034).—36: “Amor naturalis, qui ex viribus
      naturae exoritur, ex sola philosophia per elationem praesumptionis
      humanae cum iniuria crucis Christi defenditur a nonnullis
      doctoribus.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1036.)

  193 Cfr. Conc. Arausic. II, a. 529, can. 25: “Prorsus donum Dei est
      diligere Deum.”

  194 Cfr. Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, can. 3.

  195 Praelect. Dogm., Vol. V, pp. 73 sqq.

  196 Instit. Theolog., Vol. III, pp. 19 sqq.

  197 Rom. I, 21.

  198 Rom. I, 25.

  199 In Epist. ad Roman., I, 18: “Potuerunt enim id per legem naturae
      apprehendere, fabricâ mundi testificante auctorem Deum solum
      diligendum, quod Moyses literis tradidit; sed impii facti sunt non
      colendo Creatorem et iniustitia in eis apparet, dum videntes
      dissimulabant a veritate, non fatentes unum Deum.”

  200 Comment. in Summam Theol. S. Thomae Aqu., 1a 2ae, disp. 189 sq.

  201 De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 20.

  202 Op. cit.

  203 To admit the possibility of true actus humani that are neither
      good nor bad, but ethically indifferent, is to escape the error of
      Baius that “Free-will without the aid of divine grace avails for
      nothing but sin.” (Prop. Damn., 27.)

  204 We should not, however, apply the ecclesiastical censures pronounced
      against Baius to the writings of Vasquez. This, as Schiffini
      convincingly shows (De Gratia Divina, pp. 159 sqq.), would be an
      injustice.

  205 Suarez, De Gratia, I, 8, 46: “... quia secundum Augustini et divi
      Thomae sententiam communis a theologis probatam non datur in
      voluntate libere operante actus indifferens in individuo, et ideo
      iuxta veram theologiam recte sequitur, si liberum arbitrium potest
      sine gratia non male operari, posse etiam bene.”

  206 Supra, p. 8.

  207 “Quâ vero parte inter dominantem cupiditatem et caritatem
      dominantem nulli ponuntur affectus medii, a natura ipsa insiti
      suapteque naturâ laudabiles ... falsa, alias damnata.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1524.)

  208 De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 20, sect. 2: “Quotiescunque homo
      agit quod sibi datum est, ut actum virtutis naturalem efficiat, iam
      adesse antecedenter Deum auxilio intrinsece supernaturali gratiae,
      ... ita [ut] nullus sit conatus moraliter bonus naturae, quem aliqua
      gratia supernaturalis non praeveniat.”

  209 This must be kept in mind in judging Ripalda’s famous thesis: “Ad
      quodlibet bonum opus morale sive ad quemlibet virtutis moralis actum
      necessarium esse per se naturae rationali elevatae auxilium
      theologicum gratiae.” (Ibid., sect. 3.)

  210 He urges the supernatural character, in principle, of the present
      economy of salvation; the practical identity of the naturally good
      with the supernaturally salutary acts of the will, which he claims
      is taught in Sacred Scripture (cfr. Acts XIV, 14 sqq.; Rom. I, 19
      sqq.), and also by St. Augustine and his disciples Prosper and
      Orosius; the merciful dispensation of grace towards heathens,
      unbelievers, and sinners (v. infra, Sect. 3, Art. 2); the
      universal belief of Christians in the salutary effects of all good
      works, including those of the purely natural order, etc. For a
      discussion of these arguments consult Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, pp. 254 sqq.

  211 Synopsis de Gratia, n. 530.

  212 Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. V, p. 72.

  213 De Virtute Fidei Divinae, disp. 12, sect. 2.

  214 Instit. Theolog., Vol. III, pp. 22 sq., 248 sqq.

  215 De Gratia Div. Actuali, p. 268: “Si tamen ad solos fideles
      coarctetur, quum nulla argumenta obstent et pro hac hypothesi maxime
      valeant rationes Ripaldae, eam censemus veram esse.”

  216 V. supra, No. 1.

  217 Cfr. Mazzella, De Gratia Christi, disp. 2, art. 9.

  218 V. supra, p. 71.

  219 “Fides late dicta ex testimonio creaturarum similive motivo ad
      iustificationem sufficit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1173.)

  220 Conc. Vat., Sess. III, De Fide, can. 2: “Si quis dixerit, ... ad
      fidem divinam non requiri, ut revelata veritas propter auctoritatem
      Dei revelantis credatur, anathema sit.” On this whole dispute cfr.
      Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 156 sqq. The arguments adduced by
      the defenders of Ripalda’s opinion can be studied in Palmieri, De
      Gratia Divina Actuali, pp. 265 sqq. Cfr. also Scheeben, Dogmatik,
      Vol. III, pp. 996 sqq. A difficulty arises from the twenty-second
      canon of the Second Council of Orange (A. D. 529): “Nemo habet de
      suo nisi mendacium et peccatum.” But this canon was probably never
      approved by the Holy See. It is ably discussed by Gutberlet in his
      continuation of Heinrich’s Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, §
      415.

  221 “Ex viribus suis [natura] coram Deo nihil nisi peccare potest.”
      (Solida Declar., I, § 22.) Cfr. J. A. Möhler, Symbolik, § 6-7
      (English tr. by J. B. Robertson, Symbolism, 5th ed., London 1906,
      pp. 54 sqq.)

  222 Conc.

  224 A. D. 1585-1638. Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, op. cit., pp. 223 sqq.

  225 On this important document (issued A. D. 1713) see A. Schill, Die
      Konstitution Unigenitus, Freiburg 1876; Thuillier, La Seconde
      Phase du Jansénisme, Paris 1901; M. Ott, art. “Unigenitus” in Vol.
      XV of the Catholic Encyclopedia.

  226 Prop. Damn., 38.

  227 Prop. Damn., 44. 40.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1523).

  229 Prop. Damn., 59: “Oratio impiorum est novum peccatum, et quod
      Deus illis concedit, est novum in eos iudicium.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1409.)

  230 This passage, and the meaning it evidently bears in the context of
      St. Matthew’s Gospel, is thoroughly discussed by Suarez, De
      Gratia, I, 4. Cfr. also J. B. Faure, Notae in Enchiridion S.
      August., c. 15. Other Scriptural texts distorted by the Jansenists
      are quoted and explained in their true sense by Scheeben,
      Dogmatik, Vol. III, pp. 923 sqq.

  231 Hom. in Is., 5, n. 2.

  232 “Scimus autem quia peccatores Deus non audit.”

  233 Tract. in Ioa., 44, n. 13: “Adhuc inunctus loquitur; nam et
      peccatores exaudit Deus. Si enim peccatores Deus non exaudiret,
      frustra ille publicanus oculos in terram demittens et pectus suum
      percutiens diceret: Domine, propitius esto mihi peccatori [Luc.
      XVIII, 13].”

  234 Contr. Collat., n. 36: “Naturae humanae, cuius creator est Deus,
      etiam post praevaricationem manet substantia, manet forma, manet
      vita et sensus et ratio ceteraque corporis et animi bona, quae etiam
      malis vitiosisque non desunt. Sed non illis veri boni perceptio est,
      quae mortalem vitam honestare possunt, aeternam conferre non
      possunt.” For additional Patristic texts in confirmation of our
      thesis see Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, t. III, disp. 20, sect.
      4.

  235 Enchiridion, c. 117, n. 31: “Regnat carnalis cupiditas, ubi non
      est Dei caritas.”

  236 De Gratia Christi, c. 26: “Ubi non est dilectio, nullum bonum
      opus imputatur, non recte bonum opus vocatur, quia omne quod non est
      ex fide peccatum est et fides per dilectionem operatur.”

  237 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrìo, c. 18: “Praecepta dilectionis, i.e.
      caritatis, tanta et talia sunt, ut quidquid se putaverit homo facere
      bene, si fiat sine caritate, nullo modo fiat bene.”

  238 Cfr. supra, p. 29.

  239 Proposit. Baii Damn., 38: “Omnis amor creaturae rationalis aut
      vitiosa est cupiditas quâ mundus diligitur, quae a Ioanne
      prohibetur, aut laudabilis caritas quâ per Spiritum Sanctum in corde
      diffusa Deus amatur.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1038.)

  240 Prop. Quesnelli Damn., 45: “Amore Dei in corde peccatorum non
      amplius regnante necesse est, ut in eo carnalis regnet cupiditas
      omnesque actiones eius corrumpat.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1395.)

  241 Infra, Ch. III, Sect. 1.

  242 Especially against Julian of Eclanum. Cfr. Contra Iulianum, IV, 3.

  243 Matth. VI, 24.

  244 Retract., I, 15: “Quando peccatum tale est, ut idem sit poena
      peccati, quantum est quod valet voluntas sub dominante cupiditate,
      nisi forte, si pia est, ut oret auxilium?”

  245 Prop. Baii Damn., 40: “In omnibus suis actibus peccator servit
      dominanti cupiditati.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1040.)

  246 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 27, n. 48: “Si hi qui naturaliter, quae
      legis sunt, faciunt, nondum sunt habendi in numero eorum quos
      Christi iustificat gratia [Rom. II, 24], sed in eorum potius, quorum
      (etiam impiorum nec Deum verum veraciter iusteque colentium) quaedam
      tamen facta vel legimus vel novimus vel audimus, quae secundum
      iustitiae regulam non solum vituperare non possumus, verum etiam
      merito recteque laudamus; quamquam si discutiantur, quo fine fiant,
      vix inveniuntur quae iustitiae debitam laudem defensionemve
      mereantur.”

  247 Serm. de Temp., 349, c. 1, 1 sq.: “Caritas alia est divina, alia
      humana; alia est humana licita, alia illicita.... Prius ergo loquor
      de humana licita, quae non reprehenditur; deinde de humana illicita,
      quae damnatur; tertio de divina, quae nos perducit ad regnum....
      Licitam ergo caritatem habete; humana est, sed ut dixi licita, sed
      ita licita ut, si defuerit, reprehendatur. Liceat vobis humanâ
      caritate diligere coniuges, diligere filios, diligere amicos
      vestros, diligere cives vestros. Sed videtis istam caritatem esse
      posse et impiorum, i.e. paganorum, Iudaeorum, haereticorum. Quis
      enim eorum non amat uxorem, filios, fratres, vicinos, affines,
      amicos? Haec ergo humana est. Si ergo tali quisque crudelitate
      effertur, ut perdat etiam humanum dilectionis affectum, et non amat
      filios suos, ... nec inter homines numerandus est.” (Migne, P.
      L., XXXIX, 1529.)

  248 Institutiones Theologicae, Vol. III, p. 23.

  249 As explained above, pp. 71 sqq.

  250 Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1524. On the teaching of St. Augustine, see
      J. Mausbach, Die Ethik des hl. Augustinus, Vol. II, pp. 260 sqq.,
      Freiburg 1909.

  251 Cfr. supra, Art. 1.

  252 On these and similar formulas see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, thes. 22.

  254 For details of his life see J. Pohle, art. “Pelagius and
      Pelagianism” in Vol. XI of the Catholic Encyclopedia.

  255 Impeccantia, ἀναμαρτησία.

  256 Cfr. St. Augustine, De Haeres. ad Quodvultdeum, n. 88.

  257 “Hoc est occultum et horrendum virus haeresis vestrae, ut velitis
      gratiam Christi in exemplo eius esse, non in dono eius, dicentes
      quia per eius imitationem fiunt iusti, non per subministrationem
      Spiritus Sancti.” (S. Aug., Opus Imperf. contr. Iulian., II,
      146.)

  258 On the regnum coelorum in contradistinction to vita aeterna, in
      the teaching of Pelagius, see St. Augustine, De Pecc. Mer. et
      Rem., I, 18 sqq.

  259 V. infra, Sect. 2.

  260 V. supra, p. 8.

  261 e.g. Petavius, De Pelag. et Semipelag., c. 8 sq.; Wirceburg.,
      De Gratia, n. 182; Palmieri, De Gratia Div. Actuali, pp. 140
      sqq.

  262 Among them Suarez, Prolegom. de Gratia, c. 3, and J. Scheeben,
      Dogmatik, Vol. III, pp. 739 sq.

  263 “Quicunque dixerit, ideo nobis gratiam iustificationis dari, ut
      quod facere per liberum iubemur arbitrium facilius possimus implere
      per gratiam, tamquam etsi gratia non daretur, non quidem facile, sed
      tamen possimus etiam sine illa implere divina mandata, anathema
      sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 105.)

  264 “Si quis per naturae vigorem bonum aliquod, quod ad salutem
      pertinet vitae aeternae, cogitare ut expedit aut eligere sive
      salutari, i.e. evangelicae praedicationi consentire posse confirmat
      absque illuminatione et inspiratione Spiritus Sancti, qui dat
      omnibus suavitatem in consentiendo et credendo veritati, haeretico
      fallitur spiritu.” (Can. 7, quoted by Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 180.)

  265 Sess. VI, can. 2: “Si quis dixerit, ad hoc solum divinam gratiam
      per Iesum Christum dari, ut facilius homo iuste vivere ac vitam
      aeternam promereri possit, quasi per liberum arbitrium sine gratia
      utrumque, sed aegre tamen et difficulter possit, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 812.)

  266 “Sicut palmes non potest ferre fructum a semetipso, nisi manserit
      in vite: sic nec vos, nisi in me manseritis. Ego sum vitis, vos
      palmites: qui manet in me, et ego in eo, hic fert fructum multum:
      quia sine me nihil potestis facere (ὅτι χωρὶσ ἐμοῦ οὐ δύνασθε
      ποιεῖν οὐδέν).”

  267 St. Augustine, Tract. in Ioa., 81, n. 3: “Non ait, quia sine me
      parum potestis facere, sed nihil potestis facere. Sive ergo parum
      sive multum, sine illo fieri non potest, sine quo nihil fieri
      potest.”

  268 Cfr. John XV, 3.
      Cornely, Comment. in h. l., Paris 1892.

  270 “Moysi enim dicit: Miserebor cuius misereor et misericordiam
      praestabo cuius miserebor. Igitur non volentis neque currentis (οὐ
      τοῦ θέλοντος οὐδὲ τοῦ τρέχοντος), sed miserentis est Dei.” (Rom.
      IX, 15 sq.)

  271 “Deus est enim, qui operatur in vobis et velle et perficere (καὶ
      τὸ θέλειν καὶ τὸ ἐνεργεῖν) pro bona voluntate.” (Phil. II, 13.)

  272 “Nemo potest dicere: Dominus Iesus, nisi in Spiritu Sancto.” (1
      Cor. XII, 3.)

  273 Cfr. Matth. VII, 21; VIII, 29.

  274 Others explain the passage 1 Cor. XII, 3 differently. Cfr. also Rom.
      VIII, 26; Phil. I, 6; Eph. II, 5 sqq.

  275 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, c. 4: “Talis est haeresis
      pelagiana, non antiqua, sed ante non multum tempus exorta.”

  276 “Desinat, si res ita sunt, incessere novitas vetustatem.”

  277 Adv. Haer., III, 17, 2: “Sicut arida terra, si non percipiat
      humorem, non fructificat, sic et nos lignum aridum existentes
      nunquam fructificaremus vitam sine superna voluntaria pluvia.... Non
      a nobis, sed a Deo est bonum salutis nostrae.”

  278 “Legem credendi lex statuat supplicandi. Quum enim sanctarum
      plebium praesules madatâ sibi legatione fungantur apud divinam
      clementiam, humani generis agunt causam et tota secum Ecclesia
      congemiscente postulant et precantur, ut infidelibus donetur fides,
      ut idololatrae ab impietatis suae liberentur erroribus, ut Iudaeis
      ablato cordis velamine lux veritatis appareat, ut haeretici
      catholicae fidei perceptione resipiscant, ut schismatici spiritum
      redivivae caritatis accipiant, ut lapsis poenitentiae remedia
      conferantur, ut denique catechumenis ad regenerationis sacramenta
      perductis coelestis misericordiae aula reseretur.” (Migne, P. L.,
      XLV, 1759.)

  279 For additional Patristic texts see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, thes. 26.

  280 Hom. in 1 Cor., 7.

  281 De Civitate Dei, XII, 9: “Istam [bonam voluntatem] quis fecerat
      nisi ille, qui eos cum bona voluntate, i.e. cum amore casto quo illi
      adhaererent creavit, simul eis et condens naturam et largiens
      gratiam?... Confitendum est igitur cum debita laude Creatoris, non
      ad solos sanctos homines pertinere, verum etiam de sanctis angelis
      posse dici, quod caritas Dei diffusa sit in eis per Spiritum
      Sanctum, qui datus est eis.”

  282 Enchiridion, c. 106: “Sicut mori est in hominis potestate, quum
      velit, ... ad vitam vero tenendam voluntas non satis est, si
      adiutoria sive alimentorum sive quorumcunque tutaminum desint, sic
      homo in paradiso ad se occidendum relinquendo iustitiam idoneus erat
      per voluntatem; ut autem ab eo teneretur vita iustitiae, parum erat
      velle nisi ille, qui eum fecerat, adiuvaret.”

  283 Can. 19: “Natura humana, etiamsi in illa integritate in qua est
      condita permaneret, nullo modo seipsam, Creatore suo non adiuvante,
      servaret. Unde quum sine gratia Dei salutem non possit custodire
      quae accepit, quomodo sine Dei gratia poterit reparare quod
      perdidit?” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 192.)—St. Augustine holds that
      our first parents would have been able to preserve the state of
      grace by the divine adiutorium sine quo non, and that consequently
      the adiutorium quo would have been superfluous to them. On this
      subtle question cfr. Pesch, Praelectiones Dogmaticae, Vol. V, pp.
      55 sqq., and Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 472 sqq. Et ideo sine gratia homo non potest mereri vitam aeternam.
      Potest tamen facere opera perducentia ad bonum aliquod homini
      connaturale, sicut laborare in agro, bibere, manducare et habere
      amicum et alia huiusmodi.”

  285 For the necessary Augustinian citations in proof of this assertion
      see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, pp. 174 sqq.

  287 V. supra, pp. 20.

  288 V. supra, pp. 26 sq.

  289 V. supra, pp. 69 sqq.

  290 On the teaching of Scotus himself with regard to this point cfr.

  291 This is true of man even in the exalted state in which he existed in
      Paradise. It is true also of the angels. It is true even of the
      human nature of our Lord Jesus Christ Himself. Cfr. Pohle-Preuss,
      Christology, pp. 221 sqq.

  293 Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, p. 184.

  294 Suarez, De Necessitate Gratiae, II, 4.

  295 On the whole subject of this Article cfr. S. Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 227 sqq.; Rademacher, Natur und Gnade, M. Gladbach
      1908.

  296 Died 432. On his life and works see Bardenhewer-Shahan, Patrology,
      pp. 515 sqq.

  297 Reproduced in Migne, P. L., XLIX, 477-1328.

  298 This contention is false, but it has never been proscribed as
      heretical. Prosper says in his Ep. 226, 5: “Tales aiunt perdi
      talesque [infantes] salvari, quales futures illos in annis
      maioribus, si ad activam servarentur vitam, scientia divina
      praeviderit.” On this absurd assertion see Pohle-Preuss, God: His
      Knowability, Essence, and Attributes, pp. 380 sq.

  299 De Praedest. Sanctorum, c. 3, n. 7: “... putans fidem, quâ in
      Deum credimus, non esse donum Dei, sed a nobis esse in nobis et per
      illam nos impetrare Dei dona, quibus temperanter et iuste et pie
      vivamus in hoc saeculo.”

  300 Cfr. Denzinger-Bannwart, Enchiridion, n. 128 sqq.

  302 Cfr. F. Wörter, Zur Dogmengeschichte des Semipelagianismus,
      Münster 1900.

  303 Conc. Arausic. II, can. 5 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 178): “Si quis
      sicut augmentum, ita etiam initium fidei ipsumque credulitatis
      affectum, quo in eum credimus qui iustificat impium et ad
      regenerationem sacri baptismatis pervenimus, non per gratiae donum,
      i.e. per inspirationem Spiritus S., ... sed naturaliter nobis inesse
      dicit, apostolicis dogmatibus adversarius approbatur.” Cfr. Conc.
      Vatican., Sess. III, cap. 3. (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1791).

  304 In his treatise De Praedestinatione Sanctorum.

  305 In his work Adversus Collatorem.

  306 Discernit, διακρίνει.

  307 Per fidem, διὰ πίστεως.

  308 Non ex vobis, οὐκ ἐξ ὑμῶν.

  309 Dei donum, θεοῦ τὸ δῶρον.

  310 Non ex operibus, οὐκ ἐξ ἔργων.

  311 Eph. II, 8 sq.

  312 Cfr. Rom. III, 20 sqq., IX, 15 sqq.

  315 Ep., 177: “Oratio est clarissima gratiae testificatio.”

  316 Dial. c. Tryph.

  317 De Dono Persev., c. 19, n. 50: “Isti tales tantique doctores
      dicentes non esse aliquid, de quo tamquam de nostro quod nobis Deus
      non dederit gloriemur nec ipsum cor nostrum et cogitationes nostras
      in potestate nostra esse, ... haec utique gratiae Dei tribuunt, Dei
      munera agnoscunt, ab ipso nobis, non a nobis esse testantur.”—For
      additional Patristic texts see Palmieri, De Gratia Div. Act., pp.
      290 sqq.

  319 Hom. in Heb., 12, n. 3.

  320 V. infra, Ch. III, Sect. 1.

  321 De Praedest. Sanct., c. 14: “Quid opus est ut eorum scrutemur
      opuscula, qui priusquam ista haeresis oriretur, non habuerunt
      necessitatem in hac difficili ad solvendum quaestione versari? Quod
      procul dubio facerent, si respondere talibus cogerentur. Unde factum
      est, ut de gratia Dei quid sentirent breviter quibusdam scriptorum
      suorum locis et transeunter attingerent.”

  322 De Gratia Div. Act., p. 288.

  323 Cfr. Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, l. I, disp. 17, sect. 11.

  324 Ep., 24 (to Maximilian, Patriarch of Constantinople): “Sequere
      priorum, a quibus eruditus es et nutritus, exempla pontificum,
      beatissimi Ioannis scientiam, sancti Attici in repugnandis
      haeresibus vigilantiam.”

  325 Hom. in 1 Cor., XII, n. 2.

  326 Hom. in Ep. ad Hebr., XII, 2.

  327 Αὐτὸς ἐν ἡμῖν πίστιν ἐνέθησεν, αὐτὸς τὴν ἀρχὴν ἔδωκεν.

  328 They are fully explained by Palmieri, l.c., pp. 295 sqq.

  329 Die Lehre von der Heiligung, p. 161, Paderborn 1885.

  330 V. supra, pp. 19 sqq., 27 sq.

  331 De Praedest. Sanct., c. 2, p. 5: “Attendant hic et verba
      perpendant, qui putant ex nobis esse fidei coeptum et ex Deo esse
      fidei supplementum. Quis enim non videat prius esse cogitare quam
      credere? Nullus quippe credit aliquid nisi prius cogitaverit esse
      credendum.... Quod ergo pertinet ad religionem atque pietatem, si
      non sumus idonei cogitare aliquid quasi ex nobismet ipsis, sed
      sufficientia nostra ex Deo est, profecto non sumus idonei credere
      aliquid quasi ex nobismet ipsis, quod sine cogitatione non possumus,
      sed sufficientia nostra, quâ credere incipiamus, ex Deo est.”—Cfr.
      also the seventh canon of the Second Council of Orange
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 180), and Suarez, De Fide, disp. 6, sect.
      7 sq.; IDEM, De Gratia, III, 7.

  332 Conc. Arausic. II, can. 7.

  333 Sess. VI, can. 3: “Si quis dixerit, sine praeveniente Spiritus
      Sancti inspiratione atque eius adiutorio hominem credere, sperare,
      diligere aut poenitere posse, sicut oportet, ut ei iustificationis
      gratia conferatur, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 813.)

  334 Supra, pp. 87 sqq.

  335 John XV, 5: “Sine me nihil potestis facere.”

  336 Contra Duas Epistolas Pelag., II, 8: “Dominus ut responderet
      futuro Pelagio non ait: Sine me difficile potestis facere, sed ait:
      Sine me nihil potestis facere.... Non ait: sine me nihil potestis
      perficere, sed facere. Hoc uno verbo initium finemque
      comprehendit.”

  337 Phil. XV, 13: “Deus autem spei repleat vos omni gaudio et pace in
      credendo (ἐν τῷ πιστεύειν), ut abundetis in spe (ἐν τῇ ἐλπίδι) et
      virtute Spiritus Sancti.”

  339 1 John IV, 7: “Caritas ex Deo est (ἡ ἀγάπη ἐκ τοῦ Θεοῦ ἐστιν).”
      Cfr. also John VI, 44 sqq., which text is fully explained by
      Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 128 sqq.

  340 Enchiridion, c. 32: “Porro si nullus dicere Christianus audebit:
      Non miserentis est Dei, sed volentis est hominis, ne Apostolo
      apertissime contradicat, restat ut propterea dictum intelligatur
      (Rom. IX, 16): Non volentis neque currentis, sed miserentis est
      Dei, ut totum Deo detur, qui hominis voluntatem bonam et
      praeparat adiuvandam et adiuvat praeparatam. Praecedit enim bona
      voluntas hominis multa Dei dona, sed non omnia; quae autem non
      praecedit ipsa, in iis est et ipsa. Nam utrumque legitur in sanctis
      eloquiis: et (Ps. LVIII, 11): Misericordia eius praeveniet
      me, et (Ps. XXII, 6): Misericordia eius subsequetur me. Cur enim admonemur orare pro inimicis nostris, utique
      nolentibus pie vivere, nisi ut Deus in illis operetur et velle?
      Itemque cur admonemur petere ut accipiamus, nisi ut ab illo fiat
      quod volumus, a quo factum est ut velimus? Oramus ergo pro inimicis
      nostris, ut misericordia Dei praeveniat eos, sicut praevenit et nos;
      oramus autem pro nobis, ut misericordia eius subsequatur nos.” On
      this important passage cfr. J. B. Faure, Notae in Enchiridion S.
      Augustini, c. 32. Similar expressions will be found in Contra Duas
      Epist. Pelag., II, 9 and De Gratia et Lib. Arb., c. 17.

  341 Ep. ad Ctesiph., 133: “Velle et currere meum est, sed ipsum meum
      sine Dei semper auxilio non erit meum; dicit enim Apostolus (Phil. Marg.

  343 Conc. Arausic. II.

  345 Cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 132 sq.

  346 Perrone, De Gratia, n. 203: “Quaestio haec non ad scholasticas
      quaestiones pertinet, sed est dogma fidei ab Ecclesia definitum.”

  347 Sess. VI, cap. Tepe,
      Institutiones Theologicae, Vol. III, pp. 41 sqq., Paris 1896.

  348 John XV, 5.

  349 V. supra, pp. 87 sq. Other pertinent Scriptural texts are: 2 Cor.
      III, 5; Phil. II, 12 sq.; III, 13 sq.; Heb. XIII, 21.

  350 De Gratia et Lib. 28.

  353 Thus Molina (Concord., qu. 14, art. 13 disp. 8), Bellarmine (De
      Gratia et Lib. Arb., VI, 15), and Thomassin; the question is well
      treated by Ruiz, De Providentia Divina, disp. 41, sect. 5 sq.

  354 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 399,
      Mainz 1897.

  355 Cfr. Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 106, sect. 3 sqq.

  356 Impeccantia, ἀναμαρτησία.

  357 “Item placuit ut quicunque ipsa verba dominicae orationis, ubi
      dicimus: Dimitte nobis debita nostra, ita volunt a sanctis dici, ut
      humiliter hoc, non veraciter dicatur, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 108.)

  358 Sess. VI, can. 23: “Si quis hominem semel iustificatum dixerit ...
      posse in tota vita peccata omnia etiam venialia vitare nisi ex
      speciali Dei privilegio, quemadmodum de beata virgine tenet
      Ecclesia, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 833.)

  359 On this privilege of our Blessed Lady see Pohle-Preuss, Mariology,
      pp. 72 sqq., St. Louis 1914.

  360 Sess. VI, cap. 11: “... quantumvis sancti et iusti in levia saltem
      et quotidiana, quae etiam venialia dicuntur, peccata quandoque
      cadunt.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 804.)

  361 De Gratia Divina Actuali, p. 236.

  362 Epistle of St. James, III, 2: “In multis enim offendimus omnes
      (πολλὰ γὰρ πταίομεν ἄπαντες).”

  363 1 John III, 6: “Omnis qui in eo [scil. Christo] manet, non
      peccat.”

  364 ὀφειλήματα.

  365 Matth. VI, 12. Cfr. Mark XI, 25.

  366 Prov. XX, 9: “Quis potest dicere: Mundum est cor meum, purus sum a
      peccato?”

  367 On this text cfr. J. V. Bainvel, Les Contresens Bibliques des
      Prédicateurs, 2nd ed., pp. 102 sq., Paris 1906: “... ces chutes
      sont surtout les souffrances, les tribulations. Le contexte
      l’indique clairement: ‹ N’attaquez pas le juste (15); car Dieu
      le defend, et s’il tombe il se relèvera; mais pour l’impie c’est la
      ruine irréparable. › Peut-on, comme on le fait d’ordinaire,
      entendre le texte des chutes morales, des péchés véniels? Plusieurs
      commentateurs répondent: non; et ils citent à l’appui saint
      Augustin: Septies cadet iustus et resurget, id est, quotiescumque
      cediderit, non peribit: quod non de iniquitatibus, sed de
      tribulationibus ad humilitatem perducentibus intelligi voluit (Civ.
      D. xi, 31).—D’autres Pères, saint Jérôme par exemple, sont moins
      exclusifs; et de fait, pourquoi la maxime, dans sa plénitude, ne
      comprendrait-elle pas toutes sortes de chutes, péchés ou
      afflictions? En tout cas, c’est aller trop loin que de vouloir
      prouver par là la thèse catholique sur l’impossibilité morale
      d’éviter pendant longtemps tout péché de fragilité. L’écrivain sacré
      veut dire autre chose, et nous avons des textes meilleures ...”

  368 Eccles. VII, 21: “Non est enim homo iustus in terra, qui faciat
      bonum et non peccet.”

  369 Ibid., v, 23: “Scit enim conscientia tua, quia et tu crebro
      maledixisti aliis.”

  370 1 John I, 8: “Si dixerimus, quoniam peccatum non habemus, ipsi nos
      seducimus et veritas in nobis non est.”

  371 E.g. 1 John I, 10, III, 4, III 8, et passim.

  372 The Johannine text here under consideration does, however, furnish a
      telling argument against the Pelagians, in so far as they denied the
      necessity of the atonement. The passage is effectively employed for
      this purpose by the Second Council of Mileve (can. 6, quoted in
      Denzinger-Bannwart’s Enchiridion, n. 106). Cfr. Chr. Pesch,
      Praelectiones Dogmaticae, Vol. V, 3rd ed., p. 99 and Al. Wurm,
      Die Irrlehrer im ersten Johannesbrief, Freiburg 1903.

  373 De Dono Perseverantiae, c. 2, n. 4: “Tria sunt, ut scitis, quae
      maxime adversus eos [scil. Pelagianos] defendit Ecclesia, quorum est
      unum, gratiam Dei non secundum merita nostra dari.... Alterum est,
      in quantacunque iustitia sine qualibuscunque peccatis in hoc
      corruptibili corpore neminem vivere. Tertium est, obnoxium nasci
      hominem peccato primi hominis.”

  374 De Natura et Gratia, c. 35, n. 41: “Ubi parum attendit, quum sit
      acutissimus, non frustra etiam iustos in oratione dicere: Dimitte
      nobis debita nostra.... Etiamsi hic non vivatur sine peccato, licet
      mori sine peccato, dum subinde veniâ deletur, quod subinde
      ignorantiâ vel infirmitate committitur.”

  375 Ibid., c. 36.

  376 The above-quoted analogy is taken from Heinrich-Gutberlet,
      Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, p. 81.

  377 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 109, art. 8: “Non potest homo abstinere
      ab omni peccato veniali propter corruptionem inferioris appetitus
      sensualitatis, cuius motus singulos quidem ratio reprimere potest,
      et ex hoc habent rationem peccati et voluntarii, non autem omnes,
      quia dum uni resistere nititur, fortassis alius insurgit, et etiam
      quia ratio non potest semper esse pervigil ad huiusmodi motus
      vitandos.”

  378 Sardagna (De Gratia, n. 336) incorrectly asserts this.

  379 Cfr. Tepe, Instit. Theolog., Vol. III. pp. 47 sq.

  380 Cfr. St. Augustine, Contra Iulian., IV, 3, 28: “Ideo factum est
      in loco infirmitatis, ne superbe viveremus, ut sub quotidiana
      peccatorum remissione vivamus.”

  381 Andr. de Vega, De Iustificatione Doctrina Universa, 1. XIV, cap.
      ult.

  382 Suarez, De Gratia, IX, 8, 14: “quia si vel in uno homine posset
      contingere, ut illa duo coniungerentur, scil. carere speciali
      privilegio et nihilominus cavere omne peccatum veniale per totam
      vitam, propositio Concilii esset simpliciter falsa; nam est absoluta
      et universalis, ad cuius falsitatem satis est quod in uno
      deficiat.”

  383 Aug., Ep., 181, n. 8: “Nemo itaque dicat, se esse sine peccato,
      sed non tamen ideo debemus amare peccatum. Oderimus ea, fratres;
      etsi non sumus sine peccatis, oderimus tamen ea, et maxime a
      criminibus nos abstineamus; abstineamus quantum possumus a levibus
      peccatis.”—On the whole subject of this thesis cfr. Schiffini, De
      Gratia Divina, pp. 181 sqq.

  384 V. supra, pp. 98 sqq.

  385 Conc. Arausic. II, can. 10: “Adiutorium Dei etiam renatis ac
      sanctis semper est implorandum, ut ad finem bonum pervenire vel in
      bono possint opere perdurare.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 183.)

  386 Sess. VI, can. 22: “Si quis dixerit, iustificatum vel sine speciali
      auxilio Dei in accepta iustitia perseverare posse vel cum eo non
      posse, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 832.)

  387 Sess. VI, cap. 11: “Deus namque suâ gratiâ semel iustificatos non
      deserit, nisi ab eis prius deseratur.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      804.)

  388 Cfr. Wisd. IV, 11: “Raptus est, ne malitia mutaret intellectum
      eius.”

  389 Sess. VI, can.

  390 John XVII, 11: “Pater sancte, serva eos in nomine tuo (τήρησον
      αὐτοὺς ἐν τῷ ὀνόματί σου), quos dedisti mihi, ut sint unum, sicut
      et nos.”

  391 Col. IV, 12: “Salutat vos Epaphras ... semper sollicitus pro vobis
      in orationibus, ut stetis perfecti (ἵνα στῆτε τέλειοι) et pleni in
      omni voluntate Dei.”

  392 Matth. XXVI, 41: “Vigilate, et orate, ut non intretis in
      tentationem.”

  393 Phil. I, 6: “... confidens hoc ipsum, quia qui coepit in vobis opus
      bonum, perficiet (ἐπιτελέσει) usque in diem Christi Iesu.”

  394 1 Pet. I, 5: “...qui in virtute Dei custodimini per fidem in
      salutem, paratam revelari in tempore novissimo.”—For Old Testament
      texts in confirmation of this thesis see Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 198 sq.

  395 De Dono Perseverantiae. An English translation of this treatise
      may be found in The Anti-Pelagian Works of Saint Augustine, Bishop
      of Hippo, Translated by Peter Holmes and R. E. Wallis, Vol. III,
      pp. 171 sqq. (Vol. XV of Dods’ translation of the Works of St.
      Augustine), Edinburg 1876.

  396 De Dono Perseverantiae, c. 2, n. 3: “Cur autem perseverantia ista
      poscitur a Deo, si non datur a Deo? An et ista irrisoria petitio
      est, quum id ab eo petitur quod scitur non ipsum dare, sed ipso non
      dante esse in hominis potestate?... An ab illo perseverantia ista
      forte non poscitur? Iam hoc qui dicit, non meis disputationibus
      refellendus, sed sanctorum orationibus onerandus est. An vero
      quisquam eorum est, qui non sibi poscat a Deo ut perseveret in eo,
      quum ipsâ oratione quae dominica nuncupatur, quia eam Dominus
      docuit, quando oratur a sanctis, nihil paene aliud quam
      perseverantia posci intelligatur?”

  397 Op. cit., c. 7, n. 15: “Prorsus in hac re non operosas
      disputationes exspectet Ecclesia, sed attendat quotidianas orationes
      suas. Orat ut increduli credant: Deus ergo convertit ad fidem. Orat
      ut credentes perseverent; Deus ergo donat perseverantiam usque in
      finem.”

  398 Op. cit., c. 23, n. 63: “Quis enim veraciter gemat desiderans
      accipere quod orat a Domino, si hoc a seipso se sumere existimet,
      non ab illo?”

  399 Op. cit., c. 6, n. 10: “Hoc Dei donum suppliciter emereri potest,
      sed quum datum fuerit, amitti contumaciter non potest.”

  400 Op. cit., c. 16, n. 39: “... quum constet Deum alia danda etiam
      non orantibus, sicut initium fidei, alia nonnisi orantibus
      praeparasse, sicut in finem perseverantiam, profecto qui ex se ipso
      se hanc habere putat, non orat ut habeat.”

  401 De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 94, sect. 2.

  402 Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 38: “Infallibilitas non convenit merito
      de congruo ratione sui, ut ita dicam, sed ratione impetrationis quae
      propriae soli orationi, ut talis est, respondet. Ratio est, quia
      haec infallibilitas solum fundatur in promissione divina, quae non
      invenitur facta operibus iustorum quatenus meritoriis de congruo,
      sed tantum orationi; quare ut fructus huius meriti certior sit,
      adiungenda semper est petitio perseverantiae.”

  403 John XVI, 23.

  404 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 38, n. 14: “... quia ut oratio
      habeat perseverantiam debitam, perdurare debet cum illis
      circumstantiis moralibus, quas a principio habere etiam debuit, ut
      congrue fieret; unde eo ipso quod novum impedimentum ponitur
      [peccando] effectui orationis, deficit perseverantia in orando,
      saltem debito modo.”

  405 Ibid., n. 17: “Igitur perseverantia orationis in tali materia
      requisita est, ut non semel tantum aut iterum fiat, set ut toto
      tempore vitae duret, et praesertim ut in occurrentibus occasionibus
      servandi mandata aut vincendi tentationes cum debita fiducia
      repetatur.”—For more detailed information we must refer the reader
      to Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 36, n. vi sqq. The
      theological argument for our thesis is convincingly set forth by
      Gutberlet in Heinrich’s Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 404.
      The donum perseverantiae must not be confounded with the
      confirmatio in gratia; on this point see Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 197 sqq. 114, art. 1: “Meritum
      et merces ad idem referuntur. Id enim merces dicitur quod alicui
      recompensatur pro retributione operis vel laboris quasi quoddam
      pretium ipsius. Unde sicut reddere iustum pretium pro re accepta ab
      aliquo est actus iustitiae, ita etiam recompensare mercedem operis
      vel laboris est actus iustitiae.” Cfr. Taparelli, Saggio Teoretico
      del Diritto Naturale, diss. 1, c. 6, n. 130, Palermo 1842.

  408 “This word is scarcely used in modern English, except as expressing
      that punishment which is fully deserved, a usage originating with
      the Tudor Parliaments; but it was once commonly used in the language
      in a wider sense, for whatever had been justly earned, and some
      attempts to revive it have been made in recent times; certainly some
      word is wanted to express the idea.” (Hunter, Outlines of Dogmatic
      Theology, Vol. III, pp. 58 sq.) Cfr. Dr. Murray’s New English
      Dictionary, Vol. II, p. 784, Oxford 1893.

  409 Eck did not, however, approve the term meritum de condigno; he
      preferred meritum digni. Cfr. J. Greving, Johann Eck als junger
      Gelehrter, pp. 153 sqq., Münster 1906.

  410 Cfr. St. Augustine, In Ps., 86: “Debitorem Deus ipse fecit se,
      non accipiendo, sed promittendo.” On this point consult
      Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability, Essence, and Attributes, pp.
      455 sqq.

  411 Oratio, preces.

  412 Capacitas, dispositio.

  413 Vasquez, Comment. in S. Theol. S. Thomae Aquin., 1a 2ae, disp.
      216, c. 4.

  414 Already in the fourth century the Church emphasized the proposition
      “Gratiam Christi non secundum merita dari” against Pelagius.

  415 Cfr. St. Augustine, Ep. 194 ad Sixt., n. 19: Vita etiam
      aeterna, quam certum est bonis operibus debitam reddi, ab Apostolo
      tamen gratia nuncupatur, nec ideo quia meritis non datur, sed quia
      data sunt ipsa merita, quibus datur. VI, cap. 16, quoted in Denzinger-Bannwart’s
      Enchiridion, n. 809.)

  416 For further information on this point see Palmieri, De Gratia
      Divina Actuali, thes. 35.

  417 V. supra, pp. 83 sqq.

  418 “Gratiam Dei secundum merita nostra dari.”

  419 “Debetur merces bonis operibus, si fiant; sed gratia quae non
      debetur praecedit, ut fiant.” (Arausic. II, can. 18; see
      Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 191.)

  420 “... ipsius iustificationis exordium in adultis a Dei per Christum
      Iesum praeveniente gratia sumendum esse, h. e. ab eius vocatione,
      quâ nullis eorum existentibus meritis vocantur.” (Sess. VI, cap. 5.
      Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 797.)

  421 Rom. IX, 16: “Igitur non volentis neque currentis, sed miserentis
      est Dei.”

  422 Rom. IX, 18: “Ergo cuius vult miseretur et quem vult indurat (ἄρα
      οὖν θέλει δ᾽ δε θέλει σκληρύνει.”)

  423 Rom. XI, 6: “Si autem gratiâ, iam non ex operibus (ἐξ ἔργων),
      alioquin gratia iam non est gratia.”

  424 Eph. II, 8-10: “Gratiâ enim estis salvati per fidem et hoc non ex
      vobis: Dei enim donum est, non ex operibus, ut ne quis glorietur.
      Ipsius enim sumus factura (ποίημα), creati in Christo Iesu in
      operibus bonis, quae praeparavit Deus, ut in illis ambulemus.”

  425 E.g., 2 Cor. V, 14; Gal. III, 22; 2 Tim. I, 9; Tit. III, 5; 1 Pet.
      I, 3; 1 John IV, 10.

  426 Tract, in Ioa., 86: “Gratia non invenit, sed efficit merita.”

  427 Serm., 169, c. 2: Gratia praecessit meritum tuum, non gratia ex
      merito, sed meritum ex gratia. Nam si gratia ex merito, emisti non
      gratis accepisti. Other Patristic texts quoted by Ripalda, De
      Ente Supernaturali, disp. 15 sqq.

  428 V. supra, pp. 50 sqq.

  429 For a more extensive treatment of this important point the reader is
      referred to Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII,
      § 418, Mainz 1897.

  430 V. supra, p. 98.

  431 Can. XXV, 15: “Et uni dedit quinque talenta, alii autem duo, alii
      vero unum, unicuique secundum propriam virtutem (ἑκάστῳ κατὰ τὴν
      ἰδίαν δύναμιν).”

  434 Cfr. Maldonatus’ commentary on this text.

  435 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and the Supernatural,
      p. 326.

  436 De Praedest. Sanct., 3, 10, 31: “Nihil huic sensui tam contrarium
      est quam de suis meritis sic quemquam gloriari, tamquam ipse sibi ea
      fecerit, non Dei gratia, sed gratia quae bonos discernit a malis,
      non quae communis est bonis et malis.”

  437 De Peccato Orig., c. 24, n. 28: “Non enim gratia Dei erit ullo
      modo, nisi gratuita fuerit omni modo.”

  438 Cyril of Jerusalem (Catech., I, 17), Athanasius (C. Gent., n.
      30), Basil (Epist., 294: “Divinum auxilium in nostra situm est
      potestate”), Gregory of Nazianzus (Or., 31), and especially
      Chrysostom (Hom. in Gen., 12; Hom. in Epist. ad Rom., 2).

  439 Hom. in Epist. ad Ephes., 4.

  440 Hom. in 1 Epist. ad Cor., 12. Cfr. Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, thes. 33. 5: “Donum
      gratiae considerari potest dupliciter. Uno modo secundum rationem
      gratuiti doni, et sic manifestum est quod omne meritum repugnat
      gratiae, quia ut Rom. XI, 9 Apostolus dicit: Si autem gratia,
      iam non ex operibus. Altero modo potest considerari secundum
      naturam ipsius rei, quae donatur, et sic etiam non potest cadere sub
      merito non habentis gratiam, tum quia excedit proportionem naturae,
      tum etiam quia ante gratiam in statu peccati homo habet impedimentum
      promerendi gratiam, scil. ipsum peccatum. Postquam autem aliquis iam
      habet gratiam, non potest gratia iam habita sub merito cadere, quia
      merces est terminus operis, gratia autem est principium cuiuslibet
      boni operis in nobis.” This is equally true of the meritum de
      condigno and the meritum de congruo.

  442 John XVI, 24: “Petite et accipietis.”

  443 V. supra, theses I and II.

  444 “Si quis ad invocationem humanam [i.e. naturalem] gratiam Dei dicit
      posse conferri, non autem ipsam gratiam facere, ut invocetur a
      nobis, contradicit Isaiae prophetae vel Apostolo idem dicenti:
      Inventus sum a non quaerentibus me, palam apparui his, qui me non
      interrogabant.” (Can. 3, Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 176.)

  445 Rom. Attendant
      ergo, quomodo falluntur, qui putant esse a nobis, non dari nobis ut
      petamus, quaeramus, pulsemus, etc.”

  449 Cfr. Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 32.

  450 On this difficult question consult Ruiz, De Provid., disp. 18,
      sect. 3. and De Lugo, De Fide, disp. 12, sec. 3.

  451 De Praedest. Sanct., c. 12.

  453 Op. cit., pp. 228 sq.

  454 Further information on this head infra, Part II, Ch. III.

  455 Cfr. Pesch, Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. V, 3rd ed., pp. 117 sqq.

  456 À titre de curiosité we may note the opinion of Ripalda (De Ente
      Supernat., disp. 17, sect. 1) and Vasquez (Comment. in S. Theol.,
      1a, disp. 91, c. 10) that some pre-Tridentine theologians ascribed
      to nature the ability of positively disposing itself for actual
      graces and thereby, though in perfect good faith, entertained
      Semipelagian views. Even St. Thomas has been accused of conceding
      too much to Semipelagianism in two of his earlier works (Comment.
      in Quatuor Libros Sent., II, dist. 28, qu. 1, art. 4, and De
      Veritate, qu. 14, art. 11), though his teaching in the Summa is
      admittedly orthodox. On the extremely doubtful character of such a
      summary indictment see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes.
      34; Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 495 sqq., 542 sqq.; Glossner,
      Die Lehre des hl. Thomas von der Gnade, Mainz 1871.

  457 Vasquez, Comment. in S. Theol., 1a, disp. 91, c. 10-11.

  458 Dogmatik, Vol. II, pp. 191 sq., Ratisbon 1874.

  459 De Auxil., III, 2, 3.

  460 De Gratia Effic., c. 10.

  461 Disproved historically by Palmieri.

  463 Cfr. St. Augustine, De Praedest. Sanct., c. 15.

  464 Cfr. St. Augustine, Tract. in Ioa., 36, n. 4: “Venit Christus,
      sed primo salvare, postea iudicare, eos iudicando in poenam, qui
      salvari noluerunt, eos perducendo ad vitam, qui credendo salutem non
      respuerunt.”

  465 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Soteriology, pp. 75 sqq., St. Louis 1914.

  466 Sess. VI, can. 17: “Si quis iustificationis gratiam nonnisi
      praedestinatis ad vitam contingere dixerit, reliquos vero omnes qui
      vocantur, vocari quidem, sed gratiam non accipere, utpote divinâ
      potestate praedestinatos ad malum, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 827.)

  467 Prop. 5, apud Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1096. Cfr. Pohle-Preuss,
      Soteriology, p. 76.

  469 V. infra, Thesis II.

  470 πᾶς ὁ πιστεύων εἰς αὐτόν.

  471 Among them was one of our Lord’s own chosen Apostles.

  472 Wisd. XI, 24 sqq.: “Sed misereris omnium, quia omnia potes, et
      dissimulas peccata hominum propter poenitentiam. Diligis enim omnia
      quae sunt et nihil odisti eorum quae fecisti.... Parcis autem
      omnibus, quoniam tua sunt, Domine, qui amas animas.”

  473 1 Tim. II, 1 sqq.: “Obsecro igitur primum omnium fieri
      obsecrationes, orationes, postulationes, gratiarum actiones pro
      omnibus hominibus (ὑπερ πάντων ἀνθρώπων).... Hoc enim bonum est et
      acceptum coram Salvatore nostro Deo, qui omnes homines vult salvos
      fieri (ὁς πάντας ἀνθρώπους θέλει σωθῆναι) et ad agnitionem
      veritatis venire: unus enim Deus (εἴς γὰρ Θεός), unus et mediator
      (εἴς καὶ μεσίτης) Dei et hominum homo Christus Iesus, qui dedit
      redemptionem semetipsum pro omnibus (ὑπὲρ πάντων).”

  474 “Unus enim Deus.” Cfr. Rom. III, 29 sq., X, 12.

  475 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Soteriology, pp. 77 sqq.

  476 Cfr. Matth. XVIII, 11; 2 Cor. V, 15. That God’s will to redeem
      mankind is universal has been proved in Soteriology, pp. 77 sqq.

  477 Cfr. on this text Estius, Comment. in Epist.

  479 In Ps., 39, n. 20: “Ille omnes suos vult esse, quos condidit et
      creavit. Utinam tu homo non fugias et te abscondas! Ille etiam
      fugientes requirit et absconditos non vult perire.”

  480 Orat., 33, n. 9.

  486 Contra Iulian., IV, 8, 42: “Nemo salvatur nisi volente Deo.”

  487 De Corrept. et Gratia, c. 15, n. 47: “Omnes homines vult Deus
      salvos fieri, quoniam nos facit velle, sicut misit Spiritum Filii
      sui clamantem: Abba, pater, i.e. nos clamare facientem.”

  488 Confessiones, XII, 17 sqq.

  489 Faure has proved this in his Notae in Enchiridion S. Augustini, c.
      103, Naples 1847, pp. 195 sqq.

  490 Summa Theol., 1a, qu. 19, art. 6, ad 1. On Augustine’s teaching
      see Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 51 sq., and, less favorably,
      Bardenhewer-Shahan, Patrology, pp. 498 sqq., Freiburg 1908.

  491 E.g. Arrubal (Comment. in S. Theol., 1a, disp. 91, c. 3 sq.) and
      Kilber (Theol. Wirceburg., De Deo, disp. 4, c. 2, art. 3).

  492 Cfr. Albertus a Bulsano, Theol. Dogmat., ed. Graun, Vol. II, p.
      141, Innsbruck 1894.

  493 Cfr. Bellarmine, De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, II, 12: “... haec
      responsio non videtur digna Chritianis, qui providentiam Dei erga
      homines ex sacris literis et ecclesiastica traditione didicerunt.
      Nam si non cadit passer in terram sine Patre nostro, qui in coelis
      est, quanto magis nos apud Deum pluris sumus illis?”

  494 “Definimus illorum animas, qui in actuali mortali peccato vel solo
      originali decedunt, mox in infernum descendere.” (Decret.
      Unionis, quoted by Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 693.)

  495 Cfr. Pallavicini, Hist. Conc. Trid., IX, 8.

  496 It occurs in his commentary on the Summa, 3a, qu. 68, art. 2, 11.

  497 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, p. 295,
      Mainz 1897.

  499 Thesis II.

  500 Quoted supra, p. 156.

  501 Quoted supra, p. 157.

  502 On the whole question consult Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 53, 3rd
      ed., Rome 1883.

  503 On the notion and existence of sufficient grace see supra, Ch. I,
      Sect. 2, No. 6.

  504 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, can. 18: “Si quis dixerit, Dei
      praecepta homini etiam iustificato et sub gratia constituto esse ad
      observandum impossibilia, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      828). Cfr. Sess. VI, cap. 11 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 804).

  505 “Aliqua Dei praecepta hominibus iustis volentibus et conantibus
      secundum praesentes, quas habent vires, sunt impossibilia: deest
      quoque illis gratia, quâ possibilia fiant.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1092.)

  506 On the distinction between gratia proxime sufficiens and gratia
      remote sufficiens, cfr. supra, pp. 43 sq.

  507 1 John V, 3 sq.: “Haec est caritas Dei, ut mandata eius custodiamus
      et mandata eius gravia non sunt (αἱ ἐντολαὶ αὐτοῦ βαρεῖαι οὐκ
      εἰσίν): quoniam omne quod natum est ex Deo [= iustus] vincit
      mundum.”

  508 Matth. XI, 30.

  509 1 Cor. X, 13: “Fidelis autem Deus est, qui non patietur vos tentari
      supra id quod potestis (πειραςθῆναι ὑπέρ ἡ δύνασθε), sed faciet
      etiam cum tentatione proventum (ἔκβασιν), ut possitis sustinere.”

  510 V. supra, pp. 65 sq.

  511 1 Cor. X, 12: “Itaque qui se existimat stare, videat ne cadat.”

  512 V. infra, Thesis II. Cfr. also Ecclus. II, 11 sqq.; John VI, 37; 2
      Pet I, 10 sq.

  513 “Gratiam non omnibus dari.”

  514 Migne, P. L., XVII, 1073 sqq. Cfr. Bardenhewer-Shahan,
      Patrology, p. 515.

  515 Benignitas Dei generalis—specialis Dei misericordia.

  517 Chrysostom, Hom. in Matth., 82, n. 3.

  518 Augustine, Serm., 296: “Plus ausus erat, quam eius capacitas
      sustinebat.”

  519 Matth. XXVI, 41: “Watch ye and pray that ye enter not into
      temptation.”

  520 Lib. de Unitate Ecclesiae, 9: “Quis dubitaverit quod Iudas
      Christum, si voluisset, non utique tradidisset, et Petrus, si
      voluisset, ter Dominum non negasset?”

  521 John VI, 40.

  522 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, can. 19-21.

  523 Cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 573 sqq.

  524 Cfr. 1 Cor. X, 13.

  525 1 John V, 3 sq.

  526 Cfr. 1 John II, 16.

  527 De Natura et Gratia, c. 43, n. 50: “Deus impossibilia non iubet,
      sed iubendo admonet, et facere quod possis et petere quod non
      possis.”

  528 For an explanation of certain difficult passages bearing on this
      point in the writings of St. Augustine, see Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 531 sqq.

  529 V. supra, pp. 104 sq.

  530 Ez. XXXIII, 11: “Vivo ego, dicit Dominus Deus, nolo mortem impii,
      sed ut convertatur impius a via sua et vivat. Convertimini,
      convertimini a viis vestris pessimis.”

  531 2 Pet. III, 9: “Non tardat Dominus promissionem suam, sicut quidam
      existimant, sed patienter agit (μακροθυμεῖ) propter vos, nolens
      aliquos perire, sed omnes ad poenitentiam reverti (μὴ βουλόμενός
      τινας ἀπολέσθαι, ἀλλὰ πάντας εἰς μετάνοιαν χωρῆσαι).”

  532 Cfr. Is. V, 20.

  533 According to Ruiz (De Praedest., disp. 39, sect. 1), there are but
      very few divines (valde pauci) who hold this view.

  534 Wisd. XII, 10.

  535 Rom. II, 4 sq.: “An divitias bonitatis eius et patientiae et
      longanimitatis contemnis? Ignoras quoniam benignitas Dei ad
      poenitentiam (εἰς μετάνοιαν) te adducit? Secundum autem duritiem
      (σκληρότητα) tuam et impoenitens cor (ἀμετανόητον καρδίαν)
      thesaurizas tibi iram in die irae et revelationis iusti iudicii
      Dei, qui reddet unicuique secundum opera eius.” Cfr. Prov. I, 20
      sqq.

  536 Ex. VII, 3: “Ego indurabo cor eius.”

  537 Ex. IX, 12: “Induravitque Dominus cor Pharaonis, etc.”

  538 Ex. VIII, 15.

  539 For the solution of other difficulties see Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 529 sq.

  540 St. Augustine, Enarr. in Ps., VI, n. 8: “Dedit illos in reprobum
      sensum (Rom. I, 28); nam ea est caecitas mentis. In eam quisquis
      datus fuerit, ab interiore Dei luce secluditur, sed nondum penitus,
      quum in hac vita est. Sunt enim tenebrae exteriores, quae magis ad
      diem iudicii pertinere intelliguntur, ut penitus extra Deum sit,
      quisquis, dum tempus est, corrigi noluerit.”

  541 St. Augustine, Retractationes, 419: “De quocunque quamvis pessimo
      homine hac in vita constituto non est desperandum.”

  542 Tract. in Ioa., XII, 39. Similarly ibid., LIII, n. 6. For a
      complete exposition of St. Augustine’s teaching on this point
      consult Dechamps, De Haeresi Ianseniana, III, 6 sqq., and
      Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 40.

  543 Cfr. St. Thomas, De Veritate, qu. 24, art. 11: “Haec est
      obstinatio imperfecta, quâ aliquis potest esse obstinatus in statu
      viae, dum scilicet habet aliquis ita firmatam voluntatem in peccato,
      quod non surgunt motus ad bonum nisi debiles. Quia tamen aliqui
      surgunt, ex iis datur via, ut praeparentur ad gratiam.”

  544 Conc. Lateran. IV (1215), cap. “Firmiter”: “Et si post
      susceptionem baptismi quisquam prolapsus fuerit in peccatum, per
      veram potest semper poenitentiam reparari.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      430.)

  545 Cfr. Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 14; Sess. XIV, cap. 1.

  546 “Pagani, Iudaei, haeretici aliique huius generis nullum omnino
      accipiunt a Iesu Christo influxum, adeoque hinc recte inferes, in
      illis esse voluntatem nudam et inermem sine omni gratia
      sufficienti.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1295.)

  547 “Extra ecclesiam nulla conceditur gratia.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1379.)

  548 Rom. II, 6 sqq.

  549 Rom. II, 10 sq.: “Gloria autem et honor et pax omni operanti bonum,
      Iudaeo primum et Graeco (Ἔλληνι=pagano); non enim est acceptio
      personarum (προσωποληψία) apud Deum.”

  550 σωτὴρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων, μάλιστα πιστωῶν.

  551 Cfr. 1 Tim. II, 1 sqq.; John I, 9.

  552 Ep. ad Corinth., 1, 7.

  553 ἐν γενεᾷ καὶ γενεᾷ.

  554 ἀλλότριοι τοῦ Θεοῦ.

  555 Hom. in Ioa., VIII, 1.

  556 II, c. 31.

  557 De Arbitrii Libertate, n. 19: “... quotidie per tempora, per
      dies, per momenta, per ἄτομα et cunctis et singulis.”

  558 Heb. XI, 6.

  559 “Initium, fundamentum et radix omnis iustificationis.” Sess. VI,
      cap. 8, apud Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 801. III, cap. 3;
      Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1789.)

  562 “Quoniam vero sine fide impossible est placere Deo, ... ideo nemini
      unquam sine illa contigit iustificatio.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1793.)

  563 Rom. X, 17.

  564 Cfr. Acts X, 1 sqq.

  565 Card. Toletus, Comment. in S. Th., I, qu. 1, art. 1.

  566 Cfr. St. Thomas, De Verit., qu. 14, art. 11, ad 1: “Hoc ad
      divinam providentiam pertinet, ut cuilibet provideat de necessariis
      ad salutem, dummodo ex parte eius non impediatur. Si enim aliquis
      taliter (in silvis vel inter bruta animalia) nutritus ductum
      naturalis rationis sequeretur in appetitu boni et fuga mali,
      certissime est tenendum quod ei Deus vel per internam inspirationem
      revelaret ea, quae sunt ad credendum necessaria, vel aliquem fidei
      praedicatorem ad eum dirigeret, sicut misit Petrum ad Cornelium.”

  567 Gotti, De Fide, qu. 2, dub. 4, § 1: “Sententia negans fidem
      explicitam Christi et Trinitatis esse ita necessariam, ut sine ea
      nemo iustificari vel salvari queat, valde probabilis est. Eam enim
      videtur docere S. Thomas tum 2—2 p., qu. 10, art. 4, tum 3 p., qu.
      69, art. 4, ubi de Cornelio Centurione ait: Ante baptismum Cornelius
      et alii similes consequuntur gratiam et virtutes per fidem Christi
      et desiderium baptismi implicite vel explicite.”

  568 Cfr.

  569 A. Fischer, De Salute Infidelium, Essen 1886; Heinrich-Gutberlet,
      Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, pp. 491 sqq. On their teaching
      see P. Minges, O. F. M., Compendium Theologiae Dogmaticae
      Generalis, pp. 270 sqq., Munich 1902.

  570 With regard to certain other controversies on this subject consult
      Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 535 sqq., and Tepe, Instit.
      Theol., Vol. III, pp. 109 sqq., Paris 1896.

  571 See Articles 1 and 2, supra.

  572 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 12: “Arcanum divinae
      praedestinationis mysterium.”

  573 De Dono Perseverantiae, n. 21: “Ex duobus parvulis originali
      peccato pariter obstrictis cur iste assumatur, ille relinquatur et
      ex duobus aetate iam grandibus impiis, cur iste ita vocetur ut
      vocantem sequatur, ille autem aut non vocetur [praedicatione fidei]
      aut non ita vocetur, inscrutabilia sunt iudicia Dei.” On this
      mysterious dispensation see Scheeben, Die Mysterien des
      Christentums, § 99-103, 3rd ed., Freiburg 1912, and Palmieri, De
      Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 62.

  574 Eph. I, 3 sqq., and in other passages.

  575 De Dono Persev., c. 10, n. 19: “Praedestinatio est gratiae
      praeparatio, gratia vero iam ipsa donatio.”

  576 V. infra, pp. 199 sqq.

  577 De Dono Persev., c. 14, n. 35: “Praedestinatio nihil est aliud
      quam praescientia et praeparatio beneficiorum Dei, quibus certissime
      liberantur [scil. salvantur] quicunque liberantur.”

  578 S. Theol., 1a, qu. 23, art. 2: “Praedestinatio est praeparatio
      gratiae in praesenti et gloriae in futuro.” On the Biblical, the
      Patristic, and the theological use of the term, see Chr. Pesch,
      Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. II, 3rd ed., pp. 189 sqq., Freiburg 1906.

  579 The Tridentine Council presupposes it as an unquestioned dogma
      (Sess. VI, cap. 12).

  580 Rom. VIII, 28 sqq.; “Scimus autem quoniam diligentibus Deum omnia
      cooperantur in bonum, iis qui secundum propositum vocati sunt sancti
      (κατὰ πρόθεσιν κλητοῖς οὔσιν). Nam quos praescivit, et
      praedestinavit conformes fieri imaginis Filii sui, ut sit ipse
      primogenitus in multis fratribus; quos autem praedestinavit, hos et
      vocavit; et quos vocavit, hos et iustificavit: quos autem
      iustificavit, illos et glorificavit.”

  581 Cfr. Eph. I, 4-11.

  582 De Praedestinatione Sanctorum, c. 25: “Praedestinationis huius
      fidem, quae contra novos haereticos novâ nunc solicitudine
      defenditur, nunquam Ecclesia Christi non habuit.”

  583 Resp. ad Obiect. Gallor., 1: “Praedestinationem Dei nullus
      Catholicus negat.”

  584 Ep. ad Rufin.: “Praedestinationem tam impium est negare quam ipsi
      gratiae contraire.”

  585 De Correptione et Gratia, c. 7, n. 14: “Horum si quisquam perit,
      fallitur Deus; sed nemo eorum perit, quia non fallitur Deus.” On
      the question how this infallible foreknowledge is compatible with
      the dogma of free-will, see Pohle-Preuss, God, His Knowability,
      Essence, and Attributes, pp. 364 sqq.

  586 Cfr. Apoc. XVII, 8: “Liber vitae, τὸ βιβλίον τῆς ζωῆς.” Cfr. St.
      Augustine, De Civ. Dei, XX, 13: “Praescientia Dei, quae non
      potest falli, liber vitae est.”

  587 Luke X, 20: “Gaudete quod nomina vestra scripta sunt in coelis.”

  588 Cfr. 2 Pet. I, 10: “Satagite, ut per bona opera certam (βεβαίαν)
      vestram vocationem et electionem faciatis.”

  589 Apoc. III, 5: “Non delebo nomen eius de libro vitae.” Cfr. Ex.
      XXXII, 32; Ps. LXVIII, 29.

  590 On the liber vitae, cfr. St. Thomas, S. Theol., 1a, qu. 24, art.
      1-3; and Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, §
      435.

  591 De Corrept. et Grat., c. 13: “... quorum ita certus est numerus,
      ut nec addatur eis quisquam nec minuatur ex eis.”

  592 S. Theol., 1a, qu. 23, art. Sed melius dicitur quod soli Deo est cognitus
      numerus electorum in superna felicitate locandus, ut habet collecta
      pro vivis et defunctis.”

  593 De Bono Viduitatis, n. 28: “Quasi propter aliud retardetur hoc
      saeculum, nisi ut impleatur praedestinatus numerus ille sanctorum,
      quo citius impleto profecto nec terminus saeculi differetur.”

  594 Dieringer, Epistelbuch, “Fest Allerheiligen.”

  595 S. Theol., 1a, qu. 23, art. 7, ad 3: “Pauciores sunt qui
      salvantur.”

  596 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theol., Vol. VIII, pp. 363 sqq.,
      and W. Schneider, Das andere Leben, 9th ed., pp. 476 sqq.,
      Paderborn 1908.

  597 Le Rigorisme, le Nombre des Élus et la Doctrine du Salut, 2nd ed.,
      Bruxelles 1899.

  598 De Paucitate Salvandorum quid Docuerunt Sancti, 3d ed., Bruxelles
      1899.

  599 Cfr. 1 Tim. IV, 10: σωτὴρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων, μάλιστα πιστῶν. This
      opinion is convincingly defended by the Spanish theologian Genér
      (Theol. Dogmat. Scholast., II, 342 sqq., Rome 1767.) Timid souls
      may profitably ponder what Thomas à Kempis says in the Imitation,
      I, 25.

  600 Genér, Theol. Dogmat. Scholast., II, 342: “... ne dici possit cum
      dedecore et iniuria divinae maiestatis et clementiae, maius esse
      imperium daemonis quam Christi.”

  601 Lect. in Ep. ad Rom., VIII, 6: “Unde ponere quod aliquod meritum
      ex parte nostra praesupponatur, cuius praescientia sit ratio [scil.
      motivum] praedestinationis, nihil est aliud quam supponere gratiam
      dari ex meritis nostris [scil. naturalibus].” V. supra, Ch. II,
      Sect. 2.

  602 “Gratiam Dei secundum merita dari.”

  603 De Dono Perseverant., n. 53: “Quid autem coegit loca
      Scripturarum, quibus praedestinatio commendata est, copiosius et
      enucleatius isto nostro labore defendi, nisi quod Pelagiani dicunt,
      gratiam Dei secundum merita nostra [naturalia] dari?”

  604 Charles Du Plessis d’Argentré (d. 1740), after a careful study of
      all Scholastic works written between 1120 and 1708, concluded:
      “Veteres Scholastici de causa praedestinationis omnino considerate
      et ad gratiam et ad gloriam praecipue agebant. Idea nolebant eam
      esse ex praevisis meritis, quia gratia, quae in ea includitur, non
      datur nec proin praedestinatur ob praevisa merita.” (De
      Praedest., c. 10, § 1).

  605 V. infra, Part II, Ch. III, Sect. 3.

  606 E.g., Bañez, Alvarez, Lemos, Gonet, Contenson, Goudin.

  607 E.g., Berti and Norisius.

  608 E.g., Suarez, Ruiz, De Lugo, Bellarmine.

  609 “Nisi breviati fuissent dies illi, non fieret salva omnis caro, sed
      propter electos (διὰ τοὺς ἐκλεκτούς) breviabuntur dies illi....
      Surgent enim pseudochristi, ... ita ut in errorem inducantur, si
      fieri potest, etiam electi.”

  610 Cfr. Col. III, 12; 1 Pet. I, 1.

  611 “Non volentis neque currentis, sed miserentis est Dei ... Cuius
      vult miseretur, et quem vult indurat.” On the meaning of this text
      v. supra, pp. 137, 177.

  612 Cfr. Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 65; Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat.
      Theol., Vol. VIII, pp. 345 sqq.; Chr. Pesch, Prael. Dogmat., Vol.
      II, 3rd ed., pp. 212 sqq., Freiburg 1906; Val. Weber, Kritische
      Geschichte der Exegese des 9. Kapitels des Römerbriefes, Würzburg
      1889.

  613 Die Lehre von der Heiligung, p. 242, 3rd ed., Paderborn 1885.

  614 E.g., Petrus de Comitibus, O. S. A. (De Praedest. et Reprobat.,
      disp. 3, art. 4 sqq.), Tricassinus (De Praedest.), and the Jesuits
      Lessius, Gregory of Valentia, Franzelin, and Schrader.

  615 De Deo Uno, p. 677: “Si vero dissensus esset manifestus, ut
      prudenter [cum ceteris patribus] conciliari non posset, tum sane non
      dubitarem, cum Pighio, Catharino, Osorio, Camerario, Maldonato,
      Toleto, Petavio, reverenter ab Augustino discedere, quum haec non
      posset esse nisi privata eius sententia.”

  616 De Praedest., qu. 4.

  617 Comment. in S. Theol. S. Thomae Aqu., I, qu. 23, art. 5, conclus.
      2.

  618 De Deo, X, col. 9.

  619 A careful analysis of the Augustinian texts bearing on this question
      will be found in the Theol. Wirceburg., De Deo Uno, n. 231 sqq.,
      and Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 53.

  620 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theologie, Vol. VIII, pp. 351
      sqq.

  621 Clypeus Thomist., De Praedest., disp. 2, § 2, n. 26: “Qui
      ordinate vult, prius vult finem quam media ad finem. Sed Deus
      ordinate vult. Ergo prius vult finem quam media ad illum. Atqui
      gloria est finis et merita sunt media ad illum conducentia. Ergo
      prius vult gloriam quam merita, et consequenter electio ad gloriam
      non potest esse ex praevisione meritorum.”

  622 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theol., Vol. VIII, p. 330.

  623 V. Art. 4, No. 2, infra. The opposite opinion is defended by
      Billuart De Deo, diss. 9, art. 4, § 3 (ed. Lequette, p. 386).

  624 Orth. Praed., c. 1, n. 7: “Deus primo praeparavit dona gratiae ac
      deinde eos, quos praevidebat bene usuros eiusmodi donis, elegit ad
      vitam aeternam.”

  625 “... sententiam illam antiquitate, suavitate ac Scripturarum nativâ
      auctoritate nobilissimam de praedestinatione ad gloriam post
      praevisa merita semper ut Dei misericordiae ac gratiae magis
      consentaneam, veriorem ac amabiliorem existimavi.” (Cfr. Traité de
      l’Amour de Dieu, III, 5).

  626 V. supra, pp. 153 sqq.

  627 V. supra, No. 4.

  628 2 Tim. IV, 7 sq.: “Bonum certamen certavi, cursum consummavi, fidem
      servavi; in reliquo reposita est (ἀπόκειται=praeparata ab aeterno)
      mihi corona iustitiae, quam reddet (ἀποδώσει) mihi Dominus in illa
      die, iustus index.” Cfr. 1 Cor. IX, 24 sqq.; Apoc. II, 7, 26.

  629 Matth. XXV, 34 sqq.: “Venite, benedicti Patris mei, possidete
      paratum vobis regnum a constitutione mundi.”

  630 De Deo, ed. Lequette, p. 391.

  631 For instance, John VIII, 44; 1 John III, 8; Acts XIII, 10.

  632 Cfr. Tepe, Inst. Theol., Vol. III, pp. 289 sqq., Paris 1896;
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theol., Vol. VIII, § 430.

  633 Lessius, Antapol., prop. 8: “Tenent hanc sententiam omnes Patres
      Graeci, adeo ut communiter dicatur esse sententia Graecorum.”

  634 Hom. in Matth., 80, n. 2: “Haereditate possidete regnum quasi
      proprium, quasi paternum et vestrum, iam olim vobis debitum;
      priusquam enim existeretis, haec vobis parata erant et disposita,
      quia ego vos tales futuros esse praescivi.”

  635 In Rom., VIII, 29 (Migne, P. G., LXXXII, 142): “Non simpliciter
      praedestinavit, sed quum praescivisset, praedestinavit.”

  636 In Ps., 64, n. 5: “Multi vocati sunt, sed pauci electi.... Itaque
      non res indiscreti iudicii est electio, sed ex meriti delectu facta
      discretio est.”

  637 De Fide, V, 6, 83: “Unde et Apostolus ait: quos praescivit, et
      praedestinavit (Rom. VIII, 29); non enim ante praedestinavit quam
      praescivit, sed quorum merita praescivit, eorum praemia
      praedestinavit.” Cfr. Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 59; Lessius,
      De Praedest. et Reprob., sect. 2, n. 7 sqq.

  638 De Gratia, II, 11.

  639 Cfr.

  640 V. supra, pp. 200 sqq., 216 sqq.

  641 Cfr. Franzelin, De Deo Uno, thes. 64.

  642 Comment. in IV Libros Sent., 1, dist. 41: “Eligatur [ea
      sententia] quae magis placet, dum tamen salvetur libertas divina
      sine aliqua iniustitia et alia quae salvanda sunt circa Deum.”

  643 Many Scholastic utterances bearing on this subject have been
      collected by Lessius, De Praedest. et Reprob., sect. 2, n. 7
      (Opusc. II, pp. 208 sqq., Paris 1878).

  644 Comment. in Quatuor Libros Sent., 1, dist. 41, qu. 1.

  645 Comment. in Quatuor Libros Sent., 1, dist. 41, art. 2.

  646 S. Theol., 1a, qu. 23, disp. 3, art. 4.

  647 In his treatise De Praedestinatione, dedicated to the Council of
      Trent.

  648 De Deo, disp. 9, art. 3.

  649 De Praedest. et Reprob., Paris edition of the Opuscula, 1878, p.
      412: “... privilegia eius omnem modum superant et ad nullum alium
      sunt extendenda.”

  650 Sent., 1, dist. 40: “... est praescientia iniquitatis quorundam
      et praeparatio damnationis eorumdem.”

  651 Supra, Art. 3, No. 4.

  652 Calvin’s teaching in his Inst., l. III, c. 21, 24. On Arminianism
      see J. F. Loughlin in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. I, pp. 740
      sqq. 1.

  656 V. supra, Art. 2, Thesis II.

  657 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability, Essence, and Attributes,
      pp. 251 sqq.

  658 V. supra, pp. 201 sqq.

  659 1 Pet. II, 7 sq.: “Non credentibus autem [Christus] ... lapis
      offensionis ... qui offendunt verbo nec credunt, in quo (εἰς δ) et
      positi sunt.”

  660 “In hoc positi, i.e. praedestinati sunt, ut non credant.”

  661 “And he shall be a sanctification to you. Oecumen., in h. l.: “Ad quod positi sunt, non dicitur, quasi
      a Deo ad hoc essent destinati; nulla enim causa perditionis
      ministratur ab eo, qui omnes homines vult salvos fieri.”

  664 Contr. Iulian., III, 18, 35: “Bonus est Deus, iustus est Deus:
      potest aliquos sine bonis meritis liberare, quia bonus est; non
      potest quemquam sine malis meritis damnare, quia iustus est.”

  665 Resp. ad XII Object. Vincent.: “Voluntate exierunt, voluntate
      ceciderunt, et quia praesciti sunt casuri, non sunt praedestinati;
      essent autem praedestinati, si essent reversuri et in sanctitate
      remansuri, ac per hoc praedestinatio Dei multis est causa standi,
      nemini est causa labendi.”

  666 Ad Monim., l. I. Cfr. Petavius, De Deo, X, 7 sqq.

  667 Clypeus Thomist., Vol. II, tr. 5, disp. 5, art. 2, n. 23.

  668 Cfr. Limbourg, S. J., in the Innsbruck Zeitschrift für kath.
      Theologie, 1879, pp. 203 sqq.

  669 Cfr. Suarez, De Praedest., V, 4 sqq.

  670 Conc. Trident., Sess. V, can. 5.

  671 Which explains why both theories have the same defenders. V.
      supra, Art. 3, No. 4.

  672 Bañez, Alvarez, Gonet.

  673 “Deus non serio vult, sed vellet salvare etiam reprobos, nisi per
      hoc impediretur pulchritudo universi.”

  674 V. supra, Art. 1 and 2.

  675 De Praedest., V, 8, 8: “Non est in potestate hominis, cum
      non-electione seu cum non-praedestinatione aut, quod idem est, cum
      reprobatione negativa actu ponere seu componere suam aeternam
      salutem.” Cfr. Franzelin, De Deo Uno, p. 583, 3rd ed., Rome 1888.

  676 “Deus ex omnibus hominibus, quos infectos originali peccato
      praevidit, efficaciter ex meritis Christi venturi quosdam elegit ad
      gloriam, et alios in poenam eiusdem originalis peccati et ad
      ostensionem suae iustitiae erga illos et maioris misericordiae erga
      electos voluit permittere, ut deficerent a consecutione gloriae seu
      positive eis non voluit gloriam.... Ex vi huius intentionis
      efficacis excogitavit media apta ad consecutionem talis finis, et
      videns in aliquibus hominibus esse aptum medium in solo originali
      peccato eos relinquere, in aliis vero permittere, ut cadant in haec
      vel illa peccata actualia ac in illis perseverent, has permissiones
      per subsequentem electionem approbavit. Et tandem ... per actum
      imperii sui intellectus haec media ad praedictum finem ordinavit.”
      Clyp. Thomist., Vol. II, disp. 5, art. 4, n. 155.

  677 De Reprob., c. 3, n. 6.

  678 De Praedest., V, 7, 14: “Electio ad finem est ratio dandi media
      efficacia seu infallibilia ad illum; ergo negatio illius electionis
      erit suo modo ratio non dandi media, quae cognoscuntur congrua et
      infallibilia ad illum finem consequendum.”

  679 2 Pet. 2, n. 13: “Secundum communem aestimationem
      hominum paria videntur, Deum velle ut pereas et nolle te ponere in
      electorum suorum numero neque gratiam congruam et perseverantiam
      dare; aeque enim infallibiliter ex huiusmodi decretis sequeretur
      damnatio. Et si alterutrum horum decretorum esset subeundum, quivis
      censeret sibi esse indifferens, utrum eligatur, quum utrumque ante
      praevisionem operum sit conceptum.” The teaching of St. Augustine
      and that of St. Thomas on this point is in dispute. VIII, § 433.

  681 In his treatise De Servo Arbitrio.

  682 Cfr. Denifle, Luther und Luthertum in der ersten Entwicklung, Vol.
      I, Mainz 1904.

  683 Instit. Christ. Religionis, l. II.

  684 Cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 378 sqq. Pohle-Preuss, op. cit. (note 5), pp. 295 sq.

  688 In support of this contention Jansenius quoted St. Augustine, In
      Gal., n. 49: “Quod amplius nos delectat, secundum id operemur
      necesse est.”

  689 J. Forget in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. VIII, pp. 288 sqq. On
      Jansenism see Hergenröther, Kirchengeschichte, 4th ed., ed. by J.
      P. Kirsch, Vol. III, pp. 386 sqq., 466 sqq., Freiburg 1909.

  690 Sess. VI, cap. 5: “Unde in sacris literis quum dicitur:
      Convertimini ad me et ego convertar ad vos, libertatis
      nostrae admonemur; quum respondemus: Converte nos, Domine, ad te
      et convertemur, Dei nos gratiâ praeveniri confitemur.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 797.) Cfr. I, 3.

  692 Jer. XXXI, 21.

  693 Rom. IX, 19: “Voluntati enim eius quis resistit?”

  694 1 Tim. IV, 7: “Exerce autem teipsum (γύμναζε δέ σεαυτόν) ad
      pietatem.”

  695 Acts VII, 51: “Vos semper Spiritui Sancto resistitis (ἀντιπίπτετε),
      sicut patres vestri, ita et vos.”

  696 Matth. XIX, 17: “Si autem vis ad vitam ingredi, serva mandata.”
      Cfr. Apoc. 10: “Voluntatem movet [gratia
      Christi], non qualiter multis saeculis traditum est et creditum, ut
      nostrae postea sit electionis, motioni aut obtemperare aut
      refragari, sed illam efficaciter afficiendo. Illud ergo toties a
      Chrysostomo repetitum repudiari necesse est: Quem trahit,
      volentem trahit.” Many Patristic texts of similar tenor have been
      gathered and explained by Cardinal Bellarmine in his treatise De
      Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, VI, 11.

  700 Cfr. De Gratia Christi, c. 47: “Ista quaestio, ubi de arbitrio
      voluntatis et Dei gratia disputatur, ita est ad discernendum
      difficilis, ut quando defenditur liberum arbitrium, negari Dei
      gratia videatur; quando autem asseritur Dei gratia, liberum
      arbitrium putetur auferri.”

  701 De Corrept. et Gratia, XII, 38: “Subventum est infirmitati
      voluntatis humanae, ut divinâ gratiâ indeclinabiliter et
      insuperabiliter ageretur.”

  702 Cfr. his Sermones, 163, c. 11, n. 13: “Totum ex Deo, non tamen
      quasi dormientes, non quasi ut non conemur, non quasi ut non
      velimus. Sine voluntate tua non erit in te iustitia Dei. Voluntas
      quidem non est nisi tua, iustitia non est nisi Dei.... Sine te fecit
      te Deus. Non enim adhibuisti aliquem consensum, ut te faceret Deus.
      Quomodo consentiebas, qui non eras? Qui ergo fecit te sine te, non
      te iustificat sine te. Ergo fecit nescientem, iustificat volentem.
      Tamen ipse iustificat, ne sit iustitia tua.”

  703 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 34: “Consentire vocationi Dei vel ab
      ipsa dissentire propriae voluntatis est.”

  704 Ep., 157, 2, 10: “Neque enim voluntatis arbitrium ideo tollitur,
      quia iuvatur; sed ideo iuvatur, quia non tollitur.” (Migne, P.
      L., XXXIII, 677).

  705 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, I, 2: “Tolle liberum arbitrium et
      non erit, quod salvetur; tolle gratiam et non erit, unde salvetur.”
      On other difficult passages in the writings of St. Augustine cfr.

  706 Cfr. Bañez, Comment. in S. Theol., 1 p., qu. 14, art. Billuart, De Deo, diss. 8, art. 4: “Movet nempe Deus non
      solum ad substantiam actus, sed etiam ad modum eius, qui est
      libertas.”

  708 Cfr. Alvarez, De Auxiliis, disp. 83, n. 9: “Quando agens
      infinitae virtutis movet aliquod subiectum, tale subiectum
      infallibiliter movetur, quid tunc resistentia passi non superat nec
      adaequat virtutem agentis. Sed Deus est agens infinitae virtutis.
      Ergo motio Dei efficax respectu cuiuscumque hominis in quibuslibet
      circumstantiis positi erit medium congruum et aptum, ut
      infallibiliter inducat effectum, ad quem ex Dei intentione datur.”

  709 Cfr. Billuart, De Deo, diss. 8, art.

  711 Cfr. De Lemos, Acta Congr. de Aux., p. 1065: “Illa praepositio
      ’prae’ nihil aliud denotat aut denotare potest quam Deum esse
      priorem et primam causam, prius naturâ et causalitate moventem,
      applicantem, inclinantem et determinantem voluntatem, quam ipsa
      voluntas se determinet.”

  712 Cfr. Gonet, Clypeus Theol. Thomist., disp. 11, art. 5: “Haec
      divina motio in creatura recepta a Thomistis physica
      appellatur, ... quia ex propria essentia et ab intrinseco est
      efficax, independenter a quocumque creato consensu.”

  713 Cfr. Graveson, Epist. Theol. Polem., t. I, ep. 11: “Voluntas
      creata priusquam se determinet, a Deo debet determinari, quia scil.
      indifferens sit eaque indifferentia non solvatur quam per praeviam
      Dei motionem.” Cfr. Alvarez, De Auxiliis, disp. 28: “Liberum
      arbitrium, quia creatum est, licet determinet sibi actum, illum
      tamen determinat praedeterminatum a Deo.”

  714 Cfr. Reginald., De Novit. Antiquit. Nominis Praedeterm. Phys., l.
      II, c. 36: “Quum Deus hanc motionem det causis sciens et volens
      atque adeo cum [aeterna] cognitione et intentione certa cuiusdam
      determinati effectus, alias haec essent a casu respectu Dei:
      consequitur illam praemotionem physicam esse praedeterminationem.”

  715 Cfr. Nazarius, Comment. in S. Theol. S. Thom., 1 p., qu. 22, art.
      4: “Sublatâ a Deo physicae praemotionis efficacitate nulla
      relinquitur alia in Deo sufficiens causalitas respectu
      determinationis liberorum actuum et consequenter neque in Deo esse
      poterit talium praescientia futurorum.” See also Pohle-Preuss,
      God: His Knowability, Essence, and Attributes, pp. 383 sqq., 400
      sqq.

  716 Cfr. Contenson, Theol. Mentis et Cordis, l. VIII, diss. 2, specul.
      3: “Generalem praemotionem ideo solum adstruimus, ut per eam ad
      gratiam per se efficacem uberius fortiusque stabiliendam viam
      muniamus ad eamque propugnandam serviat etiam philosophia.”

  717 Cfr. Alvarez, De Auxiliis, disp. 92, n. 6: “Repugnant ad invicem
      auxilium efficax ad consentiendum et actualis dissensus.”

  718 Cfr. Alvarez, op. cit., disp. 122, n. 16: “Efficacia auxilii
      praevenientis gratiae et connexio eius infallibilis cum libera
      cooperatione arbitrii tota fundatur et desumitur, tamquam ex prima
      radice, ex omnipotentia Dei atque ex absoluto et efficaci decreto
      voluntatis eius volentis, ut homo quem movet convertatur et pie
      operetur, nec huiusmodi efficacia ullo modo dependet etiam, tamquam
      a conditione sine qua non, ex futura cooperatione arbitrii creati.”

  719 Cfr. Alvarez, op. cit., disp. 19, n. 7: “Praedictum auxilium
      actuale determinat liberum arbitrium ad unam numero actionem, non
      subditur libero arbitrio quantum ad usum.”

  720 Cfr. Graveson, Epist. Theol. Polem., t. I, ep. 1: “Gratia
      thomistice sufficiens ita ex naturâ sua essentialiter distinguitur a
      gratia thomistice efficaci, ut numquam et in nullo casu gratia
      thomistice sufficiens evadere possit gratia efficax thomistice nec
      umquam ponatur actus secundus, nisi accesserit gratia efficax
      thomistice.”

  721 Prael. Theol., disp. 5, c. 6: “In gratia sufficiente totum id
      continetur quod ad potentiam bene operandi exigitur, non autem totum
      id quod ulterius requiritur ad actum; certum est enim in omni causa
      agente aliquid plus ad actum quam ad potentiam requiri.”

  722 Panoplia, t. IV, p. 2, tr. 3, c. 2: “Auxilium sufficiens ita
      sufficientiam tribuit ad operandum, si homo velit, quod defectus
      operationis nullo modo provenit ex insufficientia aliqua ipsius
      auxilii, sed tantum ex defectu arbitrii, quod ei resistit et
      impedimentum ponit.”

  723 Cfr.

  724 Billuart, De Deo, diss. 8, art. 4. § 3.

  725 Cfr. Bañez, Comment. in S. Theol. S. Thom., 1 p., qu. 14, art. 13,
      concl. 14: “Nam voluntas creata infallibiliter deficiet circa
      quamcumque materiam virtutis, nisi efficaciter determinetur a divina
      voluntate ad bene operandum.”

  726 Other evasions are treated by Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 400
      sqq. On the true notion of merely sufficient grace, v. Ch. I,
      Sect. 2, No. 6, supra.

  727 The Molinists also regard supernatural grace as a praemotio
      physica; cfr.

  728 Gonet, Clypeus Theol. Thomist., disp. 9, art 5, § 3.

  729 Cfr. Alvarez, De Auxiliis, disp.

  731 Alvarez, De Auxiliis, disp. 22, n. 19: “Nam tamdiu manet libertas
      in voluntate, quamdiu intellectus illi repraesentat obiectum cum
      indifferentia.”

  732 De Deo, diss. 8, art. 4, § 2.

  733 De Auxiliis, disp. 92, n. 11: “Etiam posito auxilio efficaci in
      voluntate componitur cum illo potentia ad dissentiendum, quamvis
      nulla sit potentia ad coniungendum actualem dissensum cum auxilio
      efficaci [not: cum actuali consensu].”]

  734 Sess. VI, cap. 5: “Homo ... inspirationem illam [gratiam efficacem]
      recipiens ... illam et abiicere potest.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      797). 93, art. 1: “Nunc autem dicimus
      Concilium Tridentinum ... numquam usum fuisse verbo illo
      resistere, sed verbo dissentire et
      [abiicere], ut insinuaret non esse idem formaliter resistere
      seu posse resistere auxilio efficaci et posse dissentire seu
      abiicere gratiam vocationis.... Unde licet arbitrium motum auxilio
      efficaci ad consentiendum possit dissentire, si velit, non tamen
      potest Deo resistere vel auxilio eius efficaci, secundum quod est
      instrumentum voluntatis divinae.”

  736 Sess. III, cap. 3: “Quare fides ipsa in se, etiamsi per caritatem
      non operetur, donum Dei est et actus eius est opus ad salutem
      pertinens, quo homo liberam praestet ipsi Deo obedientiam, gratiae
      eius cui resistere possit consentiendo et cooperando.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1791.)

  737 Cfr. Tepe, Instit. Theol., Vol. On
      the teaching of St. Augustine see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, thes. 50; on that of St. Thomas, L. de San, S. J., De Deo
      Uno, t. I: De Mente S. Thomae circa Praedeterminationes Physicas,
      Louvain 1894.

  739 “Quidquid entitatis reperitur in quocumque actu peccati, etiamsi
      alias sit intrinsece malus, debet reduci in Deum tamquam in primam
      causam praemoventem et praedeterminantem actuali motione voluntatem
      creatam ad talem actum, inquantum actus est, secundum quod est
      ens.” Alvarez, De Auxil., disp. 24, n. 15.

  740 Cfr. Bañez, Comment. in S. Theol. S. Thom., 1 p., qu. 23, art. 3,
      dub. 2, conclus. 2: “Deus cognoscit cognitione intuitivâ peccatum
      quatenus Dei voluntas est causa entitatis actus peccati et simul
      permittens, quod ad eundem actum concurrat liberum arbitrium
      deficiendo a regula.”

  741 Sess. VI, can. 6.

  742 “Voluntas Adami ante peccatum non erat tibia curva, sed omnino
      recta, facta autem est curva ex promotione physica.” Praelect.
      Dogmat., Vol. II, 3rd ed., p. 137.

  744 Cfr. on this subject Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 41;
      T. Papagni, O. P., La Mente di S. Tommaso intorno alla Mozione
      Divina nelle Creature, p. 44, Benevento 1901.

  745 The principal representatives of Augustinianism are Berti, Bellelli,
      and Bertieri.

  746 Published at Rome in 1739 sqq.

  747 Cfr. his work Le Bajanisme et le Jansénisme Resuscités dans les
      Livres de Bellelli et Berti, s. l., 1745.

  748 Cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 419 sqq.

  749 Cfr. Berti, De Theol. Disciplinis, XIV, 9, n. 6: “Sententia est
      Thomistarum et Augustinensium omnium affirmantium, gratiam efficacem
      esse se ipsâ, non talem reddi aut cooperatione liberi arbitrii aut
      ex circumstantiis congruis, utque certissime et infallibiliter cum
      effectu coniunctam esse.”

  750 Cfr. Berti, op. cit., XIV, 11: “In aequali gradu concupiscentiae
      et gratiae gratia concupiscentiae, non concupiscentia gratiae
      succumbet, quia homo etiam cum aequali virtute maiorem habet ad
      malum quam ad bonum inclinationem.... Agere et non agere in
      aequilibrio virium et determinare seipsum absque efficaci Dei
      praemotione est liberi arbitrii sani et robusti, non autem
      infirmi.”

  751 Cfr. Berti, De Theol. Disciplinis, XIV, 8, n. 18: “Quamvis sit
      haec efficax gratia antecedens et Deus sine nobis faciat ut velimus,
      nihilo tamen minus per illam non proponitur nobis bonum sub ratione
      omnis boni, quemadmodum proponitur beatis per lumen gloriae, ideoque
      remanet indifferentia iudicii et vera libertas.”

  752 Calvinism, Bajanism, Jansenism—Thomism, Augustinianism, Molinism,
      and Congruism.

  753 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, c. 17.

  754 Cfr. Palmieri, De Gratia Divina Actuali, pp. 433 sqq.

  755 On the insufficiency of the indifferentia iudicii to preserve
      free-will, v. supra, p. 242.

  756 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 6.

  757 “Proponitur praemium ut pecces, i.e. quod te delectat,” he says;
      “... Terreris minis, facis propter quod times.... Si cupiditas non
      valuit, forte timor valebit ut pecces.... Itaque ad omne recte
      factum amor et timor ducit. Ut facias bene, amas Deum et times Deum;
      ut autem facias male, amas mundum et times mundum.” In Ps., 79,
      c. 13.

  758 Cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 422 sqq.; Palmieri, De
      Gratia Divina Actuali, thes. 54.

  759 On the Congregatio de Auxiliis, so called because the principal
      question under discussion was the help (auxilia) afforded by
      grace, see Astrain, S. J., in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. IV,
      pp. 238 sq., and Schneemann, S. J., Die Entstehung und weitere
      Entwicklung der thomistisch-molinistischen Controverse, Freiburg
      1879; also in a Latin translation, Freiburg 1881.

  760 Cfr. Molina, Concordia Liberi Arbitrii cum Gratiae Donis, qu. 14,
      art. 13, dip. 38: “Asserimus auxilia praevenientis atque adiuvantis
      gratiae ... pendere a libero consensu et cooperatione liberi
      arbitrii nostri cum illis atque adeo in libera potestate nostra
      esse, vel illa efficacia reddere consentiendo et cooperando cum
      illis ad actus, quibus ad iustificationem disponimur, vel
      inefficacia illa reddere continendo consensum et cooperationem
      nostram aut ettam eliciendo contrarium consensum.” Ibid., disp.
      12: “Quare fieri potest, ut duorum qui aequali auxilio interius a
      Deo vocantur, unus pro libertate sui arbitrii convertatur et alter
      infidelitate permaneat.”

  761 “Auxilium gratiae praevenientis,” says Molina, “est influxus Dei
      in liberum arbitrium, quo illud movet et excitat potensque reddit,
      ut eo pacto motum tamquam habens iam in se ipso principium efficiens
      actuum supernaturalium simul influendo ulterius eos producat.”
      Molina, op. cit., qu. 14, art. 13, disp. 41.

  762 Cfr. Molina, op. cit., qu. 23, art. 4, disp. 1: “Quando audis
      consensum nostrum efficacia reddere auxilia gratiae, non ita id
      intelligas, quasi arbitrium nostrum vim aliquam seu efficacitatem
      tribuat auxiliis ipsis; arbitrium enim et influxus noster nullam vim
      conferunt gratiae auxiliis, sed potius auxilia vim et propensionem
      arbitrio tribuunt ad consensum eliciendum.” Ibid., Appendix ad
      obi. 3 (ed.

  764 Cfr. Molina, op. cit., qu. 19, art. 6, disp. 2: “Hac ratione Deus
      O. M. vult omnia bona, quae per arbitrium nostrum sunt futura, non
      solum voluntate conditionali, si nos quoque ea velimus, sed etiam
      voluntate absoluta, quatenus ipsi praevidenti ea futura placent
      eademque divina eius ac singularis bonitas per arbitrium nostrum
      intendit ac vult. Quod autem haec etiam absoluta voluntas semper
      impleatur, ex eo est manifestum, quia nititur certitudine
      praescientiae divinae, quod ita res futura sit per nostrum
      arbitrium.”—Ibid., qu. 23, art. 4, disp. 3: “Quoniam quod Deus
      elegerit eum rerum ordinem, circumstantiarum et auxiliorum, sive
      maiorum sive minorum, in quo praevidebat eos pro sua libertate
      salvandos, qui electione eius ordinis eo ipso praedestinati sunt
      vitamque aeternam pro sua libertate consequuntur, potius quam alium
      ex infinitis, in quo res aliter pro eadem ipsorum libertate
      habuisset, non fuit ex nobis aut pro meritorum et cooperationis
      nostrae qualitate, sed ex sola misericordia Dei.” Cfr.

  765 Cfr. his treatise De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, I, 12 (ed. Fèvre,
      tom. V, p. 527, Paris 1873): “Prima opinio eorum est, qui gratiam
      efficacem constituunt in assensu et cooperatione humana, ita ut ab
      eventu dicatur gratia efficax, quia videlicet sortitur effectum et
      ideo sortitur effectum, quia voluntas humana cooperatur. Itaque
      existimant hi autores, in potestate hominis esse ut gratiam faciat
      esse efficacem, quae alioquin ex se non esset nisi sufficiens.”
      Bellarmine treats this opinion as the extreme counterpart of Thomism
      (which he also combats) and disposes of it thus: “Haec opinio
      aliena est omnino a sententia b. Augustini et, quantum ego existimo,
      a sententia etiam Scripturarum divinarum.” (l.c.) Among the
      Scriptural texts which he quotes in support of this view are John
      VI, 45, 1 Cor. IV, 7, Rom. IX, 11.

  766 The learned Cardinal describes the difference between Congruism and
      extreme Molinism (which latter, it may be remarked, was not defended
      by Molina himself) as follows: “Neque enim intelligi potest, quo
      pacto gratia efficax consistat in illa interna suasione, quae per
      liberum arbitrium respui potest, et tamen infallibilem effectum
      habeat, nisi addamus, Deum iis quos efficaciter et infallibiliter
      trahere decrevit, eam suasionem adhibere quam videt congruere
      ingenio eorum et quam certo novit ab eis non contemnendam.” (Op.
      cit., p. 531.) The objection that this explanation eventually
      resolves itself into the Molinistic theory which he had censured,
      Bellarmine meets as follows: “Respondeo sententiam nostram, quam S.
      Augustini esse demonstravimus, aliqua in re cum prima illa opinione
      convenire, sed in multis ab illa discrepare. Convenit enim in eo
      quod utraque sententia gratiam sufficentem et efficacem ponit in
      auxilio excitante potissimum, non in adiuvante. Sed discrepant inter
      se, quod prima opinio vult efficaciam gratiae pendere a voluntate
      humana, nostra vero pendere vult a voluntate Dei.” (l.c., cap.
      13.)

  767 Further details in Schneemann, Hist. Controv., pp. 302 sqq.

  768 Cfr. Ad Simplician., I, qu. 2, n. 13: “Si vellet [Deus] etiam
      ipsorum misereri, posset ita vocare, quomodo illis aptum esset, ut
      et moverentur et intelligerent et sequerentur. Verum est ergo: Multi
      vocati, pauci electi. Illi enim electi, qui congruenter vocati; illi
      autem qui non congruebant neque contemperabantur vocationi, non
      electi, quia non secuti, quamvis vocati. Item verum est: Neque
      volentis neque currentis, sed miserentis est Dei, quia etiamsi
      multos vocet, eorum tamen miseretur, quos ita vocat, quomodo iis
      vocari aptum est ut sequantur. Falsum est autem, si quis dicit:
      Igitur non miserentis Dei, sed volentis atque currentis est hominis,
      quia nullius Deus frustra miseretur. Cuius autem miseretur, sic eum
      vocat quomodo scit ei congruere, ut vocantem non respuat.”

  769 Cfr. Suarez, De Aux., V, 25: “Vocatio efficax illa est, quae ...
      includit congruitatem quandam respectu personae, cui datur, ut sit
      illi proportionata et accommodata, sicut oportet, ut in tali
      persona, in tali tempore et occasione infallibiliter effectum
      habeat, et per hoc habet illa vocatio quod congrua et efficax sit.”

  770 1 Kings XVII, 38 sqq.—Cfr. Lessius, De Praedest. et Reprob., sect.
      5, n. 106: “Ex quibus patet, gratiam efficacem, si physice
      spectetur, non semper esse maius beneficium, quum saepenumero ea,
      quae effectu caret, secundum suam entitatem longe sit praestantior.
      Si tamen spectetur moraliter, nimirum ut subest praescientiae
      infallibili effectus, sic semper maius est beneficium, etiam ut
      praecisa ab actuali effectu et gratia cooperante seu ut prior
      actuali suo influxu in opus, quum Deus, qui non caeco modo operatur,
      ex mero suo beneplacito et inscrutabili iudicio seligat pro
      quibusdam gratias illas quas effectum habituras videt, non solum ut
      gratiae quaedam sunt, sed etiam formaliter, ut effectum habiturae
      sunt.... Ex quibus constat, quo sensu distinctio gratiae congruae et
      non congruae admittenda sit, quam numquam reieci, sed totis animis
      et sensu et praxi semper sum amplexus.”

  771 De Grat. et Lib. Arbitr., ed. Fèvre, t. V, p. 533.

  772 V. supra, p. 16.

  773 For the proofs of this assertion see Palmieri, De Gratia Divina
      Actuali, thes. 50.

  774 Cfr. St. Augustine, De Civitate Dei, V, 9, 4: “Quod [voluntates]
      facturae sunt, ipsae omnino facturae, quia facturas ille praescivit,
      cuius praescientia falli non potest.”

  775 On Congruism cfr. Chr. Pesch, Prael. Dogmat., Vol. V, 3rd ed., pp.
      167 sqq.; Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 447.
      On the various interpretations of the praedefinitio actuum
      salutarium, within as well as without the Jesuit Order, see Tepe,
      Instit. Theol., Vol. III, pp. 93 sqq., Paris 1896, and especially
      Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 458 sqq.

  776 Chief among them Ysambert, Tournely, St. Alphonsus de’ Liguori,
      Albert Knoll, and more recently Cardinal Katschthaler.

  777 For a more detailed account see Tournely, De Gratia Christi, qu.
      7, art. 4, concl. 5; Katschthaler, De Gratia, pp. 173 sqq.,
      Ratisbon 1880.

  778 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, V, 20, 2.

  779 Rom. XI, 33. On Syncretism cfr. Alb. a Bulsano, Inst. Theol.
      Dogmat. Specialis, ed. by Gottfried a Graun, O. M. Cap., tom. II,
      pp. 193 sqq., Innsbruck 1894.

  780 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 5: “De Necessitate Praeparationis,”
      and cap. 6: “De Modo Praeparationis.”

  781 Sess. VI, cap. 8: “Fides est humanae salutis initium, fundamentum
      et radix omnis iustificationis.”

  782 Sess. VI, cap. 6: “Disponuntur autem ad ipsam iustitiam, dum
      excitati divinâ gratiâ et adiuti fidem ex auditu concipientes libere
      moventur in Deum, credentes vera esse quae divinitus revelata et
      promissa sunt.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 798).

  783 Sess. VI, can. 12: “Si quis dixerit, fidem iustificantem nihil
      aliud esse quam fiduciam divinae misericordiae peccata remittentis
      propter Christum, vel eam fiduciam solam esse, quâ iustificamur,
      anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 822.) Cfr. Conc. Vatic.,
      Sess. III, cap. 3, “De Fide” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1789).

  784 κηρύξατε τὸ εὐαγγέλιον.

  785 ἵνα πιστεύσητε ὅτι.

  786 John XX, 31.

  787 Acts VIII, 37.

  788 Rom. X, 9 sq.: “Quia si confitearis in ore tuo Dominum Iesum et in
      corde tuo credideris quod Deus illum suscitaverit a mortuis, salvus
      eris. Corde enim creditur ad iustitiam, ore autem confessio fit ad
      salutem.”

  789 Heb. 10, n. 18. Cfr. Becanus, De Gratia
      Habituali, c. I, qu. 7, art. 6 sq.; Bellarmine, De
      Iustificatione, I, 5 sqq.

  792 Cfr. Bardenhewer-Shahan, Patrology, p. 616, Freiburg and St. Louis
      1908.

  793 Prologus: Gaudeo quod pro fide vera sine ullo perfidiae vitio
      custodienda sollicitudinem geris, sine qua nulla potest prodesse,
      imo nec esse conversio. Apostolica quippe dicit auctoritas, quia
      sine fide impossibile est placere Deo. Fides namque est bonorum
      omnium fundamentum. Fides est humanae salutis initium. Sine hac fide
      nemo ad filiorum Dei numerum potest pervenire, quia sine ipsa nec in
      hoc saeculo quisquam iustificationis gratiam consequitur nec in
      futuro possidebit vitam aeternam.

  794 On the traditional concepts of “faith” and “justification” as held
      in the Church before Luther’s time, see Denifle, O. P., Die
      abendländischen Schriftausleger bis Luther über die Iustitia Dei und
      Iustificatio, Mainz 1905.

  795 Cfr. Mark XVI, 15 sq.; Gal. I, 6 sqq.; Tit. III, 10 sq.

  796 Cfr. St. Thomas, Summa Theol., 2a 2ae, qu. 2, art. 7: “Post
      tempus autem gratiae revelatae tam maiores quant minores tenentur
      [necessitate praecepti] habere fidem explicitam de mysteriis
      Christi, praecipue quantum ad ea, quae communiter in Ecclesia
      solemnizantur et publice proponuntur, sicut sunt articuli
      Incarnationis.... Alias autem subtiles considerationes circa
      Incarnationis articulos tenentur aliqui magis vel minus explicite
      credere, secundum quod convenit statui et officio uniuscuiusque.”
      This point is well developed by Ballerini, Opus Theologicum
      Morale, ed. D. Palmieri, Vol. II, 3rd ed., pp. 9 sqq., Prati 1898.

  797 Heb. XI, 6.

  798 Chiefly Andrew Vega, Ripalda, and some modern writers.

  799 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 6; Conc. Vatican., Sess. III, cap.
      3, V. supra, pp. 182 sqq.

  800 “Nonnisi fides unius Dei necessaria videtur necessitate medii, non
      autem explicita remuneratoris.” Prop. Damn. ab Innocenti XI.,
      prop. 22, in Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1172.

  801 Heb. XI, 6.

  802 Cfr. Wirceburg, De Gratia, n. 120: “Quia tamen qui credit et
      sperat remuneratorem supernaturalem, satis hoc ipso etiam credit
      animae perpetuitatem et necessitatem auxilii melioris ad salutem,
      fides horum explicita et per distinctos conceptus non semper in re
      et actualiter necessaria existimatur.”

  803 Gregory of Valentia, Becanus, Thomas Sanchez, and many Thomists.

  804 Suarez, De Lugo, and a large number of other theologians.

  805 Cfr. Rom. III, 22.

  806 Cfr. John III, 18.

  807 Cfr. Acts IV, 12.

  810 “Missionarium teneri adulto etiam moribundo, qui incapax omnino non
      sit, explicare fidei mysteria, quae sunt necessaria necessitate
      medii, ut sunt praecipue mysteria Trinitatis et Incarnationis.”
      Cfr. Prop. Damn. ab Innocentio XI. a. 1679, prop. 64
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1214). For a full explanation of the topics
      treated in the present Section consult Suarez, De Fide, disp. 12,
      sect. 4; De Lugo, De Fide, disp. 12, sect. 4 sq.; W. Liese, Der
      heilsnotwendige Glaube, Freiburg 1902.

  811 Cfr. Solid. Declar., art. 3: “Neque contritio neque dilectio
      neque ulla virtus, sed sola fides [=fiducia] est medium et
      instrumentum, quo gratiam Dei, merita Christi et remissionem
      peccatorum apprehendere possumus.”

  812 Instit., III, 11, § 19: “Dicimus hominem solâ fide iustificari.”
      For a classic exposition of the Lutheran and Calvinistic views of
      faith, see Möhler, Symbolik, § 16; English tr. by James Burton
      Robertson, 5th ed., London 1906, pp. 124 sqq.

  813 Sess. VI, can. 9: “Si quis dixerit, solâ fide impium iustificari,
      ita ut intelligat nihil aliud requiri quod ad iustificationis
      gratiam consequendam cooperetur et nullâ ex parte necesse esse, eum
      suae voluntatis motu praeparari atque disponi, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 819.)

  814 Sess. VI, cap. 6. The passage is quoted infra, p. 296.

  815 He contemptuously called it “ein ströherne Epistel,” a letter of
      straw.

  816 Matth. VII, 21: “Non omnis, qui dicit mihi, Domine, Domine,
      intrabit in regnum caelorum: sed qui facit voluntatem Patris mei,
      qui in caelis est, ipse intrabit in regnum caelorum.”

  817 Jas. II, 24: “Videtis quoniam ex operibus iustificatur homo, et non
      ex fide tantum (ἐξ ἔργων δικαιοῦνται ἄνθρωπος, καὶ οὐκ ἐκ πίστεως
      μόνον).”

  818 1 Cor. XIII, 2: “Et si habuero omnem fidem (πάσαν τὴν πίστιν), ita
      ut montes transferam, caritatem (ἀγάπην) autem non habuero, nihil
      sum.”

  819 Ecclus. I, 28: “Qui sine timore est, non poterit iustificari.”

  820 Rom. VIII, 24: “Spe enim salvi facti sumus.”

  821 Luke VII, 47: “Remittuntur ei peccata multa, quoniam (ὅτι) dilexit
      multum.”

  822 Luke XIII, 3: “Nisi poenitentiam habueritis, omnes similiter
      peribitis.”

  823 Jac. II, 17: “Fides, si non habet opera, mortua est in semetipso.”

  824 Gal. V, 6: “In Christo Iesu neque circumcisio aliquid valet neque
      praeputium, sed fides quae per caritatem operatur (πίστις δι᾽
      ἀγάπης ἐνεργουμένη).”

  825 Jac. II, 26: “Sicut enim corpus sine spiritu mortuum est, ita et
      fides sine operibus mortua est.”

  826 Rom. III, 28: “Arbitramur enim hominem iustificari per fidem sine
      operibus legis.”

  827 De Fide et Lib. Arbitrio, c. 7, n. 18.

  828 On the misinterpretation of other Scripture texts by the Reformers
      see Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, I, 19-24.

  829 Ep. ad Philipp., 3.

  830 Serm., XVI, c. 6: “A fide incipit homo, sed et daemones credunt et
      contremiscunt; adde ergo fidei spem speique ipsi adde caritatem.”

  831 De Trinit., XXV, 18: “Sine caritate quippe fides potest quidem
      esse, sed non et prodesse.”

  832 Hom. in Evang., 29: “Fortasse unusquisque apud semetipsum dicat:
      Ego iam credidi, salvus ero. Verum dicit, si fidem operibus tenet.
      Vera etenim fides est, quae in hoc quod verbis dicit moribus non
      contradicit.” As to the sense in which some of the Fathers speak of
      faith as the only thing that can save men, cfr. Bellarmine De
      Iustificat., I, 26. 113, art. 5:
      “Iustificatio impii est quidam motus, quo humana mens movetur a Deo
      a statu peccati in statum iustitiae.... Unde oportet quod mens
      humana, dum iustificatur, per motum liberi arbitrii recedat a
      peccato et accedat ad iustitiam. Recessus autem et accessus in motu
      liberi arbitru accipitur secundum detestationem et desiderium....
      Oportet igitur quod in iustificatione impii sit motus liberi
      arbitrii duplex: unus quo per desiderium tendat in Dei iustitiam, et
      alius quo detestetur peccatum.”

  834 De Libertate Voluntatis Humanae, Leipzig 1555.

  835 “Klotz-, Stock- und Stein-theorie.”

  836 “Das Torgische Buch,” A. D. 1576.

  837 “Articulus stantis et cadentis ecclesiae.” Cfr. Newman, Lectures
      on Justification, p. 113.

  838 Geschichte der protestantischen Theologie, p. 583, München 1867.

  839 Die Gnadenlehre und die stille Reformation, Christiania 1894. Not
      long after writing this book Dr. Krogh-Tonning became a Catholic. Cfr. also F. Hettinger,
      Die Krisis des Christentums, pp. 72 sqq., Freiburg 1881.

  841 Cfr. Pohle, art. on “Tradition” in Herder’s Kirchenlexikon, 2nd
      ed., Vol. XI, 1933 sqq., Freiburg 1899.

  842 “Pecca fortiter, crede fortius.” Cfr. Möhler, Symbolism (English
      tr., p. 130).

  843 Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, §455,
      Mainz 1899. The “orthodox” Lutheran teaching is strongly stated by
      the famous convert Dr. Edw. Preuss in his work, still regarded as a
      classic by “orthodox” Lutherans, Die Rechtfertigung des Sünders vor
      Gott, Berlin 1868.

  844 Sess. VI, cap. 8.

  845 Sess. VI, cap. 6.

  851 Contritio caritate perfecta.

  852 Votum sacramenti, sacramentum in voto.

  853 Cfr. Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 4 and 14.

  854 Cfr. Ez. XVIII, 30; Joel II, 12; Luke XIII, 3; Acts II, 38. Cfr.
      Conc. Trid., Sess. XIV, cap. 4: “Contritio, quae primum locum
      inter dictos poenitentis actus habet, animi dolor ac detestatio est
      de peccato commisso cum proposito non peccandi de cetero. Fuit autem
      quovis tempore ad impetrandam veniam peccatorum hic contritionis
      motus necessarius.”

  855 Cfr. Summa Theol., 3a, qu. 87, art. 1: “Exigitur autem ad
      remissionem peccati mortalis perfectior poenitentia, ut scil. homo
      actualiter pecoatum mortale commissum detestetur, quantum in ipso
      est, ut scil. diligentiam adhibeat ad memorandum singula peccata
      mortalia, ut singula detestetur. Sed hoc non requiritur ad
      remissionem venialium peccatorum.... Unde sequitur quod requiratur
      quaedam virtualis displicentia, ... quod tamen non sufficit ad
      remissionem peccati mortalis, nisi quantum ad peccata oblita post
      diligentem inquisitionem.”

  856 Cfr. Tepe, Inst. Theol., Vol. III, pp. 204 sqq., Paris 1896.

  857 Fides mortua in contradistinction to fides viva.

  858 Gal. V, 6.

  859 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, can. 28: “Si quis dixerit, amissâ per
      peccatum gratiâ simul et fidem semper amitti aut fidem, quae
      remanet, non esse veram fidem, licet non sit viva, aut eum qui fidem
      sine caritate habet, non esse Christianum, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 838.) The Scriptural argument for this
      thesis is developed by Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, I, 15.

  860 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. Conc., p. 2, c. 3: “Quando autem docemus, quod per
      operationem Spiritus Sancti regeneramur et iustificamur, non ita
      accipiendum est quod iustificatis et renatis nulla prorsus
      iniustitia substantiae ipsorum et conversationi adhaereat, sed quod
      Christus perfectissimâ obedientiâ suâ omnia ipsorum peccata tegat,
      quae quidem in ipsa natura infixa haerent. Nihilominus tamen per
      fidem propter obedientiam Christi boni et iusti pronuntiantur et
      reputantur, etiamsi ratione corruptae naturae suae sint maneantque
      peccatores, dum mortale hoc corpus circumferunt.”

  864 Antid. Conc. Trid., ad Sess. V: “Manet vere peccatum in nobis
      neque per baptismum statim uno die extinguitur.” Cfr. Möhler,
      Symbolik, § 14 (Robertson’s translation, 5th ed., pp. 110 sqq.).

  865 Conc. Trid., Sess. V, can. 5: “Si quis per Iesu Christi D. N.
      gratiam, quae in baptismate confertur, reatum originalis peccati
      remitti negat aut etiam asserit, non tolli totum id quod veram et
      propriam peccati rationem habet, sed illud dicit tantum radi aut non
      imputari, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 792.)

  866 Sess. VI, cap. 14; Sess. XIV, cap. 2. See Pohle-Preuss, The
      Sacraments, Vol. II, Penance.

  867 “Dele iniquitatem meam.”

  868 Is. XLIII, 25: “Ego sum ipse, qui deleo iniquitates tuas.”

  869 Is. XLIV, 22: “Delevi ut nubem iniquitates tuas et quasi nebulam
      peccata tua.”

  870 Acts III, 19: “Poenitemini igitur et convertimini, ut deleantur
      peccata vestra.”

  871 2 Kings XII, 13: “Dominus quoque transtulit peccatum tuum.”

  872 1 Paral. XXI, 8: “Obsecro, aufer iniquitatem servi tui.”

  873 Mich. VII, 18 sq.: “Quis, Deus, similis tui, qui aufers
      iniquitatem?... Deponet [Deus] iniquitates nostras et proiiciet in
      profundum maris omnia peccata nostra.”

  874 Ps. X, 15: “Quaeretur peccatum illius, et non invenietur.”

  875 Ps. CII, 12: “Quantum distat ortus ab occidente, longe fecit a
      nobis iniquitates nostras.”

  876 Luke VII, 47: “Remittuntur ei peccata multa.”

  877 Ps. L, 4: “Amplius lava me ab iniquitate mea et a peccato meo munda
      me.”

  878 Is. I, 16: “Lavamini, mundi estote.”

  879 Ez. XXXVI, 25 sq.: “Effundam super vos aquam mundam et mundabimini
      ab omnibus inquinamentis vestris.... Et dabo vobis cor novum.”

  880 1 Cor. VI, 11: “Et haec quidam [fornicarii etc.] fuistis, sed
      abluti estis, sed sanctificati estis, sed iustificati estis.”

  881 Ps. L, 9: “Asperges me hyssopo et mundabor, lavabis me et super
      nivem dealbabor.”

  882 Is. I, 18: “Si fuevint peccata vestra ut coccinum, quasi nix
      dealbabuntur, et si fuerint rubra quasi vermiculus, velut lana alba
      erunt.”

  883 Apoc. I, 5: “... dilexit nos et lavit nos a peccatis nostris in
      sanguine suo.”

  884 1 John I, 7: “Sanguis Iesu Christi ... emundat nos ab omni
      peccato.”

  885 1 John III, 14: “Translati sumus de morte ad vitam, quoniam
      diligimus fratres: qui non diligit, manet in morte.”

  886 Col. II, 13: “Et vos, quum mortui essetis in delictis, ...
      convivificavit cum illo donans vobis omnia delicta.”

  887 Eph. V, 8: “Eratis enim aliquando tenebrae, nunc autem lux in
      Domino.”

  888 Acts XXII, 16: “Exsurge et baptizare et ablue peccata tua.”

  889 Rom. VIII, 1: “Nihil ergo nunc damnationis est iis, qui sunt in
      Christo Iesu.” Cfr. on this point the dogmatic treatise on the
      Sacrament of Baptism.

  890 Cfr. Becanus, Theol. Scholast., P. II, tr. 5, cap. 1, qu. 1.

  891 Ps. XXXI, 1 sq.: “Beati quorum remissae sunt iniquitates et quorum
      tecta sunt peccata; beatus vir cui non imputavit Dominus peccatum
      nec est in spiritu eius dolus.”

  892 Heb. IV, 13. Cfr. St. Augustine, Enarr. in Ps., II, 31, n. 12:
      “Deus tegat vulnera, noli tu. Nam si tu tegere volueris erubescens,
      medicus non curabit. Medicus tegat et curet; emplastro enim tegit.
      Sub tegmine medici curatur vulnus, sub tegmine vulnerati celatur
      vulnus.”

  893 Rom. VII, 17: “Nunc autem iam non ego operor illud, sed quod
      habitat in me peccatum.”

  894 Peccatum, ἁμαρτία.

  895 Sess. V, can. On Jas. I, 14 sq., St. Augustine observes:
      “Profecto in his verbis partus a pariente discernitur. Pariens enim
      est concupiscentia, partus peccatum. Sed concupiscentia non parit
      nisi conceperit, nec concipit nisi illexerit, h. e. ad malum
      perpetrandum obtinuerit volentis assensum. Quod ergo adversus eam
      dimicamur, hoc agitur, ne concipiat pariatque peccatum.” (Contra
      Iulian., VI, 15, 47.) For a more exhaustive discussion of this
      subject see Bellarmine, De Justif., II, 9.

  896 Dial. c. Tryph., n. 141.

  897 Strom., l. II.

  898 Or., 40.

  899 Contra Duas Epistolas Pelagian., I, 13, 26: “Quis hoc adversus
      Pelagianos nisi infidelis affirmet? Dicimus ergo baptisma dare
      omnium indulgentiam peccatorum et auferre crimina, non radere; nec
      ut omnium peccatorum radices in mala carne teneantur, quasi rasorum
      in capite capillorum, unde crescunt iterum resecanda peccata.”

  900 Ep., l. II, ep. 45: “Si qui vero sunt qui dicunt, peccata in
      baptismate superficie tenus dimitti, quid est hac praedicatione
      infidelius?... Qui dicit peccata in baptismate funditus non dimitti,
      dicat in mari rubro Aegyptios non veraciter mortuos. Si autem
      fatetur, Aegyptios veraciter mortuos, fateatur necesse est, peccata
      in baptismate funditus mori.” Other confirmatory texts apud Alb.
      a Bulsano, Instit. Theol. Dogmat. Specialis, ed. P. Gottfr. a
      Graun, O. Cap., Vol. II, pp. 226 sq., Innsbruck 1894.

  901 Apoc. XXI, 27: “Non intrabit in coelum aliquod coinquinatum.”

  902 Privatio, στέρησις.

  903 Cfr. St. Thomas, De Veritate, qu. 28, art. 1 sqq.; IDEM, Summa
      Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 113, art. 2.

  904 Cfr. Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, II, 1 and 6.

  905 Apol. Confess. August., c. 3, art. 6: “Iustificare veto hoc loco
      (Rom. VIII, 1) forensi consuetudine significat reum absolvere et
      pronuntiare iustum, sed propter alienam iustitiam, videl. Cfr.
      also Newman’s Lectures on Justification, Lecture I (8th
      impression, London 1900).

  908 Sess. VI, cap. 7: “Iustificatio non est sola peccatorum remissio,
      sed et sanctificatio et renovatio interioris hominis per voluntariam
      susceptionem gratiae et donorum....” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 799.)

  909 Sess. VI, cap. 11: “Si quis dixerit, homines iustificari vel solâ
      imputatione iustitiae Christi vel solâ peccatorum remissione,
      exclusâ gratiâ et caritate, quae in cordibus eorum per Spiritum
      Sanctum diffundatur atque illis inhaereat, aut etiam gratiam quâ
      iustificamur esse tantum favorem Dei, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 821.)

  910 Sess. VI, cap. 7: “Huius iustificationis causae sunt: formalis
      quidem gloria Dei et Christi ac vita aeterna; efficiens vero
      misericors Deus, qui gratuito abluit et sanctificat; ... meritoria
      autem dilectissimus Unigenitus suus D. N. Iesus Christus, qui ...
      suâ sanctissimâ passione in ligno crucis nobis iustificationem
      meruit; ... instrumentalis item sacramentum baptismi, quod est
      sacramentum fidei, sine quâ nulli unquam contigit iustificatio;
      demum unica formalis causa est iustitia Dei, non quâ ipse iustus
      est, sed quâ nos iustos facit, quâ videl. ab eo donati renovamur
      spiritu mentis nostrae et non modo reputamur, sed vere iusti
      nominamur et sumus.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 799).

  911 Sess. VI, can. 10: “Si quis dixerit, homines sine Christi iustitia,
      per quam nobis meruit iustificari aut per eam ipsam formaliter
      iustos esse, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 820.)

  912 V. supra, Article 1.

  913 Cfr. Eph. II, 5; Col. II, 13; 1 John III, 14.

  914 Cfr. Eph. IV, 23 sq.

  915 Cfr. 2 Cor. V, 17; Gal. VI, 15; Jas. I, 18; Ps. L, 12.

  916 Cfr. John III, 5; Tit. III, 5.

  917 Cfr. Rom. VIII, 29; 2 Cor. III, 18; 2 Pet. I, 4.

  918 John III, 5.

  919 Tit. III, 5 sqq.: “Non ex operibus iustitiae quae fecimus nos, sed
      secundum suam misericordiam salvos nos fecit (ἔσωσεν ἡμᾶς) per
      lavacrum regenerationis et renovationis (διὰ λυτροῦ παλιγγενεσίας
      καὶ ἀνακαινώσεως) Spiritus Sancti, quem effudit (ἐξέχεεν) in nos
      abunde per Iesum Christum Salvatorem nostrum, ut iustificati
      (δικαιωθέντες) gratiâ ipsius haeredes simus secundum spem vitae
      aeternae.”

  920 Cfr. John I, 12 sq.; Rom. VIII, 16; Gal. III, 7; IV, 6 sq.; 1 John
      III, 1.

  921 Cfr. Eph. IV, 22 sqq.

  922 Cfr. Col. III, 9 sq.

  923 Cfr. Acts II, 38; X, 45 sqq.; Rom. V, 5.

  924 Cfr. J. Pohle, article “Regeneration” in the Catholic
      Encyclopedia, Vol. XII, and A. Rademacher, Die übernatürliche
      Lebensordnung nach der paulinischen und johanneischen Theologie,
      pp. 41 sqq., Freiburg 1903.

  925 2 Cor. V, 17: “Si qua ergo in Christo nova creatura (καινὴ κτίσις),
      vetera transierunt; ecce facta sunt omnia nova.” Cfr. Eph. II, 10.

  926 Jac. I, 18: “Voluntarie enim genuit (ἀπεκύησεν) nos verbo
      veritatis, ut simus initium aliquod creaturae eius.”

  927 Gal.

  930 Iustificare, δικαιοῦν.

  931 E.g., Rom. V, 15 sqq. and Gal. III, 8 sqq.

  932 Ps. CXVIII, 8: “Iustificationes tuas custodiam.”

  933 Ps. CXVIII, 26: “... doce me iustificationes tuas.”

  934 Apoc. XXII, 11: “Qui iustus est, iustificetur adhuc, et sanctus
      sanctificetur adhuc.” On the different meanings of the term
      justification in Scripture see Bellarmine, De Iustific., I, 1; II,
      3.

  935 Gal. III, 27: “Quicunque enim in Christo baptizati estis, Christum
      induistis.”

  936 Cfr. Eph. IV, 22 sqq.; Col. III, 8 sqq.

  937 1 Cor. I, 30: “Qui factus est nobis sapientia a Deo et iustitia
      (δικαιοσύνη) et sanctificatio (ἁγιασμός) et redemptio.”

  938 Other objections are refuted by Bellarmine, De Iustif., II, 9 sqq.

  939 Cfr. Calvin, Instit., III, 11, § 15: “Ac nec Augustini quidem
      sententia recipienda est, qui gratiam ad sanctificationem refert,
      quâ in vitae novitatem per Spiritum Sanctum regeneramur.”

  940 On the Epistle of Barnabas see Bardenhewer-Shahan, Patrology, p.
      24. The passage quoted will be found Ep. Barn., VI, 11.

  941 Hom. ad Illumin., I, n. 3.

  942 ὡς ἄν εἰ ἄνωθεν ἐγεννήθημεν.

  943 καὶ γὰρ ἄνωθεν ἡμᾶς δημιουργεῖ καὶ κατασκευάζει.

  944 De Myst., c. 7: “Accepisti post haec vestimenta candida [scil.
      post baptismum], ut sint indicium quod exueris involucrum peccati,
      indueris innocentiae casta velamina.”

  945 De Iustific., II, 8.

  946 De Spiritu et Litera, c. 9, n. 15: “Non dicit iustitia
      hominis,... sed iustitia Dei, non quâ Deus iustus est, sed quâ
      induit hominem, quum iustificat impium.... Iustitia autem Dei per
      fidem Iesu Christi, hoc est, per fidem quâ creditur in Christum.
      Sicut autem ista fides Christi dicta est, non quâ credit Christus,
      sic et illa iustitia Dei, non quâ iustus est Deus. Utrumque enim
      nostrum est; sed ideo Dei et Christi dicuntur, quod eius nobis
      largitate donatur.”

  947 De Gratia Christi, c. 13: “Si data est nobis iustitia, non
      dicitur iustitia nostra, sed Dei, quia sic fit nostra, ut sit nobis
      ex Deo.”

  948 Serm., 131: “Dei gratia per Dominum nostrum Iesum Christum
      iustitia Dei dicitur, non quâ iustus est Dominus, sed quâ iustificat
      eos, quos ex impiis iustos facit.”

  949 De Spir. et Lit., c. 32, n. 56: “Caritas Dei dicta est diffundi
      in cordibus nostris, non quâ ipse nos diligit, sed quâ, nos facit
      dilectores suos, sicut iustitia Dei, quâ nos iusti eius munere
      efficimur.”

  950 De Trinit., XV, 8, 14: “Quod vero ait (2 Cor. III, 18): In
      eandem imaginem transformamur, utique imaginem Dei vult
      intellegi, eandem dicens istam ipsam, scil., quam speculamur ...
      atque transimus de forma obscura in formam lucidam.... Quae natura
      [humana] in rebus creatis excellentissima, quum a suo Creatore ab
      impietate iustificatur, a deformi forma formosam transfertur in
      formam.”

  951 Other Patristic texts can be seen in Ripalda, De Ente Supernal.,
      disp. 132, sect. 7; Petavius, De Trinit., VIII, 4-7; Bellarmine,
      De Gratia et Lib. Arbitrio, I, 4.

  952 For a more detailed treatment of this point we must refer the reader
      to Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmat. Theologie, Vol. VIII, pp. 537 sqq.

  953 Quoted by De Wette, II, 37.

  954 V. infra, Section 3.

  955 Sess. IV, cap. 7.

  956 V. infra, Sect. 2, Art. 2.

  957 Cfr. Bellarmine, De Iustific., II, 1.

  958 Seripando, Albertus Pighius, Gropper, and others.

  959 On the discussion referred to in the text see Pallavicini, Hist.
      Conc. Trid., VIII, 11, 12; Aug. Theiner, Acta Genuina Concil.
      Trid., tom. I, pp. 222 sqq., Leipzig 1874.

  960 Eph. V, 8; 2 Cor. VI, 14.

  961 Col. II, 13; 1 John III, 14.

  962 Eph. IV, 22 sqq.; Col. III, 9.

  963 V. supra, No. 2.

  964 On the history of the Tridentine decree regarding justification cfr.
      J. Hefner, Die Entstehungsgeschichte des Trienter
      Rechtfertigungsdekretes, Paderborn 1909.

  965 Ockam, Gabriel Biel, et al.

  966 Henno, Mastrius, et al.

  967 Suarez, De Gratia, 1. VII, c. 20, n. 7: “... non obstante illâ
      oppositione et repugnantiâ connaturali potest Deus de suâ absolutâ
      potentiâ eam vincere et conservare gratiam in eo, qui peccavit, non
      remittendo illi peccatum.”

  968 Vasquez, Sardagna, Antoine, Mazzella, Tepe, et al.

  969 Col. II, 13; 1 John III, 14.

  970 2 Cor. VI, 14 sqq.

  971 Cfr. 1 John III, 9: “Omnis, qui natus est ex Deo, peccatum non
      facit, quoniam semen ipsius (σπέρμα αὐτοῦ) in eo manet et non
      potest peccare (οὐ δύναται ἁμαρτάνειν), quoniam ex Deo natus
      est.”

  972 V. infra, Sect. 2, Art. 1.

  973 For the solution of other difficulties consult Tepe, Inst. Theol.,
      Vol. VIII, pp. 152 sqq. On the whole subject of this subdivision
      cfr. Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 7, art. 7-10; cfr. also Scheeben, Die Mysterien des
      Christentums, 3rd ed., pp. 543 sqq., Freiburg 1912.

  974 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 7: “Per spiritum sanctum caritas Dei
      diffunditur in cordibus eorum, qui iustificantur, atque ipsis
      inhaeret.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 800.)

  975 Sess. VI, cap. 16: “Quae enim iustitia nostra dicitur, quia per eam
      nobis inhaerentem iustificamur, illa eadem Dei est, quia a Deo nobis
      infunditur per Christi meritum.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 809.)

  976 Sess. VI, can. VI, cap. 4: “[Iustificatio est] translatio ... in statum
      gratiae et adoptionis filiorum Dei.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 796.)

  978 Cfr. Pallavicini, Hist. Conc. Trid., VIII, 14, 3: “Postulantibus
      quibusdam, ut expressius declararetur fieri iustitiam per habitum
      infusum, delecti Patres ad id responderunt, id satis explicari per
      vocem inhaeret, quae stabilitatem significat et habitibus
      congruit, non actibus.” It was on the same ground that Pius V
      censured the forty-second proposition of Baius, viz.: “Iustitia
      quâ iustificatur per fidem impius, consistit formaliter in
      obedientia mandatorum, quae est operum iustitia; non autem in gratia
      aliqua animae infusa, quâ adoptatur homo in filium Dei, et secundum
      interiorem hominem renovatur ac divinae naturae consors efficitur.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1042.)

  979 Cfr. the Cap. Maiores of Pope Innocent III (Decret., l. 3, tit. Nos attendentes generalem efficaciam mortis
      Christi, quae per baptisma applicatur pariter omnibus baptizatis,
      opinionem secundam tamquam probabiliorem et dictis sanctorum et
      modernorum theologorum magis consonam et conformem sacro approbante
      concilio duximus eligendam.”

  981 Cfr. Conc. Trid., Sess. V, can. 4; Sess. VII, can. 13. For a
      fuller treatment consult Suarez, De Gratia, VI, 3; Vasquez,
      Comment. in S. Th., I, 2, disp. 203, cap. 6. The false views of
      Hermes and Hirscher are refuted by Kleutgen, Theologie der
      Vorzeit, Vol. II, 2nd ed., pp. 254-343, Münster 1872.

  982 Libri Quatuor Sent., I, dist 17, § 18.

  983 Summa Theol., 2a 2ae, qu. 23, art. 2.

  984 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, can. 24.

  985 Cfr. 110, art. 1; Summa
      contra Gentiles, III, 150.

  987 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and the Supernatural,
      p. 193. Et quia
      gratia est supra naturam humanam, non potest esse quod sit
      substantia aut forma substantialis, sed est forma accidentalis
      ipsius animae. Id enim quod substantialiter est in Deo,
      accidentaliter fit in anima participante divinam bonitatem.”

  989 Cfr. Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 6, art. 2.

  990 This theory was based on such texts as Ps. L, 12: “Cor mundum crea
      in me.”

  991 Cat. Rom., P. II, c. 2 de Bapt., qu. 49: “Est autem gratia ...
      divina qualitas in anima inhaerens ac veluti splendor quidam et lux,
      quae animarum nostrarum maculas omnes delet ipsasque animas
      pulchriores et splendidiores reddit.” On the supernatural character
      of sanctifying grace see Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and
      the Supernatural, pp. 191 sqq.

  992 Categ., 6. 19, art. 2; S.
      Schiffini, Principia Philosophica ad Mentem Aquinatis, pp. 574
      sqq., Turin 1886; A. Lehmen, Lehrbuch der Philosophie auf
      aristotelisch-thomistischer Grundlage, Vol. I, 3rd ed., pp. 398
      sqq., Freiburg 1904.

  994 De Veritate, qu. 27, art. 2, ad 7: “Gratia est in prima specie
      qualitatis, quamvis non proprie possit dici habitus, quia non
      immediate ordinatur ad actum, sed ad quoddam esse spiritale, quod in
      anima facit.”

  995 De Gratia, VI, 4, 1: “Abstinuimus ab hac voce, quia per habitum
      solet intelligi principium actus; quamvis, si vox illa latius
      sumatur, pro quacumque qualitate perficiente animam, quae non sit
      actus secundus, eadem certitudine, quâ ostendimus dari gratiam
      permanentem, concluditur esse qualitatem habitualem.”

  996 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, I, 3.

  997 Cfr. Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 30.

  999 Cfr. 1 John, III, 9: “σπέρμα αὐτοῦ [scil. Θεοῦ] ἐν αὐτῷ μένει.”

 1000 Cfr. 2 Cor. IV, 7: “... thesaurum in vasis fictilibus.”

 1001 Cfr. John XIV, 23: “Mansionem apud eum faciemus.”

 1002 Cfr. 1 Cor. III, 16.—On the subtle question whether habitual grace
      is to be regarded as a real or merely as a modal accident of the
      soul, see Tepe, Inst. Theol., Vol. An extreme and altogether unacceptable view is that
      of Billuart (De Gratia, diss. 6, art. 2), who regards sanctifying
      grace as an absolute accident, i.e. one which the omnipotence of
      God could miraculously sustain if the soul ceased to exist. Cfr.
      Suarez, De Gratia, VII, 15; Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, p. 259;
      Tepe, Inst. Theol., Vol. III, pp. 164 sqq.

 1003 Comment. in Quatuor Libros Sent., II, dist. 27.

 1004 E.g., Mastrius, De Iustif., disp. 7, qu. 6.

 1005 De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, I, 6. IV, 8: “Caritas (ἀγάπη) operit multitudinem peccatorum.”

 1008 1 John IV, 7: “Omnis qui diligit (πᾶσ ὁ ἀγαπῶν) ex Deo natus est.”

 1009 De Natura et Gratia, c. 70, n. 84: “Caritas ergo inchoata,
      inchoata iustitia est, ... caritas magna, magna iustitia est,
      caritas perfecta, perfecta iustitia est.”

 1010 Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap.

 1012 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 110, art. 3 sq.; De Veritate, qu. 27,
      art. 2.

 1013 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 110, art. 4, ad 1: “Sicut ab essentia
      animae effluunt eius potentiae, quae sunt operum principia, ita
      etiam ab ipsa gratia effluunt virtutes [theologicae] in potentias
      animae, per quas [virtutes] potentiae moventur ad actus.”

 1014 De Dono Perseverantiae, c. 16, n. 41: “Gratia praevenit
      caritatem.”

 1015 2 Cor. XIII, 13: “Gratia Domini nostri Iesu Christi et caritas
      Dei.”

 1016 1 Tim. I, 14: “Superabundavit autem gratia Domini nostri cum fide
      et dilectione.”

 1017 Cfr. Conc. Viennense, A. D. 1311: “... gratiam informantem et
      virtutes.” Conc. Trid., Sess. VI, cap. 7: “... per voluntariam
      susceptionem gratiae et donorum.” Sess. VI, can. 11: “... exclusâ
      gratiâ et caritate.”

 1018 For a fuller treatment of this topic consult Billuart, De Gratia,
      diss. 4, art. 4.

 1019 Ripalda justly observes (De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 132, n. 132,
      n. 53): “Haec controversia olim Celebris fuit. Nunc facile
      dirimitur, quum iam constiterit nullius partis argumenta plane
      convincere.” On the theological aspects of Herbart’s philosophy,
      which denies the existence of qualities and faculties in the soul,
      see Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, p. 560,
      Mainz 1897.

 1020 2 Pet. I, 4: “... per quem [i.e. Christum] maxima et pretiosa nobis
      promissa donavit, ut per haec efficiamini divinae consortes naturae
      (θείας κοινωνοὶ φύσεως).”

 1021 John I, 13: “... qui non ex sanguinibus, ... sed ex Deo nati
      sunt.”

 1022 John III, 5: “Nisi quis renatus fuerit ex aqua et Spiritu Sancto,
      non potest introire in regnum Dei.”

 1023 Jac. Arian., I, 39.

 1026 ἵνα μᾶλλον ἡμᾶς θεοποιήση.

 1027 In Psalmos, 49, n. 2: “Ille iustficat, qui per seipsum, non ex
      alio iustus est; et ille deificat qui per seipsum non alterius
      participatione Deus est. Qui autem iustificat, ipse deificat, quia
      iustificando filios Dei facit.... Filii Dei facti sumus et dii facti
      sumus; sed hoc gratia est adoptantis, non natura generantis. Unicum
      enim Dei Filius Deus, ... ceteri qui dii fiunt, gratiâ ipsius fiunt,
      non de substantia ipsius nascuntur, ut hoc sint quod ille, sed ut
      per beneficium perveniant ad eum et sint cohaeredes Christi.” Many
      other cognate Patristic texts in Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali,
      disp. 132, sect. 7-9.

 1028 See, e.g., the Offertory and Preface for the festival of the
      Ascension of our Lord and the Secreta for the fourth Sunday after
      Easter.

 1029 Cfr. 4, art. 3.

 1030 Cfr. Prop. Ekkardi a. 1329 damn. a Ioanne XXII, prop. 10, quoted
      in Denzinger-Bannwart’s Enchiridion, n. 510.

 1031 Cfr. Prop. Mich. de Molinos a. 1687 damn, ab Innocentio XI, prop.
      5, in Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1225.

 1032 The Fourth Council of the Lateran (A. D. 1215) calls it “doctrina
      non tam haeretica quam insana.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 433.)

 1033 St. Augustine, De Peccatorum Meritis et Remissione, II, 8, 10:
      “Nunc ergo et similes esse iam coepimus primitias spiritus
      habentes, et adhuc dissimiles sumus per reliquias vetustatis.
      Proinde inquantum similes, in tantum regenerante Spiritu filii Dei;
      inquantum autem dissimiles, in tantum filii carnis et saeculi.”

 1034 Quoted by Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 132, sect. 9. 112, art.

 1037 Cfr.

 1039 Clyp. Thomist., tom. VI, disp. 2, § 10.

 1040 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, VII, 1, 27: “Eo ipso quod divinum esse
      participatur, non participatur ut imparticipatum est.”

 1041 De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 20, sect. 14.

 1042 S. Theol., 1a, qu. 93, art. 4.

 1043 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, VII, 1, 30: “Vera ergo excellentia
      gratiae habitualis, propter quam dicitur esse singularis
      participatio divinae naturae, est ... quia, quum natura divina sit
      quaedam intellectualis natura altioris ordinis quam sit vel esse
      possit ulla substantia intellectualis creata, ille gradus
      intellectualitatis, qui est in divina natura, divino quodam et
      supernaturali modo participatur per habitualem gratiam, quo quidem
      modo a nulla substantia creata per se ipsam vel per potentiam sibi
      connaturalem participari potest.... Divina enim essentia in ratione
      obiecti intelligibilis in se et per visionem intuitivam ad ipsam Dei
      essentiam immediate terminatam adeo est elevata et excellens ratione
      purissimae actualitatis et immaterialitatis suae, ut a nulla
      substantia intellectuali possit connaturaliter videri, nisi a
      seipsa. Per gratiam vero et dona supernaturalia elevatur natura
      creata intellectualis ad participationem illius gradus
      intellectualitatis divinae, in quo possit obiectum illud
      intelligibile divinae essentiae in se intueri.”

 1044 John III, 6; cfr. 2 Cor. III, 18; Eph. V, 18.

 1045 De Spiritu Sancto, c. 9, n. 23.

 1046 πνευματικαί.

 1047 ἡ πρὸς Θεὸν ὁμοίωσις.

 1048 θεὸν γενέσθαι.

 1049 1 John III, 2: “Nunc filii Dei sumus et nondum apparuit, quid
      erimus; scimus quoniam, quum apparuerit, similes ei erimus (ὅμοιοι
      αὐτῷ ἐσόμεθα), quoniam videbimus eum sicuti est.” On this passage
      see Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability, Essence, and Attributes,
      pp. 96 sq. On the whole subject treated in this subdivision consult
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. IV, 24: “Induite novum hominem, qui secundum Deum creatus est
      in iustitia et sanctitate veritatis.” On this text see
      Pohle-Preuss, God the Author of Nature and the Supernatural, p.
      197.

 1052 Sess. VI, cap.

 1054 Gal. II, 20: “Vivo autem iam non ego, vivit vero in me Christus.”
      On the life of the soul in and through grace cfr.
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 466.

 1055 Cfr. 2 Cor. VII, 4: “Superabundo gaudio in omni tribulatione
      nostra.”

 1056 Is. XLIX, 16: “Ecce in manibus meis descripsi te.”

 1057 Rom. VIII, 28: “Diligentibus Deum omnia cooperantur in bonum.”

 1058 In Ps., 25: “Gratia divina pulchrificat sicut lux.”

 1059 Cat. Rom., P. II, Ch. II, qu. 49: “Est autem gratia ... splendor
      quidam et lux, quae animarum maculas delet ipsasque animas
      pulchriores et splendidiores reddit.” On the aptness of this simile
      see Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, p. 268. Freiburg 1901.

 1060 Ἄνθρωπος μέτρον πάντων.

 1061 Θεὸς μέτρον πάντων.

 1062 On the notion of beauty see Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability,
      Essence, and Attributes, pp. 265 sqq.

 1063 V. supra, Art. 1, No. 4.

 1064 On the divine appropriations see Pohle-Preuss, The Divine Trinity,
      pp. 244 sqq.

 1065 Rom. VIII, 29: “... praedestinavit conformes fieri imaginis Filii
      sui.”

 1066 Gal. IV, 19: “Filioli mei, quos iterum parturio, donec formetur
      Christus in vobis.”

 1067 V. infra, No. 4.

 1068 V. infra, Art. 3, No. 4. On the whole subject cfr.
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 465; H.
      Krug, De Pulchritudine Divina, pp. 53 sqq., 144 sqq., 241 sqq.,
      Freiburg 1902.

 1069 Sess. VI, cap. 7: “... unde homo ex iniusto fit iustus et ex
      inimico amicus.”

 1070 Sess. VI, cap. 10: “Sic ergo iustificati et amici Dei ac domestici
      facti....”

 1071 Wisd. VII, 14: “Participes facti sunt amicitiae Dei.”

 1072 John XV, 14 sq.: “Iam non dicam vos servos, ... vos autem dixi
      amicos.”

 1073 Matth. IX, 15: “Numquid possunt filii sponsi lugere, quamdiu cum
      illis est sponsus?”

 1074 Apoc. XIX, 7: “Venerunt nuptiae Agni et uxor eius praeparavit se.”
      Cfr. John III, 29; Eph. V, 23 sqq.; 2 Cor. XI, 2; Cant. IV, 1 sqq.;
      Ps. XLIV, 22 sqq. On the teaching of the Fathers see Cornelius a
      Lapide, Comment. in 2 Cor., XI, 2.

 1075 Eth. ad Nichom., VIII sq.

 1076 Cfr. St. Thomas, Comment. in Quatuor Libros Sent., III, dist. 27,
      qu. 2, art. 1, ad 1: “Amicitia vera desiderat videre amicum et
      colloquiis mutuis gaudere facit, ad quem principaliter est amicitia;
      non autem ita, quod delectatio ex amici visione et perfruitione,
      finis amicitiae ponatur.”

 1077 Cfr. St. Thomas, Summa Theologica, 1a 2ae, qu. 28, art. 1: “Quum
      aliquis amat aliquem amore amicitiae, vult ei bonum, sicut et sibi
      vult bonum, unde apprehendit eum ut alterum se, inquantum scil. ei
      vult bonum, sicut et sibi vult bonum. Et inde est, quod amicus
      dicitur esse alter ipse. Et Augustinus dicit in l. 4 Confess.: Bene
      quidam dixit de amico suo, dimidium animae meae.”

 1078 “Amicitia pares aut invenit aut facit.” In Mich., 7.

 1079 Prov. VIII, 31: “Deliciae meae esse cum filiis hominum.”

 1080 V. supra, Art. 1, No. 3. 37,
      qu. 2, art. 1, ad 10: “Amicitia dicitur esse non latens, non quod
      per certitudinem amor amid cognoscatur, sed quia per signa
      probabilia amor mutuus habentium coligitur. Et talis manifestatio
      potest esse de caritate, inquantum per aliqua signa potest aliquis
      probabiliter aestimare se habere caritatem.”

 1082 Cfr. Ecclus. XXXIV, 14 sqq.

 1083 Cfr. St. Thomas, op. cit., III, dist. 29, qu. 1, art. 3, ad 4:
      “Si esset possibile, quod ex nostris operibus aliquid Deo
      accresceret, habens caritatem multo plura faceret propter
      beatitudinem ei conservandam, quam propter eam sibi adipiscendam.”

 1084 1 John III, 17: “Qui habuerit substantiam huius mundi et viderit
      fratrem suum necessitatem habere et clauserit viscera sua ab eo,
      quomodo caritas Dei (ἡ ἀγάπη τοῦ Θεοῦ) manet in ea?”

 1085 V. supra, Art. 1, No. 4.

 1086 The singular opinion of Ripalda (De Caritate, disp. 33), that such
      a relation would be possible even in the state of pure nature, is
      rejected by Suarez as incorrect (De Caritate, disp. 3, sect. 5, n.
      4). On the whole question cfr. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp.
      305 sqq.

 1087 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 4: “... status gratiae et
      adoptionis filiorum Dei.”

 1088 Rom. VIII, 15 sqq.: “Accepistis ... spiritum adoptionis filiorum,
      in quo clamamus Abba, Pater; ipse enim Spiritus testimonium reddit
      spiritui nostro, quod sumus filii Dei; si autem filii, et haeredes:
      haeredes quidem Dei, cohaeredes autem Christi.”

 1089 1 John III, 1 sq.: “Videte, qualem caritatem dedit nobis Pater, ut
      filii Dei nominemur et simus ... Carissimi, nunc filii Dei sumus.”

 1090 Gal. IV, 5: “... ut adoptionem filiorum reciperemus.”

 1091 John I, 12 sq.: “... dedit eis potestatem filios Dei fieri, qui ...
      ex Deo nati sunt (ἔδωκεν αὐτοῖς ἐξουσίαν τέκνα Θεοῦ γενέσθαι, τοῖς
      ... ἐκ Θεοῦ ἐγεννήθησαν).”

 1092 Summa Theol., 3a, qu. 23, art. 1: “Adoptio est personae extraneae
      in filium et haeredem gratuita assumptio.”

 1093 Cfr. Gal. IV, 7: “Itaque iam non est servus, sed filius; quod si
      filius, et haeres per Deum.”

 1094 Cfr. Rom. VIII, 17; Gal. IV, 7.

 1095 Cfr. St. Thomas, Summa Theol., 3a, qu. 23, art. 1, ad 2.

 1096 Cfr. Conc. Pohle-Preuss, The Divine Trinity, pp. 49 sqq.

 1098 Cfr. John III, 5 sq.; 2 Cor. III, 18; Tit. III, 5 sqq.

 1099 Cfr. St. Thomas, Summa Theologica, 3a, qu. 23, art. 2, ad. St. Thomas, l.c., ad 2.

 1101 Suarez, De Incarnatione, disp. 49, sect. 2, n. 5.

 1102 This heresy is called Adoptionism; for a refutation of it see
      Pohle-Preuss, Christology, pp. 196 sqq.

 1103 1 John III, 1.

 1104 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Soteriology, pp. 15 sqq.

 1105 Or. in Is., II, 4.

 1106 V. infra, Art. 3, No. 4.

 1107 Cfr. J. Scheeben, “Kontroverse über die Formalursache der
      Kindschaft Gottes,” in the Katholik, of Mayence, 1883, I, pp. 142
      sqq., II, pp. 561 sqq.; 1884, I, 18 sqq. II, 465 sqq., 610 sqq.;
      Granderath, “Kontroverse über die Gotteskindschaft,” in the
      Innsbruck Zeitschrift für kath. Theologie, 1881, pp. 283 sqq.,
      1883, pp. 491 sqq., 593 sqq., 1884, pp. 545 sqq.

 1108 De Trinitate, VIII, 4 sqq.

 1109 Comment. in S. Theol., 3a, qu. 23, art. 3.

 1110 Cfr. Gal. IV, 7.

 1111 V. supra, p. 340.

 1112 Cat. Rom., P. II, c. 1, n. 51: “Huic [gratiae sanctificanti]
      additur nobilissimus omnium virtutum comitatus, quae in animam cum
      gratia divinitus infunduntur.”

 1113 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 7: “Unde in ipsa iustificatione
      cum remissione peccatorum haec omnia simul infusa accipit homo per
      Iesum Christum, cui inseritur, fidem, spem et caritatem.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 800.) The question whether the three
      theological virtues are genuine habitus operativi, must be
      answered in the affirmative; but its denial incurs no censure so
      long as the distinction existing between these habitual virtues and
      actual grace is left intact. It is of faith that habitual charity is
      infused simultaneously with habitual grace. Cfr. Conc. Theol., Vol. III, pp.
      175 sq., Paris 1896; Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 315 sqq.,
      Freiburg 1901.

 1114 Rom. 12: “Ad hoc
      autem, quod moveamur recte in finem [scil. Deum], oportet finem esse
      et cognitum et desideratum. Desiderium autem finis duo exigit, scil.
      fiduciam de fine obtinendo, quia nullus sapiens movetur ad id quod
      consequi non potest; et amorem finis, quia non desideratur nisi
      amatum. Et ideo virtutes theologicae sunt tres, scil. fides quâ Deum
      cognoscimus, spes quâ ipsum nos obtenturos esse speramus, et caritas
      quâ eum diligimus.”

 1118 Sess. VI, cap. 7.

 1119 This thesis is not, however, so certain that it would be wrong to
      contradict it, as has actually been done by Scotus, Durandus, and
      others. Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, VI, 9, 12. 57 sqq. That the
      cardinal virtues are four in number, St. Thomas proves as follows:
      “[Bonum rationis] potest dupliciter considerari: uno modo, prout
      habet rationein consiliabilis et eligibilis, secundum quam ratio
      circa illud operatur et sic est prudentia, quae est media inter
      intellectuales et morales; ... alio modo, secundum quod habet
      rationem boni appetibilis. Ad appetitum autem duo pertinent, scil.
      actio et passio; passio autem est in irascibili et concupiscibili.
      Circa actiones ergo est iustitia, circa passiones irascibiles est
      fortitudo, circa passiones concupiscibiles est temperantia. Et sic
      sunt quatuor virtutes cardinales.” (Comment. in Quatuor Libros
      Sent., III, dist. 33, qu. 2, art. 1, solut. 3.)

 1121 Wis. VIII, 7: “Et si iustitiam quis diligit, labores huius magnas
      habent virtutes; sobrietatem enim et prudentiam docet [Deus] et
      iustitiam et virtutem, quibus utilius nihil est in vita hominibus.”

 1122 Ez. XI, 19 sq.: “Et auferam cor lapideum de came eorum et dabo eis
      cor carneum, ut in praeceptis meis ambulent et iudicia mea
      custodiant.”

 1123 Cfr. Jer. XXXI, 33; Col. I, 10 sq.; 1 John II, 27.

 1124 In Ps., 83: “Istae virtutes nunc in convalle plorationis per
      gratiam Dei donantur nobis.”

 1125 Hom. in Ezech., I, 5, n. 11: “In fide enim, spe atque caritate,
      et in aliis bonis, sine quibus ad coelestem patriam non potest
      perveniri, ... perfectorum corda [Spiritus Sanctus] non deserit.”

 1126 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 63, art. 3: “Oportet effectus esse suis
      causis et principiis proportionatos. Omnes autem virtutes tam
      intellectuales quam morales, quae ex nostris actibus acquiruntur,
      procedunt ex quibusdam naturalibus principiis in nobis
      praeexistentibus.... Loco quorum naturalium principiorum conferuntur
      nobis a Deo virtutes theologicae, quibus ordinamur ad finem
      supernaturalem.... Unde oportet quod his etiam virtutibus
      theologicis proportionaliter respondeant alii habitus divinitus
      causati in nobis, qui sic se habent ad virtutes theologicas sicut se
      habent virtutes morales et intellectuales ad principia naturalia
      virtutum.” For further information on this subject consult
      Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie, Vol. VIII, § 471, Mainz
      1897; Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 319 sqq., Freiburg 1901;
      Van Noort, De Gratia Christi, pp. 161 sqq., Amsterdam 1908.

 1127 Cfr. Gregory of Valentia, Comment. in S. Theol., 1a 2ae, disp. 5,
      qu. 8, p. 1: “Dona Spiritus S. potentias animae perficiunt ad
      actiones quasdam heroicas, ... quâ ratione peculiariter procedunt ex
      divino quodam Spiritus S. instinctu, quo mens nostra plerumque
      mirabiliter solet agi et impelli ad quaedam opera praestantia et
      rara.... Atque ita in usu donorum homo potius agitur, in usu autem
      virtuturn se habet potius ut agens.” Cfr. Simar, Dogmatik, Vol.
      II, 4th ed., pp. 641 sqq., Freiburg 1899; Van Noort, De Gratia
      Christi, pp. 174 sqq.

 1128 Rom. VIII, 9 sqq.

 1129 Cfr. Is. XI, 1 sqq.; LXI, 1; Luke IV, 18. On
      the connection of the gifts of the Holy Ghost with the beatitudes
      (cfr. Matth. V, 3 sqq.) and the “twelve fruits of the Holy Ghost”
      (cfr. Gal. V, 22 sq.), see St. Thomas, Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu.
      69 and 70. The student may also consult Suarez, De Gratia, VI, 10,
      and Vasquez, Comment. in S. Theol., III, disp. 44, cap. 2.

 1131 Cfr. St. Bonaventure, Compendium Theol. Verit., I, 9: “In
      iustificatione duplex caritas nobis datur, scil. creata et increata:
      illa quâ diligimus, et illa quâ diligimur.... Ex his colligitur,
      quod licet Deus sit in omnibus per essentiam, praesentiam et
      potentiam, non tamen habetur ab omnibus per gratiam.”

 1132 John XIV, 16 sq.: “... alium Paraclitum dabit vobis, ut maneat
      vobiscum in aeternum.... Vos autem cognoscetis eum, quia apud vos
      manebit et in vobis (ἐν ὑμῖν) erit.”

 1133 Rom. VIII, 11: “Quodsi Spiritus eius, qui suscitavit Iesum a
      mortuis, habitat in vobis (οἰκεῖ ἐν ὑμῖν), qui suscitavit Iesnm
      Christum a mortuis, vivificabit et mortalia corpora vestra propter
      inhabitantem Spiritum eius in vobis (διὰ τοῦ ἐνοικοῦντος αὐτοῦ
      πνεύματος ἐν ὑμῖν).”

 1135 “Nescitis, quia templum Dei (ναὸς Θεοῦ) estis et Spiritus Dei
      habitat in vobis (οἰκεῖ ἐν ὑμῖν)?... Templum enim Dei sanctum est,
      quod estis vos.”

 1136 1 Cor. 6, 19: “An nescitis, quoniam membra vestra templum sunt
      Spiritus S., qui in vobis est, quem habetis a Deo et non estis
      vestri?” Cfr. Rom. VIII, 9; Gal. IV, 6; 2 Cor. VI, 16.

 1137 Ep. ad Serap., I, n. 24.

 1138 θεοποιοῦνται.

 1139 Contra Eunom., I, V.

 1140 Dialog., VII, per totum.

 1141 De Trinitate, XV, n. 36: “Ita enim datur sicut donum Dei, ut
      etiam seipsum det sicut Deus.”

 1142 Serm., 144, c. 1: “Gratia quippe Dei donum Dei est; donum autem
      maximum ipse Spiritus Sanctus est, et ideo gratia dicitur.”

 1143 Enchiridion, c. 37: “Et utique Spiritus Sanctus Dei donum est,
      quod quidem et ipsum est aequale donanti; et ideo Deus est etiam
      Spiritus Sanctus, Patre Filioque non minor.” Additional Patristic
      texts of like tenor in Petavius, De Trinitate, l. VIII, cap. 4
      sq.: Franzelin, De Deo Trino, thes.

 1144 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, The Divine Trinity, pp. 230 sqq.

 1145 John XIV, 23: “Si quis diligit me, sermonem meum servabit, et Pater
      meus diliget eum, et ad eum veniemus et mansionem (μονήν) apud eum
      faciemus.”

 1146 Ep. 1 ad Serap., n. 30: “Ex his una Trinitatis ἐνέργεια
      ostenditur ... profecto quum Dominus ait: Veniemus ego et Pater,
      simul venit Spiritus, non alio modo quam ut Filius in nobis
      habitaturus.”

 1147 De Trinit., XV, 18, 32: “Dilectio igitur, quae ex Deo est et Deus
      est, proprie Spiritus S. est, per quem diffunditur in cordibus
      nostris Dei caritas, per quam nos tota inhabitat Trinitas.”

 1148 For a more detailed treatment see Franzelin, De Deo Trino, thes.
      43-48, Rome 1881.

 1149 Cfr. Pseudo-Dionys. Areop., De Hier. Eccl., 1, § 3 (Migne, P.
      G., III, 376): Ἡ δὲ θέωσις ἐστιν ἡ πρὸς Θεὸν ἀφομοίωσίς τε καὶ
      ἕνωσις.

 1150 Cfr. Petavius, De Trinit., VIII, 7, 12: “Ostendimus enim non
      semel, coniunctionem illam Spiritus S. neque φυσικήν neque
      ὑποστατικήν esse, h. e. neque naturalem neque personalem, quasi una
      fiat ex ambobus natura vel persona. Non enim quia et illi per
      adoptionis gratiam filii Dei sunt, ait Augustinus (In Ps. 67), ideo
      quisquam illorum est unigenitus. Neque enim ex personarum duarum
      copulatione unum aliquid per sese, sed κατα συμβεβηκός potest
      effici.”

 1151 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, The Divine Trinity, pp. 244 sqq.

 1152 Cfr. Scheeben, Die Mysterien des Christentums, 2nd ed., p. 165,
      Freiburg 1898.

 1153 Cfr. John XIV, 23; XVII, 20 sqq.

 1154 Gutberlet takes middle ground between the two theories and tries to
      reconcile them. Cfr. Heinrich-Gutberlet, Dogmatische Theologie,
      Vol. VIII, § 468.

 1155 Cfr. R. F. Clarke, S. J., Logic, p. 174.

 1156 “Fides fiducialis,” v. supra, pp. 255 sqq.

 1157 Sess. VI, cap. 9; Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 684.

 1158 Sess. VI, can. 13-15; Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 823 sqq.

 1159 1 Cor. IV, 4: “Nihil enim mihi conscius sum, sed non in hoc
      iustificatus sum; qui autem iudicat me, Dominus est.”

 1160 1 Cor. IX, 27: “Castigo corpus meum et in servitutem redigo, ne
      forte, quum aliis praedicaverim, ipse reprobus (ἀδόκιμος)
      efficiar.”

 1161 Phil. II, 12: “Cum metu et tremore vestram salutem operamini.”
      Other Scriptural texts in Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, III, 4
      sqq. For the solution of certain exegetical difficulties see the
      same author, op. cit., III, 9, and Tepe, Instit. Theol., Vol.
      III, pp. 210 sqq., Paris 1896.

 1162 Hom. in I. Epist. ad Cor., 2.

 1163 Eccles. IX, 1 sq.: “Nescit homo, utrum amore an odio dignus, etc.”

 1164 Hieronymus in h. l. (Migne, P. L., XXIII, 1080): “In futuro
      igitur scient omnia et in vultu eorum sunt omnia, i.e. antecedet
      eos, quum de hac vita decesserint, notitia istius rei quia tunc est
      iudicum et nunc certamen. Et quicunque adversa sustinent, utrum per
      amorem Dei sustineant, ut Iob, an per odium, ut plurimi peccatores,
      nunc habetur incertum.”

 1165 Ep., VII, 25: “Rem et inutilem et difficilem postulasti:
      difficilem quidem, quia ego indignus sum, cui revelatio fieri
      debeat; inutilem vero, quia secura de peccatis tuis fieri non debes,
      nisi quum iam in die vitae tuae ultimo plangere eadem peccata minime
      valebis.” The Patristic argument is more fully developed by
      Bellarmine, De Iustif., III, 7.

 1166 Dogmengeschichte, Vol. III, p. 617.

 1167 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 9: “Sicut nemo pius de Dei
      misericordia, de Christi merito deque sacramentorum efficacia
      dubitare debet, sic quilibet, dum seipsum suamque propriam
      infirmitatem et indispositionem respicit, de sua gratia formidare et
      timere potest, quum nullus scire valeat certitudine fidei, cui non
      potest subesse falsum, se gratiam Dei esse consecutum.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 802.)

 1168 “Peirorem sequitur semper conclusio partem.” Cfr. Clarke, Logic,
      p. 322.

 1169 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, can. 16: “Si quis magnum illud
      usque in finem perseverantiae donum se certo habiturum absolutâ et
      infallibili certitudine dixerit, nisi hoc speciali revelatione
      didicerit, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 826.)

 1170 In his little treatise De Certitudine Gratiae.

 1171 Sess. VI, cap. 9: “... iustificatos absque ulla dubitatione apud
      semetipsos statuere, se esse iustificatos.”

 1172 Rom. VIII, 38 sq.: “Certus sum enim (πέπεισμαι=persuasum habeo),
      quia neque mors neque vita ... poterit nos separare a caritate Dei,
      quae est in Christo Iesu.”

 1173 Tract. in Ioa., I, 3, 5, n. 10: “Quid nos scimus? Quia
      transivimus de morte ad vitam. Unde scimus? Quia diligimus fratres.
      Nemo interroget hominem, redeat unusquisque ad cor suum; si ibi
      invenerit caritatem fraternam, securus sit, quia transiit a morte ad
      vitam.”

 1174 Cfr. the Imitation of Christ by Thomas à Kempis, III, 54 sqq. On
      the whole subject of this subdivision the student may profitably
      consult the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas, 1a 2ae, qu. 112, art.
      5; Suarez, De Gratia, IX, 9-11, and Billuart, De Gratia, diss.
      6, art. 4.

 1175 Serm. de Nativitate Mariae: “Omnes Christiani aeque magni sumus
      sicut mater Dei, et aeque sancti sicut ipsa.”

 1176 Sess. VI, cap. 7: “Iustitiam in nobis recipientes, unusquisque suam
      secundum mensuram, quam Spiritus Sanctus partitur singulis prout
      vult, et secundum propriam cuiusque dispositionem et
      cooperationem.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 799.)

 1177 Sess. VI, cap. 10: “Iustificati ... in ipsa iustitia per Christi
      gratiam accepta, cooperante fide bonis operibus crescunt atque magis
      iustificantur.”  (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 803.)

 1178 Sess. VI, can. 24: “Si quis dixerit, iustitiam acceptam non
      conservari atque etiam augeri coram Deo per bona opera, sed opera
      ipsa fructus solummodo et signa esse iustificationis adeptae, non
      autem ipsius augendae causam, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart,
      n. 834.)

 1179 Prov. IV, 18: “Iustorum autem semita quasi lux splendens procedit
      et crescit usque ad perfectam diem.”

 1180 Ecclus. XVIII, 22: “Non impediaris orare semper et ne verearis
      usque ad mortem iustificari, quoniam merces Dei manet in aeternum.”

 1181 2 Pet. III, 18: “Crescite vero in gratia et in cognitione Domini
      nostri et Salvatoris Iesu Christi.”

 1182 2 Cor. IX, 10: “[Deus] augebit incrementa frugum iustitiae
      vestrae.”

 1183 Eph. IV, 7: “Unicuique autem nostrum data est gratia secundum
      mensuram donationis Christi.”

 1184 Apoc. Ecce venio cito et merces mea mecum est,
      reddere unicuique secundum opera sua.” Cfr. Bellarmine, De
      Iustific., III, 16.

 1185 Contra Iovin., II, n. 23: “Unicuique nostrum data est gratia
      iuxta mensuram gratiae (Eph. 4, 7); non quod mensura Christi diversa
      sit, sed tantum gratiae eius infunditur, quantum valemus haurire.”

 1186 Ep., 167, n. 13: “Induti sunt sancti iustitiâ (Job 29, 14), alius
      magis, alius minus; et nemo hic vivit sine peccato et hoc alius
      magis, alius minus: optimus autem est qui minimum.”

 1187 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 112, art. 4, ad 3: “Vita naturalis
      pertinet ad substantiam hominis, et ideo non recipit magis et minus;
      sed vitam gratiae participat homo accidentaliter, et ideo eam potest
      homo magis vel minus habere.” On the teaching of Tradition cfr.
      Alb. a Bulsano, Instit. Theol. Dogmat., ed. G. a Graun, O. Cap.,
      Vol. II, p. 254, Innsbruck 1894.

 1188 Ecclus. XVIII, 22; Apoc. XXII, 11.

 1189 Cfr. Vasquez, Comment. in Summam Theol., 1a 2ae, disp. 221, cap.
      9, n. 77.

 1190 Ecclus. XIX, 1: “Qui spernit modica, paulatim decidet.” For a
      fuller treatment of this subject we refer the student to St. Thomas,
      Summa Theol., 2a 2ae, qu. 24, art. 10.

 1191 V. supra, pp. 328 sqq.

 1192 Cfr. Suarez, Disp. Metaph., l. II, disp. 16.

 1193 The authority of St. Thomas himself can be invoked by neither party
      to this controversy. Cfr. Sylvius, Comment. in S. Theol., 2a 2ae,
      qu. 24, art. 3.

 1194 For a fuller treatment of this topic see Tepe, Instit. Theol.,
      Vol. III, pp. 217 sqq.

 1195 V. supra, pp. 336 sqq.

 1196 Suarez, De Gratia, IX, 2, 13.

 1197 Suarez, op. cit., IX, 4, 15.

 1198 Sess. VI, cap. 10: “Hoc vero iustitiae incrementum petit sancta
      Ecclesia, quum orat: Da nobis, Domine, fidei, spei et caritatis
      augmentum.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 803). Cfr. De Lugo, De Fide,
      disp. 16, sect. 2. 7.

 1200 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Christology, pp. 231 sqq.

 1201 Cfr. Pohle-Preuss, Mariology, pp. 24 sqq.

 1202 For a more elaborate treatment the reader is referred to Suarez, De
      Gratia, IX, 6, 11, and Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 570 sq.,
      Freiburg 1901. VI, can. 27: “Si quis dixerit, nullum esse mortale peccatum
      nisi infidelitatis, aut nullo alio quantumvis gravi et enormi
      praeterquam infidelitatis peccato semel acceptam gratiam amitti,
      anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 837).

 1205 Sess. VI, cap. XVIII, 24: “Si autem averterit se iustus a iustitia sua, et
      fecerit iniquitatem secundum omnes abominationes, quas operari solet
      impius, numquid vivet? Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 15
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 808). II: “Propterea scribo vobis, filioli mei, omnis
      qui natus est ex Deo, non peccat, ut non peccetis et tamdiu sciatis
      vos in generatione Domini permanere, quamdiu non peccaveritis.” On
      the different interpretations of 1 John III, 9, an admittedly
      difficult text, see Bellarmine, De Iustific., III, 15.

 1212 De Corrept. et Gratia, c. VI, n. 9: “Si iam regeneratus et
      iustificatus in malam vitam suâ voluntate relabitur, certe iste non
      potest dicere: Non accepti, quia acceptam gratiam Dei suo in malum
      libero amisit arbitrio.”

 1213 Hom. in Ez., 9, 1: “Sicuti qui a fide recedit, apostata est, ita
      qui ad perversum opus, quod deseruerit, redit, ab omnipotente Deo
      apostata deputatur, etiamsi fidem tenere videatur; unum enim sine
      altero nil prodesse valet, quia nec fides sine operibus nec opera
      adiuvant sine fide.”

 1214 For the solution of certain difficulties see Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 591 sqq. On the penitential discipline of the early
      Church cfr. G. Rauschen, Eucharist and Penance in the First Six
      Centuries, pp. 152 sqq., St. Louis 1913.

 1215 Cfr. Conc. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 15: “Non modo infidelitate,
      per quam et ipsa fides amittitur, sed etiam quocunque alio mortali
      peccato, quamvis non amittatur fides, acceptam iustificationis
      gratiam amitti.”

 1217 Cfr. Prop. Quesnelli damn. a Clemente XI, prop. 57: “Totum deest
      peccatori, quando ei deest spes, et non est spes in Deo, ubi non est
      amor Dei.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1407.)

 1218 V. supra, Section 2.

 1219 The questions discussed in this subdivision of our treatise are more
      fully treated by Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 128, sect.
      4, and by Suarez, De Gratia, IX, 3 sqq.

 1220 Sess. VI, cap. 16.

 1221 V. supra, p. 131.

 1222 V. supra, pp. 132 sqq.

 1223 Realitas sive existentia meriti.

 1224 Conditiones meriti.

 1225 Obiecta meriti.

 1226 Cfr. Conc. Viennense, A. D. 1311 (Clementin., l. V, tit. 3: “De
      Haereticis”) in Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 471 sqq.

 1227 “In omni opere bono iustus peccat.” Prop. Lutheri Damnatae A. D.
      1520 a Leone X, prop. 31 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 771).

 1228 “Opus bonum, optime factum est veniale peccatum.” Prop. 32, l.
      c., n. 772.

 1229 “Omne opus iusti damnabile est et peccatum mortale, si iudicio Dei
      iudicetur.”

 1230 “Inquinamenta et sordes.” Instit., III, 12, 4.

 1231 Quietism (Michael de Molinos et al.) denied the meritoriousness of
      good works performed in the “state of passive repose” (quies). 18 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 191.)

 1233 Cap. Firmiter: “Non solum autem virgines et continentes, verum
      etiam coniugati per rectam fidem et operationem bonam placentes Deo
      ad aeternam merentur beatitudinem pervenire.” (Denzinger-Bannwart,
      n. 430.)

 1234 Sess. VI, cap. 16: “Atque ideo bene operantibus usque in finem et
      in Deo sperantibus proponenda est vita aeterna et tamquam gratia
      filiis Dei per Christum Iesum misericorditer promissa et tamquam
      merces ex ipsius Dei promissione bonis ipsorum operibus et meritis
      fideliter reddenda.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 809.)

 1235 Sess. VI, can. 25: “Si quis in quolibet bono opere iustum saltem
      venialiter peccare dixerit, aut quod intolerabilius est, mortaliter
      atque ideo poenas aeternas mereri, tantumque ob id non damnari quia
      Deus ea opera non imputat ad damnationem, anathema sit.”
      (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 835.)

 1236 Sess. VI, can. 26: “Si quis dixerit, iustos non debere pro bonis
      operibus, quae in Deo fuerint facta, exspectare et sperare aeternam
      retributionem a Deo per eius misericordiam et Iesu Christi meritum,
      si bene agendo et divina mandata custodiendo usque in finem
      perseveraverint, anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 836.)

 1237 Sess. VI, can. 32: “Si quis dixerit, ... ipsum iustificatum bonis
      operibus, quae ab eo per Dei gratiam et Iesu Christi meritum, cuius
      vivum membrum est, fiunt, non vere mereri augmentum gratiae, ...
      anathema sit.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 842.)

 1238 Cfr. Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1221 sqq.

 1239 Wisd. V, 16: “Iusti autem in perpetuum vivent et apud Dominum est
      merces eorum.”

 1240 Ecclus. Gen. XV, 1.

 1241 Matth. V, 12: “Gaudete et exultate, quoniam merces vestra copiosa
      est in caelis.”

 1242 Rom. 1 Cor. IX, 25.

 1244 1 Cor. III, 8: “Unusquisque autem propriam mercedem accipiet,
      secundum suum laborem.”

 1245 Col. III, 23 sq.: “Quodcunque facitis, ex animo operamini sicut
      Domino et non hominibus, scientes quod a Domino accipietis
      retributionem haereditatis.”

 1246 Iac. I, 12: “Beatus vir, qui suffert tentationem, quoniam, quum
      probatus fuerit, accipiet coronam vitae, quam repromisit Deus
      diligentibus se.”

 1247 Apoc. II, 10: “Esto fidelis usque ad mortem, et dabo tibi coronam
      vitae.” For additional Scripture texts see Bellarmine, De
      Iustificatione, V, 3, 5.

 1248 Ep. ad Rom., IV, 1.

 1249 Adv. Haer., IV, 37.

 1250 De Offic., I, 15, 57: “Nonne evidens est, meritorum aut praemia
      aut supplicia post mortem manere?”

 1251 De Moribus Ecclesiae, I, 25: “Vita aeterna est totum praemium,
      cuius promissione gaudemus, nec praemium potest praecedere merita
      priusque homini dari, quam dignus est. Quid enim hoc iniustius et
      quid iustius Deo? Non ergo debemus poscere praemia, antequam
      mereamur accipere.”

 1252 Ep. ad Sixt., 194, n. 20: “Sicut merito peccati tamquam
      stipendium redditur mors, ita merito iustitiae tamquam stipendium
      vita aeterna.... Unde etiam et merces appellatur plurimis s.
      Scripturarum locis.” Other Patristic texts inculcating the
      meritoriousness of good works performed in the state of grace can be
      found in Bellarmine, De Iustif., V, 4, 6. For the solution of
      objections raised against the Patristic argument consult Schiffini,
      De Gratia Divina, pp. 609 sqq. 21, art. 4.

 1254 Cfr. Prop. Baii damn, a Pio V, 13 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 1013):
      “Opera bona a filiis adoptionis facta non accipiunt rationem meriti
      ex eo, quod fiunt per Spiritum adoptionis inhabitantem corda
      filiorum Dei, sed tantum ex eo, quod sunt conformia legi quodque per
      ea praestatur obedientia legi.”

 1255 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. Florent., A. D. 1439, (apud Denzinger-Bannwart, n. 693):
      “... et intueri clare ipsum Deum trinum et unum, sicuti est, pro
      meritorum tamen diversitate alium alio perfectius.”

 1257 V. supra, pp. 356 sqq.

 1258 Conc. Trident., Sess. XIV, cap. 8: “Ita non habet homo, unde
      glorietur, sed omnis gloriatio nostra in Christo est, in quo
      vivimus, in quo movemur, in quo satisfacimus facientes fructus
      dignos poenitentiae, qui ex illo vim habent, ab illo offeruntur
      Patri et per illum acceptantur a Patre.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      904.)

 1259 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, can. 33: “Si quis dixerit, per
      hanc doctrinam catholicam de iustificatione, a s. Synodo hoc
      praesenti decreto expressam, aliquâ ex parte gloriae Dei vel meritis
      Iesu Christi D. N. derogari, et non potius veritatem fidei nostrae,
      Dei denique ac Christi Iesu gloriam illustrari, anathema sit.”

 1260 Cfr. Bellarmine, De Iustificatione, V, 7. See also the article on
      “Merit” in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. X.

 1261 Sess. VI, cap. 16: “vere promeruisse;” Sess. VI, can. 32: “vere
      mereri.”

 1262 Hist. Conc. Trident., VIII, 4.

 1263 “Operibus post acceptam iustificationem peractis adeoque divinâ
      gratiâ informatis redditisque ob merita Christi potentioribus, cuius
      vivum membrum est is qui ea peragit, omnes concedebant rationem
      meriti condigni ad conservandam augendamque eandem gratiam
      aeternaeque felicitatis consequendam.” (Pallavicini, l.c.)

 1264 V. infra, Sect. 2.

 1265 Heb. VI, 10: “Non enim iniustus est Deus, ut obliviscatur operis
      vestri.”

 1266 2 Tim. IV, 8: “... reposita est mihi,” etc. See note 24, supra,
      p. 403.

 1267 Iac. I, 12: “Beatus vir, qui suffert tentationem,” etc. V.
      supra, note 27, p. 403.

 1268 Wisd. III, 5: “Deus tentavit eos et invenit illos dignos se.”

 1269 2 Thess. I, 4 sq.: “In omnibus persecutionibus vestris et
      tribulationibus, quas sustinetis in exemplum iusti iudicii Dei, ut
      digni habeamini in regno Dei, pro quo et patimini.”

 1270 Apoc. III, 4: “Ambulabunt mecum in albis, quia digni sunt.”

 1271 Matth.

 1273 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 114, art. 3, ad 3: “Gratia Spiritus S.,
      quam in praesenti habemus, etsi non sit aequalis gloriae in actu,
      est tamen aequalis in virtute, sicut semen arboris, in quo est
      virtus ad totam arborem. Et similiter per gratiam inhabitat hominem
      Spiritus S., qui est sufficiens causa vitae aeternae, unde et
      dicitur esse pignus hæreditatis nostrae.”

 1274 Summa Theol., 1a, qu. 21, art. 4, ad 1.

 1275 Luke VI, 38: “Date, et dabitur vobis: mensuram bonam, et confectam,
      et coagitatam, et supereffluentem dabunt in sinum vestrum.” Cfr.
      Prop. Baii damn. A. D. 1567 a Pio V, 14 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1014): “Opera bona iustorum non accipient in die iudicii extremi
      mercedem ampliorem, quam iusto Dei iudicio mereantur accipere.” For
      further information on this topic consult Bellarmine, De
      Iustificatione, V, 19; De Lugo, De Poenitentia, disp. 24, n. 10.
      The Thomistic axiom, “Deus punit citra condignum et remunerat ultra
      condignum” and Baius’ condemned proposition are interpreted
      somewhat differently than we have explained them by Suarez, De
      Gratia, XII, 31, 14. On the general argument of this Section the
      student may profitably consult St. Bonaventure, Breviloquium, P.
      V, § 12; Billuart, De Gratia, diss. 8, art. 3; Tepe, Instit.
      Theol., Vol.

 1276 Eph. Suarez, De Gratia, X, 2, 5 sqq. II, n. 3: “Ubi necessitas est, nec corona nec
      damnatio est.”

 1284 For a more extensive treatment of this and allied questions consult
      Ripalda, De Ente Supernaturali, disp. 74, sect. 3; De Lugo, De
      Incarnatione, disp. 26, sect. 10, n. 126 sq.

 1285 V. supra, pp. 82 sqq.

 1286 Especially Bañez (Comment. in S. Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 24, art. 6,
      dub. 6). This view is also taken by the so-called Augustinians.

 1287 Notably Billuart; see his treatise De Gratia, diss. 8, art. 4.

 1288 De Iustificatione, V, 15: “Non sufficere, si quis ad initium anni
      vel mensis vel etiam diei generali quadam intentione referat omnia
      sua futura opera in Deum, sed necesse esse ut illud ipsum opus
      particulare referatur in Deum, quod postea faciendum est.”

 1289 Summa Theologica, 1a 2ae, qu. 114, art. 4: “Et ideo meritum vitae
      aeternae primo pertinet ad caritatem, ad alias autem virtutes
      secundario, secundum quod earum actus a caritate imperantur.” And
      again, l.c., ad 3: “Similiter etiam actus patientiae et
      fortitudinis non est meritorius, nisi aliquis ex caritate haec
      operetur.” On the true sense of these passages cfr. Schiffini, De
      Gratia Divina, pp. 647 sqq.

 1290 Cfr. Prop. damn. ab Innocentio XI, prop. 6 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      1156): “Probabile est, ne singulis quidem rigorose quinquenniis per
      se obligare praeceptum caritatis erga Deum.”

 1291 Cfr. J. Ernst, Die Notwendigkeit der guten Meinung. Untersuchungen
      über die Gottesliebe als Prinzip der Sittlichkeit und
      Verdienstlichkeit, Freiburg 1905.

 1292 De Gratia, IX, 3.

 1293 Comment. in S. Theol., 1a 2ae, disp. 220.

 1294 Concilium Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 16: “Haec est enim illa corona
      iustitiae, quam post suum certamen et cursum repositam sibi esse
      aiebat Apostolus a iusto iudice sibi reddendam, non solum autem
      sibi, sed et omnibus qui diligunt adventum eius. VI, can. 26,
      32] sunt facta, divinae legi pro huius vitae statu satisfecisse et
      vitam aeternam suo etiam tempore, si tamen in gratia decesserint,
      consequendam vere promeruisse censeantur.” (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      809.)

 1295 Cfr. Matth. V, 2 sqq.

 1296 Matth. Matth. XIX, 18 sqq.

 1299 The Scriptural argument is more fully developed by Tepe, Inst.
      Theol., Vol. III, pp. 233 sqq.

 1300 V. supra, pp. 73 sqq.

 1301 On a similar controversy regarding the necessity of the motive of
      faith, see Pesch, Praelect. Dogmat., Vol. III, 3rd ed., pp. 225
      sqq., and Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 649 sqq.

 1302 The Scriptural proof for this proposition will be found in the
      dogmatic treatise on Eschatology. On the absurdity of the
      semi-Pelagian hypothesis of merita sub conditione futura see
      Pohle-Preuss, God: His Knowability, Essence, and Attributes, pp.
      375 sq.

 1303 Cfr. Prop. Baii damn. 1567 a Pio V, prop. 6, cap. 4.

 1307 Suarez (De Gratia, XII, 22), Ripalda (De Ente Supernaturali,
      disp. 81), De Lugo (De Incarnatione, disp. 6, sect. 2, n. 37).

 1308 Comment. in Sent., II, dist. 29, qu. 1, art. 4.

 1309 Cfr. Job XLII, 8; Dan. III, 35.

 1310 Cfr. Scotus, Comment. in Sent., I, dist. 17, qu. 2. VIII, 18: “Non sunt condignae passiones huius temporis ad
      futuram gloriam.”

 1313 De Perfect. Divin., XIII, 2.

 1314 Comment. in S. Theol., 1a 2ae, disp. 214, 223.

 1315 De Incarnatione, disp. 3, sect. I, 12: “Accipiet coronam vitae [St. Paul says: ὁ τῆς
      δικαιοσύνης στέφανος], quam repromisit (ἐπηγγείλατο) Deus
      diligentibus se.”

 1318 Serm., 158, c. 2, n. 2: “Debitor factus est Deus non aliquid a
      nobis accipiendo, sed quod ei placuit promittendo. Aliter enim
      dicimus homini: Debes mihi, quia dedi tibi; et aliter dicimus: Debes
      mihi, quia promisisti mihi. Deo autem nunquam dicimus: Redde mihi,
      quia dedi tibi. Quid dedimus Deo, quando totum quod sumus et quod
      habemus boni, ab illo habemus? Nihil ergo ei dedimus.... Illo ergo
      modo possumus exigere Dominum nostrum ut dicamus: Redde, quod
      promisisti, quia fecimus quod iussisti, et hoc tu fecisti, quia
      laborantes iuvisti.”

 1319 Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 416 sqq.

 1320 Sess. VI, can. 32: “Si quis dixerit, iustificatum bonis operibus
      ... non vere mereri augmentum gratiae, vitam aeternam et ipsius
      vitae aeternae, si tamen in gratia decesserit, consecutionem atque
      etiam gloriae augmentum, anathema sit.”

 1321 See the article on “Merit” in the Catholic Encyclopedia.

 1322 V. supra, Ch. II, Sect. 3, Thesis II.

 1323 Sess. VI, cap. 8: “Gratis autem iustificari ideo dicimur, quia
      nihil eorum quae iustificationem praecedunt, sive fides, sive opera,
      ipsam iustificationis gratiam promeretur; si enim gratia est, iam
      non ex operibus, alioquin, ut idem Apostolus inquit, gratia iam non
      est gratia.”

 1324 V. supra, Sect. 2, No. 2.

 1325 De Natura et Gratia, c. 4, n. 4: “Haec Christi gratia, sine quâ
      nec infantes nec aetate grandes salvi fieri possunt, non meritis
      redditur, sed gratis datur, propter quod et gratia nominatur.
      Iustificati, inquit (Rom. III, 24; V, 4), gratis per sanguinem
      ipsius.”

 1326 Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 6; Sess. VI, cap. 3; Sess.
      XIV, cap. 4; supra, pp. 286 sqq.

 1327 For a more exhaustive treatment of this topic consult Tepe, Instit.
      Theol., Vol. III, pp. 158 sqq.

 1328 See, for example, Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 26: “De auxiliis
      sufficientibus et necessariis, quae post aliquod meritum de condigno
      augmenti gratiae dantur, vel offeruntur, probabile est concomitanter
      cadere sub idem meritum de condigno augmenti gratiae; nam qui
      meretur de condigno aliquam formam, meretur quidquid connaturaliter
      sequitur ex tali forma vel ei connaturaliter debetur.” On the
      actual distribution of sufficient grace, v. supra, pp. 167 sqq.

 1329 V. supra, pp. 392 sqq.

 1330 For a fuller treatment cfr. Tepe, Inst. Theol., Vol.

 1331 V. supra, Sect. 1.

 1332 Sess. VI, cap. 16; v. supra, pp. 400 sq.

 1333 Sess. VI, can. 32.

 1334 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 29: “Dicendum vitam aeternam et
      vitae aeternae consecutionem non esse duo praemia distincta, quia
      mereri mercedem et solutionem mercedis non sunt duae mercedes.”

 1335 On the reviviscentia meritorum see the treatise on the Sacrament
      of Penance, Vol. X of this series; cfr. also Schiffini, De Gratia
      Divina, pp. 661 sqq.

 1336 E.g. Ripalda (De Ente Supernat., disp. 89, sect. 1) and De Lugo
      (De Incarnatione, disp. 3, n. 59).

 1337 V. supra, Sect. 2, No. 2.

 1338 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 28, and Vasquez, Comment. in S.
      Theol., 1a 2ae, disp. 219, c. 2. 122, art. 2, ad 1:
      “Praeparatio hominis ad gratiam habendam quaedam est simul cum ipsa
      infusione gratiae; et talis operatio est quidem meritoria, sed non
      gratiae quae iam habetur, sed gloriae quae nondum habetur.”

 1341 Cfr. Tepe, Instit. Theol., Vol. III, pp. 266 sqq.

 1342 Matth. 114, art. 8.

 1346 De Praed. Sanctorum, c. 2.

 1347 V. supra, Sect. 2.

 1348 Prominent among the dissenters is Billuart (De Gratia, diss. 8,
      art. 5).

 1349 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 114, art. 6, ad 2: “Impetratio
      orationis innititur misericordiae, meritum autem condigni innititur
      iustitiae. Et ideo multa orando impetrat homo ex divina
      misericordia, quae tamen non meretur secundum iustitiam.”

 1350 Ps. L, 19: “Cor contritum et humiliatum Deus non despicies.”

 1351 Dan. IV, 24: “Peccata tua eleemosynis redime et iniquitates tuas
      misericordiis pauperum; forsitan ignoscet delictis tuis.”

 1352 Ep. ad Sixt., 194, c. 3, n. 9: “Sed nec ipsa remissio peccatorum
      sine aliquo merito est, si fides hanc impetret. Neque enim nullum
      est meritum fidei, quâ fide ille dicebat: Deus propitius esto mihi
      peccatori, et descendit iustificatus merito fidelis humilitatis.”
      Cfr. Conc. Trident., Sess. VI, cap. 7 (Denzinger-Bannwart, n.
      799): “Hanc dispositionem seu praeparationem iustificatio ipsa
      consequitur.” For a fuller treatment cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, XII,
      37.

 1353 V. supra, pp. 123 sqq. The student may also consult Tepe, Instit.
      Theol., Vol. III, pp. 258 sqq., and Bellarmine, De Iustific., V,
      22.

 1354 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 114, art. 7: “Respondeo dicendum quod
      nullus potest sibi mereri reparationem post lapsum futurum neque
      merito condigni neque merito congrui.”

 1355 Lect. in Hebr., III, 6, 10: “Duplex est meritum. Unum quod
      innititur iustitiae et istud est meritum condigni; aliud quod soli
      misericordiae innititur, quod dicitur meritum congrui. Et de isto
      dicit [Paulus], quod iustum est, i.e. congruum, quod homo, qui multa
      bona fecit, mereatur.... Et isto modo non obliviscitur Deus operis
      nostri et dilectionis.”

 1356 Comment. in Sent., IV, dist. 2, qu. 1, art. 2.

 1357 Comment. in Sent., II, dist. 28, dub. 2.

 1358 De Gratia, XII, 38, 6.

 1359 2 Paral. XIX, 2 sq.: “Impio praebes auxilium et his, qui oderunt
      Dominum, amicitiâ iungeris et idcirco iram quidem Domini merebaris;
      sed bona opera inventa sunt in te.”

 1360 Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 38, 7: “Possunt enim praecedentia merita
      esse tam pauca et tot peccata postea multiplicata, ut omnino obruant
      merita et efficiant, ut nullo modo Deum ad misericordiam provocent;
      secus vero erit, si e contrario merita magna fuerint et peccatum
      subsequens et rarum sit et excusationem aliquam ex ignorantia vel
      infirmitate habeat.”

 1361 Ps. Schiffini, De Gratia Divina, pp. 687 sq.

 1363 V. supra, pp. 136 sqq. V, 16: “Orate pro invicem, ut salvemini; multum enim valet
      deprecatio iusti assidua.”

 1366 E.g. Abraham, Job, St. Stephen.

 1367 E.g. St. Augustine and his mother St. Monica.

 1368 Cfr. Suarez, De Gratia, XII, 38, 21.

 1369 Summa Theol., 1a 2ae, qu. 114, art. 10: “Dicendum est quod, si
      temporalia bona considerentur, prout sunt utilia ad opera virtutum,
      quibus perducimur in vitam aeternam, secundum hoc directe et
      simpliciter cadunt sub merito, sicut et augmentum gratiae et omnia
      illa, quibus homo adiuvatur ad perveniendum in beatitudinem post
      primam gratiam.... Si autem considerentur huiusmodi temporalia bona
      secundum se, sic non sunt simpliciter bona hominis, sed secundum
      quid, et ita non simpliciter cadunt sub merito, sed secundum quid,
      inquantum scil. homines moventur a Deo ad aliqua temporaliter
      agenda, quibus suum propositum consequuntur Deo favente.”

 1370 Gen. XV, 1: “Ego ... merces tua magna nimis.”

