ARLINGTON,

By the Author of "Granby,"

Is not the most striking novel of the season. This may by some readers be attributed to the
absence of that dashing caricatura style and constant aiming at antitheses, which, if it relieve
the vapidness of the story, does not add to its natural attractions. Nevertheless, there are
pictures of life and manners in these volumes which have the easy and unconstrained air of
an author who is not writing for mere effect, but for the purpose of "holding the mirror up
to nature," and correcting the follies and vices of the age without attempting to exaggerate them.

We do not attempt to unravel the story of Arlington, but quote a few flying extracts. First is a

Scandal-loving Letter

from Sir Gerald Denbigh to Lady Ulverston, a lady distinguished by a congenial love of tracasserie,
and a congenial idolization of social distinctions; an address which passed for cleverness;
unimpeachable taste in self-adornment; and who was courted by the ball-going part of London
as a dispenser of tickets for Almack's.

"Do you know you are paying us all a very undeserved compliment in being curious about our
proceedings; and I will not turn the head of any one here, by imparting a syllable touching
your inquiries. You ask what the party is composed of--a sign that you don't consume your invaluable
time in spelling newspapers--for Berwick announces the accessions to his menagerie as diligently
as Pidcock. Our last arrivals were those Polar bears, the Rochdales, with their pretty youngest
daughter, who is surprisingly little, chilly and frozen for a creature that has always been
living among icebergs. We are doomed to them for a week, Lord Rochdale having promised to stay
so long; and he is one of those patterns of inconvenient precision, who, having once promised,
will certainly pay the heavy debt of visitation to the uttermost minute. Arlington is here--brought
expressly to play suitor, and looking affectingly conscious of his rôle. Berwick, I believe,
has told him that he shall die of disappointment, or, what is as bad, shut up his house, if
he quits them unaccepted. What an alternative for the poor youth--to be forced to marry at
one-and-twenty, or deprive the world of the fortunate master of the best cook in Christendom.

"There is a strange heterogeneous medley here. Fancy, of all living creatures, the Bolsovers
being brought hither to meet the Rochdales, whom they suit like point ruffles with a shooting-jacket.
Either Berwick has acquired a taste for contrasts, or, in assorting his party, has overlooked
every thing but the prospective match, and drawn the rest of the company by lot. His only other
considerate arrangement is having Charles Theobald here to swain Lady Bolsover, and talk 'Turf'
with her Lord. This is one of Berwick's 'good-natured things.' To do him justice, nobody knows
better how to place chacun avec sa chacune; but it is a pity that in this case it contributes
so little to the general amusement; for really Theobald's intense flirtation with Lady Bolsover,
is the flattest piece of dull indecorum that ever met my virtuous eyes. They are dull, these
people--keep him from quadrupeds, and Theobald is a cipher; and Lady B. has little more than
the few ideas which she gets sent over with her dresses from Paris. I know it is mauvais ton
to cry them down--but I cannot help it. My sincerity will ruin me some fine day.

"The Hartlands are here: he talks parliament, and she talks strong sense, and tells every body
how to do every thing, and seems to say, like Madame de Sevigné's candid Frenchwoman, Il n'y
a que moi qui ai toujours raison. To close the list, we have that good-looking puppy, young
Leighton, an underbred youth, spoiled by premature immersion in a dandy regiment, who goes
about saying the same things to every body, and labouring to reward the inconsiderate benevolence
of you soft-hearted patronesses, by talking as if London lay packed in Willis's rooms, and
nobody existed but on Wednesday nights. Forgive my impertinence; you know how, in my heart,
I revere your oligarchy.

"You will wonder how I amuse myself in the midst of this curious specimen of a social Macedoine--quite
well--and am acquiring a taste for that true epicurean apathy which one enjoys in perfection,
among people whom one expects neither to interest, nor to be interested by; and I sit down
among them as calmly comfortable as I can conceive a growing cabbage to be in wet weather.
I hold my tongue and watch the chaos as gravely as I can, while Berwick labours to make the
jarring elements of his party harmonize, and offends every one in turn by trying to talk to
him in his own way. I observe this generally irritates people; nobody likes to be so well understood.

"I can hardly judge at present, but I don't think Arlington's suit will prosper, and you will
laugh when I tell you why: it is not that the youth is too shy and the maiden too cold; it
is not the officiousness of the Berwicks;--it is because Lord Arlington has some thirty or
forty thousand a-year. He is so rich, and the Rochdales so poor, and so stiffly disinterested
withal; and it is such a mortal sin to think of money in this dirty world, where we cannot
live without it, that they actually discourage him, and make it a point of honour to snub him
daily, to prove their superiority to mercenary considerations. What weak things your strong-minded
people sometimes do! and what horrors arise from acting upon principle! I, who have none, fancy
I sometimes stumble into right by just doing what I please, and letting others do the same.

"Pray be bountiful, and send me some news, true or false--only if the latter, tell me the inventors.
I have had nothing of the kind save a letter from Neville, full of comfortable lies, which
I have already re-told, and now dearth is staring us in the face--not five minutes consumption
in the house--and we are reduced to talk about each other, Berwick excepted, who falls back
upon himself, and tells one again and again the 'very good thing' he said ten years ago. Tell
me something about your intimates--what are their high mightinesses, Ladies Crawford and Cheadle,
now doing for the edification of the world? Has the former forgiven his Majesty of ----? or
is she brouillée with any other potentate! Has the latter made peace with the Cabinet? or are
Ministers still doomed to exclusion from her parties unless they will be good boys, and do
as she bids them? and is she still chattering party gossip, and thinks all the while she is
talking politics? Send me our dear friend's last silly thing; and if you don't know which is
the last, do, pray do, go to her house and gather one.

"I know nothing of Beauchamp but that he is now in Scotland, chin-deep in heather, killing
grouse against time for a bet of some hundreds, which he has persuaded some simpleton to make
with him. No man knows better than Beauchamp how to get paid for amusing himself. I had never
heard, and don't believe, that Beauchamp is going to take a wife. Whatever you know of this,
pray tell me; and say whose wife--not Sir Robert Ridware's, I hope; that would be so illiberal,
and so unnecessary! I hate monopolies; and, moreover, I have always admired, the example of
the poet Thomson, who ate his peaches off the tree. Forgive this pedantry, and any other sins
in my letter; or if you are to scold me, let it be in person. Addio! fair lady. Yours,--not
unalterably, for that is tiresome,--but as long as it pleaseth you.

"G.D."

A pleasant anecdote follows, by Sir James Berwick, "a busy, meddling, vain, good-humoured man,
whose chief ambition it was to be considered thoroughly 'a man of the world,' and 'a good member
of society.'"

