The artillery, the musketry, and the shouting of the combatants, became so deafening, that
even the group of troopers unoccupied in the fight, and in the rear, could scarcely hear each
other's voice. Gray's party mounted their horses now, in order to have a better view of the
battle, and from the situation of the ground on which they were standing, they beheld, in awful
anxiety, rush after rush made against the British infantry, whose duty was evidently that of
firm defence; they beheld wave after wave of blue ranks advance over the rising bosom of the
ground, and saw them successively battered by the rocks they assaulted--the ground covered
with men and horses by the well-directed fire of the squares. The other divisions of the English
army were fast arriving, and taking up ground on the left, in spite of the efforts of the French
to prevent it, and thus divide them from their comrades engaged. A "lull," (as the sailors
say, when the storm pauses a little,) took place, and both armies stood, as it were, looking
at each other. But another and more desperate attack soon followed; the tempest returned with
double violence. The mouths of Ney's numerous cannon opened again; the smoke drifted over on
the English, and under its cover were seen advancing an immense force, for another struggle
with the right of the duke's line, in order to turn it, and possess themselves of the village.
The duke and his staff were in front of the 92nd regiment, and the balls playing on them had
knocked down several of his aides-de-camp. As the foe came near, the artillery ceased, the
close fight began, and several regiments at once poured in their fire: both sides kept their
ground, and hundreds fell at every discharge of musketry. The duke now, in the pithy and familiar
language of the soldier, cried out to the Scots, "Ninety-second, you must charge these fellows."

The word was magic; the kilts rushed against the blaze of the tirailleurs! Their leader and
their officer fell amongst them: but, alas! their blood only enraged the men; fiercely as tigers
they rush, and their bayonets sink into the mass before them. The whole fly before them, while
the victorious Highlanders pursue them almost out of sight of their general. Alas! many of
these heroes fell in their gallant work.

This glorious charge was beheld by Gray and his comrades with delight; their shacos waved over
their heads, and their cries of exultation fully showed what a catching thing is the fever
of the fight. One of the dragoons now turned his eyes to the wood on the right, which the French
had possessed themselves of, and exclaimed, "But look, the guards have come up, and are in
the wood. Where did they come from? I didn't see them before. Hark! how they shout; they are
all amongst the trees."

"Yes, and they'll not soon come back; they'll keep their ground, I'll warrant," cried the corporal.

At this moment the troopers were somewhat disarranged by a part of the earth suddenly flying
upwards in a cloud; it was the effect of a cannon-ball which had struck the ground. They started
a few paces backwards, wiped their faces, and having all passed their jocular sentiments on
the occasion, coolly united again to view and comment on the action.

