PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100. In front a richly-upholstered study.
    (R.) a green-baize door leading to WERLE's office. At back,
    open folding doors, revealing an elegant dining-room, in
    which a brilliant Norwegian dinner-party is going on. Hired
    Waiters in profusion. A glass is tapped with a knife. Shouts
    of "Bravo!" Old Mr. WERLE is heard making a long speech,
    proposing--according to the custom of Norwegian society on
    such occasions--the health of his Housekeeper, Mrs. SÖRBY.
    Presently several short-sighted, flabby, and thin-haired
    Chamberlains, enter from the dining-room, with HIALMAR
    EKDAL, who writhes shyly under their remarks.

A Chamberlain. As we are the sole surviving specimens of Norwegian nobility, suppose we sustain
our reputation as aristocratic sparklers by enlarging upon the enormous amount we have eaten,
and chaffing HIALMAR EKDAL, the friend of our host's son, for being a professional Photographer?

The other Chamberlains. Bravo! We will.

    [They do; delight of HIALMAR. Old WERLE comes in, leaning
    on his Housekeeper's arm, followed by his son, GREGERS
    WERLE.

Old Werle (dejectedly). Thirteen at table! (To GREGERS, with a meaning glance at HIALMAR.)
This is the result of inviting an old College friend who has turned Photographer! Wasting vintage
wines on him, indeed!

    [He passes on gloomily.

Hialmar (to Gregers). I am almost sorry I came. Your old min is not friendly. Yet he set me
up as a Photographer fifteen years ago. Now he takes me down! But for him, I should never have
married GINA, who, you may remember, was a servant in your family once.

Gregers. What? my old College friend married fifteen years ago--and to our GINA, of all people!
If I had not been up at the works all these years, I suppose I should have heard something
of such an event. But my father never mentioned it. Odd!

    [He ponders; Old EKDAL comes out through the green-baize
    door, bowing, and begging pardon, carrying copying work. Old
    WERLE says "Ugh" and "Puh" involuntarily. HIALMAR shrinks
    back, and looks another way. A Chamberlain asks him
    pleasantly if he knows that old man.

Hialmar. I--oh no. Not in the least. No relation!

Gregers (shocked). What, HIALMAR, you, with your great soul, deny your own father!

Hialmar (vehemently). Of course--what else can a Photographer do with a disreputable old parent,
who has been in a Penitentiary for making a fraudulent map? I shall leave this splendid banquet.
The Chamberlains are not kind to me, and I feel the crushing hand of fate on my head! [Goes
out hastily, feeling it.

Mrs. Sörby (archly). Any Nobleman here say "Cold Punch"?

    [Every Nobleman says "Cold Punch," and follows her out in
    search of it with enthusiasm. GREGERS approaches his father,
    who wishes he would go.

Gregers. Father, a word with you in private. I loathe you. I am nothing if not candid. Old
EKDAL was your partner once, and it's my firm belief you deserved a prison quite as much as
he did. However, you surely need not have married our GINA to my old friend HIALMAR. You know
very well she was no better than she should have been!

Old Werle. True--but then no more is Mrs. SÖRBY. And I am going to marry her--if you have no
objection, that is.

Gregers. None in the world! How can I object to a stepmother who is playing Blind Man's Buff
at the present moment with the Norwegian nobility? I am not so overstrained as all that. But
really I cannot allow my old friend HIALMAR, with his great, confiding, childlike mind, to
remain in contented ignorance of GINA's past. No, I see my mission in life at last! I shall
take my hat, and inform him that his home is built upon a lie. He will be so much obliged to
me! [Takes his hat, and goes out.

Old Werle. Ha!--I am a wealthy merchant, of dubious morals, and I am about to marry my housekeeper,
who is on intimate terms with the Norwegian aristocracy. I have a son who loathes me, and who
is either an Ibsenian satire on the Master's own ideals, or else an utterly impossible prig--I
don't know or care which. Altogether, I flatter myself my household affords an accurate and
realistic picture of Scandinavian Society!

ACT II.

    HIALMAR EKDAL's Photographic Studio. Cameras, neck-rests,
    and other instruments of torture lying about. GINA EKDAL and
    HEDWIG, her daughter, aged 14, and wearing spectacles,
    discovered sitting up for HIALMAR.

Hedvig. Grandpapa is in his room with a bottle of brandy and a jug of hot water, doing some
fresh copying work. Father is in society, dining out. He promised he would bring me home something
nice!

Hialmar (coming in, in evening dress). And he has not forgotten his promise, my child. Behold!
(he presents her with the menu card; HEDVIG gulps down her tears; HIALMAR notices her disappointment,
with annoyance.) And this all the gratitude I get! After dining out and coming home in a dress-coat
and boots, which are disgracefully tight! Well, well, just to show you how hurt I am, I won't
have any beer now! What a selfish brute I am! (Relenting.) You may bring me just a little drop.
(He bursts into tears.) I will play you a plaintive Bohemian dance on my flute. (He does.)
No beer at such a sacred moment as this! (He drinks.) Ha, this is real domestic bliss!

    [GREGERS WERLE comes in, in a countrified suit.

Gregers. I have left my father's home--dinner-party and all--for ever. I am coming to lodge
with you.

Hialmar (still melancholy). Have some bread and butter. You won't? then I will. I want it,
after your father's lavish hospitality. (HEDVIG goes to fetch bread and butter.) My daughter--a
poor shortsighted little thing--but mine own.

Gregers. My father has had to take to strong glasses, too--he can hardly see after dinner.
(To Old EKDAL, who stumbles in very drunk.) How can you, Lieutenant EKDAL, who were such a
keen sportsman once, live in this poky little hole?

Old Ekdal. I am a sportsman still. The only difference is that once I shot bears in a forest,
and now I pot tame rabbits in a garret. Quite as amusing--and safer.

    [He goes to sleep on a sofa.

Hialmar (with pride). It is quite true. You shall see.

    [He pushes back sliding doors, and reveals a garret full of
    rabbits and poultry--moonlight effect. HEDVIG returns with
    bread and butter.

Hedvig (to GREGERS). If you stand just there, you get the best view of our Wild Duck. We are
very proud of her, because she gives the play its title, you know, and has to be brought into
the dialogue a good deal. Your father, peppered her out shooting, and we saved her life.

Hialmar. Yes, GREGERS, our estate is not large--but still we preserve, you see. And my poor
old father and I sometimes get a day's gunning in the garret. He shoots with a pistol, which
my illiterate wife here will call a "pigstol." He once, when he got into trouble, pointed it
at himself. But the descendant of two lieutenant-colonels who had never quailed before living
rabbit yet, faltered then. He didn't shoot. Then I put it to my own head. But at the decisive
moment, I won the victory over myself. I remained in life. Now we only shoot rabbits and fowls
with it. After all I am very happy and contented as I am. [He eats some bread and butter.

Gregers. But you ought not to be. You have a good deal of the Wild Duck about you. So have
your wife and daughter. You are living in marsh vapours. To-morrow I will take you out for
a walk and explain what I mean. It is my mission in life. Good night! [He goes out.

Gina and Hedwig. What was the gentleman talking about, Father?

Hialmar (eating bread and butter). He has been dining, you know. No matter--what we have to
do now, is to put my disreputable old whitehaired pariah of a parent to bed.

    [He and GINA lift old ECCLES--we mean old EKDAL--up by the
    legs and arms, and take him off to led as the Curtain falls.

       *       *       *       *       *

COCKNEY MOTTO FOR A FEEBLE CRICKETER.--"Take 'Art of GRACE!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

KEY TO THE PROPOSED HERALDIC DEVICE.

Arms.--Quarterly: 1. A female figure habited in white robes reaching to the ankles, with Arms
elevated, all quite proper, for Grace. 2. A wildman or ratepayer rampant, for Thrift. 3. A
bend (or bar) sinister on a chart vert, for Bloomsbury. 4. Three demi-councillors, wings elevated,
regardant an empty seat, for Vacancy.

Crest.--On a beadle's hat erased, a new broom.

Supporters.--Dexter, a Paul Pry regardant, grasping an eyeglass sinister. Sinister, a Stiggins.
Both gorged.

Motto.--"Ubi nunc sumus?"

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILIARITY BREEDS RESPECT.

(A PAGE FROM THE DIARY OF A WOULD-BE BUT COULDN'T-BE DUELLIST.)

Monday.--Arrived on the ground ready to fight my opponent to the death. We had just measured
the ground, when an agent of Police appeared upon the scene, and we had to decamp hurriedly.
Duel postponed till to-morrow.

Tuesday.--New spot chosen. Pistols this time instead of rapiers. Just as we were about to fire,
appearance of the agents of the law. Postponement again absolutely necessary.

Wednesday.--Once more ready to meet. Both of us rather amused at the precautions we have to
take to prevent interruption. Opponent obligingly suggested a new and suitable spot for the
settlement of our little differences. Found it to be a most excellent selection, but before
we could fight, once more interrupted. Both of us greatly annoyed, and arranged to meet to-morrow.

Thursday.--Amused to find myself first in the field--my opponent five minutes late. Both of
us had come before the seconds, and so spent the time in a pleasant little chat, and cigarettes.
My opponent not half a bad fellow when you come to know him. Just as he was in the middle of
a most amusing story, our seconds arrived--with the Police! Postponement once more imperative.

Friday.--Opponent turned up first, and, at my request, completed his yesterday's story--one
of the best I have ever heard. Most amusing chap--should have liked to have heard another,
when, finding ourselves uninterrupted, we thought we had better seize the opportunity to settle
our affair of honour. Our customary luck! Seemingly had just time to kill one another, when
enter the Police! Programme as before.

Saturday.--Met again. Really quite pleased to have made the acquaintance of such a nice fellow
as my opponent. Full of fun and anecdote. On comparing notes, we found that we had entirely
forgotten what on earth we had quarrelled about. So shook hands and arranged that if we fired
at anyone, our target should be the Police.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLEA FOR THE CART-HORSE PARADE SOCIETY.

  All who love English horses, and back English Trade,
  Should welcome the annual "Cart-Horse Parade."
  No function of Fashion on Racecourse or Row
  Should "fetch" our equestrian enthusiast so.
  First-rate English horses in holiday guise!
  A sight that to please a true Britisher's eyes.
  And then the Society--surely that will be
  Supported by Britons. Ask good WALTER GILBEY
  (Cambridge House, Regent's Park). He will tell you no doubt
  What the C.-H.P.S. have, some time, been about.
  Fancy prizes to Carmen for care of their horses!
  That charms a horse-lover. To plump the resources
  Of such a Society--by their support
  In subscriptions--all friends of the horse and of sport
  Should surely be eager; so, horse-lovers willing,
  Despatch the gold pound plus the odd silver shilling!

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY AND ART.--Doubts have been thrown on the genuineness of the story about St. ELIZABETH
of Hungary as illustrated by Mr. CALDERON's well-known and striking picture in this year's
Academy. Mr. CALDERON affirms, according to the best of his high lights, that he has simply
portrayed the naked truth. So far, in a certain sense, the Court is with him. Still, historians
are neither unbiassed nor infallible, and painters are inclined to sacrifice much for effect.
For our part, we should be inclined to refer the situation, which this picture illustrates,
to some incident in the life of the celebrated Miss ELIZABETH MARTIN, generally known as "BETTY
MARTIN." The legend may be found in some work by that voluminous writer Finis, or by the oft-quoted
Ibid, under the quaint heading, Historia Mei et Beati Martini.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PICK OF THE PICTURES. (AT THE ROYAL ACADEMY.)

No. 278. "The Fleecy Charge." A title that suggests an attempt at extortion, but is here applied
to A picture in wool-work by the veteran, T. SYDNEY COOPER, R.A. Of course whatever the artist
may ask for it, it will always be "sheep at the price."

No. 388. "Writing a Message to St. Helena." Hope St. Helena received it. Probably forwarded
by a winged messenger as suggested by the name of the artist, which is EYRE CROWE, A.

No. 519. "Gorse." By DAVID MURRAY. Good? Why certainly, as a matter of gorse.

No. 697. Rather mixed subject, being "Eventide" by KNIGHT.

No. 1161. "A Maiden Fair." By G.A. STOREY, A. Never heard of such a thing as "a Maiden Fair,"
except in Oriental countries. She seems to be having all the fun of the Fair to herself. This
concludes a series of Storeys in four numbers, 356, 704, 1043 and 1161, making up his "Tale."
"And now my STOREY's done," that is, for this Season.

SCULPTURE.

No. 1962. "Triumph" of ADRIAN JONES. It is so. Quite a triumph. The SMITHS, BROWNS and ROBINSONS
nowhere compared with A. JONES.

No. 2001. "H.M. Stanley--bust." Is he? Poor STANLEY! It is to be hoped that the EMIN-ent explorer
will forgive the sculptor, who is C.B. BIRCH, A. Fancy the indomitable STANLEY never yet beaten,
but BIRCH'd at last!

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. XVIII.--MARIAN MUFFET: A ROMANCE OF BLACKMORE.

(BY R.D. EXMOOR, AUTHOR OF "BORN A SPOON;" "PADDOCK ROWEL;" "WIT AND WITTY;" "TIPS FOR MARRIERS;"
"SCARE A FAWN;" "'BRELLAS FOR RAIN," &C., &C., &C.)

    ["This," writes Mr. EXMOOR, "is another of my simple tales.
    Yet I send it forth into the world thinking that haply there
    may be some, and they not of the baser sort, who reading
    therein as the humour takes them, may draw from it nurture
    for their minds. For truly it is in the nature of fruit-trees,
    whereof, without undue vaunting, I may claim to know somewhat,
    that the birds of the air, the tits, the wrens, ay, even unto
    the saucy little sparrows, whose firm spirit in warfare hath
    ever been one of my chiefest marvels, should gather in the
    branches seeking for provender. So in books, and herein too
    I have some small knowledge, those that are of the ripest
    sort are ever the first to be devoured. And if the public
    be pleased, how shall he that made the book feel aught but
    gratitude. Therefore I let it go, not being blind in truth
    to the faults thereof, but with humble confidence too in much
    compensating merit."]

CHAPTER I.

Fate, that makes sport alike of peasants and of kings, turning the one to honour and a high
seat, and making the other to lie low in the estimation of men, though haply (as 'tis said
in our parish) he think no small beer of himself, hath seemingly ordained that I, THOMAS TIDDLER,
should set down in order some doings wherein I had a share. And herein I make no show of learning,
being but an undoctrined farmer and not skilled in the tricks of style, as the word is in these
parts, but trusting simply to strength and honesty (whereof, God knows, there is but little
beyond the limits of our farm), and to that breezy carriage of the pen which favoureth a plain
man treading sturdily the winding paths and rough places of his native tongue. Notwithstanding
I take no small encouragement from this, that whereas of those that have made to my knowledge
the bravest boasting and the loudest puffing (though of this I am loth to speak, never having
had a stomach for the work), the writings often perish neglectfully and nothing said, some,
writing afar in quiet places removed from the busy rabblement of towns, not seldom steer their
course to fame and riches, whereof, thanks be to Heaven, I never yet had covetousness, deeming
theirs the happier lot to whom a dry crust with haply a slice of our good country cheese and
a draught of the foaming cider bring contentment. Each to his own fashion, say I, and the fashion
of the TIDDLERS hath always been in a manner plain and unvarnished, like to the large oak press
wherein mother stores her Sunday gown and other woman's finery such as the mind of man, being
at best but a coarse week-day creature, hath never fairly conceived. But lo! I am tarrying
on my way, losing myself in a maze of cheap fancies, while the reader perchance yawns and stretches
his limbs as though for bed. All I know is paper and ink are cheaper than when I began to write.

CHAPTER II.

Now it fell on a Summer morning, I being then but newly come home from the Farmers' College,
in the ancient town of Cambridge, that our whole household was gathered together in our parlour.
Mother sat by the head of the great table, ladling out a savoury mess of porridge, not rashly,
as the custom of some is, but carefully, like a prudent housewife, guarding her own. And by
her side sat MOLLY and BETTY, her daughters, and next to them the maids, and they that pertained
to the work of the house. First came old POLLY THISTLEDEW, gaunt of face, and parched of skin,
the wrinkles running athwart her face, and over her hooked nose, like to the rivers drawn with
much labour of meandering pen in the schoolboys' maps, though for such my marks were always
low, I being better skilled in the giving of raps with the closed fist than in the making of
maps with inky fingers--a bootless toil, as it always hath seemed to me. Next to her sat SALLY,
the little milkmaid, casting coy glances at mother, who would have none of them, but with undue
sternness, as I thought then, and still think, tossed them back to the shame-faced SALLY. Lower
down sat JOHN TOOKER, "GIRT JAN DOUBLEFACE" he was ever called, not without a sly hint of increasing
obesity, for JOHN, though a mighty man of thews and sinews, was no small trencherman, and,
as the phrase is, did himself right royally whenever porridge was in question. All these sat,
peaceably swallowing, while I, at the table's foot, faced mother, stirring my steaming bowl
with my forefinger, forgetting the heat thereof, but not daring to wince, lest BETTY, whose
tongue cut shrewdly when she had a mind, should make sport of me.

CHAPTER III.

Although I had, for the most part, so very stout an appetite that my bowl stood always first
for the refilling, I had no desire for my food that day, but idly sat and stirred, and the
burden of my thoughts wore deeply inward with the dwelling of my mind on this view and on that
of it. But, on a sudden, what a turmoil, what a rising of maids, what a jumping on chairs,
what a drawing up of gowns, and what a scurrying! For, out of a corner, comes the great brown
rat, gliding sedately, and never so much as asking by your leave or with your leave. Then mother's
old tom-cat, Trouncer, slowly rising, stretches his limbs, and bares his claws, making ready
for what is to come, but not, me-thinks, with much alacrity for the conflict, for rats have
teeth, as Trouncer knows--ay, and can use them to much purpose. Therefore Trouncer, making
belief to be brave, as is the custom both of cats and of others that walk on two legs, and
have thumbs to their fore-paws, gathers himself to the spring, but springs not. Then comes
GIRT JAN's terrier, Rouser, at last--where hath the terrier been tarrying? Terriers should
not tarry--and, with scant ceremony, leaps upon Trouncer. Cuff, cuff, go the claws. Trouncer
swears roundly. Nay, Trouncer, 'tis a coward's part to fly beneath the chair. To him, good
Rouser, to him, my man. But Rouser hath forgot the claw-bearer, though his bleeding nose for
many a day shall remember. Rouser hath the rat in view. Round the parlour they go, helter-skelter,
Rouser on the tracks of the life-desiring rat, while the maids upon the chairs show ankles,
in proof of terror, until, lo! he hath him pinned fast, never more to stir, or clean his whiskers
in rat-land.

And then all come down, and JAN boasts loudly how he all but trod him flat, ay, and could have
done so had rat not fled in terror of his boot; and Trouncer returns, smugly purring, and mother
rates the blushing maids.

And I to the fields, having work to do, but liking not the doing.

CHAPTER IV.

Now I with Rouser at my heels went manfully on my way. Gaily I went over the parched brown
wastes where lately the flood had lain heavy upon the land, past the whispering copses of fir
and beech and oak that top the upland, through the yellowing corn that stands waving golden
promise in the valley, till I came to where the land bends suddenly with a sharp turn from
the eastward whence a pearly brook, now swollen to a roaring torrent, babbles bravely over
the stones. Sudden I stopped as though a palsy had gripped me, though of the TIDDLERS, as is
well known, none hath ever suffered of a palsy, they being for the most part a lusty race,
and apt for enduring moisture both within and without. Never till my dying day shall I forget
the sight that met my eyes. For there seated upon a tuffet, her beautiful blue eyes fixed in
horror and despair, her jug of curds and whey scarce tasted, was my MARIAN, while beside her,
lolling at ease with the slothful stretch of his great limbs, and the flames as of Tophet in
his fierce eyes sat SPIDER, the great black-haired giant SPIDER that would make a feast of her.

I know not how I ran, nor what mighty strength was in my limbs, but in a moment I was with
them, and his hairy throat was in my clutch. Quickly he turned upon me and fain had freed himself.
Our breast-bones cracked in the conflict, his arms wound round and round me, and a hideous
gleam of triumph was in his face. Thrice he had me off my feet, but at the fourth close I swayed
him to the right, and then with one last heave I flung him on his back, and had the end of
it, leaving him dead and flattened where he lay.

CHAPTER V.

Then gently I bore my MARIAN home, and mother greeted her fondly, saying, "Miss MUFFET, I presume?"
which pleased me, thinking it only right that mother should use ceremony with my love. But
she, poor darling, lay quiet and pale, scarce knowing her own happiness or the issue of the
fight. For 'tis the way of women ever to faint if the occasion serve and a man's arms be there
to prop them. And often in the warm summer-time, when the little lads and lasses gather to
the plucking of buttercups and daisies, likening them gleefully to the gold and silver of a
rich man's coffers, my darling, now grown matronly, sitteth on the tuffet in their midst, and
telleth the tale of giant SPIDER and his fate.--[THE END.]

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

One of our "Co."--and the Baron may observe that, when "Co." is written it is not an abbreviation
of "Coves"--has been reading Sir George (BENTLEY), a Novel, which Mrs. HENNIKER has the courage
to put forth in one volume. At the outset, the writing is a little slipshod. Mrs. HENNIKER
has, moreover, a wild passion for the conjunction. When she can't summon another "which," she
sticks in a "that." On one page appears the following startling announcement--"The March winds
this year were unusually biting, and her nervous guardian would therefore [why therefore?]
never allow her to walk out without a respirator, till they blew no longer from the East."
We assume that, as soon as respirators blew from the West, this injunction would be withdrawn.
But, as Mrs. HENNIKER, gets forward in her story, the style improves, "which's" disappear as
they did in Macbeth's time, and the tale is told in simple strenuous language. Uncle George
is a character finely conceived, and admirably drawn.

The Baron returns thanks to the publisher, W. HEINEMANN, for sending a volume of DE QUINCEY's
Posthumorous Works. A small dose of them, taken occasionally the last thing at night, may be
confidently recommended to admirers of The Opium Eater, and will probably be found of considerable
value to some who hitherto may have been the victims of insomnia. Highly recommended by the
Faculty.

(Signed.) BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVENINGS FROM HOME.

At the Court Theatre, Le Feu Toupinel, adapted for the English stage as The Late Lamented,
is decidedly funny, that is, if you can once get over the idea that all its humour depends
upon the immoral vagaries of an elderly scoundrel, an habitual criminal, who has departed this
life in the odour of respectability, without his immoralities ever having been discovered.
Had he been found out during his lifetime, he would have been tried for bigamy, convicted,
and punished accordingly. This piece has been adapted from the French for the English stage;
but, query, is it adapted to an English audience? That's the point. The run must decide. If
the best possible acting can carry it along, then that it has got; for, though Mrs. JOHN WOOD
has frequently had better chances, yet she has never worked harder, and never has she more
deserved the laughter she excites. The same may be said of Mr. STANDING and Miss FILLIPPI,
and also of Mr. ARTHUR CECIL, whose make-up is perfect, especially the dressing and colouring
of his hair, which is an artistic triumph. Mr. GILBERT FARQUHAR's Mr. Fawcett, the Solicitor,
contributes much to the fun of the scenes in which he appears with Mrs. JOHN WOOD; and Mr.
CAPE, as Parker, the Confidential Servant, is excellent. There's plenty of "go" in it, but
will it "stay"?

Great attraction at the Lyceum! The Corsican Brothers and Nance Oldfield! ELLEN TERRY as Nance
is delightful. Chorus, Gentlemen, if you please, "For--all our fancy, Dwells upon Nancy!" Our
ELLEN is charming in this, so natural and so theatrical: herself as Nance, and then as Mrs.
Oldfield, the actress, in the characters that Nance assumes. For 'tis ELLEN playing Nancy,
and Nancy again playing Tragedy and Comedy. It is an old piece revived: there never was so
old a piece, for there are only four characters in it, and they're all Old. There are two Oldfields
and two Oldworthys. Mr. WENMAN as Oldfield Senior, or the Old Obadiah, is a trifle too blusterous,
but on the other hand, I am not prepared to say that a country attorney of that period wouldn't
be uncouth and blusterous. His son Alexander, the Young Obadiah, is prettily played by Mr.
GORDON CRAIG, who is a trifle too windmilly with his hands and arms; but in the whole play
nothing becomes him so well as the pathos of his broken-hearted exit. He was touching and going.
Henceforth, this young actor may justly describe himself as of the "Touch-and-go" school, and
be, like "the livin' skeleton" mentioned by Sam Weller, "proud o' the title." Miss KATE PHILLIPS
as Anne's sister--though, as Mr. J.L. T-LE observed, as she is younger than Anne, she cannot
well be her Anne-sister--is as bright and lively as need be, considering her menial position,
which is rather odd in her sister's house. Visit Mistress NANCE TERRY; you'll find her very
much "at home" in the part. After which The Corsican Brothers revived, Ghost and all.

When some years ago the Irvingesque version of it was produced, the twin who lived in Corsica,
Brother Fabien, used to behave in the wildest Corsican way. Who that saw it some years ago
does not remember how he used to chuck his gun up in the air, when it caught on to a hook in
the wall! with what gusto he used to light a tiny cigarette from an enormous flaming brand
snatched from the burning wood fire on the hearth! and how badly the starving guest from Paris
fared in the Corsican household where he hadn't a chance against the appetite of Master Fabien,
who, after a hard day's sport, came in ready for anything, and ate everything! It was the only
occasion when this fearless son of destiny ever "bolted." But, my! how the food used to disappear!
what a short time the supper occupied, and how very much third best the poor stranger came
off under the hospitable roof of the Dei Franchis. Even now the supper is a brief one, but
justice is done to it, and to the weary traveller. Never was such an unhappy tourist! He comes
to a house in the wilds of Corsica; he is choke-full of Parisian gossip, he has a lot to say
of course, but he never gets a chance, as Fabien tells him family stories one after the other,
as if he hadn't had such an opportunity or so good a listener for ever so long. Then, when
on the entrance of his mother Fabien breaks off in the middle of one of his many anecdotes,
which evidently can't be told before ladies, the Parisian gent, who now sees something like
an opening for some light Boulevardian chit-chat, is presented with a flat candlestick and
bowed off to bed, without being allowed a word to say for himself. All this is just the same
as ever; there have been no alterations nor repairs; the piece is as curiously old-fashioned
as are the exquisitely correct costumes; while the Masked Ball at the Opera and the Duel in
the snow are as effective as ever, and the latter, if anything, more so. They make a first-rate
fight of it, do Messrs. Irving dei Franchi and M. Terriss de Château Renaud, until the latter
collapses, and "subsequent proceedings interested him no more." As long as the strong right
arm of the Corsican Brother can draw a good and shining rapier, he will draw as good and brilliant
a house as he did on the first night of this revival. Why ought this piece to go well in the
first theatre in Ireland? Why? because it's a great play for Doublin'. Exeunt omnes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EPIDEMIC.--Up to now Members of Parliament have been generally considered as "influential
personages." This year many M.P.'s will be remembered as "very influenzial personages."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IN A MAZE.

    "Mr. BALFOUR brought up a new sub-section, which he admitted
    was so obscure that he only 'more or less' understood it
    himself, and which, indeed, is of 'plusquam-Thucydidean'
    dimness and involution.... There is no excuse, we must say,
    for the muddle into which the Government has got over the
    Bill.... The House of Commons has adjourned for a short
    holiday, but the Irish Land Purchase Bill is not yet through
    Committee.... There still remained all the new clauses, for
    which no time had been found."--Times.

Little Bill loquitur:--

  Oh do, if you please, Mr. BALFOUR, Sir, if you can,--and who can if you
      can't, Sir?--
  Get me out of this Maze, where for days and days I have strayed till I'm
      all of a pant, Sir.
  Twelve months ago we started, you know, and I've been on my feet ever
      since, Sir.
  And oh, if you please, I feel weak at the knees, and the pains in my back
      make me wince, Sir.
  Mister HOOD's "Lost Child" wasn't half as had, for he only strayed in the
      gutter,
  While this dreadful Maze is enough to craze; and my feeling of lostness
      is utter.
  Oh, my poor feet! This is worse than Crete, and old Hampton Court isn't
      in it.
  Oh stop, do stop! for I feel I shall drop if I don't sit down half a
      minute.

  I really thought you knew the way out--which I own I'm unable to guess,
      Sir--
  And now 'twould appear you are far from clear, and are puzzled "more or
      less," Sir.
  The paths are really so twirly-whirly, the hedges so jimble-jumbled;
  It must be hundreds and hundreds of miles along which we have staggered
      and stumbled.
  I thought you were a cool card. Mister BALFOUR, and did know your way
      about. Sir,
  But what I should like to know at present is, when we are like to get
      out, Sir.
  How LABBY will laugh at the Labyrinth-maker, who gets lost in his own
      Great Maze, Sir!
  Don't say, Sir, pray, that you've lost your way,--you, whom people so
      cosset and praise Sir.
  You won't be hurried, and you can't be flurried, and you're always as
      cool as a cucumber.
  Can a little 'un like me, your own child, don't you see, such a smart
      pioneer as are you cumber?
  You, the modern Theseus? Where's your Ariadne? Oh, I know you are cool,
      and clever.
  Yet I feel a doubt. When shall we get out?--which I can't go on
      wandering for ever!

Mazemaster loquitur:--

  Poor little man! Yes, I had a plan, and a perfectly plain one, too, boy;
  But--I fear--for a moment--I've--lost the clue! Ah! I'm awfully sorry for
      you boy!
  You have been on your feet for a precious long time, and all this
      roundaboutation,
  Is "plusquam-Thucydidean," perhaps, and at any rate mean aggravation.
  But you'll please understand I'm a very "cool hand;" there's abundance of
      "humour" about me,
  And though for a jiffy I seem at a loss, don't you come for to go for to
      doubt me.

  'Tis most complicated, this Miz-Maze! I've stated the clue I've let slip
      for a moment,
  And LABBY, no doubt, and his henchmen, will shout and indulge in invidious
      comment:
  The Times, too, may gird, and declare 'tis absurd not to know one's own
      Labyrinth better.
  The Times is my friend, but a trifle too fond of the goad and the scourge
      and the fetter;
  You really can't rule the whole civilised world with the aid of the whip
      and the closure;
  Though I should enjoy--but no matter, my boy, let us try to maintain our
      composure!
  When shall we get out? That's a matter of doubt, cross-hedges my pathway
      still chequer,
  The clue I've let slip, but you just take my tip; we'll get clear--if you
      keep up your pecker!

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGE FOR THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.

There is a singular directness of purpose in the following advertisement which appears in the
Daily News:--

    REPORTER (27), now on Weekly, WANTS CHANGE. 35s.

The advertiser not only wants change, but he mentions the exact sum. It seems odd. One often
wants change for a sovereign, and even oftener wants the sovereign itself. But what precise
coin a man hands you when he wants thirty-five shillings change is not quite clear.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

Billsbury, May 5.--Received the following letter from TOLLAND yesterday:--

45, Main Street, Billsbury, May 3.

DEAR MR. PATTLE,

