Sad and silent mementos to the giddy traveller as he wanders on! Prostrate remnants of vegetable
nature, how incontestably ye prove what we must all at last come to, and how plain your mouldering
ruins show that the firmest texture avails us naught when Heaven wills that we should cease to be!

Cast thine eye around thee and see the thousands of Nature's productions. Take a view of them
from the opening seed on the surface sending a downward shoot, to the loftiest and the largest
trees rising up and blooming in wild luxuriance: some side by side, others separate; some curved
and knotty, others straight as lances; all, in beautiful gradation, fulfilling the mandates
they had received from Heaven and, though condemned to die, still never failing to keep up
their species till time shall be no more.

Reader, canst thou not be induced to dedicate a few months to the good of the public, and examine
with thy scientific eye the productions which the vast and well-stored colony of Demerara presents
to thee?

What an immense range of forest is there from the rock Saba to the great fall! and what an
uninterrupted extent before thee from it to the banks of the Essequibo! No doubt there is many
a balsam and many a medicinal root yet to be discovered, and many a resin, gum and oil yet
unnoticed. Thy work would be a pleasing one, and thou mightest make several useful observations
in it.

Would it be thought impertinent in thee to hazard a conjecture that, with the resources the
Government of Demerara has, stones might be conveyed from the rock Saba to Stabroek to stem
the equinoctial tides which are for ever sweeping away the expensive wooden piles round the
mounds of the fort? Or would the timber-merchant point at thee in passing by and call thee
a descendant of La Mancha's knight, because thou maintainest that the stones which form the
rapids might be removed with little expense, and thus open the navigation to the wood-cutter
from Stabroek to the great fall? Or wouldst thou be deemed enthusiastic or biassed because
thou givest it as thy opinion that the climate in these high-lands is exceedingly wholesome,
and the lands themselves capable of nourishing and maintaining any number of settlers? In thy
dissertation on the Indians thou mightest hint that possibly they could be induced to help
the new settlers a little; and that, finding their labours well requited, it would be the means
of their keeping up a constant communication with us which probably might be the means of laying
the first stone towards their Christianity. They are a poor harmless, inoffensive set of people,
and their wandering and ill-provided way of living seems more to ask for pity from us than
to fill our heads with thoughts that they would be hostile to us.

What a noble field, kind reader, for thy experimental philosophy and speculations, for thy
learning, for thy perseverance, for thy kindheartedness, for everything that is great and good
within thee!

The accidental traveller who has journeyed on from Stabroek to the rock Saba, and from thence
to the banks of the Essequibo, in pursuit of other things, as he told thee at the beginning,
with but an indifferent interpreter to talk to, no friend to converse with, and totally unfit
for that which he wishes thee to do, can merely mark the outlines of the path he has trodden,
or tell thee the sounds he has heard, or faintly describe what he has seen in the environs
of his resting-places; but if this be enough to induce thee to undertake the journey, and give
the world a description of it, he will be amply satisfied.

It will be two days and a half from the time of entering the path on the western bank of the
Demerara till all be ready and the canoe fairly afloat on the Essequibo. The new rigging it,
and putting every little thing to rights and in its proper place, cannot well be done in less
than a day.

After being night and day in the forest, impervious to the sun's and moon's rays, the sudden
transition to light has a fine heart-cheering effect. Welcome as a lost friend, the solar beam
makes the frame rejoice, and with it a thousand enlivening thoughts rush at once on the soul
and disperse, as a vapour, every sad and sorrowful idea which the deep gloom had helped to
collect there. In coming out of the woods you see the western bank of the Essequibo before
you, low and flat. Here the river is two-thirds as broad as the Demerara at Stabroek.

To the northward there is a hill higher than any in the Demerara; and in the south-south-west
quarter a mountain. It is far away, and appears like a bluish cloud in the horizon. There is
not the least opening on either side. Hills, valleys and low-lands are all linked together
by a chain of forest. Ascend the highest mountain, climb the loftiest tree, as far as the eye
can extend, whichever way it directs itself, all is luxuriant and unbroken forest.

In about nine or ten hours from this you get to an Indian habitation of three huts, on the
point of an island. It is said that a Dutch post once stood here. But there is not the smallest
vestige of it remaining and, except that the trees appear younger than those on the other islands,
which shows that the place has been cleared some time or other, there is no mark left by which
you can conjecture that ever this was a post.

The many islands which you meet with in the way enliven and change the scene, by the avenues
which they make, which look like the mouths of other rivers, and break that long-extended sameness
which is seen in the Demerara.

Proceeding onwards you get to the falls and rapids. In the rainy season they are very tedious
to pass, and often stop your course. In the dry season, by stepping from rock to rock, the
Indians soon manage to get a canoe over them. But when the river is swollen, as it was in May
1812, it is then a difficult task, and often a dangerous one, too. At that time many of the
islands were over-flowed, the rocks covered and the lower branches of the trees in the water.
Sometimes the Indians were obliged to take everything out of the canoe, cut a passage through
the branches which hung over into the river, and then drag up the canoe by main force.

At one place the falls form an oblique line quite across the river impassable to the ascending
canoe, and you are forced to have it dragged four or five hundred yards by land.

It will take you five days, from the Indian habitation on the point of the island, to where
these falls and rapids terminate.

There are no huts in the way. You must bring your own cassava bread along with you, hunt in
the forest for your meat and make the night's shelter for yourself.

Here is a noble range of hills, all covered with the finest trees rising majestically one above
the other, on the western bank, and presenting as rich a scene as ever the eye would wish to
look on. Nothing in vegetable nature can be conceived more charming, grand and luxuriant.

How the heart rejoices in viewing this beautiful landscape when the sky is serene, the air
cool and the sun just sunk behind the mountain's top!

The hayawa-tree perfumes the woods around: pairs of scarlet aras are continually crossing the
river. The maam sends forth its plaintive note, the wren chants its evening song. The caprimulgus
wheels in busy flight around the canoe, while "Whip-poor-will" sits on the broken stump near
the water's edge, complaining as the shades of night set in.

A little before you pass the last of these rapids two immense rocks appear, nearly on the summit
of one of the many hills which form this far-extending range where it begins to fall off gradually
to the south.

They look like two ancient stately towers of some Gothic potentate rearing their heads above
the surrounding trees. What with their situation and their shape together, they strike the
beholder with an idea of antiquated grandeur which he will never forget. He may travel far
and near and see nothing like them. On looking at them through a glass the summit of the southern
one appeared crowned with bushes. The one to the north was quite bare. The Indians have it
from their ancestors that they are the abode of an evil genius, and they pass in the river
below with a reverential awe.

In about seven hours from these stupendous sons of the hill you leave the Essequibo and enter
the River Apoura-poura, which falls into it from the south. The Apoura-poura is nearly one-third
the size of the Demerara at Stabroek. For two days you see nothing but level ground richly
clothed in timber. You leave the Siparouni to the right hand, and on the third day come to
a little hill. The Indians have cleared about an acre of ground on it and erected a temporary
shed. If it be not intended for provision-ground alone, perhaps the next white man who travels
through these remote wilds will find an Indian settlement here.

Two days after leaving this you get to a rising ground on the western bank where stands a single
hut, and about half a mile in the forest there are a few more: some of them square and some
round, with spiral roofs.

Here the fish called pacou is very plentiful: it is perhaps the fattest and most delicious
fish in Guiana. It does not take the hook, but the Indians decoy it to the surface of the water
by means of the seeds of the crab-wood tree and then shoot it with an arrow.

You are now within the borders of Macoushia, inhabited by a different tribe of people called
Macoushi Indians, uncommonly dexterous in the use of the blow-pipe and famous for their skill
in preparing the deadly vegetable- poison commonly called wourali.

It is from this country that those beautiful paroquets named kessi-kessi are procured. Here
the crystal mountains are found; and here the three different species of the ara are seen in
great abundance. Here too grows the tree from which the gum-elastic is got: it is large and
as tall as any in the forest. The wood has much the appearance of sycamore. The gum is contained
in the bark: when that is cut through it oozes out very freely; it is quite white and looks
as rich as cream; it hardens almost immediately as it issues from the tree, so that it is very
easy to collect a ball by forming the juice into a globular shape as fast as it comes out.
It becomes nearly black by being exposed to the air, and is real india-rubber without undergoing
any other process.

The elegant crested bird called cock-of-the-rock, admirably described by Buffon, is a native
of the woody mountains of Macoushia. In the daytime it retires amongst the darkest rocks, and
only comes out to feed a little before sunrise and at sunset: he is of a gloomy disposition
and, like the houtou, never associates with the other birds of the forest.

The Indians in the just-mentioned settlement seemed to depend more on the wourali poison for
killing their game than upon anything else. They had only one gun, and it appeared rusty and
neglected, but their poisoned weapons were in fine order. Their blow-pipes hung from the roof
of the hut, carefully suspended by a silk-grass cord, and on taking a nearer view of them no
dust seemed to have collected there, nor had the spider spun the smallest web on them, which
showed that they were in constant use. The quivers were close by them, with the jaw-bone of
the fish pirai tied by a string to their brim and a small wicker-basket of wild cotton, which
hung down to the centre; they were nearly full of poisoned arrows. It was with difficulty these
Indians could be persuaded to part with any of the wourali poison, though a good price was
offered for it: they gave to understand that it was powder and shot to them, and very difficult
to be procured.

On the second day after leaving this settlement, in passing along, the Indians show you a place
where once a white man lived. His retiring so far from those of his own colour and acquaintance
seemed to carry something extraordinary along with it, and raised a desire to know what could
have induced him to do so. It seems he had been unsuccessful, and that his creditors had treated
him with as little mercy as the strong generally show to the weak. Seeing his endeavours daily
frustrated and his best intentions of no avail, and fearing that when they had taken all he
had they would probably take his liberty too, he thought the world would not be hardhearted
enough to condemn him for retiring from the evils which pressed so heavily on him, and which
he had done all that an honest man could do to ward off. He left his creditors to talk of him
as they thought fit, and, bidding adieu for ever to the place in which he had once seen better
times, he penetrated thus far into these remote and gloomy wilds and ended his days here.

According to the new map of South America, Lake Parima, or the White Sea, ought to be within
three or four days' walk from this place. On asking the Indians whether there was such a place
or not, and describing that the water was fresh and good to drink, an old Indian, who appeared
to be about sixty, said that there was such a place, and that he had been there. This information
would have been satisfactory in some degree had not the Indians carried the point a little
too far. It is very large, said another Indian, and ships come to it. Now these unfortunate
ships were the very things which were not wanted: had he kept them out, it might have done,
but his introducing them was sadly against the lake. Thus you must either suppose that the
old savage and his companion had a confused idea of the thing, and that probably the Lake Parima
they talked of was the Amazons, not far from the city of Para, or that it was their intention
to deceive you. You ought to be cautious in giving credit to their stories, otherwise you will
be apt to be led astray.

Many a ridiculous thing concerning the interior of Guiana has been propagated and received
as true merely because six or seven Indians, questioned separately, have agreed in their narrative.

Ask those who live high up in the Demerara, and they will, every one of them, tell you that
there is a nation of Indians with long tails; that they are very malicious, cruel and ill-natured;
and that the Portuguese have been obliged to stop them off in a certain river to prevent their
depredations. They have also dreadful stories concerning a horrible beast called the water-mamma
which, when it happens to take a spite against a canoe, rises out of the river and in the most
unrelenting manner possible carries both canoe and Indians down to the bottom with it, and
there destroys them. Ludicrous extravagances! pleasing to those fond of the marvellous, and
excellent matter for a distempered brain.

The misinformed and timid court of policy in Demerara was made the dupe of a savage who came
down the Essequibo and gave himself out as king of a mighty tribe. This naked wild man of the
woods seemed to hold the said court in tolerable contempt, and demanded immense supplies, all
which he got; and moreover, some time after, an invitation to come down the ensuing year for
more, which he took care not to forget.

This noisy chieftain boasted so much of his dynasty and domain that the Government was induced
to send up an expedition into his territories to see if he had spoken the truth, and nothing
but the truth. It appeared, however, that his palace was nothing but a hut, the monarch a needy
savage, the heir-apparent nothing to inherit but his father's club and bow and arrows, and
his officers of state wild and uncultivated as the forests through which they strayed.

There was nothing in the hut of this savage, saving the presents he had received from Government,
but what was barely sufficient to support existence; nothing that indicated a power to collect
a hostile force; nothing that showed the least progress towards civilisation. All was rude
and barbarous in the extreme, expressive of the utmost poverty and a scanty population.

You may travel six or seven days without seeing a hut, and when you reach a settlement it seldom
contains more than ten.

The farther you advance into the interior, the more you are convinced that it is thinly inhabited.

The day after passing the place where the white man lived you see a creek on the left-hand,
and shortly after the path to the open country. Here you drag the canoe up into the forest,
and leave it there. Your baggage must now be carried by the Indians. The creek you passed in
the river intersects the path to the next settlement; a large mora has fallen across it and
makes an excellent bridge. After walking an hour and a half you come to the edge of the forest,
and a savanna unfolds itself to the view.

The finest park that England boasts falls far short of this delightful scene. There are about
two thousand acres of grass, with here and there a clump of trees and a few bushes and single
trees scattered up and down by the hand of Nature. The ground is neither hilly nor level, but
diversified with moderate rises and falls, so gently running into one another that the eye
cannot distinguish where they begin nor where they end; while the distant black rocks have
the appearance of a herd at rest. Nearly in the middle there is an eminence which falls off
gradually on every side, and on this the Indians have erected their huts.

To the northward of them the forest forms a circle, as though it had been done by art; to the
eastward it hangs in festoons; and to the south and west it rushes in abruptly, disclosing
a new scene behind it at every step as you advance along.

This beautiful park of Nature is quite surrounded by lofty hills, all arrayed in superbest
garb of trees: some in the form of pyramids, others like sugar-loaves, towering one above the
other, some rounded off, and others as though they had lost their apex. Here two hills rise
up in spiral summits, and the wooded line of communication betwixt them sinks so gradually
that it forms a crescent; and there the ridges of others resemble the waves of an agitated
sea. Beyond these appear others, and others past them, and others still farther on, till they
can scarcely be distinguished from the clouds.

There are no sand-flies nor bete-rouge nor mosquitos in this pretty spot. The fire-flies, during
the night, vie in numbers and brightness with the stars in the firmament above; the air is
pure, and the north-east breeze blows a refreshing gale throughout the day. Here the white-crested
maroudi, which is never found in the Demerara, is pretty plentiful; and here grows the tree
which produces the moran, sometimes called balsam-capivi.

Your route lies south from this place; and at the extremity of the savanna you enter the forest
and journey along a winding path at the foot of a hill. There is no habitation within this
day's walk. The traveller, as usual, must sleep in the forest; the path is not so good the
following day. The hills over which it lies are rocky, steep and rugged; and the spaces betwixt
them swampy and mostly knee-deep in water. After eight hours' walk you find two or three Indian
huts, surrounded by the forest; and in little more than half an hour from these you come to
ten or twelve others, where you pass the night. They are prettily situated at the entrance
into a savanna. The eastern and western hills are still covered with wood; but on looking to
the south-west quarter you perceive it begins to die away. In these forests you may find plenty
of the trees which yield the sweet- smelling resin called accaiari, and which, when pounded
and burnt on charcoal, gives a delightful fragrance.

From hence you proceed, in a south-west direction, through a long swampy savanna. Some of the
hills which border on it have nothing but a thin coarse grass and huge stones on them: others
quite wooded; others with their summits crowned and their base quite bare; and others again
with their summits bare and their base in thickest wood.

Half of this day's march is in water nearly up to the knees. There are four creeks to pass:
one of them has a fallen tree across it. You must make your own bridge across the other three.
Probably, were the truth known, these apparently four creeks are only the meanders of one.

The jabiru, the largest bird in Guiana, feeds in the marshy savanna through which you have
just passed. He is wary and shy, and will not allow you to get within gunshot of him.

You sleep this night in the forest, and reach an Indian settlement about three o'clock the
next evening, after walking one-third of the way through wet and miry ground.

But bad as the walking is through it, it is easier than where you cross over the bare hills,
where you have to tread on sharp stones, most of them lying edgewise.

The ground gone over these two last days seems condemned to perpetual solitude and silence.
There was not one four-footed animal to be seen, nor even the marks of one. It would have been
as silent as midnight, and all as still and unmoved as a monument, had not the jabiru in the
marsh and a few vultures soaring over the mountain's top shown that it was not quite deserted
by animated nature. There were no insects, except one kind of fly about one-fourth the size
of the common house-fly. It bit cruelly, and was much more tormenting than the mosquito on
the sea-coast.

This seems to be the native country of the arrowroot. Wherever you passed through a patch of
wood in a low situation, there you found it growing luxuriantly.

The Indian place you are now at is not the proper place to have come to in order to reach the
Portuguese frontiers. You have advanced too much to the westward. But there was no alternative.
The ground betwixt you and another small settlement (which was the right place to have gone
to) was overflowed; and thus, instead of proceeding southward, you were obliged to wind along
the foot of the western hills, quite out of your way.

But the grand landscape this place affords makes you ample amends for the time you have spent
in reaching it. It would require great descriptive powers to give a proper idea of the situation
these people have chosen for their dwelling.

The hill they are on is steep and high, and full of immense rocks. The huts are not all in
one place, but dispersed wherever they have found a place level enough for a lodgment. Before
you ascend the hill you see at intervals an acre or two of wood, then an open space with a
few huts on it; then wood again, and then an open space, and so on, till the intervening of
the western hills, higher and steeper still, and crowded with trees of the loveliest shades,
closes the enchanting scene.

At the base of this hill stretches an immense plain which appears to the eye, on this elevated
spot, as level as a bowling-green. The mountains on the other side are piled one upon the other
in romantic forms, and gradually retire, till they are undiscernible from the clouds in which
they are involved. To the south-southwest this far-extending plain is lost in the horizon.
The trees on it, which look like islands on the ocean, add greatly to the beauty of the landscape,
while the rivulet's course is marked out by the aeta-trees which follow its meanders.

Not being able to pursue the direct course from hence to the next Indian habitation, on account
of the floods of water which fall at this time of the year, you take a circuit westerly along
the mountain's foot.

At last a large and deep creek stops your progress: it is wide and rapid, and its banks very
steep. There is neither curial nor canoe nor purple- heart tree in the neighbourhood to make
a wood-skin to carry you over, so that you are obliged to swim across; and by the time you
have formed a kind of raft composed of boughs of trees and coarse grass to ferry over your
baggage, the day will be too far spent to think of proceeding. You must be very cautious before
you venture to swim across this creek, for the alligators are numerous and near twenty feet
long. On the present occasion the Indians took uncommon precautions lest they should be devoured
by this cruel and voracious reptile. They cut long sticks and examined closely the side of
the creek for half a mile above and below the place where it was to be crossed; and as soon
as the boldest had swum over he did the same on the other side, and then all followed.

After passing the night on the opposite bank, which is well wooded, it is a brisk walk of nine
hours before you reach four Indian huts, on a rising ground, a few hundred paces from a little
brook whose banks are covered over with coucourite- and aeta-trees.

This is the place you ought to have come to two days ago, had the water permitted you. In crossing
the plain at the most advantageous place you are above ankle-deep in water for three hours;
the remainder of the way is dry, the ground gently rising. As the lower parts of this spacious
plain put on somewhat the appearance of a lake during the periodical rains, it is not improbable
but that this is the place which hath given rise to the supposed existence of the famed Lake
Parima, or El Dorado; but this is mere conjecture.

A few deer are feeding on the coarse, rough grass of this far-extending plain; they keep at
a distance from you, and are continually on the look- out.

The spur-winged plover and a species of the curlew, black with a white bar across the wings,
nearly as large again as the scarlet curlew on the sea- coast, frequently rise before you.
Here too the muscovy duck is numerous, and large flocks of two other kinds wheel round you
as you pass on, but keep out of gunshot. The milk-white egrets and jabirus are distinguished
at a great distance, and in the aeta- and coucourite-trees you may observe flocks of scarlet
and blue aras feeding on the seeds.

It is to these trees that the largest sort of toucan resorts. He is remarkable by a large black
spot on the point of his fine yellow bill. He is very scarce in Demerara, and never seen except
near the sea-coast.

The ants' nests have a singular appearance on this plain; they are in vast abundance on those
parts of it free from water, and are formed of an exceeding hard yellow clay. They rise eight
or ten feet from the ground, in a spiral form, impenetrable to the rain and strong enough to
defy the severest tornado.

The wourali poison procured in these last-mentioned huts seemed very good, and proved afterwards
to be very strong.

There are now no more Indian settlements betwixt you and the Portuguese frontiers. If you wish
to visit their fort, it would be advisable to send an Indian with a letter from hence and wait
his return. On the present occasion a very fortunate circumstance occurred. The Portuguese
commander had sent some Indians and soldiers to build a canoe not far from this settlement;
they had just finished it, and those who did not stay with it had stopped here on their return.

The soldier who commanded the rest said he durst not, upon any account, convey a stranger to
the fort: but he added, as there were two canoes, one of them might be despatched with a letter,
and then we could proceed slowly on in the other.

About three hours from this settlement there is a river called Pirarara, and here the soldiers
had left their canoes while they were making the new one. From the Pirarara you get into the
River Maou, and then into the Tacatou; and just where the Tacatou falls into the Rio Branco
there stands the Portuguese frontier-fort called Fort St. Joachim. From the time of embarking
in the River Pirarara it takes you four days before you reach this fort.

There was nothing very remarkable in passing down these rivers. It is an open country, producing
a coarse grass and interspersed with clumps of trees. The banks have some wood on them, but
it appears stinted and crooked, like that on the bleak hills in England.

The tapir frequently plunged into the river; he was by no means shy, and it was easy to get
a shot at him on land. The kessi-kessi paroquets were in great abundance, and the fine scarlet
aras innumerable in the coucourite- trees at a distance from the river's bank. In the Tacatou
was seen the troupiale. It was charming to hear the sweet and plaintive notes of this pretty
songster of the wilds. The Portuguese call it the nightingale of Guiana.

Towards the close of the fourth evening the canoe which had been sent on with a letter met
us with the commander's answer. During its absence the nights had been cold and stormy, the
rain had fallen in torrents, the days cloudy, and there was no sun to dry the wet hammocks.
Exposed thus, day and night, to the chilling blast and pelting shower, strength of constitution
at last failed and a severe fever came on. The commander's answer was very polite. He remarked,
he regretted much to say that he had received orders to allow no stranger to enter the frontier,
and this being the case he hoped I would not consider him as uncivil: "however," continued
he, "I have ordered the soldier to land you at a certain distance from the fort, where we can
consult together."

We had now arrived at the place, and the canoe which brought the letter returned to the fort
to tell the commander I had fallen sick.

The sun had not risen above an hour the morning after when the Portuguese officer came to the
spot where we had landed the preceding evening. He was tall and spare, and appeared to be from
fifty to fifty-five years old; and though thirty years of service under an equatorial sun had
burnt and shrivelled up his face, still there was something in it so inexpressibly affable
and kind that it set you immediately at your ease. He came close up to the hammock, and taking
hold of my wrist to feel the pulse, "I am sorry, Sir," said he, "to see that the fever has
taken such hold of you. You shall go directly with me," continued he, "to the fort; and though
we have no doctor there, I trust," added he, "we shall soon bring you about again. The orders
I have received forbidding the admission of strangers were never intended to be put in force
against a sick English gentleman."

As the canoe was proceeding slowly down the river towards the fort, the commander asked with
much more interest than a question in ordinary conversation is asked, where was I on the night
of the first of May? On telling him that I was at an Indian settlement a little below the great
fall in the Demerara, and that a strange and sudden noise had alarmed all the Indians, he said
the same astonishing noise had roused every man in Fort St. Joachim, and that they remained
under arms till morning. He observed that he had been quite at a loss to form any idea what
could have caused the noise; but now learning that the same noise had been heard at the same
time far away from the Rio Branco, it struck him there must have been an earthquake somewhere
or other.

Good nourishment and rest, and the unwearied attention and kindness of the Portuguese commander,
stopped the progress of the fever and enabled me to walk about in six days.

Fort St. Joachim was built about five and forty years ago under the apprehension, it is said,
that the Spaniards were coming from the Rio Negro to settle there. It has been much neglected;
the floods of water have carried away the gate and destroyed the wall on each side of it, but
the present commander is putting it into thorough repair. When finished it will mount six nine-
and six twelve-pounders.

In a straight line with the fort, and within a few yards of the river, stand the commander's
house, the barracks, the chapel, the father- confessor's house and two others, all at little
intervals from each other; and these are the only buildings at Fort St. Joachim. The neighbouring
extensive plains afford good pasturage for a fine breed of cattle, and the Portuguese make
enough of butter and cheese for their own consumption.

On asking the old officer if there were such a place as Lake Parima, or El Dorado, he replied
he looked upon it as imaginary altogether. "I have been above forty years," added he, "in Portuguese
Guiana, but have never yet met with anybody who has seen the lake."

So much for Lake Parima, or El Dorado, or the White Sea. Its existence at best seems doubtful:
some affirm that there is such a place and others deny it.

  Grammatici certant, et adhuc sub judice lis est.

Having now reached the Portuguese inland frontier and collected a sufficient quantity of the
wourali poison, nothing remains but to give a brief account of its composition, its effects,
its uses and its supposed antidotes.

It has been already remarked that in the extensive wilds of Demerara and Essequibo, far away
from any European settlement, there is a tribe of Indians who are known by the name of Macoushi.

Though the wourali poison is used by all the South American savages betwixt the Amazons and
the Oroonoque, still this tribe makes it stronger than any of the rest. The Indians in the
vicinity of the Rio Negro are aware of this, and come to the Macoushi country to purchase it.

Much has been said concerning this fatal and extraordinary poison. Some have affirmed that
its effects are almost instantaneous, provided the minutest particle of it mixes with the blood;
and others again have maintained that it is not strong enough to kill an animal of the size
and strength of a man. The first have erred by lending a too willing ear to the marvellous
and believing assertions without sufficient proof. The following short story points out the
necessity of a cautious examination.

One day, on asking an Indian if he thought the poison would kill a man, he replied that they
always go to battle with it; that he was standing by when an Indian was shot with a poisoned
arrow, and that he expired almost immediately. Not wishing to dispute this apparently satisfactory
information the subject was dropped.

However, about an hour after, having purposely asked him in what part of the body the said
Indian was wounded, he answered without hesitation that the arrow entered betwixt his shoulders
and passed quite through his heart. Was it the weapon or the strength of the poison that brought
on immediate dissolution in this case? Of course the weapon.

The second have been misled by disappointment caused by neglect in keeping the poisoned arrows,
or by not knowing how to use them, or by trying inferior poison. If the arrows are not kept
dry the poison loses its strength, and in wet or damp weather it turns mouldy and becomes quite
soft. In shooting an arrow in this state, upon examining the place where it has entered, it
will be observed that, though the arrow has penetrated deep into the flesh, still by far the
greatest part of the poison has shrunk back, and thus, instead of entering with the arrow,
it has remained collected at the mouth of the wound. In this case the arrow might as well have
not been poisoned. Probably it was to this that a gentleman, some time ago, owed his disappointment
when he tried the poison on a horse in the town of Stabroek, the capital of Demerara; the horse
never betrayed the least symptom of being affected by it.

Wishful to obtain the best information concerning this poison, and as repeated inquiries, in
lieu of dissipating the surrounding shade, did but tend more and more to darken the little
light that existed, I determined to penetrate into the country where the poisonous ingredients
grow, where this pernicious composition is prepared and where it is constantly used. Success
attended the adventure, and the information acquired made amends for one hundred and twenty
days passed in the solitudes of Guiana, and afforded a balm to the wounds and bruises which
every traveller must expect to receive who wanders through a thorny and obstructed path.

Thou must not, courteous reader, expect a dissertation on the manner in which the wourali poison
operates on the system: a treatise has been already written on the subject, and, after all,
there is probably still reason to doubt. It is supposed to affect the nervous system, and thus
destroy the vital functions; it is also said to be perfectly harmless provided it does not
touch the blood. However, this is certain: when a sufficient quantity of it enters the blood,
death is the inevitable consequence; but there is no alteration in the colour of the blood,
and both the blood and flesh may be eaten with safety.

All that thou wilt find here is a concise, unadorned account of the wourali poison. It may
be of service to thee some time or other shouldst thou ever travel through the wilds where
it is used. Neither attribute to cruelty, nor to a want of feeling for the sufferings of the
inferior animals, the ensuing experiments. The larger animals were destroyed in order to have
proof positive of the strength of a poison which hath hitherto been doubted, and the smaller
ones were killed with the hope of substantiating that which has commonly been supposed to be
an antidote.

It makes a pitying heart ache to see a poor creature in distress and pain; and too often has
the compassionate traveller occasion to heave a sigh as he journeys on. However, here, though
the kind-hearted will be sorry to read of an unoffending animal doomed to death in order to
satisfy a doubt, still it will be a relief to know that the victim was not tortured. The wourali
poison destroys life's action so gently that the victim appears to be in no pain whatever;
and probably, were the truth known, it feels none, saving the momentary smart at the time the
arrow enters.

A day or two before the Macoushi Indian prepares his poison he goes into the forest in quest
of the ingredients. A vine grows in these wilds which is called wourali. It is from this that
the poison takes its name, and it is the principal ingredient. When he has procured enough
of this he digs up a root of a very bitter taste, ties them together, and then looks about
for two kinds of bulbous plants which contain a green and glutinous juice. He fills a little
quake which he carries on his back with the stalks of these; and lastly ranges up and down
till he finds two species of ants. One of them is very large and black, and so venomous that
its sting produces a fever: it is most commonly to be met with on the ground. The other is
a little red ant which stings like a nettle, and generally has its nest under the leaf of a
shrub. After obtaining these he has no more need to range the forest.

A quantity of the strongest Indian pepper is used, but this he has already planted round his
hut. The pounded fangs of the labarri snake and those of the counacouchi are likewise added.
These he commonly has in store, for when he kills a snake he generally extracts the fangs and
keeps them by him.

Having thus found the necessary ingredients, he scrapes the wourali vine and bitter root into
thin shavings and puts them into a kind of colander made of leaves. This he holds over an earthen
pot, and pours water on the shavings: the liquor which comes through has the appearance of
coffee. When a sufficient quantity has been procured the shavings are thrown aside. He then
bruises the bulbous stalks and squeezes a proportionate quantity of their juice through his
hands into the pot. Lastly the snakes' fangs, ants and pepper are bruised and thrown into it.
It is then placed on a slow fire, and as it boils more of the juice of the wourali is added,
according as it may be found necessary, and the scum is taken off with a leaf: it remains on
the fire till reduced to a thick syrup of a deep brown colour. As soon as it has arrived at
this state a few arrows are poisoned with it, to try its strength. If it answer the expectations
it is poured out into a calabash, or little pot of Indian manufacture, which is carefully covered
with a couple of leaves, and over them a piece of deer's skin tied round with a cord. They
keep it in the most dry part of the hut, and from time to time suspend it over the fire to
counteract the effects of dampness.

The act of preparing this poison is not considered as a common one: the savage may shape his
bow, fasten the barb on the point of his arrow and make his other implements of destruction
either lying in his hammock or in the midst of his family; but if he has to prepare the wourali
poison, many precautions are supposed to be necessary.

The women and young girls are not allowed to be present, lest the Yabahou, or evil spirit,
should do them harm. The shed under which it has been boiled is pronounced polluted, and abandoned
ever after. He who makes the poison must eat nothing that morning, and must continue fasting
as long as the operation lasts. The pot in which it is boiled must be a new one, and must never
have held anything before, otherwise the poison would be deficient in strength: add to this
that the operator must take particular care not to expose himself to the vapour which arises
from it while on the fire.

Though this and other precautions are taken, such as frequently washing the face and hands,
still the Indians think that it affects the health; and the operator either is, or, what is
more probable, supposes himself to be, sick for some days after.

Thus it appears that the making the wourali poison is considered as a gloomy and mysterious
operation; and it would seem that they imagine it affects others as well as him who boils it,
for an Indian agreed one evening to make some for me, but the next morning he declined having
anything to do with it, alleging that his wife was with child!

Here it might be asked, are all the ingredients just mentioned necessary in order to produce
the wourali poison? Though our opinions and conjectures may militate against the absolute necessity
of some of them, still it would be hardly fair to pronounce them added by the hand of superstition
till proof positive can be obtained.

We might argue on the subject, and by bringing forward instances of Indian superstition draw
our conclusion by inference, and still remain in doubt on this head. You know superstition
to be the offspring of ignorance, and of course that it takes up its abode amongst the rudest
tribes of uncivilised man. It even too often resides with man in his more enlightened state.

The Augustan age furnishes numerous examples. A bone snatched from the jaws of a fasting bitch,
and a feather from the wing of a night-owl--"ossa ab ore rapta jejunae canis, plumamque nocturnae
strigis"--were necessary for Canidia's incantations. And in after-times Parson Evans, the Welshman,
was treated most ungenteelly by an enraged spirit solely because he had forgotten a fumigation
in his witch-work.

If, then, enlightened man lets his better sense give way, and believes, or allows himself to
be persuaded, that certain substances and actions, in reality of no avail, possess a virtue
which renders them useful in producing the wished-for effect, may not the wild, untaught, unenlightened
savage of Guiana add an ingredient which, on account of the harm it does him, he fancies may
be useful to the perfection of his poison, though in fact it be of no use at all? If a bone
snatched from the jaws of a fasting bitch be thought necessary in incantation; or if witchcraft
have recourse to the raiment of the owl because it resorts to the tombs and mausoleums of the
dead and wails and hovers about at the time that the rest of animated nature sleeps; certainly
the savage may imagine that the ants, whose sting causes a fever, and the teeth of the labarri
and counacouchi snakes, which convey death in a very short space of time, are essentially necessary
in the composition of his poison; and being once impressed with this idea, he will add them
every time he makes the poison and transmit the absolute use of them to his posterity. The
question to be answered seems not to be if it is natural for the Indians to mix these ingredients,
but if they are essential to make the poison.

So much for the preparing of this vegetable essence: terrible importer of death, into whatever
animal it enters. Let us now see how it is used; let us examine the weapons which bear it to
its destination, and take a view of the poor victim from the time he receives his wound till
death comes to his relief.

When a native of Macoushia goes in quest of feathered game or other birds he seldom carries
his bow and arrows. It is the blow-pipe he then uses. This extraordinary tube of death is,
perhaps, one of the greatest natural curiosities of Guiana. It is not found in the country
of the Macoushi. Those Indians tell you that it grows to the south-west of them, in the wilds
which extend betwixt them and the Rio Negro. The reed must grow to an amazing length, as the
part the Indians use is from ten to eleven feet long, and no tapering can be perceived in it,
one end being as thick as the other. It is of a bright yellow colour, perfectly smooth both
inside and out. It grows hollow, nor is there the least appearance of a knot or joint throughout
the whole extent. The natives call it ourah. This of itself is too slender to answer the end
of a blow-pipe, but there is a species of palma, larger and stronger, and common in Guiana,
and this the Indians make use of as a case in which they put the ourah. It is brown, susceptible
of a fine polish, and appears as if it had joints five or six inches from each other. It is
called samourah, and the pulp inside is easily extracted by steeping it for a few days in water.

Thus the ourah and samourah, one within the other, form the blow-pipe of Guiana. The end which
is applied to the mouth is tied round with a small silk-grass cord to prevent its splitting,
and the other end, which is apt to strike against the ground, is secured by the seed of the
acuero fruit cut horizontally through the middle, with a hole made in the end through which
is put the extremity of the blow-pipe. It is fastened on with string on the outside, and the
inside is filled up with wild-bees' wax.

The arrow is from nine to ten inches long. It is made out of the leaf of a species of palm-tree
called coucourite, hard and brittle, and pointed as sharp as a needle. About an inch of the
pointed end is poisoned. The other end is burnt to make it still harder, and wild cotton is
put round it for about an inch and a half. It requires considerable practice to put on this
cotton well. It must just be large enough to fit the hollow of the tube and taper off to nothing
downwards. They tie it on with a thread of the silk- grass to prevent its slipping off the arrow.

The Indians have shown ingenuity in making a quiver to hold the arrows. It will contain from
five to six hundred. It is generally from twelve to fourteen inches long, and in shape resembles
a dice-box used at backgammon. The inside is prettily done in basket-work with wood not unlike
bamboo, and the outside has a coat of wax. The cover is all of one piece formed out of the
skin of the tapir. Round the centre there is fastened a loop large enough to admit the arm
and shoulder, from which it hangs when used. To the rim is tied a little bunch of silk-grass
and half of the jaw-bone of the fish called pirai, with which the Indian scrapes the point
of his arrow.

Before he puts the arrows into the quiver he links them together by two strings of cotton,
one string at each end, and then folds them round a stick which is nearly the length of the
quiver. The end of the stick, which is uppermost, is guarded by two little pieces of wood crosswise,
with a hoop round their extremities, which appears something like a wheel, and this saves the
hand from being wounded when the quiver is reversed in order to let the bunch of arrows drop out.

There is also attached to the quiver a little kind of basket to hold the wild cotton which
is put on the blunt end of the arrow. With a quiver of poisoned arrows slung over his shoulder,
and with his blow-pipe in his hand, in the same position as a soldier carries his musket, see
the Macoushi Indian advancing towards the forest in quest of powises, maroudis, waracabas and
other feathered game.

These generally sit high up in the tall and tufted trees, but still are not out of the Indian's
reach, for his blow-pipe, at its greatest elevation, will send an arrow three hundred feet.
Silent as midnight he steals under them, and so cautiously does he tread the ground that the
fallen leaves rustle not beneath his feet. His ears are open to the least sound, while his
eye, keen as that of the lynx, is employed in finding out the game in the thickest shade. Often
he imitates their cry, and decoys them from tree to tree, till they are within range of his
tube. Then taking a poisoned arrow from his quiver, he puts it in the blow-pipe and collects
his breath for the fatal puff.

About two feet from the end through which he blows there are fastened two teeth of the acouri,
and these serve him for a sight. Silent and swift the arrow flies, and seldom fails to pierce
the object at which it is sent. Sometimes the wounded bird remains in the same tree where it
was shot, and in three minutes falls down at the Indian's feet. Should he take wing his flight
is of short duration, and the Indian, following the direction he has gone, is sure to find
him dead.

It is natural to imagine that when a slight wound only is inflicted the game will make its
escape. Far otherwise; the wourali poison almost instantaneously mixes with blood or water,
so that if you wet your finger and dash it along the poisoned arrow in the quickest manner
possible you are sure to carry off some of the poison. Though three minutes generally elapse
before the convulsions come on in the wounded bird, still a stupor evidently takes place sooner,
and this stupor manifests itself by an apparent unwillingness in the bird to move. This was
very visible in a dying fowl.

Having procured a healthy full-grown one, a short piece of a poisoned blow- pipe arrow was
broken off and run up into its thigh, as near as possible betwixt the skin and the flesh, in
order that it might not be incommoded by the wound. For the first minute it walked about, but
walked very slowly, and did not appear the least agitated. During the second minute it stood
still, and began to peck the ground; and ere half another had elapsed it frequently opened
and shut its mouth. The tail had now dropped and the wings almost touched the ground. By the
termination of the third minute it had sat down, scarce able to support its head, which nodded,
and then recovered itself, and then nodded again, lower and lower every time, like that of
a weary traveller slumbering in an erect position; the eyes alternately open and shut. The
fourth minute brought on convulsions, and life and the fifth terminated together.

The flesh of the game is not in the least injured by the poison, nor does it appear to corrupt
sooner than that killed by the gun or knife. The body of this fowl was kept for sixteen hours
in a climate damp and rainy, and within seven degrees of the equator, at the end of which time
it had contracted no bad smell whatever and there were no symptoms of putrefaction, saving
that just round the wound the flesh appeared somewhat discoloured.

The Indian, on his return home, carefully suspends his blow-pipe from the top of his spiral
roof, seldom placing it in an oblique position, lest it should receive a cast.

Here let the blow-pipe remain suspended while you take a view of the arms which are made to
slay the larger beasts of the forest.

When the Indian intends to chase the peccari, or surprise the deer, or rouse the tapir from
his marshy retreat, he carries his bow and arrows, which are very different from the weapons
already described.

The bow is generally from six to seven feet long and strung with a cord spun out of the silk-grass.
The forests of Guiana furnish many species of hard wood, tough and elastic, out of which beautiful
and excellent bows are formed.

The arrows are from four to five feet in length, made of a yellow reed without a knot or joint.
It is found in great plenty up and down throughout Guiana. A piece of hard wood about nine
inches long is inserted into the end of the reed, and fastened with cotton well waxed. A square
hole an inch deep is then made in the end of this piece of hard wood, done tight round with
cotton to keep it from splitting. Into this square hole is fitted a spike of coucourite-wood,
poisoned, and which may be kept there or taken out at pleasure. A joint of bamboo, about as
thick as your finger, is fitted on over the poisoned spike to prevent accidents and defend
it from the rain, and is taken off when the arrow is about to be used. Lastly, two feathers
are fastened the other end of the reed to steady it in its flight.

Besides his bow and arrows, the Indian carries a little box made of bamboo which holds a dozen
or fifteen poisoned spikes six inches long. They are poisoned in the following manner: a small
piece of wood is dipped in the poison, and with this they give the spike a first coat. It is
then exposed to the sun or fire. After it is dry it receives another coat, and then dried again;
after this a third coat, and sometimes a fourth.

They take great care to put the poison on thicker at the middle than at the sides, by which
means the spike retains the shape of a two-edged sword. It is rather a tedious operation to
make one of these arrows complete, and as the Indian is not famed for industry, except when
pressed by hunger, he has hit upon a plan of preserving his arrows which deserves notice.

About a quarter of an inch above the part where the coucourite spike is fixed into the square
hole he cuts it half through, and thus, when it has entered the animal, the weight of the arrow
causes it to break off there, by which means the arrow falls to the ground uninjured, so that,
should this be the only arrow he happens to have with him and should another shot immediately
occur, he has only to take another poisoned spike out of his little bamboo box, fit it on its
arrow, and send it to its destination.

Thus armed with deadly poison, and hungry as the hyaena, he ranges through the forest in quest
of the wild-beasts' track. No hound can act a surer part. Without clothes to fetter him or
shoes to bind his feet, he observes the footsteps of the game where an European eye could not
discern the smallest vestige. He pursues it through all its turns and windings with astonishing
perseverance, and success generally crowns his efforts. The animal, after receiving the poisoned
arrow, seldom retreats two hundred paces before it drops.

In passing over-land from the Essequibo to the Demerara we fell in with a herd of wild hogs.
Though encumbered with baggage and fatigued with a hard day's walk, an Indian got his bow ready
and let fly a poisoned arrow at one of them. It entered the cheek-bone and broke off. The wild
hog was found quite dead about one hundred and seventy paces from the place where he had been
shot. He afforded us an excellent and wholesome supper.

Thus the savage of Guiana, independent of the common weapons of destruction, has it in his
power to prepare a poison by which he can generally ensure to himself a supply of animal food:
and the food so destroyed imbibes no deleterious qualities. Nature has been bountiful to him.
She has not only ordered poisonous herbs and roots to grow in the unbounded forests through
which he strays, but has also furnished an excellent reed for his arrows, and another still
more singular for his blow-pipe, and planted trees of an amazing hard, tough and elastic texture
out of which he forms his bows. And in order that nothing might be wanting, she has superadded
a tree which yields him a fine wax and disseminated up and down a plant not unlike that of
the pine-apple which affords him capital bow-strings.

Having now followed the Indian in the chase and described the poison, let us take a nearer
view of its action and observe a large animal expiring under the weight of its baneful virulence.

Many have doubted the strength of the wourali poison. Should they ever by chance read what
follows, probably their doubts on that score will be settled for ever.

In the former experiment on the dog some faint resistance on the part of Nature was observed,
as if existence struggled for superiority, but in the following instance of the sloth life
sunk in death without the least apparent contention, without a cry, without a struggle and
without a groan. This was an ai, or three-toed sloth. It was in the possession of a gentleman
who was collecting curiosities. He wished to have it killed in order to preserve the skin,
and the wourali poison was resorted to as the easiest death.

Of all animals, not even the toad and tortoise excepted, this poor ill- formed creature is
the most tenacious of life. It exists long after it has received wounds which would have destroyed
any other animal, and it may be said, on seeing a mortally-wounded sloth, that life disputes
with death every inch of flesh in its body.

The ai was wounded in the leg, and put down on the floor about two feet from the table; it
contrived to reach the leg of the table, and fastened itself on it, as if wishful to ascend.
But this was its last advancing step: life was ebbing fast though imperceptibly, nor could
this singular production of Nature, which has been formed of a texture to resist death in a
thousand shapes, make any stand against the wourali poison.

First one fore-leg let go its hold, and dropped down motionless by its side; the other gradually
did the same. The fore-legs having now lost their strength, the sloth slowly doubled its body
and placed its head betwixt its hind-legs, which still adhered to the table; but when the poison
had affected these also it sunk to the ground, but sunk so gently that you could not distinguish
the movement from an ordinary motion, and had you been ignorant that it was wounded with a
poisoned arrow you would never have suspected that it was dying. Its mouth was shut, nor had
any froth or saliva collected there.

There was no subsultus tendinum or any visible alteration in its breathing. During the tenth
minute from the time it was wounded it stirred, and that was all; and the minute after life's
last spark went out. From the time the poison began to operate you would have conjectured that
sleep was overpowering it, and you would have exclaimed: "Pressitque jacentem, dulcis et alta
quies, placidaeque simillima morti."

There are now two positive proofs of the effect of this fatal poison: viz. the death of the
dog and that of the sloth. But still these animals were nothing remarkable for size, and the
strength of the poison in large animals might yet be doubted were it not for what follows.

A large well-fed ox, from nine hundred to a thousand pounds weight, was tied to a stake by
a rope sufficiently strong to allow him to move to and fro. Having no large coucourite spikes
at hand, it was judged necessary, on account of his superior size, to put three wild-hog arrows
into him: one was sent into each thigh just above the hock in order to avoid wounding a vital
part, and the third was shot traversely into the extremity of the nostril.

The poison seemed to take effect in four minutes. Conscious as though he would fall, the ox
set himself firmly on his legs and remained quite still in the same place till about the fourteenth
minute, when he smelled the ground and appeared as if inclined to walk. He advanced a pace
or two, staggered and fell, and remained extended on his side, with his head on the ground.
His eye, a few minutes ago so bright and lively, now became fixed and dim, and though you put
your hand close to it, as if to give him a blow there, he never closed his eyelid.

His legs were convulsed and his head from time to time started involuntarily, but he never
showed the least desire to raise it from the ground. He breathed hard and emitted foam from
his mouth. The startings, or subsultus tendinum, now became gradually weaker and weaker; his
hinder parts were fixed in death, and in a minute or two more his head and fore-legs ceased
to stir.

Nothing now remained to show that life was still within him except that his heart faintly beat
and fluttered at intervals. In five and twenty minutes from the time of his being wounded he
was quite dead. His flesh was very sweet and savoury at dinner.

On taking a retrospective view of the two different kinds of poisoned arrows, and the animals
destroyed by them, it would appear that the quantity of poison must be proportioned to the
animal, and thus those probably labour under an error who imagine that the smallest particle
of it introduced into the blood has almost instantaneous effects.

Make an estimate of the difference in size betwixt the fowl and the ox, and then weigh a sufficient
quantity of poison for a blow-pipe arrow, with which the fowl was killed, and weigh also enough
poison for three wild-hog arrows, which destroyed the ox, and it will appear that the fowl
received much more poison in proportion than the ox. Hence the cause why the fowl died in five
minutes and the ox in five and twenty.

Indeed, were it the case that the smallest particle of it introduced into the blood has almost
instantaneous effects, the Indian would not find it necessary to make the large arrow: that
of the blow-pipe is much easier made and requires less poison.

And now for the antidotes, or rather the supposed antidotes. The Indians tell you, that if
the wounded animal be held for a considerable time up to the mouth in water the poison will
not prove fatal; also that the juice of the sugar-cane poured down the throat will counteract
the effects of it. These antidotes were fairly tried upon full-grown healthy fowls, but they
all died, as though no steps had been taken to preserve their lives. Rum was recommended, and
given to another, but with as little success.

It is supposed by some that wind introduced into the lungs by means of a small pair of bellows
would revive the poisoned patient, provided the operation be continued for a sufficient length
of time. It may be so; but this is a difficult and a tedious mode of cure, and he who is wounded
in the forest, far away from his friends, or in the hut of the savages, stands but a poor chance
of being saved by it.

Had the Indians a sure antidote, it is likely they would carry it about with them or resort
to it immediately after being wounded, if at hand; and their confidence in its efficacy would
greatly diminish the horror they betray when you point a poisoned arrow at them.

One day, while we were eating a red monkey erroneously called the baboon, in Demerara, an Arowack
Indian told an affecting story of what happened to a comrade of his. He was present at his
death. As it did not interest this Indian in any point to tell a falsehood, it is very probable
that his account was a true one. If so, it appears that there is no certain antidote, or at
least an antidote that could be resorted to in a case of urgent need, for the Indian gave up
all thoughts of life as soon as he was wounded.

The Arowack Indian said it was but four years ago that he and his companion were ranging in
the forest in quest of game. His companion took a poisoned arrow and sent it at a red monkey
in a tree above him. It was nearly a perpendicular shot. The arrow missed the monkey, and in
the descent struck him in the arm a little above the elbow. He was convinced it was all over
with him. "I shall never," said he to his companion, in a faltering voice, and looking at his
bow as he said it, "I shall never," said he, "bend this bow again." And having said that, he
took off his little bamboo poison-box, which hung across his shoulder, and putting it together
with his bow and arrows on the ground, he laid himself down close by them, bid his companion
farewell, and never spoke more.

He who is unfortunate enough to be wounded by a poisoned arrow from Macoushia had better not
depend upon the common antidotes for a cure. Many who have been in Guiana will recommend immediate
immersion in water, or to take the juice of the sugar-cane, or to fill the mouth full of salt;
and they recommend these antidotes because they have got them from the Indians. But were you
to ask them if they ever saw these antidotes used with success, it is ten to one their answer
would be in the negative.

Wherefore let him reject these antidotes as unprofitable and of no avail. He has got an active
and deadly foe within him which, like Shakespeare's fell Serjeant Death, is strict in his arrest,
and will allow him but little time--very, very little time. In a few minutes he will be numbered
with the dead. Life ought, if possible, to be preserved, be the expense ever so great. Should
the part affected admit of it, let a ligature be tied tight round the wound, and have immediate
recourse to the knife:

  Continuo, culpam ferro compesce, priusquam
  Dira per infaustum serpant contagia corpus.

And now, kind reader, it is time to bid thee farewell. The two ends proposed have been obtained.
The Portuguese inland frontier-fort has been reached and the Macoushi wourali poison acquired.
The account of this excursion through the interior of Guiana has been submitted to thy perusal
in order to induce thy abler genius to undertake a more extensive one. If any difficulties
have arisen, or fevers come on, they have been caused by the periodical rains which fall in
torrents as the sun approaches the Tropic of Cancer. In dry weather there would be no difficulties
or sickness.

Amongst the many satisfactory conclusions which thou wouldest be able to draw during the journey
there is one which, perhaps, would please thee not a little, and that is with regard to dogs.
Many a time, no doubt, thou hast heard it hotly disputed that dogs existed in Guiana previously
to the arrival of the Spaniards in those parts. Whatever the Spaniards introduced, and which
bore no resemblance to anything the Indians had been accustomed to see, retains its Spanish
name to this day.

Thus the Warow, the Arowack, the Acoway, the Macoushi and Carib tribes call a hat sombrero;
a shirt or any kind of cloth camisa; a shoe zapalo; a letter carta; a fowl gallina; gunpowder
colvora (Spanish polvora); ammunition bala; a cow vaca; and a dog perro.

This argues strongly against the existence of dogs in Guiana before it was discovered by the
Spaniards, and probably may be of use to thee in thy next canine dispute.

In a political point of view this country presents a large field for speculation. A few years
ago there was but little inducement for any Englishman to explore the interior of these rich
and fine colonies, as the British Government did not consider them worth holding at the Peace
of Amiens. Since that period their mother-country has been blotted out from the list of nations,
and America has unfolded a new sheet of politics. On one side the Crown of Braganza, attacked
by an ambitious chieftain, has fled from the palace of its ancestors, and now seems fixed on
the banks of the Janeiro. Cayenne has yielded to its arms, La Plata has raised the standard
of independence and thinks itself sufficiently strong to obtain a Government of its own. On
the other side the Caraccas are in open revolt, and should Santa Fe join them in good earnest
they may form a powerful association.

Thus on each side of ci-devant Dutch Guiana most unexpected and astonishing changes have taken
place. Will they raise or lower it in the scale of estimation at the Court of St. James's?
Will they be of benefit to these grand and extensive colonies? Colonies enjoying perpetual
summer. Colonies of the richest soil. Colonies containing within themselves everything necessary
for their support. Colonies, in fine, so varied in their quality and situation as to be capable
of bringing to perfection every tropical production, and only want the support of Government,
and an enlightened governor, to render them as fine as the finest portions of the equatorial
regions. Kind reader, fare thee well!

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter to the Portuguese Commander

MUY SENOR,

Como no tengo el honor, de ser conocido de VM. lo pienso mejor, y mas decoroso, quedarme aqui,
hastaque huviere recibido su respuesta. Haviendo caminado hasta la choza, adonde estoi, no
quisiere volverme, antes de haver visto la fortaleza de los Portugueses; y pido licencia de
VM. para que me adelante. Honradissimos son mis motivos, ni tengo proyecto ninguno, o de comercio,
o de la soldadesca, no siendo yo, o comerciante, o oficial. Hidalgo catolico soy, de hacienda
in Ynglatierra, y muchos anos de mi vida he pasado en caminar. Ultimamente, de Demeraria vengo,
la quai dexe el 5 dia de Abril, para ver este hermoso pais, y coger unas curiosidades, especialmente,
el veneno, que se llama wourali. Las mas recentes noticias que tenian en Demeraria, antes di
mi salida, eran medias tristes, medias alegres. Tristes digo, viendo que Valencia ha caido
en poder del enemigo comun, y el General Blake, y sus valientes tropas quedan prisioneros de
guerra. Alegres, al contrario, porque Milord Wellington se ha apoderado de Ciudad Rodrigo.
A pesar de la caida de Valencia, parece claro al mundo, que las cosas del enemigo, estan andando,
de pejor a pejor cada dia. Nosotros debemos dar gracias al Altissimo, por haver sido servido
dexarnos castigar ultimamente, a los robadores, de sus santas Yglesias. Se vera VM. que yo
no escribo Portugues ni aun lo hablo, pero, haviendo aprendido el Castellano, no nos faltara
medio de communicar y tener conversacion. Ruego se escuse esta carta escrita sin tinta, porque
un Indio dexo caer mi tintero y quebrose. Dios le de a VM. muchos anos de salud. Entretanto,
tengo el honor de ser

Su mas obedeciente servidor,

CARLOS WATERTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMARKS

  Incertus, quo fata ferant, ubi sistere detur.

Kind and gentle reader, if the journey in quest of the wourali poison has engaged thy attention,
probably thou mayest recollect that the traveller took leave of thee at Fort St. Joachim, on
the Rio Branco. Shouldest thou wish to know what befell him afterwards, excuse the following
uninteresting narrative.

Having had a return of fever, and aware that the farther he advanced into these wild and lonely
regions the less would be the chance of regaining his health, he gave up all idea of proceeding
onwards, and went slowly back towards the Demerara, nearly by the same route he had come.

On descending the falls in the Essequibo, which form an oblique line quite across the river,
it was resolved to push through them, the downward stream being in the canoe's favour. At a
little distance from the place a large tree had fallen into the river, and in the meantime
the canoe was lashed to one of its branches.

The roaring of the water was dreadful: it foamed and dashed over the rocks with a tremendous
spray, like breakers on a lee-shore, threatening destruction to whatever approached it. You
would have thought, by the confusion it caused in the river and the whirlpools it made, that
Scylla and Charybdis, and their whole progeny, had left the Mediterranean and come and settled
here. The channel was barely twelve feet wide, and the torrent in rushing down formed traverse
furrows which showed how near the rocks were to the surface.

Nothing could surpass the skill of the Indian who steered the canoe. He looked steadfastly
at it, then at the rocks, then cast an eye on the channel, and then looked at the canoe again.
It was in vain to speak. The sound was lost in the roar of waters, but his eye showed that
he had already passed it in imagination. He held up his paddle in a position as much as to
say that he would keep exactly amid channel, and then made a sign to cut the bush-rope that
held the canoe to the fallen tree. The canoe drove down the torrent with inconceivable rapidity.
It did not touch the rocks once all the way. The Indian proved to a nicety: "medio tutissimus
ibis."

Shortly after this it rained almost day and night, the lightning flashing incessantly and the
roar of thunder awful beyond expression.

The fever returned, and pressed so heavy on him that to all appearance his last day's march
was over. However, it abated, his spirits rallied, and he marched again; and after delays and
inconveniences he reached the house of his worthy friend Mr. Edmonstone, in Mibiri Creek, which
falls into the Demerara. No words of his can do justice to the hospitality of that gentleman,
whose repeated encounters with the hostile negroes in the forest have been publicly rewarded
and will be remembered in the colony for years to come.

Here he learned that an eruption had taken place in St. Vincent's, and thus the noise heard
in the night of the first of May, which had caused such terror amongst the Indians and made
the garrison at Fort St. Joachim remain under arms the rest of the night, is accounted for.

After experiencing every kindness and attention from Mr. Edmonstone he sailed for Granada,
and from thence to St. Thomas's, a few days before poor Captain Peake lost his life on his
own quarter-deck bravely fighting for his country on the coast of Guiana.

At St. Thomas's they show you a tower, a little distance from the town, which they say formerly
belonged to a bucanier chieftain. Probably the fury of besiegers has reduced it to its present
dismantled state. What still remains of it bears testimony of its former strength and may brave
the attack of time for centuries. You cannot view its ruins without calling to mind the exploits
of those fierce and hardy hunters, long the terror of the Western world. While you admire their
undaunted courage, you lament that it was often stained with cruelty; while you extol their
scrupulous justice to each other, you will find a want of it towards the rest of mankind. Often
possessed of enormous wealth, often in extreme poverty, often triumphant on the ocean and often
forced to fly to the forests, their life was an ever- changing scene of advance and retreat,
of glory and disorder, of luxury and famine. Spain treated them as outlaws and pirates, while
other European powers publicly disowned them. They, on the other hand, maintained that injustice
on the part of Spain first forced them to take up arms in self- defence, and that, whilst they
kept inviolable the laws which they had framed for their own common benefit and protection,
they had a right to consider as foes those who treated them as outlaws. Under this impression
they drew the sword and rushed on as though in lawful war, and divided the spoils of victory
in the scale of justice.

After leaving St. Thomas's, a severe tertian ague every now and then kept putting the traveller
in mind that his shattered frame, "starting and shivering in the inconstant blast, meagre and
pale, the ghost of what it was," wanted repairs. Three years elapsed after arriving in England
before the ague took its final leave of him.

During that time, several experiments were made with the wourali poison. In London an ass was
inoculated with it and died in twelve minutes. The poison was inserted into the leg of another,
round which a bandage had been previously tied a little above the place where the wourali was
introduced. He walked about as usual and ate his food as though all were right. After an hour
had elapsed the bandage was untied, and ten minutes after death overtook him.

A she-ass received the wourali poison in the shoulder, and died apparently in ten minutes.
An incision was then made in its windpipe and through it the lungs were regularly inflated
for two hours with a pair of bellows. Suspended animation returned. The ass held up her head
and looked around, but the inflating being discontinued she sunk once more in apparent death.
The artificial breathing was immediately recommenced, and continued without intermission for
two hours more. This saved the ass from final dissolution: she rose up and walked about; she
seemed neither in agitation nor in pain. The wound through which the poison entered was healed
without difficulty. Her constitution, however, was so severely affected that it was long a
doubt if ever she would be well again. She looked lean and sickly for above a year, but began
to mend the spring after, and by midsummer became fat and frisky.

The kind-hearted reader will rejoice on learning that Earl Percy, pitying her misfortunes,
sent her down from London to Walton Hall, near Wakefield. There she goes by the name of Wouralia.
Wouralia shall be sheltered from the wintry storm; and when summer comes she shall feed in
the finest pasture. No burden shall be placed upon her, and she shall end her days in peace.

For three revolving autumns, the ague-beaten wanderer never saw without a sigh the swallow
bend her flight towards warmer regions. He wished to go too, but could not for sickness had
enfeebled him, and prudence pointed out the folly of roving again too soon across the northern
tropic. To be sure, the Continent was now open, and change of air might prove beneficial, but
there was nothing very tempting in a trip across the Channel, and as for a tour through England!--England
has long ceased to be the land for adventures.

Don Quixote was always of opinion that this famous king did not die, but that he was changed
into a raven by enchantment and that the English are momentarily expecting his return. Be this
as it may, it is certain that when he reigned here all was harmony and joy. The browsing herds
passed from vale to vale, the swains sang from the bluebell-teeming groves, and nymphs, with
eglantine and roses in their neatly-braided hair, went hand in hand to the flowery mead to
weave garlands for their lambkins. If by chance some rude, uncivil fellow dared to molest them,
or attempted to throw thorns in their path, there was sure to be a knight-errant not far off
ready to rush forward in their defence. But alas! in these degenerate days it is not so. Should
a harmless cottage-maid wander out of the highway to pluck a primrose or two in the neighbouring
field, the haughty owner sternly bids her retire; and if a pitying swain hasten to escort her
back, he is perhaps seized by the gaunt house-dog ere he reach her!

Aeneas's route on the other side of Styx could not have been much worse than this, though,
by his account, when he got back to earth, it appears that he had fallen in with "Bellua Lernae,
horrendum stridens, flammisque, armata Chimaera."

Moreover, he had a sibyl to guide his steps; and as such a conductress nowadays could not be
got for love or money, it was judged most prudent to refrain from sauntering through this land
of freedom, and wait with patience the return of health. At last this long-looked-for, ever-welcome
stranger came.

SECOND JOURNEY

In the year 1816, two days before the vernal equinox, I sailed from Liverpool for Pernambuco,
in the southern hemisphere, on the coast of Brazil. There is little at this time of the year,
in the European part of the Atlantic, to engage the attention of the naturalist. As you go
down the Channel you see a few divers and gannets. The middle-sized gulls, with a black spot
at the end of the wings, attend you a little way into the Bay of Biscay. When it blows a hard
gale of wind the stormy petrel makes its appearance. While the sea runs mountains high, and
every wave threatens destruction to the labouring vessel, this little harbinger of storms is
seen enjoying itself, on rapid pinion, up and down the roaring billows. When the storm is over
it appears no more. It is known to every English sailor by the name of Mother Carey's chicken.
It must have been hatched in Aeolus's cave, amongst a clutch of squalls and tempests, for whenever
they get out upon the ocean it always contrives to be of the party.

Though the calms and storms and adverse winds in these latitudes are vexatious, still, when
you reach the trade-winds, you are amply repaid for all disappointments and inconveniences.
The trade-winds prevail about thirty degrees on each side of the equator. This part of the
ocean may be called the Elysian Fields of Neptune's empire; and the torrid zone, notwithstanding
Ovid's remark, "non est habitabilis aestu," is rendered healthy and pleasant by these gently-blowing
breezes. The ship glides smoothly on, and you soon find yourself within the northern tropic.
When you are on it Cancer is just over your head, and betwixt him and Capricorn is the high-road
of the Zodiac, forty-seven degrees wide, famous for Phaeton's misadventure. His father begged
and entreated him not to take it into his head to drive parallel to the five zones, but to
mind and keep on the turnpike which runs obliquely across the equator. "There you will distinctly
see," said he, "the ruts of my chariot wheels, 'manifesta rotae vestigia cernes.'" "But," added
he, "even suppose you keep on it, and avoid the by-roads, nevertheless, my dear boy, believe
me, you will be most sadly put to your shifts; 'ardua prima via est,' the first part of the
road is confoundedly steep! 'ultima via prona est,' and after that, it is all down- hill! Moreover,
'per insidias iter est, formasque ferarum,' the road is full of nooses and bull-dogs, 'Haemoniosque
arcus,' and spring guns, 'saevaque circuitu, curvantem brachia longo, Scorpio,' and steel traps
of uncommon size and shape." These were nothing in the eyes of Phaeton; go he would, so off
he set, full speed, four in hand. He had a tough drive of it, and after doing a prodigious
deal of mischief, very luckily for the world he got thrown out of the box, and tumbled into
the River Po.

Some of our modern bloods have been shallow enough to try to ape this poor empty-headed coachman
on a little scale, making London their Zodiac. Well for them if tradesmen's bills and other
trivial perplexities have not caused them to be thrown into the King's Bench.

The productions of the torrid zone are uncommonly grand. Its plains, its swamps, its savannas
and forests abound with the largest serpents and wild beasts; and its trees are the habitation
of the most beautiful of the feathered race. While the traveller in the Old World is astonished
at the elephant, the tiger, the lion and rhinoceros, he who wanders through the torrid regions
of the New is lost in admiration at the cotingas, the toucans, the humming-birds and aras.

The ocean likewise swarms with curiosities. Probably the flying-fish may be considered as one
of the most singular. This little scaled inhabitant of water and air seems to have been more
favoured than the rest of its finny brethren. It can rise out of the waves and on wing visit
the domain of the birds.

After flying two or three hundred yards, the intense heat of the sun has dried its pellucid
wings, and it is obliged to wet them in order to continue its flight. It just drops into the
ocean for a moment, and then rises again and flies on; and then descends to remoisten them,
and then up again into the air; thus passing its life, sometimes wet, sometimes dry, sometimes
in sunshine, and sometimes in the pale moon's nightly beam, as pleasure dictates or as need
requires. The additional assistance of wings is not thrown away upon it. It has full occupation
both for fins and wings, as its life is in perpetual danger.

The bonito and albicore chase it day and night, but the dolphin is its worst and swiftest foe.
If it escape into the air, the dolphin pushes on with proportional velocity beneath, and is
ready to snap it up the moment it descends to wet its wings.

You will often see above one hundred of these little marine aerial fugitives on the wing at
once. They appear to use every exertion to prolong their flight, but vain are all their efforts,
for when the last drop of water on their wings is dried up their flight is at an end, and they
must drop into the ocean. Some are instantly devoured by their merciless pursuer, part escape
by swimming, and others get out again as quick as possible, and trust once more to their wings.

It often happens that this unfortunate little creature, after alternate dips and flights, finding
all its exertions of no avail, at last drops on board the vessel, verifying the old remark:

  Incidit in Scyllam, cupiens vitare Charybdim.

There, stunned by the fall, it beats the deck with its tail and dies. When eating it you would
take it for a fresh herring. The largest measure from fourteen to fifteen inches in length.
The dolphin, after pursuing it to the ship, sometimes forfeits his own life.

In days of yore the musician used to play in softest, sweetest strain, and then take an airing
amongst the dolphins: "inter delphinas Arion." But nowadays our tars have quite capsized the
custom, and instead of riding ashore on the dolphin, they invite the dolphin aboard. While
he is darting and playing around the vessel a sailor goes out to the spritsail yard-arm, and
with a long staff, leaded at one end, and armed at the other with five barbed spikes, he heaves
it at him. If successful in his aim there is a fresh mess for all hands. The dying dolphin
affords a superb and brilliant sight:

  Mille trahit moriens, adverse sole colores.

All the colours of the rainbow pass and repass in rapid succession over his body, till the
dark hand of death closes the scene.

From the Cape de Verd Islands to the coast of Brazil you see several different kinds of gulls,
which, probably, are bred in the Island of St. Paul. Sometimes the large bird called the frigate
pelican soars majestically over the vessel, and the tropic bird comes near enough to let you
have a fair view of the long feathers in his tail. On the line, when it is calm, sharks of
a tremendous size make their appearance. They are descried from the ship by means of the dorsal
fin, which is above the water.

On entering the Bay of Pernambuco, the frigate pelican is seen watching the shoals of fish
from a prodigious height. It seldom descends without a successful attack on its numerous prey
below.

As you approach the shore the view is charming. The hills are clothed with wood, gradually
rising towards the interior, none of them of any considerable height. A singular reef of rocks
runs parallel to the coast and forms the harbour of Pernambuco. The vessels are moored betwixt
it and the town, safe from every storm. You enter the harbour through a very narrow passage,
close by a fort built on the reef. The hill of Olinda, studded with houses and convents, is
on your right-hand, and an island thickly planted with cocoa-nut trees adds considerably to
the scene on your left. There are two strong forts on the isthmus betwixt Olinda and Pernambuco,
and a pillar midway to aid the pilot.

Pernambuco probably contains upwards of fifty thousand souls. It stands on a flat, and is divided
into three parts: a peninsula, an island and the continent. Though within a few degrees of
the line, its climate is remarkably salubrious and rendered almost temperate by the refreshing
sea- breeze. Had art and judgment contributed their portion to its natural advantages, Pernambuco
at this day would have been a stately ornament to the coast of Brazil. On viewing it, it will
strike you that everyone has built his house entirely for himself, and deprived public convenience
of the little claim she had a right to put in. You would wish that this city, so famous for
its harbour, so happy in its climate and so well situated for commerce, could have risen under
the flag of Dido, in lieu of that of Braganza.

As you walk down the streets the appearance of the houses is not much in their favour. Some
of them are very high, and some very low; some newly whitewashed, and others stained and mouldy
and neglected, as though they had no owner.

The balconies, too, are of a dark and gloomy appearance. They are not, in general, open as
in most tropical cities, but grated like a farmer's dairy- window, though somewhat closer.

There is a lamentable want of cleanliness in the streets. The impurities from the houses and
the accumulation of litter from the beasts of burden are unpleasant sights to the passing stranger.
He laments the want of a police as he goes along, and when the wind begins to blow his nose
and eyes are too often exposed to a cloud of very unsavoury dust.

When you view the port of Pernambuco, full of ships of all nations; when you know that the
richest commodities of Europe, Africa and Asia are brought to it; when you see immense quantities
of cotton, dye-wood and the choicest fruits pouring into the town, you are apt to wonder at
the little attention these people pay to the common comforts which one always expects to find
in a large and opulent city. However, if the inhabitants are satisfied, there is nothing more
to be said. Should they ever be convinced that inconveniences exist, and that nuisances are
too frequent, the remedy is in their own hands. At present, certainly, they seem perfectly
regardless of them; and the Captain-General of Pernambuco walks through the streets with as
apparent content and composure as an English statesman would proceed down Charing Cross. Custom
reconciles everything. In a week or two the stranger himself begins to feel less the things
which annoyed him so much upon his first arrival, and after a few months' residence he thinks
no more about them, while he is partaking of the hospitality and enjoying the elegance and
splendour within doors in this great city.

Close by the river-side stands what is called the palace of the Captain- General of Pernambuco.
Its form and appearance altogether strike the traveller that it was never intended for the
use it is at present put to.

Reader, throw a veil over thy recollection for a little while, and forget the cruel, unjust
and unmerited censures thou hast heard against an unoffending order. This palace was once the
Jesuits' college, and originally built by those charitable fathers. Ask the aged and respectable
inhabitants of Pernambuco, and they will tell thee that the destruction of the Society of Jesus
was a terrible disaster to the public, and its consequences severely felt to the present day.

When Pombal took the reins of power into his own hands, virtue and learning beamed bright within
the college walls. Public catechism to the children, and religious instruction to all, flowed
daily from the mouths of its venerable priests.

They were loved, revered and respected throughout the whole town. The illuminating philosophers
of the day had sworn to exterminate Christian knowledge, and the college of Pernambuco was
doomed to founder in the general storm. To the long-lasting sorrow and disgrace of Portugal,
the philosophers blinded her king and flattered her prime minister. Pombal was exactly the
tool these sappers of every public and private virtue wanted. He had the naked sword of power
in his own hand, and his heart was hard as flint. He struck a mortal blow and the Society of
Jesus, throughout the Portuguese dominions, was no more.

One morning all the fathers of the college in Pernambuco, some of them very old and feeble,
were suddenly ordered into the refectory. They had notice beforehand of the fatal storm, in
pity, from the governor, but not one of them abandoned his charge. They had done their duty
and had nothing to fear. They bowed with resignation to the will of Heaven. As soon as they
had all reached the refectory they were there locked up, and never more did they see their
rooms, their friends, their scholars, or acquaintance. In the dead of the following night a
strong guard of soldiers literally drove them through the streets to the water's edge. They
were then conveyed in boats aboard a ship and steered for Bahia. Those who survived the barbarous
treatment they experienced from Pombal's creatures, were at last ordered to Lisbon. The college
of Pernambuco was plundered, and some time after an elephant was kept there.

Thus the arbitrary hand of power, in one night, smote and swept away the sciences: to which
succeeded the low vulgar buffoonery of a showman. Virgil and Cicero made way for a wild beast
from Angola! and now a guard is on duty at the very gate where, in times long past, the poor
were daily fed!

Trust not, kind reader, to the envious remarks which their enemies have scattered far and near;
believe not the stories of those who have had a hand in the sad tragedy. Go to Brazil, and
see with thine own eyes the effect of Pombal's short-sighted policy. There vice reigns triumphant
and learning is at its lowest ebb. Neither is this to be wondered at. Destroy the compass,
and will the vessel find her far-distant port? Will the flock keep together, and escape the
wolves, after the shepherds are all slain? The Brazilians were told that public education would
go on just as usual. They might have asked Government, who so able to instruct our youth as
those whose knowledge is proverbial? who so fit as those who enjoy our entire confidence? who
so worthy as those whose lives are irreproachable?

They soon found that those who succeeded the fathers of the Society of Jesus had neither their
manner nor their abilities. They had not made the instruction of youth their particular study.
Moreover, they entered on the field after a defeat where the officers had all been slain; where
the plan of the campaign was lost; where all was in sorrow and dismay. No exertions of theirs
could rally the dispersed, or skill prevent the fatal consequences. At the present day the
seminary of Olinda, in comparison with the former Jesuits' college, is only as the waning moon's
beam to the sun's meridian splendour.

When you visit the places where those learned fathers once flourished, and see with your own
eyes the evils their dissolution has caused; when you hear the inhabitants telling you how
good, how clever, how charitable they were; what will you think of our poet laureate for calling
them, in his History of Brazil, "Missioners whose zeal the most fanatical was directed by the
coolest policy"?

Was it fanatical to renounce the honours and comforts of this transitory life in order to gain
eternal glory in the next, by denying themselves, and taking up the cross? Was it fanatical
to preach salvation to innumerable wild hordes of Americans? to clothe the naked? to encourage
the repenting sinner? to aid the dying Christian? The fathers of the Society of Jesus did all
this. And for this their zeal is pronounced to be the most fanatical, directed by the coolest
policy. It will puzzle many a clear brain to comprehend how it is possible, in the nature of
things, that zeal the most fanatical should be directed by the coolest policy. Ah, Mr. Laureate,
Mr. Laureate, that "quidlibet audendi" of yours may now and then gild the poet at the same
time that it makes the historian cut a sorry figure!

Could Father Nobrega rise from the tomb, he would thus address you: "Ungrateful Englishman,
you have drawn a great part of your information from the writings of the Society of Jesus,
and in return you attempt to stain its character by telling your countrymen that 'we taught
the idolatry we believed'! In speaking of me, you say it was my happy fortune to be stationed
in a country where none but the good principles of my order were called into action. Ungenerous
laureate, the narrow policy of the times has kept your countrymen in the dark with regard to
the true character of the Society of Jesus; and you draw the bandage still tighter over their
eyes by a malicious insinuation. I lived and taught and died in Brazil, where you state that
none but the good principles of my order were called into action, and still, in most absolute
contradiction to this, you remark we believed the idolatry we taught in Brazil. Thus we brought
none but good principles into action, and still taught idolatry!

"Again, you state there is no individual to whose talents Brazil is so greatly and permanently
indebted as mine, and that I must be regarded as the founder of that system so successfully
pursued by the Jesuits in Paraguay: a system productive of as much good as is compatible with
pious fraud. Thus you make me, at one and the same time, a teacher of none but good principles,
and a teacher of idolatry, and a believer in idolatry, and still the founder of a system for
which Brazil is greatly and permanently indebted to me, though, by the by, the system was only
productive of as much good as is compatible with pious fraud!

"What means all this? After reading such incomparable nonsense, should your countrymen wish
to be properly informed concerning the Society of Jesus, there are in England documents enough
to show that the system of the Jesuits was a system of Christian charity towards their fellow-creatures
administered in a manner which human prudence judged best calculated to ensure success; and
that the idolatry which you uncharitably affirm they taught was really and truly the very same
faith which the Catholic Church taught for centuries in England, which she still teaches to
those who wish to hear her, and which she will continue to teach, pure and unspotted, till
time shall be no more."

The environs of Pernambuco are very pretty. You see country houses in all directions, and the
appearance of here and there a sugar-plantation enriches the scenery. Palm-trees, cocoanut-trees,
orange and lemon groves, and all the different fruits peculiar to Brazil, are here in the greatest
abundance.

At Olinda there is a national botanical garden: it wants space, produce and improvement. The
forests, which are several leagues off, abound with birds, beasts, insects and serpents. Besides
a brilliant plumage, many of the birds have a very fine song. The troupiale, noted for its
rich colours, sings delightfully in the environs of Pernambuco. The red-headed finch, larger
than the European sparrow, pours forth a sweet and varied strain, in company with two species
of wrens, a little before daylight. There are also several species of the thrush, which have
a song somewhat different from that of the European thrush; and two species of the linnet,
whose strain is so soft and sweet that it dooms them to captivity in the houses. A bird called
here sangre-do-buey, blood of the ox, cannot fail to engage your attention: he is of the passerine
tribe, and very common about the houses; the wings and tail are black and every other part
of the body a flaming red. In Guiana there is a species exactly the same as this in shape,
note and economy, but differing in colour, its whole body being like black velvet; on its breast
a tinge of red appears through the black. Thus Nature has ordered this little tangara to put
on mourning to the north of the line and wear scarlet to the south of it.

For three months in the year the environs of Pernambuco are animated beyond description. From
November to March the weather is particularly fine; then it is that rich and poor, young and
old, foreigners and natives, all issue from the city to enjoy the country till Lent approaches,
when back they hie them. Villages and hamlets, where nothing before but rags was seen, now
shine in all the elegance of dress; every house, every room, every shed become eligible places
for those whom nothing but extreme necessity could have forced to live there a few weeks ago:
some join in the merry dance, others saunter up and down the orange groves; and towards evening
the roads become a moving scene of silk and jewels. The gaming-tables have constant visitors:
there thousands are daily and nightly lost and won--parties even sit down to try their luck
round the outside of the door as well as in the room:

  Vestibulum ante ipsum primisque in faucibus aulae
  Luctus et ultrices, posucre sedilia curae.

About six or seven miles from Pernambuco stands a pretty little village called Monteiro. The
river runs close by it, and its rural beauties seem to surpass all others in the neighbourhood.
There the Captain-General of Pernambuco resides during this time of merriment and joy.

The traveller who allots a portion of his time to peep at his fellow- creatures in their relaxations,
and accustoms himself to read their several little histories in their looks and gestures as
he goes musing on, may have full occupation for an hour or two every day at this season amid
the variegated scenes around the pretty village of Monteiro. In the evening groups sitting
at the door, he may sometimes see with a sigh how wealth and the prince's favour cause a booby
to pass for a Solon, and be reverenced as such, while perhaps a poor neglected Camoens stands
silent at a distance, awed by the dazzling glare of wealth and power. Retired from the public
road he may see poor Maria sitting under a palm-tree, with her elbow in her lap and her head
leaning on one side within her hand, weeping over her forbidden bans. And as he moves on "with
wandering step and slow," he may hear a broken-hearted nymph ask her faithless swain:

  How could you say my face was fair,
    And yet that face forsake?
  How could you win my virgin heart,
    Yet leave that heart to break?

One afternoon, in an unfrequented part not far from Monteiro, these adventures were near being
brought to a speedy and a final close: six or seven blackbirds, with a white spot betwixt the
shoulders, were making a noise and passing to and fro on the lower branches of a tree in an
abandoned, weed-grown orange-orchard. In the long grass underneath the tree apparently a pale
green grasshopper was fluttering, as though it had got entangled in it. When you once fancy
that the thing you are looking at is really what you take it for, the more you look at it the
more you are convinced it is so. In the present case this was a grasshopper beyond all doubt,
and nothing more remained to be done but to wait in patience till it had settled, in order
that you might run no risk of breaking its legs in attempting to lay hold of it while it was
fluttering--it still kept fluttering; and having quietly approached it, intending to make sure
of it --behold, the head of a large rattlesnake appeared in the grass close by: an instantaneous
spring backwards prevented fatal consequences. What had been taken for a grasshopper was, in
fact, the elevated rattle of the snake in the act of announcing that he was quite prepared,
though unwilling, to make a sure and deadly spring. He shortly after passed slowly from under
the orange-tree to the neighbouring wood on the side of a hill: as he moved over a place bare
of grass and weeds he appeared to be about eight feet long; it was he who had engaged the attention
of the birds and made them heedless of danger from another quarter: they flew away on his retiring--one
alone left his little life in the air, destined to become a specimen, mute and motionless,
for the inspection of the curious in a far distant clime.

It was now the rainy season. The birds were moulting--fifty-eight specimens of the handsomest
of them in the neighbourhood of Pernambuco had been collected; and it was time to proceed elsewhere.
The conveyance to the interior was by horses, and this mode, together with the heavy rains,
would expose preserved specimens to almost certain damage. The journey to Maranham by land
would take at least forty days. The route was not wild enough to engage the attention of an
explorer, or civilised enough to afford common comforts to a traveller. By sea there were no
opportunities, except slave-ships. As the transporting poor negroes from port to port for sale
pays well in Brazil, the ships' decks are crowded with them. This would not do.

Excuse here, benevolent reader, a small tribute of gratitude to an Irish family whose urbanity
and goodness have long gained it the esteem and respect of all ranks in Pernambuco. The kindness
and attention I received from Dennis Kearney, Esq., and his amiable lady will be remembered
with gratitude to my dying day.

After wishing farewell to this hospitable family, I embarked on board a Portuguese brig, with
poor accommodations, for Cayenne in Guiana. The most eligible bedroom was the top of a hen-coop
on deck. Even here an unsavoury little beast, called bug, was neither shy nor deficient in
appetite.

The Portuguese seamen are famed for catching fish. One evening, under the line, four sharks
made their appearance in the wake of the vessel. The sailors caught them all.

On the fourteenth day after leaving Pernambuco, the brig cast anchor off the Island of Cayenne.
The entrance is beautiful. To windward, not far off, there are two bold wooded islands called
the Father and Mother, and near them are others, their children, smaller, though as beautiful
as their parents. Another is seen a long way to leeward of the family, and seems as if it had
strayed from home and cannot find its way back. The French call it "l'enfant perdu." As you
pass the islands the stately hills on the main, ornamented with ever-verdant foliage, show
you that this is by far the sublimest scenery on the sea-coast from the Amazons to the Oroonoque.
On casting your eye towards Dutch Guiana you will see that the mountains become unconnected
and few in number, and long before you reach Surinam the Atlantic wave washes a flat and muddy
shore.

Considerably to windward of Cayenne, and about twelve leagues from land, stands a stately and
towering rock called the Constable. As nothing grows on it to tempt greedy and aspiring man
to claim it as his own, the sea-fowl rest and raise their offspring there. The bird called
the frigate is ever soaring round its rugged summit. Hither the phaeton bends his rapid flight,
and flocks of rosy flamingos here defy the fowler's cunning. All along the coast, opposite
the Constable, and indeed on every uncultivated part of it to windward and leeward, are seen
innumerable quantities of snow-white egrets, scarlet curlews, spoonbills and flamingos.

Cayenne is capable of being a noble and productive colony. At present it is thought to be the
poorest on the coast of Guiana. Its estates are too much separated one from the other by immense
tracts of forest; and the revolutionary war, like a cold eastern wind, has chilled their zeal
and blasted their best expectations.

The clove-tree, the cinnamon, pepper and nutmeg, and many other choice spices and fruits of
the Eastern and Asiatic regions, produce abundantly in Cayenne.

The town itself is prettily laid out, and was once well fortified. They tell you it might easily
have been defended against the invading force of the two united nations; but Victor Hugues,
its governor, ordered the tri- coloured flag to be struck; and ever since that day the standard
of Braganza has waved on the ramparts of Cayenne.

He who has received humiliations from the hand of this haughty, iron- hearted governor may
see him now, in Cayenne, stripped of all his revolutionary honours, broken down and ruined,
and under arrest in his own house. He has four accomplished daughters, respected by the whole
town. Towards the close of day, when the sun's rays are no longer oppressive, these much-pitied
ladies are seen walking up and down the balcony with their aged parent, trying, by their kind
and filial attention, to remove the settled gloom from his too guilty brow.

This was not the time for a traveller to enjoy Cayenne. The hospitality of the inhabitants
was the same as ever, but they had lost their wonted gaiety in public, and the stranger might
read in their countenances, as the recollection of recent humiliations and misfortunes every
now and then kept breaking in upon them, that they were still in sorrow for their fallen country:
the victorious hostile cannon of Waterloo still sounded in their ears: their emperor was a
prisoner amongst the hideous rocks of St. Helena; and many a Frenchman who had fought and bled
for France was now amongst them begging for a little support to prolong a life which would
be forfeited on the parent soil. To add another handful to the cypress and wormwood already
scattered amongst these polite colonists, they had just received orders from the Court of Janeiro
to put on deep mourning for six months, and half-mourning for as many more, on account of the
death of the queen of Portugal.

About a day's journey in the interior is the celebrated national plantation. This spot was
judiciously chosen, for it is out of the reach of enemies' cruisers. It is called La Gabrielle.
No plantation in the Western world can vie with La Gabrielle. Its spices are of the choicest
kind, its soil particularly favourable to them, its arrangements beautiful, and its directeur,
Monsieur Martin, a botanist of first-rate abilities. This indefatigable naturalist ranged through
the East, under a royal commission, in quest of botanical knowledge; and during his stay in
the Western regions has sent over to Europe from twenty to twenty-five thousand specimens in
botany and zoology. La Gabrielle is on a far-extending range of woody hills. Figure to yourself
a hill in the shape of a bowl reversed, with the buildings on the top of it, and you will have
an idea of the appearance of La Gabrielle. You approach the house through a noble avenue, five
hundred toises long, of the choicest tropical fruit-trees, planted with the greatest care and
judgment; and should you chance to stray through it, after sunset, when the clove-trees are
in blossom, you would fancy yourself in the Idalian groves or near the banks of the Nile, where
they were burning the finest incense as the queen of Egypt passed.

On La Gabrielle there are twenty-two thousand clove-trees in full bearing. They are planted
thirty feet asunder. Their lower branches touch the ground. In general the trees are topped
at five and twenty feet high, though you will see some here towering up above sixty. The black
pepper, the cinnamon and nutmeg are also in great abundance here, and very productive.

While the stranger views the spicy groves of La Gabrielle, and tastes the most delicious fruits
which have been originally imported hither from all parts of the tropical world, he will thank
the Government which has supported, and admire the talents of the gentleman who has raised
to its present grandeur, this noble collection of useful fruits. There is a large nursery attached
to La Gabrielle where plants of all the different species are raised and distributed gratis
to those colonists who wish to cultivate them.

Not far from the banks of the River Oyapoc, to windward of Cayenne, is a mountain which contains
an immense cavern. Here the cock-of-the-rock is plentiful. He is about the size of a fantail
pigeon, his colour a bright orange and his wings and tail appear as though fringed; his head
is ornamented with a superb double-feathery crest edged with purple. He passes the day amid
gloomy damps and silence, and only issues out for food a short time at sunrise and sunset.
He is of the gallinaceous tribe. The South- American Spaniards call him "Gallo del Rio Negro"
(Cock of the Black River), and suppose that he is only to be met with in the vicinity of that
far-inland stream; but he is common in the interior of Demerara, amongst the huge rocks in
the forests of Macoushia, and he has been shot south of the line, in the captainship of Para.

The bird called by Buffon grand gobe-mouche has never been found in Demerara, although very
common in Cayenne. He is not quite so large as the jackdaw, and is entirely black, except a
large spot under the throat, which is a glossy purple.

You may easily sail from Cayenne to the River Surinam in two days. Its capital, Paramaribo,
is handsome, rich and populous: hitherto it has been considered by far the finest town in Guiana,
but probably the time is not far off when the capital of Demerara may claim the prize of superiority.
You may enter a creek above Paramaribo and travel through the interior of Surinam till you
come to the Nicari, which is close to the large River Coryntin. When you have passed this river
there is a good public road to New Amsterdam, the capital of Berbice.

On viewing New Amsterdam, it will immediately strike you that something or other has intervened
to prevent its arriving at that state of wealth and consequence for which its original plan
shows it was once intended. What has caused this stop in its progress to the rank of a fine
and populous city remains for those to find out who are interested in it; certain it is that
New Amsterdam has been languid for some years, and now the tide of commerce seems ebbing fast
from the shores of Berbice.

Gay and blooming is the sister colony of Demerara. Perhaps, kind reader, thou hast not forgot
that it was from Stabroek, the capital of Demerara, that the adventurer set out, some years
ago, to reach the Portuguese frontier-fort and collect the wourali poison. It was not intended,
when this second sally was planned in England, to have visited Stabroek again by the route
here described. The plan was to have ascended the Amazons from Para and got into the Rio Negro,
and from thence to have returned towards the source of the Essequibo, in order to examine the
crystal mountains and look once more for Lake Parima, or the White Sea; but on arriving at
Cayenne the current was running with such amazing rapidity to leeward that a Portuguese sloop,
which had been beating up towards Para for four weeks, was then only half-way. Finding, therefore,
that a beat to the Amazons would be long, tedious and even uncertain, and aware that the season
for procuring birds in fine plumage had already set in, I left Cayenne in an American ship
for Paramaribo, went through the interior to the Coryntin, stopped a few days in New Amsterdam,
and proceeded to Demerara. If, gentle reader, thy patience be not already worn out, and thy
eyes half-closed in slumber by perusing the dull adventures of this second sally, perhaps thou
wilt pardon a line or two on Demerara; and then we will retire to its forests to collect and
examine the economy of its most rare and beautiful birds, and give the world a new mode of
preserving them.

Stabroek, the capital of Demerara, has been rapidly increasing for some years back; and if
prosperity go hand in hand with the present enterprising spirit, Stabroek, ere long, will be
of the first colonial consideration. It stands on the eastern bank at the mouth of the Demerara,
and enjoys all the advantages of the refreshing sea-breeze; the streets are spacious, well
bricked and elevated, the trenches clean, the bridges excellent, and the houses handsome. Almost
every commodity and luxury of London may be bought in the shops at Stabroek: its market wants
better regulations. The hotels are commodious, clean and well-attended. Demerara boasts as
fine and well- disciplined militia as any colony in the Western world.

The court of justice, where in times of old the bandage was easily removed from the eyes of
the goddess and her scales thrown out of equilibrium, now rises in dignity under the firmness,
talents and urbanity of Mr. President Rough.

The plantations have an appearance of high cultivation; a tolerable idea may be formed of their
value when you know that last year Demerara numbered 72,999 slaves. They made above 44,000,000
pounds of sugar, near 2,000,000 gallons of rum, above 11,000,000 pounds of coffee, and 3,819,512
pounds of cotton; the receipt into the public chest was 553,956 guilders; the public expenditure
451,603 guilders.

Slavery can never be defended. He whose heart is not of iron can never wish to be able to defend
it: while he heaves a sigh for the poor negro in captivity, he wishes from his soul that the
traffic had been stifled in its birth; but unfortunately the Governments of Europe nourished
it, and now that they are exerting themselves to do away the evil, and ensure liberty to the
sons of Africa, the situation of the plantation-slaves is depicted as truly deplorable and
their condition wretched. It is not so. A Briton's heart, proverbially kind and generous, is
not changed by climate or its streams of compassion dried up by the scorching heat of a Demerara
sun: he cheers his negroes in labour, comforts them in sickness, is kind to them in old age,
and never forgets that they are his fellow-creatures.

Instances of cruelty and depravity certainly occur here as well as all the world over, but
the edicts of the colonial Government are well calculated to prevent them, and the British
planter, except here and there one, feels for the wrongs done to a poor ill-treated slave,
and shows that his heart grieves for him by causing immediate redress and preventing a repetition.

Long may ye flourish, peaceful and liberal inhabitants of Demerara. Your doors are ever open
to harbour the harbourless; your purses never shut to the wants of the distressed: many a ruined
fugitive from the Oroonoque will bless your kindness to him in the hour of need, when flying
from the woes of civil discord, without food or raiment, he begged for shelter underneath your
roof. The poor sufferer in Trinidad who lost his all in the devouring flames will remember
your charity to his latest moments. The traveller, as he leaves your port, casts a longing,
lingering look behind: your attentions, your hospitality, your pleasantry and mirth are uppermost
in his thoughts; your prosperity is close to his heart. Let us now, gentle reader, retire from
the busy scenes of man and journey on towards the wilds in quest of the feathered tribe.

Leave behind you your high-seasoned dishes, your wines and your delicacies: carry nothing but
what is necessary for your own comfort and the object in view, and depend upon the skill of
an Indian, or your own, for fish and game. A sheet about twelve feet long, ten wide, painted,
and with loop- holes on each side, will be of great service: in a few minutes you can suspend
it betwixt two trees in the shape of a roof. Under this, in your hammock, you may defy the
pelting shower, and sleep heedless of the dews of night. A hat, a shirt and a light pair of
trousers will be all the raiment you require. Custom will soon teach you to tread lightly and
barefoot on the little inequalities of the ground, and show you how to pass on unwounded amid
the mantling briers.

Snakes, in these wilds, are certainly an annoyance, though perhaps more in imagination than
reality, for you must recollect that the serpent is never the first to offend: his poisonous
fang was not given him for conquest--he never inflicts a wound with it but to defend existence.
Provided you walk cautiously and do not absolutely touch him, you may pass in safety close
by him. As he is often coiled up on the ground, and amongst the branches of the trees above
you, a degree of circumspection is necessary lest you unwarily disturb him.

Tigers are too few, and too apt to fly before the noble face of man, to require a moment of
your attention.

The bite of the most noxious of the insects, at the very worst, only causes a transient fever
with a degree of pain more or less.

Birds in general, with a few exceptions, are not common in the very remote parts of the forest.
The sides of rivers, lakes and creeks, the borders of savannas, the old abandoned habitations
of Indians and wood-cutters, seem to be their favourite haunts.

Though least in size, the glittering mantle of the humming-bird entitles it to the first place
in the list of the birds of the new world. It may truly be called the bird of paradise: and
had it existed in the Old World, it would have claimed the title instead of the bird which
has now the honour to bear it. See it darting through the air almost as quick as thought!--now
it is within a yard of your face!--in an instant gone!--now it flutters from flower to flower
to sip the silver dew--it is now a ruby--now a topaz --now an emerald--now all burnished gold!
It would be arrogant to pretend to describe this winged gem of Nature after Buffon's elegant
description of it.

Cayenne and Demerara produce the same hummingbirds. Perhaps you would wish to know something
of their haunts. Chiefly in the months of July and August, the tree called bois immortel, very
common in Demerara, bears abundance of red blossom which stays on the tree for some weeks;
then it is that most of the different species of humming-birds are very plentiful. The wild
red sage is also their favourite shrub, and they buzz like bees round the blossom of the wallaba
tree. Indeed, there is scarce a flower in the interior, or on the sea-coast, but what receives
frequent visits from one or other of the species.

On entering the forests, on the rising land in the interior, the blue and green, the smallest
brown, no bigger than the humble-bee, with two long feathers in the tail, and the little forked-tail
purple-throated humming- birds, glitter before you in ever-changing attitudes. One species
alone never shows his beauty to the sun: and were it not for his lovely shining colours, you
might almost be tempted to class him with the goat-suckers, on account of his habits. He is
the largest of all the humming-birds, and is all red and changing gold-green, except the head,
which is black. He has two long feathers in the tail which cross each other, and these have
gained him the name of karabimiti, or ara humming-bird, from the Indians. You never find him
on the sea-coast, or where the river is salt, or in the heart of the forest, unless fresh water
be there. He keeps close by the side of woody fresh-water rivers and dark and lonely creeks.
He leaves his retreat before sunrise to feed on the insects over the water; he returns to it
as soon as the sun's rays cause a glare of light, is sedentary all day long, and comes out
again for a short tune after sunset. He builds his nest on a twig over the water in the unfrequented
creeks: it looks like tanned cow-leather.

As you advance towards the mountains of Demerara other species of humming- birds present themselves
before you. It seems to be an erroneous opinion that the humming-bird lives entirely on honey-dew.
Almost every flower of the tropical climates contains insects of one kind or other. Now the
humming-bird is most busy about the flowers an hour or two after sunrise and after a shower
of rain, and it is just at this time that the insects come out to the edge of the flower in
order that the sun's rays may dry the nocturnal dew and rain which they have received. On opening
the stomach of the humming-bird dead insects are almost always found there.

Next to the humming-birds, the cotingas display the gayest plumage. They are of the order of
Passer, and you number five species betwixt the sea- coast and the rock Saba. Perhaps the scarlet
cotinga is the richest of the five, and is one of those birds which are found in the deepest
recesses of the forest. His crown is flaming red; to this abruptly succeeds a dark shining
brown, reaching half-way down the back: the remainder of the back, the rump and tail, the extremity
of which is edged with black, are a lively red; the belly is a somewhat lighter red; the breast
reddish-black; the wings brown. He has no song, is solitary, and utters a monotonous whistle
which sounds like "quet." He is fond of the seeds of the hitia-tree and those of the siloabali-
and bastard siloabali-trees, which ripen in December and continue on the trees for above two
months. He is found throughout the year in Demerara; still nothing is known of his incubation.
The Indians all agree in telling you that they have never seen his nest.

The purple-breasted cotinga has the throat and breast of a deep purple, the wings and tail
black, and all the rest of the body a most lovely shining blue.

The purple-throated cotinga has black wings and tail, and every other part a light and glossy
blue, save the throat, which is purple.

The pompadour cotinga is entirely purple, except his wings, which are white, their four first
feathers tipped with brown. The great coverts of the wings are stiff, narrow and pointed, being
shaped quite different from those of any other bird. When you are betwixt this bird and the
sun, in his flight, he appears uncommonly brilliant. He makes a hoarse noise which sounds like
"wallababa." Hence his name amongst the Indians.

None of these three cotingas have a song. They feed on the hitia, siloabali- and bastard siloabali-seeds,
the wild guava, the fig, and other fruit-trees of the forest. They are easily shot in these
trees during the months of December, January and part of February. The greater part of them
disappear after this, and probably retire far away to breed. Their nests have never been found
in Demerara.

The fifth species is the celebrated campanero of the Spaniards, called dara by the Indians,
and bell-bird by the English. He is about the size of the jay. His plumage is white as snow.
On his forehead rises a spiral tube nearly three inches long. It is jet black, dotted all over
with small white feathers. It has a communication with the palate, and when filled with air
looks like a spire; when empty it becomes pendulous. His note is loud and clear, like the sound
of a bell, and may be heard at the distance of three miles. In the midst of these extensive
wilds, generally on the dried top of an aged mora, almost out of gun-reach, you will see the
campanero. No sound or song from any of the winged inhabitants of the forest, not even the
clearly pronounced "Whip-poor-will" from the goat-sucker, cause such astonishment as the toll
of the campanero.

With many of the feathered race he pays the common tribute of a morning and an evening song;
and even when the meridian sun has shut in silence the mouths of almost the whole of animated
nature the campanero still cheers the forest. You hear his toll, and then a pause for a minute,
then another toll, and then a pause again, and then a toll, and again a pause. Then he is silent
for six or eight minutes, and then another toll, and so on. Acteon would stop in mid-chase,
Maria would defer her evening song, and Orpheus himself would drop his lute to listen to him,
so sweet, so novel and romantic is the toll of the pretty snow-white campanero. He is never
seen to feed with the other cotingas, nor is it known in what part of Guiana he makes his nest.

While the cotingas attract your attention by their superior plumage, the singular form of the
toucan makes a lasting impression on your memory. There are three species of toucans in Demerara,
and three diminutives, which may be called toucanets. The largest of the first species frequents
the mangrove trees on the sea-coast. He is never seen in the interior till you reach Macoushia,
where he is found in the neighbourhood of the River Tacatou. The other two species are very
common. They feed entirely on the fruits of the forest and, though of the pie kind, never kill
the young of other birds or touch carrion. The larger is called bouradi by the Indians (which
means nose), the other scirou. They seem partial to each other's company, and often resort
to the same feeding-tree and retire together to the same shady noon-day retreat. They are very
noisy in rainy weather at all hours of the day, and in fair weather at morn and eve. The sound
which the bouradi makes is like the clear yelping of a puppy-dog, and you fancy he says "pia-po-o-co,"
and thus the South-American Spaniards call him piapoco.

All the toucanets feed on the same trees on which the toucan feeds, and every species of this
family of enormous bill lays its eggs in the hollow trees. They are social, but not gregarious.
You may sometimes see eight or ten in company, and from this you would suppose they are gregarious;
but upon a closer examination you will find it has only been a dinner-party, which breaks up
and disperses towards roosting-time.

You will be at a loss to conjecture for what ends Nature has overloaded the head of this bird
with such an enormous bill. It cannot be for the offensive, as it has no need to wage war with
any of the tribes of animated nature, for its food is fruits and seeds, and those are in superabundance
throughout the whole year in the regions where the toucan is found. It can hardly be for the
defensive, as the toucan is preyed upon by no bird in South America and, were it obliged to
be at war, the texture of the bill is ill-adapted to give or receive blows, as you will see
in dissecting it. It cannot be for any particular protection to the tongue, as the tongue is
a perfect feather.

The flight of the toucan is by jerks: in the action of flying it seems incommoded by this huge
disproportioned feature, and the head seems as if bowed down to the earth by it against its
will. If the extraordinary form and size of the bill expose the toucan to ridicule, its colours
make it amends. Were a specimen of each species of the toucan presented to you, you would pronounce
the bill of the bouradi the most rich and beautiful: on the ridge of the upper mandible a broad
stripe of most lovely yellow extends from the head to the point; a stripe of the same breadth,
though somewhat deeper yellow, falls from it at right angles next the head down to the edge
of the mandible; then follows a black stripe, half as broad, falling at right angles from the
ridge and running narrower along the edge to within half an inch of the point. The rest of
the mandible is a deep bright red. The lower mandible has no yellow: its black and red are
distributed in the same manner as on the upper one, with this difference, that there is black
about an inch from the point. The stripe corresponding to the deep yellow stripe on the upper
mandible is sky-blue. It is worthy of remark that all these brilliant colours of the bill are
to be found in the plumage of the body and the bare skin round the eye.

All these colours, except the blue, are inherent in the horn: that part which appears blue
is in reality transparent white, and receives its colour from a thin piece of blue skin inside.
This superb bill fades in death, and in three or four days' time has quite lost its original
colours.

Till within these few years no idea of the true colours of the bill could be formed from the
stuffed toucans brought to Europe. About eight years ago, while eating a boiled toucan, the
thought struck me that the colours in the bill of a preserved specimen might be kept as bright
as those in life. A series of experiments proved this beyond a doubt. If you take your penknife
and cut away the roof of the upper mandible, you will find that the space betwixt it and the
outer shell contains a large collection of veins and small osseous fibres running in all directions
through the whole extent of the bill. Clear away all these with your knife, and you will come
to a substance more firm than skin, but of not so strong a texture as the horn itself. Cut
this away also, and behind it is discovered a thin and tender membrane: yellow where it has
touched the yellow part of the horn, blue where it has touched the red part, and black towards
the edge and point; when dried this thin and tender membrane becomes nearly black; as soon
as it is cut away nothing remains but the outer horn, red and yellow, and now become transparent.
The under mandible must undergo the same operation. Great care must be taken and the knife
used very cautiously when you are cutting through the different parts close to where the bill
joins on to the head: if you cut away too much the bill drops off; if you press too hard the
knife comes through the horn; if you leave too great a portion of the membrane it appears through
the horn and, by becoming black when dried, makes the horn appear black also, and has a bad
effect. Judgment, caution, skill and practice will ensure success.

You have now cleared the bill of all those bodies which are the cause of its apparent fading,
for, as has been said before, these bodies dry in death and become quite discoloured, and appear
so through the horn; and reviewing the bill in this state, you conclude that its former bright
colours are lost.

Something still remains to be done. You have rendered the bill transparent by the operation,
and that transparency must be done away to make it appear perfectly natural. Pound some clean
chalk and give it enough water till it be of the consistency of tar, add a proportion of gum-arabic
to make it adhesive, then take a camel-hair brush and give the inside of both mandibles a coat;
apply a second when the first is dry, then another, and a fourth to finish all. The gum-arabic
will prevent the chalk from cracking and falling off. If you remember, there is a little space
of transparent white in the lower mandible which originally appeared blue, but which became
transparent white as soon as the thin piece of blue skin was cut away: this must be painted
blue inside. When all this is completed the bill will please you: it will appear in its original
colours. Probably your own abilities will suggest a cleverer mode of operating than the one
here described. A small gouge would assist the penknife and render the operation less difficult.

The houtou ranks high in beauty amongst the birds of Demerara. His whole body is green, with
a bluish cast in the wings and tail; his crown, which he erects at pleasure, consists of black
in the centre, surrounded with lovely blue of two different shades; he has a triangular black
spot, edged with blue, behind the eye extending to the ear, and on his breast a sable tuft
consisting of nine feathers edged also with blue. This bird seems to suppose that its beauty
can be increased by trimming the tail, which undergoes the same operation as our hair in a
barber's shop, only with this difference, that it uses its own beak, which is serrated, in
lieu of a pair of scissors. As soon as his tail is full grown, he begins about an inch from
the extremity of the two longest feathers in it and cuts away the web on both sides of the
shaft, making a gap about an inch long. Both male and female adonise their tails in this manner,
which gives them a remarkable appearance amongst all other birds. While we consider the tail
of the houtou blemished and defective, were he to come amongst us he would probably consider
our heads, cropped and bald, in no better light. He who wishes to observe this handsome bird
in his native haunts must be in the forest at the morning's dawn. The houtou shuns the society
of man: the plantations and cultivated parts are too much disturbed to engage it to settle
there; the thick and gloomy forests are the places preferred by the solitary houtou.

In those far-extending wilds, about daybreak, you hear him articulate, in a distinct and mournful
tone, "houtou, houtou." Move cautious on to where the sound proceeds from, and you will see
him sitting in the underwood about a couple of yards from the ground, his tail moving up and
down every time he articulates "houtou." He lives on insects and the berries amongst the underwood,
and very rarely is seen in the lofty trees, except the bastard siloabali-tree, the fruit of
which is grateful to him. He makes no nest, but rears his young in a hole in the sand, generally
on the side of a hill.

While in quest of the houtou, you will now and then fall in with the jay of Guiana, called
by the Indians ibibirou. Its forehead is black, the rest of the head white, the throat and
breast like the English magpie; about an inch of the extremity of the tail is white, the other
part of it, together with the back and wings, a greyish changing purple; the belly is white.
There are generally six or eight of them in company: they are shy and garrulous, and tarry
a very short time in one place. They are never seen in the cultivated parts.

Through the whole extent of the forest, chiefly from sunrise till nine o'clock in the morning,
you hear a sound of "wow, wow, wow, wow." This is the bird called boclora by the Indians. It
is smaller than the common pigeon, and seems, in some measure, to partake of its nature: its
head and breast are blue; the back and rump somewhat resemble the colour on the peacock's neck;
its belly is a bright yellow. The legs are so very short that it always appears as if sitting
on the branch: it is as ill-adapted for walking as the swallow. Its neck, for above an inch
all round, is quite bare of feathers, but this deficiency is not seen, for it always sits with
its head drawn in upon its shoulders. It sometimes feeds with the cotingas on the guava- and
hitia-trees, but its chief nutriment seems to be insects, and, like most birds which follow
this prey, its chaps are well armed with bristles: it is found in Demerara at all times of
the year, and makes a nest resembling that of the stock-dove. This bird never takes long nights,
and when it crosses a river or creek it goes by long jerks.

The boclora is very unsuspicious, appearing quite heedless of danger: the report of a gun within
twenty yards will not cause it to leave the branch on which it is sitting, and you may often
approach it so near as almost to touch it with the end of your bow. Perhaps there is no bird
known whose feathers are so slightly fixed to the skin as those of the boclora. After shooting
it, if it touch a branch in its descent, or if it drop on hard ground, whole heaps of feathers
fall off: on this account it is extremely hard to procure a specimen for preservation. As soon
as the skin is dry in the preserved specimen the feathers become as well fixed as those in
any other bird.

Another species, larger than the boclora, attracts much of your notice in these wilds: it is
called cuia by the Indians, from the sound of its voice. Its habits are the same as those of
the boclora, but its colours different: its head, breast, back and rump are a shining, changing
green; its tail not quite so bright; a black bar runs across the tail towards the extremity,
and the outside feathers are partly white, as in the boclora; its belly is entirely vermilion,
a bar of white separating it from the green on the breast.

There are diminutives of both these birds: they have the same habits, with a somewhat different
plumage, and about half the size. Arrayed from head to tail in a robe of richest sable hue,
the bird called rice-bird loves spots cultivated by the hand of man. The woodcutter's house
on the hills in the interior, and the planter's habitation on the sea-coast, equally attract
this songless species of the order of pie, provided the Indian-corn be ripe there. He is nearly
of the jackdaw's size and makes his nest far away from the haunts of men. He may truly be called
a blackbird: independent of his plumage, his beak, inside and out, his legs, his toes and claws
are jet black.

Mankind, by clearing the ground and sowing a variety of seeds, induces many kinds of birds
to leave their native haunts and come and settle near him: their little depredations on his
seeds and fruits prove that it is the property, and not the proprietor, which has the attractions.

One bird, however, in Demerara is not actuated by selfish motives: this is the cassique. In
size he is larger than the starling: he courts the society of man, but disdains to live by
his labours. When Nature calls for support he repairs to the neighbouring forest, and there
partakes of the store of fruits and seeds which she has produced in abundance for her aerial
tribes. When his repast is over he returns to man, and pays the little tribute which he owes
him for his protection. He takes his station on a tree close to his house, and there, for hours
together, pours forth a succession of imitative notes. His own song is sweet, but very short.
If a toucan be yelping in the neighbourhood, he drops it, and imitates him. Then he will amuse
his protector with the cries of the different species of the woodpecker, and when the sheep
bleat he will distinctly answer them. Then comes his own song again; and if a puppy-dog or
a guinea-fowl interrupt him, he takes them off admirably, and by his different gestures during
the time you would conclude that he enjoys the sport.

The cassique is gregarious, and imitates any sound he hears with such exactness that he goes
by no other name than that of mocking bird amongst the colonists.

At breeding-time a number of these pretty choristers resort to a tree near the planter's house,
and from its outside branches weave their pendulous nests. So conscious do they seem that they
never give offence, and so little suspicious are they of receiving any injury from man, that
they will choose a tree within forty yards from his house, and occupy the branches so low down
that he may peep into the nests. A tree in Waratilla Creek affords a proof of this.

The proportions of the cassique are so fine that he may be said to be a model of symmetry in
ornithology. On each wing he has a bright yellow spot, and his rump, belly and half the tail
are of the same colour. All the rest of the body is black. His beak is the colour of sulphur,
but it fades in death, and requires the same operation as the bill of the toucan to make it
keep its colours. Up the rivers, in the interior, there is another cassique, nearly the same
size and of the same habits, though not gifted with its powers of imitation. Except in breeding-time,
you will see hundreds of them retiring to roost amongst the moca-moca-trees and low shrubs
on the banks of the Demerara, after you pass the first island. They are not common on the sea-coast.
The rump of this cassique is a flaming scarlet. All the rest of the body is a rich glossy black.
His bill is sulphur-colour. You may often see numbers of this species weaving their pendulous
nests on one side of a tree, while numbers of the other species are busy in forming theirs
on the opposite side of the same tree. Though such near neighbours, the females are never observed
to kick up a row or come to blows!

Another species of cassique, as large as a crow, is very common in the plantations. In the
morning he generally repairs to a large tree, and there, with his tail spread over his back
and shaking his lowered wings, he produces notes which, though they cannot be said to amount
to a song, still have something very sweet and pleasing in them. He makes his nest in the same
form as the other cassiques. It is above four feet long, and when you pass under the tree,
which often contains fifty or sixty of them, you cannot help stopping to admire them as they
wave to and fro, the sport of every storm and breeze. The rump is chestnut; ten feathers of
the tail are a fine yellow, the remaining two, which are the middle ones, are black, and an
inch shorter than the others. His bill is sulphur-colour; all the rest of the body black, with
here and there shades of brown. He has five or six long narrow black feathers on the back of
his head, which he erects at pleasure.

There is one more species of cassique in Demerara which always prefers the forests to the cultivated
parts. His economy is the same as that of the other cassiques. He is rather smaller than the
last described bird. His body is greenish, and his tail and rump paler than those of the former.
Half of his beak is red.

You would not be long in the forests of Demerara without noticing the woodpeckers. You meet
with them feeding at all hours of the day. Well may they do so. Were they to follow the example
of most of the other birds, and only feed in the morning and evening, they would be often on
short allowance, for they sometimes have to labour three or four hours at the tree before they
get to their food. The sound which the largest kind makes in hammering against the bark of
the tree is so loud that you would never suppose it to proceed from the efforts of a bird.
You would take it to be the woodman, with his axe, trying by a sturdy blow, often repeated,
whether the tree were sound or not. There are fourteen species here: the largest the size of
a magpie, the smallest no bigger than the wren. They are all beautiful, and the greater part
of them have their heads ornamented with a fine crest, movable at pleasure.

It is said, if you once give a dog a bad name, whether innocent or guilty, he never loses it.
It sticks close to him wherever he goes. He has many a kick and many a blow to bear on account
of it; and there is nobody to stand up for him. The woodpecker is little better off. The proprietors
of woods in Europe have long accused him of injuring their timber by boring holes in it and
letting in the water, which soon rots it. The colonists in America have the same complaint
against him. Had he the power of speech, which Ovid's birds possessed in days of yore, he could
soon make a defence: "Mighty lord of the woods," he would say to man, "why do you wrongfully
accuse me? Why do you hunt me up and down to death for an imaginary offence? I have never spoiled
a leaf of your property, much less your wood. Your merciless shot strikes me at the very time
I am doing you a service. But your shortsightedness will not let you see it, or your pride
is above examining closely the actions of so insignificant a little bird as I am. If there
be that spark of feeling in your breast which they say man possesses, or ought to possess,
above all other animals, do a poor injured creature a little kindness and watch me in your
woods only for one day. I never wound your healthy trees. I should perish for want in the attempt.
The sound bark would easily resist the force of my bill; and were I even to pierce through
it, there would be nothing inside that I could fancy or my stomach digest. I often visit them
it is true, but a knock or two convince me that I must go elsewhere for support; and were you
to listen attentively to the sound which my bill causes, you would know whether I am upon a
healthy or an unhealthy tree. Wood and bark are not my food. I live entirely upon the insects
which have already formed a lodgment in the distempered tree. When the sound informs me that
my prey is there, I labour for hours together till I get at it, and by consuming it for my
own support, I prevent its further depredations in that part. Thus I discover for you your
hidden and unsuspected foe, which has been devouring your wood in such secrecy that you had
not the least suspicion it was there. The hole which I make in order to get at the pernicious
vermin will be seen by you as you pass under the tree. I leave it as a signal to tell you that
your tree has already stood too long. It is past its prime. Millions of insects, engendered
by disease, are preying upon its vitals. Ere long it will fall a log in useless ruins. Warned
by this loss, cut down the rest in time, and spare, O spare the unoffending woodpecker."

In the rivers and different creeks you number six species of the kingfisher. They make their
nest in a hole in the sand on the side of the bank. As there is always plenty of foliage to
protect them from the heat of the sun, they feed at all hours of the day. Though their plumage
is prettily varied, still it falls far short of the brilliancy displayed by the English kingfisher.
This little native of Britain would outweigh them altogether in the scale of beauty.

A bird called jacamar is often taken for a kingfisher, but it has no relationship to that tribe.
It frequently sits in the trees over the water, and as its beak bears some resemblance to that
of the kingfisher, this may probably account for its being taken for one; it feeds entirely
upon insects; it sits on a branch in motionless expectation, and as soon as a fly, butterfly,
or moth pass by, it darts at it, and returns to the branch it had just left. It seems an indolent,
sedentary bird, shunning the society of all others in the forest. It never visits the plantations,
but is found at all times of the year in the woods. There are four species of jacamar in Demerara.
They are all beautiful: the largest, rich and superb in the extreme. Its plumage is of so fine
a changing blue and golden-green that it may be ranked with the choicest of the humming-birds.
Nature has denied it a song, but given a costly garment in lieu of it. The smallest species
of jacamar is very common in the dry savannas. The second size, all golden-green on the back,
must be looked for in the wallaba-forest. The third is found throughout the whole extent of
these wilds, and the fourth, which is the largest, frequents the interior, where you begin
to perceive stones in the ground.

When you have penetrated far into Macoushia, you hear the pretty songster called troupiale
pour forth a variety of sweet and plaintive notes. This is the bird which the Portuguese call
the nightingale of Guiana. Its predominant colours are rich orange and shining black, arrayed
to great advantage. His delicate and well-shaped frame seems unable to bear captivity. The
Indians sometimes bring down troupiales to Stabroek, but in a few months they languish and
die in a cage. They soon become very familiar, and if you allow them the liberty of the house,
they live longer than in a cage and appear in better spirits, but when you least expect it
they drop down and die in epilepsy.

Smaller in size, and of colour not so rich and somewhat differently arranged, another species
of troupiale sings melodiously in Demerara. The woodcutter is particularly favoured by him,
for while the hen is sitting on her nest, built in the roof of the woodcutter's house, he sings
for hours together close by. He prefers the forests to the cultivated parts.

You would not grudge to stop for a few minutes, as you are walking in the plantations, to observe
a third species of troupiale: his wings, tail and throat are black; all the rest of the body
is a bright yellow. There is something very sweet and plaintive in his song, though much shorter
than that of the troupiale in the interior.

A fourth species goes in flocks from place to place, in the cultivated parts, at the time the
indian-corn is ripe; he is all black, except the head and throat, which are yellow. His attempt
at song is not worth attending to.

Wherever there is a wild fig-tree ripe, a numerous species of birds called tangara is sure
to be on it. There are eighteen beautiful species here. Their plumage is very rich and diversified.
Some of them boast six separate colours; others have the blue, purple, green and black so kindly
blended into each other that it would be impossible to mark their boundaries; while others
again exhibit them strong, distinct and abrupt. Many of these tangaras have a fine song. They
seem to partake much of the nature of our linnets, sparrows and finches. Some of them are fond
of the plantations; others are never seen there, preferring the wild seeds of the forest to
the choicest fruits planted by the hand of man.

On the same fig-trees to which they repair, and often accidentally up and down the forest,
you fall in with four species of manikin. The largest is white and black, with the feathers
on the throat remarkably long; the next in size is half red and half black; the third black,
with a white crown; the fourth black, with a golden crown, and red feathers at the knee. The
half-red and half-black species is the scarcest. There is a creek in the Demerara called Camouni.
About ten minutes from the mouth you see a common- sized fig-tree on your right hand, as you
ascend, hanging over the water; it bears a very small fig twice a year. When its fruit is ripe
this manikin is on the tree from morn till eve.

On all the ripe fig-trees in the forest you see the bird called the small tiger-bird. Like
some of our belles and dandies, it has a gaudy vest to veil an ill-shaped body. The throat,
and part of the head, are a bright red; the breast and belly have black spots on a yellow ground;
the wings are a dark green, black, and white; and the rump and tail black and green. Like the
manikin, it has no song: it depends solely upon a showy garment for admiration.

Devoid, too, of song, and in a still superber garb, the yawaraciri comes to feed on the same
tree. It has a bar like black velvet from the eyes to the beak; its legs are yellow; its throat,
wings and tail black; all the rest of the body a charming blue. Chiefly in the dry savannas,
and here and there accidentally in the forest, you see a songless yawaraciri still lovelier
than the last: his crown is whitish blue, arrayed like a coat of mail; his tail is black, his
wings black and yellow; legs red; and the whole body a glossy blue. Whilst roving through the
forest, ever and anon you see individuals of the wren species busy amongst the fallen leaves,
or seeking insects at the roots of the trees.

Here, too, you find six or seven species of small birds whose backs appear to be overloaded
with silky plumage. One of these, with a chestnut breast, smoke-coloured back, tail red, white
feathers like horns on his head, and white narrow-pointed feathers under the jaw, feeds entirely
upon ants. When a nest of large light-brown ants emigrates, one following the other in meandering
lines above a mile long, you see this bird watching them and every now and then picking them
up. When they disappear he is seen no more: perhaps this is the only kind of ant he is fond
of. When these ants are stirring, you are sure to find him near them. You cannot well mistake
the ant after you have once been in its company, for its sting is very severe, and you can
hardly shoot the bird and pick it up without having five or six upon you.

Parrots and paroquets are very numerous here, and of many different kinds. You will know when
they are near you in the forest not only by the noise they make, but also by the fruits and
seeds which they let fall while they are feeding.

The hia-hia parrot, called in England the parrot of the sun, is very remarkable: he can erect
at pleasure a fine radiated circle of tartan feathers quite round the back of his head from
jaw to jaw. The fore-part of his head is white; his back, tail and wings green; and his breast
and belly tartan.

Superior in size and beauty to every parrot of South America, the ara will force you to take
your eyes from the rest of animated nature and gaze at him: his commanding strength, the flaming
scarlet of his body, the lovely variety of red, yellow, blue and green in his wings, the extraordinary
length of his scarlet and blue tail, seem all to join and demand for him the title of emperor
of all the parrots. He is scarce in Demerara till you reach the confines of the Macoushi country:
there he is in vast abundance. He mostly feeds on trees of the palm species. When the coucourite-trees
have ripe fruit on them they are covered with this magnificent parrot. He is not shy or wary:
you may take your blow-pipe and quiver of poisoned arrows and kill more than you are able to
carry back to your hut. They are very vociferous, and, like the common parrots, rise up in
bodies towards sunset and fly two and two to their place of rest. It is a grand sight in ornithology
to see thousands of aras flying over your head, low enough to let you have a full view of their
flaming mantle. The Indians find their flesh very good, and the feathers serve for ornaments
in their head- dresses. They breed in the holes of trees, are easily reared and tamed, and
learn to speak pretty distinctly.

Another species frequents the low-lands of Demerara. He is nearly the size of the scarlet ara,
but much inferior in plumage. Blue and yellow are his predominant colours.

Along the creeks and river-sides, and in the wet savannas, six species of the bittern will
engage your attention. They are all handsome, the smallest not so large as the English water-hen.

In the savannas, too, you will sometimes surprise the snow-white egret, whose back is adorned
with the plumes from which it takes its name. Here, too, the spur-winged water-hen, the blue
and green water-hen and two other species of ordinary plumage are found. While in quest of
these, the blue heron, the large and small brown heron, the boatbill and muscovy duck now and
then rise up before you.

When the sun has sunk in the western woods, no longer agitated by the breeze; when you can
only see a straggler or two of the feathered tribe hastening to join its mate, already at its
roosting-place, then it is that the goat-sucker comes out of the forest, where it has sat all
day long in slumbering ease, unmindful of the gay and busy scenes around it. Its eyes are too
delicately formed to bear the light, and thus it is forced to shun the flaming face of day
and wait in patience till night invites him to partake of the pleasures her dusky presence brings.

The harmless, unoffending goat-sucker, from the time of Aristotle down to the present day,
has been in disgrace with man. Father has handed down to son, and author to author, that this
nocturnal thief subsists by milking the flocks. Poor injured little bird of night, how sadly
hast thou suffered, and how foul a stain has inattention to facts put upon thy character! Thou
hast never robbed man of any part of his property nor deprived the kid of a drop of milk.

When the moon shines bright you may have a fair opportunity of examining the goat-sucker. You
will see it close by the cows, goats and sheep, jumping up every now and then under their bellies.
Approach a little nearer--he is not shy: "he fears no danger, for he knows no sin." See how
the nocturnal flies are tormenting the herd, and with what dexterity he springs up and catches
them as fast as they alight on the belly, legs and udder of the animals. Observe how quiet
they stand, and how sensible they seem of his good offices, for they neither strike at him
nor hit him with their tail, nor tread on him, nor try to drive him away as an uncivil intruder.
Were you to dissect him, and inspect his stomach, you would find no milk there. It is full
of the flies which have been annoying the herd.

The prettily-mottled plumage of the goat-sucker, like that of the owl, wants the lustre which
is observed in the feathers of the birds of day. This at once marks him as a lover of the pale
moon's nightly beams. There are nine species here. The largest appears nearly the size of the
English wood-owl. Its cry is so remarkable that, having once heard it, you will never forget
it. When night reigns over these immeasurable wilds, whilst lying in your hammock you will
hear this goat-sucker lamenting like one in deep distress. A stranger would never conceive
it to be the cry of a bird. He would say it was the departing voice of a midnight murdered
victim or the last wailing of Niobe for her poor children before she was turned into stone.
Suppose yourself in hopeless sorrow, begin with a high loud note, and pronounce "ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, ha, ha," each note lower and lower, till the last is scarcely heard, pausing a moment
or two betwixt every note, and you will have some idea of the moaning of the largest goat-sucker
in Demerara.

Four other species of the goat-sucker articulate some words so distinctly that they have received
their names from the sentences they utter, and absolutely bewilder the stranger on his arrival
in these parts. The most common one sits down close by your door, and flies and alights three
or four yards before you, as you walk along the road, crying, "Who-are-you, who-who-who-are-you."
Another bids you "Work-away, work-work-work-away." A third cries, mournfully, "Willy-come-go,
willy-willy-willy-come-go." And high up in the country a fourth tells you to "Whip-poor-will,
whip-whip- whip-poor-will."

You will never persuade the negro to destroy these birds or get the Indian to let fly his arrow
at them. They are birds of omen and reverential dread. Jumbo, the demon of Africa, has them
under his command, and they equally obey the Yabahou, or Demerara Indian devil. They are the
receptacles for departed souls, who come back again to earth, unable to rest for crimes done
in their days of nature; or they are expressly sent by Jumbo, or Yabahou, to haunt cruel and
hard-hearted masters and retaliate injuries received from them. If the largest goat-sucker
chance to cry near the white man's door, sorrow and grief will soon be inside: and they expect
to see the master waste away with a slow consuming sickness. If it be heard close to the negro's
or Indian's hut, from that night misfortune sits brooding over it: and they await the event
in terrible suspense.

You will forgive the poor Indian of Guiana for this. He knows no better; he has nobody to teach
him. But shame it is that in our own civilised country the black cat and broomstaff should
be considered as conductors to and from the regions of departed spirits.

Many years ago I knew poor harmless Mary: old age had marked her strongly, just as he will
mark you and me, should we arrive at her years and carry the weight of grief which bent her
double. The old men of the village said she had been very pretty in her youth, and nothing
could be seen more comely than Mary when she danced on the green. He who had gained her heart
left her for another, less fair, though richer, than Mary. From that time she became sad and
pensive; the rose left her cheek, and she was never more seen to dance round the maypole on
the green. Her expectations were blighted; she became quite indifferent to everything around
her, and seemed to think of nothing but how she could best attend her mother, who was lame
and not long for this life. Her mother had begged a black kitten from some boys who were going
to drown it, and in her last illness she told Mary to be kind to it for her sake.

When age and want had destroyed the symmetry of Mary's fine form, the village began to consider
her as one who had dealings with spirits: her cat confirmed the suspicion. If a cow died, or
a villager wasted away with an unknown complaint, Mary and her cat had it to answer for. Her
broom sometimes served her for a walking-stick: and if ever she supported her tottering frame
with it as far as the maypole, where once, in youthful bloom and beauty, she had attracted
the eyes of all, the boys would surround her and make sport of her, while her cat had neither
friend nor safety beyond the cottage-wall. Nobody considered it cruel or uncharitable to torment
a witch; and it is probable, long before this, that cruelty, old age and want have worn her
out, and that both poor Mary and her cat have ceased to be.

Would you wish to pursue the different species of game, well-stored and boundless is your range
in Demerara. Here no one dogs you, and afterwards clandestinely inquires if you have a hundred
a year in land to entitle you to enjoy such patrician sport. Here no saucy intruder asks if
you have taken out a licence, by virtue of which you are allowed to kill the birds which have
bred upon your own property. Here

  You are as free as when God first made man,
  Ere the vile laws of servitude began,
  And wild in woods the noble savage ran.

Before the morning's dawn you hear a noise in the forest which sounds like "duraquaura" often
repeated. This is the partridge, a little smaller than and differing somewhat in colour from
the English partridge: it lives entirely in the forest, and probably the young brood very soon
leaves its parents, as you never flush more than two birds in the same place, and in general
only one.

About the same hour, and sometimes even at midnight, you hear two species of maam, or tinamou,
send forth their long and plaintive whistle from the depth of the forest. The flesh of both
is delicious. The largest is plumper, and almost equals in size the blackcock of Northumberland.
The quail is said to be here, though rare.

The hannaquoi, which some have compared to the pheasant, though with little reason, is very common.

Here are also two species of the powise, or hocco, and two of the small wild turkeys called
maroudi: they feed on the ripe fruits of the forest and are found in all directions in these
extensive wilds. You will admire the horned screamer as a stately and majestic bird: he is
almost the size of the turkey-cock, on his head is a long slender horn, and each wing is armed
with a strong, sharp, triangular spur an inch long.

Sometimes you will fall in with flocks of two or three hundred waracabas, or trumpeters, called
so from the singular noise they produce. Their breast is adorned with beautiful changing blue
and purple feathers; their head and neck like velvet; their wings and back grey, and belly
black. They run with great swiftness, and when domesticated attend their master in his walks
with as much apparent affection as his dog. They have no spurs, but still, such is their high
spirit and activity, they browbeat every dunghill fowl in the yard and force the guinea-birds,
dogs and turkeys to own their superiority.

If, kind and gentle reader, thou shouldst ever visit these regions with an intention to examine
their productions, perhaps the few observations contained in these wanderings may be of service
to thee. Excuse their brevity: more could have been written, and each bird more particularly
described, but it would have been pressing too hard upon thy time and patience.

Soon after arriving in these parts thou wilt find that the species here enumerated are only
as a handful from a well-stored granary. Nothing has been said of the eagles, the falcons,
the hawks and shrikes; nothing of the different species of vultures, the king of which is very
handsome, and seems to be the only bird which claims regal honours from a surrounding tribe.
It is a fact beyond all dispute that, when the scent of carrion has drawn together hundreds
of the common vultures, they all retire from the carcass as soon as the king of the vultures
makes his appearance. When his majesty has satisfied the cravings of his royal stomach with
the choicest bits from the most stinking and corrupted parts, he generally retires to a neighbouring
tree, and then the common vultures return in crowds to gobble down his leavings. The Indians,
as well as the whites, have observed this, for when one of them, who has learned a little English,
sees the king, and wishes you to have a proper notion of the bird, he says: "There is the governor
of the carrion-crows."

Now the Indians have never heard of a personage in Demerara higher than that of governor; and
the colonists, through a common mistake, call the vultures carrion-crows. Hence the Indian,
in order to express the dominion of this bird over the common vultures, tells you he is governor
of the carrion-crows. The Spaniards have also observed it, for through all the Spanish Main
he is called Rey de Zamuros, king of the vultures. The many species of owls, too, have not
been noticed; and no mention made of the columbine tribe. The prodigious variety of water-fowl
on the sea-shore has been but barely hinted at.

There, and on the borders and surface of the inland waters, in the marshes and creeks, besides
the flamingos, scarlet curlews and spoonbills already mentioned, will be found greenish-brown
curlews, sandpipers, rails, coots, gulls, pelicans, jabirus, nandapoas, crabiers, snipes, plovers,
ducks, geese, cranes and anhingas; most of them in vast abundance; some frequenting only the
sea-coast, others only the interior, according to their different natures; all worthy the attention
of the naturalist, all worthy of a place in the cabinet of the curious.

Should thy comprehensive genius not confine itself to birds alone, grand is the appearance
of other objects all around. Thou art in a land rich in botany and mineralogy, rich in zoology
and entomology. Animation will glow in thy looks and exercise will brace thy frame in vigour.
The very time of thy absence from the tables of heterogeneous luxury will be profitable to
thy stomach, perhaps already sorely drenched with Londo-Parisian sauces, and a new stock of
health will bring thee an appetite to relish the wholesome food of the chase. Never-failing
sleep will wait on thee at the time she comes to soothe the rest of animated nature, and ere
the sun's rays appear in the horizon thou wilt spring from thy hammock fresh as the April lark.
Be convinced also that the dangers and difficulties which are generally supposed to accompany
the traveller in his journey through distant regions are not half so numerous or dreadful as
they are commonly thought to be.

The youth who incautiously reels into the lobby of Drury Lane after leaving the table sacred
to the god of wine is exposed to more certain ruin, sickness and decay than he who wanders
a whole year in the wilds of Demerara. But this will never be believed because the disasters
arising from dissipation are so common and frequent in civilised life that man becomes quite
habituated to them, and sees daily victims sink into the tomb long before their time without
ever once taking alarm at the causes which precipitated them headlong into it.

But the dangers which a traveller exposes himself to in foreign parts are novel, out-of-the-way
things to a man at home. The remotest apprehension of meeting a tremendous tiger, of being
carried off by a flying dragon, or having his bones picked by a famished cannibal: oh, that
makes him shudder. It sounds in his ears like the bursting of a bombshell. Thank Heaven he
is safe by his own fireside.

Prudence and resolution ought to be the traveller's constant companions. The first will cause
him to avoid a number of snares which he will find in the path as he journeys on; and the second
will always lend a hand to assist him if he has unavoidably got entangled in them. The little
distinctions which have been shown him at his own home ought to be forgotten when he travels
over the world at large, for strangers know nothing of his former merits, and it is necessary
that they should witness them before they pay him the tribute which he was wont to receive
within his own doors. Thus to be kind and affable to those we meet, to mix in their amusements,
to pay a compliment or two to their manners and customs, to respect their elders, to give a
little to their distressed and needy, and to feel, as it were, at home amongst them, is the
sure way to enable you to pass merrily on, and to find other comforts as sweet and palatable
as those which you were accustomed to partake of amongst your friends and acquaintance in your
own native land.

We will now ascend in fancy on Icarian wing and take a view of Guiana in general. See an immense
plain! betwixt two of the largest rivers in the world, level as a bowling-green, save at Cayenne,
and covered with trees along the coast quite to the Atlantic wave, except where the plantations
make a little vacancy amongst the foliage.

Though nearly in the centre of the Torrid Zone, the sun's rays are not so intolerable as might
be imagined, on account of the perpetual verdure and refreshing north-east breeze. See what
numbers of broad and rapid rivers intersect it in their journey to the ocean, and that not
a stone or a pebble is to be found on their banks, or in any part of the country, till your
eye catches the hills in the interior. How beautiful and magnificent are the lakes in the heart
of the forests, and how charming the forests themselves, for miles after miles on each side
of the rivers! How extensive appear the savannas or natural meadows, teeming with innumerable
herds of cattle, where the Portuguese and Spaniards are settled, but desert as Saara where
the English and Dutch claim dominion! How gradually the face of the country rises! See the
sandhills all clothed in wood first emerging from the level, then hills a little higher, rugged
with bold and craggy rocks, peeping out from amongst the most luxuriant timber. Then come plains
and dells and far-extending valleys, arrayed in richest foliage; and beyond them mountains
piled on mountains, some bearing prodigious forests, others of bleak and barren aspect. Thus
your eye wanders on over scenes of varied loveliness and grandeur, till it rests on the stupendous
pinnacles of the long-continued Cordilleras de los Andes, which rise in towering majesty and
command all America.

How fertile must the low-lands be from the accumulation of fallen leaves and trees for centuries!
How propitious the swamps and slimy beds of the rivers, heated by a downward sun, to the amazing
growth of alligators, serpents and innumerable insects! How inviting the forests to the feathered
tribes, where you see buds, blossoms, green and ripe fruit, full grown and fading leaves all
on the same tree! How secure the wild beasts may rove in endless mazes! Perhaps those mountains,
too, which appear so bleak and naked, as if quite neglected, are, like Potosi, full of precious
metals.

Let us now return the pinions we borrowed from Icarus, and prepare to bid farewell to the wilds.
The time allotted to these wanderings is drawing fast to a close. Every day for the last six
months has been employed in paying close attention to natural history in the forests of Demerara.
Above two hundred specimens of the finest birds have been collected and a pretty just knowledge
formed of their haunts and economy. From the time of leaving England, in March 1816, to the
present day, nothing has intervened to arrest a fine flow of health, saving a quartan ague
which did not tarry, but fled as suddenly as it appeared.

And now I take leave of thee, kind and gentle reader. The new mode of preserving birds heretofore
promised thee shall not be forgotten. The plan is already formed in imagination, and can be
penned down during the passage across the Atlantic. If the few remarks in these wanderings
shall have any weight in inciting thee to sally forth and explore the vast and well-stored
regions of Demerara, I have gained my end. Adieu.

CHARLES WATERTON.

April 6, 1817.

       *       *       *       *       *

THIRD JOURNEY

  Desertosque videre locos, littusque relictum.

Gentle reader, after staying a few months in England, I strayed across the Alps and the Apennines,
and returned home, but could not tarry. Guiana still whispered in my ear, and seemed to invite
me once more to wander through her distant forests.

Shouldst thou have a leisure hour to read what follows, I pray thee pardon the frequent use
of that unwelcome monosyllable I. It could not well be avoided, as will be seen in the sequel.
In February 1820 I sailed from the Clyde, on board the Glenbervie, a fine West-Indiaman. She
was driven to the north-west of Ireland, and had to contend with a foul and wintry wind for
above a fortnight. At last it changed, and we had a pleasant passage across the Atlantic.

Sad and mournful was the story we heard on entering the River Demerara. The yellow fever had
swept off numbers of the old inhabitants, and the mortal remains of many a new-comer were daily
passing down the streets in slow and mute procession to their last resting-place.

After staying a few days in the town, I went up the Demerara to the former habitation of my
worthy friend Mr. Edmonstone, in Mibiri Creek.

The house had been abandoned for some years. On arriving at the hill, the remembrance of scenes
long past and gone naturally broke in upon the mind. All was changed: the house was in ruins
and gradually sinking under the influence of the sun and rain; the roof had nearly fallen in;
and the room, where once governors and generals had caroused, was now dismantled and tenanted
by the vampire. You would have said:

  'Tis now the vampire's bleak abode,
  'Tis now the apartment of the toad:
  'Tis here the painful chegoe feeds,
  'Tis here the dire labarri breeds
  Conceal'd in ruins, moss, and weeds.

On the outside of the house Nature had nearly reassumed her ancient right: a few straggling
fruit-trees were still discernible amid the varied hue of the near-approaching forest; they
seemed like strangers lost and bewildered and unpitied in a foreign land, destined to linger
a little longer, and then sink down for ever.

I hired some negroes from a woodcutter in another creek to repair the roof; and then the house,
or at least what remained of it, became headquarters for natural history. The frogs, and here
and there a snake, received that attention which the weak in this world generally experience
from the strong, and which the law commonly denominates an ejectment. But here neither the
frogs nor serpents were ill-treated: they sallied forth, without buffet or rebuke, to choose
their place of residence--the world was all before them. The owls went away of their own accord,
preferring to retire to a hollow tree rather than to associate with their new landlord. The
bats and vampires stayed with me, and went in and out as usual.

It was upon this hill in former days that I first tried to teach John, the black slave of my
friend Mr. Edmonstone, the proper way to do birds. But John had poor abilities, and it required
much time and patience to drive anything into him. Some years after this his master took him
to Scotland, where, becoming free, John left him, and got employed in the Glasgow, and then
the Edinburgh, Museum. Mr. Robert Edmonstone, nephew to the above gentleman, had a fine mulatto
capable of learning anything. He requested me to teach him the art. I did so. He was docile
and active, and was with me all the time in the forest. I left him there to keep up this new
art of preserving birds and to communicate it to others. Here, then, I fixed my headquarters,
in the ruins of this once gay and hospitable house. Close by, in a little hut which, in times
long past, had served for a store to keep provisions in, there lived a coloured man and his
wife, by name Backer. Many a kind turn they did to me; and I was more than once a service to
them and their children, by bringing to their relief in time of sickness what little knowledge
I had acquired of medicine.

I would here, gentle reader, wish to draw thy attention, for a few minutes, to physic, raiment
and diet. Shouldst thou ever wander through these remote and dreary wilds, forget not to carry
with thee bark, laudanum, calomel and jalap, and the lancet. There are no druggist-shops here,
nor sons of Galen to apply to in time of need. I never go encumbered with many clothes. A thin
flannel waistcoat under a check shirt, a pair of trousers and a hat were all my wardrobe: shoes
and stockings I seldom had on. In dry weather they would have irritated the feet and retarded
me in the chase of wild beasts; and in the rainy season they would have kept me in a perpetual
state of damp and moisture. I eat moderately, and never drink wine, spirits or fermented liquors
in any climate. This abstemiousness has ever proved a faithful friend; it carried me triumphant
through the epidemia at Malaga, where death made such havoc about the beginning of the present
century; and it has since befriended me in many a fit of sickness brought on by exposure to
the noon-day sun, to the dews of night, to the pelting shower and unwholesome food.

Perhaps it will be as well here to mention a fever which came on, and the treatment of it:
it may possibly be of use to thee, shouldst thou turn wanderer in the tropics; a word or two
also of a wound I got in the forest, and then we will say no more of the little accidents which
sometimes occur, and attend solely to natural history. We shall have an opportunity of seeing
the wild animals in their native haunts, undisturbed and unbroken in upon by man. We shall
have time and leisure to look more closely at them, and probably rectify some errors which,
for want of proper information or a near observance, have crept into their several histories.

It was in the month of June, when the sun was within a few days of Cancer, that I had a severe
attack of fever. There had been a deluge of rain, accompanied with tremendous thunder and lightning,
and very little sun. Nothing could exceed the dampness of the atmosphere. For two or three
days I had been in a kind of twilight state of health, neither ill nor what you may call well:
I yawned and felt weary without exercise, and my sleep was merely slumber. This was the time
to have taken medicine, but I neglected to do so, though I had just been reading: "O navis,
referent in mare te novi fluctus, O quid agis? fortiter occupa portum." I awoke at midnight:
a cruel headache, thirst and pain in the small of the back informed me what the case was. Had
Chiron himself been present he could not have told me more distinctly that I was going to have
a tight brush of it, and that I ought to meet it with becoming fortitude. I dozed and woke
and startled, and then dozed again, and suddenly awoke thinking I was falling down a precipice.

The return of the bats to their diurnal retreat, which was in the thatch above my hammock,
informed me that the sun was now fast approaching to the eastern horizon. I arose in languor
and in pain, the pulse at one hundred and twenty. I took ten grains of calomel and a scruple
of jalap, and drank during the day large draughts of tea, weak and warm. The physic did its
duty, but there was no remission of fever or headache, though the pain of the back was less
acute. I was saved the trouble of keeping the room cool, as the wind beat in at every quarter.

At five in the evening the pulse had risen to one hundred and thirty, and the headache almost
insupportable, especially on looking to the right or left. I now opened a vein, and made a
large orifice, to allow the blood to rush out rapidly; I closed it after losing sixteen ounces.
I then steeped my feet in warm water and got into the hammock. After bleeding the pulse fell
to ninety, and the head was much relieved, but during the night, which was very restless, the
pulse rose again to one hundred and twenty, and at times the headache was distressing. I relieved
the headache from time to time by applying cold water to the temples and holding a wet handkerchief
there. The next morning the fever ran very high, and I took five more grains of calomel and
ten of jalap, determined, whatever might be the case, this should be the last dose of calomel.
About two o'clock in the afternoon the fever remitted, and a copious perspiration came on:
there was no more headache nor thirst nor pain in the back, and the following night was comparatively
a good one. The next morning I swallowed a large dose of castor-oil: it was genuine, for Louisa
Backer had made it from the seeds of the trees which grew near the door. I was now entirely
free from all symptoms of fever, or apprehensions of a return; and the morning after I began
to take bark, and continued it for a fortnight. This put all to rights.

The story of the wound I got in the forest and the mode of cure are very short. I had pursued
a redheaded woodpecker for above a mile in the forest without being able to get a shot at it.
Thinking more of the woodpecker, as I ran along, than of the way before me, I trod upon a little
hardwood stump which was just about an inch or so above the ground; it entered the hollow part
of my foot, making a deep and lacerated wound there. It had brought me to the ground, and there
I lay till a transitory fit of sickness went off. I allowed it to bleed freely, and on reaching
headquarters washed it well and probed it, to feel if any foreign body was left within it.
Being satisfied that there was none, I brought the edges of the wound together and then put
a piece of lint on it, and over that a very large poultice, which was changed morning, noon
and night. Luckily Backer had a cow or two upon the hill; now as heat and moisture are the
two principal virtues of a poultice, nothing could produce those two qualities better than
fresh cow- dung boiled: had there been no cows there I could have made out with boiled grass
and leaves. I now took entirely to the hammock, placing the foot higher than the knee: this
prevented it from throbbing, and was, indeed, the only position in which I could be at ease.
When the inflammation was completely subdued I applied a wet cloth to the wound, and every
now and then steeped the foot in cold water during the day, and at night again applied a poultice.
The wound was now healing fast, and in three weeks from the time of the accident nothing but
a scar remained: so that I again sallied forth sound and joyful, and said to myself:

  I, pedes quo te rapiunt et aurae
  Dum favet sol, et locus, i secundo
  Omine, et conto latebras, ut olim,
                        Rumpe ferarum.

Now this contus was a tough, light pole eight feet long, on the end of which was fixed an old
bayonet. I never went into the canoe without it: it was of great use in starting the beasts
and snakes out of the hollow trees, and in case of need was an excellent defence.

In 1819 I had the last conversation with Sir Joseph Banks. I saw with sorrow that death was
going to rob us of him. We talked much of the present mode adopted by all museums in stuffing
quadrupeds, and condemned it as being very imperfect: still we could not find out a better
way, and at last concluded that the lips and nose ought to be cut off and replaced with wax,
it being impossible to make those parts appear like life, as they shrink to nothing and render
the stuffed specimens in the different museums horrible to look at. The defects in the legs
and feet would not be quite so glaring, being covered with hair.

I had paid great attention to this subject for above fourteen years; still it would not do.
However, one night, while I was lying in the hammock and harping on the string on which hung
all my solicitude, I hit upon the proper mode by inference: it appeared clear to me that it
was the only true way of going to work, and ere I closed my eyes in sleep I was able to prove
to myself that there could not be any other way that would answer. I tried it the next day,
and succeeded according to expectation.

By means of this process, which is very simple, we can now give every feature back again to
the animal's face after it has been skinned; and when necessary stamp grief or pain, or pleasure,
or rage, or mildness upon it. But more of this hereafter.

Let us now turn our attention to the sloth, whose native haunts have hitherto been so little
known and probably little looked into. Those who have written on this singular animal have
remarked that he is in a perpetual state of pain, that he is proverbially slow in his movements,
that he is a prisoner in space, and that, as soon as he has consumed all the leaves of the
tree upon which he had mounted, he rolls himself up in the form of a ball and then falls to
the ground. This is not the case.

If the naturalists who have written the history of the sloth had gone into the wilds in order
to examine his haunts and economy, they would not have drawn the foregoing conclusions. They
would have learned that, though all other quadrupeds may be described while resting upon the
ground, the sloth is an exception to this rule, and that his history must be written while
he is in the tree.

This singular animal is destined by Nature to be produced, to live and to die in the trees;
and to do justice to him naturalists must examine him in this his upper element. He is a scarce
and solitary animal, and being good food he is never allowed to escape. He inhabits remote
and gloomy forests where snakes take up their abode, and where cruelly-stinging ants and scorpions
and swamps and innumerable thorny shrubs and bushes obstruct the steps of civilised man. Were
you to draw your own conclusions from the descriptions which have been given of the sloth,
you would probably suspect that no naturalist has actually gone into the wilds with the fixed
determination to find him out and examine his haunts, and see whether Nature has committed
any blunder in the formation of this extraordinary creature, which appears to us so forlorn
and miserable, so ill put together, and so totally unfit to enjoy the blessings which have
been so bountifully given to the rest of animated nature; for, as it has formerly been remarked,
he has no soles to his feet, and he is evidently ill at ease when he tries to move on the ground,
and it is then that he looks up in your face with a countenance that says: "Have pity on me,
for I am in pain and sorrow."

It mostly happens that Indians and negroes are the people who catch the sloth and bring it
to the white man: hence it may be conjectured that the erroneous accounts we have hitherto
had of the sloth have not been penned down with the slightest intention to mislead the reader
or give him an exaggerated history, but that these errors have naturally arisen by examining
the sloth in those places where Nature never intended that he should be exhibited.

However, we are now in his own domain. Man but little frequents these thick and noble forests,
which extend far and wide on every side of us. This, then, is the proper place to go in quest
of the sloth. We will first take a near view of him. By obtaining a knowledge of his anatomy
we shall be enabled to account for his movements hereafter, when we see him in his proper haunts.
His fore-legs, or, more correctly speaking, his arms, are apparently much too long, while his
hind-legs are very short, and look as if they could be bent almost to the shape of a corkscrew.
Both the fore- and hind-legs, by their form and by the manner in which they are joined to the
body, are quite incapacitated from acting in a perpendicular direction, or in supporting it
on the earth, as the bodies of other quadrupeds are supported by their legs. Hence, when you
place him on the floor, his belly touches the ground. Now, granted that he supported himself
on his legs like other animals, nevertheless he would be in pain, for he has no soles to his
feet, and his claws are very sharp and long and curved; so that were his body supported by
his feet, it would be by their extremities, just as your body would be were you to throw yourself
on all-fours and try to support it on the ends of your toes and fingers--a trying position.
Were the floor of glass, or of a polished surface, the sloth would actually be quite stationary;
but as the ground is generally rough, with little protuberances upon it, such as stones, or
roots of grass, etc., this just suits the sloth, and he moves his fore-legs in all directions,
in order to find something to lay hold of; and when he has succeeded he pulls himself forward,
and is thus enabled to travel onwards, but at the same time in so tardy and awkward a manner
as to acquire him the name of sloth.

Indeed his looks and his gestures evidently betray his uncomfortable situation: and as a sigh
every now and then escapes him, we may be entitled to conclude that he is actually in pain.

Some years ago I kept a sloth in my room for several months. I often took him out of the house
and placed him upon the ground, in order to have an opportunity of observing his motions. If
the ground were rough, he would pull himself forwards by means of his fore-legs at a pretty
good pace, and he invariably immediately shaped his course towards the nearest tree. But if
I put him upon a smooth and well-trodden part of the road, he appeared to be in trouble and
distress. His favourite abode was the back of a chair and, after getting all his legs in a
line upon the topmost part of it, he would hang there for hours together, and often with a
low and inward cry would seem to invite me to take notice of him.

The sloth, in its wild state, spends its whole life in trees, and never leaves them but through
force or by accident. An all-ruling Providence has ordered man to tread on the surface of the
earth, the eagle to soar in the expanse of the skies, and the monkey and squirrel to inhabit
the trees: still these may change their relative situations without feeling much inconvenience;
but the sloth is doomed to spend his whole life in the trees, and, what is more extraordinary,
not upon the branches, like the squirrel and the monkey, but under them. He moves suspended
from the branch, he rests suspended from it, and he sleeps suspended from it. To enable him
to do this he must have a very different formation from that of any other known quadruped.

Hence his seemingly bungled conformation is at once accounted for; and in lieu of the sloth
leading a painful life, and entailing a melancholy and miserable existence on its progeny,
it is but fair to surmise that it just enjoys life as much as any other animal, and that its
extraordinary formation and singular habits are but further proofs to engage us to admire the
wonderful works of Omnipotence.

It must be observed that the sloth does not hang head-downwards like the vampire. When asleep
he supports himself from a branch parallel to the earth. He first seizes the branch with one
arm, and then with the other; and after that brings up both his legs, one by one, to the same
branch; so that all four are in a line: he seems perfectly at rest in this position. Now had
he a tail, he would be at a loss to know what to do with it in this position: were he to draw
it up within his legs it would interfere with them, and were he to let it hang down it would
become the sport of the winds. Thus his deficiency of tail is a benefit to him; it is merely
an apology for a tail, scarcely exceeding an inch and a half in length.

I observed, when he was climbing, he never used his arms both together, but first one and then
the other, and so on alternately. There is a singularity in his hair, different from that of
all other animals, and, I believe, hitherto unnoticed by naturalists. His hair is thick and
coarse at the extremity, and gradually tapers to the root, where it becomes fine as a spider's
web. His fur has so much the hue of the moss which grows on the branches of the trees that
it is very difficult to make him out when he is at rest.

The male of the three-toed sloth has a longitudinal bar of very fine black hair on his back,
rather lower than the shoulder-blades; on each side of this black bar there is a space of yellow
hair, equally fine; it has the appearance of being pressed into the body, and looks exactly
as if it had been singed. If we examine the anatomy of his fore-legs, we shall immediately
perceive by their firm and muscular texture how very capable they are of supporting the pendent
weight of his body, both in climbing and at rest; and, instead of pronouncing them a bungled
composition, as a celebrated naturalist has done, we shall consider them as remarkably well
calculated to perform their extraordinary functions.

As the sloth is an inhabitant of forests within the tropics, where the trees touch each other
in the greatest profusion, there seems to be no reason why he should confine himself to one
tree alone for food, and entirely strip it of its leaves. During the many years I have ranged
the forests I have never seen a tree in such a state of nudity; indeed, I would hazard a conjecture
that, by the time the animal had finished the last of the old leaves, there would be a new
crop on the part of the tree he had stripped first, ready for him to begin again, so quick
is the process of vegetation in these countries.

There is a saying amongst the Indians that, when the wind blows, the sloth begins to travel.
In calm weather he remains tranquil, probably not liking to cling to the brittle extremity
of the branches, lest they should break with him in passing from one tree to another; but as
soon as the wind rises the branches of the neighbouring trees become interwoven, and then the
sloth seizes hold of them and pursues his journey in safety. There is seldom an entire day
of calm in these forests. The tradewind generally sets in about ten o'clock in the morning,
and thus the sloth may set off after breakfast, and get a considerable way before dinner. He
travels at a good round pace; and were you to see him pass from tree to tree, as I have done,
you would never think of calling him a sloth.

Thus it would appear that the different histories we have of this quadruped are erroneous on
two accounts: first, that the writers of them, deterred by difficulties and local annoyances,
have not paid sufficient attention to him in his native haunts; and secondly, they have described
him in a situation in which he was never intended by Nature to cut a figure: I mean on the
ground. The sloth is as much at a loss to proceed on his journey upon a smooth and level floor
as a man would be who had to walk a mile in stilts upon a line of feather-beds.

One day, as we were crossing the Essequibo, I saw a large two-toed sloth on the ground upon
the bank. How he had got there nobody could tell: the Indian said he had never surprised a
sloth in such a situation before. He would hardly have come there to drink, for both above
and below the place the branches of the trees touched the water, and afforded him an easy and
safe access to it. Be this as it may, though the trees were not above twenty yards from him,
he could not make his way through the sand time enough to escape before we landed. As soon
as we got up to him he threw himself upon his back, and defended himself in gallant style with
his fore- legs. "Come, poor fellow," said I to him, "if thou hast got into a hobble to-day,
thou shalt not suffer for it. I'll take no advantage of thee in misfortune; the forest is large
enough both for thee and me to rove in: go thy ways up above, and enjoy thyself in these endless
wilds; it is more than probable thou wilt never have another interview with man. So fare thee
well." On saying this, I took a long stick which was lying there, held it for him to hook on,
and then conveyed him to a high and stately mora. He ascended with wonderful rapidity, and
in about a minute he was almost at the top of the tree. He now went off in a side direction,
and caught hold of the branch of a neighbouring tree; he then proceeded towards the heart of
the forest. I stood looking on, lost in amazement at his singular mode of progress. I followed
him with my eye till the intervening branches closed in betwixt us; and then I lost sight for
ever of the two-toed sloth. I was going to add that I never saw a sloth take to his heels in
such earnest: but the expression will not do, for the sloth has no heels.

That which naturalists have advanced of his being so tenacious of life is perfectly true. I
saw the heart of one beat for half an hour after it was taken out of the body. The wourali
poison seems to be the only thing that will kill it quickly. On reference to a former part
of these wanderings, it will be seen that a poisoned arrow killed the sloth in about ten minutes.

So much for this harmless, unoffending animal. He holds a conspicuous place in the catalogue
of the animals of the new world. Though naturalists have made no mention of what follows, still
it is not less true on that account. The sloth is the only quadruped known which spends its
whole life from the branch of a tree, suspended by his feet. I have paid uncommon attention
to him in his native haunts. The monkey and squirrel will seize a branch with their fore-feet,
and pull themselves up, and rest or run upon it; but the sloth, after seizing it, still remains
suspended, and suspended moves along under the branch, till he can lay hold of another. Whenever
I have seen him in his native woods, whether at rest or asleep or on his travels, I have always
observed that he was suspended from the branch of a tree. When his form and anatomy are attentively
considered, it will appear evident that the sloth cannot be at ease in any situation where
his body is higher, or above, his feet. We will now take our leave of him.

In the far-extending wilds of Guiana the traveller will be astonished at the immense quantity
of ants which he perceives on the ground and in the trees. They have nests in the branches
four or five times as large as that of the rook; and they have a covered way from them to the
ground. In this covered way thousands are perpetually passing and repassing; and if you destroy
part of it, they turn to and immediately repair it.

Other species of ants again have no covered way, but travel exposed to view upon the surface
of the earth. You will sometimes see a string of these ants a mile long, each carrying in its
mouth, to its nest, a green leaf the size of a sixpence. It is wonderful to observe the order
in which they move, and with what pains and labour they surmount the obstructions of the path.

The ants have their enemies as well as the rest of animated nature. Amongst the foremost of
these stand the three species of ant-bears. The smallest is not much larger than a rat; the
next is nearly the size of a fox; and the third a stout and powerful animal, measuring about
six feet from the snout to the end of the tail. He is the most inoffensive of all animals,
and never injures the property of man. He is chiefly found in the inmost recesses of the forest,
and seems partial to the low and swampy parts near creeks, where the troely-tree grows. There
he goes up and down in quest of ants, of which there is never the least scarcity; so that he
soon obtains a sufficient supply of food with very little trouble. He cannot travel fast; man
is superior to him in speed. Without swiftness to enable him to escape from his enemies, without
teeth, the possession of which would assist him in self-defence, and without the power of burrowing
in the ground, by which he might conceal himself from his pursuers, he still is capable of
ranging through these wilds in perfect safety; nor does he fear the fatal pressure of the serpent's
fold or the teeth of the famished jaguar. Nature has formed his fore-legs wonderfully thick
and strong and muscular, and armed his feet with three tremendous sharp and crooked claws.
Whenever he seizes an animal with these formidable weapons he hugs it close to his body, and
keeps it there till it dies through pressure or through want of food. Nor does the ant-bear,
in the meantime, suffer much from loss of aliment, as it is a well-known fact that he can go
longer without food than, perhaps, any other animal, except the land-tortoise. His skin is
of a texture that perfectly resists the bite of a dog; his hinder-parts are protected by thick
and shaggy hair, while his immense tail is large enough to cover his whole body.

The Indians have a great dread of coming in contact with the ant-bear and, after disabling
him in the chase, never think of approaching him till he be quite dead. It is perhaps on account
of this caution that naturalists have never yet given to the world a true and correct drawing
of this singular animal, or described the peculiar position of his fore-feet when he walks
or stands. If, in taking a drawing from a dead ant-bear, you judge of the position in which
he stands from that of all other terrestrial animals, the sloth excepted, you will be in error.
Examine only a figure of this animal in books of natural history, or inspect a stuffed specimen
in the best museums, and you will see that the fore-claws are just in the same forward attitude
as those of a dog, or a common bear when he walks or stands. But this is a distorted and unnatural
position, and in life would be a painful and intolerable attitude for the ant-bear. The length
and curve of his claws cannot admit of such a position. When he walks or stands his feet have
somewhat the appearance of a club-hand. He goes entirely on the outer side of his fore-feet,
which are quite bent inwards, the claws collected into a point, and going under the foot. In
this position he is quite at ease, while his long claws are disposed of in a manner to render
them harmless to him and are prevented from becoming dull and worn, like those of the dog,
which would inevitably be the case did their points come in actual contact with the ground;
for his claws have not that retractile power which is given to animals of the feline species,
by which they are enabled to preserve the sharpness of their claws on the most flinty path.
A slight inspection of the fore-feet of the ant-bear will immediately convince you of the mistake
artists and naturalists have fallen into by putting his fore-feet in the same position as those
of other quadrupeds, for you will perceive that the whole outer side of his foot is not only
deprived of hair, but is hard and callous: proof positive of its being in perpetual contact
with the ground. Now, on the contrary, the inner side of the bottom of his foot is soft and
rather hairy.

There is another singularity in the anatomy of the ant-bear, I believe as yet unnoticed in
the page of natural history. He has two very large glands situated below the root of the tongue.
From these is emitted a glutinous liquid, with which his long tongue is lubricated when he
puts it into the ants' nests. These glands are of the same substance as those found in the
lower jaw of the woodpecker. The secretion from them, when wet, is very clammy and adhesive,
but on being dried it loses these qualities, and you can pulverise it betwixt your finger and
thumb; so that in dissection, if any of it has got upon the fur of the animal or the feathers
of the bird, allow it to dry there, and then it may be removed without leaving the least stain
behind.

The ant-bear is a pacific animal. He is never the first to begin the attack. His motto may
be "Noli me tangere." As his habits and his haunts differ materially from those of every other
animal in the forest, their interests never clash, and thus he might live to a good old age,
and die at last in peace, were it not that his flesh is good food. On this account the Indian
wages perpetual war against him and, as he cannot escape by flight, he falls an easy prey to
the poisoned arrow shot from the Indian's bow at a distance. If ever he be closely attacked
by dogs, he immediately throws himself on his back, and if he be fortunate enough to catch
hold of his enemy with his tremendous claws, the invader is sure to pay for his rashness with
the loss of life.

We will now take a view of the vampire. As there was a free entrance and exit to the vampire
in the loft where I slept, I had many a fine opportunity of paying attention to this nocturnal
surgeon. He does not always live on blood. When the moon shone bright, and the fruit of the
banana-tree was ripe, I could see him approach and eat it. He would also bring into the loft,
from the forest, a green round fruit something like the wild guava and about the size of a
nutmeg. There was something also in the blossom of the sawarri nut-tree which was grateful
to him, for on coming up Waratilla Creek, in a moonlight night, I saw several vampires fluttering
round the top of the sawarri-tree, and every now and then the blossoms, which they had broken
off, fell into the water. They certainly did not drop off naturally, for on examining several
of them they appeared quite fresh and blooming. So I concluded the vampires pulled them from
the tree either to get at the incipient fruit or to catch the insects which often take up their
abode in flowers.

The vampire, in general, measures about twenty-six inches from wing to wing extended, though
I once killed one which measured thirty-two inches. He frequents old abandoned houses and hollow
trees; and sometimes a cluster of them may be seen in the forest hanging head downwards from
the branch of a tree.

Goldsmith seems to have been aware that the vampire hangs in clusters; for in the Deserted
Village, speaking of America, he says:

  And matted woods, where birds forget to sing,
  But silent bats in drowsy clusters cling.

The vampire has a curious membrane which rises from the nose, and gives it a very singular
appearance. It has been remarked before that there are two species of vampire in Guiana, a
larger and a smaller. The larger sucks men and other animals; the smaller seems to confine
himself chiefly to birds. I learnt from a gentleman high up in the River Demerara that he was
completely unsuccessful with his fowls on account of the small vampire. He showed me some that
had been sucked the night before, and they were scarcely able to walk.

Some years ago I went to the River Paumaron with a Scotch gentleman, by name Tarbet. We hung
our hammocks in the thatched loft of a planter's house. Next morning I heard this gentleman
muttering in his hammock, and now and then letting fall an imprecation or two just about the
time he ought to have been saying his morning prayers. "What is the matter, sir?" said I softly.
"Is anything amiss?" "What's the matter?" answered he surlily; "why, the vampires have been
sucking me to death." As soon as there was light enough I went to his hammock and saw it much
stained with blood. "There," said he, thrusting his foot out of the hammock, "see how these
infernal imps have been drawing my life's blood." On examining his foot I found the vampire
had tapped his great toe: there was a wound somewhat less than that made by a leech; the blood
was still oozing from it; I conjectured he might have lost from ten to twelve ounces of blood.
Whilst examining it, I think I put him into a worse humour by remarking that a European surgeon
would not have been so generous as to have blooded him without making a charge. He looked up
in my face, but did not say a word: I saw he was of opinion that I had better have spared this
piece of ill-timed levity.

It was not the last punishment of this good gentleman in the River Paumaron. The next night
he was doomed to undergo a kind of ordeal unknown in Europe. There is a species of large red
ant in Guiana sometimes called ranger, sometimes coushie. These ants march in millions through
the country in compact order, like a regiment of soldiers: they eat up every insect in their
march; and if a house obstruct their route, they do not turn out of the way, but go quite through
it. Though they sting cruelly when molested, the planter is not sorry to see them in his house,
for it is but a passing visit, and they destroy every kind of insect-vermin that has taken
shelter under his roof.

Now in the British plantations of Guiana, as well as in Europe, there is always a little temple
dedicated to the goddess Cloacina. Our dinner had chiefly consisted of crabs dressed in rich
and different ways. Paumaron is famous for crabs, and strangers who go thither consider them
the greatest luxury. The Scotch gentleman made a very capital dinner on crabs; but this change
of diet was productive of unpleasant circumstances: he awoke in the night in that state in
which Virgil describes Caeleno to have been, viz. "faedissima ventris proluvies." Up he got
to verify the remark:

  Serius aut citius, sedem properamus ad unam.

Now, unluckily for himself and the nocturnal tranquillity of the planter's house, just at that
unfortunate hour the coushie-ants were passing across the seat of Cloacina's temple. He had
never dreamed of this; and so, turning his face to the door, he placed himself in the usual
situation which the votaries of the goddess generally take. Had a lighted match dropped upon
a pound of gunpowder, as he afterwards remarked, it could not have caused a greater recoil.
Up he jumped and forced his way out, roaring for help and for a light, for he was worried alive
by ten thousand devils. The fact is he had sat down upon an intervening body of coushie-ants.
Many of those which escaped being crushed to death turned again, and in revenge stung the unintentional
intruder most severely. The watchman had fallen asleep, and it was some time before a light
could be procured, the fire having gone out; in the meantime the poor gentleman was suffering
an indescribable martyrdom, and would have found himself more at home in the Augean stable
than in the planter's house.

I had often wished to have been once sucked by the vampire in order that I might have it in
my power to say it had really happened to me. There can be no pain in the operation, for the
patient is always asleep when the vampire is sucking him; and as for the loss of a few ounces
of blood, that would be a trifle in the long run. Many a night have I slept with my foot out
of the hammock to tempt this winged surgeon, expecting that he would be there, but it was all
in vain; the vampire never sucked me, and I could never account for his not doing so, for we
were inhabitants of the same loft for months together.

The armadillo is very common in these forests; he burrows in the sandhills like a rabbit. As
it often takes a considerable time to dig him out of his hole, it would be a long and laborious
business to attack each hole indiscriminately without knowing whether the animal were there
or not. To prevent disappointment the Indians carefully examine the mouth of the hole, and
put a short stick down it. Now if, on introducing the stick, a number of mosquitos come out,
the Indians know to a certainty that the armadillo is in it: whenever there are no mosquitos
in the hole there is no armadillo. The Indian having satisfied himself that the armadillo is
there by the mosquitos which come out, he immediately cuts a long and slender stick and introduces
it into the hole. He carefully observes the line the stick takes, and then sinks a pit in the
sand to catch the end of it: this done, he puts it farther into the hole, and digs another
pit, and so on, till at last he comes up with the armadillo, which had been making itself a
passage in the sand till it had exhausted all its strength through pure exertion. I have been
sometimes three-quarters of a day in digging out one armadillo, and obliged to sink half a
dozen pits seven feet deep before I got up to it. The Indians and negroes are very fond of
the flesh, but I considered it strong and rank.

On laying hold of the armadillo you must be cautious not to come in contact with his feet:
they are armed with sharp claws, and with them he will inflict a severe wound in self-defence.
When not molested he is very harmless and innocent: he would put you in mind of the hare in
Gay's fables:

  Whose care was never to offend,
  And every creature was her friend.

The armadillo swims well in time of need, but does not go into the water by choice. He is very
seldom seen abroad during the day; and when surprised, he is sure to be near the mouth of his
hole. Every part of the armadillo is well protected by his shell, except his ears. In life
this shell is very limber, so that the animal is enabled to go at full stretch or roll himself
up into a ball, as occasion may require.

On inspecting the arrangement of the shell, it puts you very much in mind of a coat of armour;
indeed, it is a natural coat of armour to the armadillo, and being composed both of scale and
bone it affords ample security, and has a pleasing effect.

Often, when roving in the wilds, I would fall in with the land-tortoise; he too adds another
to the list of unoffending animals. He subsists on the fallen fruits of the forest. When an
enemy approaches he never thinks of moving, but quietly draws himself under his shell and there
awaits his doom in patience. He only seems to have two enemies who can do him any damage: one
of these is the boa-constrictor--this snake swallows the tortoise alive, shell and all. But
a boa large enough to do this is very scarce, and thus there is not much to apprehend from
that quarter. The other enemy is man, who takes up the tortoise and carries him away. Man also
is scarce in these never-ending wilds, and the little depredations he may commit upon the tortoise
will be nothing, or a mere trifle. The tiger's teeth cannot penetrate its shell, nor can a
stroke of his paws do it any damage. It is of so compact and strong a nature that there is
a common saying, a London waggon might roll over it and not break it.

Ere we proceed, let us take a retrospective view of the five animals just enumerated: they
are all quadrupeds, and have some very particular mark or mode of existence different from
all other animals. The sloth has four feet, but never can use them to support his body on the
earth: they want soles, which are a marked feature in the feet of other animals. The ant- bear
has not a tooth in his head, still he roves fearless on in the same forests with the jaguar
and boa-constrictor. The vampire does not make use of his feet to walk, but to stretch a membrane
which enables him to go up into an element where no other quadruped is seen. The armadillo
has only here and there a straggling hair, and has neither fur nor wool nor bristles, but in
lieu of them has received a movable shell on which are scales very much like those of fishes.
The tortoise is oviparous, entirely without any appearance of hair, and is obliged to accommodate
itself to a shell which is quite hard and inflexible, and in no point of view whatever obedient
to the will or pleasure of the bearer. The egg of the tortoise has a very hard shell, while
that of the turtle is quite soft.

In some parts of these forests I saw the vanilla growing luxuriantly. It creeps up the trees
to the height of thirty or forty feet. I found it difficult to get a ripe pod, as the monkeys
are very fond of it, and generally took care to get there before me. The pod hangs from the
tree in the shape of a little scabbard. Vayna is the Spanish for a scabbard, and vanilla for
a little scabbard. Hence the name.

In Mibiri Creek there was a cayman of the small species, measuring about five feet in length;
I saw it in the same place for months, but could never get a shot at it, for, the moment I
thought I was sure of it, it dived under the water before I could pull the trigger. At last
I got an Indian with his bow and arrow: he stood up in the canoe with his bow ready bent, and
as we drifted past the place he sent his arrow into the cayman's eye, and killed it dead. The
skin of this little species is much harder and stronger than that of the large kind; it is
good food, and tastes like veal.

My friend Mr. Edmonstone had very kindly let me have one of his old negroes, and he constantly
attended me: his name was Daddy Quashi. He had a brave stomach for heterogeneous food; it could
digest and relish, too, caymen, monkeys, hawks and grubs. The Daddy made three or four meals
on this cayman while it was not absolutely putrid, and salted the rest. I could never get him
to face a snake; the horror he betrayed on seeing one was beyond description. I asked him why
he was so terribly alarmed. He said it was by seeing so many dogs from time to time killed by them.

Here I had a fine opportunity of examining several species of the caprimulgus. I am fully persuaded
that these innocent little birds never suck the herds, for when they approach them, and jump
up at their udders, it is to catch the flies and insects there. When the moon shone bright
I would frequently go and stand within three yards of a cow, and distinctly see the caprimulgus
catch the flies on its udder. On looking for them in the forest during the day, I either found
them on the ground, or else invariably sitting longitudinally on the branch of a tree, not
crosswise, like all other birds.

The wasps, or maribuntas, are great plagues in these forests, and require the naturalist to
be cautious as he wanders up and down. Some make their nests pendent from the branches; others
have them fixed to the underside of a leaf. Now, in passing on, if you happen to disturb one
of these, they sally forth and punish you severely. The largest kind is blue: it brings blood
where its sting enters, and causes pain and inflammation enough to create a fever. The Indians
make a fire under the nest, and, after killing or driving away the old ones, they roast the
young grubs in the comb and eat them. I tried them once by way of dessert after dinner, but
my stomach was offended at their intrusion; probably it was more the idea than the taste that
caused the stomach to rebel.

Time and experience have convinced me that there is not much danger in roving amongst snakes
and wild beasts, provided only that you have self- command. You must never approach them abruptly;
if so, you are sure to pay for your rashness, because the idea of self-defence is predominant
in every animal, and thus the snake, to defend himself from what he considers an attack upon
him, makes the intruder feel the deadly effect of his poisonous fangs. The jaguar flies at
you, and knocks you senseless with a stroke of his paw; whereas, if you had not come upon him
too suddenly, it is ten to one but that he had retired in lieu of disputing the path with you.
The labarri-snake is very poisonous, and I have often approached within two yards of him without
fear. I took care to move very softly and gently, without moving my arms, and he always allowed
me to have a fine view of him without showing the least inclination to make a spring at me.
He would appear to keep his eye fixed on me as though suspicious, but that was all. Sometimes
I have taken a stick ten feet long and placed it on the labarri's back. He would then glide
away without offering resistance. But when I put the end of the stick abruptly to his head,
he immediately opened his mouth, flew at it, and bit it.

One day, wishful to see how the poison comes out of the fang of the snake, I caught a labarri
alive. He was about eight feet long. I held him by the neck, and my hand was so near his jaw
that he had not room to move his head to bite it. This was the only position I could have held
him in with safety and effect. To do so it only required a little resolution and coolness.
I then took a small piece of stick in the other hand and pressed it against the fang, which
is invariably in the upper jaw. Towards the point of the fang there is a little oblong aperture
on the convex side of it. Through this there is a communication down the fang to the root,
at which lies a little bag containing the poison. Now, when the point of the fang is pressed,
the root of the fang also presses against the bag, and sends up a portion of the poison therein
contained. Thus, when I applied a piece of stick to the point of the fang, there came out of
the hole a liquor thick and yellow, like strong camomile-tea. This was the poison which is
so dreadful in its effects as to render the labarri-snake one of the most poisonous in the
forests of Guiana. I once caught a fine labarri and made it bite itself. I forced the poisonous
fang into its belly. In a few minutes I thought it was going to die, for it appeared dull and
heavy. However, in half an hour's time he was as brisk and vigorous as ever, and in the course
of the day showed no symptoms of being affected. Is then the life of the snake proof against
its own poison? This subject is not unworthy of the consideration of the naturalist.

In Guiana there is a little insect in the grass and on the shrubs which the French call bete-rouge.
It is of a beautiful scarlet colour, and so minute that you must bring your eye close to it
before you can perceive it. It is most numerous in the rainy season. Its bite causes an intolerable
itching. The best way to get rid of it is to rub the part affected with oil or rum. You must
be careful not to scratch it. If you do so, and break the skin, you expose yourself to a sore.
The first year I was in Guiana the bete- rouge and my own want of knowledge, and, I may add,
the little attention I paid to it, created an ulcer above the ankle which annoyed me for six
months, and if I hobbled out into the grass a number of bete-rouge would settle on the edges
of the sore and increase the inflammation.

Still more inconvenient, painful and annoying is another little pest called the chegoe. It
looks exactly like a very small flea, and a stranger would take it for one. However, in about
four and twenty hours he would have several broad hints that he had made a mistake in his ideas
of the animal. It attacks different parts of the body, but chiefly the feet, betwixt the toe-nails
and the flesh. There it buries itself, and at first causes an itching not unpleasant. In a
day or so, after examining the part, you perceive a place about the size of a pea, somewhat
discoloured, rather of a blue appearance. Sometimes it happens that the itching is so trivial,
you are not aware that the miner is at work. Time, they say, makes great discoveries. The discoloured
part turns out to be the nest of the chegoe, containing hundreds of eggs, which, if allowed
to hatch there, the young ones will soon begin to form other nests, and in time cause a spreading
ulcer. As soon as you perceive that you have got the chegoe in your flesh, you must take a
needle or a sharp-pointed knife and take it out. If the nest be formed, great care must be
taken not to break it, otherwise some of the eggs remain in the flesh, and then you will soon
be annoyed with more chegoes. After removing the nest it is well to drop spirit of turpentine
into the hole: that will most effectually destroy any chegoe that may be lurking there. Sometimes
I have taken four nests out of my feet in the course of the day.

Every evening, before sundown, it was part of my toilette to examine my feet and see that they
were clear of chegoes. Now and then a nest would escape the scrutiny, and then I had to smart
for it a day or two after. A chegoe once lit upon the back of my hand; wishful to see how he
worked, I allowed him to take possession. He immediately set to work, head foremost, and in
about half an hour he had completely buried himself in the skin. I then let him feel the point
of my knife, and exterminated him.

More than once, after sitting down upon a rotten stump, I have found myself covered with ticks.
There is a short and easy way to get quit of these unwelcome adherents. Make a large fire and
stand close to it, and if you be covered with ticks they will all fall off.

Let us now forget for awhile the quadrupeds, serpents and insects, and take a transitory view
of the native Indians of these forests.

There are five principal nations or tribes of Indians in ci-devant Dutch Guiana, commonly known
by the name of Warow, Arowack, Acoway, Carib and Macoushi. They live in small hamlets, which
consist of a few huts, never exceeding twelve in number. These huts are always in the forest,
near a river or some creek. They are open on all sides (except those of the Macoushi), and
covered with a species of palm-leaf.

Their principal furniture is the hammock. It serves them both for chair and bed. It is commonly
made of cotton; though those of the Warows are formed from the aeta-tree. At night they always
make a fire close to it. The heat keeps them warm, and the smoke drives away the mosquitos
and sand-flies. You sometimes find a table in the hut; but it was not made by the Indians,
but by some negro or mulatto carpenter.

They cut down about an acre or two of the trees which surround the huts, and there plant pepper,
papaws, sweet and bitter cassava, plantains, sweet potatoes, yams, pine-apples and silk-grass.
Besides these, they generally have a few acres in some fertile part of the forest for their
cassava, which is as bread to them. They make earthen pots to boil their provisions in; and
they get from the white men flat circular plates of iron on which they bake their cassava.
They have to grate the cassava before it is pressed preparatory to baking; and those Indians
who are too far in the wilds to procure graters from the white men make use of a flat piece
of wood studded with sharp stones. They have no cows, horses, mules, goats, sheep or asses.
The men hunt and fish, and the women work in the provision- ground and cook their victuals.

In each hamlet there is the trunk of a large tree hollowed out like a trough. In this, from
their cassava, they make an abominable ill-tasted and sour kind of fermented liquor called
piwarri. They are very fond of it, and never fail to get drunk after every brewing. The frequency
of the brewing depends upon the superabundance of cassava.

Both men and women go without clothes. The men have a cotton wrapper, and the women a bead-ornamented
square piece of cotton about the size of your hand for the fig-leaf. Those far away in the
interior use the bark of a tree for this purpose. They are a very clean people, and wash in
the river or creek at least twice every day. They paint themselves with the roucou, sweetly
perfumed with hayawa or accaiari. Their hair is black and lank, and never curled. The women
braid it up fancifully, something in the shape of Diana's head-dress in ancient pictures. They
have very few diseases. Old age and pulmonary complaints seem to be the chief agents for removing
them to another world. The pulmonary complaints are generally brought on by a severe cold,
which they do not know how to arrest in its progress by the use of the lancet. I never saw
an idiot amongst them, nor could I perceive any that were deformed from their birth. Their
women never perish in childbed, owing, no doubt, to their never wearing stays.

They have no public religious ceremony. They acknowledge two superior beings--a good one and
a bad one. They pray to the latter not to hurt them, and they are of opinion that the former
is too good to do the man injury. I suspect, if the truth were known, the individuals of the
village never offer up a single prayer or ejaculation. They have a kind of a priest called
a Pee-ay-man, who is an enchanter. He finds out things lost. He mutters prayers to the evil
spirit over them and their children when they are sick. If a fever be in the village, the Pee-ay-man
goes about all night long howling and making dreadful noises, and begs the bad spirit to depart.
But he has very seldom to perform this part of his duty, as fevers seldom visit the Indian
hamlets. However, when a fever does come, and his incantations are of no avail, which I imagine
is most commonly the case, they abandon the place for ever and make a new settlement elsewhere.
They consider the owl and the goat-sucker as familiars of the evil spirit, and never destroy them.

I could find no monuments or marks of antiquity amongst these Indians; so that, after penetrating
to the Rio Branco from the shores of the Western Ocean, had anybody questioned me on this subject
I should have answered, I have seen nothing amongst these Indians which tells me that they
have existed here for a century; though, for aught I know to the contrary, they may have been
here before the Redemption, but their total want of civilisation has assimilated them to the
forests in which they wander. Thus an aged tree falls and moulders into dust and you cannot
tell what was its appearance, its beauties, or its diseases amongst the neighbouring trees;
another has shot up in its place, and after Nature has had her course it will make way for
a successor in its turn. So it is with the Indian of Guiana. He is now laid low in the dust;
he has left no record behind him, either on parchment or on a stone or in earthenware to say
what he has done. Perhaps the place where his buried ruins lie was unhealthy, and the survivors
have left it long ago and gone far away into the wilds. All that you can say is, the trees
where I stand appear lower and smaller than the rest, and from this I conjecture that some
Indians may have had a settlement here formerly. Were I by chance to meet the son of the father
who moulders here, he could tell me that his father was famous for slaying tigers and serpents
and caymen, and noted in the chase of the tapir and wild boar, but that he remembers little
or nothing of his grandfather.

They are very jealous of their liberty, and much attached to their own mode of living. Though
those in the neighbourhood of the European settlements have constant communication with the
whites, they have no inclination to become civilised. Some Indians who have accompanied white
men to Europe, on returning to their own land have thrown off their clothes and gone back into
the forests.

In Georgetown, the capital of Demerara, there is a large shed, open on all sides, built for
them by order of Government. Hither the Indians come with monkeys, parrots, bows and arrows,
and pegalls. They sell these to the white men for money, and too often purchase rum with it,
to which they are wonderfully addicted.

Government allows them annual presents in order to have their services when the colony deems
it necessary to scour the forests in quest of runaway negroes. Formerly these expeditions were
headed by Charles Edmonstone, Esq., now of Cardross Park, near Dumbarton. This brave colonist
never returned from the woods without being victorious. Once, in an attack upon the rebel-negroes'
camp, he led the way and received two balls in his body; at the same moment that he was wounded
two of his Indians fell dead by his side; he recovered, after his life was despaired of, but
the balls could never be extracted.

Since the above appeared in print I have had the account of this engagement with the negroes
in the forest from Mr. Edmonstone's own mouth.

He received four slugs in his body, as will be seen in the sequel.

The plantations of Demerara and Essequibo are bounded by an almost interminable extent of forest.
Hither the runaway negroes repair, and form settlements from whence they issue to annoy the
colonists, as occasion may offer.

In 1801 the runaway slaves had increased to an alarming extent. The Governor gave orders that
an expedition should be immediately organised and proceed to the woods under the command of
Charles Edmonstone, Esq. General Hislop sent him a corporal, a sergeant and eleven men, and
he was joined by a part of the colonial militia and by sixty Indians. With this force Mr. Edmonstone
entered the forest and proceeded in a direction towards Mahaica.

He marched for eight days through swamps and over places obstructed by fallen trees and the
bush-rope; tormented by myriads of mosquitos, and ever in fear of treading on the poisonous
snakes which can scarcely be distinguished from the fallen leaves.

At last he reached a wooded sandhill, where the Maroons had entrenched themselves in great
force. Not expecting to come so soon upon them, Mr. Edmonstone, his faithful man Coffee and
two Indian chiefs found themselves considerably ahead of their own party. As yet they were
unperceived by the enemy, but unfortunately one of the Indian chiefs fired a random shot at
a distant Maroon. Immediately the whole negro camp turned out and formed themselves in a crescent
in front of Mr. Edmonstone. Their chief was an uncommonly fine negro, above six feet in height;
and his head-dress was that of an African warrior, ornamented with a profusion of small shells.
He advanced undauntedly with his gun in his hand, and, in insulting language, called out to
Mr. Edmonstone to come on and fight him.

Mr. Edmonstone approached him slowly in order to give his own men time to come up; but they
were yet too far off for him to profit by this manoeuvre. Coffee, who carried his master's
gun, now stepped up behind him, and put the gun into his hand, which Mr. Edmonstone received
without advancing it to his shoulder.

He was now within a few yards of the Maroon chief, who seemed to betray some symptoms of uncertainty,
for, instead of firing directly at Mr. Edmonstone, he took a step sideways, and rested his
gun against a tree; no doubt with the intention of taking a surer aim. Mr. Edmonstone, on perceiving
this, immediately cocked his gun and fired it off, still holding it in the position in which
he had received it from Coffee. The whole of the contents entered the negro's body, and he
dropped dead on his face.

The negroes, who had formed in a crescent, now in their turn fired a volley, which brought
Mr. Edmonstone and his two Indian chiefs to the ground. The Maroons did not stand to reload,
but, on Mr. Edmonstone's party coming up, they fled precipitately into the surrounding forest.

Four slugs had entered Mr. Edmonstone's body. After coming to himself, on looking around he
saw one of the fallen Indian chiefs bleeding by his side. He accosted him by name and said
he hoped he was not much hurt. The dying Indian had just strength enough to answer, "Oh no,"--and
then expired. The other chief was lying quite dead. He must have received his mortal wound
just as he was in the act of cocking his gun to fire on the negroes; for it appeared that the
ball which gave him his death-wound had carried off the first joint of his thumb and passed
through his forehead. By this time his wife, who had accompanied the expedition, came up. She
was a fine young woman, and had her long black hair fancifully braided in a knot on the top
of her head, fastened with a silver ornament. She unloosed it, and, falling on her husband's
body, covered it with her hair, bewailing his untimely end with the most heart-rending cries.

The blood was now running out of Mr. Edmonstone's shoes. On being raised up, he ordered his
men to pursue the flying Maroons, requesting at the same time that he might be left where he
had fallen, as he felt that he was mortally wounded. They gently placed him on the ground,
and, after the pursuit of the Maroons had ended, the corporal and sergeant returned to their
commander and formed their men. On his asking what this meant, the sergeant replied, "I had
the General's orders, on setting out from town, not to leave you in the forest, happen what
might." By slow and careful marches, as much as the obstructions in the woods would admit of,
the party reached Plantation Alliance, on the bank of the Demerara, and from thence it crossed
the river to Plantation Vredestein.

The news of the rencounter had been spread far and wide by the Indians, and had already reached
town. The General, Captains Macrai and Johnstone and Doctor Dunkin proceeded to Vredestein.
On examining Mr. Edmonstone's wounds, four slugs were found to have entered the body: one was
extracted, the rest remained there till the year 1824, when another was cut out by a professional
gentleman of Port Glasgow. The other two still remain in the body; and it is supposed that
either one or both have touched a nerve, as they cause almost continual pain. Mr. Edmonstone
has commanded fifteen different expeditions in the forest in quest of the Maroons. The Colonial
Government has requited his services by freeing his property from all taxes and presenting
him a handsome sword and a silver urn, bearing the following inscription:

    Presented to CHARLES EDMONSTONE, Esq., by the Governor
    and Court of Policy of the Colony of Demerara, as a token of
    their esteem and the deep sense they entertain of the very great
    activity and spirit manifested by him, on various occasions, in
    his successful exertions for the internal security of the Colony.
   --January 1st, 1809.

I do not believe that there is a single Indian in ci-devant Dutch Guiana who can read or write,
nor am I aware that any white man has reduced their language to the rules of grammar; some
may have made a short manuscript vocabulary of the few necessary words, but that is all. Here
and there a white man, and some few people of colour, talk the language well. The temper of
the Indian of Guiana is mild and gentle, and he is very fond of his children.

Some ignorant travellers and colonists call these Indians a lazy race. Man in general will
not be active without an object. Now when the Indian has caught plenty of fish, and killed
game enough to last him for a week, what need has he to range the forest? He has no idea of
making pleasure-grounds. Money is of no use to him, for in these wilds there are no markets
for him to frequent, nor milliners' shops for his wife and daughters; he has no taxes to pay,
no highways to keep up, no poor to maintain, nor army nor navy to supply; he lies in his hammock
both night and day (for he has no chair or bed, neither does he want them), and in it he forms
his bow and makes his arrows and repairs his fishing-tackle. But as soon as he has consumed
his provisions, he then rouses himself and, like the lion, scours the forest in quest of food.
He plunges into the river after the deer and tapir, and swims across it; passes through swamps
and quagmires, and never fails to obtain a sufficient supply of food. Should the approach of
night stop his career while he is hunting the wild boar, he stops for the night and continues
the chase the next morning. In my way through the wilds to the Portuguese frontier I had a
proof of this: we were eight in number, six Indians, a negro and myself. About ten o'clock
in the morning we observed the feet-mark of the wild boars; we judged by the freshness of the
marks that they had passed that way early the same morning. As we were not gifted, like the
hound, with scent, and as we had no dog with us, we followed their track by the eye. The Indian
after game is as sure with his eye as the dog is with his nose. We followed the herd till three
in the afternoon, then gave up the chase for the present, made our fires close to a creek where
there was plenty of fish, and then arranged the hammocks. In an hour the Indians shot more
fish with their arrows than we could consume. The night was beautifully serene and clear, and
the moon shone as bright as day. Next morn we rose at dawn, got breakfast, packed up, each
took his burden, and then we put ourselves on the track of the wild boars which we had been
following the day before. We supposed that they too would sleep that night in the forest, as
we had done; and thus the delay on our part would be no disadvantage to us. This was just the
case, for about nine o'clock their feet-marks became fresher and fresher: we now doubled, our
pace, but did not give mouth like hounds. We pushed on in silence, and soon came up with them:
there were above one hundred of them. We killed six and the rest took off in different directions.
But to the point.

Amongst us the needy man works from light to dark for a maintenance. Should this man chance
to acquire a fortune, he soon changes his habits. No longer under "strong necessity's supreme
command," he contrives to get out of bed betwixt nine and ten in the morning. His servant helps
him to dress, he walks on a soft carpet to his breakfast-table, his wife pours out his tea,
and his servant hands him his toast. After breakfast the doctor advises a little gentle exercise
in the carriage for an hour or so. At dinner-time he sits down to a table groaning beneath
the weight of heterogeneous luxury: there he rests upon a chair for three or four hours, eats,
drinks and talks (often unmeaningly) till tea is announced. He proceeds slowly to the drawing-room,
and there spends best part of his time in sitting, till his wife tempts him with something
warm for supper. After supper he still remains on his chair at rest till he retires to rest
for the night. He mounts leisurely upstairs upon a carpet, and enters his bedroom: there, one
would hope that at least he mutters a prayer or two, though perhaps not on bended knee. He
then lets himself drop in to a soft and downy bed, over which has just passed the comely Jenny's
warming-pan. Now, could the Indian in his turn see this, he would call the white men a lazy,
indolent set.

Perhaps, then, upon due reflection you would draw this conclusion: that men will always be
indolent where there is no object to rouse them.

As the Indian of Guiana has no idea whatever of communicating his intentions by writing, he
has fallen upon a plan of communication sure and simple. When two or three families have determined
to come down the river and pay you a visit, they send an Indian beforehand with a string of
beads. You take one bead off every day, and on the day that the string is beadless they arrive
at your house.

In finding their way through these pathless wilds the sun is to them what Ariadne's clue was
to Theseus. When he is on the meridian they generally sit down, and rove onwards again as soon
as he has sufficiently declined to the west; they require no other compass. When in chase,
they break a twig on the bushes as they pass by, every three or four hundred paces, and this
often prevents them from losing their way on their return.

You will not be long in the forests of Guiana before you perceive how very thinly they are
inhabited. You may wander for a week together without seeing a hut. The wild beasts, snakes,
the swamps, the trees, the uncurbed luxuriance of everything around you conspire to inform
you that man has no habitation here--man has seldom passed this way.

