The disturbing element was, indeed, not far to seek. Close to one of the bridges was seated
a maiden, unknown to all of them, but lovely enough to hold the glance of old and young. Unlike
the natives she was tall and fair; masses of golden hair encircled her oval face and clustered
over her blue eyes. Who was she? Whence came she? None could answer. By degrees some of the
boldest of the youths approached, but their bluff manners seemed to displease her; though unaccustomed
to rebuffs they retired. One, however, among them fared differently. Jean Letocq, a member
of the family to which the hero belonged who near this very spot discovered the sleeping troops
of the Grand Sarrazin, was admired and beloved both by youths and maidens. First in every sport,
having shown courage and resource in times of peril both by sea and land, tender of glance
and gentle of tongue, he held a pre-eminence which none disputed, and which was above the reach
of envy. The fair stranger, from his first glance at her, had fascinated, enthralled him: his
eyes fastened greedily on her every movement; he noted well her reception of those who had
addressed her, and when he approached he came, bare-headed, with a low obeisance and a deferential
air. He seated himself by her in silence, after murmuring a few words of welcome to the feast,
to which she made no answer. Presently he spoke again, softly and courteously; she replied
without constraint, speaking his own language fluently, though with a foreign accent. The ice
once broken their talk rippled on, as is the wont of light words, brightly uttered. Jean drank
in each gentle phrase, watched every graceful gesture; his heart bounded when she carelessly
smiled. But he lost not his daring: when the musicians again struck up he boldly asked her
to join in the dance.

She was not offended, her look showed no displeasure, but she refused; he renewed his request;
suddenly a change came over her face, she looked rapidly round as though searching for some
one who was not present, a flash came into her eyes, she sprang to her feet. "Why should I
not dance!" she said; "they are merry, why should I alone be sad!" She let him lead her into
the ring. If she had been enchanting when seated, what was her power when she moved! She was
a model of grace and loveliness; the contrast of her colouring to that of her neighbours inspired
the superstitious with some terror, but made the braver spirits gaze more curiously, indifferent
to the half-concealed anger and affected disdain of their partners. Every moment she gained
more hearts, though she let her eyes rest only on those of Jean. After the dance was over she
seated herself in her former position; the women then, according to custom, retired outside
the stone circle, while the men clustered round the oak to award the prize. The ceremony had
up to this day been looked on as a pure formality: for the last two summers the wreath had
been by common consent placed on the brows of Suzanne Falla, and none who woke that morning
had doubted that it would rest there again before night. But now the men's heads were turned;
there was commotion both outside and inside the circle; then a hush, as the old men rose in
their places and the young men formed a lane to the tree. Jean stepped out, and taking the
stranger by the hand, led her to where a white-haired veteran stood with the wreath in his
hand. The next moment it was placed on her brows, and then all voices burst into a song of
triumph, which rang to the remotest glades of the forest. Suzanne did not join in the song;
her little heart was breaking; all the passion of her hot nature was roused; she felt herself
unfairly, unjustly, treated; insulted on the very day that was to have crowned her pride. She
could not control herself, nor could she accept her defeat: she stamped her foot on the ground,
and poured out a torrent of objurgation, accusing Jean of treachery, demanding to know whence
he had produced her rival, appealing to the elders to revise the judgment. Then, suddenly ceasing,
as she saw by the looks of those around her that while in some her fate created pity, in others
it gave rise to amusement, in many to the pleasure which poor human nature felt then as now
in a friend's misfortune, her mood altered: she turned and, rapidly leaving the crowd, crossed
one of the bridges. Hastening her steps, but not watching them, she tripped over the straggling
root of a yew, and fell, her temple striking a sharp boulder, one of many cropping up in the
forest. Poor girl! in one moment passion and pride had flown; she lay senseless, blood streaming
from the wound.

A quick revulsion of feeling swept through the impressionable people. Her departure had been
watched, the fall observed, and the serious nature of the accident was soon known; all hurried
to the spot where she lay, full of sympathy and distress. Jean, perhaps not altogether unremorseful,
was among the first to proffer aid; the stranger, left alone, took off the wreath and placed
it on one of the stones of the circle, by which she stood contemplating the scene.

The blow, struck deep into the temple, was beyond any ordinary means of cure; life indeed seemed
to be ebbing away. "Send for Marie!" the cry sprang from many mouths: "send for Marie the wise
woman! she alone can save her!" Three or four youths ran hastily off.

"Wish ye for Marie Torode's body or her spirit?" said a harsh female voice; "her body ye can
have! but what avail closed eyes and rigid limbs? Her spirit, tossed by the whirling death-blast,
is beyond your reach!"

The speaker, on whom all eyes turned, was an aged woman of unusual height; her snow-white hair
was confined by a metal circlet, her eyes were keen and searching, her gestures imperious;
her dress was simple and would have been rude but for the quaintly ornamented silver girdle
that bound her waist, and the massive bracelets on her arms. Like the girl she was seen for
the first time; her almost supernatural appearance inspired wonder and awe. She bent over the
prostrate form: "Marie said with her last breath," she muttered to herself, "that ere the oaks
were green again the sweetest maidens in the island would be in her embrace, but she cannot
summon this one now! her vext spirit has not yet the power!"

She examined the wound, and raising herself said, "No human hand can save her. The Spirits
alone have power: those Spirits who prolong human life regardless of human ills; but they must
be besought, and who will care to beseech them?"

"Prayers may save her," answered a stern voice, "but not prayers to devils! The Holy Virgin
should we beseech, by whom all pure maidens are beloved. She will save her if it be God's will,
or receive her into her bosom if it be decreed that she should die."

The words were those of Father Austin, one of the monks of Lihou, distinguished by his sanctity
and the austerity of his habits. He was spare, as one who lived hardly; his grey eyes had a
dreamy look betokening much inward contemplation, though they could be keen enough when, as
now, the man was roused; there was a gentleness about his mouth which showed a nature filled
with love and sympathy.

The woman drew herself to her full stature, and turned on him a defiant look.

"Gods or devils!" she said in a ringing tone--"which you will! What can an immured anchorite
know of the vast mysteries of the wind-borne spirits? Is this child to live or die? My gods
can save her; if yours can, let them take her! She is nought to me."

"When Elijah wrestled with the prophets of Baal, where did victory rest?" said the priest,
and he too stooped down and inspected the wound. "She is past cure," he said, rising sadly;
"it remains but to pray for her soul."

