“Neither shalt thou commit adultery.

“Neither shalt thou steal.

“Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbor. It is, by its facts, limited to
the Jews, for they are the only people who were ever delivered from bondage in Egypt. And it
was broken in that day; and so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the
word of the Lord. And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear.
So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.” This language had its fulfillment in
the sale which Judas Iscariot made of his Lord and the abrogation of the ancient covenant or law.

The prophets were not confined to the kingdom of Israel, or to any one kingdom, nor yet to
any one dispensation.

They bore the word of the Lord to all the nations, as we learn from such language as this:
“The burden of the word of the Lord to Ninevah, to Sidon, to Tyre, to Idumea, to Babylon, to
Samaria, to Egypt,” and to many others. It is very remarkable that no such latitude or longitude
of relationships belongs to the ancient law. It was confined to the Israelites.

The Heavenly Father spake not to the ancients by his Son, but by the prophets. And much of
that which they spake pertained to our own dispensation and to our own religion.

Much, very much, of that which they gave lies in the very foundation of our religion. We should
always distinguish, carefully, between the Law and the prophets, and between these two and
the psalms, remembering, however, that prophesy belongs also to many of the psalms. The abrogated
covenant, or law, that was done away, was written upon stones. It, with all the laws which
were after its tenor, was supplanted by the law of Christ. It was added because of transgression
till Christ, “the seed,” should come. When he came it expired by limitation, and through his
authority the neighborly restrictions or limitations were taken off from moral precepts, which
were re-enacted by him.

THE FUNERAL SERVICES OF THE NATIONAL LIBERAL LEAGUE.

The decent members of the Liberal League, who formed it to express their convictions, and who
withdrew and formed a rival League when they found that the old organization had gone over
to the defense of indecency, who gave to the League all the character it had, and who had great
hopes at one time of destroying the influence of the preachers of the Gospel of Christ, and
thereby ridding our country of that terrible pest called the Bible, have given up their name.
Their “priests” have adopted the following arraignment of their old organization, a legitimate
child of their own:

“Voted that, in the judgment of this Board, the name ‘National Liberal League’ has become so
widely and injuriously associated in the public mind with attempts to repeal the postal laws
prohibiting the circulation of obscene literature by mail, with the active propagandism of
demoralizing and licentious social theories, and with the support of officials and other public
representatives who are on good grounds believed to have been guilty of gross immoralities,
that it has been thereby unfitted for use by any organization which desires the support of
the friends of ‘natural morality.’ ”

Thus the child went into a far country and fed among swine, and, failing to come to itself
and return to its father’s house, the old gentleman disinherited it, once and forever. A younger
son, however, is christened “Liberal Union,” and whether it will remain at home to take care
of the old man in his dotage remains to be seen.

HUXLEY’S PARADOX.

A writer in the Spectator charged Professor Huxley with Atheism.

THE TRIUMPHING REIGN OF LIGHT.

