LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

OF

POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

OCTOBER, 1880.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1880, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., in the Office
of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

A CHAPTER OF AMERICAN EXPLORATION.

Those adventurous gentlemen who derive exhilaration from peril, and extract febrifuge for the
high pressure of a too exuberant constitution from the difficulties of the Alps, cannot find
such peaks as the Aiguille Verte and the Matterhorn, with their friable and precipitous cliffs,
among the Rocky Mountains. The geological processes have been gentler in evolving the latter
than the former, and in the proper season summits not less elevated nor less splendid or comprehensive
than that of the Matterhorn, upon which so many lives have been defiantly wasted, may be attained
without any great degree of danger or fatigue. All but the apex may often be reached in the
saddle. The bergschrund with its fragile lip of ice, the crevasse with its treacherous bridges,
and the avalanche which an ill-timed footstep starts with overwhelming havoc, do not threaten
the explorer of the Western mountains; and ordinarily he passes from height to height--from
the base with its wreaths of evergreens to the zone where vegetation is limited to the gnarled
dwarf-pine, from the foot-hills to the basin of the crisp alpine lake far above the life-limits--without
once having to scale a cliff, supposing, of course, that he has chosen the best path. The trail
may be narrow at times, with nothing between it and a gulf, and it may be pitched at an angle
that compels the use of "all-fours;" but with patience and discretion the ultimate peak is
conquered without rope-ladder or ice-axe, and the vastness of the world below, gray and cold
at some hours, and at others lighted with a splendor which words cannot transcribe, is revealed
to the adventurer as satisfaction for his toil.

But, though what may be called the pure mountain-peaks do not entail the same perils and difficulties
as the members of the Alpine Club discover in Italy, France, Switzerland and Germany, the volcanic
cones and cañon-walls of the West have an unstable verticality which, when it is not absolutely
insurmountable, is more difficult than the top of the Matterhorn itself; and though the various
expeditions under Wheeler, Powell, King and Hayden have not had Aiguilles Vertes to oppose
them, they have been confronted by obstacles which could only be overcome by as much courage
as certain of the clubmen have required in their most celebrated exploits. Indeed, nothing
in the journals of the Alpine Club compares in the interest of the narrative or the peril of
the undertaking with Major Powell's exploration of the cañons of the Colorado, which, though
its history has become familiar to many readers through the official report, gathers significance
in contrast with all other Western expeditions, and stands out as an achievement of extraordinary
daring.

