In Rome the visitor follows Michael Angelo and Raphael through the various churches and museums.
The celebrated sibyls of Raphael are in the Santa Maria della Pace; his "Isaiah" is in San
Agostino and his "Entombment" in the Casino of the Villa Borghese. While the sublime work of
Michael Angelo in the Sistine Chapel is always one of the first things in Rome to which the
traveller goes to study that incomparable work portraying the Creation--the Prophets and the
Sibyls, the Angels and the Genii, that record the impassioned power of the master--yet all
footsteps turn quickly, too, to the church called San Pietro in Vincoli, near the house in
which Lucrezia Borgia lived, in which is the colossal Moses of Michael Angelo. As it stands,
it fails to convey the first design of the great sculptor. Originally intended for the tomb
of Pope Julius II, the plan included a massive block of marble (some forty by twenty feet)
surmounted by a cornice and having its niches, its columns, and its statues, of which the Moses
was to have been one. It would then have been judged relatively to the entire group, while
now it is seen alone, and thus out of the proportions that were in the mind of the artist.
The entire conception, indeed, was to unite sculpture and architecture into one splendid combination.
"Thus the statue of Moses was meant to have been raised considerably above the eye of the spectator,"
writes Mr. Hillard, "and to have been a single object in a colossal structure of architecture
and sculpture, which would have had a foreground and a background, and been crowned with a
mass at once dome-like and pyramidal. Torn, as it is, from its proper place; divorced from
its proportionate companionship; stuck against the wall of a church; and brought face to face
with the observer,--what wonder that so many of those who see it turn away with no other impressions
than those of caricature and exaggeration!"

Mr. Hillard adds:--

     "But who that can appreciate the sublime in art will fail to bow
     down before it as embodied in this wonderful statue? The majestic
     character of the head, the prodigious muscles of the chest and
     arms, and the beard that flows like a torrent to the waist,
     represent a being of more than mortal port and power, speaking with
     the authority, and frowning with the sanctions of incarnate law.
     The drapery of the lower part of the figure is inferior to the
     anatomy of the upper part. Remarkable as the execution of the
     statue is, the expression is yet more so; for notwithstanding its
     colossal proportions, its prominent characteristic is the
     embodiment of intellectual power. It is the great leader and
     lawgiver of his people that we see, whose voice was command, and
     whose outstretched arm sustained a nation's infant steps. He looks
     as if he might control the energies of nature as well as shape the
     mould in which the character of his people should be formed. That
     any one should stand before this statue in a scoffing mood is to me
     perfectly inexplicable. My own emotions were more nearly akin to
     absolute bodily fear. At an irreverent word, I should have expected
     the brow to contract into a darker frown, and the marble lips to
     unclose in rebuke."

William Watson condenses his impressions of this majestic sculpture in the following quatrain.--

    "The captain's might, and mystery of the seer--
      Remoteness of Jehovah's colloquist,
    Nearness of man's heaven-advocate--are here:
      Alone Mount Nebo's harsh foreshadow is miss'd."

