It seems that the Rutherford temper developed in the Princess as she grew older. Mrs. Swaney
was Juanita Sinclair; her father was a mild-mannered little man, who went out of doors to cough,
but her mother was a Rutherford--a big, stiff-necked, beer-bottle-shaped woman, who bossed
the missionary society until she divided the church. John Swaney, who is not a talkative man,
once got in a crowd at Smith's cigar-store where they were telling ghost stories, and his contribution
to the horror of the occasion was a relating of how, when they were fooling with tables, trying
to make them tip at his house one night at a family reunion, the spirit of Grandma Rutherford
appeared, split the table into kindling, dislocated three shoulder-blades and sprained five
wrists. It was this Rutherford temper that the Princess wore when she slouched around the house
in her mother-hubbard with her hair in papers. The girls in the office used to say that if
her mother over-cooked the Princess's egg in the morning she would rise grandly from the breakfast
table, tipping over her chair behind her, and rush to her room "to have a good cry," and the
whole family had to let the breakfast cool while they coaxed her down. That was the Rutherford
temper. Also, when they tried to teach her to cook, it was the Rutherford temper that broke
the dishes. Colonel Morrison once told us that when the Princess thought it was time to give
a party, the neighbours could see the Rutherford temper begin wig-wagging at the world through
the Princess's proud head, and there was nothing for her father to do but to kill the chickens,
run errands all day to the grocery store, and sit in the cellar freezing cream, and then go
to the barn at night to smoke. It was known in the neighbourhood that the Princess dragged
her shoestrings until noon, and that her bed was never in the memory of woman made up in the
daytime. We are Yankees in our town, and these things made more talk to the girl's discredit
than the story that she was keeping company with Red Martin!

But we at the office saw in the proud creature that passed our window so grandly nothing to
indicate her real self. The year that Red Martin came back to town the Princess used to turn
into Main Street in an afternoon, wearing the big black hat that cost her father a week's hard
work, looking as sweet as a jug of sorghum and as smiling as a basket of chips. Though women
sniffed at her, the men on the veranda of the Hotel Metropole craned their necks to watch her
out of sight. She jingled with chains and watches and lockets and chatelaines, carried more
rings than a cane rack, and walked with the air of the heroine of the society drama at the
opera house. When she was on parade she never even glanced toward our office, where she had
jeopardised her social position. She barely quivered a recognising eye-brow at the girls who
had worked with her, and they had their laugh at her, so matters were about even. But the office
girls say that, after the Princess eloped with Red Martin, she was glad to rush up and shake
hands with them. For we know in our town that the princess business does not last more than
ten days or two weeks after marriage; it is a trade of quick sales, short seasons and small
profits. The day that the elopement was the talk of the town, Colonel Alphabetical Morrison
was in the office. He said that he remembered Juanita Sinclair when she was a princess and
wore Dolly Varden clothes and was the playfullest kitten in the basketful that used to turn
out to the platform dances on Fourth of July, and appear as belles of the suppers given for
the Silver Cornet Band just after the war. "But," added the Colonel, "this town is full of
saffron-coloured old girls with wiry hair and sun-bleached eyes, who at one time or another
were in the princess business. Not only has every dog his day, but eventually every kitten
becomes a cat."

From the night of the charivari when Red Martin handed the boys twenty dollars--the largest
sum ever contributed to a similar purpose in the town's history--he and the Princess began
to slump. The sloughing off of the veneer of civilisation was not rapid, but it was sure. The
first pair of shoes that Red bought after his wedding were not patent leather, and, though
the porter of his gambling place blacked them every morning, still they were common leather,
and the boy noticed it. Likewise, the Princess had her hat retrimmed with her old plumes the
fall after her wedding, bought no new clothes, and wore her giddy spring jacket, thin as it
was, all winter, and after the second baby came no human being ever saw her in anything but
a wrapper, except when she was on Main Street.

The neighbours said she wore a wrapper so that she could have free use of her lungs, for when
Red and the Princess opened a family debate, the neighbours had to shut the doors and windows
and call in the children. Notwithstanding all the names that she called him in their lung-testing
events, there was no question about her love for the man. For, after the first year of her
marriage, though she lost interest in her clothes and ceased calling for the "fashion leaf"
at the dress-goods counter in the White Front, and let her hair go stringy, we around our office
knew that the Princess was only a child, who some way had lost interest in her old toys. When
God gives babies to children, the children forget their other dolls, and the Princess, when
the babies came, put away her other dolls, and played with the toys that came alive. And she
spanked them and fondled them and scolded them with the same empty-headed vanity that she used
to devote to her clothes.

Red Martin was one of the Princess's dearest dolls, and she and the babies were his toys; but,
being a boy, he did not care for them so much with the paint rubbed off, yet he did not neglect
them. Instead, he neglected himself. When the babies began to put grease spots on his clothes,
he did not clean them, and about the time his wife quit powdering, when she came to Main Street,
he stopped wearing collars. She grew fat and frowsy, and her chief interest in life seemed
to be to over-dress her children, and sometimes Red Martin encouraged her by bringing home
the most extravagant suits for the boys, and sometimes he abused her when the bills came in
for things which she had bought for the children, and asked why she did not buy something half-way
respectable-looking to wear herself. After each of their furious quarrels she would go over
the neighbourhood the next day and tell the neighbours that her mother had married her to a
gambler, and ask them what a gambler's wife could expect. If any neighbour woman agreed with
Mrs. Martin about her husband or her position Mrs. Martin would become angry and flounce out
of the house, but if the women spoke kindly of her husband she would berate him and weep, and
assure them that she had refused the banker, or the proprietor of the Bee Hive, or anyone else
who seemed to make her story possible.

By the time that the third baby was old enough to carry his baby sister and the fifth baby
was in the crib, Red Martin's face had begun to grow purple. He lost the gambling-room which
was once his pride; it was operated by a youth with a curly black moustache, whose clothes
recalled the days of Red's triumph. Red was only a dealer, and his trousers were frayed at
the bottom and he shaved but once a week. Then the Princess used to come slinking up Main Street
at night carrying a pistol under her coat to use if she found the woman with him. Who the woman
was the neighbours never knew, but the Princess gave them to understand that they would be
surprised if she told them. It was her vanity to pretend that the woman was a society leader,
as she called her, but the boys around the poker-dive knew that Red Martin's days as a heart-breaker
were gone. For what whisky and cocaine and absinthe could do for Red to hurry his end they
were doing, but a man is a strong beast, and it takes many years to kill him. Also, the Lord
saves men like Red for horrible examples, letting them live long that He may not have to waste
others; but women seem to have God's pity and He takes them out of their misery more quickly
than He takes men. With the coming of the seventh baby the Princess died. When the news came
to the office that she was gone we were not sorry, for life had held little for her. Her looks
were gone; her health was gone; her dreams were smudged out--pitiful and wretched and sordid
as they were, even at the best. Yet for all that George Kirwin took down to the funeral a wreath
which the office force bought for her.

To know George Kirwin casually one would say he never saw anything but the types and machinery
in the back room of our office. When he went among strangers he seemed to be looking always
at his hands or studying his knees, and his responses to those whom he did not know were "yea,
yea," and "nay, nay"; but that night he told us more about the funeral of the Princess than
all the reporters on the paper would have learned. He told us how the pitiful little parlour
with its advertising chromos and its soap-prize lamp was filled with the women who always come
to funerals in our town--funerals being their only diversion; how they sat in the undertaker's
chairs with their handkerchiefs carefully folded and in their hands during the first part of
the service, waiting for Brother Hopper to tell about his mother's death, which he never fails
to do at funerals, though the elders have spoken to him about it, as all the town knows; how
Red Martin, shaved for the occasion, and, in a borrowed suit of clothes, stood out by the well
and did not come into the house during the services; how only the elder children sat in the
front room with the other mourners, and how the prattle of the little ones in the kitchen ran
through the parson's prayer with heart-breaking insistence.

George seemed to think that the poverty-stricken little makeshifts to bring beauty into the
miserable home and keep up the appearance of a kind of gentility--perhaps for the children--was
the best thing he ever knew about the Princess, and he said that he was glad that he went to
the funeral for the geraniums in the crêpe paper covered tomato cans, the cheap lace curtains
at the windows, and the hair-wreath inheritance from the Swaneys, made him think that the best
of the Princess might have survived all the rack and calamity of the years.

When the funeral left the house the neighbour women came and put it in order, and there was
a better supper waiting for the father and the children than they had eaten for many years.
And then, after the dishes were put away, the neighbours left; and for what he tried to do
and be for the motherless brood just that one night, God will put down a good mark for Eli
Martin--even though the man failed most sadly.

When he went back to the gambling-room the next night, where he was porter; men tried not to
swear while he was in earshot, and the next day they swore only mild oaths around him, out
of respect for his grief, but the day after they forgot their compunctions, and, within a week,
Red Martin seemed to have forgotten, too. In time, the family was scattered over the earth--divided
among kin, and adopted out, and as the town grew older its conscience quickened and the gambling-room
was closed, whereupon Red Martin went to Huddleston's livery stable, where he worked for enough
to keep him in whisky and laudanum, and ate only when someone gave him food.

