~Precautions.~ In order to avoid danger it is absolutely necessary to prove that the hydrogen
is free from air before igniting it. This can be done by testing small amounts of the escaping
gas. A convenient and safe method of doing this is to fill a test tube with the gas by inverting
it over the jet. The hydrogen, on account of its lightness, collects in the tube, displacing
the air. After holding it over the jet for a few moments in order that it may be filled with
the gas, the tube is gently brought, mouth downward, to the flame of a burner placed not nearer
than an arm's length from the jet. If the hydrogen is mixed with air a slight explosion occurs,
but if pure it burns quietly in the tube. The operation is repeated until the gas burns quietly,
when the tube is quickly brought back over the jet for an instant, whereby the escaping hydrogen
is ignited by the flame in the tube.

~A mixture of hydrogen and oxygen is explosive.~ That a mixture of hydrogen and air is explosive
may be shown safely as follows: A cork through which passes a short glass tube about 1 cm.
in diameter is fitted air-tight into the tubule of a bell jar of 2 l. or 3 l. capacity. (A
thick glass bottle with bottom removed may be used.) The tube is closed with a small rubber
stopper and the bell jar filled with hydrogen, the gas being collected over water. When entirely
filled with the gas the jar is removed from the water and supported by blocks of wood in order
to leave the bottom of the jar open, as shown in Fig. 13. The stopper is now removed from the
tube in the cork, and the hydrogen, which on account of its lightness escapes from the tube,
is at once lighted. As the hydrogen escapes, the air flows in at the bottom of the jar and
mixes with the remaining portion of the hydrogen, so that a mixture of the two soon forms,
and a loud explosion results. The explosion is not dangerous, since the bottom of the jar is
open, thus leaving room for the expansion of the hot gas.

Since air is only one fifth oxygen, the remainder being inert gases, it may readily be inferred
that a mixture of hydrogen with pure oxygen would be far more explosive than a mixture of hydrogen
with air. Such mixtures should not be made except in small quantities and by experienced workers.

~Hydrogen does not support combustion.~ While hydrogen is readily combustible, it is not a
supporter of combustion. In other words, substances will not burn in it. This may be shown
by bringing a lighted candle supported by a stiff wire into a bottle or cylinder of the pure
gas, as shown in Fig. 14. The hydrogen is ignited by the flame of the candle and burns at the
mouth of the bottle, where it comes in contact with the oxygen in the air. When the candle
is thrust up into the gas, its flame is extinguished on account of the absence of oxygen. If
slowly withdrawn, the candle is relighted as it passes through the layer of burning hydrogen.

~Reduction.~ On account of its great affinity for oxygen, hydrogen has the power of abstracting
it from many of its compounds. Thus, if a stream of hydrogen, dried by passing through the
tube B (Fig. 15), filled with calcium chloride, is conducted through the tube C containing
some copper oxide, heated to a moderate temperature, the hydrogen abstracts the oxygen from
the copper oxide. The change may be represented as follows:

     hydrogen + {copper}                 {hydrogen}
                {oxygen}(copper oxide) = {oxygen  }(water) + copper

The water formed collects in the cold portions of the tube C near its end. In this experiment
the copper oxide is said to undergo reduction. Reduction may therefore be defined as the process
of withdrawing oxygen from a compound.

~Relation of reduction to oxidation.~ At the same time that the copper oxide is reduced it
is clear that the hydrogen is oxidized, for it combines with the oxygen given up by the copper
oxide. The two processes are therefore very closely related, and it usually happens that when
one substance is oxidized some other substance is reduced. That substance which gives up its
oxygen is called an oxidizing agent, while the substance which unites with the oxygen is called
a reducing agent.

~The oxyhydrogen blowpipe.~ This is a form of apparatus used for burning hydrogen in pure oxygen.
As has been previously stated, the flame produced by the combustion of hydrogen in the air
is very hot. It is evident that if pure oxygen is substituted for air, the temperature reached
will be much higher, since there are no inert gases to absorb the heat. The oxyhydrogen blowpipe,
used to effect this combination, consists of a small tube placed within a larger one, as shown
in Fig. 16.

The hydrogen, stored under pressure, generally in steel cylinders, is first passed through
the outer tube and ignited at the open end of the tube. The oxygen from a similar cylinder
is then conducted through the inner tube, and mixes with the hydrogen at the end of the tube.
In order to produce the maximum heat, the hydrogen and oxygen must be admitted to the blowpipe
in the exact proportion in which they combine, viz., 2 volumes of hydrogen to 1 of oxygen,
or by weight, 1 part of hydrogen to 7.94 parts of oxygen. The intensity of the heat may be
shown by bringing into the flame pieces of metal such as iron wire or zinc. These burn with
great brilliancy. Even platinum, having a melting point of 1779°, may be melted by the heat
of the flame.

While the oxyhydrogen flame is intensely hot, it is almost non-luminous. If directed against
some infusible substance like ordinary lime (calcium oxide), the heat is so intense that the
lime becomes incandescent and glows with a brilliant light. This is sometimes used as a source
of light, under the name of Drummond or lime light.

~The blast lamp.~ A similar form of apparatus is commonly used in the laboratory as a source
of heat under the name blast lamp (Fig. 17). This differs from the oxyhydrogen blowpipe only
in the size of the tubes. In place of the hydrogen and oxygen the more accessible coal gas
and air are respectively used. The former is composed largely of a mixture of free hydrogen
and gaseous compounds of carbon and hydrogen. While the temperature of the flame is not so
high as that of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe, it nevertheless suffices for most chemical operations
carried out in the laboratory.

~Uses of hydrogen.~ On account of its cost, hydrogen is but little used for commercial purposes.
It is sometimes used as a material for the inflation of balloons, but usually the much cheaper
coal gas is substituted for it. Even hot air is often used when the duration of ascension is
very short. It has been used also as a source of heat and light in the oxyhydrogen blowpipe.
Where the electric current is available, however, this form of apparatus has been displaced
almost entirely by the electric light and electric furnace, which are much more economical
and more powerful sources of light and heat.

EXERCISES

1. Will a definite weight of iron decompose an unlimited weight of steam?

2. Why is oxygen passed through the inner tube of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe rather than the outer?

3. In Fig. 14, will the flame remain at the mouth of the tube?

4. From Fig. 15, suggest a way for determining experimentally the quantity of water formed
in the reaction.

5. Distinguish clearly between the following terms: oxidation, reduction, combustion, and kindling
temperature.

6. Is oxidation always accompanied by reduction?

7. What is the source of heat in the lime light? What is the exact use of lime in this instrument?

8. In Fig. 12, why is it necessary to dry the hydrogen by means of the calcium chloride in
the tube X?

9. At what pressure would the weight of 1 l. of hydrogen be equal to that of oxygen under standard
conditions?

10. (a) What weight of hydrogen can be obtained from 150 g. of sulphuric acid? (b) What volume
would this occupy under standard conditions? (c) The density of sulphuric acid is 1.84. What
volume would the 150 g. of the acid occupy?

11. How many liters of hydrogen can be obtained from 50 cc. of sulphuric acid having a density
of 1.84?

12. Suppose you wish to fill five liter bottles with hydrogen, the gas to be collected over
water in your laboratory, how many cubic centimeters of sulphuric acid would be required?

CHAPTER IV

COMPOUNDS OF HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN; WATER AND HYDROGEN DIOXIDE

WATER

~Historical.~ Water was long regarded as an element. In 1781 Cavendish showed that it is formed
by the union of hydrogen and oxygen. Being a believer in the phlogiston theory, however, he
failed to interpret his results correctly. A few years later Lavoisier repeated Cavendish's
experiments and showed that water must be regarded as a compound of hydrogen and oxygen.

~General methods employed for the determination of the composition of a compound.~ The composition
of a compound may be determined by either of two general processes these are known as analysis
and synthesis.

1. Analysis is the process of decomposing a compound into its constituents and determining
what these constituents are. The analysis is qualitative when it results in merely determining
what elements compose the compound; it is quantitative when the exact percentage of each constituent
is determined. Qualitative analysis must therefore precede quantitative analysis, for it must
be known what elements, are in a compound before a method can be devised for determining exactly
how much of each is present.

2. Synthesis is the process of forming a compound from its constituent parts. It is therefore
the reverse of analysis. Like analysis, it may be either qualitative or quantitative.

~Application of these methods to the determination of the composition of water.~ The determination
of the composition of water is a matter of great interest not only because of the importance
of the compound but also because the methods employed illustrate the general methods of analysis
and synthesis.

~Methods based on analysis.~ The methods based on analysis may be either qualitative or quantitative
in character.

1. Qualitative analysis. As was stated in the study of oxygen, water may be separated into
its component parts by means of the electric current. The form of apparatus ordinarily used
for effecting this analysis is shown in Fig. 18. A platinum wire, to the end of which is attached
a small piece of platinum foil (about 15 mm. by 25 mm.), is fused through each of the tubes
B and D, as shown in the figure. The stopcocks at the ends of these tubes are opened and water,
to which has been added about one tenth of its volume of sulphuric acid, is poured into the
tube A until the side tubes B and D are completely filled. The stopcocks are then closed. The
platinum wires extending into the tubes B and D are now connected with the wires leading from
two or three dichromate cells joined in series. The pieces of platinum foil within the tubes
thus become the electrodes, and the current flows from one to the other through the acidulated
water. As soon as the current passes, bubbles of gas rise from each of the electrodes and collect
in the upper part of the tubes. The gas rising from the negative electrode is found to be hydrogen,
while that from the positive electrode is oxygen. It will be seen that the volume of the hydrogen
is approximately double that of the oxygen. Oxygen is more soluble in water than hydrogen,
and a very little of it is also lost by being converted into ozone and other substances. It
has been found that when the necessary corrections are made for the error due to these facts,
the volume of the hydrogen is exactly double that of the oxygen.

Fig. 19 illustrates a simpler form of apparatus, which may be used in place of that shown in
Fig. 18. A glass or porcelain dish is partially filled with water to which has been added the
proper amount of acid. Two tubes filled with the same liquid are inverted over the electrodes.
The gases resulting from the decomposition of the water collect in the tubes.

2. Quantitative analysis. The analysis just described is purely qualitative and simply shows
that water contains hydrogen and oxygen. It does not prove the absence of other elements; indeed
it does not prove that the hydrogen and oxygen are present in the proportion in which they
are liberated by the electric current. The method may be made quantitative, however, by weighing
the water decomposed and also the hydrogen and oxygen obtained in its decomposition. If the
combined weights of the hydrogen and oxygen exactly equal the weight of the water decomposed,
then it would be proved that the water consists of hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion in
which they are liberated by the electric current. This experiment is difficult to carry out,
however, so that the more accurate methods based on synthesis are used.

~Methods based on synthesis.~ Two steps are necessary to ascertain the exact composition of
water by synthesis: (1) to show by qualitative synthesis that water is formed by the union
of oxygen with hydrogen; (2) to determine by quantitative synthesis in what proportion the
two elements unite to form water. The fact that water is formed by the combination of oxygen
with hydrogen was proved in the preceding chapter. The quantitative synthesis may be made as
follows:

The combination of the two gases is brought about in a tube called a eudiometer. This is a
graduated tube about 60 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, closed at one end (Fig. 20). Near the closed
end two platinum wires are fused through the glass, the ends of the wires within the tube being
separated by a space of 2 mm or 3 mm. The tube is entirely filled with mercury and inverted
in a vessel of the same liquid. Pure hydrogen is passed into the tube until it is about one
fourth filled. The volume of the gas is then read off on the scale and reduced to standard
conditions. Approximately an equal volume of pure oxygen is then introduced and the volume
again read off and reduced to standard conditions. This gives the total volume of the two gases.
From this the volume of the oxygen introduced may be determined by subtracting from it the
volume of the hydrogen. The combination of the two gases is now brought about by connecting
the two platinum wires with an induction coil and passing a spark from one wire to the other.
Immediately a slight explosion occurs. The mercury in the tube is at first depressed because
of the expansion of the gases due to the heat generated, but at once rebounds, taking the place
of the gases which have combined to form water. The volume of the water in the liquid state
is so small that it may be disregarded in the calculations. In order that the temperature of
the residual gas and the mercury may become uniform, the apparatus is allowed to stand for
a few minutes. The volume of the gas is then read off and reduced to standard conditions, so
that it may be compared with the volumes of the hydrogen and oxygen originally taken. The residual
gas is then tested in order to ascertain whether it is hydrogen or oxygen, experiments having
proved that it is never a mixture of the two. From the information thus obtained the composition
of the water may be calculated. Thus, suppose the readings were as follows:

Volume of hydrogen taken                                          20.3 cc. Volume of hydrogen
and oxygen                                     38.7 Volume of oxygen                      
18.4 Volume of gas left after combination has taken place (oxygen)      8.3

The 20.3 cc. of hydrogen have combined with 18.4 cc. minus 8.3 cc. (or 10.1 cc.) of oxygen;
or approximately 2 volumes of hydrogen have combined with 1 of oxygen. Since oxygen is 15.88
times as heavy as hydrogen, the proportion by weight in which the two gases combine is 1 part
of hydrogen to 7.94 of oxygen.

~Precaution.~ If the two gases are introduced into the eudiometer in the exact proportions
in which they combine, after the combination has taken place the liquid will rise and completely
fill the tube. Under these conditions, however, the tube is very likely to be broken by the
sudden upward rush of the liquid. Hence in performing the experiment care is taken to introduce
an excess of one of the gases.

~A more convenient form of eudiometer.~ A form of eudiometer (Fig. 21) different from that
shown on page 43 is sometimes used to avoid the calculations necessary in reducing the volumes
of the gases to the same conditions of temperature and pressure in order to make comparisons.
With this apparatus it is possible to take the readings of the volumes under the same conditions
of temperature and pressure, and thus compare them directly. The apparatus (Fig. 21) is filled
with mercury and the gases introduced into the tube A. The experiment is carried out as in
the preceding one, except that before taking the reading of the gas volumes, mercury is either
added to the tube B or withdrawn from it by means of the stopcock C, until it stands at exactly
the same height in both tubes. The gas inclosed in tube A is then under atmospheric pressure;
and since but a few minutes are required for performing the experiment, the conditions of temperature
and pressure may be regarded as constant. Hence the volumes of the hydrogen and oxygen and
of the residual gas may be read off from the tube and directly compared.

~Method used by Berzelius and Dumas.~ The method used by these investigators enables us to
determine directly the proportion by weight in which the hydrogen and oxygen combine. Fig.
22 illustrates the apparatus used in making this determination. B is a glass tube containing
copper oxide. C and D are glass tubes filled with calcium chloride, a substance which has great
affinity for water. The tubes B and C, including their contents, are carefully weighed, and
the apparatus connected as shown in the figure. A slow current of pure hydrogen is then passed
through A, and that part of the tube B which contains copper oxide is carefully heated. The
hydrogen combines with the oxygen present in the copper oxide to form water, which is absorbed
by the calcium chloride in tube C. The calcium chloride in tube D prevents any moisture entering
tube C from the air. The operation is continued until an appreciable amount of water has been
formed. The tubes B and C are then weighed once more. The loss of weight in the tube B will
exactly equal the weight of oxygen taken up from the copper oxide in the formation of the water.
The gain in weight in the tube C will exactly equal the weight of the water formed. The difference
in these weights will of course equal the weight of the hydrogen present in the water formed.

~Dumas' results.~ The above method for the determination of the composition of water was first
used by Berzelius in 1820. The work was repeated in 1843 by Dumas, the average of whose results
is as follows:

Weight of water formed                  236.36 g.
Oxygen given up by the copper oxide     210.04
                                        ------
Weight of hydrogen present in water      26.32

According to this experiment the ratio of hydrogen to oxygen in water is therefore 26.32 to
210.04, or as l to 7.98

~Morley's results.~ The American chemist Morley has recently determined the composition of
water, extreme precautions being taken to use pure materials and to eliminate all sources of
error. The hydrogen and oxygen which combined, as well as the water formed, were all accurately
weighed. According to Morley's results, 1 part of hydrogen by weight combines with 7.94 parts
of oxygen to form water.

~Comparison of results obtained.~ From the above discussions it is easy to see that it is by
experiment alone that the composition of a compound can be determined. Different methods may
lead to slightly different results. The more accurate the method chosen and the greater the
skill with which the experiment is carried out, the more accurate will be the results. It is
generally conceded by chemists that the results obtained by Morley in reference to the composition
of water are the most accurate ones. In accordance with these results, then, water must be
regarded as a compound containing hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion of 1 part by weight
of hydrogen to 7.94 parts by weight of oxygen.

~Relation between the volume of aqueous vapor and the volumes of the hydrogen and oxygen which
combine to form it.~ When the quantitative synthesis of water is carried out in the eudiometer
as described above, the water vapor formed by the union of the hydrogen and oxygen at once
condenses. The volume of the resulting liquid is so small that it may be disregarded in making
the calculations. If, however, the experiment is carried out at a temperature of 100° or above,
the water-vapor formed is not condensed and it thus becomes possible to compare the volume
of the vapor with the volumes of hydrogen and oxygen which combined to form it. This can be
accomplished by surrounding the arm A of the eudiometer (Fig. 23) with the tube B through which
is passed the vapor obtained by boiling some liquid which has a boiling point above 100°. In
this way it has been proved that 2 volumes of hydrogen and 1 volume of oxygen combine to form
exactly 2 volumes of water vapor, the volumes all being measured under the same conditions
of temperature and pressure. It will be noted that the relation between these volumes may be
expressed by whole numbers. The significance of this very important fact will be discussed
in a subsequent chapter.

~Occurrence of water.~ Water not only covers about three fourths of the surface of the earth,
and is present in the atmosphere in the form of moisture, but it is also a common constituent
of the soil and rocks and of almost every form of animal and vegetable organism. The human
body is nearly 70% water. This is derived not only from the water which we drink but also from
the food which we eat, most of which contains a large percentage of water. Thus potatoes contain
about 78% of water, milk 85%, beef over 50%, apples 84%, tomatoes 94%.

~Impurities in water.~ Chemically pure water contains only hydrogen and oxygen. Such a water
never occurs in nature, however, for being a good solvent, it takes up certain substances from
the rocks and soil with which it comes in contact. When such waters are evaporated these substances
are deposited in the form of a residue. Even rain water, which is the purest form occurring
in nature, contains dust particles and gases dissolved from the atmosphere. The foreign matter
in water is of two kinds, namely, mineral, such as common salt and limestone, and organic,
that is the products of animal and vegetable life.

     ~Mineral matter in water.~ The amount and nature of the mineral
     matter present in different waters vary greatly, depending on
     the character of the rocks and soil with which the waters come
     in contact. The more common of the substances present are
     common salt and compounds of calcium, magnesium, and iron. One
     liter of the average river water contains about 175 mg. of
     mineral matter. Water from deep wells naturally contains more
     mineral matter than river water, generally two or three times
     as much, while sea water contains as much as 35,000 mg. to the
     liter.

~Effect of impurities on health.~ The mineral matter in water does not, save in very exceptional
cases, render the water injurious to the human system. In fact the presence of a certain amount
of such matter is advantageous, supplying the mineral constituents necessary for the formation
of the solid tissues of the body. The presence of organic matter, on the other hand, must always
be regarded with suspicion. This organic matter may consist not only of the products of animal
and vegetable life but also of certain microscopic forms of living organisms which are likely
to accompany such products. Contagious diseases are known to be due to the presence in the
body of minute living organisms or germs. Each disease is caused by its own particular kind
of germ. Through sewage these germs may find their way from persons afflicted with disease
into the water supply, and it is principally through the drinking water that certain of these
diseases, especially typhoid fever, are spread. It becomes of great importance, therefore,
to be able to detect such matter when present in drinking water as well as to devise methods
whereby it can be removed or at least rendered harmless.

     ~Analysis of water.~ The mineral analysis of a water is, as the
     name suggests, simply the determination of the mineral matter
     present. Sanitary analysis, on the other hand, is the
     determination of the organic matter present. The physical
     properties of a water give no conclusive evidence as to its
     purity, since a water may be unfit for drinking purposes and
     yet be perfectly clear and odorless. Neither can any reliance
     be placed on the simple methods often given for testing the
     purity of water. Only the trained chemist can carry out such
     methods of analysis as can be relied upon.

~Purification of water.~ Three general methods are used for the purification of water, namely,
distillation, filtration, and boiling.

1. Distillation. The most effective way of purifying natural waters is by the process of distillation.
This consists in boiling the water and condensing the steam. Fig. 24 illustrates the process
of distillation, as commonly conducted in the laboratory. Ordinary water is poured into the
flask A and boiled. The steam is conducted through the condenser B, which consists essentially
of a narrow glass tube sealed within a larger one, the space between the two being filled with
cold water, which is admitted at C and escapes at D. The inner tube is thus kept cool and the
steam in passing through it is condensed. The water formed by the condensation of the steam
collects in the receiver E and is known as distilled water. Such water is practically pure,
since the impurities are nonvolatile and remain in the flask A.

     ~Commercial distillation.~ In preparing distilled water on a
     large scale, the steam is generated in a boiler or other metal
     container and condensed by passing it through a pipe made of
     metal, generally tin. This pipe is wound into a spiral and is
     surrounded by a current of cold water. Distilled water is used
     by the chemist in almost all of his work. It is also used in
     the manufacture of artificial ice and for drinking water.

     ~Fractional distillation.~ In preparing distilled water, it is
     evident that if the natural water contains some substance which
     is volatile its vapor will pass over and be condensed with the
     steam, so that the distillate will not be pure water. Even such
     mixtures, however, may generally be separated by repeated
     distillation. Thus, if a mixture of water (boiling point 100°)
     and alcohol (boiling point 78°) is distilled, the alcohol,
     having the lower boiling point, tends to distill first,
     followed by the water. The separation of the two is not
     perfect, however, but may be made nearly so by repeated
     distillations. The process of separating a mixture of volatile
     substances by distillation is known as fractional
     distillation.

2. Filtration. The process of distillation practically removes all nonvolatile foreign matter,
mineral as well as organic. In purifying water for drinking purposes, however, it is only necessary
to eliminate the latter or to render it harmless. This is ordinarily done either by filtration
or boiling. In filtration the water is passed through some medium which will retain the organic
matter. Ordinary charcoal is a porous substance and will condense within its pores the organic
matter in water if brought in contact with it. It is therefore well adapted to the construction
of filters. Such filters to be effective must be kept clean, since it is evident that the charcoal
is useless after its pores are filled. A more effective type of filter is the Chamberlain-Pasteur
filter. In this the water is forced through a porous cylindrical cup, the pores being so minute
as to strain out the organic matter.

     ~City filtration beds.~ For purifying the water supply of cities,
     large filtration beds are prepared from sand and gravel, and
     the water is allowed to filter through these. Some of the
     impurities are strained out by the filter, while others are
     decomposed by the action of certain kinds of bacteria present
     in the sand. Fig. 25 shows a cross section of a portion of the
     filter used in purifying the water supply of Philadelphia. The
     water filters through the sand and gravel and passes into the
     porous pipe A, from which it is pumped into the city mains.
     The filters are covered to prevent the water from freezing in
     cold weather.

3. Boiling. A simpler and equally efficient method for purifying water for drinking purposes
consists in boiling the water. It is the germs in water that render it dangerous to health.
These germs are living forms of matter. If the water is boiled, the germs are killed and the
water rendered safe. While these germs are destroyed by heat, cold has little effect upon them.
Thus Dewar, in working with liquid hydrogen, exposed some of these minute forms of life to
the temperature of boiling hydrogen (-252°) without killing them.

~Self-purification of water.~ It has long been known that water contaminated with organic matter
tends to purify itself when exposed to the air. This is due to the fact that the water takes
up a small amount of oxygen from the air, which gradually oxidizes the organic matter present
in the water. While water is undoubtedly purified in this way, the method cannot be relied
upon to purify a contaminated water so as to render it safe for drinking purposes.

~Physical properties.~ Pure water is an odorless and tasteless liquid, colorless in thin layers,
but having a bluish tinge when observed through a considerable thickness. It solidifies at
0° and boils at 100° under the normal pressure of one atmosphere. If the pressure is increased,
the boiling point is raised. When water is cooled it steadily contracts until the temperature
of 4° is reached: it then expands. Water is remarkable for its ability to dissolve other substances,
and is the best solvent known. Solutions of solids in water are more frequently employed in
chemical work than are the solid substances, for chemical action between substances goes on
more readily when they are in solution than it does when they are in the solid state.

~Chemical properties.~ Water is a very stable substance, or, in other words, it does not undergo
decomposition readily. To decompose it into its elements by heat alone requires a very high
temperature; at 2500°, for example, only about 5% of the entire amount is decomposed. Though
very stable towards heat, water can be decomposed in other ways, as by the action of the electrical
current or by certain metals.

     ~Heat of formation and heat of decomposition are equal.~ The fact
     that a very high temperature is necessary to decompose water
     into hydrogen and oxygen is in accord with the fact that a
     great deal of heat is evolved by the union of hydrogen and
     oxygen; for it has been proved that the heat necessary to
     decompose a compound into its elements (heat of decomposition)
     is equal to the heat evolved in the formation of a compound
     from its elements (heat of formation).

~Water of crystallization.~ When a solid is dissolved in water and the resulting solution is
allowed to evaporate, the solid separates out, often in the form of crystals. It has been found
that the crystals of many compounds, although perfectly dry, give up a definite amount of water
when heated, the substance at the same time losing its crystalline form. Such water is called
water of crystallization. This varies in amount with different compounds, but is perfectly
definite for the same compound. Thus, if a perfectly dry crystal of copper sulphate is strongly
heated in a tube, water is evolved and condenses on the sides of the tube, the crystal crumbling
to a light powder. The weight of the water evolved is always equal to exactly 36.07% of the
weight of copper sulphate crystals heated. The water must therefore be in chemical combination
with the substance composing the crystal; for if simply mixed with it or adhering to it, not
only would the substance appear moist but the amount present would undoubtedly vary. The combination,
however, must be a very weak one, since the water is often expelled by even a gentle heat.
Indeed, in some cases the water is given up on simple exposure to air. Such compounds are said
to be efflorescent. Thus a crystal of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt) on exposure to air crumbles
to a fine powder, owing to the escape of its water of crystallization. Other substances have
just the opposite property: they absorb moisture when exposed to the air. For example, if a
bit of dry calcium chloride is placed in moist air, in the course of a few hours it will have
absorbed sufficient moisture to dissolve it. Such substances are said to be deliquescent. A
deliquescent body serves as a good drying or desiccating agent. We have already employed calcium
chloride as an agent for absorbing the moisture from hydrogen. Many substances, as for example
quartz, form crystals which contain no water of crystallization.

     ~Mechanically inclosed water.~ Water of crystallization must be
     carefully distinguished from water which is mechanically
     inclosed in a crystal and which can be removed by powdering the
     crystal and drying. Thus, when crystals of common salt are
     heated, the water inclosed in the crystal is changed into steam
     and bursts the crystal with a crackling sound. Such crystals
     are said to decrepitate. That this water is not combined is
     proved by the fact that the amount present varies and that it
     has all the properties of water.

~Uses of water.~ The importance of water in its relation to life and commerce is too well known
to require comment. Its importance to the chemist has also been pointed out. It remains to
call attention to the fact that it is used as a standard in many physical measurements. Thus
0° and 100° on the centigrade scale are respectively the freezing and the boiling points of
water under normal pressure. The weight of 1 cc. of water at its point of greatest density
is the unit of weight in the metric system, namely, the gram. It is also taken as the unit
for the determination of the density of liquids and solids as well as for the measurement of
amounts of heat.

HYDROGEN DIOXIDE

~Composition.~ As has been shown, 1 part by weight of hydrogen combines with 7.94 parts by
weight of oxygen to form water. It is possible, however, to obtain a second compound of hydrogen
and oxygen differing from water in composition in that 1 part by weight of hydrogen is combined
with 2 × 7.94, or 15.88 parts, of oxygen. This compound is called hydrogen dioxide or hydrogen
peroxide, the prefixes di- and per- signifying that it contains more oxygen than hydrogen oxide,
which is the chemical name for water.

~Preparation.~ Hydrogen dioxide cannot be prepared cheaply by the direct union of hydrogen
and oxygen, and indirect methods must therefore be used. It is commonly prepared by the action
of a solution of sulphuric acid on barium dioxide. The change which takes place may be indicated
as follows:

sulphuric acid +  barium dioxide =  barium sulphate + hydrogen dioxide
--------------    --------------    ---------------   ----------------
  hydrogen          barium           barium             hydrogen
  sulphur           oxygen           sulphur            oxygen
  oxygen                             oxygen

In other words, the barium and hydrogen in the two compounds exchange places. By this method
a dilute solution of the dioxide in water is obtained. It is possible to separate the dioxide
from the water by fractional distillation. This is attended with great difficulties, however,
since the pure dioxide is explosive. The distillation is carried on under diminished pressure
so as to lower the boiling points as much as possible; otherwise the high temperature would
decompose the dioxide.

~Properties.~ Pure hydrogen dioxide is a colorless sirupy liquid having a density of 1.49.
Its most characteristic property is the ease with which it decomposes into water and oxygen.
One part by weight of hydrogen is capable of holding firmly only 7.94 parts of oxygen. The
additional 7.94 parts of oxygen present in hydrogen dioxide are therefore easily evolved, the
compound breaking down into water and oxygen. This decomposition is attended by the generation
of considerable heat. In dilute solution hydrogen dioxide is fairly stable, although such a
solution should be kept in a dark, cool place, since both heat and light aid in the decomposition
of the dioxide.

~Uses.~ Solutions of hydrogen dioxide are used largely as oxidizing agents. The solution sold
by druggists contains 3% of the dioxide and is used in medicine as an antiseptic. Its use as
an antiseptic depends upon its oxidizing properties.

EXERCISES

1. Why does the chemist use distilled water in making solutions, rather than filtered water?

2. How could you determine the total amount of solid matter dissolved in a sample of water?

3. How could you determine whether a given sample of water is distilled water?

4. How could the presence of air dissolved in water be detected?

5. How could the amount of water in a food such as bread or potato be determined?

6. Would ice frozen from impure water necessarily be free from disease germs?

7. Suppose that the maximum density of water were at 0° in place of 4°; what effect would this
have on the formation of ice on bodies of water?

8. Is it possible for a substance to contain both mechanically inclosed water and water of
crystallization?

9. If steam is heated to 2000° and again cooled, has any chemical change taken place in the steam?

10. Why is cold water passed into C instead of D (Fig. 24)?

11. Mention at least two advantages that a metal condenser has over a glass condenser.

12. Draw a diagram of the apparatus used in your laboratory for supplying distilled water.

13. 20 cc. of hydrogen and 7 cc. of oxygen are placed in a eudiometer and the mixture exploded.
(a) How many cubic centimeters of aqueous vapor are formed? (b) What gas and how much of it
remains in excess?

14. (a) What weight of water can be formed by the combustion of 100 L of hydrogen, measured
under standard conditions? (b)What volume of oxygen would be required in (a)? (c)What weight
of potassium chlorate is necessary to prepare this amount of oxygen?

15. What weight of oxygen is present in 1 kg. of the ordinary hydrogen dioxide solution? In
the decomposition of this weight of the dioxide into water and oxygen, what volume of oxygen
(measured under standard conditions) is evolved?

CHAPTER V

THE ATOMIC THEORY

~Three fundamental laws of matter.~ Before we can gain any very definite idea in regard to
the structure of matter, and the way in which different kinds of substances act chemically
upon each other, it is necessary to have clearly in view three fundamental laws of matter.
These laws have been established by experiment, and any conception which may be formed concerning
matter must therefore be in harmony with them. The laws are as follows:

~Law of conservation of matter.~ This law has already been touched upon in the introductory
chapter, and needs no further discussion. It will be recalled that it may be stated thus: Matter
can neither be created nor destroyed, though it can be changed from one form into another.

~Law of definite composition.~ In the earlier days of chemistry there was much discussion as
to whether the composition of a given compound is always precisely the same or whether it is
subject to some variation. Two Frenchmen, Berthollet and Proust, were the leaders in this discussion,
and a great deal of most useful experimenting was done to decide the question. Their experiments,
as well as all succeeding ones, have shown that the composition of a pure chemical compound
is always exactly the same. Water obtained by melting pure ice, condensing steam, burning hydrogen
in oxygen, has always 11.18% hydrogen and 88.82% oxygen in it. Red oxide of mercury, from whatever
source it is obtained, contains 92.6% mercury and 7.4% oxygen. This truth is known as the law
of definite composition, and may be stated thus: The composition of a chemical compound never
varies.

~Law of multiple proportion.~ It has already been noted, however, that hydrogen and oxygen
combine in two different ratios to form water and hydrogen dioxide respectively. It will be
observed that this fact does not contradict the law of definite composition, for entirely different
substances are formed. These compounds differ from each other in composition, but the composition
of each one is always constant. This ability of two elements to unite in more than one ratio
is very frequently observed. Carbon and oxygen combine in two different ratios; nitrogen and
oxygen combine to form as many as five distinct compounds, each with its own precise composition.

In the first decade of the last century John Dalton, an English school-teacher and philosopher,
endeavored to find some rule which holds between the ratios in which two given substances combine.
His studies brought to light a very simple relation, which the following examples will make
clear. In hydrogen dioxide the 1 part by weight of hydrogen is combined with 15.88 parts by
weight of oxygen. The ratio between the amounts of oxygen which combine with the same amount
of hydrogen to form water and hydrogen dioxide respectively is therefore 7.94: 15.88, or 1: 2.

Similarly, the element iron combines with oxygen to form two oxides, one of which is black
and the other red. By analysis it has been shown that the former contains 1 part by weight
of iron combined with 0.286 parts by weight of oxygen, while the latter contains 1 part by
weight of iron combined with 0.429 parts by weight of oxygen. Here again we find that the amounts
of oxygen which combine with the same fixed amount of iron to form the two compounds are in
the ratio of small whole numbers, viz., 2:3.

Many other examples of this simple relation might be given, since it has been found to hold
true in all cases where more than one compound is, formed from the same elements. Dalton's
law of multiple proportion states these facts as follows: When any two elements, A and B, combine
to form more than one compound, the amounts of B which unite with any fixed amount of A bear
the ratio of small whole numbers to each other.

~Hypothesis necessary to explain the laws of matter.~ These three generalizations are called
laws, because they express in concise language truths which are found by careful experiment
to hold good in all cases. They do not offer any explanation of the facts, but merely state
them. The human mind, however, does not rest content with the mere bare facts, but seeks ever
to learn the explanation of the facts. A suggestion which is offered to explain such a set
of facts is called an hypothesis. The suggestion which Dalton offered to explain the three
laws of matter, called the atomic hypothesis, was prompted by his view of the constitution
of matter, and it involves three distinct assumptions in regard to the nature of matter and
chemical action. Dalton could not prove these assumptions to be true, but he saw that if they
were true the laws of matter become very easy to understand.

~Dalton's atomic hypothesis.~ The three assumptions which Dalton made in regard to the nature
of matter, and which together constitute the atomic hypothesis, are these:

1. All elements are made up of minute, independent particles which Dalton designated as atoms.

2. All atoms of the same element have equal masses; those of different elements have different
masses; in any change to which an atom is subjected its mass does not change.

3. When two or more elements unite to form a compound, the action consists in the union of
a definite small number of atoms of each element to form a small particle of the compound.
The smallest particles of a given compound are therefore exactly alike in the number and kinds
of atoms which they contain, and larger masses of the substances are simply aggregations of
these least particles.

~Molecules and atoms.~ Dalton applied the name atom not only to the minute particles of the
elements but also to the least particles of compounds. Later Avogadro, an Italian scientist,
pointed out the fact that the two are different, since the smallest particle of an element
is a unit, while that of a compound must have at least two units in it. He suggested the name
molecule for the least particle of a compound which can exist, retaining the name atom for
the smallest particle of an element. In accordance with this distinction, we may define the
atom and the molecule as follows: An atom is the smallest particle of an element which can
exist. A molecule is the smallest particle of a compound which can exist. It will be shown
in a subsequent chapter that sometimes two or more atoms of the same element unite with each
other to form molecules of the element. While the term atom, therefore, is applicable only
to elements, the term molecule is applicable both to elements and compounds.

~The atomic hypothesis and the laws of matter.~ Supposing the atomic hypothesis to be true,
let us now see if it is in harmony with the laws of matter.

1. The atomic hypothesis and the law of conservation of matter. It is evident that if the atoms
never change their masses in any change which they undergo, the total quantity of matter can
never change and the law of conservation of matter must follow.

2. The atomic hypothesis and the law of definite composition. According to the third supposition,
when iron combines with sulphur the union is between definite numbers of the two kinds of atoms.
In the simplest case one atom of the one element combines with one atom of the other. If the
sulphur and the iron atoms never change their respective masses when they unite to form a molecule
of iron sulphide, all iron sulphide molecules will have equal amounts of iron in them and also
of sulphur. Consequently any mass made up of iron sulphide molecules will have the same fraction
of iron by weight as do the individual iron sulphide molecules. Iron sulphide, from whatever
source, will have the same composition, which is in accordance with the law of definite composition.

3. The atomic hypothesis and the law of multiple proportion. But this simplest case may not
always be the only one. Under other conditions one atom of iron might combine with two of sulphur
to form a molecule of a second compound. In such a case the one atom of iron would be in combination
with twice the mass of sulphur that is in the first compound, since the sulphur atoms all have
equal masses. What is true for one molecule will be true for any number of them; consequently
when such quantities of these two compounds are selected as are found to contain the same amount
of iron, the one will contain twice as much sulphur as the other.

The combination between the atoms may of course take place in other simple ratios. For example,
two atoms of one element might combine with three or with five of the other. In all such cases
it is clear that the law of multiple proportion must hold true. For on selecting such numbers
of the two kinds of molecules as have the same number of the one kind of atoms, the numbers
of the other kind of atoms will stand in some simple ratio to each other, and their weights
will therefore stand in the same simple ratio.

~Testing the hypothesis.~ Efforts have been made to find compounds which do not conform to
these laws, but all such attempts have resulted in failure. If such compounds should be found,
the laws would be no longer true, and the hypothesis of Dalton would cease to possess value.
When an hypothesis has been tested in every way in which experiment can test it, and is still
found to be in harmony with the facts in the case, it is termed a theory. We now speak of the
atomic theory rather than of the atomic hypothesis.

~Value of a theory.~ The value of a theory is twofold. It aids in the clear understanding of
the laws of nature because it gives an intelligent idea as to why these laws should be in operation.

A theory also leads to discoveries. It usually happens that in testing a theory much valuable
work is done, and many new facts are discovered. Almost any theory in explaining given laws
will involve a number of consequences apart from the laws it seeks to explain. Experiment will
soon show whether these facts are as the theory predicts they will be. Thus Dalton's atomic
theory predicted many properties of gases which experiment has since verified.

~Atomic weights.~ It would be of great advantage in the study of chemistry if we could determine
the weights of the different kinds of atoms. It is evident that this cannot be done directly.
They are so small that they cannot be seen even with a most powerful microscope. It is calculated
that it would take 200,000,000 hydrogen atoms placed side by side to make a row one centimeter
long. No balance can weigh such minute objects. It is possible, however, to determine their
relative weights,--that is, how much heavier one is than another. These relative weights of
the atoms are spoken of as the atomic weights of the elements.

If elements were able to combine in only one way,--one atom of one with one atom of another,--the
problem of determining the atomic weights would be very simple. We should merely have to take
some one convenient element as a standard, and find by experiment how much of each other element
would combine with a fixed weight of it. The ratios thus found would be the same ratios as
those between the atoms of the elements, and thus we should have their relative atomic weights.
The law of multiple proportion calls attention to the fact that the atoms combine in other
ratios than 1: 1, and there is no direct way of telling which one, if any, of the several compounds
in a given case is the one consisting of a single atom of each element.

If some way were to be found of telling how much heavier the entire molecule of a compound
is than the atom chosen as a standard,--that is, of determining the molecular weights of compounds,--the
problem could be solved, though its solution would not be an entirely simple matter. There
are ways of determining the molecular weights of compounds, and there are other experiments
which throw light directly upon the relative weights of the atoms. These methods cannot be
described until the facts upon which they rest have been studied. It will be sufficient for
the present to assume that these methods are trustworthy.

~Standard for atomic weights.~ Since the atomic weights are merely relative to some one element
chosen as a standard, it is evident that any one of the elements may serve as this standard
and that any convenient value may be assigned to its atom. At one time oxygen was taken as
this standard, with the value 100, and the atomic weights of the other elements were expressed
in terms of this standard. It would seem more rational to take the element of smallest atomic
weight as the standard and give it unit value; accordingly hydrogen was taken as the standard
with an atomic weight of 1. Very recently, however, this unit has been replaced by oxygen,
with an atomic weight of 16.

~Why oxygen is chosen as the standard for atomic weights.~ In the determination of the atomic
weight of an element it is necessary to find the weight of the element which combines with
a definite weight of another element, preferably the element chosen as the standard. Since
oxygen combines with the elements far more readily than does hydrogen to form definite compounds,
it is far better adapted for the standard element, and has accordingly replaced hydrogen as
the standard. Any definite value might be given to the weight of the oxygen atom. In assigning
a value to it, however, it is convenient to choose a whole number, and as small a number as
possible without making the atomic weight of any other element less than unity. For these reasons
the number 16 has been chosen as the atomic weight of oxygen. This makes the atomic weight
of hydrogen equal to 1.008, so that there is but little difference between taking oxygen as
16 and hydrogen as 1 for the unit.

The atomic weights of the elements are given in the Appendix.

EXERCISES

1. Two compounds were found to have the following compositions: (a) oxygen = 69.53%, nitrogen
= 30.47%; (b) oxygen = 53.27%, nitrogen = 46.73%. Show that the law of multiple proportion
holds in this case.

2. Two compounds were found to have the following compositions: (a) oxygen = 43.64%, phosphorus
= 56.36%; (b) oxygen = 56.35%, phosphorus = 43.65%. Show that the law of multiple proportion
holds in this case.

3. Why did Dalton assume that all the atoms of a given element have the same weight?

CHAPTER VI

CHEMICAL EQUATIONS AND CALCULATIONS

~Formulas.~ Since the molecule of any chemical compound consists of a definite number of atoms,
and this number never changes without destroying the identity of the compound, it is very convenient
to represent the composition of a compound by indicating the composition of its molecules.
This can be done very easily by using the symbols of the atoms to indicate the number and the
kind of the atoms which constitute the molecule. HgO will in this way represent mercuric oxide,
a molecule of which has been found to contain 1 atom each of mercury and oxygen. H{2}O will
represent water, the molecules of which consist of 1 atom of oxygen and 2 of hydrogen, the
subscript figure indicating the number of the atoms of the element whose symbol precedes it.
H{2}SO{4} will stand for sulphuric acid, the molecules of which contain 2 atoms of hydrogen,
1 of sulphur, and 4 of oxygen. The combination of symbols which represents the molecule of
a substance is called its formula.

~Equations.~ When a given substance undergoes a chemical change it is possible to represent
this change by the use of such symbols and formulas. In a former chapter it was shown that
mercuric oxide decomposes when heated to form mercury and oxygen. This may be expressed very
briefly in the form of the equation

    (1) HgO = Hg + O.

When water is electrolyzed two new substances, hydrogen and oxygen, are formed from it. This
statement in the form of an equation is

    (2) H{2}O = 2H + O.

The coefficient before the symbol for hydrogen indicates that a single molecule of water yields
two atoms of hydrogen on decomposition.

In like manner the combination of sulphur with iron is expressed by the equation

    (3) Fe + S = FeS.

The decomposition of potassium chlorate by heat takes place as represented by the equation

    (4) KClO{3} = KCl + 3O.

~Reading of equations.~ Since equations are simply a kind of shorthand way of indicating chemical
changes which occur under certain conditions, in reading an equation the full statement for
which it stands should be given. Equation (1) should be read, "Mercuric oxide when heated gives
mercury and oxygen"; equation (2) is equivalent to the statement, "When electrolyzed, water
produces hydrogen and oxygen"; equation (3), "When heated together iron and sulphur unite to
form iron sulphide"; equation (4), "Potassium chlorate when heated yields potassium chloride
and oxygen."

~Knowledge required for writing equations.~ In order to write such equations correctly, a considerable
amount of exact knowledge is required. Thus, in equation (1) the fact that red oxide of mercury
has the composition represented by the formula HgO, that it is decomposed by heat, that in
this decomposition mercury and oxygen are formed and no other products,--all these facts must
be ascertained by exact experiment before the equation can be written. An equation expressing
these facts will then have much value.

Having obtained an equation describing the conduct of mercuric oxide on being heated, it will
not do to assume that other oxides will behave in like manner. Iron oxide (FeO) resembles mercuric
oxide in many respects, but it undergoes no change at all when heated. Manganese dioxide, the
black substance used in the preparation of oxygen, has the formula MnO{2}. When this substance
is heated oxygen is set free, but the metal manganese is not liberated; instead, a different
oxide of manganese containing less oxygen is produced. The equation representing the reaction is

    3MnO{2} = Mn{3}O{4} + 2O.

~Classes of reactions.~ When a chemical change takes place in a substance the substance is
said to undergo a reaction. Although a great many different reactions will be met in the study
of chemistry, they may all be grouped under the following heads.

1. Addition. This is the simplest kind of chemical action. It consists in the union of two
or more substances to produce a new substance. The combination of iron with sulphur is an example:

    Fe + S = FeS.

2. Decomposition. This is the reverse of addition, the substance undergoing reaction being
parted into its constituents. The decomposition of mercuric oxide is an example: HgO = Hg + O.

3. Substitution. It is sometimes possible for an element in the free state to act upon a compound
in such a way that it takes the place of one of the elements of the compound, liberating it
in turn. In the study of the element hydrogen it was pointed out that hydrogen is most conveniently
prepared by the action of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid upon zinc. When sulphuric acid is
used a substance called zinc sulphate, having the composition represented by the formula ZnSO{4},
is formed together with hydrogen. The equation is

    Zn + H{2}SO{4} = ZnSO{4} + 2H.

When hydrochloric acid is used zinc chloride and hydrogen are the products of reaction:

    Zn + 2HCl = ZnCl{2} + 2H.

When iron is used in place of zinc the equation is

    Fe + H{2}SO{4} = FeSO{4} + 2H.

These reactions are quite similar, as is apparent from an examination of the equations. In
each case 1 atom of the metal replaces 2 atoms of hydrogen in the acid, and the hydrogen escapes
as a gas. When an element in the free state, such as the zinc in the equations just given,
takes the place of some one element in a compound, setting it free from chemical combination,
the act is called substitution.

Other reactions illustrating substitution are the action of sodium on water,

    Na + H{2}O = NaOH + H;

and the action of heated iron upon water,

    3Fe + 4H{2}O = Fe{3}O{4} + 8H.

4. Double decomposition. When barium dioxide (BaO{2}) is treated with sulphuric acid two compounds
are formed, namely, hydrogen dioxide (H{2}O{2}) and barium sulphate (BaSO{4}). The equation is

    BaO{2} + H{2}SO{4} = BaSO{4} + H{2}O{2}.

In this reaction it will be seen that the two elements barium and hydrogen simply exchange
places. Such a reaction is called a double decomposition. We shall meet with many examples
of this kind of chemical reactions.

~Chemical equations are quantitative.~ The use of symbols and formulas in expressing chemical
changes has another great advantage. Thus, according to the equation

    H{2}O = 2H + O,

1 molecule of water is decomposed into 2 atoms of hydrogen and 1 atom of oxygen. But, as we
have seen, the relative weights of the atoms are known, that of hydrogen being 1.008, while
that of oxygen is 16. The molecule of water, being composed of 2 atoms of hydrogen and 1 atom
of oxygen, must therefore weigh relatively 2.016 + 16, or 18.016. The amount of hydrogen in
this molecule must be 2.016/18.016, or 11.18% of the whole, while the amount of oxygen must
be 16/18.018, or 88.82% of the whole. Now, since any definite quantity of water is simply the
sum of a great many molecules of water, it is plain that the fractions representing the relative
amounts of hydrogen and oxygen present in a molecule must likewise express the relative amounts
of hydrogen and oxygen present in any quantity of water. Thus, for example, in 20 g. of water
there are 2.016/18.016 × 20, or 2.238 g. of hydrogen, and 16/18.016 × 20, or 17.762 g. of oxygen.
These results in reference to the composition of water of course agree exactly with the facts
obtained by the experiments described in the chapter on water, for it is because of those experiments
that the values 1.008 and 16 are given to hydrogen and oxygen respectively.

It is often easier to make calculations of this kind in the form of a proportion rather than
by fractions. Since the molecule of water and the two atoms of hydrogen which it contains have
the ratio by weight of 18.016: 2.016, any mass of water has the same ratio between its total
weight and the weight of the hydrogen in it. Hence, to find the number of grams (x) of hydrogen
in 20 g. of water, we have the proportion

    18.016 : 2.016 :: 20 g. : x (grams of hydrogen).

Solving for x, we get 2.238 for the number of grams of hydrogen. Similarly, to find the amount
(x) of oxygen present in the 20 g. of water, we have the proportion

    18.016 : 16 :: 20 : x

from which we find that x = 17.762 g.

Again, suppose we wish to find what weight of oxygen can be obtained from 15 g. of mercuric
oxide. The equation representing the decomposition of mercuric oxide is

    HgO = Hg + O.

The relative weights of the mercury and oxygen atoms are respectively 200 and 16. The relative
weight of the mercuric oxide molecule must therefore be the sum of these, or 216. The molecule
of mercuric oxide and the atom of oxygen which it contains have the ratio 216: 16. This same
ratio must therefore hold between the weight of any given quantity of mercuric oxide and that
of the oxygen which it contains. Hence, to find the weight of oxygen in 15 g. of mercuric oxide,
we have the proportion

    216 : 16 :: 15 : x (grams of oxygen).

On the other hand, suppose we wish to prepare, say, 20 g. of oxygen. The problem is to find
out what weight of mercuric oxide will yield 20 g. of oxygen. The following proportion evidently
holds

    216 : 16 :: x (grams of mercuric oxide) : 20;

from which we get x = 270.

In the preparation of hydrogen by the action of sulphuric acid upon zinc, according to the
equation,

    Zn + H{2}SO{4} = ZnSO{4} + 2 H,

suppose that 50 g. of zinc are available; let it be required to calculate the weight of hydrogen
which can be obtained. It will be seen that 1 atom of zinc will liberate 2 atoms of hydrogen.
The ratio by weight of a zinc to an hydrogen atom is 65.4: 1.008; of 1 zinc atom to 2 hydrogen
atoms, 65.4: 2.016. Zinc and hydrogen will be related in this reaction in this same ratio,
however many atoms of zinc are concerned. Consequently in the proportion

    65.4 : 2.016 :: 50 : x,

x will be the weight of hydrogen set free by 50 g. of zinc. The weight of zinc sulphate produced
at the same time can be found from the proportion

    65.4 : 161.46 :: 50 : x;

where 161.46 is the molecular weight of the zinc sulphate, and x the weight of zinc sulphate
formed. In like manner, the weight of sulphuric acid used up can be calculated from the proportion

    65.4 : 98.076 :: 50 : x.

These simple calculations are possible because the symbols and formulas in the equations represent
the relative weights of the substances concerned in a chemical reaction. When once the relative
weights of the atoms have been determined, and it has been agreed to allow the symbols to stand
for these relative weights, an equation or formula making use of the symbols becomes a statement
of a definite numerical fact, and calculations can be based on it.

~Chemical equations not algebraic.~ Although chemical equations are quantitative, it must be
clearly understood that they are not algebraic. A glance at the equations

    7 + 4 = 11, 8 + 5 = 9 + 4

will show at once that they are true. The equations

    HgO = Hg + O, FeO = Fe + O

are equally true in an algebraic sense, but experiment shows that only the first is true chemically,
for iron oxide (FeO) cannot be directly decomposed into iron and oxygen. Only such equations
as have been found by careful experiment to express a real chemical transformation, true both
for the kinds of substances as well as for the weights, have any value.

Chemical formulas and equations, therefore, are a concise way of representing qualitatively
and quantitatively facts which have been found by experiment to be true in reference to the
composition of substances and the changes which they undergo.

~Formulas representing water of crystallization.~ An examination of substances containing water
of crystallization has shown that in every case the water is present in such proportion by
weight as can readily be represented by a formula. For example, copper sulphate (CuSO{4}) and
water combine in the ratio of 1 molecule of the sulphate to 5 of water; calcium sulphate (CaSO{4})
and water combine in the ratio 1: 2 to form gypsum. These facts are expressed by writing the
formulas for the two substances with a period between them. Thus the formula for crystallized
copper sulphate is CuSO{4}·5H{2}O; that of gypsum is CaSO{4}·2H{2}O.

~Heat of reaction.~ Attention has frequently been directed to the fact that chemical changes
are usually accompanied by heat changes. In general it has been found that in every chemical
action heat is either absorbed or given off. By adopting a suitable unit for the measurement
of heat, the heat change during a chemical reaction can be expressed in the equation for the
reaction.

Heat cannot be measured by the use of a thermometer alone, since the thermometer measures the
intensity of heat, not its quantity. The easiest way to measure a quantity of heat is to note
how warm it will make a definite amount of a given substance chosen as a standard. Water has
been chosen as the standard, and the unit of heat is called a calorie.

By means of this unit it is easy to indicate the heat changes in a given chemical reaction.
The equation

    2H + O = H{2}O + 68,300 cal.

means that when 2.016 g. of hydrogen combine with 16 g. of oxygen, 18.016 g. of water are formed
and 68,300 cal. are set free.

    C + 2S = CS{2} - 19,000 cal.

means that an expenditure of 19,000 cal. is required to cause 12 g. of carbon to unite with
64.12 g. of sulphur to form 76.12 g. of carbon disulphide. In these equations it will be noted
that the symbols stand for as many grams of the substance as there are units in the weights
of the atoms represented by the symbols. This is always understood to be the case in equations
where the heat of reaction is given.

~Conditions of a chemical action are not indicated by equations.~ Equations do not tell the
conditions under which a reaction will take place. The equation

    HgO = Hg + O

does not tell us that it is necessary to keep the mercuric oxide at a high temperature in order
that the decomposition may go on. The equation

    Zn + 2HCl = ZnCl{2} + 2H

in no way indicates the fact that the hydrochloric acid must be dissolved in water before it
will act upon the zinc. From the equation

    H + Cl = HCl

it would not be suspected that the two gases hydrogen and chlorine will unite instantly in
the sunlight, but will stand mixed in the dark a long time without change. It will therefore
be necessary to pay much attention to the details of the conditions under which a given reaction
occurs, as well as to the expression of the reaction in the form of an equation.

EXERCISES

1. Calculate the percentage composition of the following substances: (a) mercuric oxide; (b)
potassium chlorate; (c) hydrochloric acid; (d) sulphuric acid. Compare the results obtained
with the compositions as given in Chapters II and III.

2. Determine the percentage of copper, sulphur, oxygen, and water in copper sulphate crystals.
What weight of water can be obtained from 150 g. of this substance?

3. What weight of zinc can be dissolved in 10 g. of sulphuric acid? How much zinc sulphate
will be formed?

4. How many liters of hydrogen measured under standard conditions can be obtained from the
action of 8 g. of iron on 10 g. of sulphuric acid? How much iron sulphate (FeSO{4}) will be formed?

5. 10 g. of zinc were used in the preparation of hydrogen; what weight of iron will be required
to prepare an equal volume?

6. How many grams of barium dioxide will be required to prepare 1 kg. of common hydrogen dioxide
solution? What weight of barium sulphate will be formed at the same time?

7. What weight of the compound Mn{3}O{4} will be formed by strongly heating 25 g. of manganese
dioxide? What volume of oxygen will be given off at the same time, measured under standard
conditions?

8. (a) What is the weight of 100 l. of hydrogen measured in a laboratory in which the temperature
is 20° and pressure 750 mm.? (b) What weight of sulphuric acid is necessary to prepare this
amount of hydrogen? (c) The density of sulphuric acid is 1.84. Express the acid required in
(b) in cubic centimeters.

9. What weight of potassium chlorate is necessary to furnish sufficient oxygen to fill four
200 cc. bottles in your laboratory (the gas to be collected over water)?

CHAPTER VII

NITROGEN AND THE RARE ELEMENTS: ARGON, HELIUM, NEON, KRYPTON, XENON

~Historical.~ Nitrogen was discovered by the English chemist Rutherford in 1772. A little later
Scheele showed it to be a constituent of air, and Lavoisier gave it the name azote, signifying
that it would not support life. The name nitrogen was afterwards given it because of its presence
in saltpeter or niter. The term azote and symbol Az are still retained by the French chemists.

~Occurrence.~ Air is composed principally of oxygen and nitrogen in the free state, about 78
parts by volume out of every 100 parts being nitrogen. Nitrogen also occurs in nature in the
form of potassium nitrate (KNO{3})--commonly called saltpeter or niter--as well as in sodium
nitrate (NaNO{3}). Nitrogen is also an essential constituent of all living organisms; for example,
the human body contains about 2.4% of nitrogen.

~Preparation from air.~ Nitrogen can be prepared from air by the action of some substance which
will combine with the oxygen, leaving the nitrogen free. Such a substance must be chosen, however,
as will combine with the oxygen to form a product which is not a gas, and which can be readily
separated from the nitrogen. The substances most commonly used for this purpose are phosphorus
and copper.

1. By the action of phosphorus. The method used for the preparation of nitrogen by the action
of phosphorus is as follows:

The phosphorus is placed in a little porcelain dish, supported on a cork and floated on water
(Fig. 26). It is then ignited by contact with a hot wire, and immediately a bell jar or bottle
is brought over it so as to confine a portion of the air. The phosphorus combines with the
oxygen to form an oxide of phosphorus, known as phosphorus pentoxide. This is a white solid
which floats about in the bell jar, but in a short time it is all absorbed by the water, leaving
the nitrogen. The withdrawal of the oxygen is indicated by the rising of the water in the bell jar.

2. By the action of copper. The oxygen present in the air may also be removed by passing air
slowly through a heated tube containing copper. The copper combines with the oxygen to form
copper oxide, which is a solid. The nitrogen passes on and may be collected over water.

     ~Nitrogen obtained from air is not pure.~ Inasmuch as air, in
     addition to oxygen and nitrogen, contains small amounts of
     other gases, and since the phosphorus as well as the copper
     removes only the oxygen, it is evident that the nitrogen
     obtained by these methods is never quite pure. About 1% of the
     product is composed of other gases, from which it is very
     difficult to separate the nitrogen. The impure nitrogen so
     obtained may, however, be used for a study of most of the
     properties of nitrogen, since these are not materially affected
     by the presence of the other gases.

~Preparation from compounds of nitrogen.~ Pure nitrogen may be obtained from certain compounds
of the element. Thus, if heat is applied to the compound ammonium nitrite (NH{4}NO{2}), the
change represented in the following equation takes place:

    NH{4}NO{2} = 2H{2}O + 2N.

~Physical properties.~ Nitrogen is similar to oxygen and hydrogen in that it is a colorless,
odorless, and tasteless gas. One liter of nitrogen weighs 1.2501 g. It is almost insoluble
in water. It can be obtained in the form of a colorless liquid having a boiling point of -195°
at ordinary pressure. At -214° it solidifies.

~Chemical properties.~ Nitrogen is characterized by its inertness. It is neither combustible
nor a supporter of combustion. At ordinary temperatures it will not combine directly with any
of the elements except under rare conditions. At higher temperatures it combines with magnesium,
lithium, titanium, and a number of other elements. The compounds formed are called nitrides,
just as compounds of an element with oxygen are called oxides. When it is mixed with oxygen
and subjected to the action of electric sparks, the two gases slowly combine forming oxides
of nitrogen. A mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen when treated similarly forms ammonia, a gaseous
compound of nitrogen and hydrogen. Since we are constantly inhaling nitrogen, it is evident
that it is not poisonous. Nevertheless life would be impossible in an atmosphere of pure nitrogen
on account of the exclusion of the necessary oxygen.

     ~Argon, helium, neon, krypton, xenon.~ These are all rare
     elements occurring in the air in very small quantities. Argon,
     discovered in 1894, was the first one obtained. Lord Rayleigh,
     an English scientist, while engaged in determining the exact
     weights of various gases, observed that the nitrogen obtained
     from the air is slightly heavier than pure nitrogen obtained
     from its compounds. After repeating his experiments many times,
     always with the same results, Rayleigh finally concluded that
     the nitrogen which he had obtained from the air was not pure,
     but was mixed with a small amount of some unknown gas, the
     density of which is greater than that of nitrogen. Acting on
     this assumption, Rayleigh, together with the English chemist
     Ramsay, attempted to separate the nitrogen from the unknown
     gas. Knowing that nitrogen would combine with magnesium, they
     passed the nitrogen obtained from the air and freed from all
     known substances through tubes containing magnesium heated to
     the necessary temperature. After repeating this operation, they
     finally succeeded in obtaining from the atmospheric nitrogen a
     small volume of gas which would not combine with magnesium and
     hence could not be nitrogen. This proved to be a new element,
     to which they gave the name argon. As predicted, this new
     element was found to be heavier than nitrogen, its density as
     compared with hydrogen as a standard being approximately 20,
     that of nitrogen being only 14. About 1% of the atmospheric
     nitrogen proved to be argon. The new element is characterized
     by having no affinity for other elements. Even under the most
     favorable conditions it has not been made to combine with any
     other element. On this account it was given the name argon,
     signifying lazy or idle. Like nitrogen, it is colorless,
     odorless, and tasteless. It has been liquefied and solidified.
     Its boiling point is -187°.

     Helium was first found in the gases expelled from certain
     minerals by heating. Through the agency of the spectroscope it
     had been known to exist in the sun long before its presence on
     the earth had been demonstrated,--a fact suggested by the name
     helium, signifying the sun. Its existence in traces in the
     atmosphere has also been proven. It was first liquefied by
     Onnes in July, 1908. Its boiling point, namely -269°, is the
     lowest temperature yet reached.

     The remaining elements of this group--neon, krypton, and
     xenon--have been obtained from liquid air. When liquid air is
     allowed to boil, the constituents which are the most difficult
     to liquefy, and which therefore have the lowest boiling points,
     vaporize first, followed by the others in the order of their
     boiling points. It is possible in this way to make at least a
     partial separation of the air into its constituents, and Ramsay
     thus succeeded in obtaining from liquid air not only the known
     constituents, including argon and helium, but also the new
     elements, neon, krypton, and xenon. These elements, as well as
     helium, all proved to be similar to argon in that they are
     without chemical activity, apparently forming no compounds
     whatever. The percentages present in the air are very small.
     The names, neon, krypton, xenon, signify respectively, new,
     hidden, stranger.

EXERCISES

1. How could you distinguish between oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen?

2. Calculate the relative weights of nitrogen and oxygen; of nitrogen and hydrogen.

3. In the preparation of nitrogen from the air, how would hydrogen do as a substance for the
removal of the oxygen?

4. What weight of nitrogen can be obtained from 10 l. of air measured under the conditions
of temperature and pressure which prevail in your laboratory?

5. How many grams of ammonium nitrite are necessary in the preparation of 20 l. of nitrogen
measured over water under the conditions of temperature and pressure which prevail in your
laboratory?

6. If 10 l. of air, measured under standard conditions, is passed over 100 g. of hot copper,
how much will the copper gain in weight?

CHAPTER VIII

THE ATMOSPHERE

~Atmosphere and air.~ The term atmosphere is applied to the gaseous envelope surrounding the
earth. The term air is generally applied to a limited portion of this envelope, although the
two words are often used interchangeably. Many references have already been made to the composition
and properties of the atmosphere. These statements must now be collected and discussed somewhat
more in detail.

~Air formerly regarded as an element.~ Like water, air was at first regarded as elementary
in character. Near the close of the eighteenth century Scheele, Priestley, and Lavoisier showed
by their experiments that it is a mixture of at least two gases,--those which we now call oxygen
and nitrogen. By burning substances in an inclosed volume of air and noting the contraction
in volume due to the removal of the oxygen, they were able to determine with some accuracy
the relative volumes of oxygen and nitrogen present in the air.

~The constituents of the atmosphere.~ The constituents of the atmosphere may be divided into
two general groups: those which are essential to life and those which are not essential.

1. Constituents essential to life. In addition to oxygen and nitrogen at least two other substances,
namely, carbon dioxide and water vapor, must be present in the atmosphere in order that life
may exist. The former of these is a gaseous compound of carbon and oxygen having the formula
CO{2}. Its properties will be discussed in detail in the chapter on the compounds of carbon.
Its presence in the air may be shown by causing the air to bubble through a solution of calcium
hydroxide (Ca(OH){2}), commonly called lime water. The carbon dioxide combines with the calcium
hydroxide in accordance with the following equation:

    Ca(OH){2} + CO{2} = CaCO{3} + H{2}O.

The resulting calcium carbonate (CaCO{3}) is insoluble in water and separates in the form of
a white powder, which causes the solution to appear milky.

The presence of water vapor is readily shown by its condensation on cold objects as well as
by the fact that a bit of calcium chloride when exposed to the air becomes moist, and may even
dissolve in the water absorbed from the air.

2. Constituents not essential to life. In addition to the essential constituents, the air contains
small percentages of various other gases, the presence of which so far as is known is not essential
to life. This list includes the rare elements, argon, helium, neon, krypton, and xenon; also
hydrogen, ammonia, hydrogen dioxide, and probably ozone. Certain minute forms of life (germs)
are also present, the decay of organic matter being due to their presence.

     ~Function of each of the essential constituents.~ (1) The oxygen
     directly supports life through respiration. (2) The nitrogen,
     on account of its inactivity, serves to dilute the oxygen, and
     while contrary to the older views, it is possible that life
     might continue to exist in the absence of the atmospheric
     nitrogen, yet the conditions of life would be entirely changed.
     Moreover, nitrogen is an essential constituent of all animal
     and plant life. It was formerly supposed that neither animals
     nor plants could assimilate the free nitrogen, but it has been
     shown recently that the plants of at least one natural order,
     the Leguminosæ, to which belong the beans, peas, and clover,
     have the power of directly assimilating the free nitrogen from
     the atmosphere. This is accomplished through the agency of
     groups of bacteria, which form colonies in little tubercles on
     the roots of the plants. These bacteria probably assist in the
     absorption of nitrogen by changing the free nitrogen into
     compounds which can be assimilated by the plant. Fig. 27 shows
     the tubercles on the roots of a variety of bean. (3) The
     presence of water vapor in the air is necessary to prevent
     excessive evaporation from both plants and animals. (4) Carbon
     dioxide is an essential plant food.

~The quantitative analysis of air.~ A number of different methods have been devised for the
determination of the percentages of the constituents present in the atmosphere. Among these
are the following.

1. Determination of oxygen. (1) The oxygen is withdrawn from a measured volume of air inclosed
in a tube, by means of phosphorus.

     To make the determination, a graduated tube is filled with
     water and inverted in a vessel of water. Air is introduced into
     the tube until it is partially filled with the gas. The volume
     of the inclosed air is carefully noted and reduced to standard
     conditions. A small piece of phosphorus is attached to a wire
     and brought within the tube as shown in Fig. 28. After a few
     hours the oxygen in the inclosed air will have combined with
     the phosphorus, the water rising to take its place. The
     phosphorus is removed and the volume is again noted and reduced
     to standard conditions. The contraction in the volume of the
     air is equal to the volume of oxygen absorbed.

(2) The oxygen may also be estimated by passing a measured volume of air through a tube containing
copper heated to a high temperature. The oxygen in the air combines with the copper to form
copper oxide (CuO). Hence the increase in the weight of the copper equals the weight of the
oxygen in the volume of air taken.

(3) A more accurate method is the following. A eudiometer tube is filled with mercury and inverted
in a vessel of the same liquid. A convenient amount of air is then introduced into the tube
and its volume accurately noted. There is then introduced more than sufficient hydrogen to
combine with the oxygen present in the inclosed air, and the volume is again accurately noted.
The mixture is then exploded by an electric spark, and the volume is once more taken. By subtracting
this volume from the total volume of the air and hydrogen there is obtained the contraction
in volume due to the union of the oxygen and hydrogen. The volume occupied by the water formed
by the union of the two gases is so small that it may be disregarded in the calculation. Since
oxygen and hydrogen combine in the ratio 1: 2 by volume, it is evident that the contraction
in volume due to the combination is equal to the volume occupied by the oxygen in the air contained
in the tube, plus twice this volume of hydrogen. In other words, one third of the total contraction
is equal to the volume occupied by the oxygen in the inclosed air. The following example will
make this clear:

Volume of air in tube                                        50.0 cc. Volume after introducing
hydrogen                            80.0 Volume after combination of oxygen and hydrogen  
48.5 Contraction in volume due to combination (80 cc.-48.5 cc.)   31.5 Volume of oxygen in
50 cc. of air (1/3 of 31.5)              10.5

All these methods agree in showing that 100 volumes of dry air contain approximately 21 volumes
of oxygen.

2. Determination of nitrogen. If the gas left after the removal of oxygen from a portion of
air is passed over heated magnesium, the nitrogen is withdrawn, argon and the other rare elements
being left. It may thus be shown that of the 79 volumes of gas left after the removal of the
oxygen from 100 volumes of air, approximately 78 are nitrogen and 0.93 argon. The other elements
are present in such small quantities that they may be neglected.

3. Determination of carbon dioxide. The percentage of carbon dioxide in any given volume of
air may be determined by passing the air over calcium hydroxide or some other compound which
will combine with the carbon dioxide. The increase in the weight of the hydroxide equals the
weight of the carbon dioxide absorbed. The amount present in the open normal air is from 3
to 4 parts by volume in 10,000 volumes of air, or about 0.04%.

4. Determination of water vapor. The water vapor present in a given volume of air may be determined
by passing the air over calcium chloride (or some other compound which has a strong affinity
for water), and noting the increase in the weight of the chloride. The amount present varies
not only with the locality, but there is a wide variation from day to day in the same locality
because of the winds and changes in temperature.

~Processes affecting the composition of the air.~ The most important of these processes are
the following.

1. Respiration. In the process of respiration some of the oxygen in the inhaled air is absorbed
by the blood and carried to all parts of the body, where it combines with the carbon of the
worn-out tissues. The products of oxidation are carried back to the lungs and exhaled in the
form of carbon dioxide. The amount exhaled by an adult averages about 20 l. per hour. Hence
in a poorly ventilated room occupied by a number of people the amount of carbon dioxide rapidly
increases. While this gas is not poisonous unless present in large amounts, nevertheless air
containing more than 15 parts in 10,000 is not fit for respiration.

2. Combustion. All of the ordinary forms of fuel contain large percentages of carbon. On burning,
this carbon combines with oxygen in the air, forming carbon dioxide. Combustion and respiration,
therefore, tend to diminish the amount of oxygen in the air and to increase the amount of carbon
dioxide.

3. Action of plants. Plants have the power, when in the sunlight, of absorbing carbon dioxide
from the air, retaining the carbon and returning at least a portion of the oxygen to the air.
It will be observed that these changes are just the opposite of those brought about by the
processes of respiration and combustion.

     ~Poisonous effect of exhaled air.~ The differences in the
     percentages of oxygen, carbon dioxide, and moisture present in
     inhaled air and exhaled air are shown in the following
     analyses.

                       INHALED AIR     EXHALED AIR
       Oxygen            21.00%          16.00%
       Carbon dioxide     0.04            4.38
       Moisture         variable        saturated

     The foul odor of respired air is due to the presence of a
     certain amount of organic matter. It is possible that this
     organic matter rather than the carbon dioxide is responsible
     for the injurious effects which follow the respiration of
     impure air. The extent of such organic impurities present may
     be judged, however, by the amount of carbon dioxide present,
     since the two are exhaled together.

     ~The cycle of carbon in nature.~ Under the influence of sunlight,
     the carbon dioxide absorbed from the air by plants reacts with
     water and small amounts of other substances absorbed from the
     soil to form complex compounds of carbon which constitute the
     essential part of the plant tissue. This reaction is attended
     by the evolution of oxygen, which is restored to the air. The
     compounds resulting from these changes are much richer in their
     energy content than are the substances from which they are
     formed; hence a certain amount of energy must have been
     absorbed in their formation. The source of this energy is the
     sun's rays.

     If the plant is burned, the changes which took place in the
     formation of the compounds present are largely reversed. The
     carbon and hydrogen present combine with oxygen taken from the
     air to form carbon dioxide and water, while the energy absorbed
     from the sun's rays is liberated in the form of energy of heat.
     If, on the other hand, the plant is used as food, the compounds
     present are used in building up the tissues of the body. When
     this tissue breaks down, the changes which it undergoes are
     very similar to those which take place when the plant is
     burned. The carbon and hydrogen combine with the inhaled oxygen
     to form carbon dioxide and water, which are exhaled. The energy
     possessed by the complex substances is liberated partly in the
     form of energy of heat, which maintains the heat of the body,
     and partly in the various forms of muscular energy. The carbon
     originally absorbed from the air by the plant in the form of
     carbon dioxide is thus restored to the air and is ready to
     repeat the cycle of changes.

~The composition of the air is constant.~ Notwithstanding the changes constantly taking place
which tend to alter the composition of the air, the results of a great many analyses of air
collected in the open fields show that the percentages of oxygen and nitrogen as well as of
carbon dioxide are very nearly constant. Indeed, so constant are the percentages of oxygen
and nitrogen that the question has arisen, whether these two elements are not combined in the
air, forming a definite chemical compound. That the two are not combined but are simply mixed
together can be shown in a number of ways, among which are the following.

1. When air dissolves in water it has been found that the ratio of oxygen to nitrogen in the
dissolved air is no longer 21: 78, but more nearly 35: 65. If it were a chemical compound,
the ratio of oxygen to nitrogen would not be changed by solution in water.

2. A chemical compound in the form of a liquid has a definite boiling point. Water, for example,
boils at 100°. Moreover the steam which is thus formed has the same composition as the water.
The boiling point of liquid air, on the other hand, gradually rises as the liquid boils, the
nitrogen escaping first followed by the oxygen. If the two were combined, they would pass off
together in the ratio in which they are found in the air.

~Why the air has a constant composition.~ If air is a mixture and changes are constantly taking
place which tend to modify its composition, how, then, do we account for the constancy of composition
which the analyses reveal? This is explained by several facts. (1) The changes which are caused
by the processes of combustion and respiration, on the one hand, and the action of plants,
on the other, tend to equalize each other. (2) The winds keep the air in constant motion and
so prevent local changes. (3) The volume of the air is so vast and the changes which occur
are so small compared with the total amount of air that they cannot be readily detected. (4)
Finally it must be noted that only air collected in the open fields shows this constancy in
composition. The air in a poorly ventilated room occupied by a number of people rapidly changes
in composition.

~The properties of the air.~ Inasmuch as air is composed principally of a mixture of oxygen
and nitrogen, which elements have already been discussed, its properties may be inferred largely
from those of the two gases. One liter weighs 1.2923 g. It is thus 14.38 times as heavy as
hydrogen. At the sea level it exerts an average pressure sufficient to sustain a column of
mercury 760 mm. in height. This is taken as the standard pressure in determining the volumes
of gases as well as the boiling points of liquids. Water may be made to boil at any temperature
between 0° and considerably above 100° by simply varying the pressure. It is only when the
pressure upon it is equal to the normal pressure of the atmosphere at the sea level, as indicated
by a barometric reading of 760 mm., that it boils at 100°.

~Preparation of liquid air.~ Attention has been called to the fact that both oxygen and nitrogen
can be obtained in the liquid state by strongly cooling the gases and applying great pressure
to them. Since air is largely a mixture of these two gases, it can be liquefied by the same
methods.

     The methods for liquefying air have been simplified greatly in
     that the low temperature required is obtained by allowing a
     portion of the compressed air to expand. The expansion of a gas
     is always attended by the absorption of heat. In liquefying air
     the apparatus is so constructed that the heat absorbed is
     withdrawn from air already under great pressure. This process
     is continued until the temperature is lowered to the point of
     liquefaction.

~The Dewar bulb.~ It is not possible to preserve air in the liquid state in a closed vessel,
on account of the enormous pressure exerted by it in its tendency to pass into the gaseous
state. It may however be preserved for some hours or even days before it will completely evaporate,
by simply placing it in an open vessel surrounded by a nonconducting material. The most efficient
vessel for this purpose is the Dewar bulb shown in Fig. 29. The air is withdrawn from the space
between the two walls, thus making it nonconducting.

~Properties and uses of liquid air.~ When first prepared, liquid air is cloudy because of the
presence of particles of solid carbon dioxide. These may be filtered off, leaving a liquid
of slightly bluish color. It begins to boil at about -190°, the nitrogen passing off first,
gradually followed by the oxygen, the last portions being nearly pure oxygen. To a certain
extent oxygen is now prepared in this way for commercial purposes.

The extremely low temperature of liquid air may be inferred from the fact that mercury when
cooled by it is frozen to a mass so hard that it may be used for driving nails.

Liquid air is used in the preparation of oxygen and as a cooling agent in the study of the
properties of matter at low temperatures. It has thus been found that elements at extremely
low temperatures largely lose their chemical activity.

EXERCISES

1. When oxygen and nitrogen are mixed in the proportion in which they exist in the atmosphere,
heat is neither evolved nor absorbed by the process. What important point does this suggest?

2. What essential constituent of the air is found in larger amount in manufacturing districts
than in the open country?

3. Can you suggest any reason why the growth of clover in a field improves the soil?

4. Why are the inner walls of a Dewar bulb sometimes coated with a film of silver?

5. To what is the blue color of liquid air due? Does this color increase in intensity on standing?

6. When ice is placed in a vessel containing liquid air, the latter boils violently. Explain.

7. Taking the volumes of the oxygen and nitrogen in 100 volumes of air as 21 and 78 respectively,
calculate the percentages of these elements present by weight.

8. Would combustion be more intense in liquid air than in the gaseous substance?

9. A tube containing calcium chloride was found to weigh 30.1293 g. A volume of air which weighed
15.2134 g. was passed through, after which the weight of the tube was found to be 30.3405 g.
What was the percentage amount of moisture present in the air?

10. 10 l. of air measured at 20° and 740 mm. passed through lime water caused the precipitation
of 0.0102 g. of CaCO{3}. Find the number of volumes of carbon dioxide in 10,000 volumes of the air.

CHAPTER IX

SOLUTIONS

~Definitions.~ When a substance disappears in a liquid in such a way as to thoroughly mix with
it and to be lost to sight as an individual body, the resulting liquid is called a solution.
The liquid in which the substance dissolves is called the solvent, while the dissolved substance
is called the solute.

~Classes of solutions.~ Matter in any one of its physical states may dissolve in a liquid,
so that we may have solutions of gases, of liquids, and of solids. Solutions of liquids in
liquids are not often mentioned in the following pages, but the other two classes will become
very familiar in the course of our study, and deserve special attention.

SOLUTION OF GASES IN LIQUIDS

It has already been stated that oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen are slightly soluble in water.
Accurate study has led to the conclusion that all gases are soluble to some extent not only
in water but in many other liquids. The amount of a gas which will dissolve in a liquid depends
upon a number of conditions, and these can best be understood by supposing a vessel B (Fig.
30), to be filled with the gas and inverted over the liquid. Under these circumstances the
gas cannot escape or become mixed with another gas.

~Circumstances affecting the solubility of gases.~ A number of circumstances affect the solubility
of a gas in a liquid.

1. Nature of the gas. Other conditions being equal, each gas has its own peculiar solubility,
just as it has its own special taste or odor. The solubility of gases varies between wide limits,
as will be seen from the following table, but as a rule a given volume of a liquid will not
dissolve more than two or three times its own volume of a gas.

Solubility of Gases in Water

1 l. of water at 760 mm. pressure and at 0° will dissolve:

    Ammonia                 1148.00 l.
    Hydrochloric acid        503.00
    Sulphur dioxide           79.79
    Carbon dioxide             1.80
    Oxygen                    41.14 cc.
    Hydrogen                  21.15
    Nitrogen                  20.03

In the case of very soluble gases, such as the first three in the table, it is probable that
chemical combination between the liquid and the gas takes place.

2. Nature of the liquid. The character of the liquid has much influence upon the solubility
of a gas. Water, alcohol, and ether have each its own peculiar solvent power. From the solubility
of a gas in water, no prediction can be made as to its solubility in other liquids.

3. Influence of pressure. It has been found that the weight of gas which dissolves in a given
case is proportional to the pressure exerted upon the gas. If the pressure is doubled, the
weight of gas going into solution is doubled; if the pressure is diminished to one half of
its original value, half of the dissolved gas will escape. Under high pressure, large quantities
of gas can be dissolved in a liquid, and when the pressure is removed the gas escapes, causing
the liquid to foam or effervesce.

4. Influence of temperature. In general, the lower the temperature of the liquid, the larger
the quantity of gas which it can dissolve. 1000 volumes of water at 0° will dissolve 41.14
volumes of oxygen; at 50°, 18.37 volumes; at 100° none at all. While most gases can be expelled
from a liquid by boiling the solution, some cannot. For example, it is not possible to expel
hydrochloric acid gas completely from its solution by boiling.

SOLUTION OF SOLIDS IN LIQUIDS

This is the most familiar class of solutions, since in the laboratory substances are much more
frequently used in the form of solutions than in the solid state.

~Circumstances affecting the solubility of a solid.~ The solubility of a solid in a liquid
depends upon several factors.

1. Nature of the solid. Other conditions being the same, solids vary greatly in their solubility
in liquids. This is illustrated in the following table:

Table of Solubility of Solids at 18°

100 cc. of water will dissolve:

    Calcium chloride        71.0 g.
    Sodium chloride         35.9
    Potassium nitrate       29.1
    Copper sulphate         21.4
    Calcium sulphate         0.207

No solids are absolutely insoluble, but the amount dissolved may be so small as to be of no
significance for most purposes. Thus barium sulphate, one of the most insoluble of common substances,
dissolves in water to the extent of 1 part in 400,000.

2. Nature of the solvent. Liquids vary much in their power to dissolve solids. Some are said
to be good solvents, since they dissolve a great variety of substances and considerable quantities
of them. Others have small solvent power, dissolving few substances, and those to a slight
extent only. Broadly speaking, water is the most general solvent, and alcohol is perhaps second
in solvent power.

3. Temperature. The weight of a solid which a given liquid can dissolve varies with the temperature.
Usually it increases rapidly as the temperature rises, so that the boiling liquid dissolves
several times the weight which the cold liquid will dissolve. In some instances, as in the
case of common salt dissolved in water, the temperature has little influence upon the solubility,
and a few solids are more soluble in cold water than in hot. The following examples will serve
as illustrations:

Table of Solubility at 0° and at 100°

100 cc. of water will dissolve:

                                At 0°           At 100°

    Calcium chloride            49.6 g.        155.0 g.
    Sodium chloride             35.7            39.8
    Potassium nitrate           13.3           247.0
    Copper sulphate             15.5            73.5
    Calcium sulphate             0.205           0.217
    Calcium hydroxide            0.173           0.079

~Saturated solutions.~ A liquid will not dissolve an unlimited quantity of a solid. On adding
the solid to the liquid in small portions at a time, it will be found that a point is reached
at which the liquid will not dissolve more of the solid at that temperature. The solid and
the solution remain in contact with each other unchanged. This condition may be described by
saying that they are in equilibrium with each other. A solution is said to be saturated when
it remains unchanged in concentration in contact with some of the solid. The weight of the
solid which will completely saturate a definite volume of a liquid at a given temperature is
called the solubility of the substance at that temperature.

~Supersaturated solutions.~ When a solution, saturated at a given temperature, is allowed to
cool it sometimes happens that no solid crystallizes out. This is very likely to occur when
the vessel used is perfectly smooth and the solution is not disturbed in any way. Such a solution
is said to be supersaturated. That this condition is unstable can be shown by adding a crystal
of the solid to the solution. All of the solid in excess of the quantity required to saturate
the solution at this temperature will at once crystallize out, leaving the solution saturated.
Supersaturation may also be overcome in many cases by vigorously shaking or stirring the solution.

~General physical properties of solutions.~ A few general statements may be made in reference
to the physical properties of solutions.

1. Distribution of the solid in the liquid. A solid, when dissolved, tends to distribute itself
uniformly through the liquid, so that every part of the solution has the same concentration.
The process goes on very slowly unless hastened by stirring or shaking the solution. Thus,
if a few crystals of a highly colored substance such as copper sulphate are placed in the bottom
of a tall vessel full of water, it will take weeks for the solution to become uniformly colored.

2. Boiling points of solutions. The boiling point of a liquid is raised by the presence of
a substance dissolved in it. In general the extent to which the boiling point of a solvent
is raised by a given substance is proportional to the concentration of the solution, that is,
to the weight of the substance dissolved in a definite weight of the solvent.

3. Freezing points of solutions. A solution freezes at a lower temperature than the pure solvent.
The lowering of the freezing point obeys the same law which holds for the raising of the boiling
point: the extent of lowering is proportional to the weight of dissolved substance, that is,
to the concentration of the solution.

~Electrolysis of solutions.~ Pure water does not appreciably conduct the electric current.
If, however, certain substances such as common salt are dissolved in the water, the resulting
solutions are found to be conductors of electricity. Such solutions are called electrolytes.
When the current passes through an electrolyte some chemical change always takes place. This
change is called electrolysis.

The general method used in the electrolysis of a solution is illustrated in Fig. 31. The vessel
D contains the electrolyte. Two plates or rods, A and B, made of suitable material, are connected
with the wires from a battery (or dynamo) and dipped into the electrolyte, as shown in the
figure. These plates or rods are called electrodes. The electrode connected with the zinc plate
of the battery is the negative electrode or cathode, while that connected with the carbon plate
is the positive electrode or anode.

~Theory of electrolytic dissociation.~ The facts which have just been described in connection
with solutions, together with many others, have led chemists to adopt a theory of solutions
called the theory of electrolytic dissociation. The main assumptions in this theory are the
following.

1. Formation of ions. Many compounds when dissolved in water undergo an important change. A
portion of their molecules fall apart, or dissociate, into two or more parts, called ions.
Thus sodium nitrate (NaNO{3}) dissociates into the ions Na and NO{3}; sodium chloride, into
the ions Na and Cl. These ions are free to move about in the solution independently of each
other like independent molecules, and for this reason were given the name ion, which signifies
a wanderer.

2. The electrical charge of ions. Each ion carries a heavy electrical charge, and in this respect
differs from an atom or molecule. It is evident that the sodium in the form of an ion must
differ in some important way from ordinary sodium, for sodium ions, formed from sodium nitrate,
give no visible evidence of their presence in water, whereas metallic sodium at once decomposes
the water. The electrical charge, therefore, greatly modifies the usual chemical properties
of the element.

3. The positive charges equal the negative charges. The ions formed by the dissociation of
any molecule are of two kinds. One kind is charged with positive electricity and the other
with negative electricity; moreover the sum of all the positive charges is always equal to
the sum of all the negative charges. The solution as a whole is therefore electrically neutral.
If we represent dissociation by the usual chemical equations, with the electrical charges indicated
by + and - signs following the symbols, the dissociation of sodium chloride molecules is represented
thus:

    NaCl --> Na^{+}, Cl^{-}.

The positive charge on each sodium ion exactly equals the negative charge on each chlorine
ion. Sodium sulphate dissociates, as shown in the equation

    Na{2}SO{4} --> 2Na^{+}, SO{4}^{--}.

Here the positive charge on the two sodium ions equals the double negative charge on the SO{4} ion.

4. Not all compounds dissociate. Only those compounds dissociate whose solutions form electrolytes.
Thus salt dissociates when dissolved in water, the resulting solution being an electrolyte.
Sugar, on the other hand, does not dissociate and its solution is not a conductor of the electric
current.

5. Extent of dissociation differs in different liquids. While compounds most readily undergo
dissociation in water, yet dissociation often occurs to a limited extent when solution takes
place in liquids other than water. In the discussion of solutions it will be understood that
the solvent is water unless otherwise noted.

~The theory of electrolytic dissociation and the properties of solutions.~ In order to be of
value, this theory must give a reasonable explanation of the properties of solutions. Let us
now see if the theory is in harmony with certain of these properties.

~The theory of electrolytic dissociation and the boiling and freezing points of solutions.~
We have seen that the boiling point of a solution of a substance is raised in proportion to
the concentration of the dissolved substance. This is but another way of saying that the change
in the boiling point of the solution is proportional to the number of molecules of the dissolved
substance present in the solution.

It has been found, however, that in the case of electrolytes the boiling point is raised more
than it should be to conform to this law. If the solute dissociates into ions, the reason for
this becomes clear. Each ion has the same effect on the boiling point as a molecule, and since
their number is greater than the number of molecules from which they were formed, the effect
on the boiling point is abnormally great.

In a similar way, the theory furnishes an explanation of the abnormal lowering of the freezing
point of electrolytes.

~The theory of electrolytic dissociation and electrolysis.~ The changes taking place during
electrolysis harmonize very completely with the theory of dissociation. This will become clear
from a study of the following examples.

1. Electrolysis of sodium chloride. Fig. 32 represents a vessel in which the electrolyte is
a solution of sodium chloride (NaCl). According to the dissociation theory the molecules of
sodium chloride dissociate into the ions Na^{+} and Cl^{-}. The Na^{+} ions are attracted to
the cathode owing to its large negative charge. On coming into contact with the cathode, the
Na^{+} ions give up their positive charge and are then ordinary sodium atoms. They immediately
decompose the water according to the equation

    Na + H{2}O = NaOH + H,

and hydrogen is evolved about the cathode.

The chlorine ions on being discharged at the anode in similar manner may either be given off
as chlorine gas, or may attack the water, as represented in the equation

    2Cl + H{2}O = 2HCl + O.

2. Electrolysis of water. The reason for the addition of sulphuric acid to water in the preparation
of oxygen and hydrogen by electrolysis will now be clear. Water itself is not an electrolyte
to an appreciable extent; that is, it does not form enough ions to carry a current. Sulphuric
acid dissolved in water is an electrolyte, and dissociates into the ions 2 H^{+} and SO{4}^{--}.
In the process of electrolysis of the solution, the hydrogen ions travel to the cathode, and
on being discharged escape as hydrogen gas. The SO{4} ions, when discharged at the anode, act
upon water, setting free oxygen and once more forming sulphuric acid:

    SO{4} + H{2}O = H{2}SO{4} + O.

The sulphuric acid can again dissociate and the process repeat itself as long as any water
is left. Hence the hydrogen and oxygen set free in the electrolysis of water really come directly
from the acid but indirectly from the water.

3. Electrolysis of sodium sulphate. In a similar way, sodium sulphate (Na{2}SO{4}), when in
solution, gives the ions 2 Na^{+} and SO{4}^{--}. On being discharged, the sodium atoms decompose
water about the cathode, as in the case of sodium chloride, while the SO{4} ions when discharged
at the anode decompose the water, as represented in the equation

    SO{4} + H{2}O = H{2}SO{4} + O

That new substances are formed at the cathode and anode may be shown in the following way.
A U-tube, such as is represented in Fig. 33, is partially filled with a solution of sodium
sulphate, and the liquid in one arm is colored with red litmus, that in the other with blue
litmus. An electrode placed in the red solution is made to serve as cathode, while one in the
blue solution is made the anode. On allowing the current to pass, the blue solution turns red,
while the red solution turns blue. These are exactly the changes which would take place if
sodium hydroxide and sulphuric acid were to be set free at the electrodes, as required by the
theory.

~The properties of electrolytes depend upon the ions present.~ When a substance capable of
dissociating into ions is dissolved in water, the properties of the solution will depend upon
two factors: (1) the ions formed from the substance; (2) the undissociated molecules. Since
the ions are usually more active chemically than the molecules, most of the chemical properties
of an electrolyte are due to the ions rather than to the molecules.

The solutions of any two substances which give the same ion will have certain properties in
common. Thus all solutions containing the copper ion (Cu^{++}) are blue, unless the color is
modified by the presence of ions or molecules having some other color.

EXERCISES

1. Distinguish clearly between the following terms: electrolysis, electrolyte, electrolytic
dissociation, ions, solute, solvent, solution, saturated solution, and supersaturated solution.

2. Why does the water from some natural springs effervesce?

3. (a) Why does not the water of the ocean freeze? (b) Why will ice and salt produce a lower
temperature than ice alone?

4. Why does shaking or stirring make a solid dissolve more rapidly in a liquid?

5. By experiment it was found that a certain volume of water was saturated at 100° with 114
g. of potassium nitrate. On cooling to 0° a portion of the substance crystallized. (a) How
many grams of the substance remained in solution? (b) What was the strength of the solution
at 18°? (c) How much water had been used in the experiment?

6. (a) 10 g. of common salt were dissolved in water and the solution evaporated to dryness;
what weight of solid was left? (b) 10 g. of zinc were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the
solution evaporated to dryness; what weight of solid was left?

7. Account for the fact that sugar sometimes deposits from molasses, even when no evaporation
has taken place.

8. (a) From the standpoint of the theory of electrolytic dissociation, write the simple equation
for a dilute solution of copper sulphate (CuSO{4}); this solution is blue. (b) In the same
manner, write one for sodium sulphate; this solution is colorless. (c) How would you account
for the color of the copper sulphate solution?

9. (a) As in the preceding exercise, write a simple equation for a dilute solution of copper
chloride (CuCl{2}); this solution is blue. (b) In the same manner, write one for sodium chloride;
this solution is colorless. To what is the blue color due?

10. What component is present in concentrated sulphuric acid that is almost wanting in very
dilute sulphuric acid?

11. Why will vegetables cook faster when boiled in strong salt water than when boiled in pure
water?

12. How do you explain the foaming of soda water?

CHAPTER X

ACIDS, BASES, AND SALTS; NEUTRALIZATION

~Acids, bases, and salts.~ The three classes of compounds known respectively as acids, bases,
and salts include the great majority of the compounds with which we shall have to deal. It
is important, therefore, for us to consider each of these classes in a systematic way. The
individual members belonging to each class will be discussed in detail in the appropriate places,
but a few representatives of each class will be described in this chapter with special reference
to the common properties in accordance with which they are classified.

~The familiar acids.~ Hydrochloric acid is a gas composed of hydrogen and chlorine, and has
the formula HCl. The substance is very soluble in water, and it is this solution which is usually
called hydrochloric acid. Nitric acid is a liquid composed of hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen,
having the formula HNO{3}. As sold commercially it is mixed with about 32% of water. Sulphuric
acid, whose composition is represented by the formula H{2}SO{4}, is an oily liquid nearly twice
as heavy as water, and is commonly called oil of vitriol.

~Characteristics of acids.~ (1) All acids contain hydrogen. (2) When dissolved in water the
molecules of the acid dissociate into two kinds of ions. One of these is always hydrogen and
is the cation (+), while the other consists of the remainder of the molecule and is the anion
(-). (3) The solution tastes sour. (4) It has the power to change the color of certain substances
called indicators. Thus blue litmus is changed to red, and yellow methyl orange is changed
to red. Since all acids produce hydrogen cations, while the anions of each are different, the
properties which all acids have in common when in solution, such as taste and action on indicators,
must be attributed to the hydrogen ions.

DEFINITION: An acid is a substance which produces hydrogen ions when dissolved in water or
other dissociating liquids.

~Undissociated acids.~ When acids are perfectly free from water, or are dissolved in liquids
like benzene which do not have the power of dissociating them into ions, they should have no
real acid properties. This is found to be the case. Under these circumstances they do not affect
the color of indicators or have any of the properties characteristic of acids.

The familiar bases. The bases most used in the laboratory are sodium hydroxide (NaOH), potassium
hydroxide (KOH), and calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH){2}). These are white solids, soluble in water,
the latter sparingly so. Some bases are very difficultly soluble in water. The very soluble
ones with most pronounced basic properties are sometimes called the alkalis.

~Characteristics of bases.~ (1) All bases contain hydrogen and oxygen. (2) When dissolved in
water the molecules of the base dissociate into two kinds of ions. One of these is always composed
of oxygen and hydrogen and is the anion. It has the formula OH and is called the hydroxyl ion.
The remainder of the molecule, which usually consists of a single atom, is the cation. (3)
The solution of a base has a soapy feel and a brackish taste. (4) It reverses the color change
produced in indicators by acids, turning red litmus blue, and red methyl orange yellow. Since
all bases produce hydroxyl anions, while the cations of each are different, the properties
which all bases have in common when in solution must be due to the hydroxyl ions.

DEFINITION: A base is a substance which produces hydroxyl ions when dissolved in water or other
dissociating liquids.

~Undissociated bases.~ Bases, in the absence of water or when dissolved in liquids which do
not dissociate them, should have none of the properties characteristic of this class of substances.
This has been found to be the case. For example, they have no effect upon indicators under
these circumstances.

~Neutralization.~ When an acid and a base are brought together in solution in proper proportion,
the characteristic properties of each disappear. The solution tastes neither sour nor brackish;
it has no effect upon indicators. There can therefore be neither hydrogen nor hydroxyl ions
present in the solution. A study of reactions of this kind has shown that the hydrogen ions
of the acid combine with the hydroxyl ions of the base to form molecules of water, water being
a substance which is not appreciably dissociated into ions. This action of an acid on a base
is called neutralization. The following equations express the neutralization of the three acids
by three bases, water being formed in each case.

    Na^{+}, OH^{-} + H^{+}, Cl^{-} = Na^{+}, Cl^{-} + H{2}O.

    K^{+}, OH^{-} + H^{+}, NO{3}^{-} = K^{+}, NO{3}^{-} + H{2}O.

    Ca^{++}, (OH){2}^{--} + H{2}^{++}, SO{4}^{--}
         = Ca^{++}, SO{4}^{--} + 2H{2}O.

DEFINITION: Neutralization consists in the union of the hydrogen ion of an acid with the hydroxyl
ion of a base to form water.

~Salts.~ It will be noticed that in neutralization the anion of the acid and the cation of
the base are not changed. If, however, the water is expelled by evaporation, these two ions
slowly unite, and when the water becomes saturated with the substance so produced, it separates
in the form of a solid called a salt.

DEFINITION: A salt is a substance formed by the union of the anion of an acid with the cation
of a base.

~Characteristics of salts.~ (1) From the definition of a salt it will be seen that there is
no element or group of elements which characterize salts. (2) Salts as a class have no peculiar
taste. (3) In the absence of all other substances they are without action on indicators. (4)
When dissolved in water they form two kinds of ions.

     ~Heat of neutralization.~ If neutralization is due to the union
     of hydrogen ions with hydroxyl ions, and nothing more, it
     follows that when a given weight of water is formed in
     neutralization, the heat set free should always be the same, no
     matter from what acid and base the two kinds of ions have been
     supplied. Careful experiments have shown that this is the case,
     provided no other reactions take place at the same time. When
     18g. of water are formed in neutralization, 13,700 cal. of heat
     are set free. This is represented in the equations

    Na^{+}, OH^{-} + H^{+}, Cl^{-}
         = Na^{+}, Cl^{-} + H{2}O + 13,700 cal.

    K^{+}, OH^{-} + H^{+}, NO{3}^{-}
         = K^{+}, NO{3}^{-} + H{2}O + 13,700 cal.

~Neutralization a quantitative act.~ Since neutralization is a definite chemical act, each
acid will require a perfectly definite weight of each base for its neutralization. For example,
a given weight of sulphuric acid will always require a definite weight of sodium hydroxide,
in accordance with the equation

    H{2}, SO{4} + 2Na, OH = Na{2}, SO{4} + 2H{2}O.

     ~Determination of the ratio in neutralization.~ The quantities of
     acid and base required in neutralization may be determined in
     the following way. Dilute solutions of the two substances are
     prepared, the sulphuric acid being placed in one of the
     burettes (Fig. 34) and the sodium hydroxide in the other. The
     levels of the two liquids are then brought to the zero marks of
     the burettes by means of the stopcocks. A measured volume of
     the acid is drawn off into a beaker, a few drops of litmus
     solution added, and the sodium hydroxide is run in drop by drop
     until the red litmus just turns blue. The volume of the sodium
     hydroxide consumed is then noted. If the concentrations of the
     two solutions are known, it is easy to calculate what weight of
     sodium hydroxide is required to neutralize a given weight of
     sulphuric acid. By evaporating the neutralized solution to
     dryness, the weight of the sodium sulphate formed can be
     determined directly. Experiment shows that the weights are
     always in accordance with the equation in the preceding
     paragraph.

~Extent of dissociation.~ The question will naturally arise, When an acid, base, or salt dissolves
in water, do all the molecules dissociate into ions, or only a part of them? The experiments
by which this question can be answered cannot be described here. It has been found, however,
that only a fraction of the molecules dissociate. The percentage which will dissociate in a
given case depends upon several conditions, the chief of which are: (1) The concentration of
the solution. In concentrated solutions only a very small percentage of dissociation occurs.
As the solution is diluted the percentage increases, and in very dilute solutions it may be
very large, though it is never complete in any ordinary solution. (2) The nature of the dissolved
compound. At equal concentrations substances differ much among themselves in the percentage
of dissociation. The great majority of salts are about equally dissociated. Acids and bases,
on the contrary, show great differences. Some are freely dissociated, while others are dissociated
to but a slight extent.

~Strength of acids and bases.~ Since acid and basic properties are due to hydrogen and hydroxyl
ions respectively, the acid or base which will produce the greatest percentage of these ions
at a given concentration must be regarded as the strongest representative of its class. The
acids and bases described in the foregoing paragraphs are all quite strong. In 10% solutions
they are dissociated to about 50%, and this is also approximately the extent to which most
salts are dissociated at this same concentration.

     ~Partial neutralization.~ 1. Basic salts. The chemical action
     between an acid and a base is not always as complete as has
     been represented in the foregoing paragraphs. For example, if
     the base magnesium hydroxide (Mg(OH){2}) and hydrochloric acid
     (HCl) are brought together in the ratio of an equal number of
     molecules of each, there will be only half enough hydrogen ions
     for the hydroxyl ions present.

         Mg, (OH){2} + H, Cl = Mg, OH, Cl + H{2}O.

     Magnesium, hydroxyl, and chlorine ions are left at the close of
     the reaction, and under the proper conditions unite to form
     molecules of the compound Mg(OH)Cl. This compound, when
     dissolved, can form hydroxyl ions and therefore possesses basic
     properties; it can also form the ions of a salt (Mg and Cl),
     and has properties characteristic of salts. Substances of this
     kind are called basic salts.

     DEFINITION: A basic salt is a substance which can give the
     ions both of a base and of a salt when dissolved in water.

     2. Acid salts. In a similar way, when sulphuric acid and
     sodium hydroxide are brought together in the ratio of equal
     numbers of the molecules of each, it is possible to have a
     reaction expressed by the equation

        Na, OH + H{2}, SO{4} = Na, H, SO{4} + H{2}O.

     The ions remaining after all the hydroxyl ions have been used
     up are those of an acid (H) and those of a salt (Na and
     SO{4}). These unite to form the substance NaHSO{4}, and as
     the solution becomes saturated with this substance through
     evaporation, it separates in the form of crystals. In solution
     this substance can give hydrogen ions, and therefore possesses
     acid properties; it can also give the ions characteristic of a
     salt. It is therefore called an acid salt.

     DEFINITION: An acid salt is one which can give the ions of an
     acid and of a salt when in solution.

     3. Normal salts. Salts which are the products of complete
     neutralization, such as Na{2}SO{4}, and which in solution can
     give neither hydrogen nor hydroxyl ions, but only the ions of a
     salt, are called normal salts to distinguish them from acid
     and basic salts.

~Methods of expressing reactions between compounds in solution.~ Chemical equations representing
reactions between substances in solution may represent the details of the reaction, or they
may simply indicate the final products formed. In the latter case the formation of ions is
not indicated. Thus, if we wish to call attention to the details of the reaction between sodium
hydroxide and hydrochloric acid in solution, the equation is written as follows:

    Na^{+}, OH^{-} + H^{+}, Cl^{-} = Na^{+}, Cl^{-} + H{2}O.

On the other hand, if we wish simply to represent the final products formed, the following is used.

    NaOH + HCl = NaCl + H{2}O.

Both of these methods will therefore be used:

~Radicals.~ It has been emphasized that the hydroxyl group (OH) always forms the anion of a
base, while the group NO{3} forms the anion of nitric acid and sodium nitrate; the group SO{4},
the anion of sulphuric acid and calcium sulphate. A group of elements which in this way constitutes
a part of a molecule, acting as a unit in a chemical change, or forming ions in solution, is
called a radical. Some of these radicals have been given special names, the names signifying
the elements present in the radical. Thus we have the hydroxyl radical (OH) and the nitrate
radical (NO{3}).

DEFINITION: A radical is a group of elements forming part of a molecule, and acting as a unit
in chemical reactions.

~Names of acids, bases, and salts.~ Since acids, bases, and salts are so intimately related
to each other, it is very advantageous to give names to the three classes in accordance with
some fixed system. The system universally adopted is as follows:

~Naming of bases.~ All bases are called hydroxides. They are distinguished from each other
by prefixing the name of the element which is in combination with the hydroxyl group. Examples:
sodium hydroxide (NaOH); calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH){2}); copper hydroxide (Cu(OH){2}).

~Naming of acids.~ The method of naming acids depends upon whether the acid consists of two
elements or three.

1. Binary acids. Acids containing only one element in addition to hydrogen are called binary
acids. They are given names consisting of the prefix hydro-, the name of the second element
present, and the termination -ic. Examples: hydrochloric acid (HCl); hydrosulphuric acid (H{2}S).

2. Ternary acids. In addition to the two elements present in binary acids, the great majority
of acids also contain oxygen. They therefore consist of three elements and are called ternary
acids. It usually happens that the same three elements can unite in different proportions to
make several different acids. The most familiar one of these is given a name ending in the
suffix -ic, while the one with less oxygen is given a similar name, but ending in the suffix
-ous. Examples: nitric acid (HNO{3}); nitrous acid (HNO{2}). In cases where more than two acids
are known, use is made of prefixes in addition to the two suffixes -ic and -ous. Thus the prefix
per- signifies an acid still richer in oxygen; the prefix hypo- signifies one with less oxygen.

~Naming of salts.~ A salt derived from a binary acid is given a name consisting of the names
of the two elements composing it, with the termination -ide. Example: sodium chloride (NaCl).
All other binary compounds are named in the same way.

A salt of a ternary acid is named in accordance with the acid from which it is derived. A ternary
acid with the termination -ic gives a salt with the name ending in -ate, while an acid with
termination -ous gives a salt with the name ending in -ite. The following table will make the
application of these principles clear:

     ACIDS          SYMBOL       SALTS                SYMBOL

    Hydrochloric   HCl          Sodium chloride      NaCl
    Hypochlorous   HClO         Sodium hypochlorite  NaClO
    Chlorous       HClO{2}     Sodium chlorite      NaClO{2}
    Chloric        HClO{3}     Sodium chlorate      NaClO{3}
    Perchloric     HClO{4}     Sodium perchlorate   NaClO{4}

EXERCISES

1. 25 cc. of a solution containing 40 g. of sodium hydroxide per liter was found to neutralize
25 cc. of a solution of hydrochloric acid. What was the strength of the acid solution?

2. After neutralizing a solution of sodium hydroxide with nitric acid, there remained after
evaporation 100 g. of sodium nitrate. How much of each substance had been used?

3. A solution contains 18 g. of hydrochloric acid per 100 cc. It required 25 cc. of this solution
to neutralize 30 cc. of a solution of sodium hydroxide. What was the strength of the sodium
hydroxide solution in parts per hundred?

4. When perfectly dry sulphuric acid is treated with perfectly dry sodium hydroxide, no chemical
change takes place. Explain.

5. When cold, concentrated sulphuric acid is added to zinc, no change takes place. Recall the
action of dilute sulphuric acid on the same metal. How do you account for the difference?

6. A solution of hydrochloric acid in benzene does not conduct the electric current. When this
solution is treated with zinc, will hydrogen be evolved? Explain.

7. (a) Write equation for preparation of hydrogen from zinc and dilute sulphuric acid. (b)
Rewrite the same equation from the standpoint of the theory of electrolytic dissociation, (c)
Subtract the common SO{4} ion from both members of the equation, (d) From the resulting equation,
explain in what the preparation of hydrogen consists when examined from the standpoint of this
theory.

8. In the same manner as in the preceding exercise, explain in what the action of sodium on
water to give hydrogen consists.

CHAPTER XI

VALENCE

~Definition of valence.~ A study of the formulas of various binary compounds shows that the
elements differ between themselves in the number of atoms of other elements which they are
able to hold in combination. This is illustrated in the formulas

            HCl,        H{2}O,   H{3}N,   H{4}C.
    (hydrochloric acid) (water) (ammonia) (marsh gas)

It will be noticed that while one atom of chlorine combines with one atom of hydrogen, an atom
of oxygen combines with two, an atom of nitrogen with three, one of carbon with four. The number
which expresses this combining ratio between atoms is a definite property of each element and
is called its valence.

DEFINITION: The valence of an element is that property which determines the number of the atoms
of another element which its atom can hold in combination.

~Valence a numerical property.~ Valence is therefore merely a numerical relation and does not
convey any information in regard to the intensity of the affinity between atoms. Judging by
the heat liberated in their union, oxygen has a far stronger affinity for hydrogen than does
nitrogen, but an atom of oxygen can combine with two atoms only of hydrogen, while an atom
of nitrogen can combine with three.

~Measure of valence.~ In expressing the valence of an element we must select some standard
for comparison, just as in the measurement of any other numerical quantity. It has been found
that an atom of hydrogen is never able to hold in combination more than one atom of any other
element. Hydrogen is therefore taken as the standard, and other elements are compared with
it in determining their valence. A number of other elements are like hydrogen in being able
to combine with at most one atom of other elements, and such elements are called univalent.
Among these are chlorine, iodine, and sodium. Elements such as oxygen, calcium, and zinc, which
can combine with two atoms of hydrogen or other univalent elements, are said to be divalent.
Similarly, we have trivalent, tetravalent, pentavalent elements. None have a valence of more
than 8.

~Indirect measure of valence.~ Many elements, especially among the metals, do not readily form
compounds with hydrogen, and their valence is not easy to determine by direct comparison with
the standard element. These elements, however, combine with other univalent elements, such
as chlorine, and their valence can be determined from the compounds so formed.

~Variable valence.~ Many elements are able to exert different valences under differing circumstances.
Thus we have the compounds Cu{2}O and CuO, CO and CO{2}, FeCl{2} and FeCl{3}. It is not always
possible to assign a fixed valence to an element. Nevertheless each element tends to exert
some normal valence, and the compounds in which it has a valence different from this are apt
to be unstable and easily changed into compounds in which the valence of the element is normal.
The valences of the various elements will become familiar as the elements are studied in detail.

~Valence and combining ratios.~ When elements combine to form compounds, the ratio in which
they combine will be determined by their valences. In those compounds which consist of two
elements directly combined, the union is between such numbers of the two atoms as have equal
valences. Elements of the same valence will therefore combine atom for atom. Designating the
valence of the atoms by Roman numerals placed above their symbols, we have the formulas

    II II   II III   III   IV IV
    HCl,     ZnO,     BN,   CSi.

A divalent element, on the other hand, will combine with two atoms of a univalent element.
Thus we have

    II II         II II
    ZnCl{2} and H{2}O

(the numerals above each symbol representing the sum of the valences of the atoms of the element
present). A trivalent atom will combine with three atoms of a univalent element, as in the compound

    III III
     H{3}N.

If a trivalent element combines with a divalent element, the union will be between two atoms
of the trivalent element and three of the divalent element, since these numbers are the smallest
which have equal valences. Thus the oxide of the trivalent metal aluminium has the formula
Al{2}O{3}. Finally one atom of a tetravalent element such as carbon will combine with four
atoms of a univalent element, as in the compound CH{4}, or with two atoms of a divalent element,
as in the compound CO{2}.

We have no knowledge as to why elements differ in their combining power, and there is no way
to determine their valences save by experiment.

     ~Valence and the structure of compounds.~ Compounds will be met
     from time to time which are apparent exceptions to the general
     statements just made in regard to valence. Thus, from the
     formula for hydrogen dioxide (H{2}O{2}), it might be
     supposed that the oxygen is univalent; yet it is certainly
     divalent in water (H{2}O). That it may also be divalent in
     H{2}O{2} may be made clear as follows: The unit valence of
     each element may be represented graphically by a line attached
     to its symbol. Univalent hydrogen and divalent oxygen will then
     have the symbols H- and -O-. When atoms combine, each unit
     valence of one atom combines with a unit valence of another
     atom. Thus the composition of water may be expressed by the
     formula H-O-H, which is meant to show that each of the unit
     valences of oxygen is satisfied with the unit valence of a
     single hydrogen atom.

     The chemical conduct of hydrogen dioxide leads to the
     conclusion that the two oxygen atoms of its molecule are in
     direct combination with each other, and in addition each is in
     combination with a hydrogen atom. This may be expressed by the
     formula H-O-O-H. The oxygen in the compound is therefore
     divalent, just as it is in water. It will thus be seen that the
     structure of a compound must be known before the valences of
     the atoms making up the compound can be definitely decided
     upon.

     Such formulas as H-O-H and H-O-O-H are known as structural
     formulas, because they are intended to show what is known in
     regard to the arrangement of the atoms in the molecules.

~Valence and the replacing power of atoms.~ Just as elements having the same valence combine
with each other atom for atom, so if they replace each other in a chemical reaction they will
do so in the same ratio. This is seen in the following equations, in which a univalent hydrogen
atom is replaced by a univalent sodium atom:

    NaOH + HCl = NaCl + H{2}O.

    2NaOH + H{2}SO{4} = Na{2}SO{4} + 2H{2}O.

    Na + H{2}O = NaOH + H.

Similarly, one atom of divalent calcium will replace two atoms of univalent hydrogen or one
of divalent zinc:

    Ca(OH){2} + 2 HCl = CaCl{2} + 2H{2}O.

    CaCl{2} + ZnSO{4} = CaSO{4} + ZnCl{2}.

In like manner, one atom of a trivalent element will replace three of a univalent element,
or two atoms will replace three atoms of a divalent element.

~Valence and its applications to formulas of salts.~ While the true nature of valence is not
understood and many questions connected with the subject remain unanswered, yet many of the
main facts are of much help to the student. Thus the formula of a salt, differs from that of
the acid from which it is derived in that the hydrogen of the acid has been replaced by a metal.
If, then, it is known that a given metal forms a normal salt with a certain acid, the formula
of the salt can at once be determined if the valence of the metal is known. Since sodium is
univalent, the sodium salts of the acids HCl and H{2}SO{4} will be respectively NaCl and Na{2}SO{4}.
One atom of divalent zinc will replace 2 hydrogen atoms, so that the corresponding zinc salts
will be ZnCl{2} and ZnSO{4}.

The formula for aluminium sulphate is somewhat more difficult to determine. Aluminium is trivalent,
and the simplest ratio in which the aluminium atom can replace the hydrogen in sulphuric acid
is 2 atoms of aluminium (6 valences) to 3 molecules of sulphuric acid (6 hydrogen atoms). The
formula of the sulphate will then be Al{2}(SO{4}){3}.

~Valence and its application to equation writing.~ It will be readily seen that a knowledge
of valence is also of very great assistance in writing the equations for reactions of double
decomposition. Thus, in the general reaction between an acid and a base, the essential action
is between the univalent hydrogen ion and the univalent hydroxyl ion. The base and the acid
must always be taken in such proportions as to secure an equal number of each of these ions.
Thus, in the reaction between ferric hydroxide (Fe(OH){3}) and sulphuric acid (H{2}SO{4}),
it will be necessary to take 2 molecules of the former and 3 of the latter in order to have
an equal number of the two ions, namely, 6. The equation will then be

    2Fe(OH){3} + 3H{2}SO{4} = Fe{2}(SO{4}){3} + 6H{2}O.

Under certain conditions the salts Al{2}(SO{4}){3} and CaCl{2} undergo double decomposition,
the two metals, aluminium and calcium, exchanging places. The simplest ratio of exchange in
this case is 2 atoms of aluminium (6 valences) and 3 atoms of calcium (6 valences). The reaction
will therefore take place between 1 molecule of Al{2}(SO{4}){3} and 3 of CaCl{2}, and the equation
is as follows:

    Al{2}(SO{4}){3} + 3 CaCl{2} = 3CaSO{4} + 2AlCl{3}.

EXERCISES

1. Sodium, calcium, and aluminium have valences of 1, 2, and 3 respectively; write the formulas
of their chlorides, sulphates, and phosphates (phosphoric acid = H{3}PO{4}), on the supposition
that they form salts having the normal composition.

2. Iron forms one series of salts in which it has a valence of 2, and another series in which
it has a valence of 3; write the formulas for the two chlorides of iron, also for the two sulphates,
on the supposition that these have the normal composition.

3. Write the equation representing the neutralization of each of the following bases by each
of the acids whose formulas are given:

    NaOH           HCl
    Ba(OH){2}     H{2}SO{4}
    Al(OH){3}     H{3}PO{4}

4. Silver acts as a univalent element and calcium as a divalent element in the formation of
their respective nitrates and chlorides. (a) Write the formula for silver nitrate; for calcium
chloride. (b) When solutions of these two salts are mixed, the two metals, silver and calcium,
exchange places; write the equation for the reaction.

5. Antimony acts as a trivalent element in the formation of a chloride. (a) What is the formula
for antimony chloride? (b) When hydrosulphuric acid (H{2}S) is passed into a solution of this
chloride the hydrogen and antimony exchange places; write the equation for the reaction.

6. Lead has a valence of 2 and iron of 3 in the compounds known respectively as lead nitrate
and ferric sulphate. (a) Write the formulas for these two compounds. (b) When their solutions
are mixed the two metals exchange places; write the equation for the reaction.

CHAPTER XII

COMPOUNDS OF NITROGEN

~Occurrence.~ As has been stated in a former chapter, nitrogen constitutes a large fraction
of the atmosphere. The compounds of nitrogen, however, cannot readily be obtained from this
source, since at any ordinary temperature nitrogen is able to combine directly with very few
of the elements.

In certain forms of combination nitrogen occurs in the soil from which it is taken up by plants
and built into complex substances composed chiefly of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen.
Animals feeding on these plants assimilate the nitrogenous matter, so that this element is
an essential constituent of both plants and animals.

~Decomposition of organic matter by bacteria.~ When living matter dies and undergoes decay
complicated chemical reactions take place, one result of which is that the nitrogen of the
organic matter is set free either as the element nitrogen, or in the form of simple compounds,
such as ammonia (NH{3}) or oxides of nitrogen. Experiment has shown that all such processes
of decay are due to the action of different kinds of bacteria, each particular kind effecting
a different change.

~Decomposition of organic matter by heat.~ When organic matter is strongly heated decomposition
into simpler substances takes place in much the same way as in the case of bacterial decomposition.
Coal is a complex substance of vegetable origin, consisting largely of carbon, but also containing
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. When this is heated in a closed vessel so that air is excluded,
about one seventh of the nitrogen is converted into ammonia, and this is the chief source from
which ammonia and its compounds are obtained.

COMPOUNDS OF NITROGEN WITH HYDROGEN

~Ammonia~ (NH{3}). Several compounds consisting exclusively of nitrogen and hydrogen are known,
but only one, ammonia, need be considered here.

~Preparation of ammonia.~ Ammonia is prepared in the laboratory by a different method from
the one which is used commercially.

1. Laboratory method. In the laboratory ammonia is prepared from ammonium chloride, a compound
having the formula NH{4}Cl, and obtained in the manufacture of coal gas. As will be shown later
in the chapter, the group NH{4} in this compound acts as a univalent radical and is known as
ammonium. When ammonium chloride is warmed with sodium hydroxide, the ammonium and sodium change
places, the reaction being expressed in the following equation.

    NH{4}Cl + NaOH = NaCl + NH{4}OH.

The ammonium hydroxide (NH{4}OH) so formed is unstable and breaks down into water and ammonia.

    NH{4}OH = NH{3} + H{2}O.

Calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH){2}) is frequently used in place of the more expensive sodium hydroxide,
the equations being

    2NH{4}Cl + Ca(OH){2} = CaCl{2} + 2NH{4}OH,

    2NH{4}OH = 2H{2}O + 2NH{3}.

     In the preparation, the ammonium chloride and calcium hydroxide
     are mixed together and placed in a flask arranged as shown in
     Fig. 35. The mixture is gently warmed, when ammonia is evolved
     as a gas and is collected by displacement of air.

2. Commercial method. Nearly all the ammonia of commerce comes from the gasworks. Ordinary
illuminating gas is made by distilling coal, as will be explained later, and among the products
of this distillation a solution of ammonia in water is obtained. This solution, known as gas
liquor, contains not only ammonia but other soluble substances. Most of these combine chemically
with lime, while ammonia does not; if then lime is added to the gas liquor and the liquor is
heated, the ammonia is driven out from the mixture. It may be dissolved again in pure, cold
water, forming aqua ammonia, or the ammonia water of commerce.

     ~Preparation from hydrogen and nitrogen.~ When electric sparks
     are passed for some time through a mixture of hydrogen and
     nitrogen, a small percentage of the two elements in the mixture
     is changed into ammonia. The action soon ceases, however, for
     the reason that ammonia is decomposed by the electric
     discharge. The reaction expressed in the equation

         N + 3H = NH{3}

     can therefore go in either direction depending upon the
     relative quantities of the substances present. This recalls the
     similar change from oxygen into ozone, which soon ceases
     because the ozone is in turn decomposed into oxygen.

~Physical properties.~ Under ordinary conditions ammonia is a gas whose density is 0.59. It
is therefore little more than half as heavy as air. It is easily condensed into a colorless
liquid, and can now be purchased in liquid form in steel cylinders. The gas is colorless and
has a strong, suffocating odor. It is extremely soluble in water, 1 l. of water at 0° and 760
mm. pressure dissolving 1148 l. of the gas. In dissolving this large volume of gas the water
expands considerably, so that the density of the solution is less than that of water, the strongest
solutions having a density of 0.88.

~Chemical properties.~ Ammonia will not support combustion, nor will it burn under ordinary
conditions. In an atmosphere of oxygen it burns with a feeble, yellowish flame. When quite
dry it is not a very active substance, but when moist it combines with a great many substances,
particularly with acids.

~Uses.~ It has been stated that ammonia can be condensed to a liquid by the application of
pressure. If the pressure is removed from the liquid so obtained, it rapidly passes again into
the gaseous state and in so doing absorbs a large amount of heat. Advantage is taken of this
fact in the preparation of artificial ice. Large quantities of ammonia are also used in the
preparation of ammonium compounds.

     ~The manufacture of artificial ice.~ Fig. 36 illustrates the
     method of preparing artificial ice. The ammonia gas is
     liquefied in the pipes X by means of the pump Y. The heat
     generated is absorbed by water flowing over the pipes. The
     pipes lead into a large brine tank, a cross section of which is
     shown in the figure. Into the brine (concentrated solution of
     common salt) contained in this tank are dipped the vessels A,
     B, C, filled with pure water. The pressure is removed from
     the liquid ammonia as it passes into the pipes immersed in the
     brine, and the heat absorbed by the rapid evaporation of the
     liquid lowers the temperature of the brine below zero. The
     water in A, B, C is thereby frozen into cakes of ice. The
     gaseous ammonia resulting from the evaporation of the liquid
     ammonia is again condensed, so that the process is continuous.

~Ammonium hydroxide~ (NH{4}OH). The solution of ammonia in water is found to have strong basic
properties and therefore contains hydroxyl ions. It turns red litmus blue; it has a soapy feel;
it neutralizes acids, forming salts with them. It seems probable, therefore, that when ammonia
dissolves in water it combines chemically with it according to the equation

    NH{3} + H{2}O = NH{4}OH,

and that it is the substance NH{4}OH, called ammonium hydroxide, which has the basic properties,
dissociating into the ions NH{4} and OH. Ammonium hydroxide has never been obtained in a pure
state. The ending -ium is given to the name to indicate the metallic properties of the substance,
since the names of the metals in general have that ending. The salts formed by the action of
the base ammonium hydroxide on acids are called ammonium salts. Thus, with hydrochloric acid,
ammonium chloride is formed in accordance with the equation

    NH{4}OH + HCl = NH{4}Cl + H{2}O.

Similarly, with nitric acid, ammonium nitrate (NH{4}NO{3}) is formed, and with sulphuric acid,
ammonium sulphate ((NH{4}){2}S0{4}).

It will be noticed that in the neutralization of ammonium hydroxide by acids the group NH{4}
replaces one hydrogen atom of the acid, just as sodium does. The group therefore acts as a
univalent metal.

~Combination of nitrogen with hydrogen by volume.~ Under suitable conditions ammonia can be
decomposed into nitrogen and hydrogen by passing electric sparks through the gas. Accurate
measurement has shown that when ammonia is decomposed, two volumes of the gas yield one volume
of nitrogen and three volumes of hydrogen. Consequently, if the two elements were to combine
directly, one volume of nitrogen would combine with three volumes of hydrogen to form two volumes
of ammonia. Here, as in the formation of steam from hydrogen and oxygen, small whole numbers
serve to indicate the relation between the volumes of combining gases and that of the gaseous
product.

~Nitric acid~ (HNO{3}). Nitric acid is not found to any extent in nature, but some of its salts,
especially sodium nitrate (NaNO{3}) and potassium nitrate (KNO{3}) are found in large quantities.
From these salts nitric acid can be obtained.

~Preparation of nitric acid.~ When sodium nitrate is treated with concentrated cold sulphuric
acid, no chemical action seems to take place. If, however, the mixture is heated in a retort,
nitric acid is given off as a vapor and may be easily condensed to a liquid by passing the
vapor into a tube surrounded by cold water, as shown in Fig. 37. An examination of the liquid
left in the retort shows that it contains sodium acid sulphate (NaHSO{4}), so that the reaction
may be represented by the equation

    NaNO{3} + H{2}SO{4} = NaHSO{4} + HNO{3}.

     If a smaller quantity of sulphuric acid is taken and the
     mixture is heated to a high temperature, normal sodium sulphate
     is formed:

         2NaNO{3} + H{2}SO{4} = Na{2}SO{4} + 2HNO{3}.

     In this case, however, the higher temperature required
     decomposes a part of the nitric acid.

     ~The commercial preparation of nitric acid.~ Fig. 38 illustrates
     a form of apparatus used in the preparation of nitric acid on a
     large scale. Sodium nitrate and sulphuric acid are heated in
     the iron retort A. The resulting acid vapors pass in the
     direction indicated by the arrows, and are condensed in the
     glass tubes B, which are covered with cloth kept cool by
     streams of water. These tubes are inclined so that the liquid
     resulting from the condensation of the vapors runs back into
     C and is drawn off into large vessels (D).

~Physical properties of nitric acid.~ Pure nitric acid is a colorless liquid, which boils at
about 86° and has a density of 1.56. The concentrated acid of commerce contains about 68% of
the acid, the remainder being water. Such a mixture has a density of 1.4. The concentrated
acid fumes somewhat in moist air, and has a sharp choking odor.

~Chemical properties.~ The most important chemical properties of nitric acid are the following.

1. Acid properties. As the name indicates, this substance is an acid, and has all the properties
of that class of substances. It changes blue litmus red and has a sour taste in dilute solutions.
It forms hydrogen ions in solution and neutralizes bases forming salts. It also acts upon the
oxides of most metals, forming a salt and water. It is one of the strongest acids.

2. Decomposition on heating. When boiled, or exposed for some time to sunlight, it suffers
a partial decomposition according to the equation

    2HNO{3} = H{2}O + 2NO{2} + O.

The substance NO{2}, called nitrogen peroxide, is a brownish gas, which is readily soluble
in water and in nitric acid. It therefore dissolves in the undecomposed acid, and imparts a
yellowish or reddish color to it. Concentrated nitric acid highly charged with this substance
is called fuming nitric acid.

3. Oxidizing action. According to its formula, nitric acid contains a large percentage of oxygen,
and the reaction just mentioned shows that the compound is not a very stable one, easily undergoing
decomposition. These properties should make it a good oxidizing agent, and we find that this
is the case. Under ordinary circumstances, when acting as an oxidizing agent, it is decomposed
according to the equation

    2HNO{3} = H{2}O + 2NO + 3O.

The oxygen is taken up by the substance oxidized, and not set free, as is indicated in the
equation. Thus, if carbon is oxidized by nitric acid, the oxygen combines with carbon, forming
carbon dioxide (CO{2}):

    C + 2O = CO{2}.

4. Action on metals. We have seen that when an acid acts upon a metal hydrogen is set free.
Accordingly, when nitric acid acts upon a metal, such as copper, we should expect the reaction
to take place which is expressed in the equation

    Cu + 2HNO{3} = Cu(NO{3}){2} + 2H.

This reaction does take place, but the hydrogen set free is immediately oxidized to water by
another portion of the nitric acid according to the equation

    HNO{3} + 3H = 2H{2}O + NO.

As these two equations are written, two atoms of hydrogen are given off in the first equation,
while three are used up in the second. In order that the hydrogen may be equal in the two equations,
we must multiply the first by 3 and the second by 2. We shall then have

    3Cu + 6HNO{3} = 3Cu(NO{3}){2} + 6H,

    2HNO{3} + 6H = 4H{2}O + 2NO.

The two equations may now be combined into one by adding the quantities on each side of the
equality sign, canceling the hydrogen which is given off in the one reaction and used up in
the other. The reaction just given is, however, the usual one.

     ~Importance of steps in a reaction.~ This complete equation has
     the advantage of making it possible to calculate very easily
     the proportions in which the various substances enter into the
     reaction or are formed in it. It is unsatisfactory in that it
     does not give full information about the way in which the
     reaction takes place. For example, it does not suggest that
     hydrogen is at first formed, and subsequently transformed into
     water. It is always much more important to remember the steps
     in a chemical reaction than to remember the equation expressing
     the complete action; for if these steps in the reaction are
     understood, the complete equation is easily obtained in the
     manner just described.

~Salts of nitric acid,--nitrates.~ The salts of nitric acid are called nitrates. Many of these
salts will be described in the study of the metals. They are all soluble in water, and when
heated to a high temperature undergo decomposition. In a few cases a nitrate on being heated
evolves oxygen, forming a nitrite:

    NaNO{3} = NaNO{2} + O.

In other cases the decomposition goes further, and the metal is left as oxide:

    Cu(NO{3}){2} = CuO + 2NO{2} + O.

~Nitrous acid~ (HNO{2}). It is an easy matter to obtain sodium nitrite (NaNO{2}), as the reaction
given on the previous page indicates. Instead of merely heating the nitrate, it is better to
heat it together with a mild reducing agent, such as lead, when the reaction takes place which
is expressed by the equation

    NaNO{3} + Pb = PbO + NaNO{2}.

When sodium nitrite is treated with an acid, such as sulphuric acid, it is decomposed and nitrous
acid is set free:

    NaNO{2} + H{2}SO{4} = NaHSO{4} + HNO{2}.

The acid is very unstable, however, and decomposes readily into water and nitrogen trioxide
(N{2}O{3}):

    2HNO{2} = H{2}O + N{2}O{3}.

Dilute solutions of the acid, however, can be obtained.

COMPOUNDS OF NITROGEN WITH OXYGEN

Nitrogen combines with oxygen to form five different oxides. The formulas and names of these
are as follows:

    N{2}O       nitrous oxide.
    NO           nitric oxide.
    NO{2}       nitrogen peroxide.
    N{2}O{3}   nitrogen trioxide, or nitrous anhydride.
    N{2}O{5}   nitrogen pentoxide, or nitric anhydride.

These will now be briefly discussed.

~Nitrous oxide~ (laughing gas) (N{2}O). Ammonium nitrate, like all nitrates, undergoes decomposition
when heated; and owing to the fact that it contains no metal, but does contain both oxygen
and hydrogen, the reaction is a peculiar one. It is represented by the equation

    NH{4}NO{3} = 2H{2}O + N{2}O.

The oxide of nitrogen so formed is called nitrous oxide or laughing gas. It is a colorless
gas having a slight odor. It is somewhat soluble in water, and in solution has a slightly sweetish
taste. It is easily converted into a liquid and can be purchased in this form. When inhaled
it produces a kind of hysteria (hence the name "laughing gas"), and even unconsciousness and
insensibility to pain if taken in large amounts. It has long been used as an anæsthetic for
minor surgical operations, such as those of dentistry, but owing to its unpleasant after effects
it is not so much in use now as formerly.

Chemically, nitrous oxide is remarkable for the fact that it is a very energetic oxidizing
agent. Substances such as carbon, sulphur, iron, and phosphorus burn in it almost as brilliantly
as in oxygen, forming oxides and setting free nitrogen. Evidently the oxygen in nitrous oxide
cannot be held in very firm combination by the nitrogen.

~Nitric oxide~ (NO). We have seen that when nitric acid acts upon metals, such as copper, the
reaction represented by the following equation takes place:

    3Cu + 8HNO{3} = 3Cu(NO{3}){3} + 2NO + 4H{2}O.

Nitric oxide is most conveniently prepared in this way. The metal is placed in the flask A
(Fig. 39) and the acid added slowly through the funnel tube B. The gas escapes through C and
is collected over water.

Pure nitric oxide is a colorless gas, slightly heavier than air, and is practically insoluble
in water. It is a difficult gas to liquefy. Unlike nitrous oxide, nitric oxide does not part
with its oxygen easily, and burning substances introduced into this gas are usually extinguished.
A few substances like phosphorus, which have a very strong affinity for oxygen and which are
burning energetically in the air, will continue to burn in an atmosphere of nitric oxide. In
this case the nitric oxide loses all of its oxygen and the nitrogen is set free as gas.

~Action of nitric oxide with oxygen.~ When nitric oxide comes into contact with oxygen or with
the air, it at once combines with the oxygen even at ordinary temperatures, forming a reddish-yellow
gas of the formula NO{2}, which is called nitrogen peroxide. This action is not energetic enough
to produce a flame, though considerable heat is set free.

~Nitrogen peroxide~ (NO{2}). This gas, as we have just seen, is formed by allowing nitric oxide
to come into contact with oxygen. It can also be made by heating certain nitrates, such as
lead nitrate:

    Pb(NO{3}){2} = PbO + 2NO{2} + O.

It is a reddish-yellow gas of unpleasant odor, which is quite poisonous when inhaled. It is
heavier than air and is easily condensed to a liquid. It dissolves in water, but this solution
is not a mere physical solution; the nitrogen peroxide is decomposed, forming a mixture of
nitric and nitrous acids:

    2NO{2} + H{2}O = HNO{2} + HNO{3}.

Nitrogen peroxide will not combine with more oxygen; it will, however, give up a part of its
oxygen to burning substances, acting as an oxidizing agent:

    NO{2} = NO + O.

~Acid anhydrides.~ The oxides N{2}O{3} (nitrogen trioxide) and N{2}O{5} (nitrogen pentoxide)
are rarely prepared and need not be separately described. They bear a very interesting relation
to the acids of nitrogen. When dissolved in water they combine with the water, forming acids:

    N{2}O{3} + H{2}O = 2HNO{2},

    N{2}O{5} + H{2}O = 2HNO{3}.

On the other hand, nitrous acid very easily decomposes, yielding water and nitrogen trioxide,
and by suitable means nitric acid likewise may be decomposed into water and nitrogen pentoxide:

    2HNO{2} = H{2}O + N{2}O{3},

    2HNO{3} = H{2}O + N{2}O{5}.

In view of the close relation between these oxides and the corresponding acids, they are called
anhydrides of the acids, N{2}O{3} being nitrous anhydride and N{2}O{5} nitric anhydride.

DEFINITION: Any oxide which will combine with water to form an acid, or which together with
water is formed by the decomposition of an acid, is called an anhydride of that acid.

EXERCISES

1. Perfectly dry ammonia does not affect litmus paper. Explain.

2. Can ammonia be dried by passing the gas through concentrated sulphuric acid? Explain.

3. Ammonium hydroxide is a weak base, i.e. it is not highly dissociated. When it is neutralized
by strong acids the heat of reaction is less than when strong bases are so neutralized. Suggest
some possible cause for this.

4. Why is brine used in the manufacture of artificial ice?

5. Discuss the energy changes which take place in the manufacture of artificial ice.

6. What weight of ammonium chloride is necessary to furnish enough ammonia to saturate 1 l.
of water at 0° and 760 mm.?

7. What weight of sodium nitrate is necessary to prepare 100 cc. of commercial nitric acid?
What weight of potassium nitrate is necessary to furnish the same weight of acid?

8. 100 l. of nitrogen peroxide were dissolved in water and neutralized with sodium hydroxide.
What substances were formed and how much of each?(1 l. nitrogen peroxide weighs 2.05 grams.)

9. How many liters of nitrous oxide, measured under standard conditions, can be prepared from
10 g. of ammonium nitrate?

10. What weight of copper is necessary to prepare 50 l. of nitric oxide under standard conditions?

11. (a) Calculate the percentage composition of the oxides of nitrogen. (b) What important
law does this series of substances illustrate?

12. Write the equations representing the reactions between ammonium hydroxide, and sulphuric
acid and nitric acid respectively, in accordance with the theory of electrolytic dissociation.

13. In the same way, write the equations representing the reactions between nitric acid and
each of the following bases: NaOH, KOH, NH{4}OH, Ca(OH){2}.

CHAPTER XIII

REVERSIBLE REACTIONS AND CHEMICAL EQUILIBRIUM

~Reversible reactions.~ The reactions so far considered have been represented as continuing,
when once started, until one or the other substance taking part in the reaction has been used
up. In some reactions this is not the case. For example, we have seen that when steam is passed
over hot iron the reaction is represented by the equation

    3Fe + 4H{2}O = Fe{3}O{4} + 8H.

On the other hand, when hydrogen is passed over hot iron oxide the reverse reaction takes place:

    Fe{3}O{4} +8H = 3Fe + 4H{2}O.

The reaction can therefore go in either direction, depending upon the conditions of the experiment.
Such a reaction is called a reversible reaction. It is represented by an equation with double
arrows in place of the equality sign, thus:

    3Fe + 4H{2}O <--> Fe{3}O{4} + 8H.

In a similar way, the equation

    N + 3H <--> NH{3}

expresses the fact that under some conditions nitrogen may unite with hydrogen to form ammonia,
while under other conditions ammonia decomposes into nitrogen and hydrogen.

The conversion of oxygen into ozone is also reversible and may be represented thus:

    oxygen <--> ozone.

~Chemical equilibrium.~ Reversible reactions do not usually go on to completion in one direction
unless the conditions under which the reaction takes place are very carefully chosen. Thus,
if iron and steam are confined in a heated tube, the steam acts upon the iron, producing iron
oxide and hydrogen. But these substances in turn act upon each other to form iron and steam
once more. When these two opposite reactions go on at such rates that the weight of the iron
changed into iron oxide is just balanced by the weight of the iron oxide changed into iron,
there will be no further change in the relative weights of the four substances present in the
tube. The reaction is then said to have reached an equilibrium.

~Factors which determine the point of equilibrium.~ There are two factors which have a great
deal of influence in determining the point at which a given reaction will reach equilibrium.

1. Influence of the chemical nature of the substances. If two reversible reactions of the same
general kind are selected, it has been found that the point of equilibrium is different in
the two cases. For example, in the reactions represented by the equations

    3Fe + 4H{2}O <--> Fe{3}O{4} + 8H,

    Zn + H{2}O <--> ZnO + 2H,

the equilibrium will be reached when very different quantities of the iron and zinc have been
changed into oxides. The individual chemical properties of the iron and zinc have therefore
marked influence upon the point at which equilibrium will be reached.

2. Influence of relative mass. If the tube in which the reaction

    3Fe + 4H{2}O <--> Fe{3}O{4} + 8H

has come to an equilibrium is opened and more steam is admitted, an additional quantity of
the iron will be changed into iron oxide. If more hydrogen is admitted, some of the oxide will
be reduced to metal. The point of equilibrium is therefore dependent upon the relative masses
of the substances taking part in the reaction. When one of the substances is a solid, however,
its mass has little influence, since it is only the extent of its surface which can affect
the reaction.

~Conditions under which reversible reactions are complete.~ If, when the equilibrium between
iron and steam has been reached, the tube is opened and a current of steam is passed in, the
hydrogen is swept away as fast as it is formed. The opposing reaction of hydrogen upon iron
oxide must therefore cease, and the action of steam on the iron will go on until all of the
iron has been transformed into iron oxide.

On the other hand, if a current of hydrogen is admitted into the tube, the steam will be swept
away by the hydrogen, and all of the iron oxide will be reduced to iron. A reversible reaction
can therefore be completed in either direction when one of the products of the reaction is
removed as fast as it is formed.

~Equilibrium in solution.~ When reactions take place in solution in water the same general
principles hold good. The matter is not so simple, however, as in the case just described,
owing to the fact that many of the reactions in solution are due to the presence of ions. The
substances most commonly employed in solution are acids, bases, or salts, and all of these
undergo dissociation. Any equilibrium which may be reached in solutions of these substances
must take place between the various ions formed, on the one hand, and the undissociated molecules,
on the other. Thus, when nitric acid is dissolved in water, equilibrium is reached in accordance
with the equation

    H^{+} + NO{3}^{-} <--> HNO{3}.

~Conditions under which reversible reactions in solution are complete.~ The equilibrium between
substances in solution may be disturbed and the reaction caused to go on in one direction to
completion in either of three ways.

1. A gas may be formed which escapes from the solution. When sodium nitrate and sulphuric acid
are brought together in solution all four ions, Na^{+}, NO{3}^{-}, H^{+}, SO{4}^{--}, are formed.
These ions are free to rearrange themselves in various combinations. For example, the H^{+}
and the NO{3}^{-} ions will reach the equilibrium

    H^{+} + NO{3}^{-} <--> HNO{3}.

If the experiment is performed with very little water present, as is the case in the preparation
of nitric acid, the equilibrium will be reached when most of the H^{+} and the NO{3}^{-} ions
have combined to form undissociated HNO{3}.

Finally, if the mixture is now heated above the boiling point of nitric acid, the acid distills
away as fast as it is formed. More and more H^{+} and NO{3}^{-} ions will then combine, and
the process will continue until one or the other of them has all been removed from the solution.

2. An insoluble solid may be formed. When hydrochloric acid (HCl) and silver nitrate (AgNO{3})
are brought together in solution the following ions will be present: H^{+}, Cl^{-}, Ag^{+},
NO{3}^{-}. The ions Ag^{+} and Cl^{-} will then set up the equilibrium

    Ag^{+} + Cl^{-} <--> AgCl.

But silver chloride (AgCl) is almost completely insoluble in water, and as soon as a very little
of it has formed the solution becomes supersaturated, and the excess of the salt precipitates.
More silver and chlorine ions then unite, and this continues until practically all of the silver
or the chlorine ions have been removed from the solution. We then say that the following reaction
is complete:

    AgNO{3} + HCl = AgCl + HNO{3}.

3. Two different ions may form undissociated molecules. In the neutralization of sodium hydroxide
by hydrochloric acid the ions H^{+} and OH^{-} come to the equilibrium

    H^{+} + OH^{-} <--> H{2}O.

But since water is almost entirely undissociated, equilibrium can only be reached when there
are very few hydroxyl or hydrogen ions present. Consequently the two ions keep uniting until
one or the other of them is practically removed from the solution. When this occurs the neutralization
expressed in the following equation is complete:

    NaOH + HCl = H{2}O + NaCl.

~Preparation of acids.~ The principle of reversible reactions finds practical application in
the preparation of most of the common acids. An acid is usually prepared by treating the most
common of its salts with some other acid of high boiling point. The mixture is then heated
until the lower boiling acid desired distills out. Owing to its high boiling point (338°),
sulphuric acid is usually employed for this purpose, most other acids boiling below that temperature.

EXERCISES

1. What would take place when solutions of silver nitrate and sodium chloride are brought together?
What other chlorides would act in the same way?

2. Is the reaction expressed by the equation NH{3} + H{2}O = NH{4}OH reversible? If so, state
the conditions under which it will go in each direction.

3. Is the reaction expressed by the equation 2H + O = H{2}O reversible? If so, state the conditions
under which it will go in each direction.

4. Suggest a method for the preparation of hydrochloric acid.

CHAPTER XIV

SULPHUR AND ITS COMPOUNDS

~Occurrence.~ The element sulphur has been known from the earliest times, since it is widely
distributed in nature and occurs in large quantities in the uncombined form, especially in
the neighborhood of volcanoes. Sicily has long been famous for its sulphur mines, and smaller
deposits are found in Italy, Iceland, Mexico, and especially in Louisiana, where it is mined
extensively. In combination, sulphur occurs abundantly in the form of sulphides and sulphates.
In smaller amounts it is found in a great variety of minerals, and it is a constituent of many
animal and vegetable substances.

~Extraction of sulphur.~ Sulphur is prepared from the native substance, the separation of crude
sulphur from the rock and earthy materials with which it is mixed being a very simple process.
The ore from the mines is merely heated until the sulphur melts and drains away from the earthy
impurities. The crude sulphur obtained in this way is distilled in a retort-shaped vessel made
of iron, the exit tube of which opens into a cooling chamber of brickwork. When the sulphur
vapor first enters the cooling chamber it condenses as a fine crystalline powder called flowers
of sulphur. As the condensing chamber becomes warm, the sulphur collects as a liquid in it,
and is drawn off into cylindrical molds, the product being called roll sulphur or brimstone.

~Physical properties.~ Roll sulphur is a pale yellow, crystalline solid, without marked taste
and with but a faint odor. It is insoluble in water, but is freely soluble in a few liquids,
notably in carbon disulphide. Roll sulphur melts at 114.8°. Just above the melting point it
forms a rather thin, straw-colored liquid. As the temperature is raised, this liquid turns
darker in color and becomes thicker, until at about 235° it is almost black and is so thick
that the vessel containing it can be inverted without danger of the liquid running out. At
higher temperatures it becomes thin once more, and boils at 448°, forming a yellowish vapor.
On cooling the same changes take place in reverse order.

~Varieties of sulphur.~ Sulphur is known in two general forms, crystalline and amorphous. Each
of these forms exists in definite modifications.

~Crystalline sulphur.~ Sulphur occurs in two crystalline forms, namely, rhombic sulphur and
monoclinic sulphur.

1. Rhombic sulphur. When sulphur crystallizes from its solution in carbon disulphide it separates
in crystals which have the same color and melting point as roll sulphur, and are rhombic in
shape. Roll sulphur is made up of minute rhombic crystals.

2. Monoclinic sulphur. When melted sulphur is allowed to cool until a part of the liquid has
solidified, and the remaining liquid is then poured off, it is found that the solid sulphur
remaining in the vessel has assumed the form of fine needle-shaped crystals. These differ much
in appearance from the rhombic crystals obtained by crystallizing sulphur from its solution
in carbon disulphide. The needle-shaped form is called monoclinic sulphur. The two varieties
differ also in density and in melting point, the monoclinic sulphur melting at 120°.

Monoclinic and rhombic sulphur remain unchanged in contact with each other at 96°. Above this
temperature the rhombic changes into monoclinic; at lower temperatures the monoclinic changes
into rhombic. The temperature 96° is therefore called the transition point of sulphur. Heat
is set free when monoclinic sulphur changes into rhombic.

~Amorphous sulphur.~ Two varieties of amorphous sulphur can be readily obtained. These are
white sulphur and plastic sulphur.

1. White sulphur. Flowers of sulphur, the preparation of which has been described, consists
of a mixture of rhombic crystals and amorphous particles. When treated with carbon disulphide,
the crystals dissolve, leaving the amorphous particles as a white residue.

2. Plastic sulphur. When boiling sulphur is poured into cold water it assumes a gummy, doughlike
form, which is quite elastic. This can be seen in a very striking manner by distilling sulphur
from a small, short-necked retort, such as is represented in Fig. 40, and allowing the liquid
to run directly into water. In a few days it becomes quite brittle and passes over into ordinary
rhombic sulphur.

~Chemical properties of sulphur.~ When sulphur is heated to its kindling temperature in oxygen
or in the air it burns with a pale blue flame, forming sulphur dioxide (SO{2}). Small quantities
of sulphur trioxide (SO{3}) may also be formed in the combustion of sulphur. Most metals when
heated with sulphur combine directly with it, forming metallic sulphides. In some cases the
action is so energetic that the mass becomes incandescent, as has been seen in the case of
iron uniting with sulphur. This property recalls the action of oxygen upon metals, and in general
the metals which combine readily with oxygen are apt to combine quite readily with sulphur.

~Uses of sulphur.~ Large quantities of sulphur are used as a germicide in vineyards, also in
the manufacture of gunpowder, matches, vulcanized rubber, and sulphuric acid.

COMPOUNDS OF SULPHUR WITH HYDROGEN

~Hydrosulphuric acid~ (H{2}S). This substance is a gas having the composition expressed by
the formula H{2}S and is commonly called hydrogen sulphide. It is found in the vapors issuing
from volcanoes, and in solution in the so-called sulphur waters of many springs. It is formed
when organic matter containing sulphur undergoes decay, just as ammonia is formed under similar
circumstances from nitrogenous matter.

~Preparation.~ Hydrosulphuric acid is prepared in the laboratory by treating a sulphide with
an acid. Iron sulphide (FeS) is usually employed:

    FeS + 2HCl = FeCl{2} + H{2}S.

A convenient apparatus is shown in Fig. 41. A few lumps of iron sulphide are placed in the
bottle A, and dilute acid is added in small quantities at a time through the funnel tube B,
the gas escaping through the tube C.

     ~Explanation of the reaction.~ Iron sulphide is a salt of
     hydrosulphuric acid, and this reaction is therefore similar to
     the one which takes place when sulphuric acid acts upon a
     nitrate. In both cases a salt and an acid are brought together,
     and there is a tendency for the reaction to go on until a state
     of equilibrium is reached. This equilibrium is constantly
     disturbed by the escape of the gaseous acid set free, so that
     the reaction goes on until all of the original salt has been
     decomposed. The two reactions differ in that the first one is
     complete at ordinary temperatures, while in the case of
     sulphuric acid acting upon sodium nitrate, the reacting
     substances must be heated so as to secure a temperature at
     which nitric acid is a gas.

~Physical properties.~ Hydrosulphuric acid is a colorless gas, having a weak, disagreeable
taste and an exceedingly offensive odor. It is rather sparingly soluble in water at ordinary
temperatures, about three volumes dissolving in one of water. In boiling water it is not soluble
at all. In pure form it acts as a violent poison, and even when diluted largely with air produces
headache, dizziness, and nausea. It is a little heavier than air, having a density of 1.18.

~Chemical properties.~ The most important chemical properties of hydrosulphuric acid are the
following:

1. Acid properties. Hydrosulphuric acid is a weak acid. In solution in water it turns blue
litmus red and neutralizes bases, forming salts called sulphides.

2. Action on oxygen. The elements composing hydrosulphuric acid have each a strong affinity
for oxygen, and are not held together very firmly. Consequently the gas burns readily in oxygen
or the air, according to the equation

    H{2}S + 3O = H{2}O + SO{2}.

When there is not enough oxygen for both the sulphur and the hydrogen, the latter element combines
with the oxygen and the sulphur is set free:

    H{2}S + O = H{2}O + S.

3. Reducing action. Owing to the ease with which hydrosulphuric acid decomposes and the strong
affinity of both sulphur and hydrogen for oxygen, the substance is a strong reducing agent,
taking oxygen away from many substances which contain it.

4. Action on metals. Hydrosulphuric acid acts towards metals in a way very similar to water.

~Salts of hydrosulphuric acid,--sulphides.~ The salts of hydrosulphuric acid, called sulphides,
form an important class of salts. Many of them are found abundantly in nature, and some of
them are important ores. They will be frequently mentioned in connection with the metals.

Most of the sulphides are insoluble in water, and some of them are insoluble in acids. Consequently,
when hydrosulphuric acid is passed into a solution of a salt, it often happens that a sulphide
is precipitated. With copper chloride the equation is

    CuCl{2} + H{2}S = CuS + 2HCl.

Because of the fact that some metals are precipitated in this way as sulphides while others
are not, hydrosulphuric acid is extensively used in the separation of the metals in the laboratory.

     ~Explanation of the reaction.~ When hydrosulphuric acid and
     copper chloride are brought together in solution, both copper
     and sulphur ions are present, and these will come to an
     equilibrium, as represented in the equation

         Cu^{+} + S^{-} <--> CuS.

     Since copper sulphide is almost insoluble in water, as soon as
     a very small quantity has formed the solution becomes
     supersaturated, and the excess keeps precipitating until nearly
     all the copper or sulphur ions have been removed from the
     solution. With some other ions, such as iron, the sulphide
     formed does not saturate the solution, and no precipitate
     results.

OXIDES OF SULPHUR

Sulphur forms two well-known compounds with oxygen: sulphur dioxide (SO{2}), sometimes called
sulphurous anhydride; and sulphur trioxide (SO{3}), frequently called sulphuric anhydride.

~Sulphur dioxide~ (SO{2}). Sulphur dioxide occurs in nature in the gases issuing from volcanoes,
and in solution in the water of many springs. It is likely to be found wherever sulphur compounds
are undergoing oxidation.

~Preparation.~ Three general ways may be mentioned for the preparation of sulphur dioxide:

1. By the combustion of sulphur. Sulphur dioxide is readily formed by the combustion of sulphur
in oxygen or the air:

    S + 2O = SO{2}.

It is also formed when substances containing sulphur are burned:

    ZnS + 3O = ZnO + SO{2}.

2. By the reduction of sulphuric acid. When concentrated sulphuric acid is heated with certain
metals, such as copper, part of the acid is changed into copper sulphate, and part is reduced
to sulphurous acid. The latter then decomposes into sulphur dioxide and water, the complete
equation being

    Cu + 2H{2}SO{4} = CuSO{4} + SO{2} + 2H{2}O.

3. By the action of an acid on a sulphite. Sulphites are salts of sulphurous acid (H{2}SO{3}).
When a sulphite is treated with an acid, sulphurous acid is set free, and being very unstable,
decomposes into water and sulphur dioxide. These reactions are expressed in the equations

    Na{2}SO{3} + 2HCl = 2NaCl + H{2}SO{3},

    H{2}SO{3} = H{2}O + SO{2}.

~Explanation of the reaction.~ In this case we have two reversible reactions depending on each
other. In the first reaction,

    (1) Na{2}SO{3} + 2HCl <--> 2NaCl + H{2}SO{3},

we should expect an equilibrium to result, for none of the four substances in the equation
are insoluble or volatile when water is present to hold them in solution. But the quantity
of the H{2}SO{3} is constantly diminishing, owing to the fact that it decomposes, as represented
in the equation

    (2) H{2}SO{3} <--> H{2}O + SO{2},

and the sulphur dioxide, being a gas, escapes. No equilibrium can therefore result, since the
quantity of the sulphurous acid is constantly being diminished because of the escape of sulphur
dioxide.

~Physical properties.~ Sulphur dioxide is a colorless gas, which at ordinary temperatures is
2.2 times as heavy as air. It has a peculiar, irritating odor. The gas is very soluble in water,
one volume of water dissolving eighty of the gas under standard conditions. It is easily condensed
to a colorless liquid, and can be purchased in this condition stored in strong bottles, such
as the one represented in Fig. 42.

~Chemical properties.~ Sulphur dioxide has a marked tendency to combine with other substances,
and is therefore an active substance chemically. It combines with oxygen gas, but not very
easily. It can, however, take oxygen away from some other substances, and is therefore a good
reducing agent. Its most marked chemical property is its ability to combine with water to form
sulphurous acid (H{2}SO{3}).

~Sulphurous acid~ (H{2}SO{3}). When sulphur dioxide dissolves in water it combines chemically
with it to form sulphurous acid, an unstable substance having the formula H{3}SO{3}. It is
impossible to prepare this acid in pure form, as it breaks down very easily into water and
sulphur dioxide. The reaction is therefore reversible, and is expressed by the equation

    H{2}O + SO{2} <--> H{2}SO{3}.

Solutions of the acid in water have a number of interesting properties.

1. Acid properties. The solution has all the properties typical of an acid. When neutralized
by bases, sulphurous acid yields a series of salts called sulphites.

2. Reducing properties. Solutions of sulphurous acid act as good reducing agents. This is due
to the fact that sulphurous acid has the power of taking up oxygen from the air, or from substances
rich in oxygen, and is changed by this reaction into sulphuric acid:

    H{2}SO{3} + O = H{2}SO{4},

    H{2}SO{3} + H{2}O{2} = H{2}S0{4} + H{2}O.

3. Bleaching properties. Sulphurous acid has strong bleaching properties, acting upon many
colored substances in such a way as to destroy their color. It is on this account used to bleach
paper, straw goods, and even such foods as canned corn.

4. Antiseptic properties. Sulphurous acid has marked antiseptic properties, and on this account
has the power of arresting fermentation. It is therefore used as a preservative.

~Salts of sulphurous acid,--sulphites.~ The sulphites, like sulphurous acid, have the power
of taking up oxygen very readily, and are good reducing agents. On account of this tendency,
commercial sulphites are often contaminated with sulphates. A great deal of sodium sulphite
is used in the bleaching industry, and as a reagent for softening paper pulp.

~Sulphur trioxide~ (SO{3}). When sulphur dioxide and oxygen are heated together at a rather
high temperature, a small amount of sulphur trioxide (SO{3}) is formed, but the reaction is
slow and incomplete. If, however, the heating takes place in the presence of very fine platinum
dust, the reaction is rapid and nearly complete.

     ~ Experimental preparation of sulphur trioxide.~ The experiment
     can be performed by the use of the apparatus shown in Fig. 43,
     the fine platinum being secured by moistening asbestos fiber
     with a solution of platinum chloride and igniting it in a
     flame. The fiber, covered with fine platinum, is placed in a
     tube of hard glass, which is then heated with a burner to about
     350°, while sulphur dioxide and air are passed into the tube.
     Union takes place at once, and the strongly fuming sulphur
     trioxide escapes from the jet at the end of the tube, and may
     be condensed by surrounding the receiving tube with a freezing
     mixture.

~Properties of sulphur trioxide.~ Sulphur trioxide is a colorless liquid, which solidifies
at about 15° and boils at 46°. A trace of moisture causes it to solidify into a mass of silky
white crystals, somewhat resembling asbestos fiber in appearance. In contact with the air it
fumes strongly, and when thrown upon water it dissolves with a hissing sound and the liberation
of a great deal of heat. The product of this reaction is sulphuric acid, so that sulphur trioxide
is the anhydride of that acid:

    SO{3} + H{2}O = H{2}SO{4}.

~Catalysis.~ It has been found that many chemical reactions, such as the union of sulphur dioxide
with oxygen, are much influenced by the presence of substances which do not themselves seem
to take a part in the reaction, and are left apparently unchanged after it has ceased. These
reactions go on very slowly under ordinary circumstances, but are greatly hastened by the presence
of the foreign substance. Substances which hasten very slow reactions in this way are said
to act as catalytic agents or catalyzers, and the action is called catalysis. Just how the
action is brought about is not well understood.

DEFINITION: A catalyzer is a substance which changes the velocity of a reaction, but does not
change its products.

~Examples of Catalysis.~ We have already had several instances of such action. Oxygen and hydrogen
combine with each other at ordinary temperatures in the presence of platinum powder, while
if no catalytic agent is present they do not combine in appreciable quantities until a rather
high temperature is reached. Potassium chlorate, when heated with manganese dioxide, gives
up its oxygen at a much lower temperature than when heated alone. Hydrogen dioxide decomposes
very rapidly when powdered manganese dioxide is sifted into its concentrated solution.

On the other hand, the catalytic agent sometimes retards chemical action. For example, a solution
of hydrogen dioxide decomposes more slowly when it contains a little phosphoric acid than when
perfectly pure. For this reason commercial hydrogen dioxide always contains phosphoric acid.

Many reactions are brought about by the catalytic action of traces of water. For example, phosphorus
will not burn in oxygen in the absence of all moisture. Hydrochloric acid will not unite with
ammonia if the reagents are perfectly dry. It is probable that many of the chemical transformations
in physiological processes, such as digestion, are assisted by certain substances acting as
catalytic agents. The principle of catalysis is therefore very important.

~Sulphuric acid~ (oil of vitriol) (H{2}SO{4}). Sulphuric acid is one of the most important
of all manufactured chemicals. Not only is it one of the most common reagents in the laboratory,
but enormous quantities of it are used in many of the industries, especially in the refining
of petroleum, the manufacture of nitroglycerin, sodium carbonate, and fertilizers.

~Manufacture of sulphuric acid.~ 1. Contact process. The reactions taking place in this process
are represented by the following equations:

    SO{2} + O = SO{3},

    SO{3} + H{2}O = H{2}SO{4}.

To bring about the first of these reactions rapidly, a catalyzer is employed, and the process
is carried out in the following way: Large iron tubes are packed with some porous material,
such as calcium and magnesium sulphates, which contains a suitable catalytic substance scattered
through it. The catalyzers most used are platinum powder, vanadium oxide, and iron oxide. Purified
sulphur dioxide and air are passed through the tubes, which are kept at a temperature of about
350°. Sulphur trioxide is formed, and as it issues from the tube it is absorbed in water or
dilute sulphuric acid. The process is continued until all the water in the absorbing vessel
has been changed into sulphuric acid, so that a very concentrated acid is made in this way.
An excess of the trioxide may dissolve in the strong sulphuric acid, forming what is known
as fuming sulphuric acid.

2. Chamber process. The method of manufacture exclusively employed until recent years, and
still in very extensive use, is much more complicated. The reactions are quite involved, but
the conversion of water, sulphur dioxide, and oxygen into sulphuric acid is accomplished by
the catalytic action of oxides of nitrogen. The reactions are brought about in large lead-lined
chambers, into which oxides of nitrogen, sulphur dioxide, steam, and air are introduced in
suitable proportions.

     ~Reactions of the chamber process.~ In a very general way, the
     various reactions which take place in the lead chambers may be
     expressed in two equations. In the first reaction sulphur
     dioxide, nitrogen peroxide, steam, and oxygen unite, as shown
     in the equation

    (1) 2SO{2} + 2NO{2} + H{2}O + O = 2SO{2} (OH) (NO{2}).

     The product formed in this reaction is called nitrosulphuric
     acid or "chamber crystals." It actually separates on the walls
     of the chambers when the process is not working properly. Under
     normal conditions, it is decomposed as fast as it is formed by
     the action of excess of steam, as shown in the equation

    (2) 2SO{2} (OH) (NO{2}) + H{2}O + O = 2H{2}SO{4} + 2NO{2}.

     The nitrogen dioxide formed in this reaction can now enter into
     combination with a new quantity of sulphur dioxide, steam, and
     oxygen, and the series of reactions go on indefinitely. Many
     other reactions occur, but these two illustrate the principle
     of the process.

The relation between sulphuric acid and nitrosulphuric acid can be seen by comparing their
structural formulas:

    O=  -OH      O=  -OH
       S            S
    O=  -OH      O=  -NO{2}

The latter may be regarded as derived from the former by the substitution of the nitro group
(NO{2}) for the hydroxyl group (OH).

~The sulphuric acid plant.~ Fig. 44 illustrates the simpler parts of a plant used in the manufacture
of sulphuric acid by the chamber process. Sulphur or some sulphide, as FeS{2}, is burned in
furnace A. The resulting sulphur dioxide, together with air and some nitrogen peroxide, are
conducted into the large chambers, the capacity of each chamber being about 75,000 cu. ft.
Steam is also admitted into these chambers at different points. These compounds react to form
sulphuric acid, according to the equations given above. The nitrogen left after the withdrawal
of the oxygen from the admitted air escapes through the Gay-Lussac tower X. In order to prevent
the escape of the oxides of nitrogen regenerated in the reaction, the tower is filled with
lumps of coke, over which trickles concentrated sulphuric acid admitted from Y. The nitrogen
peroxide dissolves in the acid and the resulting solution collects in H. This is pumped into
E, where it is mixed with dilute acid and allowed to trickle down through the chamber D (Glover
tower), which is filled with some acid-resisting rock. Here the nitrogen peroxide is expelled
from the solution by the action of the hot gases entering from A, and together with them enters
the first chamber again. The acid from which the nitrogen peroxide is expelled collects in
F. Theoretically, a small amount of nitrogen peroxide would suffice to prepare an unlimited
amount of sulphuric acid; practically, some of it escapes, and this is replaced by small amounts
admitted at B.

The sulphuric acid so formed, together with the excess of condensed steam, collect upon the
floor of the chambers in the form of a liquid containing from 62% to 70% of sulphuric acid.
The product is called chamber acid and is quite impure; but for many purposes, such as the
manufacture of fertilizers, it needs no further treatment. It can be concentrated by boiling
it in vessels made of iron or platinum, which resist the action of the acid, nearly all the
water boiling off. Pure concentrated acid can be made best by the contact process, while the
chamber process is cheaper for the dilute impure acid.

~Physical properties.~ Sulphuric acid is a colorless, oily liquid, nearly twice as heavy as
water. The ordinary concentrated acid contains about 2% of water, has a density of 1.84, and
boils at 338°. It is sometimes called oil of vitriol, since it was formerly made by distilling
a substance called green vitriol.

~Chemical properties.~ Sulphuric acid possesses chemical properties which make it one of the
most important of chemical substances.

1. Action as an acid. In dilute solution sulphuric acid acts as any other acid, forming salts
with oxides and hydroxides.

2. Action as an oxidizing agent. Sulphuric acid contains a large percentage of oxygen and is,
like nitric acid, a very good oxidizing agent. When the concentrated acid is heated with sulphur,
carbon, and many other substances, oxidation takes place, the sulphuric acid decomposing according
to the equation

    H{2}SO{4} = H{2}SO{3} + O.

3. Action on metals. In dilute solution sulphuric acid acts upon many metals, such as zinc,
forming a sulphate and liberating hydrogen. When the concentrated acid is employed the hydrogen
set free is oxidized by a new portion of the acid, with the liberation of sulphur dioxide.
With copper the reactions are expressed by the equations

    (1) Cu + H{2}SO{4} = CuSO{4} + 2H,

    (2) H{2}SO{4} + 2H = H{2}SO{3} + H{2}O,

    (3) H{2}SO{3} = H{2}O + SO{2}. Action on salts. We have repeatedly seen that an acid of high
boiling point heated with the salt of some acid of lower boiling point
will drive out the low boiling acid. The boiling point of sulphuric acid
(338°) is higher than that of almost any common acid; hence it is used
largely in the preparation of other acids.

5. Action on water. Concentrated sulphuric acid has a very great affinity for water, and is
therefore an effective dehydrating agent. Gases which have no chemical action upon sulphuric
acid can be freed from water vapor by bubbling them through the strong acid. When the acid
is diluted with water much heat is set free, and care must be taken to keep the liquid thoroughly
stirred during the mixing, and to pour the acid into the water,--never the reverse.

Not only can sulphuric acid absorb water, but it will often withdraw the elements hydrogen
and oxygen from a compound containing them, decomposing the compound, and combining with the
water so formed. For this reason most organic substances, such as sugar, wood, cotton, and
woolen fiber, and even flesh, all of which contain much oxygen and hydrogen in addition to
carbon, are charred or burned by the action of the concentrated acid.

~Salts of sulphuric acid,--sulphates.~ The sulphates form a very important class of salts,
and many of them have commercial uses. Copperas (iron sulphate), blue vitriol (copper sulphate),
and Epsom salt (magnesium sulphate) serve as examples. Many sulphates are important minerals,
prominent among these being gypsum (calcium sulphate) and barytes (barium sulphate).

     ~Thiosulphuric acid~ (H{2}S{2}O{3}); ~Thiosulphates.~ Many other
     acids of sulphur containing oxygen are known, but none of them
     are of great importance. Most of them cannot be prepared in a
     pure state, and are known only through their salts. The most
     important of these is thiosulphuric acid.

     When sodium sulphite is boiled with sulphur the two substances
     combine, forming a salt which has the composition represented
     in the formula Na{2}S{2}O{3}:

     Na{2}SO{3} + S = Na{2}S{2}O{3}.

     The substance is called sodium thiosulphate, and is a salt of
     the easily decomposed acid H{2}S{2}O{3}, called
     thiosulphuric acid. This reaction is quite similar to the
     action of oxygen upon sulphites:

     Na{2}SO{3} + O = Na{2}SO{4}.

     More commonly the salt is called sodium hyposulphite, or merely
     "hypo." It is a white solid and is extensively used in
     photography, in the bleaching industry, and as a disinfectant.

~Monobasic and dibasic acids.~ Such acids as hydrochloric and nitric acids, which have only
one replaceable hydrogen atom in the molecule, or in other words yield one hydrogen ion in
solution, are called monobasic acids. Acids yielding two hydrogen ions in solution are called
dibasic acids. Similarly, we may have tribasic and tetrabasic acids. The three acids of sulphur
are dibasic acids. It is therefore possible for each of them to form both normal and acid salts.
The acid salts can be made in two ways: the acid may be treated with only half enough base
to neutralize it,--

    NaOH + H{2}SO{4} = NaHSO{4} + H{2}O;

or a normal salt may be treated with the free acid,--

    Na{2}SO{4} + H{2}SO{4} = 2NaHSO{4}.

Acid sulphites and sulphides may be made in the same ways.

~Carbon disulphide~ (CS{2}). When sulphur vapor is passed over highly heated carbon the two
elements combine, forming carbon disulphide (CS{2}), just as oxygen and carbon unite to form
carbon dioxide (CO{2}). The substance is a heavy, colorless liquid, possessing, when pure,
a pleasant ethereal odor. On standing for some time, especially when exposed to sunlight, it
undergoes a slight decomposition and acquires a most disagreeable, rancid odor. It has the
property of dissolving many substances, such as gums, resins, and waxes, which are insoluble
in most liquids, and it is extensively used as a solvent for such substances. It is also used
as an insecticide. It boils at a low temperature (46°), and its vapor is very inflammable,
burning in the air to form carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide, according to the equation

    CS{2} + 6O = CO{2} + 2SO{2}.

     ~Commercial preparation of carbon disulphide.~ In the preparation
     of carbon disulphide an electrical furnace is employed, such as
     is represented in Fig. 45. The furnace is packed with carbon
     C, and this is fed in through the hoppers B, as fast as
     that which is present in the hearth of the furnace is used up.
     Sulphur is introduced at A, and at the lower ends of the
     tubes it is melted by the heat of the furnace and flows into
     the hearth as a liquid. An electrical current is passed through
     the carbon and melted sulphur from the electrodes E, heating
     the charge. The vapors of carbon disulphide pass up through the
     furnace and escape at D, from which they pass to a suitable
     condensing apparatus.

~Comparison of sulphur and oxygen.~ A comparison of the formulas and the chemical properties
of corresponding compounds of oxygen and sulphur brings to light many striking similarities.
The conduct of hydrosulphuric acid and water toward many substances has been seen to be very
similar; the oxides and sulphides of the metals have analogous formulas and undergo many parallel
reactions. Carbon dioxide and disulphide are prepared in similar ways and undergo many analogous
reactions. It is clear, therefore, that these two elements are far more closely related to
each other than to any of the other elements so far studied.

~Selenium and tellurium.~ These two very uncommon elements are still more closely related to
sulphur than is oxygen. They occur in comparatively small quantities and are usually found
associated with sulphur and sulphides, either as the free elements or more commonly in combination
with metals. They form compounds with hydrogen of the formulas H{2}Se and H{2}Te; these bodies
are gases with properties very similar to those of H{2}S. They also form oxides and oxygen
acids which resemble the corresponding sulphur compounds. The elements even have allotropic
forms corresponding very closely to those of sulphur. Tellurium is sometimes found in combination
with gold and copper, and occasions some difficulties in the refining of these metals. The
elements have very few practical applications.

~Crystallography.~ In order to understand the difference between the two kinds of sulphur crystals,
it is necessary to know something about crystals in general and the forms which they may assume.
An examination of a large number of crystals has shown that although they may differ much in
geometric form, they can all be considered as modifications of a few simple plans. The best
way to understand the relation of one crystal to another is to look upon every crystal as having
its faces and angles arranged in definite fashion about certain imaginary lines drawn through
the crystal. These lines are called axes, and bear much the same relation to a crystal as do
the axis and parallels of latitude and longitude to the earth and a geographical study of it.
All crystals can be referred to one of six simple plans or systems, which have their axes as
shown in the following drawings.

The names and characteristics of these systems are as follows:

1. Isometric or regular system (Fig. 46). Three equal axes, all at right angles.

2. Tetragonal system (Fig. 47). Two equal axes and one of different length, all at right angles
to each other.

3. Orthorhombic system (Fig. 48). Three unequal axes, all at right angles to each other.

4. Monoclinic system (Fig. 49). Two axes at right angles, and a third at right angles to one
of these, but inclined to the other.

5. Triclinic system (Fig. 50). Three axes, all inclined to each other.

6. Hexagonal system (Fig. 51). Three equal axes in the same plane intersecting at angles of
60°, and a fourth at right angles to all of these.

Every crystal can be imagined to have its faces and angles arranged in a definite way around
one of these systems of axes. A cube, for instance, is referred to Plan 1, an axis ending in
the center of each face; while in a regular octohedron an axis ends in each solid angle. These
forms are shown in Fig. 46. It will be seen that both of these figures belong to the same system,
though they are very different in appearance. In the same way, many geometric forms may be
derived from each of the systems, and the light lines about the axes in the drawings show two
of the simplest forms of each of the systems.

In general a given substance always crystallizes in the same system, and two corresponding
faces of each crystal of it always make the same angle with each other. A few substances, of
which sulphur is an example, crystallize in two different systems, and the crystals differ
in such physical properties as melting point and density. Such substances are said to be dimorphous.

EXERCISES

1. (a) Would the same amount of heat be generated by the combustion of 1 g. of each of the
allotropic modifications of sulphur? (b) Would the same amount of sulphur dioxide be formed
in each case?

2. Is the equation for the preparation of hydrosulphuric acid a reversible one? As ordinarily
carried out, does the reaction complete itself?

3. Suppose that hydrosulphuric acid were a liquid, would it be necessary to modify the method
of preparation?

4. Can sulphuric acid be used to dry hydrosulphuric acid? Give reason for answer.

5. Does dry hydrosulphuric acid react with litmus paper? State reason for answer.

6. How many grams of iron sulphide are necessary to prepare 100 l. of hydrosulphuric acid when
the laboratory conditions are 17° and 740 mm. pressure?

7. Suppose that the hydrogen in 1 l. of hydrosulphuric acid were liberated; what volume would
it occupy, the gases being measured under the same conditions?

8. Write the equations representing the reaction between hydrosulphuric acid and sodium hydroxide
and ammonium hydroxide respectively.

9. Show that the preparation of sulphur dioxide from a sulphite is similar in principle to
the preparation of hydrogen sulphide.

10. (a) Does dry sulphur dioxide react with litmus paper? (b) How can it be shown that a solution
of sulphur dioxide in water acts like an acid?

11. (a) Calculate the percentage composition of sulphurous anhydride and sulphuric anhydride.
(b) Show how these two substances are in harmony with the law of multiple proportion.

12. How many pounds of sulphur would be necessary in the preparation of 100 lb. of 98% sulphuric
acid?

13. What weight of sulphur dioxide is necessary in the preparation of 1 kg. of sodium sulphite?

14. What weight of copper sulphate crystals can be obtained by dissolving 1 kg. of copper in
sulphuric acid and crystallizing the product from water?

15. Write the names and formulas of the oxides and oxygen acids of selenium and tellurium.

16. In the commercial preparation of carbon disulphide, what is the function of the electric
current?

17. If the Gay-Lussac tower were omitted from the sulphuric acid factory, what effect would
this have on the cost of production of sulphuric acid?

CHAPTER XV

PERIODIC LAW

A number of the elements have now been studied somewhat closely. The first three of these,
oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, while having some physical properties in common with each other,
have almost no point of similarity as regards their chemical conduct. On the other hand, oxygen
and sulphur, while quite different physically, have much in common in their chemical properties.

About eighty elements are now known. If all of these should have properties as diverse as do
oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, the study of chemistry would plainly be a very difficult and
complicated one. If, however, the elements can be classified in groups, the members of which
have very similar properties, the study will be very much simplified.

~Earlier classification of the elements.~ Even at an early period efforts were made to discover
some natural principle in accordance with which the elements could be classified. Two of these
classifications may be mentioned here.

1. Classification into metals and non-metals. The classification into metals and non-metals
most naturally suggested itself. This grouping was based largely on physical properties, the
metals being heavy, lustrous, malleable, ductile, and good conductors of heat and electricity.
Elements possessing these properties are usually base-forming in character, and the ability
to form bases came to be regarded as a characteristic property of the metals. The non-metals
possessed physical properties which were the reverse of those of the metals, and were acid-forming
in character.

Not much was gained by this classification, and it was very imperfect. Some metals, such as
potassium, are very light; some non-metals, such as iodine, have a high luster; some elements
can form either an acid or a base.

2. Classification into triad families. In 1825 Döbereiner observed that an interesting relation
exists between the atomic weights of chemically similar elements. To illustrate, lithium, sodium,
and potassium resemble each other very closely, and the atomic weight of sodium is almost exactly
an arithmetical mean between those of the other two: (7.03 + 39.15)/2 = 23.09. In many chemical
and physical properties sodium is midway between the other two.

A number of triad families were found, but among eighty elements, whose atomic weights range
all the way from 1 to 240, such agreements might be mere chance. Moreover many elements did
not appear to belong to such families.

~Periodic division.~ In 1869 the Russian chemist Mendeléeff devised an arrangement of the elements
based on their atomic weights, which has proved to be of great service in the comparative study
of the elements. A few months later the German, Lothar Meyer, independently suggested the same
ideas. This arrangement brought to light a great generalization, now known as the periodic
law. An exact statement of the law will be given after the method of arranging the elements
has been described.

~Arrangement of the periodic table.~ The arrangement suggested by Mendeléeff, modified somewhat
by more recent investigations, is as follows: Beginning with lithium, which has an atomic weight
of 7, the elements are arranged in a horizontal row in the order of their atomic weights, thus:

~Li (7.03), Be (9.1), B (11), C (12), N (14.04), O (16), F (19).~

These seven elements all differ markedly from each other. The eighth element, sodium, is very
similar to lithium. It is placed just under lithium, and a new row follows:

~Na(23.05), Mg (24.36), Al (27.1), Si (28.4), P (31), S (32.06), Cl(35.45).~

When the fifteenth element, potassium, is reached, it is placed under sodium, to which it is
very similar, and serves to begin a third row:

~K (39.15), Ca (40.1), Sc (44.1,) Ti (48.1), V (51.2), Cr (52.1), Mn(55).~

Not only is there a strong similarity between lithium, sodium, and potassium, which have been
placed in a vertical row because of this resemblance, but the elements in the other vertical
rows exhibit much of the same kind of similarity among themselves, and evidently form little
natural groups.

The three elements following manganese, namely, iron, nickel, and cobalt, have atomic weights
near together, and are very similar chemically. They do not strongly resemble any of the elements
so far considered, and are accordingly placed in a group by themselves, following manganese.
A new row is begun with copper, which somewhat resembles the elements of the first vertical
column. Following the fifth and seventh rows are groups of three closely related elements,
so that the completed arrangement has the appearance represented in the table on page 168.
When the other inactive elements were found, however, it became apparent that they form a group
just preceding Group 1. They are accordingly arranged in this way in Group 0 (see table on
opposite page). A study of this table brings to light certain very striking facts.

~Properties of elements vary with atomic weights.~ There is evidently a close relation between
the properties of an element and its atomic weight. Lithium, at the beginning of the first
group, is a very strong base-forming element, with pronounced metallic properties. Beryllium,
following lithium, is less strongly base-forming, while boron has some base-forming and some
acid-forming properties. In carbon all base-forming properties have disappeared, and the acid-forming
properties are more marked than in boron. These become still more emphasized as we pass through
nitrogen and oxygen, until on reaching fluorine we have one of the strongest acid-forming elements.
The properties of these seven elements therefore vary regularly with their atomic weights,
or, in mathematical language, are regular functions of them.

~Periodic law.~ The properties of the first seven elements vary continuously--that is steadily--away
from base-forming and toward acid-forming properties. If lithium had the smallest atomic weight
of any of the elements, and fluorine the greatest, so that in passing from one to the other
we had included all the elements, we could say that the properties of elements are continuous
functions of their atomic weights. But fluorine is an element of small atomic weight, and the
one following it, sodium, breaks the regular order, for in it reappear all the characteristic
properties of lithium. Magnesium, following sodium, bears much the same relation to beryllium
that sodium does to lithium, and the properties of the elements in the second row vary much
as they do in the first row until potassium is reached, when another repetition begins. The
properties of the elements do not vary continuously, therefore, with atomic weights, but at
regular intervals there is a repetition, or period. This generalization is known as the periodic
law, and may be stated thus: The properties of elements are periodic functions of their atomic
weights.

~The two families in a group.~ While all the elements in a given vertical column bear a general
resemblance to each other, it has been noticed that those belonging to periods having even
numbers are very strikingly similar to each other. They are placed at the left side of the
group columns. In like manner, the elements belonging to the odd periods are very similar and
are arranged at the right side of the group columns. Thus calcium, strontium, and barium are
very much alike; so, too, are magnesium, zinc, and cadmium. The resemblance between calcium
and magnesium, or strontium and zinc, is much less marked. This method of arrangement therefore
divides each group into two families, each containing four or five members, between which there
is a great similarity.

~Family resemblances.~ Let us now inquire more closely in what respects the elements of a family
resemble each other.

1. Valence. In general the valence of the elements in a family is the same, and the formulas
of their compounds are therefore similar. If we know that the formula of sodium chloride is
NaCl, it is pretty certain that the formula of potassium chloride will be KCl--not KCl{2} or
KCl{3}. The general formulas R{2}O, RO, etc., placed below the columns show the formulas of
the oxides of the elements in the column provided they form oxides. In like manner the formulas
RH, RH{2}, etc., show the composition of the compounds formed with hydrogen or chlorine.

2. Chemical properties. The chemical properties of the members of a family are quite similar.
If one member is a metal, the others usually are; if one is a non-metal, so, too, are the others.
The families in the first two columns consist of metals, while the elements found in the last
two columns form acids. There is in addition a certain regularity in properties of the elements
in each family. If the element at the head of the family is a strong acid-forming element,
this property is likely to diminish gradually, as we pass to the members of the family with
higher atomic weights. Thus phosphorus is strongly acid-forming, arsenic less so, antimony
still less so, while bismuth has almost no acid-forming properties. We shall meet with many
illustrations of this fact.

3. Physical properties. In the same way, the physical properties of the members of a family
are in general somewhat similar, and show a regular gradation as we pass from element to element
in the family. Thus the densities of the members of the magnesium family are

    Mg = 1.75, Zn = 7.00, Cd = 8.67, Hg = 13.6.

Their melting points are

    Mg = 750°, Zn = 420°, Cd = 320°, Hg = -39.5°.

~Value of the periodic law.~ The periodic law has proved of much value in the development of
the science of chemistry.

1. It simplifies study. It is at once evident that such regularities very much simplify the
study of chemistry. A thorough study of one element of a family makes the study of the other
members a much easier task, since so many of the properties and chemical reactions of the elements
are similar. Thus, having studied the element sulphur in some detail, it is not necessary to
study selenium and tellurium so closely, for most of their properties can be predicted from
the relation which they sustain to sulphur.

2. It predicts new elements. When the periodic law was first formulated there were a number
of vacant places in the table which evidently belonged to elements at that time unknown. From
their position in the table, Mendeléeff predicted with great precision the properties of the
elements which he felt sure would one day be discovered to fill these places. Three of them,
scandium, germanium, and gallium, were found within fifteen years, and their properties agreed
in a remarkable way with the predictions of Mendeléeff. There are still some vacant places
in the table, especially among the heavier elements.

3. It corrects errors. The physical constants of many of the elements did not at first agree
with those demanded by the periodic law, and a further study of many such cases showed that
errors had been made. The law has therefore done much service in indicating probable error.

~Imperfections of the law.~ There still remain a good many features which must be regarded
as imperfections in the law. Most conspicuous is the fact that the element hydrogen has no
place in the table. In some of the groups elements appear in one of the families, while all
of their properties show that they belong in the other. Thus sodium belongs with lithium and
not with copper; fluorine belongs with chlorine and not with manganese. There are two instances
where the elements must be transposed in order to make them fit into their proper group. According
to their atomic weights, tellurium should follow iodine, and argon should follow potassium.
Their properties show in each case that this order must be reversed. The table separates some
elements altogether which, in many respects have closely agreeing properties. Iron, chromium,
and manganese are all in different groups, although they are similar in many respects.

The system is therefore to be regarded as but a partial and imperfect expression of some very
important and fundamental relation between the substances which we know as elements, the exact
nature of this relation being as yet not completely clear to us.

EXERCISES

1. Suppose that an element were discovered that filled the blank in Group O, Period 5; what
properties would it probably have?

2. Suppose that an element were discovered that filled the blank in Group VI, Period 9, family
B; what properties would it have?

3. Sulphur and oxygen both belong in Group VI, although in different families; in what respects
are the two similar?

CHAPTER XVI

THE CHLORINE FAMILY

==================================================================
              |        |         |         |
              | ATOMIC | MELTING | BOILING | COLOR AND STATE
              | WEIGHT |  POINT  |  POINT  |
||||
              |        |         |         |
Fluorine (F)  |  19.00 |   -223° |   -187° | Pale yellowish gas.
Chlorine (Cl) |  35.45 |   -102° |  -33.6° | Greenish-yellow gas.
Bromine (Br)  |  79.96 |     -7° |     59° | Red liquid.
Iodine (I)    | 126.97 |    107° |    175° | Purplish-black solid.
==================================================================

~The family.~ The four elements named in the above table form a strongly marked family of elements
and illustrate very clearly the way in which the members of a family in a periodic group resemble
each other, as well as the character of the differences which we may expect to find between
the individual members.

1. Occurrence. These elements do not occur in nature in the free state. The compounds of the
last three elements of the family are found extensively in sea water, and on this account the
name halogens, signifying "producers of sea salt," is sometimes applied to the family.

2. Properties. As will be seen by reference to the table, the melting points and boiling points
of the elements of the family increase with their atomic weights. A somewhat similar gradation
is noted in their color and state. One atom of each of the elements combines with one atom
of hydrogen to form acids, which are gases very soluble in water. The affinity of the elements
for hydrogen is in the inverse order of their atomic weights, fluorine having the strongest
affinity and iodine the weakest. Only chlorine and iodine form oxides, and those of the former
element are very unstable. The elements of the group are univalent in their compounds with
hydrogen and the metals.

FLUORINE

~Occurrence.~ The element fluorine occurs in nature most abundantly as the mineral fluorspar
(CaF{2}), as cryolite (Na{3}AlF{6}), and in the complex mineral apatite (3 Ca{3}(PO{4}){2}·CaF{2}).

~Preparation.~ All attempts to isolate the element resulted in failure until recent years.
Methods similar to those which succeed in the preparation of the other elements of the family
cannot be used; for as soon as the fluorine is liberated it combines with the materials of
which the apparatus is made or with the hydrogen of the water which is always present. The
preparation of fluorine was finally accomplished by the French chemist Moissan by the electrolysis
of hydrofluoric acid. Perfectly dry hydrofluoric acid (HF) was condensed to a liquid and placed
in a U-shaped tube made of platinum (or copper), which was furnished with electrodes and delivery
tubes, as shown in Fig. 52. This liquid is not an electrolyte, but becomes such when potassium
fluoride is dissolved in it. When this solution was electrolyzed hydrogen was set free at the
cathode and fluorine at the anode.

~Properties.~ Fluorine is a gas of slightly yellowish color, and can be condensed to a liquid
boiling at -187° under atmospheric pressure. It solidifies at -223°. It is extremely active
chemically, being the most active of all the elements at ordinary temperatures.

It combines with all the common elements save oxygen, very often with incandescence and the
liberation of much heat. It has a strong affinity for hydrogen and is able to withdraw it from
its compounds with other elements. Because of its great activity it is extremely poisonous.
Fluorine does not form any oxides, neither does it form any oxygen acids, in which respects
it differs from the other members of the family.

~Hydrofluoric acid~ (HF). Hydrofluoric acid is readily obtained from fluorspar by the action
of concentrated sulphuric acid. The equation is

    CaF{2} + H{2}SO{4} = CaSO{4} + 2HF.

In its physical properties it resembles the binary acids of the other elements of this family,
being, however, more easily condensed to a liquid. The anhydrous acid boils at 19° and can
therefore be prepared at ordinary pressures. It is soluble in all proportions in water, and
a concentrated solution--about 50%--is prepared for the market. Its fumes are exceedingly irritating
to the respiratory organs, and several chemists have lost their lives by accidentally breathing
them.

~Chemical properties.~ Hydrofluoric acid, like other strong acids, readily acts on bases and
metallic oxides and forms the corresponding fluorides. It also dissolves certain metals such
as silver and copper. It acts very vigorously upon organic matter, a single drop of the concentrated
acid making a sore on the skin which is very painful and slow in healing. Its most characteristic
property is its action upon silicon dioxide (SiO{2}), with which it forms water and the gas
silicon tetrafluoride (SiF{4}), as shown in the equation

    SiO{2} + 4HF = SiF{4} + 2H{2}O.

Glass consists of certain compounds of silicon, which are likewise acted on by the acid so
that it cannot be kept in glass bottles. It is preserved in flasks made of wax or gutta-percha.

     ~Etching.~ Advantage is taken of this reaction in etching designs
     upon glass. The glass vessel is painted over with a protective
     paint upon which the acid will not act, the parts which it is
     desired to make opaque being left unprotected. A mixture of
     fluorspar and sulphuric acid is then painted over the vessel
     and after a few minutes the vessel is washed clean. Wherever
     the hydrofluoric acid comes in contact with the glass it acts
     upon it, destroying its luster and making it opaque, so that
     the exposed design will be etched upon the clear glass. Frosted
     glass globes are often made in this way.

     The etching may also be effected by covering the glass with a
     thin layer of paraffin, cutting the design through the wax and
     then exposing the glass to the fumes of the acid.

~Salts of hydrofluoric acid,--fluorides.~ A number of the fluorides are known, but only one
of them, calcium fluoride (CaF{2}), is of importance. This is the well-known mineral fluorspar.

CHLORINE

~Historical.~ While studying the action of hydrochloric acid upon the mineral pyrolusite, in
1774, Scheele obtained a yellowish, gaseous substance to which he gave a name in keeping with
the phlogiston theory then current. Later it was supposed to be a compound containing oxygen.
In 1810, however, the English chemist Sir Humphry Davy proved it to be an element and named
it chlorine.

~Occurrence.~ Chlorine does not occur free in nature, but its compounds are widely distributed.
For the most part it occurs in combination with the metals in the form of chlorides, those
of sodium, potassium, and magnesium being most abundant. Nearly all salt water contains these
substances, particularly sodium chloride, and very large salt beds consisting of chlorides
are found in many parts of the world.

~Preparation.~ Two general methods of preparing chlorine may be mentioned, namely, the laboratory
method and the electrolytic method.

1. Laboratory method. In the laboratory chlorine is made by warming the mineral pyrolusite
(manganese dioxide, MnO{2}) with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The first reaction, which
seems to be similar to the action of acids upon oxides in general, is expressed in the equation

    MnO{2} + 4HCl = MnCl{4} + 2H{2}O.

The manganese compound so formed is very unstable, however, and breaks clown according to the
equation

    MnCl{4} = MnCl{2} + 2Cl.

Instead of using hydrochloric acid in the preparation of chlorine it will serve just as well
to use a mixture of sodium chloride and sulphuric acid, since these two react to form hydrochloric
acid. The following equations will then express the changes:

    (1) 2NaCl + H{2}SO{4} = Na{2}SO{4} + 2HCl.

    (2) MnO{2} + 4 HCl = MnCl{2} + 2Cl + 2H{2}O.

    (3) MnCl{2} + H{2}SO{4} = MnSO{4} + 2HCl.

Combining these equations, the following equation expressing the complete reaction is obtained:

    2NaCl + MnO{2} + 2H{2}SO{4} = MnSO{4} + Na{2}SO{4} + 2H{2}O + 2Cl.

Since the hydrochloric acid liberated in the third equation is free to act upon manganese dioxide,
it will be seen that all of the chlorine originally present in the sodium chloride is set free.

     The manganese dioxide and the hydrochloric acid are brought
     together in a flask, as represented in Fig. 53, and a gentle
     heat is applied. The rate of evolution of the gas is regulated
     by the amount of heat applied, and the gas is collected by
     displacement of air. As the equations show, only half of the
     chlorine present in the hydrochloric acid is liberated.

2. Electrolytic method. Under the discussion of electrolysis (p. 102) it was shown that when
a solution of sodium chloride is electrolyzed chlorine is evolved at the anode, while the sodium
set free at the cathode reacts with the water to form hydrogen, which is evolved, and sodium
hydroxide, which remains in solution. A great deal of the chlorine required in the chemical
industries is now made in this way in connection with the manufacture of sodium hydroxide.

~Physical properties.~ Chlorine is a greenish-yellow gas, which has a peculiar suffocating
odor and produces a very violent effect upon the throat and lungs. Even when inhaled in small
quantities it often produces all the symptoms of a hard cold, and in larger quantities may
have serious and even fatal action. It is quite heavy (density = 2.45) and can therefore be
collected by displacement of air. One volume of water under ordinary conditions dissolves about
three volumes of chlorine. The gas is readily liquefied, a pressure of six atmospheres serving
to liquefy it at 0°. It forms a yellowish liquid which solidifies at -102°.

~Chemical properties.~ At ordinary temperatures chlorine is far more active chemically than
any of the elements we have so far considered, with the exception of fluorine; indeed, it is
one of the most active of all elements.

1. Action on metals. A great many metals combine directly with chlorine, especially when hot.
A strip of copper foil heated in a burner flame and then dropped into chlorine burns with incandescence.
Sodium burns brilliantly when heated strongly in slightly moist chlorine. Gold and silver are
quickly tarnished by the gas.

2. Action on non-metals. Chlorine has likewise a strong affinity for many of the non-metals.
Thus phosphorus burns in a current of the gas, while antimony and arsenic in the form of a
fine powder at once burst into flame when dropped into jars of the gas. The products formed
in all cases where chlorine combines with another element are called chlorides.

3. Action on hydrogen. Chlorine has a strong affinity for hydrogen, uniting with it to form
hydrochloric acid. A jet of hydrogen burning in the air continues to burn when introduced into
a jar of chlorine, giving a somewhat luminous flame. A mixture of the two gases explodes violently
when a spark is passed through it or when it is exposed to bright sunlight. In the latter case
it is the light and not the heat which starts the action.

4. Action on substances containing hydrogen. Not only will chlorine combine directly with free
hydrogen but it will often abstract the element from its compounds. Thus, when chlorine is
passed into a solution containing hydrosulphuric acid, sulphur is precipitated and Hydrochloric
acid formed. The reaction is shown by the following equation:

    H{2}S + 2Cl = 2HCl + S.

With ammonia the action is similar:

    NH{3} + 3Cl = 3HCl + N.

The same tendency is very strikingly seen in the action of chlorine upon turpentine. The latter
substance is largely made up of compounds having the composition represented by the formula
C{10}H{16}. When a strip of paper moistened with warm turpentine is placed in a jar of chlorine
dense fumes of hydrochloric acid appear and a black deposit of carbon is formed. Even water,
which is a very stable compound, can be decomposed by chlorine, the oxygen being liberated.
This may be shown in the following way:

     If a long tube of rather large diameter is filled with a strong
     solution of chlorine in water and inverted in a vessel of the
     same solution, as shown in Fig. 54, and the apparatus is placed
     in bright sunlight, very soon bubbles of a gas will be observed
     to rise through the solution and collect in the tube. An
     examination of this gas will show that it is oxygen. It is
     liberated from water in accordance with the following equation:

     H{2}O + 2Cl = 2HCl + O.

5. Action on color substances,--bleaching action. If strips of brightly colored cloth or some
highly colored flowers are placed in quite dry chlorine, no marked change in color is noticed
as a rule. If, however, the cloth and flowers are first moistened, the color rapidly disappears,
that is, the objects are bleached. Evidently the moisture as well as the chlorine is concerned
in the action, and a study of the case shows that the chlorine has combined with the hydrogen
of the water. The oxygen set free oxidizes the color substance, converting it into a colorless
compound. It is evident from this explanation that chlorine will only bleach those substances
which are changed into colorless compounds by oxidation.

6. Action as a disinfectant. Chlorine has also marked germicidal properties, and the free element,
as well as compounds from which it is easily liberated, are used as disinfectants.

~Nascent state.~ It will be noticed that oxygen when set free from water by chlorine is able
to do what ordinary oxygen cannot do, for both the cloth and the flowers are unchanged in the
air which contains oxygen. It is generally true that the activity of an element is greatest
at the instant of liberation from its compounds. To express this fact elements at the instant
of liberation are said to be in the nascent state. It is nascent oxygen which does the bleaching.

~Hydrochloric acid~ (muriatic acid) (HCl). The preparation of hydrochloric acid may be discussed
under two general heads:

1. Laboratory preparation. The product formed by the burning of hydrogen in chlorine is the
gas hydrochloric acid. This substance is much more easily obtained, however, by treating common
salt (sodium chloride) with sulphuric acid. The following equation shows the reaction:

    2NaCl + H{2}SO{4} = Na{2}SO{4} + 2HCl.

The dry salt is placed in a flask furnished with a funnel tube and an exit tube, the sulphuric
acid is added, and the flask gently warmed. The hydrochloric acid gas is rapidly given off
and can be collected by displacement of air. The same apparatus can be used as was employed
in the preparation of chlorine (Fig. 53).

     When a solution of salt is treated with sulphuric acid there
     is no very marked action. The hydrochloric acid formed is very
     soluble in water, and so does not escape from the solution;
     hence a state of equilibrium is soon reached between the four
     substances represented in the equation. When concentrated
     sulphuric acid, in which hydrochloric acid is not soluble, is
     poured upon dry salt the reaction is complete.

2. Commercial preparation. Commercially, hydrochloric acid is prepared in connection with the
manufacture of sodium sulphate, the reaction being the same as that just given. The reaction
is carried out in a furnace, and the hydrochloric acid as it escapes in the form of gas is
passed into water in which it dissolves, the solution forming the hydrochloric acid of commerce.
When the materials are pure a colorless solution is obtained. The most concentrated solution
has a density of 1.2 and contains 40% HCl. The commercial acid, often called muriatic acid,
is usually colored yellow by impurities.

~Composition of hydrochloric acid.~ When a solution of hydrochloric acid is electrolyzed in
an apparatus similar to the one in which water was electrolyzed (Fig. 18), chlorine collects
at the anode and hydrogen at the cathode. At first the chlorine dissolves in the water, but
soon the water in the one tube becomes saturated with it, and if the stopcocks are left open
until this is the case, and are then closed, it will be seen that the two gases are set free
in equal volumes.

When measured volumes of the two gases are caused to unite it is found that one volume of hydrogen
combines with one of chlorine. Other experiments show that the volume of hydrochloric acid
formed is just equal to the sum of the volumes of hydrogen and chlorine. Therefore one volume
of hydrogen combines with one volume of chlorine to form two volumes of hydrochloric acid gas.
Since chlorine is 35.18 times as heavy as hydrogen, it follows that one part of hydrogen by
weight combines with 35.18 parts of chlorine to form 36.18 parts of hydrochloric acid.

