163

  Notes on Newspapers, by H. M. Bealby                        164

  Mr. Gough's Translation of the History of the Bible         165

  Minor Notes:--Origin of Harlequins--Monosyllables--
  The Breeches, or Geneva Bible--Etymology of
  Mushroom--Curious Fact in Natural History--Hudibras
  in 1710--The Great Exhibition                               165

  QUERIES:--

  The Ten Commandments, by Rev. A. Gatty                      166

  Minor Queries:--Was Hugh Peters ever on the Stage?--
  English Synonymes--Christmas Day--A Coggeshall
  Job--"Saffron Walden, God help me"--T. Gilburt
  on Clandestine Marriages--Father Hehl, and Cahagnet--
  Roman Catholic Bishops in Ireland--Derivation of
  the Word Fib--Thomas May, the Author of the Supplement
  to Lucan--Bunting's Irish Melodies--Rudbeck,
  Campi Elysii--Prince of Wales' Motto--Borrow's
  Danish Ballads--Head of the Saviour--Lines
  on English History--The Sword Flamberg--Denarius
  Philosophorum--"Sees Good in everything"--Oxford
  Friar's Voyage to the North Pole--Roman
  Catholic Church--Cor Linguæ, &c.                            166

  REPLIES:--

  Cardinal's Monument                                         169

  Booty's Case                                                170

  The Conquest, by C. H. Cooper                               170

  Descent of Henry IV., by J. B. Colman                       171

  Replies to Minor Queries:--Chauncy--Entwysel--
  "Pretended" Reprint of Ancient Poetry--Lights on
  the Altar--Cognation of the Jews and Lacedæmonians--
  Queen Mary's Lament--Tandem D. O. M.                        171

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      173

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                174

  Notices to Correspondents                                   174

  Advertisements                                              174

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

A WORD TO THE LITERARY MEN OF ENGLAND.

    "Twenty scholars in seven years might retrieve the worst losses we
    experience from the bigotry of popes and califs. I do not intend to
    assert that every Herculanean manuscript might, within that period, be
    unfolded; but the three first legible sentences might be; which is
    quite sufficient to inform the intelligent reader whether a farther
    attempt on the scroll would repay his trouble. There are fewer than
    thirty Greek authors worth inquiring for; they exist, beyond doubt, and
    beyond doubt they may, by attention, patience, and skill, be brought to
    light. * * With a smaller sum than is annually expended on the
    appointment of some silly and impertinent young envoy, we might restore
    all, or nearly all those writers of immortal name, whose
    disappearance has been the regret of genius for four entire centuries.
    In my opinion, a few thousand pounds, laid out on such an
    undertaking, would be laid out as creditably as on a Persian carpet or
    a Turkish tent."--Landor's Imaginary Conversations--Southey and
    Porson--Works, vol. i. p. 20.

I call upon the literary men of England, upon the English government, and upon the public,
to set the example in a glorious expedition, which, even in this age of wonders, is one of
no little importance and magnitude. I conjure them to bear in mind the words I have placed
at the head of this article,--the opinion of one of our best and most delightful authors. This
opinion Mr. Landor, veiled under the eidolon of Porson, I feel assured, does not hold alone;
I believe it to be engraven on the "red-leaved tablets" of the hearts of many more learned
and more distinguished scholars than myself, who am but as the trumpet which is to rouse the
friends of classical literature to action; as the bell which awakens the reaper to his abundant
harvest: but I will sustain, that on none of them is it cut more deeply or more inextinguishably
than on mine.

I propose that the friends of Classical, Scandinavian, and Oriental literature form themselves
into an Association for the Rescue of the many ancient MSS. in the Greek, Latin, Anglo-Saxon,
Norwegian, Zend, Sanscrit, Hebrew, Abyssinian, Ethiopian, Hindostanee, Persian, Syriac, Arabic,
Armenian, Coptic, Turkish, and Chinese languages:--that application be made to government for
the pecuniary furtherance of this enterprise;--and that the active co-operation of all foreign
literary men be secured.[1]

Thus a careful and untiring search may be entered upon in all the regions of the earth where
any MSS. are likely to be found, and the recovery or loss of the many inestimable authors of
antiquity be made certain. Let the libraries of Europe be examined strictly and inquisitorially
(and this will not be a heavy expense), and the new accessions to classical literature printed,
the MSS. {162} which present themselves of already known authors carefully examined, and the
variations to the received text marked. How much this is wanted we experience in the corruptions
of Sophocles, Æschylus, Thucydides, Plato, and Aristoteles! In this way much that is valuable
may be recovered; much that is matter of discussion set at rest. Let me instance the Babrian
fables, and the discovery of Mr. Harris at Alexandria; who, it was remarked to me, might have
discovered the whole, instead of a part, had proper hands unfolded the mummy.

On the advantages of this search, it were useless to expatiate: every one is sensible of it,
and, sooner or later, it must occur. Let us not allow our grandchildren to surpass us in everything,
but let us set about this ourselves. Monstrous as the idea seems, it is simple of execution.

I will not take up the space so kindly afforded me by the Editor of "NOTES AND QUERIES" with
speculation. The Association should be composed of a Literary Section and a Business Section:
the first to be under the administration of a President and an efficient Board of Examiners,
to look into literary matters, and examine and appoint the proper officers of the Investigation
Parties; which parties must be composed of clever, adventurous, hardy, and adroit men, obtaining
the assistance of the natives wherever they may be carrying on their researches; the Second
Section to be under the direction of a Chairman and Finance Committee, to which the officers
of the subordinate departments render their accounts.

I know not whether more will be required of me on this subject; very likely not: but I reserve
much that I could say, until that time. I have now only to thank the Editor for inserting this
long, but I will not say, wholly uninteresting proposal.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

  February 18. 1851.

[Footnote 1: I need not remind you how favourable an opportunity is presented by this year.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ESSAY ON SATIRE.

Dryden, as sir Walter Scott observes, left a name in literature "second only to those of Milton
and Shakspere"; but, popular as his writings were, he gave no collective edition of his poetical
or dramatic works. The current editions of his poems may therefore be open to censure, both
on the score of deficiency and redundancy--and such I believe to be the fact.

An Essay on satire, itself a coarse satire, has been ascribed to him for more than a century
on dubious authority, and the correctness of this ascription has been properly suggested as
a question for examination.

We have to decide on the credibility of two opposite statements, as made in the publications
about to be enumerated:--

    1. "The works of John Sheffield, earl of Mulgrave, marquis of Normanby,
    and duke of Buckingham. LONDON: printed for John Barber, 1723. 4º. 2
    vols."

