The Old Ship "Royal Escape."--The following extract from the Norwich Mercury of Aug. 21, 1819,
under the head of "Yarmouth News," will probably be gratifying to your querist ANON, Vol. vii.,
p. 380.:

    "On the 13th inst. put into this port (Yarmouth), having been grounded
    on the Barnard Sand, The Royal Escape, government hoy, with horses
    for his royal highness at Hanover. This vessel is the same that King
    Charles II. made his escape in from Brighthelmstone."

JOSEPH DAVEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

"THE LIGHT OF BRITTAINE."

I should be glad, through the medium of "N. & Q.," to be favoured with some particulars regarding
this work, and its author, Maister Henry Lyte, of Lytescarie, Esq. He presented the said work
with his own hand to "our late soveraigne queene and matchlesse mistresse, on the day when
shee came, in royall manner, to Paule's Church." I shall also be glad of any information about
his son, Maister Thomas Lyte, of Lytescarie, Esq., "a true immitator and heyre to his father's
vertues," and who

    "Presented to the Majestie of King James, (with) an excellent mappe or
    genealogicall table (contayning the bredth and circumference of twenty
    large sheets of paper), which he entitleth Brittaines Monarchy,
    approuing Brute's History, and the whole succession of this our nation,
    from the very original, with the just observation of al times, changes,
    and occasions therein happening. This worthy worke, having cost above
    {571} seaven yeares labour, beside great charges and expense, his
    highnesse hath made very gracious acceptance of, and to witnesse the
    same, in court it hangeth in an especiall place of eminence. Pitty it
    is, that this phoenix (as yet) affordeth not a fellowe, or that from
    privacie it might not bee made more generall; but, as his Majestie has
    granted him priviledge, so, that the world might be woorthie to enjoy
    it, whereto, if friendship may prevaile, as he hath been already, so
    shall he be still as earnestly sollicited."

These two works appear to have been written towards the close of the sixteenth century. Is
anything more known of them, and their respective authors?

TRAJA-NOVA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Thirteen an unlucky Number.--Is there not at Dantzic a clock, which at 12 admits, through a
door, Christ and the Eleven, shutting out Judas, who is admitted at 1?

A. C.

Quotations.--

    "I saw a man, who saw a man, who said he saw the king."

Whence?

    "Look not mournfully into the past; it comes not back again,"
    &c.--Motto of Hyperion.

Whence?

A. A. D.

"Other-some" and "Unneath."--I do not recollect having ever seen these expressions, until reading
Parnell's Fairy Tale. They occur in the following stanzas:

 "But now, to please the fairy king,
  Full every deal they laugh and sing,
    And antic feats devise;
  Some wind and tumble like an ape,
  And other-some transmute their shape
    In Edwin's wondering eyes.

 "Till one at last, that Robin hight,
  Renown'd for pinching maids by night,
    Has bent him up aloof;
  And full against the beam he flung,
  Where by the back the youth he hung
    To sprawl unneath the roof."

As the author professes the poem to be "in the ancient English style," are these words veritable
ancient English? If so, some correspondent of "N. & Q." may perhaps be able to give instances
of their recurrence.

ROBERT WRIGHT.

Newx, &c.--Can any of your readers give me the unde derivatur of the word newx, or noux, or
knoux? It is a very old word, used for the last hundred years, as fag is at our public schools,
for a young cadet at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. When I was there, some twenty-five
or twenty-seven years ago, the noux was the youngest cadet of the four who slept in one room:
and a precious life of it he led. But this, I hope, is altered now. I have often wanted to
find out from whence this term is derived, and I suppose that your paper will find some among
your numerous correspondents who will be able to enlighten me.

T. W. N.

Malta.

"A Joabi Alloquio."--Who can explain the following, and point out its source? I copy from the
work of a Lutheran divine, Conrad Dieteric, Analysis Evangeliorum, 1631, p. 188.:

 "A Joabi Alloquio,
  A Thyestis Convivio,
  Ab Iscariotis 'Ave,'
  A Diasii 'Salve'
  Ab Herodis 'Redite'
  A Gallorum 'Venite.'
          Libera nos Domine."

The fourth and sixth line I do not understand.

B. H. C.

Illuminations.--When were illuminations in cities first introduced? Is there any allusion to
them in classic authors?

CAPE.

Heraldic Queries.--Will some correspondent versed in heraldry answer me the following questions?

1. What is the origin and meaning of women of all ranks, except the sovereign, being now debarred
from bearing their arms in shields, and having to bear them in lozenges? Formerly, all ladies
of rank bore shields upon their seals, e.g. the seal of Margaret, Countess of Norfolk, who
deceased A.D. 1399; and of Margaret, Countess of Richmond, and mother of Henry VIII., who deceased
A.D. 1509. These shields are figured in the Glossary of Heraldry, pp. 285, 286.

2. Is it, heraldically speaking, wrong to inscribe the motto upon a circle (not a garter) or
ribbon round the shield? So says the Glossary, p. 227. If wrong, on what principle?

3. Was it ever the custom in this country, as on the Continent to this day, for ecclesiastics
to bear their arms in a circular or oval panel?--the martial form of the shield being considered
inconsistent with their spiritual character. If so, when did the custom commence, and where
may instances be seen either on monuments or in illustrated works?

CEYREP.

John's Spoils from Peterborough and Crowland.--Clement Spelman, in his Preface to the reader,
with which he introduces his father's treatise De non temerandis Ecclesiis, says (edit. Oxford,
1841, p.45.):

    "I cannot omit the sacrilege and punishment of King John, who in the
    seventeenth year of his reign, among other churches, rifled the abbeys
    of {572} Peterborough and Croyland, and after attempts to carry his
    sacrilegious wealth from Lynn to Lincoln; but, passing the Washes, the
    earth in the midst of the waters opens her mouth (as for Korah and his
    company), and at once swallows up both carts, carriage, and horses, all
    his treasure, all his regalities, all his church spoil, and all the
    church spoilers; not one escapes to bring the king word," &c.

Is the precise spot known where this catastrophe occurred, or have any relics been since recovered
to give evidence of the fact?

J. SANSOM.

"Elementa sex," &c.--Perhaps one of your readers, given to such trifles, will hazard a guess
at the solution, if not at the author, of the subjoined:

 "Elementa sex me proferent totam tibi;
  Totam hanc, lucernis si tepent fungi, vides,
  Accisa senibus suppetit saltantibus,
  Levetur, armis adfremunt Horatii;
  Facienda res est omnibus, si fit minor,
  Es, quod relinquis deinde, si subtraxeris;
  Si rite tandem quæritas originem,
  Ad sibilum, vix ad sonum, reverteris."

EFFIGY.

Jack and Gill--Sir Hubbard de Hoy.--Having recently amused myself by a dive into old Tusser's
Husbandrie, the following passages suggested themselves as fitting Queries for your pages:

Jack and Gill.--

 "Let Jack nor Gill
  Fetch corn at will."

Can the "Jack and Gill" of our nursery tales be traced to an earlier date than Tusser's time?

Hobble de Hoy.--Speaking of the periods of a man's life, Tusser's advice, from the age of fourteen
years to twenty-one, is to "Keep under Sir Hubbard de Hoy." Is it known whether there ever
existed a personage so named, either as a legend or a myth? And if not, what is the origin
of the modern term "Hobble de Hoy" as a designation for a stripling? Bailey omits it in his
Dictionary.

L. A. M.

Humphrey Hawarden.--Information is solicited respecting this individual, who was a Doctor of
Laws, and living in 1494. Also, of a Justice Port, living about the same period.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

"Populus vult decipi."--

 "Populus  }               {
  Mundus   }  vult decipi  { et decipiatur,
  Vulgus   }               { decipiatur ergo."

Who was the author of the maxim? which is its correct form? and where is it to be found? It
seems to present another curious instance of our ignorance of things with which we are familiar.
I have put the question to a dozen scholars, fellows of colleges, barristers, &c. &c., and
none has been able to give me an answer. One only thinks it was a dictum of some Pope.

HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

Sheriffs of Huntingdonshire and Cambridgeshire.--Where can any list of the sheriffs for these
counties be found, previous to the list given by Fuller from the time of Henry VIII.?

D.

Harris.--The Rev. William Harris, B.A., was presented, by Thomas Pindar, Esq., to the vicarage
of Luddington, Lincolnshire, on the 7th August, 1722. Mr. Harris died here in June, 1748, aged
eighty-two.

A tradition of his being a wizard still lingers in the village, and I should be very glad to
receive any particulars respecting him. From an inspection of his will at Lincoln, it appears
that he used the coat of the ancient family of Harris of Radford, Devon, and that his wife's
name was Honora, a Christian name not infrequent about that period in families of the West
of England also, as, for instance, Honora, daughter of Sir Richard Rogers of Bryanstone, who
married Edward Lord Beauchamp, and had a daughter Honora, who married Sir Ferdinand Sutton;
Honora, the wife of Harry Conway, Esq., of Bodrhyddan, Flint; Honora, daughter of Edward Fortescue
of Fallapit; besides others.

W. H. LAMMIN.

Fulham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

BISHOP BUTLER.

(Vol. vii., p. 528.)

"Charity thinketh no evil;" but we must feel both surprise and regret that any one should,
in 1853, consider it a doubtful question whether Bishop Butler died in the communion of the
Church of England. The bishop has now been in his grave more than a hundred years; but Warburton
says truly, "How light a matter very often subjects the best-established characters to the
suspicions of posterity--how ready is a remote age to catch at a low revived slander, which
the times that brought it forth saw despised and forgotten almost in its birth."

X. Y. Z. says he would be glad to have this charge (originally brought forward in 1767) sifted.
He will find that it has been sifted, and in the most full and satisfactory manner, by persons
of no less distinction than Archbishop Secker and Bishop Halifax. The strong language employed
by the archbishop, when refuting what he terms {573} a "gross and scandalous falsehood," and
when asserting the bishops "abhorrence of popery," need not here be quoted, as "N.& Q." is
not the most proper channel for the discussion of theological subjects; but it is alleged that
every man of sense and candour was convinced at the time that the charge should be retracted;
and it must be a satisfaction to your correspondent to know, that as Bishop Butler lived so
he died, in full communion with that Church, which he adorned equally by his matchless writings,
sanctity of manners, and spotless life.[4]

J. H. MARKLAND.

Bath.

[Footnote 4: Your correspondent may be referred to Memoirs of the Life of Bishop Butler, by
a connexion of his own, the Rev. Thomas Bartlett, A.M., published in 1839; and to a review
of the same work in the Quarterly Review, vol. lxiv. p. 331.]

