"For the moment," said the Englishman, "she's carried away by the glamour of this Vigilante
movement. They seem to her strong men. She contrasts them with us men of the world, and as
she cannot see that a polished exterior is not incompatible with strength, she has a faint
growing contempt for us. Women like strength, masterfulness. It is the chance of your life
to show her that a man comme il faut is the equal of these squalid brutes in that respect.
She is in love with you already, but she doesn't know it. All that is necessary is a show of
masterfulness to make her realize it." He stifled a yawn. "Lord, what dreary piffle!" he confided
to himself. He painted Keith as a contemptible renegade from his own class, currying favour
with those below him, a cheap demagogue, a turncoat avid for popular power.

"At heart he's a coward--all such men are. And he's so wrapped up in his ambition that his
wife is a small matter to him. There's no danger from him, for he's away; and after the first
flare-up we'll be able to handle him among us, never fear!" But after impressing this point,
Morrell always was most careful to interpose the warning: "If it should come to trouble, don't
let him get near you! He's absolutely rotten with a gun--you saw him in that farce of a duel--but
he's a strong beggar. Don't let him get his hands on you!"

"I won't," promised Sansome, a trifle shakily.

Then Morrell, lighting a fresh cigar and fortifying his bored soul with another drink, skilfully
outlined a portrait of Sansome himself as a hero, a dashing man of the world, a real devil
among the ladies, the haughty and proud exponent of aristocratic high-handedness. He laid this
on pretty thick, but Sansome had by now consumed a vast number of drinks, and was ready to
swallow almost anything in addition. Morrell's customary demeanour was rather stolid, silent,
and stupid; but when he was really interested and cared to exert himself, he became unexpectedly
voluble and plausible. Mid-evening he drove this creature of his own fashioning out to Jake's
Place, and deposited him in the parlour with the open fire, the table of drinks, and the easy
chairs.

His plans from this point on were based on the fact that he had started Keith out on an expedition
that should last all night. Had there been the slightest chance that the injured husband could
appear, you may be sure Morrell would not have been present. Of course witnesses were necessary
to the meeting at the road house. With Keith imminent, hirelings would have been arranged for.
With Keith safety away, Morrell saw no reason why he should not enjoy the situation himself.
Therefore he had arranged a little supper party. Teeny McFarlane and Jimmy Ware were his first
thought. Then he added Pop McFarlane. If he wanted Teeny as a witness, the party must be respectable!

At the sound of wheels outside Morrell arose and slipped out the back door of the parlour.

"Now, remember!" he told Sansome from the doorway. "Now's the chance of your life! You've got
her love, and you must keep her. She'll cut up rough at first. That's when you must show what's
in you. Go right after her!"

As Nan burst into the room by one door he softly closed--and locked--the other behind him.

LXXIII

But Sansome, although he had put up a brave front to the last moment, was not in reality feeling
near the hero of romance he looked. In spite of Morrell's cleverness, the Englishman had failed
to observe that Sansome had touched the fringe of that second stage of semi-drunkenness when
the "drinks were dying on him." While outwardly fairly sober, inwardly he was verging toward
the incoherent. First one phase or mood would come to the top, then another, without order;
sequence, or logical reason. He was momentarily dangerous or harmless. Nan's abrupt entrance
scattered his last coherences. For the moment he fell back on habit, and habit was with him
conventional He smiled his best smile.

"Do sit down," he urged in his most society manner.

This immediately convinced Nan that Keith must be badly hurt.

"Tell me at once!" she demanded "Where is Milton? Is he--is--"

"As far as I know," replied Sansome, still in his courtly manner, "Mr. Keith is in perfect
health. As to where he is"--he waved an airy hand--"I do not know. It does not matter, does
it? The point is we are cozy here together. Do sit down."

"I don't understand," said she, advancing a step nearer, her brows knit, "Don't put me off.
I got a note saying--"

"I know; I wrote it," boasted Sansome fatuously.

The blood mounted her face, her fists clenched, she advanced several steps fearlessly.

"I don't, quite understand," she repeated, in hard, crisp tones. "You wrote it?' Isn't it true?
What did you do such a thing for?"

"To get you here, my dear, of course," rejoined Sansome gallantly. "I knew your puritanical
scruples--I love them every one--but--"

"Do you mean to say you dared decoy me here!" challenged Nan, all aflame. Her whole emotion
was one of rage. It did not occur to her to be afraid of Ben Sansome, the conventional, the
dilettante exquisite, without the gumption to say boo to a goose!

This Sansome answered her, the habit of society strong within him. He became deprecatory, pleading,
almost apologetic. His manners were on top and his rather weak nature quailed before the blaze
of her anger.

"I know it was inexcusable," he babbled, "but what could I do? I am mad about you! Do forgive
me! Just sit down for a few moments. I don't blame you for being angry--any one is angry at
being deceived--but do forgive me. If you'll only consider why I did it, you won't be angry.
That's right," he ended soothingly, seeing that she neither spoke nor moved, "Just sit right
down here and be comfortable. It must be cold driving. Let me give you a glass of sherry."
He fussed about, shoving forward an armchair, arranging pillows, unstopping the decanter.

"You fool!" she ejaculated in a low voice. She looked him all up and down, and turned to go.

The door was locked! For the first time she noticed that Mrs. Morrell had not followed her
in. Her heart fluttered in sudden panic, which she subdued. She moved toward the other door.

The words, and especially the frustration of her intention, brought another mood to the surface
of Sansome's intoxication. The polished society man with the habit of external unselfishness
disappeared. Another Sansome, whom Nan did not recognize, sprang to take his place.

"No, you don't!" he snarled. "That door's locked, too. You don't get out of here until I choose
to let you out!"

"You'll let me out; and you'll let me out right now, or I'll call for help," said Nan determinedly.

Sansome deliberately seated himself, stretching his legs out straight before him, his hands
in his pockets. This was the masterful role he had seen himself playing, and he instinctively
took the attitude approved by the best melodramatic masters.

"Call all you please," he sneered. "Nobody's going to pay any attention to your calls at Jake's
Place!"

Nan's heart went cold as she realized the complete truth of this. She was beginning to know
fear. This was a new sort of creature before her, one with which she was acquainted only by
instinct. She did not know what to do next, except that she saw surely that open opposition
would only aggravate the situation.

"I must gain time!" she told herself, though to what end she could not have said.

Her pulses beat wildly, but she forced herself to a specious calmness.

"But Ben," she said as naturally as she could, "why did you do so foolish a thing as this?
It might make all kinds of trouble. You can always see me at the house; you know that. Why
did you get me out on this mad expedition? If we were to be seen here by anybody we would be
deeply compromised."

The words reminded her of Mrs. Morrell; but out of sheer terror she resolutely thrust that
idea from her mind. At this appeal Sansome suddenly became maudlin.

"You've treated me like a dog lately--a yellow dog!" he mourned. "What good did it do to go
to your house and be treated like a yellow dog?"

Nan's faculties were beginning to rally after the first panic. Her heart was still thumping
violently, but her eyes were bright, and her fighting courage was flowing back. For the first
time his obvious condition registered on her brain.

"He's drunk!" she thought.

This discovery at first induced in her another, small panic. Then her courage boldly took it
as a point of attack. The man was drunk and dangerous; very well, let us make him more drunk
and less dangerous. That was a desperate enough expedient, but at least it was definite. She
crossed deliberately to the other easy chair, and sat down.

"Well, let's sit down," she agreed. "No!" more decidedly, "you sit there, on the other side.
It's more cozy," she continued, at just the right moment to get her effect on his instinct
of good manners. "Now, I will have that sherry. No, don't bother; it is next my hand. You must
drink with me. Let me pour it for you--with my own hands--aren't you flattered?"

She smiled across at him. This sudden reversion to an easy every-day plane had brought Sansome's
first mood again to the surface. In this atmosphere of orderly tete-a-tete he was again the
society man. Nan breathed freer. He murmured something inane and conventional about Hebe.

"Meaning you're a little tin god?" she chaffed.

He said something still more involved, to the effect that her presence would make a god out
of the most unworthy mortal. It was all vapid, unreal, elaborate, artificial.

"If I can only keep him at this!" thought she desperately.

She had drunk her glass of sherry because she felt she needed it. Now she poured another, and
without comment, refilled Sansome's whiskey glass.

"Here's to us!" she cried, lifting her glass.

Nan's plan of getting him so drunk that he would not interfere with her escape had the merit
of simplicity, and also of endorsement by such excellent authority as melodrama and the novel.
It had the defect of being entirely theoretical. Nan's innocence of the matter in hand had
not taken into account the intermediate stages of drunkenness, nor did she realize the strength
inherent in the association of ideas. As she leaned forward to fill the glasses, Sansome's
eyes brightened. He had seen women pouring wine many times before. The picture before him reminded
him of a dozen similar pictures taken from the gallery of his rather disreputable past. His
elaborate complimentary mood vanished. He pledged her ardently, and deep in his eyes began
to burn a secret covetous flame. Nan poured her, sherry under the table.

"This really is a cozy party!" she cried. "Will you have another with me?"

The third glass of neat whiskey whirled in Sansome's head. He was verging toward complete drunkenness,
but in the meantime became amorous. His eyes burned, his lips fell apart. Nan tried in desperation
to keep on a plane of light persiflage, to hold him to his chair and to the impersonal. Deep
fear entered her. She urged more drink on him, hoping that he would be overpowered. It was
like a desperate race between this man's passions and the deep oblivion that reached for them.
Her mouth was dry, and her brain whirled. Only by the greatest effort could she prevent herself
from flying to pieces. Sansome hardly appeared to hear her. He wagged his head at her, looking
upon her with swimming, benevolent eyes. Suddenly, without warning, he sprang up, overturning
with a crash the small table and the bottles and glasses.

"By God, you're the most beautiful woman I ever saw!" he cried. "Come here!"

He advanced on her, his eyes alight. She saw that the crisis had come, and threw aside all
pretence.

"Keep away! Keep away!" she warned him through, gritted teeth; then, as he continued to stumble
toward her, she struck at him viciously again and again with one of the small light chairs.

For a moment or so she actually managed to beat him off; but he lunged through the blows and
seized her around the shoulders.

"Reg'lar little tiger cat!" he murmured with fond admiration.

His reeking breath was on her neck as he sought her mouth. She threw her head back and to one
side, fighting desperately and silently, tearing at him with her hands, writhing her body,
lowering her head as he forced her around, kicking at his shin. The man's strength was as horrible
as it was unexpected. The efforts to which she was giving her every ounce did not appear to
have the slightest effect on him, His handsome weak face continued to smile foolishly and fondly
down on her.

"Reg'lar little tiger cat!" he repeated over and over.

The terrible realization dawned on her that he was too much for her. Her body suddenly went
lax. She threw back her and screamed.

LXXIV

The plot which Morrell had first suggested idly and as sort of a joke, but which later he had
entered into with growing belief, was quite perfect in all details but one: he assumed that
Keith had accompanied Durkee's expedition, and was sure that he had seen the young lawyer off.
As a matter of fact, Keith had been recalled. A messenger had at the very last moment handed
him an order sealed with the well-known open eye, and signed "33 Secretary." It commanded him
to proceed with certain designated men to the arrest of certain others inscribed on the black
list. This was a direct order, whereas the present expedition was wholly a voluntary affair.
Keith had no alternative but to obey, though he did so reluctantly, for this search for arms
had promised sport. Therefore, he stepped ashore at the last instant; a proceeding unobserved
by Morrell, who was surveying the scene from a distance, and who turned away once the sails
were hoisted.

The duty to which Keith had been assigned took some time. The men had to be searched out one
by one, escorted to headquarters, and the usual formalities there accomplished. It was late
in the evening before he was free to go home. He let himself in with his latchkey, and had
just turned up the low-burning gas in the hall when the sound of hurrying feet brought him
back to the door. He flung it open to confront Mrs. Sherwood and Krafft. They were both panting
as though they had run some distance and Krafft's usually precise attire was dishevelled and
awry, as though it had been hastily put on.

"Nan!" gasped Mrs. Sherwood. "Is she here?"

Keith, with instant decision, asking no questions, threw open the parlour door, glanced within,
ran upstairs three steps at a time, but almost immediately returned after a hasty inspection
of the upper story. His face had gone very pale, but he had himself in perfect control.

"Well?" he demanded crisply, looking from one to the other.

But Mrs. Sherwood did not stop to answer. With a stifled exclamation she darted from the house.
Krafft looked after her, bewildered. Keith shook him savagely by the shoulder.

"Speak up, man! Quick! What is it?" demanded Keith. His voice was vibrant with suppressed excitement,
but he held himself outwardly calm, and waited immobile until the end of Krafft's story. It
was characteristic of him as of all strong men in a crisis that he made no move whatever until
he was sure he had grasped the whole situation.

Krafft was just going to bed--he always retired early--when he was called to the door by Mex
Ryan. Mex had never come to his house before. He was a shoulder striker and a thug; but he
had one sure streak of loyalty in that nothing could ever induce him to go back on a pal. For
various reasons he considered Krafft a pal. He was very much troubled.

"Look here, boss," he said to Krafft, "It just come to my mind a while ago: what was the name
of that bloke you told me to keep off'n? The Cora trial man, I mean."

Krafft recalled the circumstance, and named Keith.

Mex slapped his head.

"That's right! It come to me afterward. Well, there's dirty work with his wife. That's where
I see the name, on the outside of the note. I just give her a fake letter that says her husband
is shot, and she's to go to him."

"How did he know what the letter said?" interjected Keith at this point.

"He'd read anything given him, of course. Mex knew the letter was false. I came up to find
your house. I didn't know where you lived, so I stopped at John Sherwood's to inquire. Mrs.
Sherwood was home alone. She came with me."

"Where did this letter say I was supposed to be?" asked Keith,

"Jake's Place."

"My God!" cried Keith, and leaped for the door. At the same instant Mrs. Sherwood's voice was
heard from the darkness.

"Come here," she cried, "I have a rig."

They found her seated in a buggy. Both climbed in beside her. Keith took the reins, and lashed
the horse with the light whip. The astonished animal leaped; the buggy jerked forward.

Then began a wild, careering, bumpy ride into the night. The road was fearful and all but invisible.
The carriage swayed and swung dangerously. Keith drove, every faculty concentrated. No one
spoke. The dim and ghostly half-guessed forms of things at night streamed past.

"Who sent that letter?" demanded Keith finally.

"Mex wouldn't tell me," replied Krafft.

"How long ago did he deliver it?"

"About an hour."

The horse plunged frantically under the lash as this reply reached Keith. The buggy was all
but overturned. He pulled the frantic animal down to a slower pace, and with an obvious effort
regained control of himself.

"Can't afford an accident!" he warned himself.

"Are you armed?" Mrs. Sherwood asked him suddenly.

"Yes--no, I left my gun at headquarters--that doesn't matter."

Mrs. Sherwood made no comment. The wind caught her hair and whipped it about. In the distance
now twinkled the lights of Jake's Place. Keith took a firmer grip on the reins, and again applied
the whip. They swept into the gravelled driveway on two wheels, righted themselves, and rounded
to the veranda. Keith pulled up and leaped to the ground. Nobody was visible. From the veranda
he turned on them.

"Here, you!" he commanded Mrs. Sherwood sharply, "I can't have you in this row! Stay here,
outside. You take care of her," he told Krafft. "No, I mean it!"

On his words a scream burst from the lighted room. Keith sprang to the door, found it locked,
and drew back. With a low mighty rush he thrust his shoulder against the panel near the lock.
The wood splintered. He sprang forward into the room.

LXXV

After turning the key in the lock outside the parlour door Mrs. Morrell slipped along the dark
veranda, passed through a narrow hall, and entered a small back sitting-room. Jake's Place
especially abounded in sitting-rooms. This particular one was next the parlour, so that one
listening intently could be more or less aware of what was going on in the larger room. Here
Morrell was already seated, a bottle of beer next his hand. He raised his eyebrows on her entrance,
and she nodded back reassuringly. She, too, sat down and helped herself to beer. Both smoked.
For a long time neither said anything.

"Don't hear much in there," observed Mrs. Morrell finally, in a low guarded tone.

"Not a sound," agreed Morrell. "You don't suppose she--"

"No, I don't think so."

"Then I don't see what ails that fool, Sansome! It'd be just like him to jib."

"What does it matter?" observed Mrs. Morrell philosophically, "We don't care what is happening
inside as long as those two doors stay locked until Teeny and Jimmy Ware get here."

As has been mentioned, Pop McFarlane was also of the party; but, characteristically, neither
would have thought that fact worth mentioning.

"Just the same, as a matter of academic interest, I'd have expected her to make more of a 
row," said Morrell. "I'll wager for all her airs she runs the same gait as all the rest of you."

"Do you mean me?" demanded Mrs. Morrell, her eyes flashing dangerously.

"Moderate your voice, my dear," advised he. "My remark was wholly general of your charming sex."

From the parlour now they heard faintly the first sounds of struggle.

"That's more like," he said with satisfaction. "I hate to have my ideals shattered."

Wheels became audible.

"There's Teeny, now," he observed, arising. He sauntered down the hall and looked out. "Keith!"
he whispered back over his shoulder. "Where in hell did he come from?" He continued to peer
into the darkness. "There's two others. Well, at any rate, we have plenty of witnesses!" He
turned to Mrs. Morrell. "You'd better make yourself scarce. You locked that door, you know!"

"Scarce!" she repeated, staring at him. "Where? How?"

He looked at her through narrowed lids.

"Get a horse of Jake," he said at last. "I'll meet you--oh, at the house. We'll arrange later."

He watched her rather opulent figure steal down the dim hallway. A cynical smile flashed under
his moustache. He turned back to the drama before him. The buggy had disappeared; the veranda
was apparently empty.

"Now I wonder who will shoot who?" speculated Morrell.

He stole to the first of the windows. The lower blinds were drawn, but the upper half of the
window was clear. Morrell cautiously placed a stool nearby, and mounted it so he could see
into the room. For several minutes he watched. Then his hand stole to his pocket. He produced
a revolver.

LXXVI

Blinded by the light, Keith stood for a barely appreciable moment in the wrecked doorway. Sansome,
startled by the crash, relaxed his efforts. Nan thrust him from her so strongly that he staggered
back. Keith's vision cleared. He appreciated the meaning of the tableau, uttered a choked growl,
and advanced.

Immediately Sansome drew and presented his weapon. He was shocked far toward sobriety, but
the residue of the whiskey fumes in combination with a sudden sick and guilty panic imbued
him with a sort of desperation. Sansome was a bold and dashing villain only as long as things
came his way. His amours had always been of the safe rather than the wildly adventurous sort.
Sansome had no morals; but being found out produced effects so closely resembling those of
conscience that they could not be distinguished. In the chaotic collapse of this heroic episode
he managed to cling to but one thing. That was Morrell's often reiterated warning: "Don't let
Keith get his hands on you!"

At the sight of his levelled weapon, Nan, who was nearest, uttered a stifled cry and made as
though to throw herself on him.

"Stop!" commanded Keith, without looking toward her. But so quietly authoritative was his voice
and manner that in spite of herself her impulse was checked. She remained rigid.

Keith advanced steadily on Sansome, his hands clenched at his side, his eye's fixed frowningly
and contemptuously on those of the other man. The pistol barrel was held on his breast. Sansome
fully intended to shoot, but found himself unable to pull the trigger. This is a condition
every rifleman knows well by experience; he calls it being "frozen on the bull's eye," when,
the alignment perfect, his rifle steady as a rock, he nevertheless cannot transmit just the
little nerve power necessary to crook the forefinger. Three times Sansome sent the message
to his trigger finger; three times the impulse died before it had compassed the distance between
his brain and his hand. This was partly because his correlations had been weakened by the drink;
partly because his fuddled mind was divided between fear, guilt, despair, and a rage at himself
for having got into such a mess; but principally because he was hypnotically dominated by the
other man's stronger personality.

So evident was this that a sudden feeling of confidence replaced in Nan the sick terror at
the sight of the weapon. She seemed to know positively that here was no real peril. A wave
of contempt for Sansome, even as a dangerous creature, mingled with a passionate admiration
for the man who thus dominated him unarmed.

Sansome's nerve broke. He dropped his hand, looked to right and left frantically like a rat
in a corner, uttered a very ratty squeak. Suddenly he hurled the loaded pistol blindly at Keith,
and plunged bodily, with an immense crash of breaking glass, through the closed window. Keith,
with a snarl of baffled rage, dashed forward.

The sight seemed to touch Nan's sense of humour. She laughed at the picture, caught her breath,
gasped. Keith whirled and snatched her fiercely in his arms.

"Nan!" he cried in an agony, "are you all right? What did that beast--"

She clung to him, still choking, on the edge of hysterics. In a moment of illumination she
realized that the intangible barrier these past years had so slowly built between them had
gone crashing down before the assault of the old love triumphant.

"I'm all right, dear," she gasped; "really all right. And I never was so happy in my life!"

They clung together frantically, he patting her shoulder, her cheek against his own, murmuring
broken, soothing little phrases. The time and the place did not exist for them.

A scuffle outside, which they had only vaguely sensed, and which had not at all penetrated
to their understandings, came to an end. Mrs. Sherwood appeared in the doorway. Her dress was
torn and dishevelled, a strand of her smooth hair had fallen across her forehead, an angry
red mark showed on one cheek. But she was in high spirits. Her customary quiet poise had given
place to a vibrant, birdlike, vital, quivering eagerness. To the two in the centre of the room,
still clasped in each other's arms, came the same thought: that never, in spite of her ruffled
plumes, in spite of the cheek already beginning to swell, had this extraordinary woman looked
so beautiful! Then Keith realized that she was panting heavily, and was clinging to the doorway.
He sprang to her assistance.

"What is it? Where is Krafft?" he asked.

She laughed a little, and permitted him to help her to an armchair into which she sank. She
waved aside Keith's attempts to find a whole glass in the wreckage of the table.

"I'm all right," she said, "and isn't this a nice little party?"

"What has happened? Where is Krafft?" repeated Keith.

"I sent him to the stable for help. There didn't seem to be anybody about the place."

"But what happened to you? Did that brute Sansome--"

"Sansome? was that Sansome? the one who came through the window?" She dabbed at her cheek.
"You might wet me a handkerchief or a towel or something," she suggested. "No, he didn't stop!"
she laughed again. "Are you all right?" she asked anxiously of Nan.

"Yes. But tell us--"

"Well, children, I was waiting on the veranda, obeying orders like a good girl, when, in the
dim light I saw a man mount a stool and look into the room. He was very much interested. I
crept up quite close to him without his knowing it. I heard him mutter to himself something
about a 'weak kneed fool.' Then he drew a revolver. He looked quite determined and heroic"--she
giggled reminiscently--"so I kicked the stool out from under him! About that time there was
a most terrific crash, and somebody came out through the window."

"But your cheek, your hair--"

"I tried to hold him, but he was too strong for me. He hit me in the face, wrenched himself
free, and ran. That was all; except that he dropped the pistol, and I'm going to keep it as
a trophy."

Keith was looking at her, deep in thought.

"I don't understand," he said slowly. "Who could it have been?"

Mrs. Sherwood shook her head.

"Somebody about to shoot a pistol; that's all I know. I couldn't see his face."

"Whoever it was, you saved one or both of us," said Keith, "there's no doubt in my mind of
that. Let's see the pistol."

It proved to be one of the smaller Colt's models, about 31 calibre, cap and ball, silver plated,
with polished rosewood handles, and heavily engraved with scrollwork. Turning it over, Keith
finally discovered on the bottom of the butt frame two letters scratched rudely, apparently
with the point of a knife. He took it closer to the light.

"I have it," said he. "Here are the letters C.M."

"Charles Morrell!" cried both women in a breath.

At this moment appeared Krafft, somewhat out of wind, followed by the surly and reluctant proprietor
from whom the place took its name. Jake had been liberally paid to keep himself and his staff
out of the way. Now finding that he was not wanted, he promptly disappeared.

"Let's get to the bottom of this thing," said Keith decisively. "If those are really meant
for Morrell's initials, what was he doing here?"

"Mrs. Morrell came out with me," put in Nan.

"Jake told me there was to be a supper party later," said Krafft.

"It's clear enough," contributed Mrs. Sherwood. "The whole thing is a plot to murder or do
worse. I've been through '50 and '51, and I know."

"I can't believe yet that Sansome--" said Keith doubtfully.

"Oh, Sansome is merely a tool, I don't doubt," replied Mrs. Sherwood.

"I can find out to-morrow from Mex Ryan who sent the note," said Krafft.

"Let's get out of this horrible place!" cried Nan with a convulsive shiver.

Again they had great difficulty in finding any one to get their rigs, but finally repeated
calls brought the hostler and Jake himself. The latter made some growl about payment for the
entertainment, but at this Keith turned on him with such concentrated fury that he muttered
something and slouched away. It was agreed that Krafft should conduct Mrs. Sherwood. They clambered
into the two buggies and drove away.

LXXVII

The horse plodded slowly down the gravelled drive of the road house and turned into the main
highway. It was very dark on earth, and very bright in the heavens. The afternoon fog had cleared
away, dissipated in the warm air from the sand hills, for the day had been hot. Overhead flared
thousands of stars, throwing the world small. Nan, shivering in reaction, nestled against her
husband. He drew her close. She rested her cheek against his shoulder and sighed happily. Neither
spoke.

At first Keith's whole being was filled with rage. His mind whirled with plans for revenge.
On the morrow he would hunt down Morrell and Sansome. At the thought of what he would do to
them, his teeth clamped and his muscles stiffened. Then he became wholly preoccupied with Nan's
narrow escape. His quick mind visualized a hundred possibilities--suppose he had gone on Durkee's
expedition? Suppose Mex Ryan had not happened to remember his name? Suppose Mrs. Sherwood and
Krafft had not found him? Suppose they had been an hour later? Suppose--He leaned over tenderly
to draw the lap robe closer about her. She had stopped shivering and was nestling contentedly
against him.

But gradually the storm in Keith's soul fell. The great and solemn night stood over against
his vision, and at last he could not but look. The splendour of the magnificent skies, the
dreamy peace of the velvet-black earth lying supine like a weary creature at rest--these two
simple infinities of space and of promise took him to themselves. An eager glad chorus of frogs
came from some invisible pool. The slithering sound of the sand dividing before the buggy wheels
whispered. Every once in a while the plodding horse sighed deeply.

With the warm cozy feel of the woman, his woman, in the hollow of his arm, his spirit stilled
and uplifted by the simple yet august and eternal things before him, Keith fell into inchoate
rumination. The fever of activity in the city, the clash of men's interests, greeds, and passions,
the tumult and striving, the sweat and dust of the arena fell to nothing about his feet. He
cleared his vision of the small necessary unessentials, and stared forth wide-eyed at the big
simplicities of life--truth as one sees it, loyalty to one's ideal, charity toward one's beaten
enemy, a steadfast front toward one's unbeaten enemy, scorn of pettiness, to be unafraid. Unless
the struggle is for and by these things, it is useless, meaningless. And one's possessions--Keith's
left arm tightened convulsively. He had come near to losing the only possession worth while.
At the pressure Nan stirred sleepily.

"Are we there, dear?" she inquired, raising her head.

Keith had reined in the horse, and was peering into the surrounding darkness. He laughed.

"No, we seem to be here," he replied, "And I'm blest if I know where 'here' is! I've been day-dreaming!"

"I believe I've been asleep," confessed Nan.

They both stared about them, but could discern nothing familiar in the dim outlines of the
hills. Not a light flickered.

"Perhaps if you'd give the horse his head, he'd take us home. I've heard, they would," suggested
Nan.

"He's had his head completely for the last two hours. That theory is exploded. We must have
turned wrong after leaving Jake's Place."

"Well, we're on a road. It must go somewhere."

Keith, with some difficulty, managed to awaken the horse. It sighed and resumed its plodding.

"I'm afraid we're lost," confessed Keith.

"I don't much care," confessed Nan.

"He seems to be a perfectly safe horse," said he.

By way of answer to this she passed her arms gently about his neck and bent his lips to hers.
The horse immediately stopped.

"Seems a fairly intelligent brute, too," observed Keith, after a few moments.

"Did you ever see so many stars?" said she.

The buggy moved slowly, on through the night. They did not talk. Explanations and narrative
could wait until the morrow--a distant morrow only dimly foreseen, across this vast ocean of
night. All sense of tune or direction left them; they were wandering irresponsibly, without
thought of why, as children wander and get lost. After a long time they saw a silver gleam
far ahead and below them.

"That must be the bay," said Keith. "If we turn to the right we ought to get back to town."

"I suppose so," said Nan.

A very long time later the horse stopped short with an air of finality, and refused absolutely
to proceed. Keith descended to see what was the matter.

"The road seems to end here," he told her. "There's a steep descent just ahead."

"What now?"

"Nothing," he replied, climbing back into the buggy.

The horse slumbered profoundly. They wrapped the lap robe around themselves. For a tune they
whispered little half-forgotten things to each other. The pauses grew longer and longer. With
an effort she roused herself to press her lips again to his. They, too, slept. And as dawn
slowly lighted the world, they must have presented a strange and bizarre silhouette atop the
hill against the paling sky--the old sagging buggy, the horse with head down and ears adroop,
the lovers clasped in each other's arms.

