"I chose a religious career when quite a boy, and, when I was ready for college, I was much
pleased. I finished at Shaw University at Raleigh, took a year's study at Columbia University
in New York and then finished a religious course at the Bishop Payne Divinity School at Petersburg,
Virginia, where most of the colored clergymen of the Episcopal Church are finished. After I
felt that I was fairly well fitted to begin my clerical work, I chose South Carolina as my field.

"My first assignment was at Waccamaw Neck, a little below Georgetown, S.C., and a big industrial
center. There the Negro population is keen for wine and whiskey. One of the men whom I was
interested in, was pretty tipsy when I called, and, as I sat and talked with him, he said:
'You're drunk, too.' This surprised me, and I asked him why he thought so. 'Well, you got your
vest and collar on backwards, so you must be drunk!'

"Since, I have had pastorates at Aiken, Peak, Rock Hill, and Walterboro. From Walterboro I
came to Columbia as pastor of St. Anna's Episcopal Church and the missions of Ann's at New
Brookland and St. Thomas at Eastover. I presume I have done pretty well in this field, since
the Rt. Rev. Bishop Kirkman G. Finlay, D.D., appointed me arch-deacon for Negro work in upper
South Carolina.

"As I was coming away from the Bishop's office, I was accompanied by another colored rector,
who had very short legs. I am six feet, four inches in height, and he looked up at me as we
walked along and asked quizzically: 'How long should a man's legs be?' I smiled and told him
I thought, perhaps, every man should have legs long enough to reach to the ground. Yes, of
course, we laughed at each other, but my argument won, because Bishop Finlay is about six feet,
three inches, and I told my short friend: 'When Bishop Finlay and I talk, we are able to look
each other in the eye on the level.'

"I married Susan McMahan, a colored school teacher, and the Lord has blessed us with a son,
John B. Jr., a fine wood-worker, like his grandfather was, and two sweet daughters. Alice,
the older one, is a teacher in the public schools of Columbia and Annie is a student. Our home
life has always been pleasant and unusually sunny.

"I had one very humorous experience three years ago when I was invited to deliver an address
near Mount Olive, N.C., to a convention of young people. Arriving about 10 o'clock that day,
I was met by a citizen who told me he was assigned to introduce me that evening. As we rode
along, I cautioned him not to boost me too highly. He said little.

"When the big, and, I may say, expectant audience was seated that night, he arose and seemed
much embarrassed, ultimately saying: 'Ladies and gentlemen, I have an unpleasant duty to perform
this evening.' Then, pointing at me, he went on: 'I don't know this man, much. Fact is, I only
know two things about him. One is, he has never been in jail; and the other is, I never could
figure why.'

"No, I am not related to the late Robert Bruce Elliott by ties of consanguinity. He was successively
twice a member of Congress from South Carolina, and a member and Speaker of the South Carolina
House of Representatives in 1876. Perhaps these honors came to him because he had a good education
before he met the opportunity for service.

"When I think of the '60's-'70's period, I am surprised that recent slaves, suddenly placed
in administrative positions of honor and trust, did as well as they did.

"In the seventy-two years since slavery, I have noted much improvement along the road, and
I am sure that our nation has far less discord now, than it had when I was a small lad. And,
when one can note progress in our march toward the light, I guess that ought to be sufficient
for my optimism."

"I was born on June 20th and I remember when the war broke out, for I was about five years
old. We lived in Spartanburg County not far from old Cherokee ford. My father was Emanuel Elmore,
and he lived to be about 90 years old.

"My marster was called by everybody, Col. Elmore, and that is all that I can remember about
his name. When he went to the war I wanted to go with him, but I was too little. He joined
the Spartanburg Sharp Shooters. They had a drill ground near the Falls. My pa took me to see
them drill, and they were calling him Col. Elmore then. When I got home I tried to do like
him and everybody laughed at me. That is about all that I remember about the war. In those
days, children did not know things like thay do now, and grown folks did not know as much either.

"I used to go and watch my father work. He was a moulder in the Cherokee Iron Works, way back
there when everything was done by hand. He moulded everything from knives and forks to skillets
and wash pots. If you could have seen pa's hammer, you would have seen something worth looking
at. It was so big that it jarred the whole earth when it struck a lick. Of course it was a
forge hammer, driven by water power. They called the hammer 'Big Henry'. The butt end was as
big as an ordinary telephone pole.

"The water wheel had fifteen or twenty spokes in it, but when it was running it looked like
it was solid. I used to like to sit and watch that old wheel. The water ran over it and the
more water came over, the more power the wheel gave out.

"At the Iron Works they made everything by hand that was used in a hardware store, like nails,
horse shoes and rims for all kinds of wheels, like wagon and buggy wheels. There were moulds
for everything no matter how large or small the thing to be made was. Pa could almost pick
up the right mould in the dark, he was so used to doing it. The patterns for the pots and kettles
of different sizes were all in rows, each row being a different size. In my mind I can still
see them.

"Hot molten iron from the vats was dipped with spoons which were handled by two men. Both spoons
had long handles, with a man at each handle. The spoons would hold from four to five gallons
of hot iron that poured just like water does. As quick as the men poured the hot iron in the
mould, another man came along behind them and closed the mould. The large moulds had doors
and the small moulds had lids. They had small pans and small spoons for little things, like
nails, knives and forks, When the mould had set until cold, the piece was prized out.

"Pa had a turn for making covered skillets and fire dogs. He made them so pretty that white
ladies would come and give an order for a 'pair of dogs', and tell him how they wanted them
to look. He would take his hammer and beat them to look just that way.

"Rollers pressed out the hot iron for machines and for special lengths and things that had
to be flat. Railroad ties were pressed out in these rollers. Once the man that handled the
hot iron to be pressed through these rollers got fastened in them himself. He was a big man.
The blood flew out of him as his bones were crushed, and he was rolled into a mass about the
thickness and width of my hand. Each roller weighed about 2,000 pounds.

"The man who got killed was named Alex Golightly. He taught the boys my age how to swim, fish
and hunt. His death was the worst thing that had happened in the community. The man who worked
at the foundry, made Alex a coffin. It had to be made long and thin because he was mashed up
so bad. In those days coffins were nothing but boxes anyway, but Alex's coffin was the most
terrible thing that I have ever seen. I reckon if they had had pretty coffins then like they
do now, folks would have bought them to sleep in.

"Hundreds went to Alex's funeral, white and black, to see that long narrow coffin and the grave
which was dug to fit it. On the way to the graveyard, negroes sang songs, for Alex was a good
man. They carried him to the Cherokee graveyard on the old Smith Ford Road, and there they
buried him. My father helped to build the coffin and he helped haul him to the graveyard. Pa
worked at the Iron Foundry until he was very old. He worked there before I was ever born.

"My father was sold four times during slavery. When he was brought to Virginia he was put on
the block and auctioned off for $4,000. He said that the last time he was sold he only brought
$1,500. He was born in Alabama. When he was bought he was carried from Alabama to Virginia.
It was Col. Elmore who took him. He wanted to go to Alabama again, so Col. Elmore let a speculator
take him back and sell him. He stayed there for several years and got homesick for South Carolina.
He couldn't get his marster to sell him back here, so he just refugeed back to Col. Elmore's
plantation. Col. Elmore took him back and wouldn't let anybody have him.

"Pa married twice, about the same time. He married Dorcas Cooper, who belonged to the Coopers
at Staunton Military Academy. I was the first child born in Camden. She had sixteen children.
I was brought to Spartanburg County when I was little. Both ma and pa were sold together in
Alabama. The first time pa came to South Carolina he married a girl called Jenny. She never
had any children. When he went to Alabama, Dorcas went with him, but Jenny stayed with Col.
Elmore. Of course, pa just jumped the broom for both of them.

"When pa left Alabama to refugee back, he had to leave Dorcas. They did not love their marster
anyway. He put Dorcas up on the block with a red handkerchief around her head and gave her
a red apple to eat. She was sold to a man whose name I have forgotten. When they herded them
she got away and was months making her way back to South Carolina. Those Africans sure were
strong. She said that she stayed in the woods at night. Negroes along the way would give her
bread and she would kill rabbits and squirrels and cook and eat in the woods. She would get
drunk and beat any one that tried to stop her from coming back. When she did get back to Col.
Elmore's place, she was lanky, ragged and poor, but Col. Elmore was glad to see her and told
her he was not going to let anybody take her off. Jenny had cared so well for her children
while she was off, that she liked her. They lived in the same house with pa till my mother died.

"Col. Elmore said that negroes who were from Virginia and had African blood could stand anything.
He was kind to ma. He fed her extra and she soon got fat again. She worked hard for Col. Elmore,
and she and pa sure did love him. One time a lot of the negroes in the quarter got drunk and
ma got to fighting all of them. When she got sobered up she was afraid that Col Elmore was
going to send her back to Alabama; so she went and hid in the woods. Pa took food to her. In
about a month Col. Elmore asked where she was, and pa just looked sheepish and grinned. Col.
Elmore told pa to go and bring her back, for he said he was tired of having his rations carried
to the woods; so ma came home. She had stayed off three months. She never felt well anymore,
and she died in about three more months. Pa and Jenny kept us till we got big and went off
to ourselves.

"Jenny was born and raised in South Carolina, and she was good to everybody and never fought
and went on like ma did. Ma liked her and would not let anybody say anything against her. She
was good to pa till he died, a real old man. Jenny never had any children. She was not old
when she died, but just a settled woman. We felt worse over her death than we did over ma's,
because she was so good to us and had cared for us while ma and pa were in Alabama; then she
was good to us after Dorcas died and when she hid in the woods.

"It seems that folks are too tender now. They can't stand much. My ma could stand more than
I can. My children can't stand what I can right now."

  =Source:= Emanuel Elmore (77). I was
just a little yearlin child den, I say. Been bout six years old in
slavery time. Well, I'll say dat I bout 80 some odds, but I can' never
seem to get dem odds together. I was a big little girl stayin in old
Massa yard in dem days, but I wasn' big enough to do nothin in de house
no time. My old Massa been Anthony Ross en he had set my age down in de
Bible, but my old Missus, she dead en I know dem chillun wouldn' never
know whe' to say dat Bible at dese days. Old Miss, she been name Matt
Ross. I wish somebody could call up how long de slaves been freed cause
den dey could call up my age fast as I could bat my eyes. Say, when de
emancipation was, I been six years old, so my mammy tell me. Don' know
what to say dat is, but I reckon it been since freedom."

"I been born en bred right over yonder to dat big patch of oak trees bout dat house what you
see after you pass de white people church cross de creek dere. De old man Anthony Ross, he
been have a good mind to his colored people all de time. Yes, mam, my white folks was proud
of dey niggers. Um, yes'um, when dey used to have company to de big house, Miss Ross would
bring dem to de door to show dem us chillun. En my blessed, de yard would be black wid us chillun
all string up dere next de door step lookin up in dey eyes. Old Missus would say, 'Ain' I got
a pretty crop of little niggers comin on?' De lady, she look so please like. Den Miss Ross
say, 'Do my little niggers want some bread to gnaw on?' En us chillun say, 'Yes'um, yes'um,
we do.' Den she would go in de pantry en see could she find some cook bread to hand us. She
had a heap of fine little niggers, too, cause de yard would be black wid all different sizes.
Won' none of dem big enough to do nothin. No, mam, dey had to be over 16 year old fore old
Massa would allow dem to work cause he never want to see his niggers noways stunt up while
dey was havin de growin pains. Den when dey was first grow up, dey would give some of dem a
house job en would send de others in de field to mind de cows en de sheep en bring dem up.
Wouldn' make dem do no heavy work right to start wid. But dem what was older, dey had to work
in de field. I reckon dey would be workin just bout like dey is now from sunrise in de mornin
till sunset in de evenin."

"Yes, honey, I been come here under a blessin cause my white folks never didn' let dey colored
people suffer no time. Always when a woman would get in de house, old Massa would let her leave
off work en stay dere to de house a month till she get mended in de body way. Den she would
have to carry de child to de big house en get back in de field to work. Oh, dey had a old woman
in de yard to de house to stay dere en mind all de plantation chillun till night come, while
dey parents was workin. Dey would let de chillun go home wid dey mammy to spend de night en
den she would have to march dem right back to de yard de next mornin. We didn' do nothin, but
play bout de yard dere en eat what de woman feed us. Yes'um, dey would carry us dere when de
women would be gwine to work. Be dere fore sunrise. Would give us three meals a day cause de
old woman always give us supper fore us mammy come out de field dat evenin. Dem bigger ones,
dey would give dem clabber en boil peas en collards sometimes. Would give de little babies
boil pea soup en gruel en suck bottle. Yes, mam, de old woman had to mind all de yearlin chillun
en de babies, too. Dat all her business was. I recollects her name, it been Lettie. Would string
us little wooden bowls on de floor in a long row en us would get down dere en drink just like
us was pigs. Oh, she would give us a iron spoon to taste wid, but us wouldn' never want it.
Oh, my Lord, I remember just as good, when we would see dem bowls of hot ration, dis one en
dat one would holler, 'dat mine, dat mine.' Us would just squat dere en blow en blow cause
we wouldn' have no mind to drink it while it was hot. Den we would want it to last a long time,
too. My happy, I can see myself settin dere now coolin dem vitals (victuals)."

"Like I speak to you, my white folks was blessed wid a heap of black chillun, but den dere
been a odd one in de crowd what wasn' noways like dem others. All de other chillun was black
skin wid dis here kinky hair en she was yellow skin wid right straight hair. My Lord, old Missus
been mighty proud of her black chillun, but she sho been touches bout dat yellow one. I remember,
all us chillun was playin round bout de step one day whe' Miss Ross was settin en she ax dat
yellow child, say, 'Who your papa?' De child never know no better en she tell her right out
exactly de one her mammy had tell her was her papa. Lord, Miss Ross, she say, 'Well, get off
my step. Get off en stay off dere cause you don' noways belong to me.' De poor child, she cry
en she cry so hard till her mammy never know what to do. She take en grease her en black her
all over wid smut, but she couldn' never trouble dat straight hair off her noway. Dat how-come
dere so much different classes today, I say. Yes, mam, dat whe' dat old stain come from."

"My mammy, she was de housewoman to de big house en she say dat she would always try to mind
her business en she never didn' get no whippin much. Yes, mam, dey was mighty good to my mother,
but dem other what never do right, dey would carry dem to de cow pen en make dem strip off
dey frock bodies clean to de waist. Den dey would tie dem down to a log en paddle dem wid a
board. When dey would whip de men, de boards would often times have nails in dem. Hear talk
dey would wash dem wid dey blood. Dat first hide dey had, white folks would whip it off dem
en den turn round en grease dem wid tallow en make dem work right on. Always would inflict
de punishment at sunrise in de mornin fore dey would go to work. Den de women, dey would force
dem to drop dey body frock cross de shoulders so dey could get to de naked skin en would have
a strap to whip dem wid. Wouldn' never use no board on de women. Oh, dey would have de lot
scatter bout full of dem what was to get whip on a mornin."

"You see, de colored people couldn' never go nowhe' off de place widout dey would get a walkin
ticket from dey Massa. Yes, mam, white folks would have dese pataroller walkin round all bout
de country to catch dem colored people dat never had no walkin paper to show dem. En if dey
would catch any of dem widout dat paper, dey back would sho catch scissors de next mornin."

"Well, I don' know as de white folks would be meanin to kill any of dey niggers, but I hear
talk dey would whip dem till dey would die some of de time en would bury dem in de night. Couldn'
bury dem in de day cause dey wouldn' have time. When dey would be gwine to bury dem, I used
to see de lights many a time en hear de people gwine along singin out yonder in dem woods just
like dey was buryin buzzards. Us would set down en watch dem gwine along many a night wid dese
great big torches of fire. Oh, dey would have fat lightwood torches. Dese here big hand splinters.
Had to carry dem along to see how to walk en drive de wagon to haul de body. Yes, child, I
been here long enough to see all dat in slavery time. All bout in dese woods, you can find
plenty of dem slavery graves dis day en time. I can tell bout whe' dere one now. Yes, mam,
dere one right over yonder to de brow of de hill gwine next to Mr. Claussens. Can tell dem
by de head boards dere. Den some of de time, dey would just drop dem anywhe' in a hole along
side de woods somewhe' cause de people dig up a skull right out dere in de woods one day en
it had slavery mark on it, dey say. Right over dere cross de creek in dem big cedars, dere
another slavery graveyard. People gwine by dere could often hear talk en couldn' never see
nothin, so dey tell me. Hear, um--um--um, en would hear babies cryin all bout dere, too. No'um,
can' hear dem much now cause dey bout to be wearin out. I tell you, I is scared every time
I go along dere. Some of dem die wicked, I say." I had tell Miss Sue dat I would be keepin
a eye out dat door dere en when I is see a car stop up to de house, I would try en make it
up dere dis mornin. Yes, mam, Miss Sue tell me you was comin today en I promise her I would
be up dere, but I ain' been feelin so much to speak bout dis mornin. Den you see, I know I
gwine be obliged to run down to de woods en fetch me up some wood en kindlin fore night fall.
I been 'spect to make Koota break me up some splinters, but he ain' no count worth nothin.
Yes, mam, he my grandson. Cose I tries to knock bout somewhe' en let me get out in de cotton
patch, I can put in a good sturdy job any day. You see, my eyes does be pretty good cause dey
got on dey second glove, I say. Can see good to my age. But oh, my Lord, right in my chest
here, it does thump sometimes just like a drum beatin in dere en I can' never stand to hurry
en walk hard no more dese days."

"No, mam, it don' bother me noways to leave dat door open. I keeps it dat way bout all de time,
so as I can look out en see what gwine along de road dere. What de matter, honey, you don'
loves to smell dem chitlin I got boilin dere on de stove? I hear some people say dey can' stand
no chitlin scent nowhe' bout dem, but I loves dem so much dat it does make my mouth run water
to think bout how me en Koota gwine enjoy dem dis evenin. No, mam, us don' never eat us heavy
meal till dat sun start gwine down behind dem trees cross de creek yonder. You see, I does
keep some 'tatoes roastin dere in de coals on de hearth en if us belly sets up a growlin twixt
meals, us just rakes a 'tatoe out de ashes en breaks it open en makes out on dat. My God, child,
I think bout how I been bless dat I ain' never been noways scornful bout eatin chitlins. Yes,
mam, when I helps up dere to de house wid hog killin, Mr. Moses, he does always say for me
to carry de chitlin home to make me en Koota a nice pot of stew."

"I tellin you, when us been chillun comin up, people sho never live like dey do dis day en
time. Oh, I can remember just as good when I used to go dat Hopewell Presbyterian Church cross
de creek dere. Yes, mam, dat been de white people slavery church en dat dey slavery graveyard
what settin right dere in front de church, too. Dat sho a old, old slavery time church, I say.
Massa Anthony Ross would make us go dere to preachin every Sunday en dey was mighty strict
bout us gwine to prayer service, too. Us would go up dem steps in dat little room, what been
open out on de front piazza to de church, en set up in de gallery overhead en de white folks
let down dere below us. Yes, mam, dat whe' de colored people went to church in dem days en
some of dem go dere till dey die cause dat whe' dey been join de church. Some of dem does go
dere often times dese days, too, when de white people axes dem to sing to dey church. I remember,
when I been baptize dere, I was just a little small child. Oh, de white preacher baptized all
us little niggers dere. Old Massa, he tell all his hands to carry dey chillun up dere en get
dem baptized. Oh, my happy, dey been fix us up dat day. Put on us clean homespuns en long drawers,
dat been hang down round us ankles like boots, en all us get a new bonnet dat day. I recollects,
dey would march us right up to de front of de church en de preacher would come down to whe'
we was standin wid a basin of water in one hand en a towel in de other hand. He would take
one of us chillun en lay he wet hand on dey head en say, 'I baptize dee in de name of, etc.'
Den dat one would have to get back en another one would step up for dey turn. De preacher,
he would have a big towel to wipe his hands wid en every child's mammy would be standin right
behind hind dem wid a rag to wipe de (drain) dren water out dey eyes."

"Oh, my Lord, when de Yankees come through dere, I hear dem say it was de Republicans. Mr.
Ross had done say dat he hear talk dat dey was comin through en he tell his niggers to hurry
en hide all de plantation rations. Yes, mam, dey dig cellars under de colored people houses
en bury what meat en barrels of flour dey could en dat what dey couldn' get under dere, dey
hide it up in de loft. Mr. Ross say, 'Won' none of dem damn Yankees get no chance to stick
dey rotten tooth in my rations.' We say, 'Ma, you got all dese rations here en we hungry.'
She say, 'No, dem ration belong to boss en you chillun better never bother dem neither.' Den
when Mr. Ross had see to it dat dey had fix everything safe, he take to de swamp. Dat what
my mammy say cause he know dey wasn' gwine bother de womens. Lord, when dem Yankees ride up
to de big house, Miss Ross been scared to open her mouth cause de man was in de swamp. No,
child, dey didn' bother nothin much, but some of de rations dey get hold of. Often times, dey
would come through en kill chickens en butcher a cow up en cook it right dere. Would eat all
dey wanted en den when dey would go to leave, dey been call all de little plantation niggers
to come dere en would give dem what was left. Oh, Lord, us was glad to get dem vitals, too.
Yes, mam, all dey had left, dey would give it to de poor colored people. Us been so glad, us
say dat us wish dey would come back again. Den after dey had left us plantation, dey would
go some other place where dere was another crowd of little niggers en would left dem a pile
of stuff, too. Old Massa, he been stay in de swamp till he hear dem Yankees been leave dere
en den he come home en would keep sendin to de colored people houses to get a little bit of
his rations to a time. Uncle Solomon en Sipp en Leve, dey been eat much of boss' rations dey
wanted cause dey been know de Yankees was comin back through to free dem. But my mammy, she
was a widow woman en old man Anthony Ross never left nothin to her house."

"I tell you, honey, some of de colored people sho been speak praise to dem Yankees. I don'
know how-come, but dey never know no better, I say. Dey know en dey never know. One old man
been ridin one of dese stick horses en he been so glad, he say, 'Thank God! Thank God!" How
you is? How Miss Sue gettin along over dere to Marion? I hope she satisfied, but dere ain'
nowhe' can come up to restin in your own home, I say. No, Lord, people own home don' never
stop to cuss dem no time. Dere Koota's mamma all de time does say, 'Ma, ain' no need in you
en Booker stayin over dere by yourself. Come en live wid us.' I say, 'No, child. Father may
have, sister may have, brother may have, en chillun may have, but blessed be he dat have he
own.' I tell all my chillun I rather stay here under my own roof cause when I takes a notion,
I can go in en bake me a little hoecake en draw me a pot of coffee en set down to eat it in
satisfaction."

"After you was gone de other day, I thought bout right smart to speak to you, but when I gets
tired, I just get all fray up somehow. My sister, she come to see me Sunday en I had dem all
laughin bout what I say dat I had tell you. My sister, she make out like she don' know nothin
bout dem olden times. Her husband, he done gone en die en she out lookin round for another
one. Reckon dat what ails her. I tell her, I ain' see none nowhe' dat I would be pleased to
take in. But I don' care what she say, us sho been here in slavery time cause my mother didn'
have but one free born child en dat one come here a corpse."

"I remember, Ma used to tell we chillun bout how dey couldn' never do nothin in slavery time,
but what de white folks say dey could do. I say, 'If I been big enough in dem days, I would
sho a let out a fight for you.' You see, I was a little small child den en I never know no
better den to speak dat way."

"My mother, she was de house woman to de big house in slavery time, but she never didn' get
no money for what she been do. No, mam, white folks never didn' pay de poor colored people
no money in dat day en time. See, old boss would give dem everything dey had en provide a plenty
somethin to eat for dem all de time. Yes'um, all de niggers used to wear dem old Dutch shoes
wid de brass in de toes en de women, dey never didn' have nothin 'cept dem old coarse shoes
widout no linin. Couldn' never wear dem out. Yes'um, dey always give us a changin of homespuns,
so as to strip on wash day en put on a fresh one."

"Den I recollects we chillun used to ax us mammy whe' us come from en she say, 'I got you out
de hollow log.' Well, just like I tell you, slavery chillun had dey daddy somewhe' on de plantation.
Cose dey had a daddy, but dey didn' have no daddy stayin in de house wid dem. White folks would
make you take dat man whe' if you want him or no. Us chillun never didn' know who us daddy
been till us mammy point him out cause all us went in Massa Anthony Ross' name. Yes, mam, all
us had a different daddy, so my mammy say."

"Who dat come here wid you? Lord, dat don' look like no wife. How long you is been married,
honey? You ain' say so. Look like you is just bloomin, I say."

"Oh, I tell you, I see a heap of things in dem days, but I ain' got my studyin cap on right
now en I can' call up nothin right sharp. Us never know nothin bout us was gwine get free in
dat day en time. Us was same as brutes en cows back dere cause us been force to go by what
white man say all de time. Oh, dey would beat de colored people so worser till dey would run
away en stay in de swamp to save dey hide. But Lord a mercy, it never do no good to run cause
time dey been find you was gone, dey been set de nigger dog on you. Yes, mam, dey had some
of dese high dogs dat dey call hounds en dey could sho find you out, too. Oh, dem hounds would
sho get you. Don' care whe' you was hidin, dem dogs would smell you. If you been climb up a
tree, de dog would trail you right to de foot of dat tree en just stand up en howl at you.
Dey would stand right dere en hold you up de tree till some of de white folks been get dere
en tell you to come down out de tree. Den if you never do like dey say, dey would chop de tree
down en let you fall right in de dog's mouth. Would let de dog bite you en taste your blood,
so dey could find de one dey was lookin for better de next time. Yes, mam, white people would
let de dog gnaw you up en den dey would grease you en carry you home to de horse lot whe' dey
would have a lash en a paddle to whip you wid. Oh, dey would have a swarm of black people up
to de lot at sunrise on a mornin to get whip. Would make dem drop dey body frock en would band
dem down to a log en would put de licks to dem. Ma was whip twice en she say dat she stay to
her place after dat. I hear talk dey give some of dem 50 lashes to a whippin. Dat how it was
in slavery time. Poor colored people couldn' never go bout en talk wid dey neighbors no time
widout dey Massa say so. I say, 'Ma, if dey been try to beat me, I would a jump up en bite
dem.' She say, 'You would get double portion den.' Just on account of dat, ain' many of dem
slavery people knockin bout here now neither, I tell you. Dat first hide dey had, white folks
just took it off dem. I would a rather been dead, I say. I remember, we chillun used to set
down en ax Ma all bout dis en dat. Say, 'Ma, yunnah couldn' do nothin?' She say, 'No, white
people had us in slavery time.'

"My God a mercy, I think now de best time to live in cause I ain' gettin no beatin dese days.
If I had been big enough to get whip in slavery time, I know I would been dead cause I would
been obliged to fight dem back en dey would kill folks for dat in dem days. If anybody hurt
me, dey got to hurt back again, I say. Cose us had us task to do in dem days, but us never
didn' have to bother bout huntin no rations en clothes no time den like de people be burdened
wid dese days. I tell you, what you get in dese times, you got to paw for it en paw hard, but
ain' nobody else business whe' you do it or no."

"Oh, de young people, dey ain' nothin dis day en time. Ain' worth a shuck no time. De old ones
can beat dem out a hollow anywhe'. Ain' no chillun raise in dese days, I say. After freedom
come here, I know I been hired out to white folks bout all de time en, honey, I sho been put
through de crack. Lord, I had a rough time. Didn' never feel no rest. Dat how-come I ain' get
all my growth, I say." I sho nuff did ride wid de 'Red Shirts' fer Marse Hampton. Dar was two
other darkies what rid wid us. Dey is bof daed now. One was Jack Jones, and de t'othern I does
not recollect his name. Him and Jack is both daed. Dat leave me de onliest living one what
rid in de company.

"I rid in de company wid Marse Jimmie Young and he was de Cap'un. He live out yonder at Sardis
Church. Ev'ybody know Marse Jimmie. He ain't quite as aged yet as I bees. Mr. J.T. Sexton,
he rid from up around Cross Keys, he got de 'hole in de wall' and I calls on him yit, and us
talks over de olden days. Miss Bobo's husband, he rid in Marse Jimmie's company. (Mr. Preston
B. Bobo) Our company camped at de ole Brick church out whar de mansion set now. It has allus
been called de Lower Fairforest Baptist Church, whar de white folks still goes, 'cept de done
move de church down on de new road, further from de mansion and de ole graveyard. I lows dat
you knows I is speaking o' de new mansion--Mr. Emslie Nicholson's house on de forest at de
Shoals. I is got memory, but I ain't got no larning; dat I is proud of, kaise I is seed folks
wid larning dat never knowed nothing worth speaking about. All de way 'fru', I is done tuck
and stuck to my white folks--de Democratic white folks, dat I is.

"Sho was a pretty sight to see 'bout a hun'ded mens up on fine horses wid red shirts on. I
still sees dem in my mind clear as day. Our red shirts fastened wid a strong band 'round de
waist. Dar wasn't nar'y speck o' white to be seed no whars on 'em. Dey was raal heavy and strong.
Fact, dey was made from red flannel, and I means it was sho 'nough flannel, too. I had done
kept one o' mine here till times got hard and den I tuck and tore it up fer me a undershirt,
here past it been two winters when it got so cold.

"One night us sot up all night and kept a big fire. Next morning it was de biggest frost all
over de ground; but us never got one mite cold. De good white ladies of de community made our
red shirts fer us. I 'spects Marse Jimmie ken name some fer you.

"I got eve'y registration ticket in my house, and I still votes allus de democratic ticket.
I has longed to de Democratic club ever since de red shirt days and I has voted dat way all
de time. I was jes' turn't seventeen when I jined de Red Shirts and got into de Democratic
Club, and I has been in it ever since. It ain't gwine out neither.

"I sho seed Hampton speak from Dr. Culp's porch. I voted fer him. At dat time, I lived on de
Keenan place. Marse Jimmie Young, he de overseer fer Mr. Keenan. Mr. Charles Ray owns and lives
on it now. Dat brick church straight up de road from de Keenan place; straight as a bee line.
Dat whar us met most o' de time fer de Red Shirt gatherings. Our Red Shirt Club was called
de 'Fairforest' club atter de Lower Fairforest white folks Baptist church. De church has allus
sot on de banks o' Fairforest Creek. Atter us got organized, I used to tote our flag. I was
de onliest darky dat toted it.

"I is done handed you a few names: dey is all Democratic names. Lots of dem 'scapes my knowledge,
it has all been so long ago. Dar was Mr. Gilmer Greer. Miss Gilmer Blankenship what lives out
dar, she his niece. Mr. John Sims 'nother white man I members. Dar was lots o' companies in
dis county, but I does not recall how many.

"Captain Jimmie Young would allus notify when dar was to be a meeting. Us darkies dat 'longed
'ud go and tell de white mens to come to de church. Us met sometime right 'fo de 'lection and
all de companies come together at de ole courthouse dat stood right whar de new one is now.

"Robinson's Circus come to Union. De circus folks gib everbody a free ticket to de circus dat
'longed to de Democratic Club. Dey let all de scalawag niggers in fer registration tickets
dat de Republicans had done give dem to vote fer Chamberlain. Dem niggers wanted to go to de
circus wu'se dan dey wanted to do anything else. Dey never dre'mt dat dey was not a going to
git to vote like de carpetbaggers, and de scalawags had done tole dem to do. Fact is, dey never
much cared jes' since de got in de circus. Dem dat wanted de registration tickets back when
de come out, never seed nobody to git 'em from nohows. Robinson's Circus was so big dat dey
never showed it all in Union, but what dey had was out on McClure's field. It wasn't no houses
dar den, and, o' course, dar wasn't no mill no whar about Union in dem days. All de tents dat
was staked was staked in McClure's ole field over on 'Tosch' Branch. In dem days, dat field
was de biggest territory in de clear around Union. Atter dat, all de Red Shirts met on de facade
in front o' de courthouse. Mos' all de mens made a speech. Another darky sung a song like dis:
'Marse Hampton was a honest man; Mr. Chamberlain was a rogue'--Den I sung a song like dis:
'Marse Hampton et de watermelon, Mr. Chamberlain knawed de rine.' Us jest having fun den, kaise
us had done 'lected Marse Hampton as de new governor of South Ca'linia."

  =Source:= "Uncle Pen" Eubanks, Hampton Ave. Union, S.C. (age 83)
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. (5/4/37)

  Project #1655.
  W. W. Dixon,
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  LEWIS EVANS
  EX-SLAVE 96 YEARS

Lewis Evans lives on the lands of the estate of the late C.L. Smith, about ten miles southwest
of Winnsboro, S.C. The house is a two-room frame structure, with a chimney in the center. He
has the house and garden lot, free of rent, for the rest of his life, by the expressed wish
of Mr. Smith before his demise. The only other occupant is his wife, Nancy, who is his third
wife and much younger than Lewis. She does all the work about the home. They exist from the
produce of the garden, output of fowls, and the small pension Lewis receives. They raise a
pig each year. This gives them their meat for the succeeding year.

