HISTORY

                                  OF

                            THE EXPEDITION

                          UNDER THE COMMAND OF

                       CAPTAINS LEWIS AND CLARK,

                                   TO

                      THE SOURCES OF THE MISSOURI,

                                 THENCE

                       ACROSS THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS

                              AND DOWN THE

                   RIVER COLUMBIA TO THE PACIFIC OCEAN.

                   PERFORMED DURING THE YEARS 1804-5-6.

                             By order of the

                     GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

                         PREPARED FOR THE PRESS
                         BY PAUL ALLEN, ESQUIRE.
                            IN TWO VOLUMES.

                                VOL. I.

                             PHILADELPHIA

                  PUBLISHED BY BRADFORD AND INSKEEP; AND
                        ABM. H. INSKEEP, NEW YORK.
                           J. Maxwell, Printer
                                  1814.
                                             DAVID CALDWELL,
                                Clerk of the District of Pennsylvania.

                                PREFACE.

In presenting these volumes to the public, the editor owes equally to himself and to others,
to state the circumstances which have preceded the publication, and to explain his own share
in compiling them.

It was the original design of captain Lewis to have been himself the editor of his own travels,
and he was on his way towards Philadelphia for that purpose when his sudden death frustrated
these intentions. After a considerable and unavoidable delay, the papers connected with the
expedition were deposited with another gentleman, who, in order to render the lapse of time
as little injurious as possible, proceeded immediately to collect and investigate all the materials
within his reach.

Of the incidents of each day during the expedition, a minute journal was kept by captain Lewis
or captain Clark, and sometimes by both, which was afterwards revised and enlarged at the different
periods of leisure which occurred on the route. These were carefully perused in conjunction
with captain Clark himself, who was able from his own recollection of the journey, as well
as from a constant residence in Louisiana since his return, to supply a great mass of explanations,
and much additional information with regard to part of the route which has been more recently
explored. Besides these, recourse was had to the manuscript journals kept by two of the serjeants,
one of which, the least minute and valuable, has already been published. That nothing might
be wanting to the accuracy of these details, a very intelligent and active member of the party,
Mr. George Shannon, was sent to contribute whatever his memory might add to this accumulated
fund of information.

From these copious materials the narrative was sketched nearly in its present form, when other
pursuits diverted the attention of the writer, and compelled him to transfer his manuscript,
in its unfinished state, with all the documents connected with it, to the present editor, to
prepare them for the press and superintend the publication. That he may not seem to arrogate
any thing from the exertions of others, he should therefore state that, although the whole
work was thus submitted to his entire discretion, he found but little to change, and that his
labour has been principally confined to revising the manuscript, comparing it with the original
papers, and inserting such additional matter as appears to have been intentionally deferred
by the writer till the period of a more mature revisal. These circumstances, which would otherwise
be indifferent to the public, are mentioned merely to account for imperfections, which are
in some degree inseparable from any book of travels not written by the traveller. In a work
of pure description indeed, like the present, where the incidents themselves are the sole objects
of attraction, the part of an editor is necessarily subordinate, nor can his humble pretensions
aspire beyond the merit of rigid adherence to facts as they are stated to him. This has been
very diligently attempted, and for this, in its full extent, the editor deems himself responsible.

The present volumes, it will be perceived, comprise only the narrative of the journey. Those
parts of the work which relate to the various objects of natural history, observed or collected
during the journey, as well as the alphabets of the Indian languages, are in the hands of professor
Bartou, and will, it is understood, shortly appear.

To give still further interest to the work, the editor addressed a letter to Mr. Jefferson,
requesting some authentic memoirs of captain Lewis. For the very curious and valuable information
contained in his answer, the public, as well as the editor himself, owe great obligations to
the politeness and knowledge of that distinguished gentleman.

                                                       PAUL ALLEN.
PHILADELPHIA, January 1, 1814.

                       LIFE OF CAPTAIN LEWIS.

                                          Monticello, August 18, 1813.
SIR,

In compliance with the request conveyed in your letter of May 25, I have endeavoured to obtain,
from the relations and friends of the late governor Lewis, information of such incidents of
his life as might be not unacceptable to those who may read the narrative of his western discoveries.
The ordinary occurrences of a private life, and those also while acting in a subordinate sphere
in the army, in a time of peace, are not deemed sufficiently interesting to occupy the public
attention; but a general account of his parentage, with such smaller incidents as marked his
early character are briefly noted; and to these are added, as being peculiarly within my own
knowledge, whatever related to the public mission, of which an account is now to be published.
The result of my inquiries and recollections shall now be offered, to be enlarged or abridged
as you may think best; or otherwise to be used with the materials you may have collected from
other sources. Happily situated at home, with a wife and young family, and a fortune placing
him at ease, he left all to aid in the liberation of his country from foreign usurpations,
then first unmasking their ultimate end and aim. His good sense, integrity, bravery, enterprise,
and remarkable bodily powers, marked him as an officer of great promise; but he unfortunately
died early in the revolution. The chastisement they then received closed the history of their
wars, and prepared them for receiving the elements of civilization, which, zealously inculcated
by the present government of the United States, have rendered them an industrious, peaceable,
and happy people. About this time a circumstance occurred which, leading to the transaction
which is the subject of this book, will justify a recurrence to its original idea. I interested,
in obtaining that, M. de Simoulin, minister plenipotentiary of the empress at Paris, but more
especially the baron de Grimm, minister plenipotentiary of Saxe-Gotha, her more special agent
and correspondent there in matters not immediately diplomatic. Her permission was obtained,
and an assurance of protection while the course of the voyage should be through her territories.
Ledyard set out from Paris, and arrived at St. Petersburgh after the empress had left that
place to pass the winter, I think, at Moscow. His finances not permitting him to make unnecessary
stay at St. Petersburgh, he left it with a passport from one of the ministers; and at two hundred
miles from Kamschatka, was obliged to take up his winter quarters. He was preparing, in the
spring, to resume his journey, when he was arrested by an officer of the empress, who by this
time had changed her mind, and forbidden his proceeding. He was put into a close carriage,
and conveyed day and night, without ever stopping, till they reached Poland; where he was set
down and left to himself. The fatigue of this journey broke down his constitution; and when
he returned to Paris his bodily strength was much impaired. His mind, however, remained firm,
and he after this undertook the journey to Egypt. I received a letter from him, full of sanguine
hopes, dated at Cairo, the fifteenth of November, 1788, the day before he was to set out for
the head of the Nile; on which day, however, he ended his career and life: and thus failed
the first attempt to explore the western part of our northern continent.

In 1792, I proposed to the American Philosophical Society that we should set on foot a subscription
to engage some competent person to explore that region in the opposite direction; that is,
by ascending the Missouri, crossing the Stony mountains, and descending the nearest river to
the Pacific. Captain Lewis being then stationed at Charlottesville, on the recruiting service,
warmly solicited me to obtain for him the execution of that object. I told him it was proposed
that the person engaged should be attended by a single companion only, to avoid exciting alarm
among the Indians. This did not deter him; but Mr. Andre Michaux, a professed botanist, author
of the Flora Boreali-Americana, and of the Histoire des Chesnes d'Amerique, offering his services,
they were accepted. He received his instructions, and when he had reached Kentucky in the prosecution
of his journey, he was overtaken by an order from the minister of France, then at Philadelphia,
to relinquish the expedition, and to pursue elsewhere the botanical inquiries on which he was
employed by that government: and thus failed the second attempt for exploring that region.

Deeming it necessary he should have some person with him of known competence to the direction
of the enterprise, in the event of accident to himself, he proposed William Clarke, brother
of general George Rogers Clarke, who was approved, and, with that view, received a commission
of captain.

In April, 1803, a draught of his instructions was sent to captain Lewis, and on the twentieth
of June they were signed in the following form:

     "To Meriwether Lewis, esquire, captain of the first regiment of
     infantry of the United States of America:

     "Your situation as secretary of the president of the United States,
     has made you acquainted with the objects of my confidential message
     of January 18, 1803, to the legislature; you have seen the act they
     passed, which, though expressed in general terms, was meant to
     sanction those objects, and you are appointed to carry them into
     execution.

     "Instruments for ascertaining, by celestial observations, the
     geography of the country through which you will pass, have been
     already provided. Light articles for barter and presents among the
     Indians, arms for your attendants, say for from ten to twelve men,
     boats, tents, and other travelling apparatus, with ammunition,
     medicine, surgical instruments, and provisions, you will have
     prepared, with such aids as the secretary at war can yield in his
     department; and from him also you will receive authority to engage
     among our troops, by voluntary agreement, the number of attendants
     abovementioned; over whom you, as their commanding officer, are
     invested with all the powers the laws give in such a case.

     "As your movements, while within the limits of the United States,
     will be better directed by occasional communications, adapted to
     circumstances as they arise, they will not be noticed here. What
     follows will respect your proceedings after your departure from the
     United States.

     "Your mission has been communicated to the ministers here from
     France, Spain, and Great Britain, and through them to their
     governments; and such assurances given them as to its objects, as
     we trust will satisfy them. The country of Louisiana having been
     ceded by Spain to France, the passport you have from the minister
     of France, the representative of the present sovereign of the
     country, will be a protection with all its subjects; and that from
     the minister of England will entitle you to the friendly aid of any
     traders of that allegiance with whom you may happen to meet.

     "The object of your mission is to explore the Missouri river, and
     such principal streams of it, as, by its course and communication
     with the waters of the Pacific ocean, whether the Columbia, Oregan,
     Colorado, or any other river, may offer the most direct and
     practicable water-communication across the continent, for the
     purposes of commerce.

     "Beginning at the mouth of the Missouri, you will take observations
     of latitude and longitude, at all remarkable points on the river,
     and especially at the mouths of rivers, at rapids, at islands, and
     other places and objects distinguished by such natural marks and
     characters, of a durable kind, as that they may with certainty be
     recognised hereafter. The courses of the river between these points
     of observation may be supplied by the compass, the log-line, and by
     time, corrected by the observations themselves. The variations of
     the needle, too, in different places, should be noticed.

     "The interesting points of the portage between the heads of the
     Missouri, and of the water offering the best communication with the
     Pacific ocean, should also be fixed by observation; and the course
     of that water to the ocean, in the same manner as that of the
     Missouri.

     "Your observations are to be taken with great pains and accuracy;
     to be entered distinctly and intelligibly for others as well as
     yourself; to comprehend all the elements necessary, with the aid of
     the usual tables, to fix the latitude and longitude of the places
     at which they were taken; and are to be rendered to the war-office,
     for the purpose of having the calculations made concurrently by
     proper persons within the United States. Several copies of these,
     as well as of your other notes, should be made at leisure times,
     and put into the care of the most trust-worthy of your attendants
     to guard, by multiplying them against the accidental losses to
     which they will be exposed. A further guard would be, that one of
     these copies be on the cuticular membranes of the paper-birch, as
     less liable to injury from damp than common paper.

     "The commerce which may be carried on with the people inhabiting
     the line you will pursue, renders a knowledge of those people
     important. You will therefore endeavour to make yourself
     acquainted, as far as a diligent pursuit of your journey shall
     admit, with the names of the nations and their numbers;

     "The extent and limits of their possessions;

     "Their relations with other tribes or nations;

     "Their language, traditions, monuments;

     "Their ordinary occupations in agriculture, fishing, hunting, war,
     arts, and the implements for these;

     "Their food, clothing, and domestic accommodations;

     "The diseases prevalent among them, and the remedies they use;

     "Moral and physical circumstances which distinguish them from the
     tribes we know;

     "Peculiarities in their laws, customs, and dispositions;

