PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 159.

August 25th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

"What we have got to do," says Lord ROTHERMERE, "is to keep calm and mind our own business,
instead of worrying about the affairs of every other nation." It seems only fair to point out
that The Daily News thought of this as long ago as August, 1914.

* * *

Gooseberries the size of bantams' eggs, says a news item, won a prize at the Deeside Horticultural
Show. When we remember the giant gooseberries of a decade ago it rather looks as if the nation
were losing its nerve.

* * *

With reference to the messenger seen running in Whitehall the other day a satisfactory explanation
has now been given. He was doing it for the cinema.

* * *

The average Scot, says an Anti-Prohibition writer, cannot stand many drinks. Our experience
supports this view; but he can be stood a good many.

* * *

A picture-paper gossip states that Mr. CHURCHILL enjoys very good health. Just a touch of writer's
cramp now and then, of course.

* * *

In a recent riot in Londonderry, it is stated, a number of inoffensive neutrals were set upon
and beaten by rowdies of both factions. We have constantly maintained that Irish unity can
always be secured when there is something really worth uniting over.

* * *

A lighthouse is advertised for sale in The Times. It is said to be just the kind of residence
for a tall man with sloping shoulders.

* * *

A correspondent asks in the weekly press for a new name for charabancs. We wish we could think
there was any use in calling them names.

* * *

Seaside bathers are advised not to enter the water after a heavy meal. The seaside visitor
who could pay for such a meal would naturally not have enough left to pay for a bathing-machine.

* * *

A Thames bargee was knocked down by a taxi-cab at Kingston-on-Thames last week. A well-known
firm has offered to publish his remarks in fortnightly parts.

* * *

The West Dulwich man who struck a rate-collector on the head with a telephone claims credit
for finding some use for these instruments.

* * *

Sir ERIC DRUMMOND has purchased the largest hotel in Geneva on behalf of the League of Nations.
It is said that he has been taking lessons from Sir ALFRED MOND.

* * *

Following closely upon the announcement of the noiseless gun invented in New York comes the
news that they have now invented some sound-proof bacon for export to this country.

* * *

It is stated that the man who last week said he understood the Rent Act was eventually pinned
down by some friends and handed over to the care of his relatives.

* * *

According to a morning paper another Antarctic expedition is to be organised very shortly.
We understand that only those who can stand a northern wind on all four sides need apply.

* * *

It is reported that a poultry-farmer in the West of England is making a fortune by giving his
hens whisky to drink and then exporting their eggs to the United States.

* * *

A golf-ball was recently driven through the window of an express train near Knebworth. We are
informed however that the player who struck the ball still maintains that the engine-driver
deliberately ignored his shout of "Fore."

* * *

An amazing report reaches us from Yorkshire. It appears that a centenarian has been discovered
who is unable to read without glasses or even to walk to market once a week.

* * *

The unveiling of one of the largest Peace memorials in the country is to take place on Armistice
day this year. We hear that both the PREMIER and Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL have expressed a desire
to attend unless prevented by the War.

* * *

Smart furriers, declares a fashion-paper, are pushing Beveren blue rabbit as one of the chic
furs for the coming winter. The rabbit, our contemporary goes on to explain (superfluously,
as it seems to us), is naturally blue.

* * *

On a recent occasion a meeting of the Dolgelly Rural Council had to be postponed, the members
being absent hay-making. Parliament, on the other hand, has had to stop making hay owing to
the Members being away in the country.

* * *

The Ministry of Food states that the period of normal supplies seems to come round in cycles
of four years. Meanwhile the period of abnormal prices continues to come round in cycles of
once a week. A movement in favour of postponing the cycle of payment till we get the cycle
of plenty is not receiving adequate support from the provision trade.

* * *

Agricultural labourers near Peterborough have refused to work with Irishmen on the ground that
the latter are troublesome. We always said that sooner or later someone would come round to
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE'S view on this point.

* * *

A newspaper reports the case of a waiter who refused a tip. It is said that the gentleman who
offered it is making a slow recovery and may be able to take a little fish this week.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GROWTH OF THE SIDE-CAR.

    "MOTOR CARS, CYCLES, &c.

    ARGYLL.--2 Bedrooms and sitting-room, with attendance."--Scotch
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BRIGHTON ELECTRIC RAILWAY.

    PALACE PIER AND KEMP TOWN CARS EVERY FIVE YEARS."--Local Paper.

It is inferred that the Ministry of Transport has assumed control.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN APOLOGY TO THE BENCH.

Humbly addressed to T.E.S.

  If ever, where you hold the Seat of Doom,
    I stand, my Lord, before you at the Bar,
  And my forensic fame, a virgin bloom,
    Lies in your awful hands to make or mar,
  Let it not prejudice my case, I pray,
    If you should call to mind a previous meeting
  When on a champion course the other day
    I gave your Lordship four strokes and a beating.

  I own it savoured of contempt of court,
    Hinted of disrespect toward the Bench,
  That I should chuckle when your pitch was short
    Or smile to see you in the sanded trench;
  But Golf (so I extenuate my sin)
    Brings all men level, like the greens they putt on;
  One common bunker makes the whole world kin,
    And Bar may scrap with Beak, and I with SCR-TT-N.

  Nor did I give myself superior airs;
    I made allowance for defective sight;
  "The bandage which impartial Justice wears
    Leaves you," I said, "a stranger to the light;
  Habituated to the sword and scales,
    If you commit some pardonable blunder,
  If" (I remarked) "your nerve at moments fails
    With grosser ironmongery, where's the wonder?"

  So may the Law's High Majesty o'erlook
    My rash presumption; may the memory die
  Of how I won the match (and further took
    The liberty of mopping up the bye);
  Remember just a happy morning's round,
    Also the fact that this alleged old fogey
  Played at the last hole like a book and downed
    The barely human feat of Colonel Bogey.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

IF WE ALL TOOK TO MARGOTRY.

[Mrs. ASQUITH'S feuilleton, which for so many people has transformed Sunday into a day of unrest,
sets up a new method of autobiography, in which the protagonist is, so to speak, both JOHNSON
and BOSWELL too. Successful models being always imitated we may expect to see a general use
of her lively methods; and as a matter of fact I have been able already, through the use of
a patent futurist reading-glass (invented by Signer Margoni), to get glimpses of two forthcoming
reminiscent works of the future which, but for the chronique égoïstique of the moment might
never have been written, and certainly not in their present interlocutory shape.]

I.

FROM "FIRST AID TO LITERATURE."

By Edmund Gosse.

... Not the least interesting and delicate of my duties as a confidential adviser were connected
with a work of reminiscences which created some stir in the nineteen-twenties. How it came
about I cannot recollect, but it was thought that my poor assistance as a friendly censor of
a too florid exuberance in candour might not be of disservice to the book, and I accepted the
invitation. The volume being by no means yet relegated to oblivion's dusty shelves I am naturally
reluctant to refer to it with such particularity as might enable my argus-eyed reader to identify
it and my own unworthy share therein, and therefore in the following dialogue, typical of many
between the author and myself, I disguise her name under an initial. Quis custodiet? It would
be grotesque indeed if one whose special mission was to correct the high spirits of others
should himself fail in good taste.

Mrs. A. (laying down the MS. with a bang). I see nothing but blue pencil marks, and blue was
never my colour. Why are you so anxious that I should be discreet? Indiscretion is the better
part of authorship.

EDMUND (earnestly). It is your fame of which I am thinking. If you adopt my emendations you
will go down to history as the writer of the best book of reminiscences in English.

Mrs. A. (with fervour). I don't want to go down to history. I want to stay here and make it.
And you (with emotion)--you have cramped my style. I can't think why I asked you to help.

EDMUND. Everyone asks me to help. It is my destiny. I am the Muses' amicus curiæ.

Mrs. A. Oh, blow Latin! (Lighting two cigarettes at once) What's the good of reminiscences
of to-day, by me, without anything about L.G.?

EDMUND. Dear lady, it would never have done. Be reasonable. There are occasions when reticence
is imperative.

Mrs. A. Reticence! What words you use!

(Cætera desunt.)

II.

FROM "A WEEK IN LOVELY LUCERNE."

By D. Lloyd George.

... I do not say that the mountains hereabout are not more considerable than those of our own
beloved Wales, but as material to be employed in perorations they are far inferior. There is
not the requisite mist (which may symbolise ignorance or obstinacy or any temporary disturbance
or opposition), later to be dispelled by the strong beams of the sun (representing either progress
generally or prime-ministerial genius or pure Coalitionism). Other local features I felt, however,
I might find rhetorically useful, such as THORWALDSEN'S Lion, so noble, so--so leonine, but
doomed ever to adhere to the rock, how symbolic of a strong idealist unable to translate his
ameliorative plans into action! The old bridge too, uniting the two sides of the city, as one
can attempt to link Radicalism and Coalitionism--how long could it endure? And so on. One's
brain was never idle.

It was while we were at Lucerne that LORD RIDDELL and I had some of our most significant conversations.
I set them down just as they occurred, extenuating nothing and concealing nothing.

LORD RIDDELL (with emotion). You are in excellent form to-day. Lucerne now has two lions--one
of them free.

DAVID (surprised). I free? (Sadly) You forget that GIOLITTI is coming.

LORD RIDDELL. But that is nothing to you. Try him with your Italian and he will soon go.

DAVID. You are a true friend. You always hearten me.

LORD RIDDELL (with more emotion). But you are so wonderful, so wonderful! And now for to-day's
amusements. Where shall we go? Up Mount Pilatus or to WILLIAM TELL'S Chapel?

DAVID. There is something irresistible to a Welshman in the word chapel. Let us go there. And
WILLIAM TELL, was he not a patriot? Did he not defy the tyrant? I am sure that in his modest
conventicle I can think of a thousand eloquent things. Let us go there.

LORD RIDDELL. My hero! my dauntless hero!

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Even with a round of 73 in the morning Ray fell behind Vardon, who
    accomplished a remarkable round of 17 to lead the field."--Provincial
    Paper.

This is believed to be the first occasion on which any golfer has accomplished two holes in
one shot.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RABBITS GAME.

"Don't forget to say 'Rabbits' to-morrow," said Angela. Angela is aged nine and my younger
sister; I am thirteen and my name is Anne.

We both looked inquiringly at Father, and, as he didn't seem to remember, Angela in pained
surprise began to explain. "If you say 'Rabbits' before you say anything else on the first
day of a month you get a present during the month, but you mustn't say anything else first,
or you won't."

It all came out in one breath and, though it looks clear enough now, Father was very stupid.

"I dislike rabbits," he said, "and I am very busy; your Mother will probably be glad of them
for the servants."

The rebuke in Angela's eyes was severe. "We haven't got any rabbits," she said; "we are only
going to say 'Rabbits' to-morrow morning when we wake up and we thought you might like to do
the same."

"Oh, I should," said Father; "thank you very much, I won't forget." And he wrote "Rabbits"
down on his blotting-paper. "Now go and tell your Mother; she would like to say 'Rabbits' too,
I know."

That seemed to terminate the interview, so we left him; but altogether it was not very satisfactory.
You see, when we had "Bon-jour-Philippines," Father used to provide the presents; at least
that was some time ago; we haven't had any "Bon-jour-Philippines" lately. The last time we
did, Jack, that is my brother at Oxford, found one and split it with Father, and the next morning
he said, "Bon-jour-Philippine" first and then asked for a present. Father asked him what he
wanted, and he gave Father a letter that he had had that morning. Father got very angry and
said that it was a disgrace the way tailors allowed credit to young wasters nowadays. He didn't
say it quite like that, it was rather worse, and Mother said, "Hush, dear; remember the children,"
and Father said that they were all as bad and in the conspiracy to ruin him, and he went out
of the room and banged the door.

Mother told Jack that he should have chosen a better moment, and Jack owned he had made a mistake
and said that he ought to have got it in before Father had looked at the paper and seen the
latest news of LLOYD GEORGE. I don't quite know what he meant, but Father often talks about
LLOYD GEORGE, and he must be a beast.

I asked Jack later if he got his present, and he said that he had, but--and here he copied
Father's voice so well that I had to laugh--"It is the very last time, my boy; when I was at
Oxford I used to consider my Father, and I would have worked in the fields and earned money
sooner than have given him bills to pay." Jack said that he knew one of the dons at Oxford
who knew Father, and from what he said he thought that Father must have spent as long in the
fields as NEBUCHADNEZZAR did.

I remembered all this as I went to find mother about "Rabbits," and I wasn't quite sure that
we should get our present even if we did say it, so I told Angela, and she had a brilliant
idea. "We will make Father say 'Rabbits' and give him a present ourselves, and he is sure to
give us something in return." Angela is younger than I am, but she often thinks quite clever
things like that, and they come in very useful sometimes.

We went to the summer-house in the garden to make plans. First we thought what would be the
best present to give Father. Last Christmas we gave him a pipe, and he said that it was just
what he wanted; it cost ninepence and was made like a man's head, and you put the tobacco in
a hole in his hat.

Father lit it at once after breakfast, but two days after I saw Jakes the gardener smoking
it. We thought at first that he had stolen it, and I went to Father, but he said that Jakes
had thirteen children, and when a man was in trouble like that you ought to give up what you
valued most to try to make that man happy, and that Jakes was awfully pleased when he gave
him the pipe.

You see that made it very difficult, as we had to get something that Father would like and
Jakes too, as he still had thirteen children; and then I remembered that Mrs. Jakes had once
looked at a woollen jumper that I had on, and said that it would be just the thing for her
Mary Ann, who had a delicate chest, and Jakes would be sure to like what Mrs. Jakes liked,
or else he wouldn't have married her. Of course a jumper wasn't really the sort of thing that
Father could wear, but I thought he might wrap his foot up in it when he next had gout, and
besides I shouldn't be wanting it much more myself, as the summer was coming on.

Angela said that she thought that would do well, and she wouldn't mind giving Father her jumper
next month if he said "Rabbits," and it would do for Mrs. Jakes' next little girl.

So that was decided, and then we had to arrange the plan. The most important thing was for
us to wake before Father, so that we could wake him and remind him before he had time to say
anything else, and Angela remembered that Ellen, that's the housemaid, had an alarm clock,
which she used to set at a quarter to six each morning. We waited until Ellen had gone downstairs
and then took it and hid it in Angela's bed.

Next morning the clock went off. We were both rather frightened, and it was very cold and the
room looked funny, as the blinds hadn't been pulled up, but we put our dressing-gowns on. Then
Angela said that she had heard that if you woke a person who was walking in their sleep they
sometimes called out, so I took a pair of stockings from the basket that had just come back
from the wash to hold over Father's mouth while we woke him. They were waiting to be mended
and had a hole in them, but that didn't matter much, as I screwed them up tight, and then we
went into Father's room. They were both asleep, and Father had his mouth open all ready for
the stockings, which was very lucky, as I was wondering how I could get them in.

We crept up to the bed, and I know I shivered, and I think Angela did too, as I was holding
her hand. Then she called out "Boo" as loud as she could, and I stuffed the stockings into
Father's mouth, and then they both woke up, and everything went wrong.

Mother thought the house was on fire and screamed, and it made Angela begin to cry. I quite
forgot to tell Father to say "Rabbits," and just pressed the stockings further into his mouth.

Father struggled and made awful noises, and when he did get the stockings out the things he
said weren't a bit like "Rabbits," and the only thing that he did say that I could write down
here was that he thought he was going to be sick. The rest was dreadful.

We were both sent back to bed, and that morning as a punishment we were not allowed into the
dining-room until Father and Mother had finished their breakfast; and Angela, who often thinks
quite clever things, said that we had better not do "Rabbits" again for a good long time. But
after all it didn't matter much as the weather got a great deal colder, and I wore my jumper
a lot, and so did Angela.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS' NAMES.

          DAME'S DELIGHT.

  There was a Lady walked a wood;
  She never smiled, nor never could.
  One day a sunbeam from the South
  Kissed full her petulant proud mouth;
  She laughed, and there, beneath the trees,
  Fluttering in the April breeze,
  Spread tracts of blossom, green and white,
  Curtseying to the golden light--
  The broken laugh of Dame's Delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST LOVE AND LAST.

    [It is pointed out by a contemporary that the dressmaker's waxen model
    has quite lost her old insipid air. The latest examples of the
    modeller's art show the "glad eye" and features with which "any man
    might fall in love."]

  In the days when I started to toddle
    I loved with a frenzy sublime
  A dressmaker's beauteous model--
    I think I was three at the time;
  She was fair in the foolish old fashion,
    And they found me again and again
  With my nose in an access of passion
          Glued tight to the pane.

  But I thought they were gone past returning
    Till Time should go back on his tracks,
  Those days of a child's undiscerning
    But fervent devotion to wax;
  Could a heart, though admittedly restive,
    Recapture that innocent mood
  At sixty next birthday? I'm blest if
          I thought that it could.

  But Art, ever bent on progression,
    Has taken the model in hand,
  And brought in the line of succession
    A figure more pleasingly planned;
  Her eyes with the gladdest of glances,
    Her lips and her hair and her cheek
  Can puncture like so many lances
          A bosom of teak.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARD TIMES FOR HEROINES.

"Oh, Bertram," breathed Eunice as she glided into his arms, "if Ernest knew, what would he think?"

At this point of my story I admit that I was held up. I myself couldn't help wondering how
Ernest would regard the situation. He was a perfectly good husband and, personally, I preferred
him to Bertram the lover. I might get unpopular with my readers, however, if they suspected
this, so I continued:--

"Ernest can never appreciate you as I do, dearest," Bertram whispered hoarsely; "he is cold,
hard, indifferent--"

Again I paused. If Eunice had been the really nice girl I meant her to be she would have asked
Bertram what on earth he meant by saying such things about her husband, and would have told
him the shortest cut to the front-door. In which case she might never have got into print.

The fact is the poor heroine of fiction has a hard time of it nowadays. Someone ought to write
a treatise on "How to be Happy though a Heroine," or uphold her cause in some way. Twenty-five
years ago she lived in a halo of romance. Her wooers were tender, respectful and adoring; she
was never without a chaperon. Her love-story was conventional and ended in wedding bells. To-day--just
see how her position has altered. Generally she begins by being married already. Then her lover
comes along to place her in awkward predicaments and put her to no end of inconvenience, very
often only to make her realise that she prefers her husband after all. Or, on the other hand,
the modern writer does not mind killing off, on the barest pretext, a husband who is perfectly
sound in wind and limb and had never suffered from anything in his life until the lover appeared.
The poor girl will tell you herself that it isn't natural.

Then there is the compromising situation. Magazine editors clamour for it--in fiction, I mean.
We find the heroine flung on a desert island, with the one man above all others in the world
that she detests as her sole companion. It is rather rough on her, but often still more rough
on other people, as it may necessitate drowning the entire crew and passengers of a large liner
just in order to leave the couple alone for a while to get to know each other better. And not
until they find that they care for one another after all does the rescue party arrive. It will
cruise about, or be at anchor round the corner, for weeks and weeks, so that it can appear
on the horizon at the moment of the first embrace. This situation is so popular at present
that it is surprising that there are enough desert islands to go round.

Again, the lonely bungalow episode is pretty cheerless for the heroine. She accepts an apparently
harmless invitation to spend a week-end with friends in the country. When she arrives at the
station there is no one to meet her. After a course of desert islands this ought to arouse
her suspicions, but she never seems to benefit by experience. At the bungalow, reached in a
hired fly and a blinding snowstorm, she finds the whole household away. The four other week-end
guests, her host and hostess and their five children, the invalid aunt who resides with the
family, the three female servants and the boot-boy who lives in--all have completely vanished.
The only sign of life for miles is the hero standing on the doorstep looking bewildered and
troubled, as well he might, for he knows that he must spend the night in a snowstorm to avoid
compromising the heroine.

And when the family return next morning and explain that they went out to look at the sunset,
but were held up at a neighbour's by the weather, nobody seems to think the excuse a little thin.

The heroine can never hope for a tranquil existence like other people. I read of one only recently
who, just because she strongly objected to the man her parents wanted her to marry, was flung
with him on an iceberg that had only seating capacity for two. And when the iceberg began to
melt-- writers must at times manipulate the elements--it meant that she must either watch the
man drown or share the same seat with him. The rescue party held off, of course, until the
harassed girl was sitting on his knees, and then received the pair as they slid down, announcing
their engagement.

What do I intend to do with Bertram and Eunice? I am undecided whether to place them in the
vicinity of a volcano, which, unknown to Bertram, has eruptive tendencies, or to send them
up in an aeroplane and break the propeller in mid-Atlantic just as the rescue party (including
the husband)--What? Do I understand anything about aeroplanes? Certainly not; but I know everything
about heroines.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVIDENCE.

"What's all this I hear about the Abbey?" said my friend Truscott when I met him yesterday.

Truscott has just returned from New Zealand and is for the moment a little behind the times.
But he can pick up the threads as quickly as most men.

"It's in a bad way," I told him. "All kinds of defects in the fabric, and there's a public
fund to make it sound again. You ought to subscribe."

"It may be in disrepair," he replied, "but it isn't going to fall down just yet. I know; I
went to see it this morning."

"But how do you know?" I asked. "You may guess; you can't know."

"I know," he said, "because I was told. A little bird told me, and there's no authority half
so good. Do you remember a few years ago a terrific storm that blew down half the elms in Kensington
Gardens?"

I remembered. I had reason; for the trunks and branches were all over the road and my omnibus
from Church Street to Piccadilly Circus had to make wide detours.

"Well," Truscott continued, "someone wrote to the papers to say that two or three days before
the storm all the rooks left the trees and did not return. They knew what was coming. Birds
do know, you know, and that's why I feel no immediate anxiety about the Abbey."

"Explain," I said.

"Well," he continued, "when I was there this morning I watched a sparrow popping in and out
of a nest built in a niche in the stonework over the north door."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THOUGHTS ON "THE TIMES."

(FROM A TRAIN.)

Really the news is very bad this morning. On the front page there are two Foreign crises and
a Home one. On the next page there is one Grave Warning and two probable strikes. On every
other page there is either a political murder or a new war. It is awful ...

Yet somehow I don't feel depressed. I rather feel like giggling. An empty smoker in the Cornish
express--empty except for me! Extraordinary! And all my luggage in the right van, labelled
for Helston, and not for Hull or Harwich or Hastings. That porter was a splendid fellow, so
respectful, so keen on his work--no Bolshevism about him. I gave him a shilling. I gave the
taxi-man a shilling too. That guard is a pleasant fellow also; I shall give him two shillings,
perhaps half-a-crown. Yet I see that the railways are seething with unrest.

I have just read The Times' leader. Everything seems to be coming undone ... Persia, Mesopotamia,
Egypt, India. This Bolshevist business ... dreadful. The guard has got me a ticket for the
Second Luncheon. A capital fellow. I gave him three shillings. Absurd. I have no more shillings
now. I am overdrawn. There is a financial crisis. But that, of course, is general. I see that
Mr. Iselbaum anticipates a general smash this winter. A terrible winter it is going to be ...
no coal, no food ... We ought to be in by five, in time for a fat late tea ... Cornish cream
... jam. Gwen will be at the station, with the children, all in blue ... or pink perhaps. How
jolly the country looks! Superficial, of course; the harvest's ruined; no wheat, no fruit.
And unemployment will be very bad. And the more people there are unemployed the more people
will strike ... Sounds funny, that; but true ... Hope they've given us the usual table in the
coffee-room, that jolly window-table in the corner, where one can look across the bay to the
cliffs and the corn-fields and the hills ... Only there's no corn, I suppose, this year ...
And one has a good view of the rest of the room there ... can study the new arrivals at dinner,
instead of having to wait till afterwards. Dinner is much the best time to study them; you
can see at once how they eat. And it is so much easier to decide which is the sister and which
the fiancée of the young man when they are all stationary at a table. When you only see them
rushing about passages in ones it takes days.

All the usual families will be there, I suppose--the Bradleys and the Clinks, old Mrs. Puntage
and the kids--if they can afford it this year ... Very likely they can't. I can't, certainly.
But I'm going.

"Not since the fateful week-end of August, 1914, when the destinies of Europe were decided
in a few hours, have issues of such gravity engaged the attention of the British race...."
Dreadful. I shall get some tennis tomorrow. I shan't be called. I shall get up when the sun
is on my face and not before. I shall dress very, very slowly, looking at the sea and the sands
and the sun, not rushing, not shaving properly, not thinking, not washing a great deal, just
sort of falling into an old coat and some grey flannels.... Then I shall just sort of fall
downstairs--about half-past nine, and give the old barometer a bang. Then breakfast, very deliberate,
but cheerful, because the glass went up when I banged it--it always goes up at that hotel ...
like the cost of living. Up another five points to-day, I see. Bread's going to be one-and-threepence.
But of course there won't be any bread this winter, so the price doesn't much matter. But what
about coal? and milk? and meat? "Several new sets of wage claims are due for decision within
the next few weeks, and it is possible that two of them at least may not be determined without
a cessation of work." More strikes ... But not for a week or two. To-morrow there won't be
any papers at breakfast; there won't be any letters. I shan't catch the 9.5. After breakfast
I shall smoke on the cliff--then some tennis. Most of the balls will go over the cliff, but
when they have all gone one just slips down and bathes, and picks them up on the way. Undress
on the rocks--no machines, no tents. Jolly bathing. Mixed, of course. This Tonbridge councillor
is on about that again, I see. He ought to come to Mullion. Mixed bathing depends entirely
on the mixture. He doesn't realise that. Of course, if he will bathe at Tonbridge ...

"In diplomatic circles no one is attempting to conceal that the situation is extremely grave."
Now which situation is that? That must be one of these world-plots. Don't really see how civilisation
can carry on more than a week or two now. Lucky I only took a single, perhaps. It was only
two pounds, but I hadn't enough for a return. Never shall have enough, probably--but no matter.
If the world is coming to an end, might as well be in a good part of it at the time. And it
would be sickening to be snuffed out with an unused return-ticket in one's pocket.

On the sands after lunch--build a few castles and dams and things for the children--at least,
not altogether for the children, not so much as they think, anyhow. Tea at the farm, with plenty
of cream, possibly an egg ... No eggs this winter, I see; some question of non-unionists. Then
a little golf before dinner--and perhaps a little dancing afterwards. Coffee, anyhow ...

Then The Times arrives, all wrapped up, just as one is explaining about the seventh hole. It
is all stiff and crinkly, and one spends a long time rearranging it, flattening out the folds ...

And one never reads it. That's the best of all.

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PRONE.

To the Editor of "Punch."

SIR,--I am an architect (of forty-three years' standing) and I like to keep au courant with
everything in the world of building (or of being about to build). Consequently anything new
in constructional material interests me, and in this connection I would like to ask you what
is or what are Prone? I have only seen it (or them) mentioned once, and from the context I
gather that the word "prone" stands for the plural of "prone" (as "grouse" is the plural of
"grouse," and as "house" might well stand for the plural of "house" nowadays, considering the
shortage of dwellings), and that it (or they) is (or are) used either as a floor covering or
otherwise in connection with working on the floor or ground.

My reason for so thinking is contained in the following interesting item, culled from a well-known
daily newspaper:--

    "There is in London one man at least who works hard every day and has
    to lay prone to do it.

    He may be seen daily in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey re-cutting
    the names on the flagged gravestones which have been worn by countless
    pilgrims' feet. He has picked out many illustrious names, and others
    are to follow."

The sex and species of this hard-worker preclude the notion of any oviparous act, and I take
it that one "lays prone" as one lays a mat or strip of carpet, for the purpose of facilitating
labour that is done on the knees or stomach. If I am right I should like to get my builder
to order some for his workmen absolutely at once.

Anything which would help to defeat the Trade Unions in their fight against speeding-up would
be a blessing, especially to the architectural world, so perhaps you will be good enough to
enlighten me on the nature of Prone, and where obtainable.

Believe me, Yours very gravely, ONESIMUS STONE (F.R.I.B.A.).

       *       *       *       *       *

From an American book on "How and What to Read":--

    "Other great American short story writers include Bret Harte, Edward
    Everett Hale, Frank Stockton, and Mary E. Wilkins. With these may be
    included Thomas Hardy's 'Life's Little Ironies,' which are full of
    fun."

Mr. HARDY will be glad, no doubt, to add this little irony to his collection.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KELPIE.

  The scoffer rails at ancient tales
    Of lake and stream and river;
  The wise man owns that in his bones
    The kelpie makes him shiver.

  Big salmon-flies the scoffer buys,
    Long rods and wading stockings;
  Unpicturesque he walks in Esk
    With unbelief and mockings.

  "A river-horse! O-ho, of course!"
    And shouts with ribald laughter;
  He does not see in his cheap glee
    The kelpie trotting after.

  The storm comes chill from off the hill;
    An eerie wind doth holloa;
  And near and near by surges drear
    The water-horse doth follow.

  A snort, a snuff; enough, enough;
    Past prayer or human help he
  Comes never more to mortal door
    Who meets the water-kelpie.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE KING ARRIVES IN SCOTLAND

    ASKED TO LEAVE."

    Consecutive Headlines in "The Daily Mirror."

The habit of reading the headlines in our pictorial newspapers without glancing at the pictures
beneath them is liable to create false impressions.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A MAKER OF PILLS.

    "The Pill Trade has fallen on evil days; no ex-service men seem to
    require pills."--A pill manufacturer summoned for rates at Willesden.

  O Benefactor of the British Tommy,
    So often sick in far unfriendly climes,
  What tears of sympathy are flowing from me
    To learn that you have fallen on evil times!
  Yea, to my mind 'tis little short of tragic
  That men no longer buy your potent spheres of magic!

  Scarce less detested than the Bulgar bullet
    Your bitter pellets of Quin. Sulph. gr. 5
  Have often stuck in my long-suffering gullet,
    Leaving me barely more than half alive,
  Whilst the accursed drug, whose taste I dread,
  Hummed like an aeroplane within my throbbing head.

  And what about Acetyl-Salicylic,
    And what of Calomels and Soda Sals?
  Existence had been even less idyllic
    Without those powerful and faithful pals!
  Why, midst the fevers of the Struma plain you
  Furnished the greater part of Tommy's daily menu.

  Or what of that infallible specific,
    Your Pil. Cathartic Comp., or No. 9,
  Whose world-wide influence must have been terrific
    Since first it found its footing in the Line?
  The British Tommy took it by the million--
  Why should it fail to sell now he has turned civilian?

  It is not base ingratitude that blinds him
    To recognition of an ancient debt,
  But rather that the sight of these reminds him
    Of painful days which he would fain forget.
  When life was one long round of guards and drills,
  Marches, patrols, fatigues and sick parades--and pills.

  Yet hear me, maker of the potent pilule:
    Although my days of soldiering are o'er,
  I'm fondly trusting that, when next I'm ill, you
    Come to my rescue as you came of yore;
  Meanwhile you'll understand that I, for one,
  Refuse to buy your wares and eat them just for fun.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DEAD HEAT.

    "In the high jump final, Landen (U.S.A.) was first with a jump of 6ft.
    4-1/2in.; Muller (U.S.A.) and E. Keleend (Sweeden) died for second
    place."--Provincial Paper.

Her "I's" are generally rather close together.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The policy which should be adopted is first to take steps to prevent
    prices continuing to rise, and then to endeavour to reduce them until
    the purchasing power of the pound sterling is equal to the purchasing
    power of the dollar."--Financial Paper.

Judging by the New York exchange good progress has been made in this direction.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE, JANE AND LENIN.

