Two pounds and a half raisins, three quarters of currants, two pounds finest moist sugar, two
pounds bread crumbs, sixteen eggs, two pounds finely chopped suet, six ounces mixed candied
peel, juice and rind of two lemons, one ounce of ground nutmeg, one ounce of cinnamon, half
ounce pounded bitter almonds, gill of brandy or if objected to, any flavoring at hand.

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Two cups of flour, two cups of raisins, two of currants, two cups of suet, one tablespoon sugar,
enough water to make a stiff batter, colour with burnt sugar, spice to taste, salt, and lemon
peel. Just before putting on to boil stir in a couple of tablespoonfuls of raw sago; boil in
a cloth, not a shape.

PLUM PUDDING.

MADAME J. T.

Four eggs, yolks and whites beaten together, one half cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one
cup stoned raisins, two cups currants, one cup bread crumbs, two cups chopped suet, three quarters
of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of a large lemon, one cup flour and one teaspoon baking
powder. Steam for three and a half hours in a tightly closed pudding mould well buttered, keeping
the water boiling constantly. Before serving sprinkle thickly with sugar and pour over this
one half cup brandy, and light. Serve with this a sauce made with the juice and rind (grated)
of one lemon, put over to boil with one half cup sugar, one half cup water, add one tablespoon
cornstarch, one half cup sherry, one half cup brandy. This quantity will serve sixteen people.

PALACE PUDDING.

MRS. SMYTHE.

Two eggs, one cup of flour, one half cup sugar, one quarter cup butter, one teaspoon baking
powder, one half teaspoon nutmeg, cream butter, add sugar, eggs, the flour sifted with baking
powder, also nutmeg. Grease tin and bake half an hour.

Sauce.--One dessertspoon butter, one dessertspoon of flour, rub well together, add slowly about
one cup boiling water, three dessertspoons brown sugar, one teaspoon of molasses. Boil slowly
until it thickens and flavor as desired.

QUAY PUDDING. Cream butter with sugar, add to this the eggs and jam, the flour sifted with
the soda. Put into a buttered mould and steam for two hours and serve with lemon sauce.

RAILROAD PUDDING.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Four eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, a cup of sugar to the whites, beat again, then
add the yolks, mix a teaspoon of baking powder in a cup of flour and mix the flour and eggs
and beat again. Put a sheet of buttered paper in a square pan and bake. When done turn it on
a heated towel, the buttered side up and take off the paper and spread with a thick jam or
marmalade, roll up quickly and pour sweetened whipped cream over, flavor with vanilla.

RICE PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup of rice boiled soft in water, add a pint of cold milk, and a piece of butter size of
an egg, salt to taste, yolks of four eggs, rind of lemon grated. Mix and bake one half hour.
Beat the whites of four eggs, stir in a pint of sugar, juice of one good sized lemon. After
the pudding is baked and cooled a little pour this over and brown in the oven. Eat cold; this
will keep for several days.

SUET PUDDING. (Plain.)

MRS STUART OLIVER.

Three quarters of a pound of flour, one quarter of a pound suet chopped fine; mix with an egg
and milk.

VICTORIA PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour. Butter and sugar to be beaten to a cream,
add the well beaten eggs, two tablespoons of marmalade, then the sifted flour, one half teaspoon
soda, dissolved in boiling water. Steam for three hours, not less.

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR PLAIN BLANC MANGE.

The whites of two eggs, one cup pulverized sugar, one cup strawberries. Mix all together and
whip until stiff.

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cupful of fine granulated sugar, one-half cupful of butter boiled together until it creams,
(a wooden spoon best for this), beat the white of an egg until stiff, then add one cup of mashed
strawberries, and beat again; add to the mixture, stir well together.

HARD SAUCE.

MRS. GAUDET.

1. One cup of brown sugar, one tablespoon of butter, three drops of vanilla, half a glass of
sherry, whipped lightly.

2. One glass of sherry, a tablespoon of molasses, and a tablespoon of sugar.

DESSERTS.

    "Custards for supper and an endless host of other such lady-like
    luxuries."--SHELLEY.

ORANGE FLOAT.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

One quart of water, the juice and pulp of two lemons, one coffee cup of sugar. Over this spread
beaten whites of three eggs. Sweeten and add a few drops of vanilla.

VELVET CREAM.

A large teacupful of white wine, the juice of a nice lemon, one half ounce of isinglass, sugar
to taste, let boil together, till nearly all the isinglass is dissolved, then strain and add
one pint of cream. Let it stand until nearly cold and then put it into the mould. It requires
to be made some hours before it is turned out.

PRUNE JELLY.

Put about three dozen prunes into one quart of boiling water and let them boil for one hour,
take out the prunes and stone them making use of half the kernels as a flavoring. Put the prunes
back into the water, with the blanched kernels, adding one cup of sugar and let boil half an
hour more. Dissolve half a box of Cox's gelatine in water and add to the above and boil ten
minutes longer. Put into a mould and serve cold with whipped cream.

FROZEN PUDDING.

Make a custard with three eggs and about one pint of milk, flavor with vanilla and a small
cup of white sugar. Put four tablespoons of brown sugar in a frying pan and brown it well.
Take from the stove and stir till off the boil, then stir into the custard. Put all in a dipper
or deep dish; take a large dish full of snow and coarse salt, put the dipper into this and
stir the custard until it is quite thick. Put into a mould and leave in a cool place. Serve
with whipped cream.

ARROWROOT WINE JELLY.

Wet two heaping teaspoons of arrowroot with a little cold water, stir it into a cup of boiling
water in which has been dissolved 2 teaspoons of white sugar. Stir while it boils ten minutes.
Add one tablespoon of brandy, or three of sherry. Put into a mould and serve cold with custard
as a sauce. This is very nice for invalids, omitting the sauce.

RICE BLANC MANGE.

One half pound ground rice, one quart of milk, three ounces of sugar, the rind of half a lemon,
one half teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil the rice in the milk for twenty minutes with the sugar
and rind of lemon, then remove the rind and add the vanilla. Put it into a wet mould.

LEMON JELLY.

MISS CLINT.

Dissolve one package or twelve sheets of gelatine in a little warm water. Then add three and
one half pints of boiling water, one pound of sugar and the juice of four lemons. Cool in a mould.

COFFEE JELLY.

MRS. GAUDET.

Two tablespoons of coffee, one package of gelatine, one glass of sherry boiled down to one pint.

ICED APPLES WITH CREAM.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

Pare and core six apples; cook them in a syrup made of one cup of sugar, and two of water;
drop the apples into the boiling syrup; when they are tender put them on a platter, when cool
cover with a thin layer of meringue and brown. Let the syrup boil until reduced to one half
cupful, when cold, will form a jelly, cut into squares and place over and around the apples.
Serve cold with sugar and cream.

FRUIT JELLY.

MISS FRY.

To one large box of gelatine add one half pint cold water. When dissolved add juice of three
lemons, two cups sugar, one pint of boiling water. Arrange in layers in a mould. Four bananas
and two or more oranges (sliced) six castane nuts chopped fine, six figs, one quarter lb. dates
cut into small pieces. Strain jelly over this and cool. Serve with whipped cream. A lining
of ladies fingers is an improvement.

COMPOTE OF APPLES.

MISS SEPTIMUS BARROW.

Take five apples, wipe, but do not peel them, take the cores out of four of them and put them
in a deep dish. Slice the fifth apple and put the slices and a small lemon sliced with the
four apples. One quarter lb. brown sugar to be sprinkled over apples. One half pint of water.
Bake until perfectly soft but do not let them lose their shape. Put them in a dish, press and
strain the cut up pieces over the cooked apples. To be eaten cold.

POMMES À LA VESUVE.

MISS LAMPSON.

Pile some apple marmalade high in a dish; get ready some macaroni boiled in water well drained,
and afterwards sweetened with white sugar, and flavored with brandy; cut it into short lengths,
lay it as a bordering round the mountains of marmalade; dust the whole over with powdered sugar,
and on the apex form a crater with half a dozen nubs of sugar; pour a gill of brandy over the
top, and just before serving set fire to it and place it on the table flaming.

LEMON SPONGE.

MISS BEEMER. The sponge should be allowed to stand twenty-four hours.

ORANGE SOUFFLÉ. Bananas may be used instead of oranges and are far more wholesome from contact
with the heat.

GELATINE, WITH FRUIT. Take two moulds of the same size, and pour half your jelly into each.

EASY ICE CREAM.

One pint of cream, half a pint of milk, teacupful of sugar, two eggs beaten separately, the
whites being added last, a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Stir thoroughly but do not cook,
it is quite as nice without. This will be sufficient for six persons. Dissolve half a pound
of macaroons in the above mixture before it is frozen and a delicious ice cream may be had.

TRIFLE.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

One pint of cream well beaten, sugar and flavoring to taste. One quarter of a pound of macaroons
which have soaked in sherry for a few minutes. Put in a deep dish alternate layers of macaroons
and cream. Preserved cherries and almonds (whole) are a great improvement.

CARAMEL CREAM.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Boil two coffee cups of dark brown sugar, butter the size of an egg and two thirds of a cup
of thin sweet cream. Twelve minutes after it commences to boil dissolve half a cup of gelatine
in a little cold water, add this to the boiling mixture and nearly a pint of sweet cream all
but the two thirds of a cup used in the beginning. Strain and flavor with a tablespoonful of
vanilla; pour into a pudding mould and let it stand over night on the ice. Serve with whipped
cream.

CLARET JELLY.

MRS. GILMOUR.

One ounce of gelatine, one cup of sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons, two or three pieces
of cinnamon, one and one half pints of water, one half pint of claret, one glass of brandy.
If Cox's gelatine or Lady Charlotte, is used it will have to be soaked first in a little of
the cold water, if the leaf gelatine, boiling water can be poured on it. Put all together into
a saucepan with whites of three eggs, put on the fire until it boils and then strain through
a flannel bag.

CUP CUSTARD.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker to Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Five eggs, six ounces of sugar, one quart of milk, extract to flavor, spread cups or moulds
with unsalted butter, fill up with the custard, and place in pan filled with one inch water
in good oven.

SPANISH CREAM.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons ground rice, one pint of milk. Beat
the eggs a little. Put all together on the fire and stir constantly until it thickens. Pour
into glass dish and garnish with blanched almonds and strips of citron.

SPANISH CREAM.

MISS GREEN.

Soak one half package of gelatine in one pint of milk for half an hour; while this is soaking
take two eggs (separate them) beating the yolks with one half a cup of white sugar, till light,
and whip the whites to a stiff froth: when the gelatine is soaked, put the sauce pan on the
fire and let gelatine and milk come to the boil: then add the yolks and remove from fire, add
the whites and one teaspoon of vanilla. Put in a wet mould and cool.

CHARLOTTE RUSSE.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

To make the jelly for bottom of mould one half a package of gelatine soaked in a little over
a tumbler of water, sugar to taste, one half a small cup of cooking wine and enough cochineal
to color. Let this stand until stiff. One pint of sweet cream, one half a box of gelatine dissolved,
wine to taste, one teaspoon of vanilla, a little over half a cup of sugar: whip cream stiff,
then add sugar, wine, vanilla and lastly the gelatine. Beat well together and pour into your
mould lined with ladies fingers and jelly.

WINE CREAM.

MRS. W. CRAWFORD.

Two cups of cream, half a cup of sugar, one box of gelatine dissolved in half a cup of sherry
over a steamer, when dissolved, strain into cream, and put in a mould and in a cool place.

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two large juicy pineapples, one and one half pounds of sugar, one quart of water, juice of
two lemons. Pare the pineapples, grate them and add the juice of the lemons. Boil the sugar
and water together for five minutes. When cold add the pineapple and strain through a sieve.
Turn into freezer and freeze.

LEMON WATER ICE.

Four large juicy lemons, one quart of water, one orange, one and one quarter pounds of sugar.
Put the sugar and water over to boil. Chip the yellow rind from three lemons and the orange,
add to the syrup, boil five minutes and stand away to cool. Square the juice from the orange
and lemon add it to the cold syrup, strain it through a cloth and freeze.

ROLLED JELLY.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

Two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Take the yolks and beat to a cream with one cup
of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of milk, then add one cup of flour, one heaping teaspoon of
baking powder and the well beaten whites last, also extract as fancied. When baked place on
a wet cloth and trim outside edges, cover with preserves, roll in the cloth and let it stand
for ten minutes, eat with whipped cream.

JUNKET.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

Slightly warm one quart milk, add junket tablet dissolved, and two or three tablespoonfuls
sugar. Keep in a warm place near fire till solid. Then remove to a cool place till served.
Serve with cream and maple sugar or preserves.

SCRIPTURE CAKE.

MRS. STOCKING.

    One cup butter                                      Judges V. 25
    Four cups flour                                  I. Kings IV. 22
    Three cups sugar                                 Jeremiah VI. 20
    Two cups raisins                               I. Samuel XXX. 12
    Two cups figs                                  I. Samuel XXX. 12
    One cup water                                   Genesis XXIV. 17
    One cup almonds                                   Jeremiah I. 11
    Six eggs                                            Isaiah X. 14
    One tablespoon honey                              Exodus XVI. 21
    One teaspoon cream                                Exodus XII. 19
    Baking powder three teaspoonfuls a pinch of salt      Job VI.  6
    Spices to taste                                   I. Kings X. 10

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will have a good cake.--Proverbs XXIII. 13.

CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE.

MRS. THOM.

One pound of flour, one pound of butter beaten to a cream, six eggs beaten separately, two
wineglasses of brandy, one pound sugar, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound
of prunes, one pound figs chopped, one half pound mixed candied peel, one half pound almonds,
one half teaspoon mixed spice or nutmeg.

FRUITCAKE.

