The following extracts and cuttings from newspapers, relative to the unfortunate Major André,
may interest your correspondent SERVIENS. I believe I have some others, which I will send when
I can lay my hand upon them. I inclose a pencil copy of the scarce print of a sketch from a
pen-and-ink drawing, made by André himself on Oct. 1, 1780, of his crossing the river when
he was taken:

    "Visit to the Grave of André.--We stopped at Piermont, on the widest
    part of Tappan Bay, where the Hudson extends itself to the width of
    three miles. On the opposite side, in full view from the hotel, is
    Tarrytown, where poor André was captured. Tradition says that a very
    large white-wood tree, under which he was taken, was struck by
    lightning on the very day that news of André's death was received at
    Tarrytown. As I sat gazing on the opposite woods, dark in the shadows
    of moonlight, I thought upon how very slight a circumstance often
    depends the fate of individuals and the destiny of nations. In the
    autumn of 1780, a farmer chanced to be making cider at a mill on the
    east bank of the Hudson, near that part of Haverstraw Bay called
    'Mother's Lap.' Two young men, carrying muskets, as usual in those
    troubled times, stopped for a draught of sweet cider, and seated
    themselves on a log to wait for it. The farmer found them looking very
    intently on some distant object, and inquired what they saw. 'Hush,
    hush!' they replied; 'the red coats are yonder, just within the Lap,'
    pointing to an English gun-boat, with twenty-four men, lying on their
    oars. Behind the shelter of a rock, they fired into the boat, and
    killed two persons. The British returned a random shot; but ignorant of
    the number of their opponents, and seeing that it was useless to waste
    ammunition on a hidden foe, they returned whence they came with all
    possible speed. This boat had been sent to convey Major André to the
    British sloop-of-war Vulture, then lying at anchor off Teller's Point.
    Shortly after André arrived, and finding the boat gone, he, in
    attempting to pass through the interior, was captured. Had not those
    men stopped to drink sweet cider, it is probable that André would not
    have been hung; the American revolution might have terminated in quite
    a different fashion; men now deified as heroes might have been handed
    down to posterity as traitors; our citizens might be proud of claiming
    descent from Tories, and slavery have been abolished eight years ago,
    by virtue of our being British Colonies. So much may depend on a
    draught of cider! But would England herself have abolished slavery had
    it not been for the impulse given to free principles by the American
    revolution? Probably not. It is not easy to calculate the consequences
    involved even in a draught of cider, for no fact stands alone; each has
    infinite relations. A very pleasant ride at sunset brought us to Orange
    Town, to the lone field where Major André was executed. It is planted
    with potatoes, but the plough spares the spot on which was once his
    gallows and his grave. A rude heap of stones, with the remains of a
    dead fir tree in the midst, are all that mark it; but tree and stones
    are covered with names. It is on an eminence commanding a view of the
    country for miles. I gazed on the surrounding woods, and remembered
    that on this selfsame spot, the beautiful and accomplished young man
    walked back and forth, a few minutes preceding his execution, taking an
    earnest farewell look of earth and sky. My heart was sad within me. Our
    guide pointed to a house in full view, at half a mile's distance, which
    he told us was at that time the head-quarters of General Washington. I
    turned my back suddenly upon it. The last place on earth where I would
    wish to think of Washington is at the grave of André. I know that
    military men not only sanction but applaud the deed; and, reasoning
    according to the maxims of war, I am well aware how much can be said in
    his defence. That Washington considered it a duty, the discharge of
    which was most painful to him, I doubt not. But, thank God, the
    instincts of any childhood are unvitiated by any such maxims. From the
    first hour I read of the deed, until the present day, I never did, and
    never could, look upon it as otherwise than cool, deliberate murder.
    That the theory and practice of war commends the transaction, only
    serves to prove the infernal nature of war itself.... A few years ago,
    the Duke of York requested the British Consul to send the remains of
    Major André to England. At that time two thriving firs were found near
    the grave, and a peach-tree; which a lady in the neighbourhood had
    planted there, in the kindness of her heart. The farmers who came to
    witness the interesting ceremony generally evinced the most respectful
    tenderness for the memory of the unfortunate dead, and many of the
    children wept. A few idlers, educated by militia trainings and Fourth
    of July declaration, began to murmur that the memory of General
    Washington was insulted by any respect shown to the remains of André;
    but the offer of a treat lured them to the tavern, where they soon
    became too drunk to guard the character of Washington. It was a
    beautiful day, and these disturbing spirits being removed, the
    impressive ceremony proceeded in solemn silence. {644} The coffin was
    in good preservation, and contained all the bones, with a small
    quantity of dust. The roots of the peach-tree had entirely interwoven
    the skull with their fine network. His hair, so much praised for its
    uncommon beauty, was tied, on the day of his execution, according to
    the fashion of the times. When his grave was opened, half a century
    afterwards, the riband was found in perfect preservation, and sent to
    his sister in England. When it was known that the sarcophagus
    containing his remains had arrived in New York, for London, many ladies
    sent garlands and emblematic devices, to be wreathed around it, in
    memory of the 'beloved and lamented André.' In their compassionate
    hearts, the teachings of nature were unperverted by maxims of war, or
    that selfish jealousy which dignifies itself with the name of
    patriotism. Blessed be God, that custom forbids women to electioneer or
    fight. May the sentiment remain till war and politics have passed away!
    Had not women and children been kept free from their polluting
    influence, the medium of communication between earth and heaven would
    have been completely cut off. At the foot of the eminence where the
    gallows had been erected, we found an old Dutch farm-house, occupied by
    a man who witnessed the execution, and whose father often sold peaches
    to the unhappy prisoner. He confirmed the account of André's uncommon
    personal beauty, and had a vivid remembrance of the pale but calm
    heroism with which he met his untimely death."--From Miss Child's
    Letters from New York.

    "André.--At the little town of Tappan, the unfortunate Major André,
    condemned by the council of war as a spy, was executed and buried. His
    remains were disinterred a few years ago, by order of the English
    Government, carried to England, and, if I mistake not, deposited in
    Westminster Abbey; whilst the remains of General Frazer, who fell like
    a hero, at the head of the King's troops, lie without a monument in the
    old redoubt near Still Water. The tree that grew over André's grave was
    likewise sent to England; and, as I was told, planted in the King's
    Garden, behind Carlton Palace."--Duke of Weimar's Travels.

    "Disinterment of Major André.--This event took place at Tappan on
    Friday, 10th inst., at one p. m., amidst a considerable concourse of
    ladies and gentlemen that assembled to witness this interesting
    ceremony. The British Consul, with several gentlemen, accompanied by
    the proprietor of the ground and his labourers, commenced their
    operations at eleven o'clock, by removing the heap of loose stones that
    surrounded and partly covered the grave. Great caution was observed in
    taking up a small peach-tree that was growing out of the grave, as the
    Consul stated his intention of sending it to his Majesty, to be placed
    in one of the Royal Gardens. Considerable anxiety was felt lest the
    coffin could not be found, as various rumours existed of its having
    been removed many years ago. However, when at the depth of three feet,
    the labourers came to it. The lid was broken in the centre, and had
    partly fallen in, but was kept up by resting on the skull. The lid
    being raised, the skeleton of the brave André appeared entire; bone to
    bone, each in its place, without a vestige of any other part of his
    remains, save some of his hair, which appeared in small tufts; and the
    only part of his dress was the leather string which tied it.

    "As soon as the curiosity of the spectators was gratified, a large
    circle was formed; when Mr. Eggleso, the undertaker, with his
    assistants, uncovered the sarcophagus, into which the remains were
    carefully removed. This superb depository, in imitation of those used
    in Europe for the remains of the illustrious dead, was made by Mr.
    Eggleso, of Broadway, of mahogany; the pannels covered with rich
    crimson velvet, surrounded by a gold bordering; the rings of deep
    burnished gold; the pannel also crimson velvet, edged with gold; the
    inside lined with black velvet; the whole supported by four gilt balls.

    "The sarcophagus, with the remains, has been removed on board his
    Majesty's packet; where, it is understood, as soon as some repairs on
    board are completed, an opportunity will be afforded of viewing
    it."--From the New York Evening Post of Aug. 11.

    "The remains of the lamented Major André have (as our readers already
    know) been lately removed from the spot where they were originally
    interred in the year 1780, at Tappan, New York, and brought to England
    in the Phæton frigate by order of his Royal Highness the Duke of York.
    Yesterday the sarcophagus was deposited in front of the cenotaph in
    Westminster Abbey, which was erected by his late Majesty to the memory
    of this gallant officer. The reinterment took place in the most private
    manner, the Dean of Westminster superintending in person, Major-Gen.
    Sir Herbert Taylor attending on the part of his Royal Highness the
    Commander-in-Chief and Mr. Locker, Secretary to Greenwich Hospital, on
    behalf of the three surviving sisters of the deceased."--From newspaper
    of which the name and date have not been preserved.

G. C.

With many thanks for the obliging replies to my Query for information concerning this gentleman,
I would desire to repeat it in a more specific form. Can none of your readers inform me whether
there do not remain papers, &c. of or concerning Major André, which might without impropriety
be at this late day given to the world; and if so, by what means access could be had thereto?
Are there none such in the British Museum, or in the State Paper Offices? My name and address
are placed with the Editor of this journal, at the service of any correspondent who may prefer
to communicate with me privately.

SERVIENS.

Major André occupied Dr. Franklin's house when the British army was in Philadelphia in 1777
and 1778. When it evacuated the city, André carried off with him a portrait of the Doctor,
which has never been heard of since. The British officers amused themselves with amateur theatricals
at the South Street Theatre in Southwark, then the only one in Philadelphia, theatres being
prohibited in the city. The tradition here is, that André painted the scenes. They were {645}
destroyed with the theatre by fire about thirty-two years ago.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

PASSAGE IN WHISTON.

(Vol. viii., pp. 244. 397.)

The book for which J.T. inquires is:

    "The Important Doctrines of Original Sin, Justification by Faith and
    Regeneration, clearly stated from Scripture and Reason, and vindicated
    from the Doctrines of the Methodists; with Remarks on Mr. Law's late
    Tract on New Birth. By Thomas Whiston, A.B. Printed for John Whiston,
    at the Boyle's Head, Fleet Street. Pp. 70."

I do not know who the author was. Perhaps a son of the celebrated William Whiston, six of whose
works are advertised on the back of the title-page; and whose Memoirs, Lond. 1749, are "sold
by Mr. Whiston in Fleet Street." If the passage cited by J. T. is all that Taylor says of Thomas
Whiston, it conveys an erroneous notion of his pamphlet, which from pp. 49. to 70. is occupied
by the question of regeneration. I think his doctrine may be shortly stated thus: Regeneration
accompanies the baptism of adults, and follows that of infants. In the latter case, the time
is uncertain; but the fact is ascertainable by the recipients becoming spiritually minded.

Afterwards he says:

    "I cannot dismiss this subject without observing another sense of
    regeneration in the Gospel. However, this makes no alteration in the
    doctrine I have before established; because, with us, regeneration and
    new birth are terms that bear the same exact meaning. What I before
    delivered of the spiritual new birth or regeneration is strictly true,
    though the word regeneration is sometimes used in another sense. It
    is not to be there understood of a spiritual or figurative birth, but
    of a literal and actual revival of the body from corruption. But this
    is not that new birth we have before inquired after, but only the
    assured and certain consequence of our preserving ourselves to the end
    in that spiritual state or birth we have entered into in this world.
    That I do not represent the sense of the word regeneration unfairly,
    may be gathered from Matt. xix. I make no doubt that this latter opinion is the genuine sense of
    the text I have quoted from St. Matthew; and consequently, that
    regeneration, in this passage, is to be applied to the first
    resurrection of the dead, or to the supposed Millennium."--Pp. 67, 68.

The above will show that Thomas Whiston did not "maintain that regeneration is a literal and
physical being born again," in the sense which the passage quoted by J. T. conveys. I have
not seen Taylor's work with the date 1746. As the name is common, and the pamphlets and sermons
of that time on original sin are innumerable, many Taylors may have written besides the one
mentioned by [Greek: Halieus]. J. T.'s Taylor cannot be excused even on the ground of having
read only a part of the book he misrepresented: for he refers to p. 68., from which he must
have seen that Thomas Whiston there explained only an isolated passage.

H. B. C.

Garrick Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

HELMETS.

(Vol. viii., p. 538.)

The following observations upon the helmet, by Stephen Martin Leake, Esq., Garter, may be acceptable
to your querist S. N.

    "The helmet, called galea by the Greeks, cassis by the Romans, is
    called helm (which signifies the head) by the Germans; whence the
    French heaume, and our helmet. It is of great account with the
    Germans: the helm and crest deriving their use from tournaments, whence
    arms took their origin; and this being with them the most essential
    mark of noblesse, neither the Germans nor French allow a new made
    gentleman to bear a helmet, but only a wreath of his colours; and when
    he is a gentleman of three descents, to bear a helmet with three barrs
    for his three descents (Menestrier, Abrégé méthodique des Armoiries,
    1672, p. 28.; Origine des Ornemens des Armoiries, p. 2.). Tymbre is
    the general word used for the casque or helm by the French. Menestrier,
    in his Origine des Ornemens des Armoiries, p. 13., says the modern
    heralds observe three things with regard to the tymbre: the matter,
    the form, and the situation. That kings should have their helmets of
    gold open, and in full front; princes and lords of silver, and somewhat
    turned with a certain number of barrs, according to their degree;
    gentlemen to have their helmets of steel, and in profile. Colombiere
    assigns a knight a helmet bordered with silver, barons with gold,
    counts and viscounts the like, and the barrs gold; marquisses the helm
    same, and damasked with gold; dukes and princes the gold helmet,
    damasked. And as to the barrs, new gentlemen without any; gentlemen of
    three descents, three barrs; knights and ancient gentlemen, five;
    barons seven; counts and viscounts nine; marquisses eleven. But Moreau,
    who first propagated these inventions (Origine des Ornemens des
    Armoiries, p. 17.), assigns to an emperor or king eleven, a prince or
    duke nine, a marquis and count seven, a baron five: whence it seems
    there is no {646} certain rule or uniform practice observed herein,
    unless in the situation of the helmet, wherein both the Germans and
    French account it more noble to bear an open helmet than a close one;
    but these are novel distinctions. Anciently, the helmets were all
    turned to the right, and close; and it is but some years since, says
    Menestrier (Abrégé Méthodique, 1672, p. 28.), that they began to
    observe the number of grilles or barrs, to distinguish the different
    degrees. But however ingenious these inventions are, it is certain that
    they are useless (as gold and silver helmets would be) because every
    rank of nobility is distinguished by the coronet proper to his degree.
    Whatever honour may be attributed to the helmet, the use of it with the
    arms is but modern; and upon the coins of kings and sovereign princes,
    where they are chiefly to be met with, the helmets are barred, and
    either full or in profile, as best suited the occasion; and upon the
    Garter plates of Christian Duke of Brunswick (1625), Gustavus Adolphus
    King of Sweden (1628), and Charles Count Palatine of the Rhine (1633
    and 1680), they are full fronted with seven barrs.

    "In Great Britain we have but four kinds of helmets, according to the
    four different degrees in the state--the king, the nobility, knights,
    and gentry. The sovereign helmet full fronted, having seven barrs or
    guards, visure without any bever; the nobilities the same, but half
    turned to the right, and usually showing four barrs; the knight's
    helmet full fronted, with the bever turned up; and the gentleman's in
    profile, the bever or visor close; using steel helmets for all as the
    only proper metal for a helmet common to all. Foreigners condemn us for
    attributing that helmet to a knight, which they give to a king; and
    more proper, says Mackensie, for a king without guard-visure than for a
    knight (Science of Heraldry, p. 87.), because knights are in danger,
    and have less need to command. But it must be observed, the knight's
    helmet has a visor, and no barrs; the sovereign's barrs, because no
    visor. And this kind of helmet, with barrs instead of a visor, seems to
    have been contrived for princes and great commanders, who would have
    been incommoded by the visor, and too much exposed without anything,
    therefore had barrs: whereas knights being, according to Mackensie, in
    more danger and having less need to command, had their helmet for
    action; and are represented with the bever up, ready to receive the
    king or general's command. As to the resemblance of the one to the
    other, both being in full front, the connexion was not anciently so
    remote as seems at this day. Knighthood is the first and most ancient
    military honour, and therefore at this day sovereign princes and
    knights are the only two honours universally acknowledged. Knighthood
    is the source of all honours, and of all military glory, and an honour
    esteemed by and conferred upon kings; without which they were
    heretofore thought incomplete, and could not confer that honour on
    others, no more than ordination could be conferred by one unordained:
    so that there was a very near connexion between sovereignty and
    knighthood. And besides, the propriety of the open helmet with a visor
    for a knight, and the helmet guard-visure for a king, the latter is
    more ornamental, especially if, according to the modern practice, the
    barrs are gold. As the king's helmet is without a visor, and barred, so
    is that of the nobility in imitation of it, but turned to the right as
    a proper distinction as, in like manner, that of the gentry differs
    from the knights. As there are in fact but two orders of men, nobility
    of which the king is the first degree, and gentry of which knights are
    the first, so they are by this means sufficiently distinguished
    according to their respective orders and degrees: the first order
    distinguished by the barred helmet, the gentry by the visored helmet
    with proper differences of the second degrees of each class from the
    first; and all other distinctions more than this are unnecessary and
    useless.

    "The helmet does not seem to have been formerly used but in a military
    way, and affairs of chivalry. I do not find any helmets upon the
    monuments of our Kings of England, nor upon other ancient monuments,
    nor upon any of the Great Seals, coins, or medals. Upon the plates of
    the Knights of the Garter at Windsor, all degrees used the old profile
    close helmet till about 1588, some few excepted; and soon after, the
    helmet with barrs came into fashion, and was used for all degrees of
    nobility, and it has continued ever since; and the same has been used
    for all degrees of nobility upon the plates of the Knights of the Bath,
    those that are knights only using a knight's helmet. And the same may
    be observed in Sir Edward Walker's Books of the Nobility from the
    Restoration to the Revolution, wherein all degrees have the helmet
    turned towards the right, showing four barrs; the sovereign's being
    full with seven barrs."

G.

       *       *       *       *       *

HAMPDEN'S DEATH.

(Vol. viii., p. 495.)

"On the 21st of July, 1828, the corpse of John Hampden was disinterred by the late Lord Nugent
for the purpose of settling the disputed point of history as to the manner in which the patriot
received his death-wound. The examination seems to have been conducted after a somewhat bungling
fashion for a scientific object, and the facts disclosed were these: 'On lifting up the right
arm we found that it was dispossessed of its hand. We might therefore naturally conjecture
that it had been amputated, as the bone presented a perfectly flat appearance, as if sawn off
by some sharp instrument. On searching under the cloths, to our no small astonishment we found
the hand, or rather a number of small bones, inclosed in a separate cloth. For about six inches
up the arm the flesh had wasted away, being evidently smaller than the lower part of the left
arm, to which the hand was very firmly united, and which presented no symptoms of decay further
than the two bones of the forefinger loose. Even the nails remained entire, of which we saw
no appearance in the cloth containing the remains of the right hand.... The clavicle of the
right shoulder was firmly united to the scapula, nor did there appear any contusion or indentation
that evinced symptoms of any wound ever having been inflicted. The left shoulder, on the contrary,
was smaller and sunken in, as if the clavicle had been displaced. To {647} remove all doubts,
it was adjudged necessary to remove the arms, which were amputated with a penknife (!). The
socket of the left (sic) arm was perfectly white and healthy, and the clavicle firmly united
to the scapula, nor was there the least appearance of contusion or wound. The socket of the
right (sic) shoulder, on the contrary, was of a brownish cast, and the clavicle being found
quite loose and disunited from the scapula, proved that dislocation had taken place. The bones,
however, were quite perfect.' These appearances indicated that injuries had been received both
in the hand and shoulder, the former justifying the belief in Sir Robert Pye's statement to
the Harleys, that the pistol which had been presented to him by Sir Robert, his son-in-law,
had burst and shattered his hand in a terrible manner at the action of Chalgrave Field; the
latter indicating that he had either been wounded in the shoulder by a spent ball, or had received
an injury there by falling from his horse after his hand was shattered. Of these wounds he
died three or four days after, according to Sir Philip Warwick. According to Clarendon, 'three
weeks after being shot into the shoulder with a brace of bullets, which broke the bone.' The
bone, however, was not found broken, and the 'brace of bullets' is equally imaginary."

This account is from a newspaper cutting of The News, August 3, 1828.

W. S.

Northiam.

       *       *       *       *       *

PETER ALLAN.

(Vol. viii., pp. 539. 630.)

Peter Allan deserves more than a brief notice. His history is so full of romance, the relics
of his name and fame are so many, and he is withal so little known, that I presume I may on
this occasion trespass on more than the ordinary space allotted to a "minor," but which should
be a "major" Query.

Peter Allan was born at Selkirk (?) in the year 1798. His parents were peasants, and Peter
in early life became valet to Mr. Williamson, brother of Sir Hedworth Williamson. He afterwards
became gamekeeper to the Marquis of Londonderry, and in that capacity acquired a reputation
as an unerring shot, and a man of unusual physical strength and courage. He afterwards married,
and became a publican at Whitburn, and in the course of few years purchased a little property,
and occupied himself in the superintendence of dock works and stone quarries. In this latter
capacity he acquired the skill in quarrying, on which his fame chiefly rests. Having a turn
for a romantic life, he conceived the strange project of founding a colony at Marsden, a wild,
rocky bay below the mouth of the Tyne, five miles from Sunderland, and three from South Shields.
The spot chosen by Peter as his future home had been colonised some years before by one "Jack
the Blaster," who had performed a series of excavations, and amongst them a huge round perforation
from the high land above to the beach below, through which it is said many a cargo has passed
ashore without being entered in the books of the excise. Here the cliff is formed of hard magnesian
limestone, and rises perpendicularly from the beach more than a hundred feet. When Peter set
to work, the only habitable portions were two wild caves opening to the sea, into which at
high tide the breakers tumbled, and where during rough weather it was impossible to continue
with safety. On the face of the rock Peter built a homestead of timber, and set up farm and
tavern. In the rock itself he excavated fifteen rooms, to each of which he gave an appropriate
name; the most interesting are the "Gaol Room," the "Devil's Chamber," the "Circular Room,"
the "Dining Room," and the "Ball Room." The height of the entire excavation is twenty feet,
its breadth thirty, and its length, from the ball room to the cottage, one hundred and twenty.
Several parts of the cave are lighted by windows hewn in the face of the rock, and these give
the cave a picturesque appearance as viewed frown the beach below. In addition to these labours,
Peter took possession of a huge table-rock, which stands some distance from the cliffs opposite
to the grotto. By dint of extraordinary exertions he excavated a passage from the land side
of this rock through its substance to the surface, and by placing scaling ladders against its
face, made provision for ascent and descent at high water. The three-quarters of an acre of
surface he colonised with rabbits, and built a shanty for himself and companions, where they
dwelt for some time thinning the wild fowl with their deadly shots, and raising many an echo
with their shouts of revelry.

To describe the strange scene presented by the grotto itself, the farm-buildings on the face
of the cliff, the huge table-rock and flagstaff, the many quaint blocks, pillars and wild escarpments,
and the numerous domestic animals, such as mastiffs, pigs, ravens, and goats, all congregated
together in a small bay, and literally separated from the world by the barren waste land above,
and the huge cliffs and restless sea below, would be beyond the scope of "N. & Q.," though
it is worth a note in passing, that for the tourist a visit to Marsden would be highly remunerative.

Peter Allan endured many hardships in his cave at Marsden. He was accused of smuggling, and
annoyed by the excise. He and his family were once shut in for six weeks by the snow, during
the whole of which time it was impossible for any human being to approach them. Yet in spite
of many hardships, Peter reared in the grotto a family of eight children, three daughters and
five sons, all of whom are living and prospering in the world. The grotto is still kept by
his widow, his {648} eldest son William, and one daughter, assisting Mrs. Allan in the management
The son William is an experienced blaster, and occupies himself in excavations and improvements;
the daughter, a brunette, is a first-rate shot, and a girl of extraordinary spirit and gaiety.
She is the Grace Darling of the neighbourhood, and both her and her mother have saved many
lives by their dexterity in boating and extraordinary courage. Peter himself was a bold, determined,
and honest man, fond of a joke, and passionately devoted to bees, birds, pigs, and dogs, many
of whom (pigs especially) used to follow him to Shields and Sunderland, when he went thither.
After twenty-two years' possession of the caverns, the proprietor of the adjoining land served
him with a process of ejectment; Peter refused to leave the habitation which he had formed
by twenty years' unremitting toil, and which he had actually won from the sea, without encroachment
on an inch of the mainland. After a tedious law-suit, judgment was given in his favour, but
he had to pay costs. The anxieties of this lawsuit broke his heart, and he never recovered
either health or spirits. He died on the 31st of August, 1849, in the 51st year of his age,
leaving his wife and eight children to lament him. He was buried in Whitburn churchyard, and
over his grave was placed a stone with the inscription:

 "The Lord is my rock and my salvation."

Numerous memorials of Peter exist at the grotto, and in the neighbourhood of Marsden. Particulars
of these and other matters touching this romantic history, may be obtained in No. 2. of Summer
Excursions to the North, published by Ward, of Newcastle; and in a paper entitled A Visit to
Marsden Rocks, contributed by myself to the Peoples Illustrated Journal, No. XIV.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

       *       *       *       *       *

"COULD WE WITH INK," ETC.

(Vol. viii., pp. 127. 180. 422.)

I think that your well-read correspondent J. W. THOMAS will agree with me that the bonâ fide
authorship of the beautiful lines alluded to must be ascertained, not by a single expression,
but by the whole of the charming poem. The striking expression of Mohammed, quoted by J. W.
THOMAS, is quite common amongst the Easterns even at the present day. I remember, when at Malta,
in March, 1848, whilst walking in company of the most accomplished Arabian of the day, the
conversation turned upon a certain individual who had since acquired a most unenviable notoriety
in the annals of British jurisprudence, my companion abruptly turned upon me, whilst at the
shore of the Mediterranean, and said, in his fascinating Arabic, "Behold this great sea! were
all its water turned into ink, it would be insufficient to describe the villany of the individual
you speak of."

Rabbi Mayir ben Isaac's poem corresponds not merely in a single expression, but in every one.
The Chaldee hymn has the ink and ocean, parchment and heavens, stalks and quills, mankind and
scribes, &c. Pray do me the favour to insert the original lines. I assure you that they are
well worthy of a place in "N. & Q." Here they are:

  [Hebrew: GBWRAN `ALMIYN LEIYH WLA' SIPEIQ PRIYSHWTA':]
  [Hebrew: GWIYL 'ILW RQIY`EIY QNY KAL CHWRSHATA':]
  [Hebrew: DYWO 'ILW YAMEIY WKAL MEIY KNIYSHWTA':]
  [Hebrew: DAYREIY 'AR`A' SAPREIY WRASHMEIY RASHWATA':]

MOSES MARGOLIOUTH.

Wybunbury.

In the Des Knaben Wunderhorn there is something of the same idea, though not quite to the same
purpose:

 "Und wenn der Himmel papyrige wär,
  Und e jede Sterne Schryber wär,
  Und jedere Schryber hat siebesiebe Hand,
  Ei schriebe doch alli mir Liebi Kesend!
          Dursli und Babeli."

G. H. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT DAY IS IT AT OUR ANTIPODES?

(Vol. viii., p. 102.)

This question was asked by H., and at p. 479. an answer to it was undertaken by ESTE. But,
probably from over-anxiety to be very brief, ESTE was betrayed into a most strange and unaccountable
misstatement, which ought to be set right before the conclusion of the volume; since, if correctness
be generally desirable in all communications to "N. & Q.," it is absolutely indispensable in
professed answers to required information. ESTE says:

    "A person sailing to our Antipodes westward will lose twelve hours; by
    sailing thither eastward he will gain twelve hours."

This is quite correct. But if one person lose twelve, and another gain twelve, the manifest
difference between them is twenty-four; and yet ESTE goes on to say:

    "If both meet together at the same hour, say eleven o'clock, the one
    will reckon 11 A.M., the other 11 P.M."

This is the misstatement. No two persons, by any correct system of reckoning, could arrive
at a result which would imply a physical impossibility; and it is needless to say that the
concurrence of A.M. and P.M. at the same time and place would come under that designation.
What ESTE should have said is, that both persons meeting {649} together on the same day, if
it be reckoned Monday by the one, it will be reckoned Tuesday by the other. They may differ
as to Monday or Tuesday, but they cannot rationally differ as to whether it is day or night.

It may be added that, no matter where these two persons might meet, whether at the Antipodes
or at any other place, still, upon comparing their journals, there would always appear a day's
difference between them; and if they were to keep continually sailing on, one always towards
the west, and the other always towards the east, every time they might meet or cross each other,
they would increase the difference between them by an additional day.

Whence it follows, that if two ships were to leave England on the same day, one sailing east
by the Cape of Good Hope, and the other west by Cape Horn, returning home respectively by the
opposite capes; and if both were to arrive again in England at the same time, there would be
found in the reckoning of the eastern vessel two entire days more than in that of the western
vessel. Nor would this difference be merely theoretic or imaginary; on the contrary, it would
be a real and substantial gain on the part of the eastern vessel: her crew would have consumed
two whole rations of breakfast, dinner, and supper, and swallowed two days' allowance of grog
more than the other crew; and they would have enjoyed two nights more sleep.

But all this is not an answer to H's question; what he wants to know is whether the day at
the Antipodes is twelve hours in advance or in arrear of our day and, whichever it is, why is it?

But here H. is not sufficiently explicit. His question relates to a practical fact, and therefore
he should have been more particular in designating the exact habitable place to which it referred.
Our Antipodes, strictly speaking, or rather the antipodal point to Greenwich Observatory, is
180° of east (or west) longitude, and 51° 28' &c. of south latitude. But this is not the only
point that differs by exactly twelve hours in time from Greenwich; all places lying beneath
the meridian of 180°, "our Periæci" as well as "our Antipodes," are similarly affected, and
to them the same question would be applicable. H. is right, however, in assuming that, with
respect to that meridian, the decision must be purely arbitrary. It is as though two men were
to keep moving round a circle in the same direction, with the same speed, and at diametrically
opposite points; it must be an arbitrary decision which would pronounce that either was in
advance, or in arrear, of the other.

Regarding, then, the meridian of 180° as the neutral point, the most rational system, so far
as British settlements are concerned, is to reckon longitude both ways, from 0° to 180°, east
and west from Greenwich; and to regard all west longitude as in arrear of British time, and
all east longitude as in advance of it. And this is the method practised by modern navigators.

It is not, however, in obedience to any preconceived system, but by pure accident, that our
settlements in Australia and New Zealand happen to be in accordance with this rule. The last-named
country is very close upon the verge of eastern longitude, but still it is within it, and its
day is rightly in advance of our day. But the first settlers to Botany Bay, in 1788, were actually
under orders to go out by Cape Horn, and were only forced by stress of weather to adopt the
opposite course by the Cape of Good Hope. Had they kept to their prescribed route, there cannot
be a doubt that the day of the week and month in Australia would now be a day later than it is.

The best proof of the truth of this assertion is, that a few years afterwards a missionary
expedition was sent out to Otaheite, with respect to which a precisely similar accident occurred;
they could not weather Cape Horn, and were forced to go round, some twice the distance out
of their way, by the Cape of Good Hope; consequently they carried with them what may be called
the eastern day, and since then that is the day observed at Otaheite, although fully two hours
within the western limit of longitude.

