Transcriber's Note:

          This is the first volume of the Six volume series

                          Life of Lord Byron
                     with his Letters and Journals

                                  by
                             Thomas Moore.

                   Links to the other five volumes.

   Volume Two. E-Text No.16570--http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/16570
   Volume Three. E-Text No.16548--http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/16548
   Volume Four. E-Text No.16549--http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/16549
   Volume Five. E-Text No.16609--http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/16609
   Volume Six. E-Text No.14841--http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/14841

                                 LIFE
                                  OF
                              LORD BYRON:

                    WITH HIS LETTERS AND JOURNALS.

                         BY THOMAS MOORE, ESQ.

                       IN SIX VOLUMES.--VOL. I.

                                LONDON
                     JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET
                                 1854.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

LETTERS AND JOURNALS OF LORD BYRON, WITH NOTICES OF HIS LIFE, TO THE PERIOD OF HIS RETURN FROM
THE CONTINENT, JULY, 1811.

TO

SIR WALTER SCOTT, BARONET,

THESE VOLUMES

ARE INSCRIBED

BY HIS AFFECTIONATE FRIEND,

THOMAS MOORE.

December, 1829.

PREFACE

TO THE

FIRST VOLUME OF THE FIRST EDITION.[1]

In presenting these Volumes to the public I should have felt, I own, considerable diffidence,
from a sincere distrust in my own powers of doing justice to such a task, were I not well convinced
that there is in the subject itself, and in the rich variety of materials here brought to illustrate
it, a degree of attraction and interest which it would be difficult, even for hands the most
unskilful, to extinguish. However lamentable were the circumstances under which Lord Byron
became estranged from his country, to his long absence from England, during the most brilliant
period of his powers, we are indebted for all those interesting letters which compose the greater
part of the Second Volume of this work, and which will be found equal, if not superior, in
point of vigour, variety, and liveliness, to any that have yet adorned this branch of our literature.

What has been said of Petrarch, that "his correspondence and verses together afford the progressive
interest of a narrative in which the poet is always identified with the man," will be found
applicable, in a far greater degree, to Lord Byron, in whom the literary and the personal character
were so closely interwoven, that to have left his works without the instructive commentary
which his Life and Correspondence afford, would have been equally an injustice both to himself
and to the world.

PREFACE

TO THE

SECOND VOLUME OF THE FIRST EDITION.

The favourable reception which I ventured to anticipate for the First Volume of this work has
been, to the full extent of my expectations, realised; and I may without scruple thus advert
to the success it has met with, being well aware that to the interest of the subject and the
materials, not to any merit of the editor, such a result is to be attributed. Among the less
agreeable, though not least valid, proofs of this success may be counted the attacks which,
from more than one quarter, the Volume has provoked;--attacks angry enough, it must be confessed,
but, from their very anger, impotent, and, as containing nothing whatever in the shape either
of argument or fact, not entitled, I may be pardoned for saying, to the slightest notice.

Of a very different description, both as regards the respectability of the source from whence
it comes, and the mysterious interest involved in its contents, is a document which made its
appearance soon after the former Volume,[2] and which I have annexed, without a single line
of comment, to the present;--contenting myself, on this painful subject, with entreating the
reader's attention to some extracts, as beautiful as they are, to my mind, convincing, from
an unpublished pamphlet of Lord Byron, which will be found in the following pages.[3]

Sanguinely as I was led to augur of the reception of our First Volume, of the success of that
which we now present to the public, I am disposed to feel even still more confident. Though
self-banished from England, it was plain that to England alone Lord Byron continued to look,
throughout the remainder of his days, not only as the natural theatre of his literary fame,
but as the tribunal to which all his thoughts, feelings, virtues, and frailties were to be
referred; and the exclamation of Alexander, "Oh, Athenians, how much it costs me to obtain
your praises!" might have been, with equal truth, addressed by the noble exile to his countrymen.
To keep the minds of the English public for ever occupied about him,--if not with his merits,
with his faults; if not in applauding, in blaming him,--was, day and night, the constant ambition
of his soul; and in the correspondence he so regularly maintained with his publisher, one of
the chief mediums through which this object was to be effected lay. Mr. Murray's house being
then, as now, the resort of most of those literary men who are, at the same time, men of the
world, his Lordship knew that whatever particulars he might wish to make public concerning
himself, would, if transmitted to that quarter, be sure to circulate from thence throughout
society. It was on this presumption that he but rarely, as we shall find him more than once
stating, corresponded with any others of his friends at home; and to the mere accident of my
having been, myself, away from England, at the time, was I indebted for the numerous and no
less interesting letters with which, during the same period, he honoured me, and which now
enrich this volume.

In these two sets of correspondence (given, as they are here, with as little suppression as
a regard to private feelings and to certain other considerations, warrants) will be found a
complete history, from the pen of the poet himself, of the course of his life and thoughts,
during this most energetic period of his whole career;--presenting altogether so wide a canvass
of animated and, often, unconscious self-portraiture, as even the communicative spirit of genius
has seldom, if ever, before bestowed on the world.

Some insinuations, calling into question the disinterestedness of the lady whose fate was connected
with that of Lord Byron during his latter years, having been brought forward, or rather revived,
in a late work, entitled "Galt's Life of Byron,"--a work wholly unworthy of the respectable
name it bears,--I may be allowed to adduce here a testimony on this subject, which has been
omitted in its proper place,[4] but which will be more than sufficient to set the idle calumny
at rest. The circumstance here alluded to may be most clearly, perhaps, communicated to my
readers through the medium of the following extract from a letter, which Mr. Barry (the friend
and banker of Lord Byron) did me the favour of addressing to me soon after his Lordship's death[5]:--"When
Lord Byron went to Greece, he gave me orders to advance money to Madame G----; but that lady
would never consent to receive any. His Lordship had also told me that he meant to leave his
will in my hands, and that there would be a bequest in it of 10,000l. to Madame G----. He mentioned
this circumstance also to Lord Blessington. When the melancholy news of his death reached me,
I took for granted that this will would be found among the sealed papers he had left with me;
but there was no such instrument. I immediately then wrote to Madame G----, enquiring if she
knew any thing concerning it, and mentioning, at the same time, what his Lordship had said
as to the legacy. To this the lady replied, that he had frequently spoken to her on the same
subject, but that she had always cut the conversation short, as it was a topic she by no means
liked to hear him speak upon. In addition, she expressed a wish that no such will as I had
mentioned would be found; as her circumstances were already sufficiently independent, and the
world might put a wrong construction on her attachment, should it appear that her fortunes
were, in any degree, bettered by it."

NOTICES

OF THE

LIFE OF LORD BYRON.

It has been said of Lord Byron, "that he was prouder of being a descendant of those Byrons
of Normandy, who accompanied William the Conqueror into England, than of having been the author
of Childe Harold and Manfred." This remark is not altogether unfounded in truth. In the character
of the noble poet, the pride of ancestry was undoubtedly one of the most decided features;
and, as far as antiquity alone gives lustre to descent, he had every reason to boast of the
claims of his race. In Doomsday-book, the name of Ralph de Burun ranks high among the tenants
of land in Nottinghamshire; and in the succeeding reigns, under the title of Lords of Horestan
Castle,[6] we find his descendants holding considerable possessions in Derbyshire; to which,
afterwards, in the time of Edward I., were added the lands of Rochdale in Lancashire. So extensive,
indeed, in those early times, was the landed wealth of the family, that the partition of their
property, in Nottinghamshire alone, has been sufficient to establish some of the first families
of the county.

Its antiquity, however, was not the only distinction by which the name of Byron came recommended
to its inheritor; those personal merits and accomplishments, which form the best ornament of
a genealogy, seem to have been displayed in no ordinary degree by some of his ancestors. In
one of his own early poems, alluding to the achievements of his race, he commemorates, with
much satisfaction, those "mail-covered barons" among them,

                             who proudly to battle
    Led their vassals from Europe to Palestine's plain.

Adding,

    Near Askalon's towers John of Horiston slumbers,
    Unnerved is the hand of his minstrel by death.

As there is no record, however, as far as I can discover, of any of his ancestors having been
engaged in the Holy Wars, it is possible that he may have had no other authority for this notion
than the tradition which he found connected with certain strange groups of heads, which are
represented on the old panel-work, in some of the chambers at Newstead. In one of these groups,
consisting of three heads, strongly carved and projecting from the panel, the centre figure
evidently represents a Saracen or Moor, with an European female on one side of him, and a Christian
soldier on the other. In a second group, which is in one of the bed-rooms, the female occupies
the centre, while on each side is the head of a Saracen, with the eyes fixed earnestly upon
her. Of the exact meaning of these figures there is nothing certain known; but the tradition
is, I understand, that they refer to some love-adventure, in which one of those crusaders,
of whom the young poet speaks, was engaged.

Of the more certain, or, at least, better known exploits of the family, it is sufficient, perhaps,
to say, that, at the siege of Calais under Edward III., and on the fields, memorable in their
respective eras, of Cressy, Bosworth, and Marston Moor, the name of the Byrons reaped honours
both of rank and fame, of which their young descendant has, in the verses just cited, shown
himself proudly conscious.

It was in the reign of Henry VIII., on the dissolution of the monasteries, that, by a royal
grant, the church and priory of Newstead, with the lands adjoining, were added to the other
possessions of the Byron family.[7] The favourite upon whom these spoils of the ancient religion
were conferred, was the grand-nephew of the gallant soldier who fought by the side of Richmond
at Bosworth, and is distinguished from the other knights of the same Christian name in the
family, by the title of "Sir John Byron the Little, with the great beard." A portrait of this
personage was one of the few family pictures with which the walls of the abbey, while in the
possession of the noble poet, were decorated.

At the coronation of James I. we find another representative of the family selected as an object
of royal favour,--the grandson of Sir John Byron the Little, being, on this occasion, made
a knight of the Bath. There is a letter to this personage, preserved in Lodge's Illustrations,
from which it appears, that notwithstanding all these apparent indications of prosperity, the
inroads of pecuniary embarrassment had already begun to be experienced by this ancient house.
After counselling the new heir as to the best mode of getting free of his debts, "I do therefore
advise you," continues the writer,[8] "that so soon as you have, in such sort as shall be fit,
finished your father's funerals, to dispose and disperse that great household, reducing them
to the number of forty or fifty, at the most, of all sorts; and, in my opinion, it will be
far better for you to live for a time in Lancashire rather than in Notts, for many good reasons
that I can tell you when we meet, fitter for words than writing."

From the following reign (Charles I.) the nobility of the family date its origin. In the year
1643, Sir John Byron, great grandson of him who succeeded to the rich domains of Newstead,
was created Baron Byron of Rochdale in the county of Lancaster; and seldom has a title been
bestowed for such high and honourable services as those by which this nobleman deserved the
gratitude of his royal master. Through almost every page of the History of the Civil Wars,
we trace his name in connection with the varying fortunes of the king, and find him faithful,
persevering, and disinterested to the last. "Sir John Biron," says the writer of Colonel Hutchinson's
Memoirs, "afterwards Lord Biron, and all his brothers, bred up in arms, and valiant men in
their own persons, were all passionately the king's." There is also, in the answer which Colonel
Hutchinson, when governor of Nottingham, returned, on one occasion, to his cousin-german, Sir
Richard Biron, a noble tribute to the valour and fidelity of the family. Sir Richard having
sent to prevail on his relative to surrender the castle, received for answer, that "except
he found his own heart prone to such treachery, he might consider there was, if nothing else,
so much of a Biron's blood in him, that he should very much scorn to betray or quit a trust
he had undertaken."

Such are a few of the gallant and distinguished personages, through whom the name and honours
of this noble house have been transmitted. By the maternal side also Lord Byron had to pride
himself on a line of ancestry as illustrious as any that Scotland can boast,--his mother, who
was one of the Gordons of Gight, having been a descendant of that Sir William Gordon who was
the third son of the Earl of Huntley, by the daughter of James I.

After the eventful period of the Civil Wars, when so many individuals of the house of Byron
distinguished themselves,--there having been no less than seven brothers of that family on
the field at Edgehill,--the celebrity of the name appears to have died away for near a century.
It was about the year 1750, that the shipwreck and sufferings of Mr. Byron[9] (the grandfather
of the illustrious subject of these pages) awakened, in no small degree, the attention and
sympathy of the public. Not long after, a less innocent sort of notoriety attached itself to
two other members of the family,--one, the grand-uncle of the poet, and the other, his father.
The former in the year 1765, stood his trial before the House of Peers for killing, in a duel,
or rather scuffle, his relation and neighbour Mr. Chaworth; and the latter, having carried
off to the Continent the wife of Lord Carmarthen, on the noble marquis obtaining a divorce
from the lady, married her. Of this short union one daughter only was the issue, the Honourable
Augusta Byron, now the wife of Colonel Leigh.

In reviewing thus cursorily the ancestors, both near and remote, of Lord Byron, it cannot fail
to be remarked how strikingly he combined in his own nature some of the best and, perhaps,
worst qualities that lie scattered through the various characters of his predecessors,--the
generosity, the love of enterprise, the high-mindedness of some of the better spirits of his
race, with the irregular passions, the eccentricity, and daring recklessness of the world's
opinion, that so much characterised others.

The first wife of the father of the poet having died in 1784, he, in the following year, married
Miss Catherine Gordon, only child and heiress of George Gordon, Esq. of Gight. In addition
to the estate of Gight, which had, however, in former times, been much more extensive, this
lady possessed, in ready money, bank shares, &c. no inconsiderable property; and it was known
to be solely with a view of relieving himself from his debts, that Mr. Byron paid his addresses
to her. A circumstance related, as having taken place before the marriage of this lady, not
only shows the extreme quickness and vehemence of her feelings, but, if it be true that she
had never at the time seen Captain Byron, is not a little striking. Being at the Edinburgh
theatre one night when the character of Isabella was performed by Mrs. Siddons, so affected
was she by the powers of this great actress, that, towards the conclusion of the play, she
fell into violent fits, and was carried out of the theatre, screaming loudly, "Oh, my Biron,
my Biron!"

On the occasion of her marriage there appeared a ballad by some Scotch rhymer, which has been
lately reprinted in a collection of the "Ancient Ballads and Songs of the North of Scotland;"
and as it bears testimony both to the reputation of the lady for wealth, and that of her husband
for rakery and extravagance, it may be worth extracting:--

    MISS GORDON OF GIGHT.

    O whare are ye gaen, bonny Miss Gordon?
      O whare are ye gaen, sae bonny an' braw?
    Ye've married, ye've married wi' Johnny Byron,
      To squander the lands o' Gight awa'.

    This youth is a rake, frae England he's come;
      The Scots dinna ken his extraction ava;
    He keeps up his misses, his landlord he duns,
      That's fast drawen' the lands o' Gight awa'.
                               O whare are ye gaen, &c.

    The shooten' o' guns, an' rattlin' o' drums,
      The bugle in woods, the pipes i' the ha',
    The beagles a howlin', the hounds a growlin';
      These soundings will soon gar Gight gang awa'.
                               O whare are ye gaen, &c.

Soon after the marriage, which took place, I believe, at Bath, Mr. Byron and his lady removed
to their estate in Scotland; and it was not long before the prognostics of this ballad-maker
began to be realised. The extent of that chasm of debt, in which her fortune was to be swallowed
up, now opened upon the eyes of the ill-fated heiress. The creditors of Mr. Byron lost no time
in pressing their demands; and not only was the whole of her ready money, bank shares, fisheries,
&c., sacrificed to satisfy them, but a large sum raised by mortgage on the estate for the same
purpose. In the summer of 1786, she and her husband left Scotland, to proceed to France; and
in the following year the estate of Gight itself was sold, and the whole of the purchase money
applied to the further payment of debts,--with the exception of a small sum vested in trustees
for the use of Mrs. Byron, who thus found herself, within the short space of two years, reduced
from competence to a pittance of 150l. per annum.[10]

From France Mrs. Byron returned to England at the close of the year 1787; and on the 22d of
January, 1788, gave birth, in Holles Street, London, to her first and only child, George Gordon
Byron. The name of Gordon was added in compliance with a condition imposed by will on whoever
should become husband of the heiress of Gight; and at the baptism of the child, the Duke of
Gordon, and Colonel Duff of Fetteresso, stood godfathers.

In reference to the circumstance of his being an only child, Lord Byron, in one of his journals,
mentions some curious coincidences in his family, which, to a mind disposed as his was to regard
every thing connected with himself as out of the ordinary course of events, would naturally
appear even more strange and singular than they are. "I have been thinking," he says, "of an
odd circumstance. My daughter (1), my wife (2), my half-sister (3), my mother (4), my sister's
mother (5), my natural daughter (6), and myself (7), are, or were, all only children. My sister's
mother (Lady Conyers) had only my half-sister by that second marriage, (herself, too, an only
child,) and my father had only me, an only child, by his second marriage with my mother, an
only child too. Such a complication of only children, all tending to one family, is singular
enough, and looks like fatality almost." He then adds, characteristically, "But the fiercest
animals have the fewest numbers in their litters, as lions, tigers, and even elephants, which
are mild in comparison."

From London, Mrs. Byron proceeded with her infant to Scotland; and, in the year 1790, took
up her residence in Aberdeen, where she was soon after joined by Captain Byron. Here for a
short time they lived together in lodgings at the house of a person named Anderson, in Queen
Street. But their union being by no means happy, a separation took place between them, and
Mrs. Byron removed to lodgings at the other end of the street.[11] Notwithstanding this schism,
they for some time continued to visit, and even to drink tea with each other; but the elements
of discord were strong on both sides, and their separation was, at last, complete and final.
He would frequently, however, accost the nurse and his son in their walks, and expressed a
strong wish to have the child for a day or two, on a visit with him. To this request Mrs. Byron
was, at first, not very willing to accede, but, on the representation of the nurse, that "if
he kept the boy one night, he would not do so another," she consented. The event proved as
the nurse had predicted; on enquiring next morning after the child, she was told by Captain
Byron that he had had quite enough of his young visitor, and she might take him home again.

It should be observed, however, that Mrs. Byron, at this period, was unable to keep more than
one servant, and that, sent as the boy was on this occasion to encounter the trial of a visit,
without the accustomed superintendence of his nurse, it is not so wonderful that he should
have been found, under such circumstances, rather an unmanageable guest. That as a child, his
temper was violent, or rather sullenly passionate, is certain. Even when in petticoats, he
showed the same uncontrollable spirit with his nurse, which he afterwards exhibited when an
author, with his critics. Being angrily reprimanded by her, one day, for having soiled or torn
a new frock in which he had been just dressed, he got into one of his "silent rages" (as he
himself has described them), seized the frock with both his hands, rent it from top to bottom,
and stood in sullen stillness, setting his censurer and her wrath at defiance.

But, notwithstanding this, and other such unruly outbreaks,--in which he was but too much encouraged
by the example of his mother, who frequently, it is said, proceeded to the same extremities
with her caps, gowns, &c.,--there was in his disposition, as appears from the concurrent testimony
of nurses, tutors, and all who were employed about him, a mixture of affectionate sweetness
and playfulness, by which it was impossible not to be attached; and which rendered him then,
as in his riper years, easily manageable by those who loved and understood him sufficiently
to be at once gentle and firm enough for the task. The female attendant of whom we have spoken,
as well as her sister, Mary Gray, who succeeded her, gained an influence over his mind against
which he very rarely rebelled; while his mother, whose capricious excesses, both of anger and
of fondness, left her little hold on either his respect or affection, was indebted solely to
his sense of filial duty for any small portion of authority she was ever able to acquire over him.

By an accident which, it is said, occurred at the time of his birth, one of his feet was twisted
out of its natural position, and this defect (chiefly from the contrivances employed to remedy
it) was a source of much pain and inconvenience to him during his early years. The expedients
used at this period to restore the limb to shape, were adopted by the advice, and under the
direction, of the celebrated John Hunter, with whom Dr. Livingstone of Aberdeen corresponded
on the subject; and his nurse, to whom fell the task of putting on these machines or bandages,
at bedtime, would often, as she herself told my informant, sing him to sleep, or tell him stories
and legends, in which, like most other children, he took great delight. She also taught him,
while yet an infant, to repeat a great number of the Psalms; and the first and twenty-third
Psalms were among the earliest that he committed to memory. It is a remarkable fact, indeed,
that through the care of this respectable woman, who was herself of a very religious disposition,
he attained a far earlier and more intimate acquaintance with the Sacred Writings than falls
to the lot of most young people. In a letter which he wrote to Mr. Murray, from Italy, in 1821
after requesting of that gentleman to send him, by the first opportunity, a Bible, he adds--"Don't
forget this, for I am a great reader and admirer of those books, and had read them through
and through before I was eight years old,--that is to say, the Old Testament, for the New struck
me as a task, but the other as a pleasure. I speak as a boy, from the recollected impression
of that period at Aberdeen, in 1796."

The malformation of his foot was, even at this childish age, a subject on which he showed peculiar
sensitiveness. I have been told by a gentleman of Glasgow, that the person who nursed his wife,
and who still lives in his family, used often to join the nurse of Byron when they were out
with their respective charges, and one day said to her, as they walked together, "What a pretty
boy Byron is! what a pity he has such a leg!" On hearing this allusion to his infirmity, the
child's eyes flashed with anger, and striking at her with a little whip which he held in his
hand, he exclaimed impatiently, "Dinna speak of it!" Sometimes, however, as in after life,
he could talk indifferently and even jestingly of this lameness; and there being another little
boy in the neighbourhood, who had a similar defect in one of his feet, Byron would say, laughingly,
"Come and see the twa laddies with the twa club feet going up the Broad Street."

Among many instances of his quickness and energy at this age, his nurse mentioned a little
incident that one night occurred, on her taking him to the theatre to see the "Taming of the
Shrew." He had attended to the performance, for some time, with silent interest; but, in the
scene between Catherine and Petruchio, where the following dialogue takes place,--

     Cath. I know it is the moon.
     Pet. Nay, then, you lie,--it is the blessed sun,--

little Geordie (as they called the child), starting from his seat, cried out boldly, "But I
say it is the moon, sir."

The short visit of Captain Byron to Aberdeen has already been mentioned, and he again passed
two or three months in that city, before his last departure for France. On both occasions,
his chief object was to extract still more money, if possible, from the unfortunate woman whom
he had beggared; and so far was he successful, that, during his last visit, narrow as were
her means, she contrived to furnish him with the money necessary for his journey to Valenciennes,[12]
where, in the following year, 1791, he died. Though latterly Mrs. Byron would not see her husband,
she entertained, it is said, a strong affection for him to the last; and on those occasions,
when the nurse used to meet him in her walks, would enquire of her with the tenderest anxiety
as to his health and looks. When the intelligence of his death, too, arrived, her grief, according
to the account of this same attendant, bordered on distraction, and her shrieks were so loud
as to be heard in the street. She was, indeed, a woman full of the most passionate extremes,
and her grief and affection were bursts as much of temper as of feeling. To mourn at all, however,
for such a husband was, it must be allowed, a most gratuitous stretch of generosity. Having
married her, as he openly avowed, for her fortune alone, he soon dissipated this, the solitary
charm she possessed for him, and was then unmanful enough to taunt her with the inconveniences
of that penury which his own extravagance had occasioned.

When not quite five years old, young Byron was sent to a day-school at Aberdeen, taught by
Mr. Bowers,[13] and remained there, with some interruptions, during a twelvemonth, as appears
by the following extract from the day-book of the school:--

     George Gordon Byron.
     19th November, 1792.
     19th November, 1793--paid one guinea.

The terms of this school for reading were only five shillings a quarter, and it was evidently
less with a view to the boy's advance in learning than as a cheap mode of keeping him quiet
that his mother had sent him to it. Of the progress of his infantine studies at Aberdeen, as
well under Mr. Bowers as under the various other persons that instructed him, we have the following
interesting particulars communicated by himself, in a sort of journal which he once began,
under the title of "My Dictionary," and which is preserved in one of his manuscript books.

"For several years of my earliest childhood, I was in that city, but have never revisited it
since I was ten years old. I was sent, at five years old, or earlier, to a school kept by a
Mr. Bowers, who was called 'Bodsy Bowers,' by reason of his dapperness. It was a school for
both sexes. I learned little there except to repeat by rote the first lesson of monosyllables
('God made man'--'Let us love him'), by hearing it often repeated, without acquiring a letter.
Whenever proof was made of my progress, at home, I repeated these words with the most rapid
fluency; but on turning over a new leaf, I continued to repeat them, so that the narrow boundaries
of my first year's accomplishments were detected, my ears boxed, (which they did not deserve,
seeing it was by ear only that I had acquired my letters,) and my intellects consigned to a
new preceptor. He was a very devout, clever, little clergyman, named Ross, afterwards minister
of one of the kirks (East, I think). Under him I made astonishing progress; and I recollect
to this day his mild manners and good-natured pains-taking. The moment I could read, my grand
passion was history, and, why I know not, but I was particularly taken with the battle near
the Lake Regillus in the Roman History, put into my hands the first. Four years ago, when standing
on the heights of Tusculum, and looking down upon the little round lake that was once Regillus,
and which dots the immense expanse below, I remembered my young enthusiasm and my old instructor.
Afterwards I had a very serious, saturnine, but kind young man, named Paterson, for a tutor.
He was the son of my shoemaker, but a good scholar, as is common with the Scotch. He was a
rigid Presbyterian also. With him I began Latin in 'Ruddiman's Grammar,' and continued till
I went to the 'Grammar School, (Scoticè, 'Schule; Aberdonicè, 'Squeel,') where I threaded all
the classes to the fourth, when I was recalled to England (where I had been hatched) by the
demise of my uncle. I acquired this handwriting, which I can hardly read myself, under the
fair copies of Mr. Duncan of the same city: I don't think he would plume himself much upon
my progress. However, I wrote much better then than I have ever done since. Haste and agitation
of one kind or another have quite spoilt as pretty a scrawl as ever scratched over a frank.
The grammar-school might consist of a hundred and fifty of all ages under age. It was divided
into five classes, taught by four masters, the chief teaching the fourth and fifth himself.
As in England, the fifth, sixth forms, and monitors, are heard by the head masters."

Of his class-fellows at the grammar-school there are many, of course, still alive, by whom
he is well remembered;[14] and the general impression they retain of him is, that he was a
lively, warm-hearted, and high-spirited boy--passionate and resentful, but affectionate and
companionable with his schoolfellows--to a remarkable degree venturous and fearless, and (as
one of them significantly expressed it) "always more ready to give a blow than take one." Among
many anecdotes illustrative of this spirit, it is related that once, in returning home from
school, he fell in with a boy who had on some former occasion insulted him, but had then got
off unpunished--little Byron, however, at the time, promising to "pay him off" whenever they
should meet again. Accordingly, on this second encounter, though there were some other boys
to take his opponent's part, he succeeded in inflicting upon him a hearty beating. On his return
home, breathless, the servant enquired what he had been about, and was answered by him with
a mixture of rage and humour, that he had been paying a debt, by beating a boy according to
promise; for that he was a Byron, and would never belie his motto, "Trust Byron."

He was, indeed, much more anxious to distinguish himself among his school-fellows by prowess
in all sports[15] and exercises, than by advancement in learning. Though quick, when he could
be persuaded to attend, or had any study that pleased him, he was in general very low in the
class, nor seemed ambitious of being promoted any higher. It is the custom, it seems, in this
seminary, to invert, now and then, the order of the class, so as to make the highest and lowest
boys change places,--with a view, no doubt, of piquing the ambition of both. On these occasions,
and only these, Byron was sometimes at the head, and the master, to banter him, would say,
"Now, George, man, let me see how soon you'll be at the foot again."[16]

During this period, his mother and he made, occasionally, visits among their friends, passing
some time at Fetteresso, the seat of his godfather, Colonel Duff, (where the child's delight
with a humorous old butler, named Ernest Fidler, is still remembered,) and also at Banff, where
some near connections of Mrs. Byron resided.

In the summer of the year 1796, after an attack of scarlet-fever, he was removed by his mother
for change of air into the Highlands; and it was either at this time, or in the following year,
that they took up their residence at a farm-house in the neighbourhood of Ballater, a favourite
summer resort for health and gaiety, about forty miles up the Dee from Aberdeen. Though this
house, where they still show with much pride the bed in which young Byron slept, has become
naturally a place of pilgrimage for the worshippers of genius, neither its own appearance,
nor that of the small bleak valley, in which it stands, is at all worthy of being associated
with the memory of a poet. Within a short distance of it, however, all those features of wildness
and beauty, which mark the course of the Dee through the Highlands, may be commanded. Here
the dark summit of Lachin-y-gair stood towering before the eyes of the future bard; and the
verses in which, not many years afterwards, he commemorated this sublime object, show that,
young as he was, at the time, its "frowning glories" were not unnoticed by him.[17]

    Ah, there my young footsteps in infancy wandered,
      My cap was the bonnet, my cloak was the plaid;
    On chieftains long perish'd my memory ponder'd
      As daily I strode through the pine-cover'd glade.
    I sought not my home till the day's dying glory
      Gave place to the rays of the bright polar-star;
    For Fancy was cheer'd by traditional story,
      Disclosed by the natives of dark Loch-na-gar.

To the wildness and grandeur of the scenes, among which his childhood was passed, it is not
unusual to trace the first awakening of his poetic talent. But it may be questioned whether
this faculty was ever so produced. That the charm of scenery, which derives its chief power
from fancy and association, should be much felt at an age when fancy is yet hardly awake, and
associations but few, can with difficulty, even making every allowance for the prematurity
of genius, be conceived. The light which the poet sees around the forms of nature is not so
much in the objects themselves as in the eye that contemplates them; and Imagination must first
be able to lend a glory to such scenes, before she can derive inspiration from them. As materials,
indeed, for the poetic faculty, when developed, to work upon, these impressions of the new
and wonderful retained from childhood, and retained with all the vividness of recollection
which belongs to genius, may form, it is true, the purest and most precious part of that aliment,
with which the memory of the poet feeds his imagination. But still, it is the newly-awakened
power within him that is the source of the charm;--it is the force of fancy alone that, acting
upon his recollections, impregnates, as it were, all the past with poesy. In this respect,
such impressions of natural scenery as Lord Byron received in his childhood must be classed
with the various other remembrances which that period leaves behind--of its innocence, its
sports, its first hopes and affections--all of them reminiscences which the poet afterwards
converts to his use, but which no more make the poet than--to apply an illustration of Byron's
own--the honey can be said to make the bee that treasures it.

When it happens--as was the case with Lord Byron in Greece--that the same peculiar features
of nature, over which Memory has shed this reflective charm, are reproduced before the eyes
under new and inspiring circumstances, and with all the accessories which an imagination, in
its full vigour and wealth, can lend them, then, indeed, do both the past and present combine
to make the enchantment complete; and never was there a heart more borne away by this confluence
of feelings than that of Byron. In a poem, written about a year or two before his death,[18]
he traces all his enjoyment of mountain scenery to the impressions received during his residence
in the Highlands; and even attributes the pleasure which he experienced in gazing upon Ida
and Parnassus, far less to classic remembrances, than to those fond and deep-felt associations
by which they brought back the memory of his boyhood and Lachin-y-gair.

    He who first met the Highland's swelling blue,
    Will love each peak that shows a kindred hue,
    Hail in each crag a friend's familiar face,
    And clasp the mountain in his mind's embrace.
    Long have I roam'd through lands which are not mine,
    Adored the Alp, and loved the Apennine,
    Revered Parnassus, and beheld the steep
    Jove's Ida and Olympus crown the deep:
    But 'twas not all long ages' lore, nor all
    Their nature held me in their thrilling thrall;
    The infant rapture still survived the boy,
    And Loch-na-gar with Ida look'd o'er Troy,
    Mix'd Celtic memories with the Phrygian mount,
    And Highland linns with Castalie's clear fount.

In a note appended to this passage, we find him falling into that sort of anachronism in the
history of his own feelings, which I have above adverted to as not uncommon, and referring
to childhood itself that love of mountain prospects, which was but the after result of his
imaginative recollections of that period.

"From this period" (the time of his residence in the Highlands) "I date my love of mountainous
countries. I can never forget the effect, a few years afterwards in England, of the only thing
I had long seen, even in miniature, of a mountain, in the Malvern Hills. After I returned to
Cheltenham, I used to watch them every afternoon at sunset, with a sensation which I cannot
describe." His love of solitary rambles, and his taste for exploring in all directions, led
him not unfrequently so far, as to excite serious apprehensions for his safety. While at Aberdeen,
he used often to steal from home unperceived;--sometimes he would find his way to the sea-side;
and once, after a long and anxious search, they found the adventurous little rover struggling
in a sort of morass or marsh, from which he was unable to extricate himself.

In the course of one of his summer excursions up Dee-side, he had an opportunity of seeing
still more of the wild beauties of the Highlands than even the neighbourhood of their residence
at Ballatrech afforded, --having been taken by his mother through the romantic passes that
lead to Invercauld, and as far up as the small waterfall, called the Linn of Dee. Here his
love of adventure had nearly cost him his life. As he was scrambling along a declivity that
overhung the fall, some heather caught his lame foot, and he fell. Already he was rolling downward,
when the attendant luckily caught hold of him, and was but just in time to save him from being
killed. It was about this period, when he was not quite eight years old, that a feeling partaking
more of the nature of love than it is easy to believe possible in so young a child, took, according
to his own account, entire possession of his thoughts, and showed how early, in this passion,
as in most others, the sensibilities of his nature were awakened.[19] The name of the object
of this attachment was Mary Duff; and the following passage from a Journal, kept by him in
1813, will show how freshly, after an interval of seventeen years, all the circumstances of
this early love still lived in his memory:--

"I have been thinking lately a good deal of Mary Duff. How very odd that I should have been
so utterly, devotedly fond of that girl, at an age when I could neither feel passion, nor know
the meaning of the word. And the effect!--My mother used always to rally me about this childish
amour; and, at last, many years after, when I was sixteen, she told me one day, 'Oh, Byron,
I have had a letter from Edinburgh, from Miss Abercromby, and your old sweetheart Mary Duff
is married to a Mr. Co^e.' And what was my answer? I really cannot explain or account for my
feelings at that moment; but they nearly threw me into convulsions, and alarmed my mother so
much, that after I grew better, she generally avoided the subject--to me--and contented herself
with telling it to all her acquaintance. Now, what could this be? I had never seen her since
her mother's faux-pas at Aberdeen had been the cause of her removal to her grandmother's at
Banff; we were both the merest children. I had and have been attached fifty times since that
period; yet I recollect all we said to each other, all our caresses, her features, my restlessness,
sleeplessness, my tormenting my mother's maid to write for me to her, which she at last did,
to quiet me. Poor Nancy thought I was wild, and, as I could not write for myself, became my
secretary. I remember, too, our walks, and the happiness of sitting by Mary, in the children's
apartment, at their house not far from the Plain-stones at Aberdeen, while her lesser sister
Helen played with the doll, and we sat gravely making love, in our way.

"How the deuce did all this occur so early? where could it originate? I certainly had no sexual
ideas for years afterwards; and yet my misery, my love for that girl were so violent, that
I sometimes doubt if I have ever been really attached since. Be that as it may, hearing of
her marriage several years after was like a thunder-stroke--it nearly choked me--to the horror
of my mother and the astonishment and almost incredulity of every body. And it is a phenomenon
in my existence (for I was not eight years old) which has puzzled, and will puzzle me to the
latest hour of it; and lately, I know not why, the recollection (not the attachment) has recurred
as forcibly as ever. I wonder if she can have the least remembrance of it or me? or remember
her pitying sister Helen for not having an admirer too? How very pretty is the perfect image
of her in my memory--her brown, dark hair, and hazel eyes; her very dress! I should be quite
grieved to see her now; the reality, however beautiful, would destroy, or at least confuse,
the features of the lovely Peri which then existed in her, and still lives in my imagination,
at the distance of more than sixteen years. I am now twenty-five and odd months....

"I think my mother told the circumstances (on my hearing of her marriage) to the Parkynses,
and certainly to the Pigot family, and probably mentioned it in her answer to Miss A., who
was well acquainted with my childish penchant, and had sent the news on purpose for me,--and
thanks to her!

"Next to the beginning, the conclusion has often occupied my reflections, in the way of investigation.
That the facts are thus, others know as well as I, and my memory yet tells me so, in more than
a whisper. But, the more I reflect, the more I am bewildered to assign any cause for this precocity
of affection."

Though the chance of his succession to the title of his ancestors was for some time altogether
uncertain--there being, so late as the year 1794, a grandson of the fifth lord still alive--his
mother had, from his very birth, cherished a strong persuasion that he was destined not only
to be a lord, but "a great man." One of the circumstances on which she founded this belief
was, singularly enough, his lameness;--for what reason it is difficult to conceive, except
that, possibly (having a mind of the most superstitious cast), she had consulted on the subject
some village fortune-teller, who, to ennoble this infirmity in her eyes, had linked the future
destiny of the child with it.

By the death of the grandson of the old lord at Corsica in 1794, the only claimant, that had
hitherto stood between little George and the immediate succession to the peerage, was removed;
and the increased importance which this event conferred upon them was felt not only by Mrs.
Byron, but by the young future Baron of Newstead himself. In the winter of 1797, his mother
having chanced, one day, to read part of a speech spoken in the House of Commons, a friend
who was present said to the boy, "We shall have the pleasure, some time or other, of reading
your speeches in the House of Commons."--"I hope not," was his answer: "if you read any speeches
of mine, it will be in the House of Lords."

The title, of which he thus early anticipated the enjoyment, devolved to him but too soon.
Had he been left to struggle on for ten years longer, as plain George Byron, there can be little
doubt that his character would have been, in many respects, the better for it. In the following
year his grand-uncle, the fifth Lord Byron, died at Newstead Abbey, having passed the latter
years of his strange life in a state of austere and almost savage seclusion. It is said, that
the day after little Byron's accession to the title, he ran up to his mother and asked her,
"whether she perceived any difference in him since he had been made a lord, as he perceived
none himself:"--a quick and natural thought; but the child little knew what a total and talismanic
change had been wrought in all his future relations with society, by the simple addition of
that word before his name. That the event, as a crisis in his life, affected him, even at that
time, may be collected from the agitation which he is said to have manifested on the important
morning, when his name was first called out in school with the title of "Dominus" prefixed
to it. Unable to give utterance to the usual answer "adsum," he stood silent amid the general
stare of his school-fellows, and, at last, burst into tears.

The cloud, which, to a certain degree, undeservedly, his unfortunate affray with Mr. Chaworth
had thrown upon the character of the late Lord Byron, was deepened and confirmed by what it,
in a great measure, produced,--the eccentric and unsocial course of life to which he afterwards
betook himself. Of his cruelty to Lady Byron, before her separation from him, the most exaggerated
stories are still current in the neighbourhood; and it is even believed that, in one of his
fits of fury, he flung her into the pond at Newstead. On another occasion, it is said, having
shot his coachman for some disobedience of orders, he threw the corpse into the carriage to
his lady, and, mounting the box, drove off himself. These stories are, no doubt, as gross fictions
as some of those of which his illustrious successor was afterwards made the victim; and a female
servant of the old lord, still alive, in contradicting both tales as scandalous fabrications,
supposes the first to have had its origin in the following circumstance:--A young lady, of
the name of Booth, who was on a visit at Newstead, being one evening with a party who were
diverting themselves in front of the abbey, Lord Byron by accident pushed her into the basin
which receives the cascades; and out of this little incident, as my informant very plausibly
conjectures, the tale of his attempting to drown Lady Byron may have been fabricated.

After his lady had separated from him, the entire seclusion in which he lived gave full scope
to the inventive faculties of his neighbours. There was no deed, however dark or desperate,
that the village gossips were not ready to impute to him; and two grim images of satyrs, which
stood in his gloomy garden, were, by the fears of those who had caught a glimpse of them, dignified
by the name of "the old lord's devils." He was known always to go armed; and it is related
that, on some particular occasion, when his neighbour, the late Sir John Warren, was admitted
to dine with him, there was a case of pistols placed, as if forming a customary part of the
dinner service, on the table.

During his latter years, the only companions of his solitude--besides that colony of crickets,
which he is said to have amused himself with rearing and feeding[20]--were old Murray, afterwards
the favourite servant of his successor, and the female domestic, whose authority I have just
quoted, and who, from the station she was suspected of being promoted to by her noble master,
received generally through the neighbourhood the appellation of "Lady Betty."

Though living in this sordid and solitary style, he was frequently, as it appears, much distressed
for money; and one of the most serious of the injuries inflicted by him upon the property was
his sale of the family estate of Rochdale in Lancashire, of which the mineral produce was accounted
very valuable. He well knew, it is said, at the time of the sale, his inability to make out
a legal title; nor is it supposed that the purchasers themselves were unacquainted with the
defect of the conveyance. But they contemplated, and, it seems, actually did realise, an indemnity
from any pecuniary loss, before they could, in the ordinary course of events, be dispossessed
of the property. During the young lord's minority, proceedings were instituted for the recovery
of this estate, and as the reader will learn hereafter with success.

At Newstead, both the mansion and the grounds around it were suffered to fall helplessly into
decay; and among the few monuments of either care or expenditure which their lord left behind,
were some masses of rockwork, on which much cost had been thrown away, and a few castellated
buildings on the banks of the lake and in the woods. The forts upon the lake were designed
to give a naval appearance to its waters, and frequently, in his more social days, he used
to amuse himself with sham fights,--his vessels attacking the forts, and being cannonaded by
them in return. The largest of these vessels had been built for him at some seaport on the
eastern coast, and, being conveyed on wheels over the Forest to Newstead, was supposed to have
fulfilled one of the prophecies of Mother Shipton, which declared that "when a ship laden with
ling should cross over Sherwood Forest, the Newstead estate would pass from the Byron family."
In Nottinghamshire, "ling" is the term used for heather; and, in order to bear out Mother Shipton
and spite the old lord, the country people, it is said, ran along by the side of the vessel,
heaping it with heather all the way.

This eccentric peer, it is evident, cared but little about the fate of his descendants. With
his young heir in Scotland he held no communication whatever; and if at any time he happened
to mention him, which but rarely occurred, it was never under any other designation than that
of "the little boy who lives at Aberdeen."

On the death of his grand-uncle, Lord Byron having become a ward of chancery, the Earl of Carlisle,
who was in some degree connected with the family, being the son of the deceased lord's sister,
was appointed his guardian; and in the autumn of 1798, Mrs. Byron and her son, attended by
their faithful Mary Gray, left Aberdeen for Newstead. Previously to their departure, the furniture
of the humble lodgings which they had occupied was, with the exception of the plate and linen,
which Mrs. Byron took with her, sold, and the whole sum that the effects of the mother of the
Lord of Newstead yielded was 74l. 17s. 7d.

From the early age at which Byron was taken to Scotland, as well as from the circumstance of
his mother being a native of that country, he had every reason to consider himself--as, indeed,
he boasts in Don Juan--"half a Scot by birth, and bred a whole one." We have already seen how
warmly he preserved through life his recollection of the mountain scenery in which he was brought
up; and in the passage of Don Juan, to which I have just referred, his allusion to the romantic
bridge of Don, and to other localities of Aberdeen, shows an equal fidelity and fondness of
retrospect:--

    As Auld Lang Syne brings Scotland, one and all,
      Scotch plaids, Scotch snoods, the blue hills and clear streams,
    The Dee, the Don, Balgounie's brig's black wall,
      All my boy feelings, all my gentler dreams
    Of what I then dreamt, clothed in their own pall,
      Like Banquo's offspring;--floating past me seems
    My childhood in this childishness of mine;
    I care not--'tis a glimpse of "Auld Lang Syne."

He adds in a note, "The Brig of Don, near the 'auld town' of Aberdeen, with its one arch and
its black deep salmon stream, is in my memory as yesterday. I still remember, though perhaps
I may misquote the awful proverb which made me pause to cross it, and yet lean over it with
a childish delight, being an only son, at least by the mother's side. The saying, as recollected
by me, was this, but I have never heard or seen it since I was nine years of age:--

    "'Brig of Balgounie, black's your wa',
    Wi' a wife's ae son, and a mear's ae foal,
    Down ye shall fa'.'"[21]

To meet with an Aberdonian was, at all times, a delight to him; and when the late Mr. Scott,
who was a native of Aberdeen, paid him a visit at Venice in the year 1819, in talking of the
haunts of his childhood, one of the places he particularly mentioned was Wallace-nook, a spot
where there is a rude statue of the Scottish chief still standing. From first to last, indeed,
these recollections of the country of his youth never forsook him. In his early voyage into
Greece, not only the shapes of the mountains, but the kilts and hardy forms of the Albanese,--all,
as he says, "carried him back to Morven;" and, in his last fatal expedition, the dress which
he himself chiefly wore at Cephalonia was a tartan jacket.

Cordial, however, and deep as were the impressions which he retained of Scotland, he would
sometimes in this, as in all his other amiable feelings, endeavour perversely to belie his
own better nature; and, when under the excitement of anger or ridicule, persuade not only others,
but even himself, that the whole current of his feelings ran directly otherwise. The abuse
with which, in his anger against the Edinburgh Review, he overwhelmed every thing Scotch, is
an instance of this temporary triumph of wilfulness; and, at any time, the least association
of ridicule with the country or its inhabitants was sufficient, for the moment, to put all
his sentiment to flight. A friend of his once described to me the half playful rage, into which
she saw him thrown, one day, by a heedless girl, who remarked that she thought he had a little
of the Scotch accent. "Good God, I hope not!" he exclaimed. "I'm sure I haven't. I would rather
the whole d----d country was sunk in the sea--I the Scotch accent!"

To such sallies, however, whether in writing or conversation, but little weight is to be allowed,--particularly,
in comparison with those strong testimonies which he has left on record of his fondness for
his early home; and while, on his side, this feeling so indelibly existed, there is, on the
part of the people of Aberdeen, who consider him as almost their fellow-townsman, a correspondent
warmth of affection for his memory and name. The various houses where he resided in his youth
are pointed out to the traveller; to have seen him but once is a recollection boasted of with
pride; and the Brig of Don, beautiful in itself, is invested, by his mere mention of it, with
an additional charm. Two or three years since, the sum of five pounds was offered to a person
in Aberdeen for a letter which he had in his possession, written by Captain Byron a few days
before his death; and, among the memorials of the young poet, which are treasured up by individuals
of that place, there is one which it would have not a little amused himself to hear of, being
no less characteristic a relic than an old china saucer, out of which he had bitten a large
piece, in a fit of passion, when a child.

It was in the summer of 1798, as I have already said, that Lord Byron, then in his eleventh
year, left Scotland with his mother and nurse, to take possession of the ancient seat of his
ancestors. In one of his latest letters, referring to this journey, he says, "I recollect Loch
Leven as it were but yesterday--I saw it in my way to England in 1798." They had already arrived
at the Newstead toll-bar, and saw the woods of the Abbey stretching out to receive them, when
Mrs. Byron, affecting to be ignorant of the place, asked the woman of the toll-house--to whom
that seat belonged? She was told that the owner of it, Lord Byron, had been some months dead.
"And who is the next heir?" asked the proud and happy mother. "They say," answered the woman,
"it is a little boy who lives at Aberdeen."--"And this is he, bless him!" exclaimed the nurse,
no longer able to contain herself, and turning to kiss with delight the young lord who was
seated on her lap.

Even under the most favourable circumstances, such an early elevation to rank would be but
too likely to have a dangerous influence on the character; and the guidance under which young
Byron entered upon his new station was, of all others, the least likely to lead him safely
through its perils and temptations. His mother, without judgment or self-command, alternately
spoiled him by indulgence, and irritated, or--what was still worse--amused him by her violence.
That strong sense of the ridiculous, for which he was afterwards so remarkable, and which showed
itself thus early, got the better even of his fear of her; and when Mrs. Byron, who was a short
and corpulent person, and rolled considerably in her gait, would, in a rage, endeavour to catch
him, for the purpose of inflicting punishment, the young urchin, proud of being able to out-strip
her, notwithstanding his lameness, would run round the room, laughing like a little Puck, and
mocking at all her menaces. In a few anecdotes of his early life which he related in his "Memoranda,"
though the name of his mother was never mentioned but with respect, it was not difficult to
perceive that the recollections she had left behind--at least, those that had made the deepest
impression--were of a painful nature. One of the most striking passages, indeed, in the few
pages of that Memoir which related to his early days, was where, in speaking of his own sensitiveness,
on the subject of his deformed foot, he described the feeling of horror and humiliation that
came over him, when his mother, in one of her fits of passion, called him "a lame brat." As
all that he had felt strongly through life was, in some shape or other, reproduced in his poetry,
it was not likely that an expression such as this should fail of being recorded. Accordingly
we find, in the opening of his drama, "The Deformed Transformed,"

     Bertha. Out, hunchback!
     Arnold. I was born so, mother!

It may be questioned, indeed, whether that whole drama was not indebted for its origin to this
single recollection.

While such was the character of the person under whose immediate eye his youth was passed,
the counteraction which a kind and watchful guardian might have opposed to such example and
influence was almost wholly lost to him. Connected but remotely with the family, and never
having had any opportunity of knowing the boy, it was with much reluctance that Lord Carlisle
originally undertook the trust; nor can we wonder that, when his duties as a guardian brought
him acquainted with Mrs. Byron, he should be deterred from interfering more than was absolutely
necessary for the child by his fear of coming into collision with the violence and caprice
of the mother.

Had even the character which the last lord left behind been sufficiently popular to pique his
young successor into an emulation of his good name, such a salutary rivalry of the dead would
have supplied the place of living examples; and there is no mind in which such an ambition
would have been more likely to spring up than that of Byron. But unluckily, as we have seen,
this was not the case; and not only was so fair a stimulus to good conduct wanting, but a rivalry
of a very different nature substituted in its place. The strange anecdotes told of the last
lord by the country people, among whom his fierce and solitary habits had procured for him
a sort of fearful renown, were of a nature livelily to arrest the fancy of the young poet,
and even to waken in his mind a sort of boyish admiration for singularities which he found
thus elevated into matters of wonder and record. By some it has been even supposed that in
these stories of his eccentric relative his imagination found the first dark outlines of that
ideal character, which he afterwards embodied in so many different shapes, and ennobled by
his genius. But however this may be, it is at least far from improbable that, destitute as
he was of other and better models, the peculiarities of his immediate predecessor should, in
a considerable degree, have influenced his fancy and tastes. One habit, which he seems early
to have derived from this spirit of imitation, and which he retained through life, was that
of constantly having arms of some description about or near him--it being his practice, when
quite a boy, to carry, at all times, small loaded pistols in his waistcoat pockets. The affray,
indeed, of the late lord with Mr. Chaworth had, at a very early age, by connecting duelling
in his mind with the name of his race, led him to turn his attention to this mode of arbitrament;
and the mortification which he had, for some time, to endure at school, from insults, as he
imagined, hazarded on the presumption of his physical inferiority, found consolation in the
thought that a day would yet arrive when the law of the pistol would place him on a level with
the strongest.

On their arrival from Scotland, Mrs. Byron, with the hope of having his lameness removed, placed
her son under the care of a person, who professed the cure of such cases, at Nottingham. The
name of this man, who appears to have been a mere empirical pretender, was Lavender; and the
manner in which he is said to have proceeded was by first rubbing the foot over, for a considerable
time, with handsful of oil, and then twisting the limb forcibly round, and screwing it up in
a wooden machine. That the boy might not lose ground in his education during this interval,
he received lessons in Latin from a respectable schoolmaster, Mr. Rogers, who read parts of
Virgil and Cicero with him, and represents his proficiency to have been, for his age, considerable.

This gentleman, who speaks with the most affectionate remembrance of his pupil, mentions several
instances of the gaiety of spirit with which he used to take revenge on his tormentor, Lavender,
by exposing and laughing at his pompous ignorance. Among other tricks, he one day scribbled
down on a sheet of paper all the letters of the alphabet, put together at random, but in the
form of words and sentences, and, placing them before this all-pretending person, asked him
gravely what language it was. The quack, unwilling to own his ignorance, answered confidently,
"Italian,"--to the infinite delight, as it may be supposed, of the little satirist in embryo,
who burst into a loud, triumphant laugh at the success of the trap which he had thus laid for
imposture.

With that mindfulness towards all who had been about him in his youth, which was so distinguishing
a trait in his character, he, many years after, when in the neighbourhood of Nottingham, sent
a message, full of kindness, to his old instructor, and bid the bearer of it tell him, that,
beginning from a certain line in Virgil which he mentioned, he could recite twenty verses on,
which he well remembered having read with this gentleman, when suffering all the time the most
dreadful pain.

It was about this period, according to his nurse, May Gray, that the first symptom of any tendency
towards rhyming showed itself in him; and the occasion which she represented as having given
rise to this childish effort was as follows:--An elderly lady, who was in the habit of visiting
his mother, had made use of some expression that very much affronted him; and these slights,
his nurse said, he generally resented violently and implacably. The old lady had some curious
notions respecting the soul, which, she imagined, took its flight to the moon after death,
as a preliminary essay before it proceeded further. One day, after a repetition, it is supposed,
of her original insult to the boy, he appeared before his nurse in a violent rage. "Well, my
little hero," she asked, "what's the matter with you now?" Upon which the child answered, that
"this old woman had put him in a most terrible passion--that he could not bear the sight of
her," &c. &c.--and then broke out into the following doggerel, which he repeated over and over,
as if delighted with the vent he had found for his rage:--

    In Nottingham county there lives at Swan Green,
    As curst an old lady as ever was seen;
    And when she does die, which I hope will be soon,
    She firmly believes she will go to the moon.

It is possible that these rhymes may have been caught up at second-hand; and he himself, as
will presently be seen, dated his "first dash into poetry," as he calls it, a year later:--but
the anecdote altogether, as containing some early dawnings of character, appeared to me worth
preserving.

The small income of Mrs. Byron received at this time the addition--most seasonable, no doubt,
though on what grounds accorded, I know not--of a pension on the Civil List, of 300l. a year.
The following is a copy of the King's warrant for the grant:--(Signed)

     "GEORGE R.

     "WHEREAS we are graciously pleased to grant unto Catharine
     Gordon Byron, widow, an annuity of 300l., to commence from
     5th July, 1799, and to continue during pleasure: our will
     and pleasure is, that, by virtue of our general letters of
     Privy Seal, bearing date 5th November, 1760, you do issue
     and pay out of our treasure, or revenue in the receipt of
     the Exchequer, applicable to the uses of our civil
     government, unto the said Catharine Gordon Byron, widow, or
     her assignees, the said annuity, to commence from 5th July,
     1799, and to be paid quarterly, or otherwise, as the same
     shall become due, and to continue during our pleasure; and
     for so doing this shall be your warrant. Given at our Court
     of St. James's, 2d October, 1799, 39th year of our reign.

     "By His Majesty's command,

                                              (Signed) "W. PITT.

                                                    "S. DOUGLAS.

     "EDW^D. ROBERTS, Dep. Cler^us. Pellium."

Finding but little benefit from the Nottingham practitioner, Mrs. Byron, in the summer of the
year 1799, thought it right to remove her boy to London, where, at the suggestion of Lord Carlisle,
he was put under the care of Dr. Baillie. It being an object, too, to place him at some quiet
school, where the means adopted for the cure of his infirmity might be more easily attended
to, the establishment of the late Dr. Glennie, at Dulwich, was chosen for that purpose; and
as it was thought advisable that he should have a separate apartment to sleep in, Dr. Glennie
had a bed put up for him in his own study. Mrs. Byron, who had remained a short time behind
him at Newstead, on her arrival in town took a house upon Sloane Terrace; and, under the direction
of Dr. Baillie, one of the Messrs. Sheldrake[22] was employed to construct an instrument for
the purpose of straightening the limb of the child. Moderation in all athletic exercises was,
of course, prescribed; but Dr. Glennie found it by no means easy to enforce compliance with
this rule, as, though sufficiently quiet when along with him in his study, no sooner was the
boy released for play, than he showed as much ambition to excel in all exercises as the most
robust youth of the school;--"an ambition," adds Dr. Glennie, in the communication with which
he favoured me a short time before his death, "which I have remarked to prevail in general
in young persons labouring under similar defects of nature."[23]

Having been instructed in the elements of Latin grammar according to the mode of teaching adopted
at Aberdeen, the young student had now unluckily to retrace his steps, and was, as is too often
the case, retarded in his studies and perplexed in his recollections, by the necessity of toiling
through the rudiments again in one of the forms prescribed by the English schools. "I found
him enter upon his tasks," says Dr. Glennie, "with alacrity and success. He was playful, good-humoured,
and beloved by his companions. His reading in history and poetry was far beyond the usual standard
of his age, and in my study he found many books open to him, both to please his taste and gratify
his curiosity; among others, a set of our poets from Chaucer to Churchill, which I am almost
tempted to say he had more than once perused from beginning to end. He showed at this age an
intimate acquaintance with the historical parts of the Holy Scriptures, upon which he seemed
delighted to converse with me, especially after our religious exercises of a Sunday evening;
when he would reason upon the facts contained in the Sacred Volume with every appearance of
belief in the divine truths which they unfold. That the impressions," adds the writer, "thus
imbibed in his boyhood, had, notwithstanding the irregularities of his after life, sunk deep
into his mind, will appear, I think, to every impartial reader of his works in general; and
I never have been able to divest myself of the persuasion that, in the strange aberrations
which so unfortunately marked his subsequent career, he must have found it difficult to violate
the better principles early instilled into him."

It should have been mentioned, among the traits which I have recorded of his still earlier
years, that, according to the character given of him by his first nurse's husband, he was,
when a mere child, "particularly inquisitive and puzzling about religion."

It was not long before Dr. Glennie began to discover--what instructors of youth must too often
experience--that the parent was a much more difficult subject to deal with than the child.
Though professing entire acquiescence in the representations of this gentleman, as to the propriety
of leaving her son to pursue his studies without interruption, Mrs. Byron had neither sense
nor self-denial enough to act up to these professions; but, in spite of the remonstrances of
Dr. Glennie, and the injunctions of Lord Carlisle, continued to interfere with and thwart the
progress of the boy's education in every way that a fond, wrong-headed, and self-willed mother
could devise. In vain was it stated to her that, in all the elemental parts of learning which
are requisite for a youth destined to a great public school, young Byron was much behind other
youths of his age, and that, to retrieve this deficiency, the undivided application of his
whole time would be necessary. Though appearing to be sensible of the truth of these suggestions,
she not the less embarrassed and obstructed the teacher in his task. Not content with the interval
between Saturday and Monday, which, contrary to Dr. Glennie's wish, the boy generally passed
at Sloane Terrace, she would frequently keep him at home a week beyond this time, and, still
further to add to the distraction of such interruptions, collected around him a numerous circle
of young acquaintances, without exercising, as may be supposed, much discrimination in her
choice. "How, indeed, could she?" asks Dr. Glennie--"Mrs. Byron was a total stranger to English
society and English manners; with an exterior far from prepossessing, an understanding where
nature had not been more bountiful, a mind almost wholly without cultivation, and the peculiarities
of northern opinions, northern habits, and northern accent, I trust I do no great prejudice
to the memory of my countrywoman, if I say Mrs. Byron was not a Madame de Lambert, endowed
with powers to retrieve the fortune, and form the character and manners, of a young nobleman,
her son."

The interposition of Lord Carlisle, to whose authority it was found necessary to appeal, had
more than once given a check to these disturbing indulgences. Sanctioned by such support, Dr.
Glennie even ventured to oppose himself to the privilege, so often abused, of the usual visits
on a Saturday; and the scenes which he had to encounter on each new case of refusal were such
as would have wearied out the patience of any less zealous and conscientious schoolmaster.
Mrs. Byron, whose paroxysms of passion were not, like those of her son, "silent rages," would,
on all these occasions, break out into such audible fits of temper as it was impossible to
keep from reaching the ears of the scholars and the servants; and Dr. Glennie had, one day,
the pain of overhearing a school-fellow of his noble pupil say to him, "Byron, your mother
is a fool;" to which the other answered gloomily, "I know it." In consequence of all this violence
and impracticability of temper, Lord Carlisle at length ceased to have any intercourse with
the mother of his ward; and on a further application from the instructor, for the exertion
of his influence, said, "I can have nothing more to do with Mrs. Byron,--you must now manage
her as you can."

Among the books that lay accessible to the boys in Dr. Glennie's study was a pamphlet written
by the brother of one of his most intimate friends, entitled, "Narrative of the Shipwreck of
the Juno on the coast of Arracan, in the year 1795." The writer had been the second officer
of the ship, and the account which he had sent home to his friends of the sufferings of himself
and his fellow-passengers had appeared to them so touching and strange, that they determined
to publish it. The pamphlet attracted but little, it seems, of public attention, but among
the young students of Dulwich Grove it was a favourite study; and the impression which it left
on the retentive mind of Byron may have had some share, perhaps, in suggesting that curious
research through all the various Accounts of Shipwrecks upon record, by which he prepared himself
to depict with such power a scene of the same description in Don Juan. The following affecting
incident, mentioned by the author of this pamphlet, has been adopted, it will be seen, with
but little change either of phrase or circumstance, by the poet:--

"Of those who were not immediately near me I knew little, unless by their cries. Some struggled
hard, and died in great agony; but it was not always those whose strength was most impaired
that died the easiest, though, in some cases, it might have been so. I particularly remember
the following instances. Mr. Wade's servant, a stout and healthy boy, died early and almost
without a groan; while another of the same age, but of a less promising appearance, held out
much longer. The fate of these unfortunate boys differed also in another respect highly deserving
of notice. Their fathers were both in the fore-top when the lads were taken ill. The father
of Mr. Wade's boy hearing of his son's illness, answered with indifference, 'that he could
do nothing for him,' and left him to his fate. The other, when the accounts reached him, hurried
down, and watching for a favourable moment, crawled on all fours along the weather gunwale
to his son, who was in the mizen rigging. By that time, only three or four planks of the quarter
deck remained, just over the weather-quarter gallery; and to this spot the unhappy man led
his son, making him fast to the rail to prevent his being washed away. Whenever the boy was
seized with a fit of retching, the father lifted him up and wiped the foam from his lips; and,
if a shower came, he made him open his mouth to receive the drops, or gently squeezed them
into it from a rag. In this affecting situation both remained four or five days, till the boy
expired. The unfortunate parent, as if unwilling to believe the fact, then raised the body,
gazed wistfully at it, and, when he could no longer entertain any doubt, watched it in silence
till it was carried off by the sea; then, wrapping himself in a piece of canvass, sunk down
and rose no more; though he must have lived two days longer, as we judged from the quivering
of his limbs, when a wave broke over him."[24]

It was probably during one of the vacations of this year, that the boyish love for his young
cousin, Miss Parker, to which he attributes the glory of having first inspired him with poetry,
took possession of his fancy. "My first dash into poetry (he says) was as early as 1800. It
was the ebullition of a passion for my first cousin, Margaret Parker (daughter and grand-daughter
of the two Admirals Parker), one of the most beautiful of evanescent beings. I have long forgotten
the verses, but it would be difficult for me to forget her--her dark eyes--her long eye-lashes--her
completely Greek cast of face and figure! I was then about twelve--she rather older, perhaps
a year. She died about a year or two afterwards, in consequence of a fall, which injured her
spine, and induced consumption. Her sister Augusta (by some thought still more beautiful) died
of the same malady; and it was, indeed, in attending her, that Margaret met with the accident
which occasioned her own death. My sister told me, that when she went to see her, shortly before
her death, upon accidentally mentioning my name, Margaret coloured through the paleness of
mortality to the eyes, to the great astonishment of my sister, who (residing with her grandmother,
Lady Holderness, and seeing but little of me, for family reasons,) knew nothing of our attachment,
nor could conceive why my name should affect her at such a time. I knew nothing of her illness,
being at Harrow and in the country, till she was gone. Some years after, I made an attempt
at an elegy--a very dull one.[25]

"I do not recollect scarcely any thing equal to the transparent beauty of my cousin, or to
the sweetness of her temper, during the short period of our intimacy. She looked as if she
had been made out of a rainbow--all beauty and peace.

"My passion had its usual effects upon me--I could not sleep--I could not eat--I could not
rest: and although I had reason to know that she loved me, it was the texture of my life to
think of the time which must elapse before we could meet again, being usually about twelve
hours of separation! But I was a fool then, and am not much wiser now."

He had been nearly two years under the tuition of Dr. Glennie, when his mother, discontented
at the slowness of his progress--though being, herself, as we have seen, the principal cause
of it--entreated so urgently of Lord Carlisle to have him removed to a public school, that
her wish was at length acceded to; and "accordingly," says Dr. Glennie, "to Harrow he went,
as little prepared as it is natural to suppose from two years of elementary instruction, thwarted
by every art that could estrange the mind of youth from preceptor, from school, and from all
serious study."

This gentleman saw but little of Lord Byron after he left his care; but, from the manner in
which both he and Mrs. Glennie spoke of their early charge, it was evident that his subsequent
career had been watched by them with interest; that they had seen even his errors through the
softening medium of their first feeling towards him, and had never, in his most irregular aberrations,
lost the traces of those fine qualities which they had loved and admired in him when a child.
Of the constancy, too, of this feeling, Dr. Glennie had to stand no ordinary trial, having
visited Geneva in 1817, soon after Lord Byron had left it, when the private character of the
poet was in the very crisis of its unpopularity, and when, among those friends who knew that
Dr. Glennie had once been his tutor, it was made a frequent subject of banter with this gentleman
that he had not more strictly disciplined his pupil, or, to use their own words, "made a better
boy of him."

About the time when young Byron was removed, for his education, to London, his nurse May Gray
left the service of Mrs. Byron, and returned to her native country, where she died about three
years since. She had married respectably, and in one of her last illnesses was attended professionally
by Dr. Ewing of Aberdeen, who, having been always an enthusiastic admirer of Lord Byron, was
no less surprised than delighted to find that the person tinder his care had for so many years
been an attendant on his favourite poet. With avidity, as may be supposed, he noted down from
the lips of his patient all the particulars she could remember of his Lordship's early days;
and it is to the communications with which this gentleman has favoured me, that I am indebted
for many of the anecdotes of that period which I have related.

As a mark of gratitude for her attention to him, Byron had, in parting with May Gray, presented
her with his watch,--the first of which he had ever been possessor. This watch the faithful
nurse preserved fondly through life, and, when she died, it was given by her husband to Dr.
Ewing, by whom, as a relic of genius, it is equally valued. The affectionate boy had also presented
her with a full-length miniature of himself, which was painted by Kay of Edinburgh, in the
year 1795, and which represents him standing with a bow and arrows in his hand, and a profusion
of hair falling over his shoulders. This curious little drawing has likewise passed into the
possession of Dr. Ewing.

The same thoughtful gratitude was evinced by Byron towards the sister of this woman, his first
nurse, to whom he wrote some years after he left Scotland, in the most cordial terms, making
enquiries of her welfare, and informing her, with much joy, that he had at last got his foot
so far restored as to be able to put on a common boot,--"an event for which he had long anxiously
wished, and which he was sure would give her great pleasure."

In the summer of the year 1801 he accompanied his mother to Cheltenham, and the account which
he himself gives of his sensations at that period[26] shows at what an early age those feelings
that lead to poetry had unfolded themselves in his heart. A boy, gazing with emotion on the
hills at sunset, because they remind him of the mountains among which he passed his childhood,
is already, in heart and imagination, a poet. It was during their stay at Cheltenham that a
fortune-teller, whom his mother consulted, pronounced a prediction concerning him which, for
some time, left a strong impression on his mind. Mrs. Byron had, it seems, in her first visit
to this person, (who, if I mistake not, was the celebrated fortune-teller, Mrs. Williams,)
endeavoured to pass herself off as a maiden lady. The sibyl, however, was not so easily deceived;--she
pronounced her wise consulter to be not only a married woman, but the mother of a son who was
lame, and to whom, among other events which she read in the stars, it was predestined that
his life should be in danger from poison before he was of age, and that he should be twice
married,--the second time, to a foreign lady. About two years afterwards he himself mentioned
these particulars to the person from whom I heard the story, and said that the thought of the
first part of the prophecy very often occurred to him. The latter part, however, seems to have
been the nearer guess of the two.

To a shy disposition, such as Byron's was in his youth--and such as, to a certain degree, it
continued all his life--the transition from a quiet establishment, like that of Dulwich Grove,
to the bustle of a great public school was sufficiently trying. Accordingly, we find from his
own account, that, for the first year and a half, he "hated Harrow." The activity, however,
and sociableness of his nature soon conquered this repugnance; and, from being, as he himself
says, "a most unpopular boy," he rose at length to be a leader in all the sports, schemes,
and mischief of the school.

For a general notion of his dispositions and capacities at this period, we could not have recourse
to a more trust-worthy or valuable authority than that of the Rev. Dr. Drury, who was at this
time head master of the school, and to whom Lord Byron has left on record a tribute of affection
and respect, which, like the reverential regard of Dryden for Dr. Busby, will long associate
together honourably the names of the poet and the master. From this venerable scholar I have
received the following brief, but important statement of the impressions which his early intercourse
with the young noble left upon him:--

"Mr. Hanson, Lord Byron's solicitor, consigned him to my care at the age of 13-1/2, with remarks,
that his education had been neglected; that he was ill prepared for a public school, but that
he thought there was a cleverness about him. After his departure I took my young disciple into
my study, and endeavoured to bring him forward by enquiries as to his former amusements, employments,
and associates, but with little or no effect;--and I soon found that a wild mountain colt had
been submitted to my management. But there was mind in his eye. In the first place, it was
necessary to attach him to an elder boy, in order to familiarise him with the objects before
him, and with some parts of the system in which he was to move. But the information he received
from his conductor gave him no pleasure, when he heard of the advances of some in the school,
much younger than himself, and conceived by his own deficiency that he should be degraded,
and humbled, by being placed below them. This I discovered, and having committed him to the
care of one of the masters, as his tutor, I assured him he should not be placed till, by diligence,
he might rank with those of his own age. He was pleased with this assurance, and felt himself
on easier terms with his associates;--for a degree of shyness hung about him for some time.
His manner and temper soon convinced me, that he might be led by a silken string to a point,
rather than by a cable;--on that principle I acted. After some continuance at Harrow, and when
the powers of his mind had begun to expand, the late Lord Carlisle, his relation, desired to
see me in town;--I waited on his Lordship. His object was to inform me of Lord Byron's expectations
of property when he came of age, which he represented as contracted, and to enquire respecting
his abilities. On the former circumstance I made no remark; as to the latter, I replied, 'He
has talents, my Lord, which will add lustre to his rank.' 'Indeed!!!' said his Lordship, with
a degree of surprise, that, according to my reeling, did not express in it all the satisfaction
I expected.

"The circumstance to which you allude, as to his declamatory powers, was as follows.

I shall now lay before the reader such notices of his school-life as I find scattered through
the various note-books he has left behind. Coming, as they do, from his own pen, it is needless
to add, that they afford the liveliest and best records of this period that can be furnished.

"Till I was eighteen years old (odd as it may seem) I had never read a review. But while at
Harrow, my general information was so great on modern topics as to induce a suspicion that
I could only collect so much information from Reviews, because I was never seen reading, but
always idle, and in mischief, or at play. The truth is, that I read eating, read in bed, read
when no one else read, and had read all sorts of reading since I was five years old, and yet
never met with a Review, which is the only reason I know of why I should not have read them.
But it is true; for I remember when Hunter and Curzon, in 1804, told me this opinion at Harrow,
I made them laugh by my ludicrous astonishment in asking them 'What is a Review?' To be sure,
they were then less common. In three years more, I was better acquainted with that same; but
the first I ever read was in 1806-7.

"At school I was (as I have said) remarked for the extent and readiness of my general information;
but in all other respects idle, capable of great sudden exertions, (such as thirty or forty
Greek hexa-meters, of course with such prosody as it pleased God,) but of few continuous drudgeries.
My first Harrow verses, (that is, English, as exercises,) a translation of a chorus from the
Prometheus of Æschylus, were received by him but coolly. No one had the least notion that I
should subside into poesy.

"Peel, the orator and statesman, ('that was, or is, or is to be,') was my form-fellow, and
we were both at the top of our remove (a public-school phrase). We were on good terms, but
his brother was my intimate friend. There were always great hopes of Peel, amongst us all,
masters and scholars--and he has not disappointed them. As a scholar he was greatly my superior;
as a declaimer and actor, I was reckoned at least his equal; as a schoolboy, out of school,
I was always in scrapes, and he never; and in school, he always knew his lesson, and I rarely,--but
when I knew it, I knew it nearly as well. In general information, history, &c. &c., I think
I was his superior, as well as of most boys of my standing.

"The prodigy of our school-days was George Sinclair (son of Sir John); he made exercises for
half the school, (literally) verses at will, and themes without it.... He was a friend of mine,
and in the same remove, and used at times to beg me to let him do my exercise,--a request always
most readily accorded upon a pinch, or when I wanted to do something else, which was usually
once an hour. On the other hand, he was pacific and I savage; so I fought for him, or thrashed
others for him, or thrashed himself to make him thrash others when it was necessary, as a point
of honour and stature, that he should so chastise;--or we talked politics, for he was a great
politician, and were very good friends. I have some of his letters, written to me from school,
still.[28]

"Clayton was another school-monster of learning, and talent, and hope; but what has become
of him I do not know. He was certainly a genius.

"My school-friendships were with me passions,[29] (for I was always violent,) but I do not
know that there is one which has endured (to be sure some have been cut short by death) till
now. That with Lord Clare begun one of the earliest, and lasted longest--being only interrupted
by distance--that I know of. I never hear the word 'Clare' without a beating of the heart even
now, and I write it with the feelings of 1803-4-5, ad infinitum."

The following extract is from another of his manuscript journals:--

"At Harrow I fought my way very fairly.[30] I think I lost but one battle out of seven; and
that was to H----;--and the rascal did not win it, but by the unfair treatment of his own boarding-house,
where we boxed--I had not even a second. I never forgave him, and I should be sorry to meet
him now, as I am sure we should quarrel. My most memorable combats were with Morgan, Rice,
Rainsford, and Lord Jocelyn,--but we were always friendly afterwards. I was a most unpopular
boy, but led latterly, and have retained many of my school friendships, and all my dislikes--except
to Dr. Butler, whom I treated rebelliously, and have been sorry ever since. Dr. Drury, whom
I plagued sufficiently too, was the best, the kindest (and yet strict, too,) friend I ever
had--and I look upon him still as a father.

"P. Hunter, Curzon, Long, and Tatersall, were my principal friends. Clare, Dorset, C^s. Gordon,
De Bath, Claridge, and J^no. Wingfield, were my juniors and favourites, whom I spoilt by indulgence.

One of the most striking results of the English system of education is, that while in no country
are there so many instances of manly friendships early formed and steadily maintained, so in
no other country, perhaps, are the feelings towards the parental home so early estranged, or,
at the best, feebly cherished. Transplanted as boys are from the domestic circle, at a time
of life when the affections are most disposed to cling, it is but natural that they should
seek a substitute for the ties of home[31] in those boyish friendships which they form at school,
and which, connected as they are with the scenes and events over which youth threw its charm,
retain ever after the strongest hold upon their hearts. In Ireland, and I believe also in France,
where the system of education is more domestic, a different result is accordingly observable:--the
paternal home comes in for its due and natural share of affection, and the growth of friendships,
out of this domestic circle, is proportionably diminished.

To a youth like Byron, abounding with the most passionate feelings, and finding sympathy with
only the ruder parts of his nature at home, the little world of school afforded a vent for
his affections, which was sure to call them forth in their most ardent form. Accordingly, the
friendships which he contracted, both at school and college, were little less than what he
himself describes them, "passions." The want he felt at home of those kindred dispositions,
which greeted him among "Ida's social band," is thus strongly described in one of his early
poems[32]:--

    "Is there no cause beyond the common claim,
    Endear'd to all in childhood's very name?
    Ah! sure some stronger impulse vibrates here,
    Which whispers, Friendship will be doubly dear
    To one who thus for kindred hearts must roam,
    And seek abroad the love denied at home:
    Those hearts, dear Ida, have I found in thee,
    A home, a world, a paradise to me."

This early volume, indeed, abounds with the most affectionate tributes to his school-fellows.
Even his expostulations to one of them, who had given him some cause for complaint, are thus
tenderly conveyed:--

    "You knew that my soul, that my heart, my existence,
      If danger demanded, were wholly your own;
    You know me unaltered by years or by distance,
      Devoted to love and to friendship alone.

    "You knew--but away with the vain retrospection,
      The bond of affection no longer endures.
    Too late you may droop o'er the fond recollection,
      And sigh for the friend who was formerly yours."

The following description of what he felt after leaving Harrow, when he encountered in the
world any of his old school-fellows, falls far short of the scene which actually occurred but
a few years before his death in Italy,--when, on meeting with his friend, Lord Clare, after
a long separation, he was affected almost to tears by the recollections which rushed on him.

    "If chance some well remember'd face,
    Some old companion of my early race,
    Advance to claim his friend with honest joy,
    My eyes, my heart proclaim'd me yet a boy;
    The glittering scene, the fluttering groups around,
    Were all forgotten when my friend was found."

It will be seen, by the extracts from his memorandum-book, which I have given, that Mr. Peel
was one of his contemporaries at Harrow; and the following interesting anecdote of an occurrence
in which both were concerned, has been related to me by a friend of the latter gentleman, in
whose words I shall endeavour as nearly as possible to give it.

While Lord Byron and Mr. Peel were at Harrow together, a tyrant, some few years older, whose
name was ----, claimed a right to fag little Peel, which claim (whether rightly or wrongly
I know not) Peel resisted. His resistance, however, was in vain:-- ---- not only subdued him,
but determined also to punish the refractory slave; and proceeded forthwith to put this determination
in practice, by inflicting a kind of bastinado on the inner fleshy side of the boy's arm, which,
during the operation, was twisted round with some degree of technical skill, to render the
pain more acute. While the stripes were succeeding each other, and poor Peel writhing under
them, Byron saw and felt for the misery of his friend; and although he knew that he was not
strong enough to fight ---- with any hope of success, and that it was dangerous even to approach
him, he advanced to the scene of action, and with a blush of rage, tears in his eyes, and a
voice trembling between terror and indignation, asked very humbly if ---- would be pleased
to tell him "how many stripes he meant to inflict?" --"Why," returned the executioner, "you
little rascal, what is that to you?"--"Because, if you please," said Byron, holding out his
arm, "I would take half!"

There is a mixture of simplicity and magnanimity in this little trait which is truly heroic;
and however we may smile at the friendships of boys, it is but rarely that the friendship of
manhood is capable of any thing half so generous.

Among his school favourites a great number, it may be observed, were nobles or of noble family--Lords
Clare and Delaware, the Duke of Dorset and young Wingfield--and that their rank may have had
some share in first attracting his regard to them, might appear from a circumstance mentioned
to me by one of his school-fellows, who, being monitor one day, had put Lord Delaware on his
list for punishment. Byron, hearing of this, came up to him, and said, "Wildman, I find you've
got Delaware on your list--pray don't lick him."--"Why not?"--"Why, I don't know--except that
he is a brother peer. But pray don't." It is almost needless to add, that his interference,
on such grounds, was anything but successful. One of the few merits, indeed, of public schools
is, that they level, in some degree, these artificial distinctions, and that, however the peer
may have his revenge in the world afterwards, the young plebeian is, for once, at least, on
something like an equality with him.

It is true that Lord Byron's high notions of rank were, in his boyish days, so little disguised
or softened down, as to draw upon him, at times, the ridicule of his companions; and it was
at Dulwich, I think, that from his frequent boast of the superiority of an old English barony
over all the later creations of the peerage, he got the nickname, among the boys, of "the Old
English Baron." But it is a mistake to suppose that, either at school or afterwards, he was
at all guided in the selection of his friends by aristocratic sympathies. On the contrary,
like most very proud persons, he chose his intimates in general from a rank beneath his own,
and those boys whom he ranked as friends at school were mostly of this description; while the
chief charm that recommended to him his younger favourites was their inferiority to himself
in age and strength, which enabled him to indulge his generous pride by taking upon himself,
when necessary, the office of their protector.

Among those whom he attached to himself by this latter tie, one of the earliest (though he
has omitted to mention his name) was William Harness, who at the time of his entering Harrow
was ten years of age, while Byron was fourteen. Young Harness, still lame from an accident
of his childhood, and but just recovered from a severe illness, was ill fitted to struggle
with the difficulties of a public school; and Byron, one day, seeing him bullied by a boy much
older and stronger than himself, interfered and took his part. The next day, as the little
fellow was standing alone, Byron came to him and said, "Harness, if any one bullies you, tell
me, and I'll thrash him, if I can." The young champion kept his word, and they were from this
time, notwithstanding the difference of their ages, inseparable friends. A coolness, however,
subsequently arose between them, to which, and to the juvenile friendship it interrupted, Lord
Byron, in a letter addressed to Harness six years afterwards, alludes with so much kindly feeling,
so much delicacy and frankness, that I am tempted to anticipate the date of the letter, and
give an extract from it here.

Of the tenaciousness with which, as we see in this letter, he clung to all the impressions
of his youth, there can be no stronger proof than the very interesting fact, that, while so
little of his own boyish correspondence has been preserved, there were found among his papers
almost all the notes and letters which his principal school favourites, even the youngest,
had ever addressed to him; and, in some cases, where the youthful writers had omitted to date
their scrawls, his faithful memory had, at an interval of years after, supplied the deficiency.
Among these memorials, so fondly treasured by him, there is one which it would be unjust not
to cite, as well on account of the manly spirit that dawns through its own childish language,
as for the sake of the tender and amiable feeling which, it will be seen, the re-perusal of
it, in other days, awakened in Byron:--

"TO THE LORD BYRON, &c. &c.

"Harrow on the Hill, July 28. 1805.

"Since you have been so unusually unkind to me, in calling me names whenever you meet me, of
late, I must beg an explanation, wishing to know whether you choose to be as good friends with
me as ever. I must own that, for this last month, you have entirely cut me,--for, I suppose,
your new cronies. But think not that I will (because you choose to take into your head some
whim or other) be always going up to you, nor do, as I observe certain other fellows doing,
to regain your friendship; nor think that I am your friend either through interest, or because
you are bigger and older than I am. No,--it never was so, nor ever shall be so. I was only
your friend, and am so still,--unless you go on in this way, calling me names whenever you
see me. I am sure you may easily perceive I do not like it; therefore, why should you do it,
unless you wish that I should no longer be your friend? And why should I be so, if you treat
me unkindly? I have no interest in being so. Though you do not let the boys bully me, yet if
you treat me unkindly, that is to me a great deal worse.

"I am no hypocrite, Byron, nor will I, for your pleasure, ever suffer you to call me names,
if you wish me to be your friend. If not, I cannot help it. I am sure no one can say that I
will cringe to regain a friendship that you have rejected. Why should I do so? Am I not your
equal? Therefore, what interest can I have in doing so? When we meet again in the world, (that
is, if you choose it,) you cannot advance or promote me, nor I you. Therefore I beg and entreat
of you, if you value my friendship,--which, by your conduct, I am sure I cannot think you do,--not
to call me the names you do, nor abuse me. Till that time, it will be out of my power to call
you friend. I shall be obliged for an answer as soon as it is convenient; till then

I remain yours,

----

"I cannot say your friend."

Endorsed on this letter, in the handwriting of Lord Byron, is the following:--

"This and another letter were written at Harrow, by my then, and I hope ever, beloved friend,
Lord ----, when we were both school-boys, and sent to my study in consequence of some childish
misunderstanding,--the only one which ever arose between us. It was of short duration, and
I retain this note solely for the purpose of submitting it to his perusal, that we may smile
over the recollection of the insignificance of our first and last quarrel.

"BYRON."

In a letter, dated two years afterwards, from the same boy,[33] there occurs the following
characteristic trait:--"I think, by your last letter, that you are very much piqued with most
of your friends; and, if I am not much mistaken, you are a little piqued with me. In one part
you say, 'There is little or no doubt a few years, or months, will render us as politely indifferent
to each other as if we had never passed a portion of our time together.' Indeed, Byron, you
wrong me, and I have no doubt--at least, I hope--you wrong yourself."

As that propensity to self-delineation, which so strongly pervades his maturer works is, to
the full, as predominant in his early productions, there needs no better record of his mode
of life, as a school-boy, than what these fondly circumstantial effusions supply. Thus the
sports he delighted and excelled in are enumerated:--

    "Yet when confinement's lingering hour was done,
    Our sports, our studies, and our souls were one:
    Together we impell'd the flying ball,

       *       *       *       *       *

    Together join'd in cricket's manly toil,
    Or shared the produce of the river's spoil;
    Or, plunging from the green, declining shore,
    Our pliant limbs the buoyant waters bore;
    In every element, unchanged, the same,
    All, all that brothers should be, but the name."

The danger which he incurred in a fight with some of the neighbouring farmers--an event well
remembered by some of his school-fellows--is thus commemorated.--

    "Still I remember, in the factious strife,
    The rustic's musket aim'd against my life;
    High poised in air the massy weapon hung,
    A cry of horror burst from every tongue:
    Whilst I, in combat with another foe,
    Fought on, unconscious of the impending blow.
    Your arm, brave boy, arrested his career--
    Forward you sprung, insensible to fear;
    Disarm'd and baffled by your conquering hand,
    The grovelling savage roll'd upon the sand."

Some feud, it appears, had arisen on the subject of the cricket-ground, between these "clods"
(as in school-language they are called) and the boys, and one or two skirmishes had previously
taken place. But the engagement here recorded was accidentally brought on by the breaking up
of school and the dismissal of the volunteers from drill, both happening, on that occasion,
at the same hour. This circumstance accounts for the use of the musket, the butt-end of which
was aimed at Byron's head, and would have felled him to the ground, but for the interposition
of his friend Tatersall, a lively, high-spirited boy, whom he addresses here under the name
of Davus.

Notwithstanding these general habits of play and idleness, which might seem to indicate a certain
absence of reflection and feeling, there were moments when the youthful poet would retire thoughtfully
within himself, and give way to moods of musing uncongenial with the usual cheerfulness of
his age. They show a tomb in the churchyard at Harrow, commanding a view over Windsor, which
was so well known to be his favourite resting-place, that the boys called it "Byron's tomb;"[34]
and here, they say, he used to sit for hours, wrapt up in thought,--brooding lonelily over
the first stirrings of passion and genius in his soul, and occasionally, perhaps, indulging
in those bright forethoughts of fame, under the influence of which, when little more than fifteen
years of age, he wrote these remarkable lines:--

    "My epitaph shall be my name alone;
    If that with honour fail to crown my clay,
    Oh may no other fame my deeds repay;
    That, only that, shall single out the spot,
    By that remember'd, or with that forgot."

In the autumn of 1802, he passed a short time with his mother at Bath, and entered, rather
prematurely, into some of the gaieties of the place. At a masquerade given by Lady Riddel,
he appeared in the character of a Turkish boy,--a sort of anticipation, both in beauty and
costume, of his own young Selim, in "The Bride." On his entering into the house, some person
in the crowd attempted to snatch the diamond crescent from his turban, but was prevented by
the prompt interposition of one of the party. The lady who mentioned to me this circumstance,
and who was well acquainted with Mrs. Byron at that period, adds the following remark in the
communication with which she has favoured me:--"At Bath I saw a good deal of Lord Byron,--his
mother frequently sent for me to take tea with her. He was always very pleasant and droll,
and, when conversing about absent friends, showed a slight turn for satire, which after-years,
as is well known, gave a finer edge to."

We come now to an event in his life which, according to his own deliberate persuasion, exercised
a lasting and paramount influence over the whole of his subsequent character and career.

It was in the year 1803 that his heart, already twice, as we have seen, possessed with the
childish notion that it loved, conceived an attachment which--young as he was, even then, for
such a feeling--sunk so deep into his mind as to give a colour to all his future life. That
unsuccessful loves are generally the most lasting, is a truth, however sad, which unluckily
did not require this instance to confirm it. To the same cause, I fear, must be traced the
perfect innocence and romance which distinguish this very early attachment to Miss Chaworth
from the many others that succeeded, without effacing it in his heart;--making it the only
one whose details can be entered into with safety, or whose results, however darkening their
influence on himself, can be dwelt upon with pleasurable interest by others.

On leaving Bath, Mrs. Byron took up her abode, in lodgings, at Nottingham,--Newstead Abbey
being at that time let to Lord Grey de Ruthen,--and during the Harrow vacations of this year,
she was joined there by her son. So attached was he to Newstead, that even to be in its neighbourhood
was a delight to him; and before he became acquainted with Lord Grey, he used sometimes to
sleep, for a night, at the small house near the gate which is still known by the name of "The
Hut."[35] An intimacy, however, soon sprang up between him and his noble tenant, and an apartment
in the abbey was from thenceforth always at his service. To the family of Miss Chaworth, who
resided at Annesley, in the immediate neighbourhood of Newstead, he had been made known, some
time before, in London, and now renewed his acquaintance with them. The young heiress herself
combined with the many worldly advantages that encircled her, much personal beauty, and a disposition
the most amiable and attaching. Though already fully alive to her charms, it was at the period
of which we are speaking that the young poet, who was then in his sixteenth year, while the
object of his admiration was about two years older, seems to have drunk deepest of that fascination
whose effects were to be so lasting;--six short summer weeks which he now passed in her company
being sufficient to lay the foundation of a feeling for all life.

He used, at first, though offered a bed at Annesley, to return every night to Newstead, to
sleep; alleging as a reason that he was afraid of the family pictures of the Chaworths,--that
he fancied "they had taken a grudge to him on account of the duel, and would come down from
their frames at night to haunt him."[36] At length, one evening, he said gravely to Miss Chaworth
and her cousin, "In going home last night I saw a bogle;"--which Scotch term being wholly unintelligible
to the young ladies, he explained that he had seen a ghost, and would not therefore return
to Newstead that evening. From this time he always slept at Annesley during the remainder of
his visit, which was interrupted only by a short excursion to Matlock and Castleton, in which
he had the happiness of accompanying Miss Chaworth and her party, and of which the following
interesting notice appears in one of his memorandum-books:--

"When I was fifteen years of age, it happened that, in a cavern in Derbyshire, I had to cross
in a boat (in which two people only could lie down) a stream which flows under a rock, with
the rock so close upon the water as to admit the boat only to be pushed on by a ferryman (a
sort of Charon) who wades at the stern, stooping all the time. The companion of my transit
was M.A.C., with whom I had been long in love, and never told it, though she had discovered
it without. I recollect my sensations, but cannot describe them, and it is as well.

In the dances of the evening at Matlock, Miss Chaworth, of course, joined, while her lover
sat looking on, solitary and mortified. It is not impossible, indeed, that the dislike which
he always expressed for this amusement may have originated in some bitter pang, felt in his
youth, on seeing "the lady of his love" led out by others to the gay dance from which he was
himself excluded. On the present occasion, the young heiress of Annesley having had for her
partner (as often happens at Matlock) some person with whom she was wholly unacquainted, on
her resuming her seat, Byron said to her pettishly, "I hope you like your friend?" The words
were scarce out of his lips when he was accosted by an ungainly-looking Scotch lady, who rather
boisterously claimed him as "cousin," and was putting his pride to the torture with her vulgarity,
when he heard the voice of his fair companion retorting archly in his ear, "I hope you like
your friend?"

His time at Annesley was mostly passed in riding with Miss Chaworth and her cousin, sitting
in idle reverie, as was his custom, pulling at his handkerchief, or in firing at a door which
opens upon the terrace, and which still, I believe, bears the marks of his shots. But his chief
delight was in sitting to hear Miss Chaworth play; and the pretty Welsh air, "Mary Anne," was
(partly, of course, on account of the name) his especial favourite. During all this time he
had the pain of knowing that the heart of her he loved was occupied by another;--that, as he
himself expresses it,

    "Her sighs were not for him; to her he was
    Even as a brother--but no more."

Neither is it, indeed, probable, had even her affections been disengaged, that Lord Byron would,
at this time, have been selected as the object of them. A seniority of two years gives to a
girl, "on the eve of womanhood," an advance into life with which the boy keeps no proportionate
pace. Miss Chaworth looked upon Byron as a mere school-boy. He was in his manners, too, at
that period, rough and odd, and (as I have heard from more than one quarter) by no means popular
among girls of his own age. If, at any moment, however, he had flattered himself with the hope
of being loved by her, a circumstance mentioned in his "Memoranda," as one of the most painful
of those humiliations to which the defect in his foot had exposed him, must have let the truth
in, with dreadful certainty, upon his heart. He either was told of, or overheard, Miss Chaworth
saying to her maid, "Do you think I could care any thing for that lame boy?" This speech, as
he himself described it, was like a shot through his heart. Though late at night when he heard
it, he instantly darted out of the house, and scarcely knowing whither he ran, never stopped
till he found himself at Newstead.

The picture which he has drawn of his youthful love, in one of the most interesting of his
poems, "The Dream," shows how genius and feeling can elevate the realities of this life, and
give to the commonest events and objects an undying lustre. The old hall at Annesley, under
the name of "the antique oratory," will long call up to fancy the "maiden and the youth" who
once stood in it: while the image of the "lover's steed," though suggested by the unromantic
race-ground of Nottingham, will not the less conduce to the general charm of the scene, and
share a portion of that light which only genius could shed over it.

He appears already, at this boyish age, to have been so far a proficient in gallantry as to
know the use that may be made of the trophies of former triumphs in achieving new ones; for
he used to boast, with much pride, to Miss Chaworth, of a locket which some fair favourite
had given him, and which probably may have been a present from that pretty cousin, of whom
he speaks with such warmth in one of the notices already quoted. He was also, it appears, not
a little aware of his own beauty, which, notwithstanding the tendency to corpulence derived
from his mother, gave promise, at this time, of that peculiar expression into which his features
refined and kindled afterwards.

With the summer holidays ended this dream of his youth. He saw Miss Chaworth once more in the
succeeding year, and took his last farewell of her (as he himself used to relate) on that hill
near Annesley[37] which, in his poem of "The Dream," he describes so happily as "crowned with
a peculiar diadem." No one, he declared, could have told how much he felt--for his countenance
was calm, and his feelings restrained. "The next time I see you," said he in parting with her,
"I suppose you will be Mrs. Chaworth[38],"--and her answer was, "I hope so." It was before
this interview that he wrote, with a pencil, in a volume of Madame de Maintenon's letters,
belonging to her, the following verses, which have never, I believe, before been published:--[39]

    "Oh Memory, torture me no more,
      The present's all o'ercast;
    My hopes of future bliss are o'er,
      In mercy veil the past.
    Why bring those images to view
      I henceforth must resign?
    Ah! why those happy hours renew,
      That never can be mine?
    Past pleasure doubles present pain,
      To sorrow adds regret,
    Regret and hope are both in vain,
      I ask but to--forget."

In the following year, 1805, Miss Chaworth was married to his successful rival, Mr. John Musters;
and a person who was present when the first intelligence of the event was communicated to him,
thus describes the manner in which he received it.--"I was present when he first heard of the
marriage. His mother said, 'Byron, I have some news for you.'--'Well, what is it?'--'Take out
your handkerchief first, for you will want it.'--'Nonsense!'--Take out your handkerchief, I
say.' He did so, to humour her. 'Miss Chaworth is married.' An expression very peculiar, impossible
to describe, passed over his pale face, and he hurried his handkerchief into his pocket, saying,
with an affected air of coldness and nonchalance, 'Is that all?'--'Why, I expected you would
have been plunged in grief!'--He made no reply, and soon began to talk about something else."

His pursuits at Harrow continued to be of the same truant description during the whole of his
stay there;--"always," as he says himself, "cricketing, rebelling,[40] rowing, and in all manner
of mischiefs." The "rebelling," of which he here speaks, (though it never, I believe, proceeded
to any act of violence,) took place on the retirement of Dr. Drury from his situation as head
master, when three candidates for the vacant chair presented themselves,--Mark Drury, Evans,
and Butler. On the first movement to which this contest gave rise in the school, young Wildman
was at the head of the party for Mark Drury, while Byron at first held himself aloof from any.
Anxious, however, to have him as an ally, one of the Drury faction said to Wildman--"Byron,
I know, will not join, because he doesn't choose to act second to any one, but, by giving up
the leadership to him, you may at once secure him." This Wildman accordingly did, and Byron
took the command of the party.

The violence with which he opposed the election of Dr. Butler on this occasion (chiefly from
the warm affection which he had felt towards the last master) continued to embitter his relations
with that gentleman during the remainder of his stay at Harrow. Unhappily their opportunities
of collision were the more frequent from Byron's being a resident in Dr. Butler's house. One
day the young rebel, in a fit of defiance, tore down all the gratings from the window in the
hall; and when called upon by his host to say why he had committed this violence, answered,
with stern coolness, "Because they darkened the hall." On another occasion he explicitly, and
so far manfully, avowed to this gentleman's face the pique he entertained against him. It has
long been customary, at the end of a term, for the master to invite the upper boys to dine
with him; and these invitations are generally considered as, like royal ones, a sort of command.
Lord Byron, however, when asked, sent back a refusal, which rather surprising Dr. Butler, he,
on the first opportunity that occurred, enquired of him, in the presence of the other boys,
his motive for this step:--"Have you any other engagement?"--"No, sir."--"But you must have
some reason, Lord Byron."--"I have."--"What is it?"--"Why, Dr. Butler," replied the young peer,
with proud composure, "if you should happen to come into my neighbourhood when I was staying
at Newstead, I certainly should not ask you to dine with me, and therefore feel that I ought
not to dine with you."[41]

The general character which he bore among the masters at Harrow was that of an idle boy, who
would never learn anything; and, as far as regarded his tasks in school, this reputation was,
by his own avowal, not ill-founded. It is impossible, indeed, to look through the books which
he had then in use, and which are scribbled over with clumsy interlined translations, without
being struck with the narrow extent of his classical attainments. The most ordinary Greek words
have their English signification scrawled under them, showing too plainly that he was not sufficiently
familiarised with their meaning to trust himself without this aid. Thus, in his Xenophon we
find νεοι, young--σωμασιν, bodies--ανθρωποις τοις αγαθοις, good men, &c. &c.--and even in the
volumes of Greek plays which he presented to the library on his departure, we observe, among
other instances, the common word χρυσος provided with its English representative in the margin.

But, notwithstanding his backwardness in the mere verbal scholarship, on which so large and
precious a portion of life is wasted,[42] in all that general and miscellaneous knowledge which
is alone useful in the world, he was making rapid and even wonderful progress. With a mind
too inquisitive and excursive to be imprisoned within statutable limits, he flew to subjects
that interested his already manly tastes, with a zest which it is in vain to expect that the
mere pedantries of school could inspire; and the irregular, but ardent, snatches of study which
he caught in this way, gave to a mind like his an impulse forwards, which left more disciplined
and plodding competitors far behind. The list, indeed, which he has left on record of the works,
in all departments of literature, which he thus hastily and greedily devoured before he was
fifteen years of age, is such as almost to startle belief,--comprising, as it does, a range
and variety of study, which might make much older "helluones librorum" hide their heads.

Not to argue, however, from the powers and movements of a mind like Byron's, which might well
be allowed to take a privileged direction of its own, there is little doubt, that to any youth
of talent and ambition, the plan of instruction pursued in the great schools and universities
of England, wholly inadequate as it is to the intellectual wants of the age,[43] presents an
alternative of evils not a little embarrassing. Difficult, nay, utterly impossible, as he will
find it, to combine a competent acquisition of useful knowledge with that round of antiquated
studies which a pursuit of scholastic honours requires, he must either, by devoting the whole
of his attention and ambition to the latter object, remain ignorant on most of those subjects
upon which mind grapples with mind in life, or by adopting, as Lord Byron and other distinguished
persons have done, the contrary system, consent to pass for a dunce or idler in the schools,
in order to afford himself even a chance of attaining eminence in the world.

From the memorandums scribbled by the young poet in his school-books, we might almost fancy
that, even at so early an age, he had a sort of vague presentiment that everything relating
to him would one day be an object of curiosity and interest. The date of his entrance at Harrow,[44]
the names of the boys who were, at that time, monitors, the list of his fellow pupils under
Doctor Drury,[45]--all are noted down with a fond minuteness, as if to form points of retrospect
in his after-life; and that he sometimes referred to them with this feeling will appear from
one touching instance. On the first leaf of his "Scriptores Græci," we find, in his schoolboy
hand, the following memorial:--"George Gordon Byron, Wednesday, June 26th, A. D. 1805, 3 quarters
of an hour past 3 o'clock in the afternoon, 3d school,--Calvert, monitor; Tom Wildman on my
left hand and Long on my right. Harrow on the Hill." On the same leaf, written five years after,
appears this comment:--

     "Eheu fugaces, Posthume! Posthume!
      Labuntur anni."

"B. January 9th, 1809.--Of the four persons whose names are here mentioned, one is dead, another
in a distant climate, all separated, and not five years have elapsed since they sat together
in school, and none are yet twenty-one years of age."

The vacation of 1804[46] he passed with his mother at Southwell, to which place she had removed
from Nottingham, in the summer of this year, having taken the house on the Green called Burgage
Manor. There is a Southwell play-bill extant, dated August 8th, 1804, in which the play is
announced as bespoke "by Mrs. and Lord Byron." The gentleman, from whom the house where they
resided was rented, possesses a library of some extent, which the young poet, he says, ransacked
with much eagerness on his first coming to Southwell; and one of the books that most particularly
engaged and interested him was, as may be easily believed, the life of Lord Herbert of Cherbury.

In the month of October, 1805, he was removed to Trinity College, Cambridge, and his feelings
on the change from his beloved Ida to this new scene of life are thus described by himself:--

"When I first went up to college, it was a new and a heavy-hearted scene for me: firstly, I
so much disliked leaving Harrow, that though it was time (I being seventeen), it broke my very
rest for the last quarter with counting the days that remained. I always hated Harrow till
the last year and a half, but then I liked it. Secondly, I wished to go to Oxford, and not
to Cambridge. Thirdly, I was so completely alone in this new world, that it half broke my spirits.
My companions were not unsocial, but the contrary--lively, hospitable, of rank and fortune,
and gay far beyond my gaiety. I mingled with, and dined, and supped, &c., with them; but, I
know not how, it was one of the deadliest and heaviest feelings of my life to feel that I was
no longer a boy."

But though, for a time, he may have felt this sort of estrangement at Cambridge, to remain
long without attaching himself was not in his nature; and the friendship which he now formed
with a youth named Eddleston, who was two years younger than himself, even exceeded in warmth
and romance all his schoolboy attachments. This boy, whose musical talents first drew them
together, was, at the commencement of their acquaintance, one of the choir at Cambridge, though
he afterwards, it appears, entered into a mercantile line of life; and this disparity in their
stations was by no means without its charm for Byron, as gratifying at once both his pride
and good-nature, and founding the tie between them on the mutually dependent relations of protection
on the one side, and gratitude and devotion on the other;--the only relations,[47] according
to Lord Bacon, in which the little friendship that still remains in the world is to be found.
It was upon a gift presented to him by Eddleston, that he wrote those verses entitled "The
Cornelian," which were printed in his first, unpublished volume, and of which the following
is a stanza:--

    "Some, who can sneer at friendship's ties,
      Have for my weakness oft reproved me;
    Yet still the simple gift I prize,
      For I am sure the giver loved me." We were rival swimmers--fond of
riding--reading--and of conviviality. We had been at Harrow together;
but--there, at least--his was a less boisterous spirit than mine. I
was always cricketing--rebelling--fighting--rowing (from row, not
boat-rowing, a different practice), and in all manner of mischiefs;
while he was more sedate and polished. At Cambridge--both of
Trinity--my spirit rather softened, or his roughened, for we became
very great friends. The description of Sabrina's seat reminds me of
our rival feats in diving. Though Cam's is not a very translucent
wave, it was fourteen feet deep, where we used to dive for, and pick
up--having thrown them in on purpose--plates, eggs, and even
shillings.

"We only passed the summer together;--Long had gone into the Guards during the year I passed
in Notts, away from college. His friendship, and a violent, though pure, love and passion--which
held me at the same period--were the then romance of the most romantic period of my life.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I remember that, in the spring of 1809, H---- laughed at my being distressed at Long's death,
and amused himself with making epigrams upon his name, which was susceptible of a pun--Long,
short, &c. But three years after, he had ample leisure to repent it, when our mutual friend
and his, H----'s, particular friend, Charles Matthews, was drowned also, and he himself was
as much affected by a similar calamity. But I did not pay him back in puns and epigrams, for
I valued Matthews too much myself to do so; and, even if I had not, I should have respected
his griefs.

"Long's father wrote to me to write his son's epitaph. I promised--but I had not the heart
to complete it. He was such a good amiable being as rarely remains long in this world; with
talent and accomplishments, too, to make him the more regretted. Yet, although a cheerful companion,
he had strange melancholy thoughts sometimes. I remember once that we were going to his uncle's,
I think--I went to accompany him to the door merely, in some Upper or Lower Grosvenor or Brook
Street, I forget which, but it was in a street leading out of some square,--he told me that,
the night before, he 'had taken up a pistol--not knowing or examining whether it was loaded
or no--and had snapped it at his head, leaving it to chance whether it might or might not be
charged.' The letter, too, which he wrote me, on leaving college to join the Guards, was as
melancholy in its tenour as it could well be on such an occasion. But he showed nothing of
this in his deportment, being mild and gentle;--and yet with much turn for the ludicrous in
his disposition. We were both much attached to Harrow, and sometimes made excursions there
together from London to revive our schoolboy recollections."

These affecting remembrances are contained in a Journal which he kept during his residence
at Ravenna, in 1821, and they are rendered still more touching and remarkable by the circumstances
under which they were noted down. Domesticated in a foreign land, and even connected with foreign
conspirators, whose arms, at the moment he was writing, were in his house, he could yet thus
wholly disengage himself from the scene around him, and, borne away by the current of memory
into other times, live over the lost friendships of his boyhood again. An English gentleman
(Mr. Wathen) who called upon him, at one of his residences in Italy, having happened to mention
in conversation that he had been acquainted with Long, from that moment Lord Byron treated
him with the most marked kindness, and talked with him of Long, and of his amiable qualities,
till (as this gentleman says) the tears could not be concealed in his eyes.

In the summer of this year (1806) he, as usual, joined his mother at Southwell,--among the
small, but select, society of which place he had, during his visits, formed some intimacies
and friendships, the memory of which is still cherished there fondly and proudly. With the
exception, indeed, of the brief and bewildering interval which he passed, as we have seen,
in the company of Miss Chaworth, it was at Southwell alone that an opportunity was ever afforded
him of profiting by the bland influence of female society, or of seeing what woman is in the
true sphere of her virtues, home. The amiable and intelligent family of the Pigots received
him within their circle as one of themselves: and in the Rev. John Becher[48] the youthful
poet found not only an acute and judicious critic, but a sincere friend. There were also one
or two other families--as the Leacrofts, the Housons--among whom his talents and vivacity made
him always welcome; and the proud shyness with which, through the whole of his minority, he
kept aloof from all intercourse with the neighbouring gentlemen seems to have been entirely
familiarised away by the small, cheerful society of Southwell.

To this lady was addressed the earliest letter from his pen that has fallen into my hands.
He corresponded with many of his Harrow friends,--with Lord Clare, Lord Powerscourt, Mr. William
Peel, Mr. William Bankes, and others. But it was then little foreseen what general interest
would one day attach to these school-boy letters; and accordingly, as I have already had occasion
to lament, there are but few of them now in existence. The letter, of which I have spoken,
to his Southwell friend, though containing nothing remarkable, is perhaps for that very reason
worth insertion, as serving to show, on comparing it with most of its successors, how rapidly
his mind acquired confidence in its powers. There is, indeed, one charm for the eye of curiosity
in his juvenile manuscripts, which they necessarily want in their printed form; and that is
the strong evidence of an irregular education which they exhibit,--the unformed and childish
handwriting, and, now and then, even defective spelling of him who, in a very few years after,
was to start up one of the giants of English literature.

LETTER 1.

TO MISS ----.

We shall often have occasion to remark the fidelity to early habits and tastes by which Lord
Byron, though in other respects so versatile, was distinguished. In the juvenile letter, just
cited, there are two characteristics of this kind which he preserved unaltered during the remainder
of his life;--namely, his punctuality in immediately answering letters, and his love of the
simplest ballad music. Among the chief favourites to which this latter taste led him at this
time were the songs of the Duenna, which he had the good taste to delight in; and some of his
Harrow contemporaries still remember the joyousness with which, when dining with his friends
at the memorable mother Barnard's, he used to roar out, "This bottle's the sun of our table."

His visit to Southwell this summer was interrupted, about the beginning of August, by one of
those explosions of temper on the part of Mrs. Byron, to which, from his earliest childhood,
he had been but too well accustomed, and in producing which his own rebel spirit was not always,
it may be supposed, entirely blameless. In all his portraits of himself, so dark is the pencil
which he employs, that the following account of his own temper, from one of his journals, must
be taken with a due portion of that allowance for exaggeration, which his style of self-portraiture,
"overshadowing even the shade," requires.

"In all other respects," (he says, after mentioning his infant passion for Mary Duff,) "I differed
not at all from other children, being neither tall nor short, dull nor witty, of my age, but
rather lively--except in my sullen moods, and then I was always a Devil. They once (in one
of my silent rages) wrenched a knife from me, which I had snatched from table at Mrs. B.'s
dinner (I always dined earlier), and applied to my breast;--but this was three or four years
after, just before the late Lord B.'s decease.

"My ostensible temper has certainly improved in later years; but I shudder, and must, to my
latest hour, regret the consequence of it and my passions combined. One event--but no matter--there
are others not much better to think of also--and to them I give the preference....

"But I hate dwelling upon incidents. My temper is now under management--rarely loud, and when
loud, never deadly. It is when silent, and I feel my forehead and my cheek paling, that I cannot
control it; and then.... but unless there is a woman (and not any or every woman) in the way,
I have sunk into tolerable apathy."

Between a temper at all resembling this, and the loud hurricane bursts of Mrs. Byron, the collision,
it may be supposed, was not a little formidable; and the age at which the young poet was now
arrived; when--as most parents feel--the impatience of youth begins to champ the bit, would
but render the occasions for such shocks more frequent. It is told, as a curious proof of their
opinion of each other's violence, that, after parting one evening in a tempest of this kind,
they were known each to go privately that night to the apothecary's, enquiring anxiously whether
the other had been to purchase poison, and cautioning the vender of drugs not to attend to
such an application, if made.

It was but rarely, however, that the young lord allowed himself to be provoked into more than
a passive share in these scenes. To the boisterousness of his mother he would oppose a civil
and, no doubt, provoking silence,--bowing to her but the more profoundly the higher her voice
rose in the scale. In general, however, when he perceived that a storm was at hand, in flight
lay his only safe resource. To this summary expedient he was driven at the period of which
we are speaking; but not till after a scene had taken place between him and Mrs. Byron, in
which the violence of her temper had proceeded to lengths, that, however outrageous they may
be deemed, were not, it appears, unusual with her. The poet, Young, in describing a temper
of this sort, says--

    "The cups and saucers, in a whirlwind sent,
    Just intimate the lady's discontent."

But poker and tongs were, it seems, the missiles which Mrs. Byron preferred, and which she,
more than once, sent resounding after her fugitive son. In the present instance, he was but
just in time to avoid a blow aimed at him with the former of these weapons, and to make a hasty
escape to the house of a friend in the neighbourhood; where, concerting the best means of baffling
pursuit, he decided upon an instant flight to London. The letters, which I am about to give,
were written, immediately on his arrival in town, to some friends at Southwell, from whose
kind interference in his behalf, it may fairly be concluded that the blame of the quarrel,
whatever it may have been, did not rest with him. The first is to Mr. Pigot, a young gentleman
about the same age as himself, who had just returned, for the vacation, from Edinburgh, where
he was, at that time, pursuing his medical studies.

LETTER 2.

TO MR. PIGOT.

From the succeeding letters, it will be seen that Mrs. Byron was not behind hand, in energy
and decision, with his young Lordship, but immediately on discovering his flight, set off after
him.

LETTER 3.

TO MISS ----.

Yours ever."

LETTER 4.

Yours truly."

LETTER 5.

TO MR. PIGOT.

"Piccadilly, August 16. 1806.

LETTER 6.

LETTER 7. Entre nous,--you may expect to see me soon. Adieu.

Yours ever."

From these letters it will be perceived that Lord Byron was already engaged in preparing a
collection of his poems for the press. The idea of printing them first occurred to him in the
parlour of that cottage which, during his visits to Southwell, had become his adopted home.
Miss Pigot, who was not before aware of his turn for versifying, had been reading aloud the
poems of Burns, when young Byron said that "he, too, was a poet sometimes, and would write
down for her some verses of his own which he remembered." He then, with a pencil, wrote those
lines, beginning "In thee I fondly hoped to clasp,"[50] which were printed in his first unpublished
volume, but are not contained in the editions that followed. He also repeated to her the verses
I have already referred to, "When in the hall my father's voice," so remarkable for the anticipations
of his future fame that glimmer through them.

From this moment the desire of appearing in print took entire possession of him;--though, for
the present, his ambition did not extend its views beyond a small volume for private circulation.
The person to whom fell the honour of receiving his first manuscripts was Ridge, the bookseller,
at Newark; and while the work was printing, the young author continued to pour fresh materials
into his hands, with the same eagerness and rapidity that marked the progress of all his maturer
works.

His return to Southwell, which he announced in the last letter we have given was but for a
very short time. In a week or two after he again left that place, and, accompanied by his young
friend Mr. Pigot, set out for Harrowgate. The following extracts are from a letter written
by the latter gentleman, at the time to his sister.

By the gentleman, who was thus early the companion and intimate of Lord Byron, and who is now
pursuing his profession with the success which his eminent talents deserve, I have been favoured
with some further recollections of their visit together to Harrowgate, which I shall take the
liberty of giving in his own words:--

"You ask me to recall some anecdotes of the time we spent together at Harrowgate in the summer
of 1806, on our return from college, he from Cambridge, and I from Edinburgh; but so many years
have elapsed since then, that I really feel myself as if recalling a distant dream.

We have already seen that, at Harrow, his talent for declamation was the only one by which
Lord Byron was particularly distinguished; and in one of his note-books he adverts, with evident
satisfaction, both to his school displays and to the share which he took in these representations
at Southwell:--

"When I was a youth, I was reckoned a good actor. Besides Harrow speeches (in which I shone),
I enacted Penruddock in the Wheel of Fortune, and Tristram Fickle in Allingham's farce of the
Weathercock, for three nights (the duration of our compact), in some private theatricals at
Southwell, in 1806, with great applause. The occasional prologue for our volunteer play was
also of my composition. The other performers were young ladies and gentlemen of the neighbourhood,
and the whole went off with great effect upon our good-natured audience."

It may, perhaps, not be altogether trifling to observe, that, in thus personating with such
success two heroes so different, the young poet displayed both that love and power of versatility
by which he was afterwards impelled, on a grander scale, to present himself under such opposite
aspects to the world;--the gloom of Penruddock, and the whim of Tristram, being types, as it
were, of the two extremes, between which his own character, in after-life, so singularly vibrated.

These representations, which form a memorable era at Southwell, took place about the latter
end of September, in the house of Mr. Leacroft, whose drawing-room was converted into a neat
theatre on the occasion, and whose family contributed some of the fair ornaments of its boards.
The prologue which Lord Byron furnished, and which may be seen in his "Hours of Idleness,"
was written by him between stages, on his way from Harrowgate. On getting into the carriage
at Chesterfield, he said to his companion, "Now, Pigot, I'll spin a prologue for our play;"
and before they reached Mansfield, he had completed his task,--interrupting, only once, his
rhyming reverie, to ask the proper pronunciation of the French word début, and, on being told
it, exclaiming, in the true spirit of Byshe, "Ay, that will do for rhyme to new."

The epilogue on the occasion was from the pen of Mr. Becher; and for the purpose of affording
to Lord Byron, who was to speak it, an opportunity of displaying his powers of mimicry, consisted
of good-humoured portraits of all the persons concerned in the representation. Some intimation
of this design having got among the actors, an alarm was felt instantly at the ridicule thus
in store for them; and to quiet their apprehensions, the author was obliged to assure them
that if, after having heard his epilogue at rehearsal, they did not, of themselves, pronounce
it harmless, and even request that it should be preserved, he would most willingly withdraw
it. In the mean time, it was concerted between this gentleman and Lord Byron that the latter
should, on the morning of rehearsal, deliver the verses in a tone as innocent and as free from
all point as possible,--reserving his mimicry, in which the whole sting of the pleasantry lay,
for the evening of representation. The desired effect was produced;--all the personages of
the green-room were satisfied, and even wondered how a suspicion of waggery could have attached
itself to so well-bred a production. Their wonder, however, was of a different nature a night
or two after, when, on hearing the audience convulsed with laughter at this same composition,
they discovered, at last, the trick which the unsuspected mimic had played on them, and had
no other resource than that of joining in the laugh which his playful imitation of the whole
dramatis personæ excited.

The small volume of poems, which he had now for some time been preparing, was, in the month
of November, ready for delivery to the select few among whom it was intended to circulate;
and to Mr. Becher the first copy of the work was presented.[55] The influence which this gentleman
had, by his love of poetry, his sociability and good sense, acquired at this period over the
mind of Lord Byron, was frequently employed by him in guiding the taste of his young friend,
no less in matters of conduct than of literature; and the ductility with which this influence
was yielded to, in an instance I shall have to mention, will show how far from untractable
was the natural disposition of Byron, had he more frequently been lucky enough to fall into
hands that "knew the stops" of the instrument, and could draw out its sweetness as well as
its strength.

In the wild range which his taste was now allowed to take through the light and miscellaneous
literature of the day, it was but natural that he should settle with most pleasure on those
works from which the feelings of his age and temperament could extract their most congenial
food; and, accordingly, Lord Strangford's Camoëns and Little's Poems are said to have been,
at this period, his favourite study. To the indulgence of such a taste his reverend friend
very laudably opposed himself,--representing with truth, (as far, at least, as the latter author
is concerned,) how much more worthy models, both in style and thought, he might find among
the established names of English literature. Instead of wasting his time on the ephemeral productions
of his contemporaries, he should devote himself, his adviser said, to the pages of Milton and
of Shakspeare, and, above all, seek to elevate his fancy and taste by the contemplation of
the sublimer beauties of the Bible. In the latter study, this gentleman acknowledges that his
advice had been, to a great extent, anticipated, and that with the poetical parts of the Scripture
he found Lord Byron deeply conversant:--a circumstance which corroborates the account given
by his early master, Dr. Glennie, of his great proficiency in scriptural knowledge while yet
but a child under his care.

To Mr. Becher, as I have said, the first copy of his little work was presented; and this gentleman,
in looking over its pages, among many things to commend and admire, as well as some almost
too boyish to criticise, found one poem in which, as it appeared to him, the imagination of
the young bard had indulged itself in a luxuriousness of colouring beyond what even youth could
excuse. Immediately, as the most gentle mode of conveying his opinion, he sat down and addressed
to Lord Byron some expostulatory verses on the subject, to which an answer, also in verse,
was returned by the noble poet as promptly, with, at the same time, a note in plain prose,
to say that he felt fully the justice of his reverend friend's censure, and that, rather than
allow the poem in question to be circulated, he would instantly recall all the copies that
had been sent out, and cancel the whole impression. On the very same evening this prompt sacrifice
was carried into effect;--Mr. Becher saw every copy of the edition burned, with the exception
of that which he retained in his own possession, and another which had been despatched to Edinburgh,
and could not be recalled.

This trait of the young poet speaks sufficiently for itself;--the sensibility, the temper,
the ingenuous pliableness which it exhibits, show a disposition capable, by nature, of every
thing we most respect and love.

Of a no less amiable character were the feelings that, about this time, dictated the following
letter;--a letter which it is impossible to peruse without acknowledging the noble candour
and conscientiousness of the writer:--

LETTER 8.

TO THE EARL OF CLARE.

Considering himself bound to replace the copies of his work which he had withdrawn, as well
as to rescue the general character of the volume from the stigma this one offender might bring
upon it, he set instantly about preparing a second edition for the press, and, during the ensuing
six weeks, continued busily occupied with his task. In the beginning of January we find him
forwarding a copy to his friend, Dr. Pigot, in Edinburgh:--

LETTER 9.

TO MR. WILLIAM BANKES.

TO MR. FALKNER.

Notwithstanding this unambitious declaration of the young author, he had that within which
would not suffer him to rest so easily; and the fame he had now reaped within a limited circle
made him but more eager to try his chance on a wider field. The hundred copies of which this
edition consisted were hardly out of his hands, when with fresh activity he went to press again,--and
his first published volume, "The Hours of Idleness," made its appearance. Some new pieces which
he had written in the interim were added, and no less than twenty of those contained in the
former volume omitted;--for what reason does not very clearly appear, as they are, most of
them, equal, if not superior, to those retained.

In one of the pieces, reprinted in the "Hours of Idleness," there are some alterations and
additions, which, as far as they may be supposed to spring from the known feelings of the poet
respecting birth, are curious. This poem, which is entitled "Epitaph on a Friend," appears,
from the lines I am about to give, to have been, in its original state, intended to commemorate
the death of the same lowly born youth, to whom some affectionate verses, cited in a preceding
page, were addressed:--

    "Though low thy lot, since in a cottage born,
     No titles did thy humble name adorn;
     To me, far dearer was thy artless love
     Than all the joys wealth, fame, and friends could prove."

But, in the altered form of the epitaph, not only this passage, but every other containing
an allusion to the low rank of his young companion, is omitted; while, in the added parts,
the introduction of such language as

    "What, though thy sire lament his failing line,"

seems calculated to give an idea of the youth's station in life, wholly different from that
which the whole tenour of the original epitaph warrants. The other poem, too, which I have
mentioned, addressed evidently to the same boy, and speaking in similar terms, of the "lowness"
of his "lot," is, in the "Hours of Idleness," altogether omitted. That he grew more conscious
of his high station, as he approached to manhood, is not improbable; and this wish to sink
his early friendship with the young cottager may have been a result of that feeling.

As his visits to Southwell were, after this period, but few and transient, I shall take the
present opportunity of mentioning such miscellaneous particulars respecting his habits and
mode of life, while there, as I have been able to collect.

Though so remarkably shy, when he first went to Southwell, this reserve, as he grew more acquainted
with the young people of the place, wore off; till, at length, he became a frequenter of their
assemblies and dinner-parties, and even felt mortified if he heard of a rout to which he was
not invited. His horror, however, at new faces still continued; and if, while at Mrs. Pigot's,
he saw strangers approaching the house, he would instantly jump out of the window to avoid
them. This natural shyness concurred with no small degree of pride to keep him aloof from the
acquaintance of the gentlemen in the neighbourhood, whose visits, in more than one instance,
he left unreturned;--some under the plea that their ladies had not visited his mother; others,
because they had neglected to pay him this compliment sooner. The true reason, however, of
the haughty distance, at which, both now and afterwards, he stood apart from his more opulent
neighbours, is to be found in his mortifying consciousness of the inadequacy of his own means
to his rank, and the proud dread of being made to feel this inferiority by persons to whom,
in every other respect, he knew himself superior. His friend, Mr. Becher, frequently expostulated
with him on this unsociableness; and to his remonstrances, on one occasion, Lord Byron returned
a poetical answer, so remarkably prefiguring the splendid burst, with which his own volcanic
genius opened upon the world, that as the volume containing the verses is in very few hands,
I cannot resist the temptation of giving a few extracts here:--

    "Dear Becher, you tell me to mix with mankind,--
      I cannot deny such a precept is wise;
    But retirement accords with the tone of my mind,
      And I will not descend to a world I despise.

    "Did the Senate or Camp my exertions require,
      Ambition might prompt me at once to go forth;
    And, when infancy's years of probation expire,
      Perchance, I may strive to distinguish my birth.

   "The fire, in the cavern of Ætna concealed,
      Still mantles unseen, in its secret recess;--
    At length, in a volume terrific revealed,
      No torrent can quench it, no bounds can repress.

    "Oh thus, the desire in my bosom for fame
      Bids me live but to hope for Posterity's praise;
    Could I soar, with the Phoenix, on pinions of flame,
      With him I would wish to expire in the blaze.

    "For the life of a Fox, of a Chatham the death,
      What censure, what danger, what woe would I brave?
    Their lives did not end when they yielded their breath,--
      Their glory illumines the gloom of the grave!"

In his hours of rising and retiring to rest he was, like his mother, always very late; and
this habit he never altered during the remainder of his life. The night, too, was at this period,
as it continued afterwards, his favourite time for composition; and his first visit in the
morning was generally paid to the fair friend who acted as his amanuensis, and to whom he then
gave whatever new products of his brain the preceding night might have inspired. His next visit
was usually to his friend Mr. Becher's, and from thence to one or two other houses on the Green,
after which the rest of the day was devoted to his favourite exercises. The evenings he usually
passed with the same family, among whom he began his morning, either in conversation, or in
hearing Miss Pigot play upon the piano-forte, and singing over with her a certain set of songs
which he admired,[59]--among which the "Maid of Lodi," (with the words, "My heart with love
is beating,") and "When Time who steals our years away," were, it seems, his particular favourites.
He appears, indeed, to have, even thus early, shown a decided taste for that sort of regular
routine of life,--bringing round the same occupations at the stated periods,--which formed
so much the system of his existence during the greater part of his residence abroad.

Those exercises, to which he flew for distraction in less happy days, formed his enjoyment
now; and between swimming, sparring, firing at a mark, and riding,[60] the greater part of
his time was passed. In the last of these accomplishments he was by no means very expert. As
an instance of his little knowledge of horses, it is told, that, seeing a pair one day pass
his window, he exclaimed, "What beautiful horses! I should like to buy them."--"Why, they are
your own, my Lord," said his servant. Those who knew him, indeed, at that period, were rather
surprised, in after-life, to hear so much of his riding;--and the truth is, I am inclined to
think, that he was at no time a very adroit horse-man.

In swimming and diving we have already seen, by his own accounts, he excelled; and a lady in
Southwell, among other precious relics of him, possesses a thimble which he borrowed of her
one morning, when on his way to bathe in the Greet, and which, as was testified by her brother,
who accompanied him, he brought up three times successively from the bottom of the river. His
practice of firing at a mark was the occasion, once, of some alarm to a very beautiful young
person, Miss H.,--one of that numerous list of fair ones by whom his imagination was dazzled
while at Southwell. A poem relating to this occurrence, which may be found in his unpublished
volume, is thus introduced:--"As the author was discharging his pistols in a garden, two ladies,
passing near the spot, were alarmed by the sound of a bullet hissing near them, to one of whom
the following stanzas were addressed the next morning."

Such a passion, indeed, had he for arms of every description, that there generally lay a small
sword by the side of his bed, with which he used to amuse himself, as he lay awake in the morning,
by thrusting it through his bed-hangings. The person who purchased this bed at the sale of
Mrs. Byron's furniture, on her removal to Newstead, gave out--with the view of attaching a
stronger interest to the holes in the curtains--that they were pierced by the same sword with
which the old lord had killed Mr. Chaworth, and which his descendant always kept as a memorial
by his bedside. Such is the ready process by which fiction is often engrafted upon fact;--the
sword in question being a most innocent and bloodless weapon, which Lord Byron, during his
visits at Southwell, used to borrow of one of his neighbours.

His fondness for dogs--another fancy which accompanied him through life--may be judged from
the anecdotes already given, in the account of his expedition to Harrowgate. Of his favourite
dog Boatswain, whom he has immortalised in verse, and by whose side it was once his solemn
purpose to be buried, some traits are told, indicative, not only of intelligence, but of a
generosity of spirit, which might well win for him the affections of such a master as Byron.
One of these I shall endeavour to relate as nearly as possible as it was told to me. Mrs. Byron
had a fox-terrier, called Gilpin, with whom her son's dog, Boatswain, was perpetually at war,[61]
taking every opportunity of attacking and worrying him so violently, that it was very much
apprehended he would kill the animal. Mrs. Byron therefore sent off her terrier to a tenant
at Newstead; and on the departure of Lord Byron for Cambridge, his "friend" Boatswain, with
two other dogs, was intrusted to the care of a servant till his return. One morning the servant
was much alarmed by the disappearance of Boatswain, and throughout the whole of the day he
could hear no tidings of him. At last, towards evening, the stray dog arrived, accompanied
by Gilpin, whom he led immediately to the kitchen fire, licking him and lavishing upon him
every possible demonstration of joy. The fact was, he had been all the way to Newstead to fetch
him; and having now established his former foe under the roof once more, agreed so perfectly
well with him ever after, that he even protected him against the insults of other dogs (a task
which the quarrelsomeness of the little terrier rendered no sinecure), and, if he but heard
Gilpin's voice in distress, would fly instantly to his rescue.

In addition to the natural tendency to superstition, which is usually found connected with
the poetical temperament, Lord Byron had also the example and influence of his mother, acting
upon him from infancy, to give his mind this tinge. Her implicit belief in the wonders of second
sight, and the strange tales she told of this mysterious faculty, used to astonish not a little
her sober English friends; and it will be seen, that, at so late a period as the death of his
friend Shelley, the idea of fetches and forewarnings impressed upon him by his mother had not
wholly lost possession of the poet's mind. As an instance of a more playful sort of superstition
I may be allowed to mention a slight circumstance told me of him by one of his Southwell friends.
This lady had a large agate bead with a wire through it, which had been taken out of a barrow,
and lay always in her work-box. Lord Byron asking one day what it was, she told him that it
had been given her as an amulet, and the charm was, that as long as she had this bead in her
possession, she should never be in love. "Then give it to me," he cried, eagerly, "for that's
just the thing I want." The young lady refused;--but it was not long before the bead disappeared.
She taxed him with the theft, and he owned it; but said, she never should see her amulet again.

Of his charity and kind-heartedness he left behind him at Southwell--as, indeed, at every place,
throughout life, where he resided any time--the most cordial recollections. "He never," says
a person, who knew him intimately at this period, "met with objects of distress without affording
them succour." Among many little traits of this nature, which his friends delight to tell,
I select the following,--less as a proof of his generosity, than from the interest which the
simple incident itself, as connected with the name of Byron, presents. While yet a school-boy,
he happened to be in a bookseller's shop at Southwell, when a poor woman came in to purchase
a Bible. The price, she was told by the shopman, was eight shillings. "Ah, dear sir," she exclaimed,
"I cannot pay such a price; I did not think it would cost half the money." The woman was then,
with a look of disappointment, going away,--when young Byron called her back, and made her
a present of the Bible.

In his attention to his person and dress, to the becoming arrangement of his hair, and to whatever
might best show off the beauty with which nature had gifted him, he manifested, even thus early,
his anxiety to make himself pleasing to that sex who were, from first to last, the ruling stars
of his destiny. The fear of becoming, what he was naturally inclined to be, enormously fat,
had induced him, from his first entrance at Cambridge, to adopt, for the purpose of reducing
himself, a system of violent exercise and abstinence, together with the frequent use of warm
baths. But the embittering circumstance of his life,--that, which haunted him like a curse,
amidst the buoyancy of youth, and the anticipations of fame and pleasure, was, strange to say,
the trifling deformity of his foot. By that one slight blemish (as in his moments of melancholy
he persuaded himself) all the blessings that nature had showered upon him were counterbalanced.
His reverend friend, Mr. Becher, finding him one day unusually dejected, endeavoured to cheer
and rouse him, by representing, in their brightest colours, all the various advantages with
which Providence had endowed him,--and, among the greatest, that of "a mind which placed him
above the rest of mankind."--"Ah, my dear friend," said Byron, mournfully,--"if this (laying
his hand on his forehead) places me above the rest of mankind, that (pointing to his foot)
places me far, far below them."

It sometimes, indeed, seemed as if his sensitiveness on this point led him to fancy that he
was the only person in the world afflicted with such an infirmity. When that accomplished scholar
and traveller, Mr. D. Baillie, who was at the same school with him at Aberdeen, met him afterwards
at Cambridge, the young peer had then grown so fat that, though accosted by him familiarly
as his school-fellow, it was not till he mentioned his name that Mr. Baillie could recognise
him. "It is odd enough, too, that you shouldn't know me," said Byron--"I thought nature had
set such a mark upon me, that I could never be forgot."

But, while this defect was such a source of mortification to his spirit, it was also, and in
an equal degree, perhaps, a stimulus:--and more especially in whatever depended upon personal
prowess or attractiveness, he seemed to feel himself piqued by this stigma, which nature, as
he thought, had set upon him, to distinguish himself above those whom she had endowed with
her more "fair proportion." In pursuits of gallantry he was, I have no doubt, a good deal actuated
by this incentive; and the hope of astonishing the world, at some future period, as a chieftain
and hero, mingled little less with his young dreams than the prospect of a poet's glory. "I
will, some day or other," he used to say, when a boy, "raise a troop,--the men of which shall
be dressed in black, and ride on black horses. They shall be called 'Byron's Blacks,' and you
will hear of their performing prodigies of valour."

I have already adverted to the exceeding eagerness with which, while at Harrow, he devoured
all sorts of learning,--excepting only that which, by the regimen of the school, was prescribed
for him. The same rapid and multifarious course of study he pursued during the holidays; and,
in order to deduct as little as possible from his hours of exercise, he had given himself the
habit, while at home, of reading all dinner-time.[62] In a mind so versatile as his, every
novelty, whether serious or light, whether lofty or ludicrous, found a welcome and an echo;
and I can easily conceive the glee--as a friend of his once described it to me--with which
he brought to her, one evening, a copy of Mother Goose's Tales, which he had bought from a
hawker that morning, and read, for the first time, while he dined.

I shall now give, from a memorandum-book begun by him this year, the account, as I find it
hastily and promiscuously scribbled out, of all the books in various departments of knowledge,
which he had already perused at a period of life when few of his school-fellows had yet travelled
beyond their longs and shorts. The list is, unquestionably, a remarkable one;--and when we
recollect that the reader of all these volumes was, at the same time, the possessor of a most
retentive memory, it may be doubted whether, among what are called the regularly educated,
the contenders for scholastic honours and prizes, there could be found a single one who, at
the same age, has possessed any thing like the same stock of useful knowledge.

    "LIST OF HISTORICAL WRITERS WHOSE WORKS I HAVE PERUSED IN
     DIFFERENT LANGUAGES."

     "History of England.--Hume, Rapin, Henry, Smollet, Tindal,
     Belsham, Bisset, Adolphus, Holinshed, Froissart's Chronicles
     (belonging properly to France).

     "Scotland.--Buchanan, Hector Boethius, both in the Latin.

     "Ireland.--Gordon.

     "Rome.--Hooke, Decline and Fall by Gibbon, Ancient History
     by Rollin (including an account of the Carthaginians, &c.),
     besides Livy, Tacitus, Eutropius, Cornelius Nepos, Julius
     Cæsar, Arrian. Sallust.

     "Greece.--Mitford's Greece, Leland's Philip, Plutarch,
     Potter's Antiquities, Xenophon, Thucydides, Herodotus.

     "France.--Mezeray, Voltaire.

     "Spain.--I chiefly derived my knowledge of old Spanish
     History from a book called the Atlas, now obsolete. The
     modern history, from the intrigues of Alberoni down to the
     Prince of Peace, I learned from its connection with European
     politics.

     "Portugal.--From Vertot; as also his account of the Siege
     of Rhodes,--though the last is his own invention, the real
     facts being totally different.--So much for his Knights of
     Malta.

     "Turkey.--I have read Knolles, Sir Paul Rycaut, and Prince
     Cantemir, besides a more modern history, anonymous. Of the
     Ottoman History I know every event, from Tangralopi, and
     afterwards Othman I., to the peace of Passarowitz, in
     1718,--the battle of Cutzka, in 1739, and the treaty between
     Russia and Turkey in 1790.

     "Russia.--Tooke's Life of Catherine II., Voltaire's Czar
     Peter.

     "Sweden.--Voltaire's Charles XII., also Norberg's Charles
     XII.--in my opinion the best of the two.--A translation of
     Schiller's Thirty Years' War, which contains the exploits of
     Gustavus Adolphus, besides Harte's Life of the same Prince.
     I have somewhere, too, read an account of Gustavus Vasa, the
     deliverer of Sweden, but do not remember the author's name.

     "Prussia.--I have seen, at least, twenty Lives of
     Frederick II., the only prince worth recording in Prussian
     annals. Gillies, his own Works, and Thiebault,--none very
     amusing. The last is paltry, but circumstantial.

     "Denmark--I know little of. Of Norway I understand the
     natural history, but not the chronological.

     "Germany.--I have read long histories of the house of
     Suabia, Wenceslaus, and, at length, Rodolph of Hapsburgh and
     his thick-lipped Austrian descendants.

     "Switzerland.--Ah! William Tell, and the battle of
     Morgarten, where Burgundy was slain.

     "Italy.--Davila, Guicciardini, the Guelphs and
     Ghibellines, the battle of Pavia, Massaniello, the
     revolutions of Naples, &c. &c.

     "Hindostan--Orme and Cambridge.

     "America.--Robertson, Andrews' American War.

     "Africa--merely from travels, as Mungo Park, Bruce.

     "BIOGRAPHY.

     "Robertson's Charles V.--Cæsar, Sallust (Catiline and
     Jugurtha), Lives of Marlborough and Eugene, Tekeli, Bonnard,
     Buonaparte, all the British Poets, both by Johnson and
     Anderson, Rousseau's Confessions, Life of Cromwell, British
     Plutarch, British Nepos, Campbell's Lives of the Admirals,
     Charles XII., Czar Peter, Catherine II., Henry Lord Kaimes,
     Marmontel, Teignmouth's Sir William Jones, Life of Newton,
     Belisaire, with thousands not to be detailed.

     "LAW.

     "Blackstone, Montesquieu.

     "PHILOSOPHY.

     "Paley, Locke, Bacon, Hume, Berkeley, Drummond, Beattie, and
     Bolingbroke. Hobbes I detest.

     "GEOGRAPHY.

     "Strabo, Cellarius, Adams, Pinkerton, and Guthrie.

     "POETRY.

     "All the British Classics as before detailed, with most of
     the living poets, Scott, Southey, &c.--Some French, in the
     original, of which the Cid is my favourite.--Little
     Italian.--Greek and Latin without number;--these last I
     shall give up in future.--I have translated a good deal from
     both languages, verse as well as prose.

     "ELOQUENCE.

     "Demosthenes, Cicero, Quintilian, Sheridan, Austin's
     Chironomia, and Parliamentary Debates from the Revolution to
     the year 1742.

     "DIVINITY.

     "Blair, Porteus, Tillotson, Hooker,--all very tiresome. I
     abhor books of religion, though I reverence and love my God,
     without the blasphemous notions of sectaries, or belief in
     their absurd and damnable heresies, mysteries, and
     Thirty-nine Articles.

     "MISCELLANIES.

     "Spectator, Rambler, World, &c. &c.--Novels by the thousand.

     "All the books here enumerated I have taken down from
     memory. I recollect reading them, and can quote passages
     from any mentioned. I have, of course, omitted several in my
     catalogue; but the greater part of the above I perused
     before the age of fifteen. Since I left Harrow, I have
     become idle and conceited, from scribbling rhyme and making
     love to women. B.--Nov. 30. 1807.

"I have also read (to my regret at present) above four thousand novels, including the works
of Cervantes, Fielding, Smollet, Richardson, Mackenzie, Sterne, Rabelais, and Rousseau, &c.
&c. The book, in my opinion, most useful to a man who wishes to acquire the reputation of being
well read, with the least trouble, is "Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy," the most amusing and
instructive medley of quotations and classical anecdotes I ever perused. But a superficial
reader must take care, or his intricacies will bewilder him. If, however, he has patience to
go through his volumes, he will be more improved for literary conversation than by the perusal
of any twenty other works with which I am acquainted,--at least, in the English language."

To this early and extensive study of English writers may be attributed that mastery over the
resources of his own language with which Lord Byron came furnished into the field of literature,
and which enabled him, as fast as his youthful fancies sprung up, to clothe them with a diction
worthy of their strength and beauty. In general, the difficulty of young writers, at their
commencement, lies far less in any lack of thoughts or images, than in that want of a fitting
organ to give those conceptions vent, to which their unacquaintance with the great instrument
of the man of genius, his native language, dooms them. It will be found, indeed, that the three
most remarkable examples of early authorship, which, in their respective lines, the history
of literature affords--Pope, Congreve, and Chatterton--were all of them persons self-educated,[63]
according to their own intellectual wants and tastes, and left, undistracted by the worse than
useless pedantries of the schools, to seek, in the pure "well of English undefiled," those
treasures of which they accordingly so very early and intimately possessed themselves.[64]
To these three instances may now be added, virtually, that of Lord Byron, who, though a disciple
of the schools, was, intellectually speaking, in them, not of them, and who, while his comrades
were prying curiously into the graves of dead languages, betook himself to the fresh, living
sources of his own,[65] and from thence drew those rich, varied stores of diction, which have
placed his works, from the age of two-and-twenty upwards, among the most precious depositories
of the strength and sweetness of the English language that our whole literature supplies.

In the same book that contains the above record of his studies, he has written out, also from
memory, a "List of the different poets, dramatic or otherwise, who have distinguished their
respective languages by their productions." After enumerating the various poets, both ancient
and modern, of Europe, he thus proceeds with his catalogue through other quarters of the world:--

    "Arabia.--Mahomet, whose Koran contains most sublime
     poetical passages, far surpassing European poetry.

     "Persia.--Ferdousi, author of the Shah Nameh, the Persian
     Iliad--Sadi, and Hafiz, the immortal Hafiz, the oriental
     Anacreon. The last is reverenced beyond any bard of ancient
     or modern times by the Persians, who resort to his tomb near
     Shiraz, to celebrate his memory. A splendid copy of his
     works is chained to his monument.

     "America.--An epic poet has already appeared in that
     hemisphere, Barlow, author of the Columbiad,--not to be
     compared with the works of more polished nations.

     "Iceland, Denmark, Norway, were famous for their Skalds.
     Among these Lodburgh was one of the most distinguished. His
     Death Song breathes ferocious sentiments, but a glorious and
     impassioned strain of poetry.

     "Hindostan is undistinguished by any great bard,--at least
     the Sanscrit is so imperfectly known to Europeans, we know
     not what poetical relics may exist.

     "The Birman Empire.--Here the natives are passionately
     fond of poetry, but their bards are unknown.

     "China.--I never heard of any Chinese poet but the Emperor
     Kien Long, and his ode to Tea. What a pity their
     philosopher Confucius did not write poetry, with his
     precepts of morality!

     "Africa.--In Africa some of the native melodies are
     plaintive, and the words simple and affecting; but whether
     their rude strains of nature can be classed with poetry, as
     the songs of the bards, the Skalds of Europe, &c. &c., I
     know not.

     "This brief list of poets I have written down from memory,
     without any book of reference; consequently some errors may
     occur, but I think, if any, very trivial. The works of the
     European, and some of the Asiatic, I have perused, either in
     the original or translations. In my list of English, I have
     merely mentioned the greatest;--to enumerate the minor poets
     would be useless, as well as tedious. Perhaps Gray,
     Goldsmith, and Collins, might have been added, as worthy of
     mention, in a cosmopolite account. But as for the others,
     from Chaucer down to Churchill, they are 'voces et præterea
     nihil;'--sometimes spoken of, rarely read, and never with
     advantage. Chaucer, notwithstanding the praises bestowed on
     him, I think obscene and contemptible:--he owes his
     celebrity merely to his antiquity, which he does not deserve
     so well as Pierce Plowman, or Thomas of Ercildoune. English
     living poets I have avoided mentioning;--we have none who
     will not survive their productions. Taste is over with us;
     and another century will sweep our empire, our literature,
     and our name, from all but a place in the annals of mankind.

     "November 30. 1807.

     BYRON."

Among the papers of his in my possession are several detached poems (in all nearly six hundred
lines), which he wrote about this period, but never printed--having produced most of them after
the publication of his "Hours of Idleness." The greater number of these have little, besides
his name, to recommend them; but there are a few that, from the feelings and circumstances
that gave rise to them, will, I have no doubt, be interesting to the reader. When he first
went to Newstead, on his arrival from Aberdeen, he planted, it seems, a young oak in some part
of the grounds, and had an idea that as it flourished so should he. Some six or seven years
after, on revisiting the spot, he found his oak choked up by weeds, and almost destroyed. In
this circumstance, which happened soon after Lord Grey de Ruthen left Newstead, originated
one of these poems, which consists of five stanzas, but of which the few opening lines will
be a sufficient specimen:--

    "Young Oak, when I planted thee deep in the ground,
      I hoped that thy days would be longer than mine;
    That thy dark-waving branches would flourish around,
      And ivy thy trunk with its mantle entwine.

    "Such, such was my hope, when, in infancy's years,
      On the land of my fathers I rear'd thee with pride;
    They are past, and I water thy stem with my tears,--
      Thy decay, not the weeds that surround thee can hide.

    "I left thee, my Oak, and, since that fatal hour,
      A stranger has dwelt in the hall of my sire," &c. &c.

The subject of the verses that follow is sufficiently explained by the notice which he has
prefixed to them; and, as illustrative of the romantic and almost lovelike feeling which he
threw into his school friendships, they appeared to me, though rather quaint and elaborate,
to be worth preserving.

"Some years ago, when at H----, a friend of the author engraved on a particular spot the names
of both, with a few additional words as a memorial. Afterwards, on receiving some real or imagined
injury, the author destroyed the frail record before he left H----. On revisiting the place
in 1807, he wrote under it the following stanzas:--

    "Here once engaged the stranger's view
      Young Friendship's record simply traced;
    Few were her words,--but yet though few,
      Resentment's hand the line defaced.

    "Deeply she cut--but, not erased,
      The characters were still so plain,
    That Friendship once return'd, and gazed,--
      Till Memory hail'd the words again.

    "Repentance placed them as before;
      Forgiveness join'd her gentle name;
    So fair the inscription seem'd once more
      That Friendship thought it still the same.

    "Thus might the record now have been;
      But, ah, in spite of Hope's endeavour,
    Or Friendship's tears, Pride rush'd between,
      And blotted out the line for ever!"

The same romantic feeling of friendship breathes throughout another of these poems, in which
he has taken for the subject the ingenious thought "L'Amitié est l'Amour sans ailes," and concludes
every stanza with the words, "Friendship is Love without his wings." Of the nine stanzas of
which this poem consists, the three following appear the most worthy of selection:--

    "Why should my anxious breast repine,
      Because my youth is fled?
    Days of delight may still be mine,
      Affection is not dead.
    In tracing back the years of youth,
    One firm record, one lasting truth
      Celestial consolation brings;
    Bear it, ye breezes, to the seat,
    Where first my heart responsive beat,--
      'Friendship is Love without his wings!'

    "Seat of my youth! thy distant spire
      Recalls each scene of joy;
    My bosom glows with former fire,--
      In mind again a boy.
    Thy grove of elms, thy verdant hill,
    Thy every path delights me still,
      Each flower a double fragrance flings;
    Again, as once, in converse gay,
    Each dear associate seems to say,
      'Friendship is Love without his wings!'

    "My Lycus! wherefore dost thou weep?
      Thy falling tears restrain;
    Affection for a time may sleep,
      But, oh, 'twill wake again.
    Think, think, my friend, when next we meet,
    Our long-wish'd intercourse, how sweet!
      From this my hope of rapture springs,
    While youthful hearts thus fondly swell,
    Absence, my friend, can only tell,
      'Friendship is Love without his wings!'"

Whether the verses I am now about to give are, in any degree, founded on fact, I have no accurate
means of determining. Fond as he was of recording every particular of his youth, such an event,
or rather era, as is here commemorated, would have been, of all others, the least likely to
pass unmentioned by him;--and yet neither in conversation nor in any of his writings do I remember
even an allusion to it.[66] On the other hand, so entirely was all that he wrote,--making allowance
for the embellishments of fancy,--the transcript of his actual life and feelings, that it is
not easy to suppose a poem, so full of natural tenderness, to have been indebted for its origin
to imagination alone.

    "TO MY SON!

    "Those flaxen locks, those eyes of blue,
    Bright as thy mother's in their hue;
    Those rosy lips, whose dimples play
    And smile to steal the heart away,
    Recall a scene of former joy,
    And touch thy Father's heart, my Boy!

    "And thou canst lisp a father's name--
    Ah, William, were thine own the same,
    No self-reproach--but, let me cease--
    My care for thee shall purchase peace;
    Thy mother's shade shall smile in joy,
    And pardon all the past, my Boy!

    "Her lowly grave the turf has prest,
    And thou hast known a stranger's breast.
    Derision sneers upon thy birth,
    And yields thee scarce a name on earth;
    Yet shall not these one hope destroy,--
    A Father's heart is thine, my Boy!

    "Why, let the world unfeeling frown,
    Must I fond Nature's claim disown?
    Ah, no--though moralists reprove,
    I hail thee, dearest child of love,
    Fair cherub, pledge of youth and joy--
    A Father guards thy birth, my Boy!

    "Oh, 'twill be sweet in thee to trace,
    Ere age has wrinkled o'er my face,
    Ere half my glass of life is run,
    At once a brother and a son;
    And all my wane of years employ
    In justice done to thee, my Boy!

    "Although so young thy heedless sire,
    Youth will not damp parental fire;
    And, wert thou still less dear to me,
    While Helen's form revives in thee,
    The breast, which beat to former joy,
    Will ne'er desert its pledge, my Boy!

    "B----, 1807."[67]

But the most remarkable of these poems is one of a date prior to any I have given, being written
in December, 1806, when he was not yet nineteen years old. It contains, as will be seen, his
religious creed at that period, and shows how early the struggle between natural piety and
doubt began in his mind.

    "THE PRAYER OF NATURE.

    "Father of Light! great God of Heaven!
      Hear'st thou the accents of despair?
    Can guilt like man's be e'er forgiven?
      Can vice atone for crimes by prayer?
    Father of Light, on thee I call!
      Thou see'st my soul is dark within;
    Thou who canst mark the sparrow's fall,
      Avert from me the death of sin.
    No shrine I seek, to sects unknown,
      Oh point to me the path of truth!
    Thy dread omnipotence I own,
      Spare, yet amend, the faults of youth.
    Let bigots rear a gloomy fane,
      Let superstition hail the pile,
    Let priests, to spread their sable reign,
      With tales of mystic rites beguile.
    Shall man confine his Maker's sway
      To Gothic domes of mouldering stone?
    Thy temple is the face of day;
      Earth, ocean, heaven, thy boundless throne.
    Shall man condemn his race to hell
      Unless they bend in pompous form;
    Tell us that all, for one who fell,
      Must perish in the mingling storm?
    Shall each pretend to reach the skies,
      Yet doom his brother to expire,
    Whose soul a different hope supplies,
      Or doctrines less severe inspire?
    Shall these, by creeds they can't expound,
      Prepare a fancied bliss or woe?
    Shall reptiles, grovelling on the ground,
      Their great Creator's purpose know?
    Shall those who live for self alone,
      Whose years float on in daily crime--
    Shall they by Faith for guilt atone,
      And live beyond the bounds of Time?
    Father! no prophet's laws I seek,--
      Thy laws in Nature's works appear;--
    I own myself corrupt and weak,
      Yet will I pray, for thou wilt hear!
    Thou, who canst guide the wandering star
      Through trackless realms of Æther's space;
    Who calm'st the elemental war,
      Whose hand from pole to pole I trace:
    Thou, who in wisdom placed me here,
      Who, when thou wilt, can take me hence,
    Ah! whilst I tread this earthly sphere,
      Extend to me thy wide defence.
    To Thee, my God, to Thee I call!
      Whatever weal or woe betide,
    By thy command I rise or fall,
      In thy protection I confide.
    If, when this dust to dust restored,
      My soul shall float on airy wing,
    How shall thy glorious name adored,
      Inspire her feeble voice to sing!
    But, if this fleeting spirit share
      With clay the grave's eternal bed,
    While life yet throbs, I raise my prayer,
      Though doom'd no more to quit the dead.
    To Thee I breathe my humble strain,
      Grateful for all thy mercies past,
    And hope, my God, to thee again
      This erring life may fly at last.

    "29th Dec. 1806.

    BYRON."

In another of these poems, which extends to about a hundred lines, and which he wrote under
the melancholy impression that he should soon die, we find him concluding with a prayer in
somewhat the same spirit. After bidding adieu to all the favourite scenes of his youth,[68]
he thus continues,--

    "Forget this world, my restless sprite,
      Turn, turn thy thoughts to Heav'n:
    There must thou soon direct thy night,
      If errors are forgiven.
    To bigots and to sects unknown.
    Bow down beneath the Almighty's throne;--
      To him address thy trembling prayer;
    He, who is merciful and just,
    Will not reject a child of dust,
      Although his meanest care.
    Thou, who canst guide the wandering star,
    Who calm'st the elemental war,
      Whose mantle is yon boundless sky,
    My thoughts, my words, my crimes forgive;
    And, since I soon must cease to live,
      Instruct me how to die.

     1807."

We have seen, by a former letter, that the law proceedings for the recovery of his Rochdale
property had been attended with success in some trial of the case at Lancaster. The following
note to one of his Southwell friends, announcing a second triumph of the cause, shows how sanguinely
and, as it turned out, erroneously, he calculated on the results.

"Feb. 9. 1807.

Dear ----,

"I have the pleasure to inform you we have gained the Rochdale cause a second time, by which
I am, £60,000 plus. Yours ever,

"BYRON." Bravo!--what say you?"

His movements and occupations for the remainder of this year will be best collected from a
series of his own letters, which I am enabled, by the kindness of the lady to whom they were
addressed, to give. Though these letters are boyishly[70] written, and a good deal of their
pleasantry is of that conventional kind which depends more upon phrase than thought, they will
yet, I think, be found curious and interesting, not only as enabling us to track him through
this period of his life, but as throwing light upon various little traits of character, and
laying open to us the first working of his hopes and fears while waiting, in suspense, the
opinions that were to decide, as he thought, his future fame. The first of the series, which
is without date, appears to have been written before he had left Southwell. The other letters,
it will be seen, are dated from Cambridge and from London.

LETTER 12.

TO MISS ----.

LETTER 13.

TO MISS ----.

"Cambridge, June 30. 1807.

LETTER 14.

TO MISS ----.

Yours, &c."

LETTER 15.

TO MISS ----.

LETTER 16.

TO MISS ----.

LETTER 17.

TO MISS ----.

"London, August 11, 1807.

LETTER 18.

TO MISS ----.

It was at the beginning of the following year that an acquaintance commenced between Lord Byron
and a gentleman, related to his family by marriage, Mr. Dallas,--the author of some novels,
popular, I believe, in their day, and also of a sort of Memoir of the noble Poet, published
soon after his death, which, from being founded chiefly on original correspondence, is the
most authentic and trust-worthy of any that have yet appeared. In the letters addressed by
Lord Byron to this gentleman, among many details, curious in a literary point of view, we find,
what is much more important for our present purpose, some particulars illustrative of the opinions
which he had formed, at this time of his life, on the two subjects most connected with the
early formation of character--morals and religion.

It is but rarely that infidelity or scepticism finds an entrance into youthful minds. That
readiness to take the future upon trust, which is the charm of this period of life, would naturally,
indeed, make it the season of belief as well as of hope. There are also then, still fresh in
the mind, the impressions of early religious culture, which, even in those who begin soonest
to question their faith, give way but slowly to the encroachments of doubt, and, in the mean
time, extend the benefit of their moral restraint over a portion of life when it is acknowledged
such restraints are most necessary. If exemption from the checks of religion be, as infidels
themselves allow,[81] a state of freedom from responsibility dangerous at all times, it must
be peculiarly so in that season of temptation, youth, when the passions are sufficiently disposed
to usurp a latitude for themselves, without taking a licence also from infidelity to enlarge
their range. It is, therefore, fortunate that, for the causes just stated, the inroads of scepticism
and disbelief should be seldom felt in the mind till a period of life when the character, already
formed, is out of the reach of their disturbing influence,--when, being the result, however
erroneous, of thought and reasoning, they are likely to partake of the sobriety of the process
by which they were acquired, and, being considered but as matters of pure speculation, to have
as little share in determining the mind towards evil as, too often, the most orthodox creed
has, at the same age, in influencing it towards good.

While, in this manner, the moral qualities of the unbeliever himself are guarded from some
of the mischiefs that might, at an earlier age, attend such doctrines, the danger also of his
communicating the infection to others is, for reasons of a similar nature, considerably diminished.
The same vanity or daring which may have prompted the youthful sceptic's opinions, will lead
him likewise, it is probable, rashly and irreverently to avow them, without regard either to
the effect of his example on those around him, or to the odium which, by such an avowal, he
entails irreparably on himself. But, at a riper age, these consequences are, in general, more
cautiously weighed. The infidel, if at all considerate of the happiness of others, will naturally
pause before he chases from their hearts a hope of which his own feels the want so desolately.
If regardful only of himself, he will no less naturally shrink from the promulgation of opinions
which, in no age, have men uttered with impunity. In either case there is a tolerably good
security for his silence;--for, should benevolence not restrain him from making converts of
others, prudence may, at least, prevent him from making a martyr of himself.

Unfortunately, Lord Byron was an exception to the usual course of such lapses. With him, the
canker showed itself "in the morn and dew of youth," when the effect of such "blastments" is,
for every reason, most fatal,--and, in addition to the real misfortune of being an unbeliever
at any age, he exhibited the rare and melancholy spectacle of an unbelieving schoolboy. The
same prematurity of developement which brought his passions and genius so early into action,
enabled him also to anticipate this worst, dreariest result of reason; and at the very time
of life when a spirit and temperament like his most required control, those checks, which religious
pre-possessions best supply, were almost wholly wanting.

We have seen, in those two Addresses to the Deity which I have selected from among his unpublished
poems, and still more strongly in a passage of the Catalogue of his studies, at what a boyish
age the authority of all systems and sects was avowedly shaken off by his enquiring spirit.
Yet, even in these, there is a fervour of adoration mingled with his defiance of creeds, through
which the piety implanted in his nature (as it is deeply in all poetic natures) unequivocally
shows itself; and had he then fallen within the reach of such guidance and example as would
have seconded and fostered these natural dispositions, the licence of opinion into which he
afterwards broke loose might have been averted. His scepticism, if not wholly removed, might
have been softened down into that humble doubt, which, so far from being inconsistent with
a religious spirit, is, perhaps, its best guard against presumption and uncharitableness; and,
at all events, even if his own views of religion had not been brightened or elevated, he would
have learned not wantonly to cloud or disturb those of others. But there was no such monitor
near him. After his departure from Southwell, he had not a single friend or relative to whom
he could look up with respect; but was thrown alone on the world, with his passions and his
pride, to revel in the fatal discovery which he imagined himself to have made of the nothingness
of the future, and the all-paramount claims of the present. By singular ill fortune, too, the
individual who, among all his college friends, had taken the strongest hold on his admiration
and affection, and whose loss he afterwards lamented with brotherly tenderness, was, to the
same extent as himself, if not more strongly, a sceptic. Of this remarkable young man, Matthews,
who was so early snatched away, and whose career in after-life, had it been at all answerable
to the extraordinary promise of his youth, must have placed him upon a level with the first
men of his day, a Memoir was, at one time, intended to be published by his relatives; and to
Lord Byron, among others of his college friends, application, for assistance in the task, was
addressed. The letter which this circumstance drew forth from the noble poet, besides containing
many amusing traits of his friend, affords such an insight into his own habits of life at this
period, that, though infringing upon the chronological order of his correspondence, I shall
insert it here.

LETTER 19.

TO MR. MURRAY.

"Ravenna, 9bre 12. 1820.

"Yours, &c."

As already, before his acquaintance with Mr. Matthews commenced, Lord Byron had begun to bewilder
himself in the mazes of scepticism, it would be unjust to impute to this gentleman any further
share in the formation of his noble friend's opinions than what arose from the natural influence
of example and sympathy;--an influence which, as it was felt perhaps equally on both sides,
rendered the contagion of their doctrines, in a great measure, reciprocal. In addition, too,
to this community of sentiment on such subjects, they were both, in no ordinary degree, possessed
by that dangerous spirit of ridicule, whose impulses even the pious cannot always restrain,
and which draws the mind on, by a sort of irresistible fascination, to disport itself most
wantonly on the brink of all that is most solemn and awful. It is not wonderful, therefore,
that, in such society, the opinions of the noble poet should have been, at least, accelerated
in that direction to which their bias already leaned; and though he cannot be said to have
become thus confirmed in these doctrines,--as neither now, nor at any time of his life, was
he a confirmed unbeliever,--he had undoubtedly learned to feel less uneasy under his scepticism,
and even to mingle somewhat of boast and of levity with his expression of it. At the very first
onset of his correspondence with Mr. Dallas, we find him proclaiming his sentiments on all
such subjects with a flippancy and confidence far different from the tone in which he had first
ventured on his doubts,--from that fervid sadness, as of a heart loth to part with its illusions,
which breathes through every line of those prayers, that, but a year before, his pen had traced.

Here again, however, we should recollect, there must be a considerable share of allowance for
his usual tendency to make the most and the worst of his own obliquities. There occurs, indeed,
in his first letter to Mr. Dallas, an instance of this strange ambition,--the very reverse,
it must be allowed, of hypocrisy,--which led him to court, rather than avoid, the reputation
of profligacy, and to put, at all times, the worst face on his own character and conduct. His
son," adds Mr. Dallas, "to whom he had transmitted genius, but not virtue, sparkled for a moment
and went out like a star,--and with him the title became extinct." To this Lord Byron answers
in the following letter:--

LETTER 20.

TO MR. DALLAS.

There is here, evidently, a degree of pride in being thought to resemble the wicked Lord Lyttleton;
and, lest his known irregularities should not bear him out in the pretension, he refers mysteriously,
as was his habit, to certain untold events of his life, to warrant the parallel.[84] Mr. Dallas,
who seems to have been but little prepared for such a reception of his compliments, escapes
out of the difficulty by transferring to the young lord's "candour" the praise he had so thanklessly
bestowed on his morals in general; adding, that from the design Lord Byron had expressed in
his preface of resigning the service of the Muses for a different vocation, he had "conceived
him bent on pursuits which lead to the character of a legislator and statesman;--had imagined
him at one of the universities, training himself to habits of reasoning and eloquence, and
storing up a large fund of history and law." It is in reply to this letter that the exposition
of the noble poet's opinions, to which I have above alluded, is contained.

LETTER 21.

I remain," &c.

Though such was, doubtless, the general cast of his opinions at this time, it must be recollected,
before we attach any particular importance to the details of his creed, that, in addition to
the temptation, never easily resisted by him, of displaying his wit at the expense of his character,
he was here addressing a person who, though, no doubt, well meaning, was evidently one of those
officious, self-satisfied advisers, whom it was the delight of Lord Byron at all times to astonish
and mystify. The tricks which, when a boy, he played upon the Nottingham quack, Lavender, were
but the first of a long series with which, through life, he amused himself, at the expense
of all the numerous quacks whom his celebrity and sociability drew around him.

The terms in which he speaks of the university in this letter agree in spirit with many passages
both in the "Hours of Idleness," and his early Satire, and prove that, while Harrow was remembered
by him with more affection, perhaps, than respect, Cambridge had not been able to inspire him
with either. This feeling of distaste to his "nursing mother" he entertained in common with
some of the most illustrious names of English literature. So great was Milton's hatred to Cambridge,
that he had even conceived, says Warton, a dislike to the face of the country,--to the fields
in its neighbourhood. The poet Gray thus speaks of the same university:--"Surely, it was of
this place, now Cambridge, but formerly known by the name of Babylon, that the prophet spoke
when he said, 'The wild beasts of the deserts shall dwell there, and their houses shall be
full of doleful creatures, and owls shall build there, and satyrs shall dance there,'" &c.
&c. The bitter recollections which Gibbon retained of Oxford, his own pen has recorded; and
the cool contempt by which Locke avenged himself on the bigotry of the same seat of learning
is even still more memorable.[87]

In poets, such distasteful recollections of their collegiate life may well be thought to have
their origin in that antipathy to the trammels of discipline, which is not unusually observable
among the characteristics of genius, and which might be regarded, indeed, as a sort of instinct,
implanted in it for its own preservation, if there be any truth in the opinion that a course
of learned education is hurtful to the freshness and elasticity of the imaginative faculty.
A right reverend writer,[88] but little to be suspected of any desire to depreciate academical
studies, not only puts the question, "Whether the usual forms of learning be not rather injurious
to the true poet, than really assisting to him?" but appears strongly disposed to answer it
in the affirmative,--giving, as an instance, in favour of this conclusion, the classic Addison,
who, "as appears," he says, "from some original efforts in the sublime, allegorical way, had
no want of natural talents for the greater poetry,--which yet were so restrained and disabled
by his constant and superstitious study of the old classics, that he was, in fact, but a very
ordinary poet."

It was, no doubt, under some such impression of the malign influence of a collegiate atmosphere
upon genius, that Milton, in speaking of Cambridge, gave vent to the exclamation, that it was
"a place quite incompatible with the votaries of Phœbus," and that Lord Byron, versifying a
thought of his own, in the letter to Mr. Dallas just given, declares,

    "Her Helicon is duller than her Cam."

The poet Dryden, too, who, like Milton, had incurred some mark of disgrace at Cambridge, seems
to have entertained but little more veneration for his Alma Mater; and the verses in which
he has praised Oxford at the expense of his own university[89] were, it is probable, dictated
much less by admiration of the one than by a desire to spite and depreciate the other.

Nor is it genius only that thus rebels against the discipline of the schools. Even the tamer
quality of Taste, which it is the professed object of classical studies to cultivate, is sometimes
found to turn restive under the pedantic manège to which it is subjected. It was not till released
from the duty of reading Virgil as a task, that Gray could feel himself capable of enjoying
the beauties of that poet; and Lord Byron was, to the last, unable to vanquish a similar prepossession,
with which the same sort of school association had inoculated him, against Horace.

                  --"Though Time hath taught
      My mind to meditate what then it learn'd,
      Yet such the fix'd inveteracy wrought
      By the impatience of my early thought,
      That, with the freshness wearing out before
      My mind could relish what it might have sought,
      If free to choose, I cannot now restore
    Its health; but what it then detested, still abhor.

    "Then farewell, Horace; whom I hated so,
    Not for thy faults, but mine; it is a curse
    To understand, not feel thy lyric flow,
    To comprehend, but never love thy verse."

    CHILDE HAROLD, CANTO IV

To the list of eminent poets, who have thus left on record their dislike and disapproval of
the English system of education, are to be added, the distinguished names of Cowley, Addison,
and Cowper; while, among the cases which, like those of Milton and Dryden, practically demonstrate
the sort of inverse ratio that may exist between college honours and genius, must not be forgotten
those of Swift, Goldsmith, and Churchill, to every one of whom some mark of incompetency was
affixed by the respective universities, whose annals they adorn. When, in addition, too, to
this rather ample catalogue of poets, whom the universities have sent forth either disloyal
or dishonoured, we come to number over such names as those of Shakspeare and of Pope, followed
by Gay, Thomson, Burns, Chatterton, &c., all of whom have attained their respective stations
of eminence, without instruction or sanction from any college whatever, it forms altogether,
it must be owned, a large portion of the poetical world, that must be subducted from the sphere
of that nursing influence which the universities are supposed to exercise over the genius of
the country.

The following letters, written at this time, contain some particulars which will not be found
uninteresting.

LETTER 22.

TO MR. HENRY DRURY.

LETTER 23.

TO MR. HARNESS.

"Dorant's Hotel, Albemarle Street, Feb. 11.

I have already mentioned the early friendship that subsisted between this gentleman and Lord
Byron, as well as the coolness that succeeded it. The following extract from a letter with
which Mr. Harness favoured me, in placing at my disposal those of his noble correspondent,
will explain the circumstances that led, at this time, to their reconcilement; and the candid
tribute, in the concluding sentences, to Lord Byron, will be found not less honourable to the
reverend writer himself than to his friend.

In the spring of this year (1808) appeared the memorable critique upon the "Hours of Idleness"
in the Edinburgh Review. That he had some notice of what was to be expected from that quarter,
appears by the following letter to his friend, Mr. Becher.

LETTER 24.

TO MR. BECHER.

"Dorant's Hotel, Feb. 26. 1803.

Believe me, most truly," &c.

Soon after this letter appeared the dreaded article,--an article which, if not "witty in itself,"
deserved eminently the credit of causing "wit in others." Seldom, indeed, has it fallen to
the lot of the justest criticism to attain celebrity such as injustice has procured for this;
nor as long as the short, but glorious race of Byron's genius is remembered, can the critic,
whoever he may be, that so unintentionally ministered to its first start, be forgotten.

It is but justice, however, to remark,--without at the same time intending any excuse for the
contemptuous tone of criticism assumed by the reviewer,--that the early verses of Lord Byron,
however distinguished by tenderness and grace, give but little promise of those dazzling miracles
of poesy with which he afterwards astonished and enchanted the world; and that, if his youthful
verses now have a peculiar charm in our eyes, it is because we read them, as it were, by the
light of his subsequent glory.

There is, indeed, one point of view, in which these productions are deeply and intrinsically
interesting. As faithful reflections of his character at that period of life, they enable us
to judge of what he was in his yet unadulterated state,--before disappointment had begun to
embitter his ardent spirit, or the stirring up of the energies of his nature had brought into
activity also its defects. Tracing him thus through these natural effusions of his young genius,
we find him pictured exactly such, in all the features of his character, as every anecdote
of his boyish days proves him really to have been, proud, daring, and passionate,--resentful
of slight or injustice, but still more so in the cause of others than in his own; and yet,
with all this vehemence, docile and placable, at the least touch of a hand authorised by love
to guide him. The affectionateness, indeed, of his disposition, traceable as it is through
every page of this volume, is yet but faintly done justice to, even by himself;--his whole
youth being, from earliest childhood, a series of the most passionate attachments,--of those
overflowings of the soul, both in friendship and love, which are still more rarely responded
to than felt, and which, when checked or sent back upon the heart, are sure to turn into bitterness.
We have seen also, in some of his early unpublished poems, how apparent, even through the doubts
that already clouded them, are those feelings of piety which a soul like his could not but
possess, and which, when afterwards diverted out of their legitimate channel, found a vent
in the poetical worship of nature, and in that shadowy substitute for religion which superstition
offers. When, in addition, too, to these traits of early character, we find scattered through
his youthful poems such anticipations of the glory that awaited him,--such, alternately, proud
and saddened glimpses into the future, as if he already felt the elements of something great
within him, but doubted whether his destiny would allow him to bring it forth,--it is not wonderful
that, with the whole of his career present to our imaginations, we should see a lustre round
these first puerile attempts not really their own, but shed back upon them from the bright
eminence which he afterwards attained; and that, in our indignation against the fastidious
blindness of the critic, we should forget that he had not then the aid of this reflected charm,
with which the subsequent achievements of the poet now irradiate all that bears his name.

The effect this criticism produced upon him can only be conceived by those who, besides having
an adequate notion of what most poets would feel under such an attack, can understand all that
there was in the temper and disposition of Lord Byron to make him feel it with tenfold more
acuteness than others. We have seen with what feverish anxiety he awaited the verdicts of all
the minor Reviews, and, from his sensibility to the praise of the meanest of these censors,
may guess how painfully he must have writhed under the sneers of the highest. A friend, who
found him in the first moments of excitement after reading the article, enquired anxiously
whether he had just received a challenge?--not knowing how else to account for the fierce defiance
of his looks. It would, indeed, be difficult for sculptor or painter to imagine a subject of
more fearful beauty than the fine countenance of the young poet must have exhibited in the
collected energy of that crisis. His pride had been wounded to the quick, and his ambition
humbled;--but this feeling of humiliation lasted but for a moment. The very re-action of his
spirit against aggression roused him to a full consciousness of his own powers;[90] and the
pain and the shame of the injury were forgotten in the proud certainty of revenge. His chief
care, indeed, afterwards, was amiably devoted,--as we have seen it was, in like manner, before
the criticism,--to allaying, as far as he could, the sensitiveness of his mother; who, not
having the same motive or power to summon up a spirit of resistance, was, of course, more helplessly
alive to this attack upon his fame, and felt it far more than, after the first burst of indignation,
he did himself. But the state of his mind upon the subject will be best understood from the
following letter.

LETTER 25.

TO MR. BECKER.

"Yours most truly," &c.

The sort of life which he led at this period between the dissipations of London and of Cambridge,
without a home to welcome, or even the roof of a single relative to receive him, was but little
calculated to render him satisfied either with himself or the world. Unrestricted as he was
by deference to any will but his own,[91] even the pleasures to which he was naturally most
inclined prematurely palled upon him, for want of those best zests of all enjoyment, rarity
and restraint. I have already quoted, from one of his note-books, a passage descriptive of
his feelings on first going to Cambridge, in which he says that "one of the deadliest and heaviest
feelings of his life was to feel that he was no longer a boy."--"From that moment (he adds)
I began to grow old in my own esteem, and in my esteem age is not estimable. I took my gradations
in the vices with great promptitude, but they were not to my taste; for my early passions,
though violent in the extreme, were concentrated, and hated division or spreading abroad. I
could have left or lost the whole world with, or for, that which I loved; but, though my temperament
was naturally burning, I could not share in the common-place libertinism of the place and time
without disgust. And yet this very disgust, and my heart thrown back upon itself, threw me
into excesses perhaps more fatal than those from which I shrunk, as fixing upon one (at a time)
the passions which spread amongst many would have hurt only myself."

Though, from the causes here alleged, the irregularities he, at this period, gave way to were
of a nature far less gross and miscellaneous than those, perhaps, of any of his associates,
yet, partly from the vehemence which this concentration caused, and, still more, from that
strange pride in his own errors, which led him always to bring them forth in the most conspicuous
light, it so happened that one single indiscretion, in his hands, was made to go farther, if
I may so express it, than a thousand in those of others. An instance of this, that occurred
about the time of which we are speaking, was, I am inclined to think, the sole foundation of
the mysterious allusions just cited. An amour (if it may be dignified with such a name) of
that sort of casual description which less attachable natures would have forgotten, and more
prudent ones at least concealed, was by him converted, at this period, and with circumstances
of most unnecessary display, into a connection of some continuance,--the object of it not only
becoming domesticated with him in lodgings at Brompton, but accompanied him afterwards, disguised
in boy's clothes, to Brighton. He introduced this young person, who used to ride about with
him in her male attire, as his younger brother; and the late Lady P----, who was at Brighton
at the time, and had some suspicion of the real nature of the relationship, said one day to
the poet's companion, "What a pretty horse that is you are riding!"--"Yes," answered the pretended
cavalier, "it was gave me by my brother!"

Beattie tells us, of his ideal poet,--

    "The exploits of strength, dexterity, or speed,
     To him nor vanity nor joy could bring."

But far different were the tastes of the real poet, Byron; and among the least romantic, perhaps,
of the exercises in which he took delight was that of boxing or sparring. This taste it was
that, at a very early period, brought him acquainted with the distinguished professor of that
art, Mr. Jackson, for whom he continued through life to entertain the sincerest regard, one
of his latest works containing a most cordial tribute not only to the professional, but social
qualities of this sole prop and ornament of pugilism.[92] During his stay at Brighton this
year, Jackson was one of his most constant visiters,--the expense of the professor's chaise
thither and back being always defrayed by his noble patron. He also honoured with his notice,
at this time, D'Egville, the ballet-master, and Grimaldi; to the latter of whom he sent, as
I understand, on one of his benefit nights, a present of five guineas.

Having been favoured by Mr. Jackson with copies of the few notes and letters, which he has
preserved out of the many addressed to him by Lord Byron, I shall here lay before the reader
one or two, which bear the date of the present year, and which, though referring to matters
of no interest in themselves, give, perhaps, a better notion of the actual life and habits
of the young poet, at this time, than could be afforded by the most elaborate and, in other
respects, important correspondence. They will show, at least, how very little akin to romance
were the early pursuits and associates of the author of Childe Harold, and, combined with what
we know of the still less romantic youth of Shakspeare, prove how unhurt the vital principle
of genius can preserve itself even in atmospheres apparently the most ungenial and noxious to it.

LETTER 26.

TO MR. JACKSON.

TO MR. JACKSON.

"N.A., Notts. December 12. 1808.

"Believe me," &c.

The dress alluded to here was, no doubt, wanted for a private play, which he, at this time,
got up at Newstead, and of which there are some further particulars in the annexed letter to
Mr. Becher.

LETTER 29.

"Believe me," &c.

It was in the autumn of this year, as the letters I have just given indicate, that he, for
the first time, took up his residence at Newstead Abbey. Having received the place in a most
ruinous condition from the hands of its late occupant, Lord Grey de Ruthyn, he proceeded immediately
to repair and fit up some of the apartments, so as to render them--more with a view to his
mother's accommodation than his own--comfortably habitable. In one of his letters to Mrs. Byron,
published by Mr. Dallas, he thus explains his views and intentions on this subject.

LETTER 30.

TO THE HONOURABLE[93] MRS. BYRON. The H----s sleep at Mansfield. I do not know, that I resemble
Jean Jacques Rousseau.

The idea, entertained by Mrs. Byron, of a resemblance between her son and Rousseau was founded
chiefly, we may suppose, on those habits of solitariness, in which he had even already shown
a disposition to follow that self-contemplative philosopher, and which, manifesting themselves
thus early, gained strength as he advanced in life.

In another letter to his mother, dated some weeks after the preceding one, he explains further
his plans both with respect to Newstead and his projected travels.

LETTER 31.

TO MRS. BYRON.

"Yours," &c.

In the November of this year he lost his favourite dog, Boatswain,--the poor animal having
been seized with a fit of madness, at the commencement of which so little aware was Lord Byron
of the nature of the malady, that he more than once, with his bare hand, wiped away the slaver
from the dog's lips during the paroxysms. In a letter to his friend, Mr. Hodgson,[96] he thus
announces this event:--"Boatswain is dead!--he expired in a state of madness on the 18th, after
suffering much, yet retaining all the gentleness of his nature to the last, never attempting
to do the least injury to any one near him. I have now lost every thing except old Murray."

The monument raised by him to this dog,--the most memorable tribute of the kind, since the
Dog's Grave, of old, at Salamis,--is still a conspicuous ornament of the gardens of Newstead.
The misanthropic verses engraved upon it may be found among his poems, and the following is
the inscription by which they are introduced:--

                  "Near this spot
           Are deposited the Remains of one
          Who possessed Beauty without Vanity,
              Strength without Insolence,
               Courage without Ferocity,
     And all the Virtues of Man without his Vices.
    This Praise, which would be unmeaning Flattery
             If inscribed over human ashes,
         Is but a just tribute to the Memory of
                   BOATSWAIN, a Dog,
         Who was born at Newfoundland, May, 1803,
      And died at Newstead Abbey, November 18. 1808."

The poet, Pope, when about the same age as the writer of this inscription, passed a similar
eulogy on his dog,[97] at the expense of human nature; adding, that "Histories are more full
of examples of the fidelity of dogs than of friends." In a still sadder and bitterer spirit,
Lord Byron writes of his favourite,

     "To mark a friend's remains these stones arise; I never knew
      but one, and here he lies."[98]

Melancholy, indeed, seems to have been gaining fast upon his mind at this period. In another
letter to Mr. Hodgson, he says,--"You know laughing is the sign of a rational animal--so says
Dr. Smollet. I think so too, but unluckily my spirits don't always keep pace with my opinions."

Old Murray, the servant whom he mentions, in a preceding extract, as the only faithful follower
now remaining to him, had long been in the service of the former lord, and was regarded by
the young poet with a fondness of affection which it has seldom been the lot of age and dependence
to inspire. "I have more than once," says a gentleman who was at this time a constant visiter
at Newstead, "seen Lord Byron at the dinner-table fill out a tumbler of Madeira, and hand it
over his shoulder to Joe Murray, who stood behind his chair, saying, with a cordiality that
brightened his whole countenance, 'Here, my old fellow.'"

The unconcern with which he could sometimes allude to the defect in his foot is manifest from
another passage in one of these letters to Mr. Hodgson. That gentleman having said jestingly
that some of the verses in the "Hours of Idleness" were calculated to make schoolboys rebellious,
Lord Byron answers--"If my songs have produced the glorious effects you mention, I shall be
a complete Tyrtæus;--though I am sorry to say I resemble that interesting harper more in his
person than in his poesy." Sometimes, too, even an allusion to this infirmity by others, when
he could perceive that it was not offensively intended, was borne by him with the most perfect
good humour. "I was once present," says the friend I have just mentioned, "in a large and mixed
company, when a vulgar person asked him aloud--'Pray, my Lord, how is that foot of yours?'--'Thank
you, sir,' answered Lord Byron, with the utmost mildness--'much the same as usual.'" When I
say the fact, I mean of the letter being written by ----, not having any doubt as to the authenticity
of the statement. The letter is now before me, and I keep it for your perusal."

His time at Newstead during this autumn was principally occupied in enlarging and preparing
his Satire for the press; and with the view, perhaps, of mellowing his own judgment of its
merits, by keeping it some time before his eyes in a printed form,[99] he had proofs taken
off from the manuscript by his former publisher at Newark. It is somewhat remarkable, that,
excited as he was by the attack of the reviewers, and possessing, at all times, such rapid
powers of composition, he should have allowed so long an interval to elapse between the aggression
and the revenge. But the importance of his next move in literature seems to have been fully
appreciated by him. He saw that his chances of future eminence now depended upon the effort
he was about to make, and therefore deliberately collected all his energies for the spring.
Among the preparatives by which he disciplined his talent to the task was a deep study of the
writings of Pope; and I have no doubt that from this period may be dated the enthusiastic admiration
which he ever after cherished for this great poet,--an admiration which at last extinguished
in him, after one or two trials, all hope of pre-eminence in the same track, and drove him
thenceforth to seek renown in fields more open to competition.

The misanthropic mood of mind into which he had fallen at this time, from disappointed affections
and thwarted hopes, made the office of satirist but too congenial and welcome to his spirit.
Yet it is evident that this bitterness existed far more in his fancy than his heart; and that
the sort of relief he now found in making war upon the world arose much less from the indiscriminate
wounds he dealt around, than from the new sense of power he became conscious of in dealing
them, and by which he more than recovered his former station in his own esteem. In truth, the
versatility and ease with which, as shall presently be shown, he could, on the briefest consideration,
shift from praise to censure, and, sometimes, almost as rapidly, from censure to praise, shows
how fanciful and transient were the impressions under which he, in many instances, pronounced
his judgments; and though it may in some degree deduct from the weight of his eulogy, absolves
him also from any great depth of malice in his Satire.

His coming of age, in 1809, was celebrated at Newstead by such festivities as his narrow means
and society could furnish. Besides the ritual roasting of an ox, there was a ball, it seems,
given on the occasion,--of which the only particular I could collect, from the old domestic
who mentioned it, was, that Mr. Hanson, the agent of her lord, was among the dancers. Of Lord
Byron's own method of commemorating the day, I find the following curious record in a letter
written from Genoa in 1822:--"Did I ever tell you that the day I came of age I dined on eggs
and bacon and a bottle of ale?--For once in a way they are my favourite dish and drinkable;
but as neither of them agree with me, I never use them but on great jubilees,--in four or five
years or so." The pecuniary supplies necessary towards his outset, at this epoch, were procured
from money-lenders at an enormously usurious interest, the payment of which for a long time
continued to be a burden to him.

It was not till the beginning of this year that he took his Satire,--in a state ready, as he
thought, for publication,--to London. Before, however, he had put the work to press, new food
was unluckily furnished to his spleen by the neglect with which he conceived himself to have
been treated by his guardian, Lord Carlisle. The relations between this nobleman and his ward
had, at no time, been of such a nature as to afford opportunities for the cultivation of much
friendliness on either side; and to the temper and influence of Mrs. Byron must mainly be attributed
the blame of widening, if not of producing, this estrangement between them. The coldness with
which Lord Carlisle had received the dedication of the young poet's first volume was, as we
have seen from one of the letters of the latter, felt by him most deeply. He, however, allowed
himself to be so far governed by prudential considerations as not only to stifle this displeasure,
but even to introduce into his Satire, as originally intended for the press, the following
compliment to his guardian:--

    "On one alone Apollo deigns to smile,
     And crowns a new Roscommon in Carlisle."

The crown, however, thus generously awarded, did not long remain where it had been placed.
In the interval between the inditing of this couplet and the delivery of the manuscript to
the press, Lord Byron, under the impression that it was customary for a young peer, on first
taking his seat, to have some friend to introduce him, wrote to remind Lord Carlisle that he
should be of age at the commencement of the session. Instead, however, of the sort of answer
which he expected, a mere formal, and, as it appeared to him, cold reply, acquainting him with
the technical mode of proceeding on such occasions, was all that, in return to this application,
he received. Disposed as he had been, by preceding circumstances, to suspect his noble guardian
of no very friendly inclinations towards him, this backwardness in proposing to introduce him
to the House (a ceremony, however, as it appears, by no means necessary or even usual) was
sufficient to rouse in his sensitive mind a strong feeling of resentment. The indignation,
thus excited, found a vent, but too temptingly, at hand;--the laudatory couplet I have just
cited was instantly expunged, and his Satire went forth charged with those vituperative verses
against Lord Carlisle, of which, gratifying as they must have been to his revenge at the moment,
he, not long after, with the placability so inherent in his generous nature, repented.[100]

During the progress of his poem through the press, he increased its length by more than a hundred
lines; and made several alterations, one or two of which may be mentioned, as illustrative
of that prompt susceptibility of new impressions and influences which rendered both his judgment
and feelings so variable. In the Satire, as it originally stood, was the following couplet:--

    "Though printers condescend the press to soil
     With odes by Smythe, and epic songs by Hoyle."

Of the injustice of these lines (unjust, it is but fair to say, to both the writers mentioned,)
he, on the brink of publication, repented; and,--as far, at least, as regarded one of the intended
victims,--adopted a tone directly opposite in his printed Satire, where the name of Professor
Smythe is mentioned honourably, as it deserved, in conjunction with that of Mr. Hodgson, one
of the poet's most valued friends:--

    "Oh dark asylum of a Vandal race!
     At once the boast of learning and disgrace;
     So sunk in dulness, and so lost in shame,
     That Smythe and Hodgson scarce redeem thy fame."

In another instance we find him "changing his hand" with equal facility and suddenness. The
original manuscript of the Satire contained this line,--

    "I leave topography to coxcomb Gell;"

but having, while the work was printing, become acquainted with Sir William Gell, he, without
difficulty, by the change of a single epithet, converted satire into eulogy, and the line now
descends to posterity thus:--

    "I leave topography to classic Gell."[101]

Among the passages added to the poem during its progress through the press were those lines
denouncing the licentiousness of the Opera. "Then let Ausonia," &c. which the young satirist
wrote one night, after returning, brimful of morality, from the Opera, and sent them early
next morning to Mr. Dallas for insertion. The just and animated tribute to Mr. Crabbe was also
among the after-thoughts with which his poem was adorned; nor can we doubt that both this,
and the equally merited eulogy on Mr. Rogers, were the disinterested and deliberate result
of the young poet's judgment, as he had never at that period seen either of these distinguished
persons, and the opinion he then expressed of their genius remained unchanged through life.
With the author of the Pleasures of Memory he afterwards became intimate, but with him, whom
he had so well designated as "Nature's sternest painter, yet the best," he was never lucky
enough to form any acquaintance;--though, as my venerated friend and neighbour, Mr. Crabbe
himself, tells me, they were once, without being aware of it, in the same inn together for
a day or two, and must have frequently met, as they went in and out of the house, during the time.

Almost every second day, while the Satire was printing, Mr. Dallas, who had undertaken to superintend
it through the press, received fresh matter, for the enrichment of its pages, from the author,
whose mind, once excited on any subject, knew no end to the outpourings of its wealth. In one
of his short notes to Mr. Dallas, he says, "Print soon, or I shall overflow with rhyme;" and
it was, in the same manner, in all his subsequent publications,--as long, at least, as he remained
within reach of the printer,--that he continued thus to feed the press, to the very last moment,
with new and "thick-coming fancies," which the re-perusal of what he had already written suggested
to him. It would almost seem, indeed, from the extreme facility and rapidity with which he
produced some of his brightest passages during the progress of his works through the press,
that there was in the very act of printing an excitement to his fancy, and that the rush of
his thoughts towards this outlet gave increased life and freshness to their flow.

Among the passing events from which he now caught illustrations for his poem was the melancholy
death of Lord Falkland,--a gallant, but dissipated naval officer, with whom the habits of his
town life had brought him acquainted, and who, about the beginning of March, was killed in
a duel by Mr. Powell. That this event affected Lord Byron very deeply, the few touching sentences
devoted to it in his Satire prove. "On Sunday night (he says) I beheld Lord Falkland presiding
at his own table in all the honest pride of hospitality; on Wednesday morning at three o'clock
I saw stretched before me all that remained of courage, feeling, and a host of passions." But
it was not by words only that he gave proof of sympathy on this occasion. The family of the
unfortunate nobleman were left behind in circumstances which needed something more than the
mere expression of compassion to alleviate them; and Lord Byron, notwithstanding the pressure
of his own difficulties at the time, found means, seasonably and delicately, to assist the
widow and children of his friend. In the following letter to Mrs. Byron, he mentions this among
other matters of interest,--and in a tone of unostentatious sensibility highly honourable to him.

LETTER 32.

TO MRS. BYRON.

The affidavits which he here mentions, as expected from Cornwall, were those required in proof
of the marriage of Admiral Byron with Miss Trevanion, the solemnisation of which having taken
place, as it appears, in a private chapel at Carhais, no regular certificate of the ceremony
could be produced. The delay in procuring other evidence, coupled with the refusal of Lord
Carlisle to afford any explanations respecting his family, interposed those difficulties which
he alludes to in the way of his taking his seat. At length, all the necessary proofs having
been obtained, he, on the 13th of March, presented himself in the House of Lords, in a state
more lone and unfriended, perhaps, than any youth of his high station had ever before been
reduced to on such an occasion,--not having a single individual of his own class either to
take him by the hand as friend or acknowledge him as acquaintance. To chance alone was he even
indebted for being accompanied as far as the bar of the House by a very distant relative, who
had been, little more than a year before, an utter stranger to him. This relative was Mr. Dallas;
and the account which he has given of the whole scene is too striking in all its details to
be related in any other words than his own:--

"The Satire was published about the middle of March, previous to which he took his seat in
the House of Lords, on the 13th of the same month. On that day, passing down St. James's Street,
but with no intention of calling, I saw his chariot at his door, and went in. His countenance,
paler than usual, showed that his mind was agitated, and that he was thinking of the nobleman
to whom he had once looked for a hand and countenance in his introduction to the House. He
said to me--'I am glad you happened to come in; I am going to take my seat, perhaps you will
go with me.' I expressed my readiness to attend him; while, at the same time, I concealed the
shock I felt on thinking that this young man, who, by birth, fortune, and talent, stood high
in life, should have lived so unconnected and neglected by persons of his own rank, that there
was not a single member of the senate to which he belonged, to whom he could or would apply
to introduce him in a manner becoming his birth. I saw that he felt the situation, and I fully
partook his indignation.

"After some talk about the Satire, the last sheets of which were in the press, I accompanied
Lord Byron to the House. He was received in one of the ante-chambers by some of the officers
in attendance, with whom he settled respecting the fees he had to pay. One of them went to
apprise the Lord Chancellor of his being there, and soon returned for him. There were very
few persons in the House. Lord Eldon was going through some ordinary business. When Lord Byron
entered, I thought he looked still paler than before; and he certainly wore a countenance in
which mortification was mingled with, but subdued by, indignation. He passed the woolsack without
looking round, and advanced to the table where the proper officer was attending to administer
the oaths. When he had gone through them, the Chancellor quitted his seat, and went towards
him with a smile, putting out his hand warmly to welcome him; and, though I did not catch his
words, I saw that he paid him some compliment. This was all thrown away upon Lord Byron, who
made a stiff bow, and put the tips of his fingers into the Chancellor's hand. The Chancellor
did not press a welcome so received, but resumed his seat; while Lord Byron carelessly seated
himself for a few minutes on one of the empty benches to the left of the throne, usually occupied
by the lords in opposition. When, on his joining me, I expressed what I had felt, he said--'If
I had shaken hands heartily, he would have set me down for one of his party--but I will have
nothing to do with any of them, on either side; I have taken my seat, and now I will go abroad.'
We returned to St. James's Street, but he did not recover his spirits."

To this account of a ceremonial so trying to the proud spirit engaged in it, and so little
likely to abate the bitter feeling of misanthropy now growing upon him, I am enabled to add,
from his own report in one of his note-books, the particulars of the short conversation which
he held with the Lord Chancellor on the occasion:--

"When I came of age, some delays, on account of some birth and marriage certificates from Cornwall,
occasioned me not to take my seat for several weeks. When these were over, and I had taken
the oaths, the Chancellor apologised to me for the delay, observing 'that these forms were
a part of his duty.' I begged him to make no apology, and added (as he certainly had shown
no violent hurry), 'Your Lordship was exactly like Tom Thumb' (which was then being acted)--'you
did your duty, and you did no more.'"

In a few days after, the Satire made its appearance; and one of the first copies was sent,
with the following letter, to his friend Mr. Harness.

LETTER 33.

In this romantic design of collecting together the portraits of his school friends, we see
the natural working of an ardent and disappointed heart, which, as the future began to darken
upon it, clung with fondness to the recollections of the past; and, in despair of finding new
and true friends, saw no happiness but in preserving all it could of the old. But even here,
his sensibility had to encounter one of those freezing checks, to which feelings, so much above
the ordinary temperature of the world, are but too constantly exposed;--it being from one of
the very friends thus fondly valued by him, that he experienced, on leaving England, that mark
of neglect of which he so indignantly complains in a note on the second Canto of Childe Harold,--contrasting
with this conduct the fidelity and devotedness he had just found in his Turkish servant, Dervish.
Mr. Dallas, who witnessed the immediate effect of this slight upon him, thus describes his
emotion:--

"I found him bursting with indignation. 'Will you believe it?' said he, 'I have just met ----,
and asked him to come and sit an hour with me: he excused himself; and what do you think was
his excuse? He was engaged with his mother and some ladies to go shopping! And he knows I set
out to-morrow, to be absent for years, perhaps never to return!--Friendship! I do not believe
I shall leave behind me, yourself and family excepted, and perhaps my mother, a single being
who will care what becomes of me.'"

From his expressions in a letter to Mrs. Byron, already cited, that he must "do something in
the House soon," as well as from a more definite intimation of the same intention to Mr. Harness,
it would appear that he had, at this time, serious thoughts of at once entering on the high
political path which his station as an hereditary legislator opened to him. But, whatever may
have been the first movements of his ambition in this direction, they were soon relinquished.
Had he been connected with any distinguished political families, his love of eminence, seconded
by such example and sympathy, would have impelled him, no doubt, to seek renown in the fields
of party warfare where it might have been his fate to afford a signal instance of that transmuting
process by which, as Pope says, the corruption of a poet sometimes leads to the generation
of a statesman. Luckily, however, for the world (though whether luckily for himself may be
questioned), the brighter empire of poesy was destined to claim him all its own. The loneliness,
indeed, of his position in society at this period, left destitute, as he was, of all those
sanctions and sympathies, by which youth at its first start is usually surrounded, was, of
itself, enough to discourage him from embarking in a pursuit, where it is chiefly on such extrinsic
advantages that any chance of success must depend. So far from taking an active part in the
proceedings of his noble brethren, he appears to have regarded even the ceremony of his attendance
among them as irksome and mortifying; and in a few days after his admission to his seat, he
withdrew himself in disgust to the seclusion of his own Abbey, there to brood over the bitterness
of premature experience, or meditate, in the scenes and adventures of other lands, a freer
outlet for his impatient spirit than it could command at home.

It was not long, however, before he was summoned back to town by the success of his Satire,--the
quick sale of which already rendered the preparation of a new edition necessary. His zealous
agent, Mr. Dallas, had taken care to transmit to him, in his retirement, all the favourable
opinions of the work he could collect; and it is not unamusing, as showing the sort of steps
by which Fame at first mounts, to find the approbation of such authorities as Pratt and the
magazine writers put forward among the first rewards and encouragements of a Byron.

"You are already (he says) pretty generally known to be the author. So Cawthorn tells me, and
a proof occurred to myself at Hatchard's, the Queen's bookseller. On enquiring for the Satire,
he told me that he had sold a great many, and had none left, and was going to send for more,
which I afterwards found he did. I asked who was the author? He said it was believed to be
Lord Byron's. Did he believe it? Yes he did. On asking the ground of his belief, he told me
that a lady of distinction had, without hesitation, asked for it as Lord Byron's Satire. He
likewise informed me that he had enquired of Mr. Gifford, who frequents his shop, if it was
yours. Mr. Gifford denied any knowledge of the author, but spoke very highly of it, and said
a copy had been sent to him. Hatchard assured me that all who came to his reading-room admired
it. Cawthorn tells me it is universally well spoken of, not only among his own customers, but
generally at all the booksellers. I heard it highly praised at my own publisher's, where I
have lately called several times. At Phillips's it was read aloud by Pratt to a circle of literary
guests, who were unanimous in their applause:--The Anti-jacobin, as well as the Gentleman's
Magazine, has already blown the trump of fame for you. We shall see it in the other Reviews
next month, and probably in some severely handled, according to the connection of the proprietors
and editors with those whom it lashes."

On his arrival in London, towards the end of April, he found the first edition of his poem
nearly exhausted; and set immediately about preparing another, to which he determined to prefix
his name. The additions he now made to the work were considerable,--near a hundred new lines
being introduced at the very opening[103],--and it was not till about the middle of the ensuing
month that the new edition was ready to go to press. He had, during his absence from town,
fixed definitely with his friend, Mr. Hobhouse, that they should leave England together on
the following June, and it was his wish to see the last proofs of the volume corrected before
his departure.

Among the new features of this edition was a Post-script to the Satire, in prose, which Mr.
Dallas, much to the credit of his discretion and taste, most earnestly entreated the poet to
suppress. It is to be regretted that the adviser did not succeed in his efforts, as there runs
a tone of bravado through this ill-judged effusion, which it is, at all times, painful to see
a brave man assume. For instance:--"It may be said," he observes, "that I quit England because
I have censured these 'persons of honour and wit about town;' but I am coming back again, and
their vengeance will keep hot till my return. Those who know me can testify that my motives
for leaving England are very different from fears, literary or personal; those who do not may
be one day convinced. Since the publication of this thing, my name has not been concealed;
I have been mostly in London, ready to answer for my transgressions, and in daily expectation
of sundry cartels; but, alas, 'the age of chivalry is over,' or, in the vulgar tongue, there
is no spirit now-a-days."

But, whatever may have been the faults or indiscretions of this Satire, there are few who would
now sit in judgment upon it so severely as did the author himself, on reading it over nine
years after, when he had quitted England, never to return. The copy which he then perused is
now in possession of Mr. Murray, and the remarks which he has scribbled over its pages are
well worth transcribing. On the first leaf we find--

"The binding of this volume is considerably too valuable for its contents.

"Nothing but the consideration of its being the property of another prevents me from consigning
this miserable record of misplaced anger and indiscriminate acrimony to the flames.

B."

Opposite the passage,

                           "to be misled
    By Jeffrey's heart, or Lamb's Bœotian head,"

is written, "This was not just. Neither the heart nor the head of these gentlemen are at all
what they are here represented." Along the whole of the severe verses against Mr. Wordsworth
he has scrawled "Unjust,"--and the same verdict is affixed to those against Mr. Coleridge.
On his unmeasured attack upon Mr. Bowles, the comment is,--"Too savage all this on Bowles;"
and down the margin of the page containing the lines, "Health to immortal Jeffrey," &c. he
writes,--"Too ferocious--this is mere insanity;"--adding, on the verses that follow ("Can none
remember that eventful day?" &c.), "All this is bad, because personal."

Sometimes, however, he shows a disposition to stand by his original decisions. Thus, on the
passage relating to a writer of certain obscure Epics (v. 793.), he says,--"All right;" adding,
of the same person, "I saw some letters of this fellow to an unfortunate poetess, whose productions
(which the poor woman by no means thought vainly of) he attacked so roughly and bitterly, that
I could hardly regret assailing him;--even were it unjust, which it is not; for, verily, he
is an ass." On the strong lines, too (v. 953.), upon Clarke (a writer in a magazine called
the Satirist), he remarks,--"Right enough,--this was well deserved and well laid on."

To the whole paragraph, beginning "Illustrious Holland," are affixed the words "Bad enough;--and
on mistaken grounds besides." The bitter verses against Lord Carlisle he pronounces "Wrong
also:--the provocation was not sufficient to justify such acerbity;"--and of a subsequent note
respecting the same nobleman, he says, "Much too savage, whatever the foundation may be." Of
Rosa Matilda (v. 738.) he tells us, "She has since married the Morning Post,--an exceeding
good match." To the verses, "When some brisk youth, the tenant of a stall," &c., he has appended
the following interesting note:--"This was meant at poor Blackett, who was then patronised
by A.I.B.[104];--but that I did not know, or this would not have been written; at least I think
not."

Farther on, where Mr. Campbell and other poets are mentioned, the following gingle on the names
of their respective poems is scribbled:--

    "Pretty Miss Jacqueline
    Had a nose aquiline;
    And would assert rude
    Things of Miss Gertrude;
    While Mr. Marmion
    Led a great army on,
    Making Kehama look
    Like a fierce Mamaluke."

Opposite the paragraph in praise of Mr. Crabbe he has written, "I consider Crabbe and Coleridge
as the first of these times in point of power and genius." On his own line, in a subsequent
paragraph, "And glory, like the phoenix mid her fires," he says, comically, "The devil take
that phoenix--how came it there?" and his concluding remark on the whole poem is as follows:--

"The greater part of this satire I most sincerely wish had never been written; not only on
account of the injustice of much of the critical and some of the personal part of it, but the
tone and temper are such as I cannot approve.

BYRON."

"Diodata, Geneva, July 14. 1816."

While engaged in preparing his new edition for the press, he was also gaily dispensing the
hospitalities of Newstead to a party of young college friends, whom, with the prospect of so
long an absence from England, he had assembled round him at the Abbey, for a sort of festive
farewell. The following letter from one of the party, Charles Skinner Matthews, though containing
much less of the noble host himself than we could have wished, yet, as a picture, taken freshly
and at the moment, of a scene so pregnant with character, will, I have little doubt, be highly
acceptable to the reader.

LETTER FROM CHARLES SKINNER MATTHEWS, ESQ.

Having put the finishing hand to his new edition, he, without waiting for the fresh honours
that were in store for him, took leave of London (whither he had returned) on the 11th of June,
and, in about a fortnight after, sailed for Lisbon.

Great as was the advance which his powers had made, under the influence of that resentment
from which he now drew his inspiration, they were yet, even in his Satire, at an immeasurable
distance from the point to which they afterwards so triumphantly rose. It is, indeed, remarkable
that, essentially as his genius seemed connected with, and, as it were, springing out of his
character, the developement of the one should so long have preceded the full maturity of the
resources of the other. By her very early and rapid expansion of his sensibilities, Nature
had given him notice of what she destined him for, long before he understood the call; and
those materials of poetry with which his own fervid temperament abounded were but by slow degrees,
and after much self-meditation, revealed to him. In his Satire, though vigorous, there is but
little foretaste of the wonders that followed it. His spirit was stirred, but he had not yet
looked down into its depths, nor does even his bitterness taste of the bottom of the heart,
like those sarcasms which he afterwards flung in the face of mankind. Still less had the other
countless feelings and passions, with which his soul had been long labouring, found an organ
worthy of them;--the gloom, the grandeur, the tenderness of his nature, all were left without
a voice, till his mighty genius, at last, awakened in its strength.

In stooping, as he did, to write after established models, as well in the Satire as in his
still earlier poems, he showed how little he had yet explored his own original resources, or
found out those distinctive marks by which he was to be known through all times. But, bold
and energetic as was his general character, he was, in a remarkable degree, diffident in his
intellectual powers. The consciousness of what he could achieve was but by degrees forced upon
him, and the discovery of so rich a mine of genius in his soul came with no less surprise on
himself than on the world. It was from the same slowness of self-appreciation that, afterwards,
in the full flow of his fame, he long doubted, as we shall see, his own aptitude for works
of wit and humour,--till the happy experiment of "Beppo" at once dissipated this distrust,
and opened a new region of triumph to his versatile and boundless powers.

But, however far short of himself his first writings must be considered, there is in his Satire
a liveliness of thought, and still more a vigour and courage, which, concurring with the justice
of his cause and the sympathies of the public on his side, could not fail to attach instant
celebrity to his name. Notwithstanding, too, the general boldness and recklessness of his tone,
there were occasionally mingled with this defiance some allusions to his own fate and character,
whose affecting earnestness seemed to answer for their truth, and which were of a nature strongly
to awaken curiosity as well as interest. One or two of these passages, as illustrative of the
state of his mind at this period, I shall here extract. The loose and unfenced state in which
his youth was left to grow wild upon the world is thus touchingly alluded to:--

      "Ev'n I, least thinking of a thoughtless throng,
      Just skill'd to know the right and choose the wrong,
      Freed at that age when Reason's shield is lost
      To fight my course through Passion's countless host,
      Whom every path of Pleasure's flowery way
      Has lured in turn, and all have led astray[105]--
      Ev'n I must raise my voice, ev'n I must feel
      Such scenes, such men destroy the public weal:
      Although some kind, censorious friend will say,
      'What art thou better, meddling fool,[106] than they?'
      And every brother Rake will smile to see
      That miracle, a Moralist, in me."

But the passage in which, hastily thrown off as it is, we find the strongest traces of that
wounded feeling, which bleeds, as it were, through all his subsequent writings, is the following:--

    "The time hath been, when no harsh sound would fall
    From lips that now may seem imbued with gall,
    Nor fools nor follies tempt me to despise
    The meanest thing that crawl'd beneath my eyes.
    But now so callous grown, so changed from youth," &c.

Some of the causes that worked this change in his character have been intimated in the course
of the preceding pages. That there was no tinge of bitterness in his natural disposition, we
have abundant testimony, besides his own, to prove. Though, as a child, occasionally passionate
and headstrong, his docility and kindness towards those who were themselves kind, is acknowledged
by all; and "playful" and "affectionate" are invariably the epithets by which those who knew
him in his childhood convey their impression of his character.

Of all the qualities, indeed, of his nature, affectionateness seems to have been the most ardent
and most deep. A disposition, on his own side, to form strong attachments, and a yearning desire
after affection in return, were the feeling and the want that formed the dream and torment
of his existence. We have seen with what passionate enthusiasm he threw himself into his boyish
friendships. The all-absorbing and unsuccessful love that followed was, if I may so say, the
agony, without being the death, of this unsated desire, which lived on through his life, and
filled his poetry with the very soul of tenderness, lent the colouring of its light to even
those unworthy ties which vanity or passion led him afterwards to form, and was the last aspiration
of his fervid spirit in those stanzas written but a few months before his death:--

    "'Tis time this heart should be unmoved,
       Since others it has ceased to move;
     Yet, though I cannot be beloved,
              Still let me love!"

It is much, I own, to be questioned, whether, even under the most favourable circumstances,
a disposition such as I have here described could have escaped ultimate disappointment, or
found any where a resting-place for its imaginings and desires. But, in the case of Lord Byron,
disappointment met him on the very threshold of life. His mother, to whom his affections first,
naturally with ardour, turned, either repelled them rudely, or capriciously trifled with them.
In speaking of his early days to a friend at Genoa, a short time before his departure for Greece,
he traced the first feelings of pain and humiliation he had ever known to the coldness with
which his mother had received his caresses in infancy, and the frequent taunts on his personal
deformity with which she had wounded him.

The sympathy of a sister's love, of all the influences on the mind of a youth the most softening,
was also, in his early days, denied to him,--his sister Augusta and he having seen but little
of each other while young. A vent through the calm channel of domestic affections might have
brought down the high current of his feelings to a level nearer that of the world he had to
traverse, and thus saved them from the tumultuous rapids and falls to which this early elevation,
in their after-course, exposed them. In the dearth of all home-endearments, his heart had no
other resource but in those boyish friendships which he formed at school; and when these were
interrupted by his removal to Cambridge, he was again thrown back, isolated, on his own restless
desires. Then followed his ill-fated attachment to Miss Chaworth, to which, more than to any
other cause, he himself attributed the desolating change then wrought in his disposition.

"I doubt sometimes (he says, in his 'Detached Thoughts,') whether, after all, a quiet and unagitated
life would have suited me; yet I sometimes long for it. My earliest dreams (as most boys' dreams
are) were martial; but a little later they were all for love and retirement, till the hopeless
attachment to M---- C---- began and continued (though sedulously concealed) very early in my
teens; and so upwards for a time. This threw me out again 'alone on a wide, wide sea.' In the
year 1804 I recollect meeting my sister at General Harcourt's, in Portland Place. I was then
one thing, and as she had always till then found me. When we met again in 1805 (she told me
since) that my temper and disposition were so completely altered, that I was hardly to be recognised.
I was not then sensible of the change; but I can believe it, and account for it."

I have already described his parting with Miss Chaworth previously to her marriage. Once again,
after that event, he saw her, and for the last time,--being invited by Mr. Chaworth to dine
at Annesley not long before his departure from England. The few years that had elapsed since
their last meeting had made a considerable change in the appearance and manners of the young
poet. The fat, unformed schoolboy was now a slender and graceful young man. Those emotions
and passions which at first heighten, and then destroy, beauty, had as yet produced only their
favourable effects on his features; and, though with but little aid from the example of refined
society, his manners had subsided into that tone of gentleness and self-possession which more
than any thing marks the well-bred gentleman. Once only was the latter of these qualities put
to the trial, when the little daughter of his fair hostess was brought into the room. At the
sight of the child he started involuntarily,--it was with the utmost difficulty he could conceal
his emotion; and to the sensations of that moment we are indebted for those touching stanzas,
"Well--thou art happy," &c.,[107] which appeared afterwards in a Miscellany published by one
of his friends, and are now to be found in the general collection of his works. Under the influence
of the same despondent passion, he wrote two other poems at this period, from which, as they
exist only in the Miscellany I have just alluded to, and that collection has for some time
been out of print, a few stanzas may, not improperly, be extracted here.

    "THE FAREWELL--TO A LADY.[108]

    "When man, expell'd from Eden's bowers,
      A moment linger'd near the gate,
    Each scene recall'd the vanish'd hours,
      And bade him curse his future fate.

    "But wandering on through distant climes,
      He learnt to bear his load of grief;
    Just gave a sigh to other times,
      And found in busier scenes relief.

    "Thus, lady,[109] must it be with me,
      And I must view thy charms no more!
    For, whilst I linger near to thee,
      I sigh for all I knew before," &c. &c.

The other poem is, throughout, full of tenderness; but I shall give only what appear to me
the most striking stanzas.

"STANZAS TO ---- ON LEAVING ENGLAND.

    "'Tis done--and shivering in the gale
    The bark unfurls her snowy sail;
    And whistling o'er the bending mast,
    Loud sings on high the fresh'ning blast;
    And I must from this land be gone,
    Because I cannot love but one.

    "As some lone bird, without a mate,
    My weary heart is desolate;
    I look around, and cannot trace
    One friendly smile or welcome face,
    And ev'n in crowds am still alone,
    Because I cannot love but one.

    "And I will cross the whitening foam,
    And I will seek a foreign home;
    Till I forget a false fair face,
    I ne'er shall find a resting-place;
    My own dark thoughts I cannot shun,
    But ever love, and love but one.

    "I go--but wheresoe'er I flee
    There's not an eye will weep for me;
    There's not a kind congenial heart,
    Where I can claim the meanest part;
    Nor thou, who hast my hopes undone,
    Wilt sigh, although I love but one.

    "To think of every early scene,
    Of what we are, and what we've been,
    Would whelm some softer hearts with woe--
    But mine, alas! has stood the blow;
    Yet still beats on as it begun,
    And never truly loves but one.

    "And who that dear loved one may be
    Is not for vulgar eyes to see,
    And why that early love was crost,
    Thou know'st the best, I feel the most;
    But few that dwell beneath the sun
    Have loved so long, and loved but one.

    "I've tried another's fetters, too,
    With charms, perchance, as fair to view;
    And I would fain have loved as well,
    But some unconquerable spell
    Forbade my bleeding breast to own
    A kindred care for aught but one.

    "'Twould soothe to take one lingering view,
    And bless thee in my last adieu;
    Yet wish I not those eyes to weep
    For him that wanders o'er the deep;
    His home, his hope, his youth, are gone,
    Yet still he loves, and loves but one."[110]

While thus, in all the relations of the heart, his thirst after affection was thwarted, in
another instinct of his nature, not less strong--the desire of eminence and distinction--he
was, in an equal degree, checked in his aspirings, and mortified. The inadequacy of his means
to his station was early a source of embarrassment and humiliation to him; and those high,
patrician notions of birth in which he indulged but made the disparity between his fortune
and his rank the more galling. Ambition, however, soon whispered to him that there were other
and nobler ways to distinction. The eminence which talent builds for itself might, one day,
he proudly felt, be his own; nor was it too sanguine to hope that, under the favour accorded
usually to youth, he might with impunity venture on his first steps to fame. But here, as in
every other object of his heart, disappointment and mortification awaited him. Instead of experiencing
the ordinary forbearance, if not indulgence, with which young aspirants for fame are received
by their critics, he found himself instantly the victim of such unmeasured severity as is not
often dealt out even to veteran offenders in literature; and, with a heart fresh from the trials
of disappointed love, saw those resources and consolations which he had sought in the exercise
of his intellectual strength also invaded.

While thus prematurely broken into the pains of life, a no less darkening effect was produced
upon him by too early an initiation into its pleasures. That charm with which the fancy of
youth invests an untried world was, in his case, soon dissipated. His passions had, at the
very onset of their career, forestalled the future; and the blank void that followed was by
himself considered as one of the causes of that melancholy, which now settled so deeply into
his character.

"My passions" (he says, in his 'Detached Thoughts') "were developed very early--so early that
few would believe me if I were to state the period and the facts which accompanied it. Perhaps
this was one of the reasons which caused the anticipated melancholy of my thoughts,--having
anticipated life. My earlier poems are the thoughts of one at least ten years older than the
age at which they were written,--I don't mean for their solidity, but their experience. The
two first Cantos of Childe Harold were completed at twenty-two; and they are written as if
by a man older than I shall probably ever be."

Though the allusions in the first sentence of this extract have reference to a much earlier
period, they afford an opportunity of remarking, that however dissipated may have been the
life which he led during the two or three years previous to his departure on his travels, yet
the notion caught up by many, from his own allusions, in Childe Harold, to irregularities and
orgies of which Newstead had been the scene, is, like most other imputations against him, founded
on his own testimony, greatly exaggerated. He describes, it is well known, the home of his
poetical representative as a "monastic dome, condemned to uses vile," and then adds,--

    "Where Superstition once had made her den,
    Now Paphian girls were known to sing and smile."

Mr. Dallas, too, giving in to the same strain of exaggeration, says, in speaking of the poet's
preparations for his departure, "already satiated with pleasure, and disgusted with those companions
who have no other resource, he had resolved on mastering his appetites;--he broke up his harams."
The truth, however, is, that the narrowness of Lord Byron's means would alone have prevented
such oriental luxuries. The mode of his life at Newstead was simple and unexpensive. His companions,
though not averse to convivial indulgences, were of habits and tastes too intellectual for
mere vulgar debauchery; and, with respect to the alleged "harams," it appears certain that
one or two suspected "subintroductæ" (as the ancient monks of the abbey would have styled them),
and those, too, among the ordinary menials of the establishment, were all that even scandal
itself could ever fix upon to warrant such an assumption. In general we find the young too
ardently occupied with the enjoyments which this life gives or promises to afford either leisure
or inclination for much enquiry into the mysteries of the next. But with him it was unluckily
otherwise; and to have, at once, anticipated the worst experience both of the voluptuary and
the reasoner,--to have reached, as he supposed, the boundary of this world's pleasures, and
see nothing but "clouds and darkness" beyond, was the doom, the anomalous doom, which a nature,
premature in all its passions and powers, inflicted on Lord Byron.

When Pope, at the age of five-and-twenty, complained of being weary of the world, he was told
by Swift that he "had not yet acted or suffered enough in the world to have become weary of
it."[111] But far different was the youth of Pope and of Byron;--what the former but anticipated
in thought, the latter had drunk deep of in reality;--at an age when the one was but looking
forth on the sea of life, the other had plunged in, and tried its depths. Swift himself, in
whom early disappointments and wrongs had opened a vein of bitterness that never again closed,
affords a far closer parallel to the fate of our noble poet,[112] as well in the untimeliness
of the trials he had been doomed to encounter, as in the traces of their havoc which they left
in his character.

That the romantic fancy of youth, which courts melancholy as an indulgence, and loves to assume
a sadness it has not had time to earn, may have had some share in, at least, fostering the
gloom by which the mind of the young poet was overcast, I am not disposed to deny. The circumstance,
indeed, of his having, at this time, among the ornaments of his study, a number of skulls highly
polished, and placed on light stands round the room, would seem to indicate that he rather
courted than shunned such gloomy associations.[113] Being a sort of boyish mimickry, too, of
the use to which the poet Young is said to have applied a skull, such a display might well
induce some suspicion of the sincerity of his gloom, did we not, through the whole course of
his subsequent life and writings, track visibly the deep vein of melancholy which nature had
imbedded in his character.

Such was the state of mind and heart,--as, from his own testimony and that of others, I have
collected it,--in which Lord Byron now set out on his indefinite pilgrimage; and never was
there a change wrought in disposition and character to which Shakspeare's fancy of "sweet bells
jangled out of tune" more truly applied. The unwillingness of Lord Carlisle to countenance
him, and his humiliating position in consequence, completed the full measure of that mortification
towards which so many other causes had concurred. Baffled, as he had been, in his own ardent
pursuit of affection and friendship, his sole revenge and consolation lay in doubting that
any such feelings really existed. The various crosses he had met with, in themselves sufficiently
irritating and wounding, were rendered still more so by the high, impatient temper with which
he encountered them. What others would have bowed to, as misfortunes, his proud spirit rose
against, as wrongs; and the vehemence of this re-action produced, at once, a revolution throughout
his whole character,[114] in which, as in revolutions of the political world, all that was
bad and irregular in his nature burst forth with all that was most energetic and grand. The
very virtues and excellencies of his disposition ministered to the violence of this change.
The same ardour that had burned through his friendships and loves now fed the fierce explosions
of his indignation and scorn. His natural vivacity and humour but lent a fresher flow to his
bitterness,[115] till he, at last, revelled in it as an indulgence; and that hatred of hypocrisy,
which had hitherto only shown itself in a too shadowy colouring of his own youthful frailties,
now hurried him, from his horror of all false pretensions to virtue, into the still more dangerous
boast and ostentation of vice.

The following letter to his mother, written a few days before he sailed, gives some particulars
respecting the persons who composed his suit. Robert Rushton, whom he mentions so feelingly
in the postscript, was the boy introduced, as his page, in the first Canto of Childe Harold.

LETTER 34.

TO MRS. BYRON.

To those who have in their remembrance his poetical description of the state of mind in which
he now took leave of England, the gaiety and levity of the letters I am about to give will
appear, it is not improbable, strange and startling. But, in a temperament like that of Lord
Byron, such bursts of vivacity on the surface are by no means incompatible with a wounded spirit
underneath;[116] and the light, laughing tone that pervades these letters but makes the feeling
of solitariness that breaks out in them the more striking and affecting.

LETTER 35.

TO MR. HENRY DRURY.

"Falmouth, June 25.

GHOST OF GAFFER THUMB.

"Adieu.--Believe me," &c. &c.

LETTER 36.

On the second of July the packet sailed from Falmouth, and, after a favourable passage of four
days and a half, the voyagers reached Lisbon, and took up their abode in that city.[118]

The following letters, from Lord Byron to his friend Mr. Hodgson, though written in his most
light and schoolboy strain, will give some idea of the first impressions that his residence
in Lisbon made upon him. Such letters, too, contrasted with the noble stanzas on Portugal in
"Childe Harold," will show how various were the moods of his versatile mind, and what different
aspects it could take when in repose or on the wing.

LETTER 37. But what of that?

To these adventures, or rather glimpses of adventures, which he met with in his hasty passage
through Spain, he adverted, I recollect, briefly, in the early part of his "Memoranda;" and
it was the younger, I think, of his fair hostesses at Seville, whom he there described himself
as making earnest love to, with the help of a dictionary. "Soon after this," said he, "I sailed
for Malta, and there parted with both my heart and ring." His plan of visiting Africa was,
however, relinquished. After a short stay at Gibraltar, during which he dined one day with
Lady Westmoreland, and another with General Castanos, he, on the 19th of August, took his departure
for Malta, in the packet, having first sent Joe Murray and young Rushton back to England,--the
latter being unable, from ill health, to accompany him any further. "Pray," he says to his
mother, "show the lad every kindness, as he is my great favourite."[124]

He also wrote a letter to the father of the boy, which gives so favourable an impression of
his thoughtfulness and kindliness that I have much pleasure in being enabled to introduce it here.

LETTER 39.

It was the fate of Lord Byron, throughout life, to meet, wherever he went, with persons who,
by some tinge of the extraordinary in their own fates or characters, were prepared to enter,
at once, into full sympathy with his; and to this attraction, by which he drew towards him
all strange and eccentric spirits, he owed some of the most agreeable connections of his life,
as well as some of the most troublesome. Of the former description was an intimacy which he
now cultivated during his short sojourn at Malta.

The tone in which he addresses this fair heroine in Childe Harold is (consistently with the
above dispassionate account of her) that of the purest admiration and interest, unwarmed by
any more ardent sentiment:--

      "Sweet Florence! could another ever share
      This wayward, loveless heart, it would be thine:
      But, check'd by every tie, I may not dare
      To cast a worthless offering at thy shrine,
    Nor ask so dear a breast to feel one pang for mine.

      "Thus Harold deem'd as on that lady's eye
      He look'd, and met its beam without a thought,
      Save admiration, glancing harmless by," &c. &c.

In one so imaginative as Lord Byron, who, while he infused so much of his life into his poetry,
mingled also not a little of poetry with his life, it is difficult, in unravelling the texture
of his feelings, to distinguish at all times between the fanciful and the real. His description
here, for instance, of the unmoved and "loveless heart," with which he contemplated even the
charms of this attractive person, is wholly at variance, not only with the anecdote from his
"Memoranda" which I have recalled, but with the statements in many of his subsequent letters,
and, above all, with one of the most graceful of his lesser poems, purporting to be addressed
to this same lady during a thunder-storm, on his road to Zitza.[125]

Notwithstanding, however, these counter evidences, I am much disposed to believe that the representation
of the state of heart in the foregoing extract from Childe Harold may be regarded as the true
one; and that the notion of his being in love was but a dream that sprung up afterwards, when
the image of the fair Florence had become idealised in his fancy, and every remembrance of
their pleasant hours among "Calypso's isles" came invested by his imagination with the warm
aspect of love. It will be recollected that to the chilled and sated feelings which early indulgence,
and almost as early disenchantment, had left behind, he attributes in these verses the calm
and passionless regard, with which even attractions like those of Florence were viewed by him.
That such was actually his distaste, at this period, to all real objects of love or passion
(however his fancy could call up creatures of its own to worship) there is every reason to
believe; and the same morbid indifference to those pleasures he had once so ardently pursued
still continued to be professed by him on his return to England. No anchoret, indeed, could
claim for himself much more apathy towards all such allurements than he did at that period.
But to be thus saved from temptation was a dear-bought safety, and, at the age of three-and-twenty,
satiety and disgust are but melancholy substitutes for virtue.

The brig of war, in which they sailed, having been ordered to convoy a fleet of small merchant-men
to Patras and Prevesa, they remained, for two or three days, at anchor off the former place.
From thence, proceeding to their ultimate destination, and catching a sunset view of Missolonghi
in their way, they landed, on the 29th of September, at Prevesa.

The route which Lord Byron now took through Albania, as well as those subsequent journeys through
other parts of Turkey, which he performed in company with his friend Mr. Hobhouse, may be traced,
by such as are desirous of details on the subject, in the account which the latter gentleman
has given of his travels; an account which, interesting from its own excellence in every merit
that should adorn such a work, becomes still more so from the feeling that Lord Byron is, as
it were, present through its pages, and that we there follow his first youthful footsteps into
the land with whose name he has intertwined his own for ever. As I am enabled, however, by
the letters of the noble poet to his mother, as well as by others, still more curious, which
are now, for the first time, published, to give his own rapid and lively sketches of his wanderings,
I shall content myself, after this general reference to the volume of Mr. Hobhouse, with such
occasional extracts from its pages as may throw light upon the letters of his friend.

LETTER 40.

TO MRS. BYRON. By the by, I expect H---- to remit regularly; for I am not about to stay in
this province for ever. I will write when I can, and beg you to believe me,

Your affectionate son,

"BYRON."

About the middle of November, the young traveller took his departure from Prevesa (the place
where the foregoing letter was written), and proceeded, attended by his guard of fifty Albanians,[131]
through Acarnania and Ætolia, towards the Morea.

      "And therefore did he take a trusty band
      To traverse Acarnania's forest wide,
      In war well season'd, and with labours tann'd,
      Till he did greet white Achelous' tide,
    And from his further bank Ætolia's wolds espied."

    CHILDE HAROLD, Canto II.

His description of the night-scene at Utraikey (a small place situated in one of the bays of
the Gulf of Arta) is, no doubt, vividly in the recollection of every reader of these pages;
nor will it diminish their enjoyment of the wild beauties of that picture to be made acquainted
with the real circumstances on which it was founded, in the following animated details of the
same scene by his fellow-traveller:--

"In the evening the gates were secured, and preparations were made for feeding our Albanians.
A goat was killed and roasted whole, and four fires were kindled in the yard, round which the
soldiers seated themselves in parties. After eating and drinking, the greater part of them
assembled round the largest of the fires, and whilst ourselves and the elders of the party
were seated on the ground, danced round the blaze to their own songs, in the manner before
described, but with an astonishing energy. All their songs were relations of some robbing exploits.
One of them, which detained them more than an hour, began thus:--'When we set out from Parga
there were sixty of us:'--then came the burden of the verse,

    "'Robbers all at Parga!
      Robbers all at Parga!

    "'Κλεφτεις ποτε Παργα!
      Κλεφτεις ποτε Παργα!'

And as they roared out this stave they whirled round the fire, dropped and rebounded from their
knees, and again whirled round as the chorus was again repeated. The rippling of the waves
upon the pebbly margin where we were seated filled up the pauses of the song with a milder
and not more monotonous music. The night was very dark, but by the flashes of the fires we
caught a glimpse of the woods, the rocks, and the lake, which, together with the wild appearance
of the dancers, presented us with a scene that would have made a fine picture in the hands
of such an artist as the author of the Mysteries of Udolpho."

Having traversed Acarnania, the travellers passed to the Ætolian side of the Achelous, and
on the 21st of November reached Missolonghi. And here, it is impossible not to pause, and send
a mournful thought forward to the visit which, fifteen years after, he paid to this same spot,
when, in the full meridian both of his age and fame, he came to lay down his life as the champion
of that land, through which he now wandered a stripling and a stranger. Could some spirit have
here revealed to him the events of that interval,--have shown him, on the one side, the triumphs
that awaited him, the power his varied genius would acquire over all hearts, alike to elevate
or depress, to darken or illuminate them,--and then place, on the other side, all the penalties
of this gift, the waste and wear of the heart through the imagination, the havoc of that perpetual
fire within, which, while it dazzles others, consumes the possessor,--the invidiousness of
such an elevation in the eyes of mankind, and the revenge they take on him who compels them
to look up to it,--would he, it may be asked, have welcomed glory on such conditions? would
he not rather have felt that the purchase was too costly, and that such warfare with an ungrateful
world, while living, would be ill recompensed even by the immortality it might award him afterwards?

At Missolonghi he dismissed his whole band of Albanians, with the exception of one, named Dervish,
whom he took into his service, and who, with Basilius, the attendant allotted him by Ali Pacha,
continued with him during the remainder of his stay in the East. After a residence of near
a fortnight at Patras, he next directed his course to Vostizza,--on approaching which town
the snowy peak of Parnassus, towering on the other side of the Gulf, first broke on his eyes;
and in two days after, among the sacred hollows of Delphi, the stanzas, with which that vision
had inspired him, were written.[132]

It was at this time, that, in riding along the sides of Parnassus, he saw an unusually large
flight of eagles in the air,--a phenomenon which seems to have affected his imagination with
a sort of poetical superstition, as he, more than once, recurs to the circumstance in his journals.

He has also, in reference to this journey from Patras, related a little anecdote of his own
sportsmanship, which, by all but sportsmen, will be thought creditable to his humanity.

To a traveller in Greece, there are few things more remarkable than the diminutive extent of
those countries, which have filled such a wide space in fame. "A man might very easily," says
Mr. Hobhouse, "at a moderate pace ride from Livadia to Thebes and back again between breakfast
and dinner; and the tour of all Bœotia might certainly be made in two days without baggage."
Having visited, within a very short space of time, the fountains of Memory and Oblivion at
Livadia, and the haunts of the Ismenian Apollo at Thebes, the travellers at length turned towards
Athens, the city of their dreams, and, after crossing Mount Cithæron, arrived in sight of the
ruins of Phyle, on the evening of Christmas-day, 1809.

Though the poet has left, in his own verses, an ever-during testimony of the enthusiasm with
which he now contemplated the scenes around him, it is not difficult to conceive that, to superficial
observers, Lord Byron at Athens might have appeared an untouched spectator of much that throws
ordinary travellers into, at least, verbal raptures. For pretenders of every sort, whether
in taste or morals, he entertained, at all times, the most profound contempt; and if, frequently,
his real feelings of admiration disguised themselves under an affected tone of indifference
and mockery, it was out of pure hostility to the cant of those, who, he well knew, praised
without any feeling at all. It must be owned, too, that while he thus justly despised the raptures
of the common herd of travellers, there were some pursuits, even of the intelligent and tasteful,
in which he took but very little interest. With the antiquarian and connoisseur his sympathies
were few and feeble:--"I am not a collector," he says, in one of his notes on Childe Harold,
"nor an admirer of collections." For antiquities, indeed, unassociated with high names and
deeds, he had no value whatever; and of works of art he was content to admire the general effect,
without professing, or aiming at, any knowledge of the details. It was to nature, in her lonely
scenes of grandeur and beauty, or as at Athens, shining, unchanged, among the ruins of glory
and of art, that the true fervid homage of his whole soul was paid. In the few notices of his
travels, appended to Childe Harold, we find the sites and scenery of the different places he
visited far more fondly dwelt upon than their classic or historical associations. To the valley
of Zitza he reverts, both in prose and verse, with a much warmer recollection than to Delphi
or the Troad; and the plain of Athens itself is chiefly praised by him as "a more glorious
prospect than even Cintra or Istambol." Where, indeed, could Nature assert such claims to his
worship as in scenes like these, where he beheld her blooming, in indestructible beauty, amid
the wreck of all that man deems most worthy of duration? "Human institutions," says Harris,
"perish, but Nature is permanent:"--or, as Lord Byron has amplified this thought[133] in one
of his most splendid passages:--

      "Yet are thy skies as blue, thy crags as wild;
      Sweet are thy groves, and verdant are thy fields,
      Thine olive ripe as when Minerva smiled,
      And still his honeyed wealth Hymettus yields;
      There the blithe bee his fragrant fortress builds,
      The free-born wanderer of thy mountain-air;
      Apollo still thy long, long summer gilds,
      Still in his beam Mendeli's marbles glare;
    Art, Glory, Freedom fail, but Nature still is fair."

    CHILDE HAROLD, Canto II.

At Athens, on this his first visit, he made a stay of between two and three months, not a day
of which he let pass without employing some of its hours in visiting the grand monuments of
ancient genius around him, and calling up the spirit of other times among their ruins. He made
frequently, too, excursions to different parts of Attica; and it was in one of his visits to
Cape Colonna, at this time, that he was near being seized by a party of Mainotes, who were
lying hid in the caves under the cliff of Minerva Sunias. These pirates, it appears, were only
deterred from attacking him (as a Greek, who was then their prisoner, informed him afterwards)
by a supposition that the two Albanians, whom they saw attending him, were but part of a complete
guard he had at hand.

In addition to all the magic of its names and scenes, the city of Minerva possessed another
sort of attraction for the poet, to which, wherever he went, his heart, or rather imagination,
was but too sensible. His pretty song, "Maid of Athens, ere we part," is said to have been
addressed to the eldest daughter of the Greek lady at whose house he lodged; and that the fair
Athenian, when he composed these verses, may have been the tenant, for the time being, of his
fancy, is highly possible.

The fame of an illustrious poet is not confined to his own person and writings, but imparts
a share of its splendour to whatever has been, even remotely, connected with him; and not only
ennobles the objects of his friendships, his loves, and even his likings, but on every spot
where he has sojourned through life, leaves traces of its light that do not easily pass away.
Little did the Maid of Athens, while listening innocently to the compliments of the young Englishman,
foresee that a day would come when he should make her name and home so celebrated that travellers,
on their return from Greece, would find few things more interesting to their hearers than such
details of herself and her family as the following:--

"Our servant, who had gone before to procure accommodation, met us at the gate and conducted
us to Theodora Macri, the Consulina's, where we at present live. This lady is the widow of
the consul, and has three lovely daughters; the eldest celebrated for her beauty, and said
to be the subject of those stanzas by Lord Byron,--

  "'Maid of Athens, ere we part,
    Give, oh, give me back my heart!' &c.

"At Orchomenus, where stood the Temple of the Graces, I was tempted to exclaim, 'Whither have
the Graces fled?'--Little did I expect to find them here. Yet here comes one of them with golden
cups and coffee, and another with a book. The book is a register of names, some of which are
far sounded by the voice of fame. Their apartment is immediately opposite to ours, and if you
could see them, as we do now, through the gently waving aromatic plants before our window,
you would leave your heart in Athens.

"Theresa, the Maid of Athens, Catinco, and Mariana, are of middle stature. On the crown of
the head of each is a red Albanian skull-cap, with a blue tassel spread out and fastened down
like a star. Near the edge or bottom of the skull-cap is a handkerchief of various colours
bound round their temples. The youngest wears her hair loose, falling on her shoulders,--the
hair behind descending down the back nearly to the waist, and, as usual, mixed with silk. The
two eldest generally have their hair bound, and fastened under the handkerchief. Their upper
robe is a pelisse edged with fur, hanging loose down to the ankles; below is a handkerchief
of muslin covering the bosom, and terminating at the waist, which is short; under that, a gown
of striped silk or muslin, with a gore round the swell of the loins, falling in front in graceful
negligence;--white stockings and yellow slippers complete their attire. The two eldest have
black, or dark hair and eyes; their visage oval, and complexion somewhat pale, with teeth of
dazzling whiteness. Their cheeks are rounded, and noses straight, rather inclined to aquiline.
The youngest, Mariana, is very fair, her face not so finely rounded, but has a gayer expression
than her sisters', whose countenances, except when the conversation has something of mirth
in it, may be said to be rather pensive. Their persons are elegant, and their manners pleasing
and lady-like, such as would be fascinating in any country. They possess very considerable
powers of conversation, and their minds seem to be more instructed than those of the Greek
women in general. With such attractions it would, indeed, be remarkable, if they did not meet
with great attentions from the travellers who occasionally are resident in Athens. They sit
in the eastern style, a little reclined, with their limbs gathered under them on the divan,
and without shoes. Their employments are the needle, tambouring, and reading.

"I have said that I saw these Grecian beauties through the waving aromatic plants before their
window. This, perhaps, has raised your imagination somewhat too high, in regard to their condition.
You may have supposed their dwelling to have every attribute of eastern luxury. The golden
cups, too, may have thrown a little witchery over your excited fancy. Confess, do you not imagine
that the doors

      "'Self-open'd into halls, where, who can tell
      What elegance and grandeur wide expand,
      The pride of Turkey and of Persia's land;
      Soft quilts on quilts, on carpets carpets spread,
      And couches stretch'd around in seemly band,
      And endless pillows rise to prop the head,
    So that each spacious room was one full swelling bed?'

"You will shortly perceive the propriety of my delaying, till now, to inform you that the aromatic
plants which I have mentioned are neither more nor less than a few geraniums and Grecian balms,
and that the room in which the ladies sit is quite unfurnished, the walls neither painted nor
decorated by 'cunning hand.' Then, what would have become of the Graces had I told you sooner
that a single room is all they have, save a little closet and a kitchen? You see how careful
I have been to make the first impression good; not that they do not merit every praise, but
that it is in man's august and elevated nature to think a little slightingly of merit, and
even of beauty, if not supported by some worldly show. Now, I shall communicate to you a secret,
but in the lowest whisper.

"These ladies, since the death of the consul, their father, depend on strangers living in their
spare room and closet,--which we now occupy. But, though so poor, their virtue shines as conspicuously
as their beauty.

"Not all the wealth of the East, or the complimentary lays even of the first of England's poets,
could render them so truly worthy of love and admiration."[134]

Ten weeks had flown rapidly away, when the unexpected offer of a passage in an English sloop
of war to Smyrna induced the travellers to make immediate preparations for departure, and,
on the 5th of March, they reluctantly took leave of Athens. "Passing," says Mr. Hobhouse, "through
the gate leading to the Piraeus, we struck into the olive-wood on the road going to Salamis,
galloping at a quick pace, in order to rid ourselves, by hurry, of the pain of parting." He
adds, "We could not refrain from looking back, as we passed rapidly to the shore, and we continued
to direct our eyes towards the spot, where we had caught the last glimpse of the Theséum and
the ruins of the Parthenon through the vistas in the woods, for many minutes after the city
and the Acropolis had been totally hidden from our view."

At Smyrna Lord Byron took up his residence in the house of the consul-general, and remained
there, with the exception of two or three days employed in a visit to the ruins of Ephesus,
till the 11th of April. It was during this time, as appears from a memorandum of his own, that
the two first Cantos of Childe Harold, which he had begun five months before at Ioannina, were
completed.

From Smyrna the only letter, at all interesting, which I am enabled to present to the reader,
is the following:--

LETTER 41.

TO MRS. BYRON.

On the 11th of April he left Smyrna in the Salsette frigate, which had been ordered to Constantinople,
for the purpose of conveying the ambassador, Mr. Adair, to England, and, after an exploratory
visit to the ruins of Troas, arrived, at the beginning of the following month, in the Dardanelles.--While
the frigate was at anchor in these straits, the following letters to his friends Mr. Drury
and Mr. Hodgson were written.

LETTER 42.

Your ταπεινοτατοϛ δουλοϛ,

"BYRON."

LETTER 43. The exceeding pride, indeed, which he took in this classic feat (the particulars
of which he has himself abundantly detailed) may be cited among the instances of that boyishness
of character, which he carried with him so remarkably into his maturer years, and which, while
it puzzled distant observers of his conduct, was not among the least amusing or attaching of
his peculiarities to those who knew him intimately. So late as eleven years from this period,
when some sceptical traveller ventured to question, after all, the practicability of Leander's
exploit, Lord Byron, with that jealousy on the subject of his own personal prowess which he
retained from boyhood, entered again, with fresh zeal, into the discussion, and brought forward
two or three other instances of his own feats in swimming,[137] to corroborate the statement
originally made by him.

LETTER 44.

I am yours, very sincerely,

"BYRON."

About ten days after the date of this letter, we find another addressed to Mrs. Byron, which--with
much that is merely a repetition of what he had detailed in former communications--contains
also a good deal worthy of being extracted.

LETTER 45.

TO MRS. BYRON.

The reader has not, I trust, passed carelessly over the latter part of this letter. There is
a healthfulness in the moral feeling so unaffectedly expressed in it, which seems to answer
for a heart sound at the core, however passion might have scorched it. Some years after, when
he had become more confirmed in that artificial tone of banter, in which it was, unluckily,
his habit to speak of his own good feelings, as well as those of others, however capable he
might still have been of the same amiable sentiments, I question much whether the perverse
fear of being thought desirous to pass for moral would not have prevented him from thus naturally
and honestly avowing them.

The following extract from a communication addressed to a distinguished monthly work, by a
traveller who, at this period, happened to meet with Lord Byron at Constantinople, bears sufficiently
the features of authenticity to be presented, without hesitation, to my readers.

"We were interrupted in our debate by the entrance of a stranger, whom, on the first glance,
I guessed to be an Englishman, but lately arrived at Constantinople. He wore a scarlet coat,
richly embroidered with gold, in the style of an English aide-de-camp's dress uniform, with
two heavy epaulettes. His countenance announced him to be about the age of two-and-twenty.
His features were remarkably delicate, and would have given him a feminine appearance, but
for the manly expression of his fine blue eyes. On entering the inner shop, he took off his
feathered cocked-hat, and showed a head of curly auburn hair, which improved in no small degree
the uncommon beauty of his face. The impression which his whole appearance made upon my mind
was such, that it has ever since remained deeply engraven on it; and although fifteen years
have since gone by, the lapse of time has not in the slightest degree impaired the freshness
of the recollection. He was attended by a Janissary attached to the English embassy, and by
a person who professionally acted as a Cicerone to strangers. These circumstances, together
with a very visible lameness in one of his legs, convinced me at once he was Lord Byron. I
had already heard of his Lordship, and of his late arrival in the Salsette frigate, which had
come up from the Smyrna station, to fetch away Mr. Adair, our ambassador to the Porte. Lord
Byron had been previously travelling in Epirus and Asia Minor, with his friend Mr. Hobhouse,
and had become a great amateur of smoking: he was conducted to this shop for the purpose of
purchasing a few pipes. The indifferent Italian, in which language he spoke to his Cicerone,
and the latter's still more imperfect Turkish, made it difficult for the shopkeeper to understand
their wishes, and as this seemed to vex the stranger, I addressed him in English, offering
to interpret for him. When his Lordship thus discovered me to be an Englishman, he shook me
cordially by the hand, and assured me, with some warmth in his manner, that he always felt
great pleasure when he met with a countryman abroad. His purchase and my bargain being completed,
we walked out together, and rambled about the streets, in several of which I had the pleasure
of directing his attention to some of the most remarkable curiosities in Constantinople. The
peculiar circumstances under which our acquaintance took place, established between us, in
one day, a certain degree of intimacy, which two or three years' frequenting each other's company
in England would most likely not have accomplished. I frequently addressed him by his name,
but he did not think of enquiring how I came to learn it, nor of asking mine. His Lordship
had not yet laid the foundation of that literary renown which he afterwards acquired; on the
contrary, he was only known as the author of his Hours of Idleness; and the severity with which
the Edinburgh Reviewers had criticised that production was still fresh in every English reader's
recollection. I could not, therefore, be supposed to seek his acquaintance from any of those
motives of vanity which have actuated so many others since: but it was natural that, after
our accidental rencontre, and all that passed between us on that occasion, I should, on meeting
him in the course of the same week at dinner at the English ambassador's, have requested one
of the secretaries, who was intimately acquainted with him, to introduce me to him in regular
form. His Lordship testified his perfect recollection of me, but in the coldest manner, and
immediately after turned his back on me. This unceremonious proceeding, forming a striking
contrast with previous occurrences, had something so strange in it, that I was at a loss how
to account for it, and felt at the same time much disposed to entertain a less favourable opinion
of his Lordship than his apparent frankness had inspired me with at our first meeting. It was
not, therefore, without surprise, that, some days after, I saw him in the streets, coming up
to me with a smile of good nature in his countenance. He accosted me in a familiar manner,
and, offering me his hand, said,--'I am an enemy to English etiquette, especially out of England;
and I always make my own acquaintance without waiting for the formality of an introduction.
If you have nothing to do, and are disposed for another ramble, I shall be glad of your company.'
There was that irresistible attraction in his manner, of which those who have had the good
fortune to be admitted into his intimacy can alone have felt the power in his moments of good
humour; and I readily accepted his proposal. We visited again more of the most remarkable curiosities
of the capital, a description of which would here be but a repetition of what a hundred travellers
have already detailed with the utmost minuteness and accuracy; but his Lordship expressed much
disappointment at their want of interest. He praised the picturesque beauties of the town itself,
and its surrounding scenery; and seemed of opinion that nothing else was worth looking at.
He spoke of the Turks in a manner which might have given reason to suppose that he had made
a long residence among them, and closed his observations with these words:--'The Greeks will,
sooner or later, rise against them; but if they do not make haste, I hope Buonaparte will come,
and drive the useless rascals away.'"[139]

During his stay at Constantinople, the English minister, Mr. Adair, being indisposed the greater
part of the time, had but few opportunities of seeing him. He, however, pressed him, with much
hospitality, to accept a lodging at the English palace, which Lord Byron, preferring the freedom
of his homely inn, declined. At the audience granted to the ambassador, on his taking leave,
by the Sultan, the noble poet attended in the train of Mr. Adair,--having shown an anxiety
as to the place he was to hold in the procession, not a little characteristic of his jealous
pride of rank. In vain had the minister assured him that no particular station could be allotted
to him;--that the Turks, in their arrangements for the ceremonial, considered only the persons
connected with the embassy, and neither attended to, nor acknowledged, the precedence which
our forms assign to nobility. Seeing the young peer still unconvinced by these representations,
Mr. Adair was, at length, obliged to refer him to an authority, considered infallible on such
points of etiquette, the old Austrian Internuncio;--on consulting whom, and finding his opinions
agree fully with those of the English minister, Lord Byron declared himself perfectly satisfied.

On the 14th of July his fellow-traveller and himself took their departure from Constantinople
on board the Salsette frigate,--Mr. Hobhouse with the intention of accompanying the ambassador
to England, and Lord Byron with the resolution of visiting his beloved Greece again. To Mr.
Adair he appeared, at this time, (and I find that Mr. Bruce, who met him afterwards at Athens,
conceived the same impression of him,) to be labouring under great dejection of spirits. One
circumstance related to me, as having occurred in the course of the passage, is not a little
striking. Perceiving, as he walked the deck, a small yataghan, or Turkish dagger, on one of
the benches, he took it up, unsheathed it, and, having stood for a few moments contemplating
the blade, was heard to say, in an under voice, "I should like to know how a person feels after
committing a murder!" In this startling speech we may detect, I think, the germ of his future
Giaours and Laras. This intense wish to explore the dark workings of the passions was what,
with the aid of imagination, at length generated the power; and that faculty which entitled
him afterwards to be so truly styled "the searcher of dark bosoms," may be traced to, perhaps,
its earliest stirrings in the sort of feeling that produced these words.

On their approaching the island of Zea, he expressed a wish to be put on shore. Accordingly,
having taken leave of his companions, he was landed upon this small island, with two Albanians,
a Tartar, and one English servant; and in one of his manuscripts he has himself described the
proud, solitary feeling with which he stood to see the ship sail swiftly away--leaving him
there, in a land of strangers alone.

A few days after, he addressed the following letters to Mrs. Byron from Athens.

LETTER 46.

TO MRS. BYRON. We shall go together for that purpose.

A day or two after the date of this, he left Athens in company with the Marquis of Sligo. Having
travelled together as far as Corinth, they from thence branched off in different directions,--Lord
Sligo to pay a visit to the capital of the Morea, and Lord Byron to proceed to Patras, where
he had some business, as will be seen by the following letter, with the English consul, Mr.
Strané:--

LETTER 47.

TO MRS. BYRON.

On his return from this tour to Patras, he was seized with a fit of illness, the particulars
of which are mentioned in the following letter to Mr. Hodgson; and they are, in many respects,
so similar to those of the last fatal malady, with which, fourteen years afterwards, he was
attacked, in nearly the same spot, that, livelily as the account is written, it is difficult
to read it without melancholy:--

LETTER 48. I have seen some old English papers up to the 15th of May. In this anecdote,--which,
slight as it is, the relater remembered, as a proof of the poet's consciousness of his own
beauty,--may be traced also the habitual reference of his imagination to that sex, which, however
he affected to despise it, influenced, more or less, the flow and colour of all his thoughts.
His look and manner, in relating this frightful circumstance, can be conceived only by those
who have ever seen him in a similar state of excitement.

The little value he had for those relics of ancient art, in pursuit of which he saw all his
classic fellow-travellers so ardent, was, like every thing he ever thought or felt, unreservedly
avowed by him.

Among the persons, besides Lord Sligo, whom he saw most of at this time, were Lady Hester Stanhope
and Mr. Bruce. One of the first objects, indeed, that met the eyes of these two distinguished
travellers, on their approaching the coast of Attica, was Lord Byron, disporting in his favourite
element under the rocks of Cape Colonna. They were afterwards made acquainted with each other
by Lord Sligo; and it was in the course, I believe, of their first interview, at his table,
that Lady Hester, with that lively eloquence for which she is so remarkable, took the poet
briskly to task for the depreciating opinion, which, as she understood, he entertained of all
female intellect. Being but little inclined, were he even able, to sustain such a heresy, against
one who was in her own person such an irresistible refutation of it, Lord Byron had no other
refuge from the fair orator's arguments than in assent and silence; and this well-bred deference
being, in a sensible woman's eyes, equivalent to concession, they became, from thenceforward,
most cordial friends. In recalling some recollections of this period in his "Memoranda," after
relating the circumstance of his being caught bathing by an English party at Sunium, he added,
"This was the beginning of the most delightful acquaintance which I formed in Greece." He then
went on to assure Mr. Bruce, if ever those pages should meet his eyes, that the days they had
passed together at Athens were remembered by him with pleasure.

During this period of his stay in Greece, we find him forming one of those extraordinary friendships,--if
attachment to persons so inferior to himself can be called by that name,--of which I have already
mentioned two or three instances in his younger days, and in which the pride of being a protector,
and the pleasure of exciting gratitude, seem to have constituted to his mind the chief, pervading
charm. The person, whom he now adopted in this manner, and from similar feelings to those which
had inspired his early attachments to the cottage-boy near Newstead, and the young chorister
at Cambridge, was a Greek youth, named Nicolo Giraud, the son, I believe, of a widow lady,
in whose house the artist Lusieri lodged. In this young man he appears to have taken the most
lively, and even brotherly, interest;--so much so, as not only to have presented to him, on
their parting, at Malta, a considerable sum of money, but to have subsequently designed for
him, as the reader will learn, a still more munificent, as well as permanent, provision.

Though he occasionally made excursions through Attica and the Morea, his head-quarters were
fixed at Athens, where he had taken lodgings in a Franciscan convent, and, in the intervals
of his tours, employed himself in collecting materials for those notices on the state of modern
Greece which he has appended to the second Canto of Childe Harold. In this retreat, also, as
if in utter defiance of the "genius loci," he wrote his "Hints from Horace,"--a Satire which,
impregnated as it is with London life from beginning to end, bears the date, "Athens, Capuchin
Convent, March 12. 1811."

From the few remaining letters addressed to his mother, I shall content myself with selecting
the two following:--

LETTER 49.

TO MRS. BYRON.

LETTER 50.

TO MRS. BYRON. The voyage to Egypt, which he appears from this letter to have contemplated,
was, probably for want of the expected remittances, relinquished; and, on the 3d of June, he
set sail from Malta, in the Volage frigate, for England, having, during his short stay at Malta,
suffered a severe attack of the tertian fever. The feelings with which he returned home may
be collected from the following melancholy letters.

LETTER 51.

"I am, here and there, yours," &c.

LETTER 52.

TO MRS. BYRON.

LETTER 53.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Published in two volumes, 4to.]

[Footnote 2: It is almost unnecessary to apprise the reader that the paragraph at the bottom
of p. 222. vol. iv. was written before the appearance of this extraordinary paper.]

[Footnote 3: From p. 4. to 11. vol. v. inclusive.]

[Footnote 4: In p. 232. vol. iv. however, the reader will find it alluded to, and in terms
such as conduct so disinterested deserves.]

[Footnote 5: June 12, 1828.]

[Footnote 6: "In the park of Horseley," says Thoroton, "there was a castle, some of the ruins
whereof are yet visible, called Horestan Castle, which was the chief mansion of his (Ralph
de Burun's) successors."]

[Footnote 7: The priory of Newstead had been founded and dedicated to God and the Virgin, by
Henry II.; and its monks, who were canons regular of the order of St. Augustine, appear to
have been peculiarly the objects of royal favour, no less in spiritual than in temporal concerns.
During the lifetime of the fifth Lord Byron, there was found in the lake at Newstead,--where
it is supposed to have been thrown for concealment by the monks,--a large brass eagle, in the
body of which, on its being sent to be cleaned, was discovered a secret aperture, concealing
within it a number of old legal papers connected with the rights and privileges of the foundation.
At the sale of the old lord's effects in 1776-7, this eagle, together with three candelabra,
found at the same time, was purchased by a watch-maker of Nottingham (by whom the concealed
manuscripts were discovered), and having from his hands passed into those of Sir Richard Kaye,
a prebendary of Southwell, forms at present a very remarkable ornament of the cathedral of
that place. A curious document, said to have been among those found in the eagle, is now in
the possession of Colonel Wildman, containing a grant of full pardon from Henry V. of every
possible crime (and there is a tolerably long catalogue enumerated) which the monks might have
committed previous to the 8th of December preceding:--"Murdris, per ipsos post decimum nonum
diem Novembris, ultimo præteritum perpetratis, si quæ fuerint, exceptis."]

[Footnote 8: The Earl of Shrewsbury.]

[Footnote 9: Afterwards Admiral.]

[Footnote 10: The following particulars respecting the amount of Mrs. Byron's fortune before
marriage, and its rapid disappearance afterwards, are, I have every reason to think, from the
authentic source to which I am indebted for them, strictly correct:--

"At the time of the marriage, Miss Gordon was possessed of about 3000 l. in money, two shares
of the Aberdeen Banking Company, the estates of Gight and Monkshill, and the superiority of
two salmon fishings on Dee. Soon after the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Byron Gordon in Scotland,
it appeared that Mr. Byron had involved himself very deeply in debt, and his creditors commenced
legal proceedings for the recovery of their money. The cash in hand was soon paid away,--the
bank shares were disposed of at 600 l. (now worth 5000 l.)--timber on the estate was cut down
and sold to the amount of 1500l.--the farm of Monkshill and superiority of the fishings, affording
a freehold qualification, were disposed of at 480l.; and, in addition to these sales, within
a year after the marriage, 8000l. was borrowed upon a mortgage on the estate, granted by Mrs.
Byron Gordon to the person who lent the money.

"In March, 1786, a contract of marriage in the Scotch form was drawn up and signed by the parties.
In the course of the summer of that year, Mr. and Mrs. Byron left Gight, and never returned
to it; the estate being, in the following year, sold to Lord Haddo for the sum of 17,850l.,
the whole of which was applied to the payment of Mr. Byron's debts, with the exception of 1122l.,
which remained as a burden on the estate, (the interest to be applied to paying a jointure
of 55l. 11s. 1d. to Mrs. Byron's grandmother, the principal reverting, at her death, to Mrs.
Byron,) and 3000l. vested in trustees for Mrs. Byron's separate use, which was lent to Mr.
Carsewell of Ratharllet, in Fifeshire."

"A strange occurrence," says another of my informants, "took place previous to the sale of
the lands. All the doves left the house of Gight and came to Lord Haddo's, and so did a number
of herons, which had built their nests for many years in a wood on the banks of a large loch,
called the Hagberry Pot. When this was told to Lord Haddo, he pertinently replied, 'Let the
birds come, and do them no harm, for the land will soon follow;' which it actually did."]

[Footnote 11: It appears that she several times changed her residence during her stay at Aberdeen,
as there are two other houses pointed out, where she lodged for some time; one situated in
Virginia Street, and the other, the house of a Mr. Leslie, I think, in Broad Street.]

[Footnote 12: By her advances of money to Mr. Byron (says an authority I have already cited)
on the two occasions when he visited Aberdeen, as well as by the expenses incurred in furnishing
the floor occupied by her, after his death, in Broad Street, she got in debt to the amount
of 300 l., by paying the interest on which her income was reduced to 135 l. On this, however,
she contrived to live without increasing her debt; and on the death of her grandmother, when
she received the 122 l. set apart for that lady's annuity, discharged the whole.]

[Footnote 13: In Long Acre. The present master of this school is Mr. David Grant, the ingenious
editor of a collection of "Battles and War Pieces," and of a work of much utility, entitled
"Class Book of Modern Poetry."]

[Footnote 14: The old porter, too, at the College, "minds weel" the little boy, with the red
jacket and nankeen trowsers, whom he has so often turned out of the College court-yard.]

[Footnote 15: "He was," says one of my informants, "a good hand at marbles, and could drive
one farther than most boys. He also excelled at 'Bases,' a game which requires considerable
swiftness of foot."]

[Footnote 16: On examining the quarterly lists kept at the grammar-school of Aberdeen, in which
the names of the boys are set down according to the station each holds in his class, it appears
that in April of the year 1794, the name of Byron, then in the second class, stands twenty-third
in a list of thirty-eight boys. In the April of 1798, however, he had risen to be fifth in
the fourth class, consisting of twenty-seven boys, and had got ahead of several of his contemporaries,
who had previously always stood before him.]

[Footnote 17: Notwithstanding the lively recollections expressed in this poem, it is pretty
certain, from the testimony of his nurse, that he never was at the mountain itself, which stood
some miles distant from his residence, more than twice.]

[Footnote 18: The Island.]

[Footnote 19: Dante, we know, was but nine years old when, at a May-day festival, he saw and
fell in love with Beatrice; and Alfieri, who was himself a precocious lover, considers such
early sensibility to be an unerring sign of a soul formed for the fine arts:--"Effetti," he
says, in describing the feelings of his own first love, "che poche persone intendono, e pochissime
provano: ma a quei soli pochissimi è concesso l' uscir dalla folla volgare in tutte le umane
arti." Canova used to say, that he perfectly well remembered having been in love when but five
years old.]

[Footnote 20: To this Lord Byron used to add, on the authority of old servants of the family,
that on the day of their patron's death, these crickets all left the house simultaneously,
and in such numbers, that it was impossible to cross the hall without treading on them.]

[Footnote 21: The correct reading of this legend is, I understand, as follows:--

    "Brig o' Balgounie, wight (strong) is thy wa';
    Wi' a wife's ae son on a mare's ae foal,
    Down shall thou fa'."
]

[Footnote 22: In a letter addressed lately by Mr. Sheldrake to the editor of a Medical Journal,
it is stated that the person of the same name who attended Lord Byron at Dulwich owed the honour
of being called in to a mistake, and effected nothing towards the remedy of the limb. The writer
of the letter adds that he was himself consulted by Lord Byron four or five years afterwards,
and though unable to undertake the cure of the defect, from the unwillingness of his noble
patient to submit to restraint or confinement, was successful in constructing a sort of shoe
for the foot, which in some degree alleviated the inconvenience under which he laboured.]

[Footnote 23: "Quoique," says Alfieri, speaking of his school-days, "je fusse le plus petit
de tons les grands qui se trouvaient au second appartement où j'étais descendu, e'était précisement
mon inferiorité de taille, d'age, et de force, qui me donnait plus de courage, et m'engageait
à me distinguer."]

[Footnote 24: The following is Lord Byron's version of this touching narrative; and it will
be felt, I think, by every reader, that this is one of the instances in which poetry must be
content to yield the palm to prose. There is a pathos in the last sentences of the seaman's
recital, which the artifices of metre and rhyme were sure to disturb, and which, indeed, no
verses, however beautiful, could half so naturally and powerfully express:--

    "There were two fathers in this ghastly crew,
      And with them their two sons, of whom the one
    Was more robust and hardy to the view,
      But he died early; and when he was gone,
    His nearest messmate told his sire, who threw
      One glance on him, and said, 'Heaven's will be done,
    I can do nothing,' and he saw him thrown
    Into the deep without a tear or groan.

    "The other father had a weaklier child,
      Of a soft cheek, and aspect delicate;
    But the boy bore up long, and with a mild
      And patient spirit held aloof his fate;
    Little be said, and now and then he smiled,
      As if to win a part from off the weight
    He saw increasing on his father's heart,
    With the deep, deadly thought, that they must part.

    "And o'er him bent his sire, and never raised
      His eyes from off his face, but wiped the foam
    From his pale lips, and ever on him gazed,
      And when the wish'd-for shower at length was come,
    And the boy's eyes, which the dull film half glazed,
      Brighten'd, and for a moment seem'd to roam,
    He squeezed from out a rag some drops of rain
    Into his dying child's mouth--but in vain.

    "The boy expired--the father held the clay,
      And look'd upon it long, and when at last
    Death left no doubt, and the dead burden lay
      Stiff on his heart, and pulse and hope were past,
    He watch'd it wistfully, until away
     'Twas borne by the rude wave wherein 'twas cast:
    Then he himself sunk down all dumb and shivering,
    And gave no sign of life, save his limbs quivering."

DON JUAN, CANTO II.

In the collection of "Shipwrecks and Disasters at Sea," to which Lord Byron so skilfully had
recourse for the technical knowledge and facts out of which he has composed his own powerful
description, the reader will find the account of the loss of the Juno here referred to.]

[Footnote 25: This elegy is in his first (unpublished) volume.]

[Footnote 26: See page 25.]

[Footnote 27: For the display of his declamatory powers, on the speech-days, he selected always
the most vehement passages,--such as the speech of Zanga over the body of Alonzo, and Lear's
address to the storm. On one of these public occasions, when it was arranged that he should
take the part of Drances, and young Peel that of Turnus, Lord Byron suddenly changed his mind,
and preferred the speech of Latinus,--fearing, it was supposed, some ridicule from the inappropriate
taunt of Turnus, "Ventosâ in linguâ, pedibusque fugacibus istis."]

[Footnote 28: His letters to Mr. Sinclair, in return, are unluckily lost,--one of them, as
this gentleman tells me, having been highly characteristic of the jealous sensitiveness of
his noble schoolfellow, being written under the impression of some ideal slight, and beginning,
angrily, "Sir."]

[Footnote 29: On a leaf of one of his note-books, dated 1808, I find the following passage
from Marmontel, which no doubt struck him as applicable to the enthusiasm of his own youthful
friendships:--"L'amitié, qui dans le monde est à peine un sentiment, est une passion dans les
cloîtres."--Contes Moraux.]

[Footnote 30: Mr. D'Israeli, in his ingenious work "On the Literary Character," has given it
as his opinion, that a disinclination to athletic sports and exercises will be, in general,
found among the peculiarities which mark a youthful genius. In support of this notion he quotes
Beattie, who thus describes his ideal minstrel:--

    "Concourse, and noise, and toil, he ever fled,
      Nor cared to mingle in the clamorous fray
    Of squabbling imps, but to the forest sped."

His highest authority, however, is Milton, who says of himself,

    "When I was yet a child, no childish play
    To me was pleasing."

Such general rules, however, are as little applicable to the dispositions of men of genius
as to their powers. If, in the instances which Mr. D'Israeli adduces an indisposition to bodily
exertion was manifested, as many others may be cited in which the directly opposite propensity
was remarkable. In war, the most turbulent of exercises, Æschylus, Dante, Camoens, and a long
list of other poets, distinguished themselves; and, though it may be granted that Horace was
a bad rider, and Virgil no tennis-player, yet, on the other hand, Dante was, we know, a falconer
as well as swordsman; Tasso, expert both as swordsman and dancer; Alfieri, a great rider; Klopstock,
a skaiter; Cowper, famous, in his youth, at cricket and foot-ball; and Lord Byron, pre-eminent
in all sorts of exercises.]

[Footnote 31: "At eight or nine years of age the boy goes to school. From that moment he becomes
a stranger in his father's house. The course of parental kindness is interrupted. The smiles
of his mother, those tender admonitions, and the solicitous care of both his parents, are no
longer before his eyes--year after year he feels himself more detached from them, till at last
he is so effectually weaned from the connection, as to find himself happier anywhere than in
their company."--Cowper, Letters.]

[Footnote 32: Even previously to any of these school friendships, he had formed the same sort
of romantic attachment to a boy of his own age, the son of one of his tenants at Newstead;
and there are two or three of his most juvenile poems, in which he dwells no less upon the
inequality than the warmth of this friendship. Thus:--

    "Let Folly smile, to view the names
      Of thee and me in friendship twined;
    Yet Virtue will have greater claims
      To love, than rank with Vice combined.

    "And though unequal is thy fate,
      Since title deck'd my higher birth,
    Yet envy not this gaudy state,
      Thine is the pride of modest worth.

    "Our souls at least congenial meet,
      Nor can thy lot my rank disgrace;
    Our intercourse is not less sweet
      Since worth of rank supplies the place.

"November, 1802."]

[Footnote 33: There are, in other letters of the same writer, some curious proofs of the passionate
and jealous sensibility of Byron. From one of them, for instance, we collect that he had taken
offence at his young friend's addressing him "my dear Byron," instead of "my dearest;" and
from another, that his jealousy had been awakened by some expressions of regret which his correspondent
had expressed at the departure of Lord John Russell for Spain:--

"You tell me," says the young letter-writer, "that you never knew me in such an agitation as
I was when I wrote my last letter; and do you not think I had reason to be so? I received a
letter from you on Saturday, telling me you were going abroad for six years in March, and on
Sunday John Russell set off for Spain. Was not that sufficient to make me rather melancholy?
But how can you possibly imagine that I was more agitated on John Russell's account, who is
gone for a few months, and from whom I shall hear constantly, than at your going for six years
to travel over most part of the world, when I shall hardly ever hear from you, and perhaps
may never see you again?

"It has very much hurt me your telling me that you might be excused if you felt rather jealous
at my expressing more sorrow for the departure of the friend who was with me, than of that
one who was absent. It is quite impossible you can think I am more sorry for John's absence
than I shall be for yours;--I shall therefore finish the subject."]

[Footnote 34: To this tomb he thus refers in the "Childish Recollections," as printed in his
first unpublished volume:--

    "Oft when, oppress'd with sad, foreboding gloom,
    I sat reclined upon our favourite tomb."
]

[Footnote 35: I find this circumstance, of his having occasionally slept at the Hut, though
asserted by one of the old servants, much doubted by others.]

[Footnote 36: It may possibly have been the recollection of these pictures that suggested to
him the following lines in the Siege of Corinth:--

    "Like the figures on arras that gloomily glare,
    Stirr'd by the breath of the wintry air,
    So seen by the dying lamp's fitful light,
    Lifeless, but life-like and awful to sight;
    As they seem, through the dimness, about to come down
    From the shadowy wall where their images frown."
]

[Footnote 37: Among the unpublished verses of his in my possession, I find the following fragment,
written not long after this period:--

    "Hills of Annesley, bleak and barren,
      Where my thoughtless childhood stray'd,
    How the northern tempests, warring,
      Howl above thy tufted shade!

    "Now no more, the hours beguiling,
      Former favourite haunts I see;
    Now no more my Mary smiling,
      Makes ye seem a heaven to me."
]

[Footnote 38: The lady's husband, for some time, took her family name.]

[Footnote 39: These stanzas, I have since found, are not Lord Byron's, but the production of
Lady Tuite, and are contained in a volume published by her Ladyship in the year 1795.--(Second
edition.)]

[Footnote 40: Gibbon, in speaking of public schools, says--"The mimic scene of a rebellion
has displayed, in their true colours, the ministers and patriots of the rising generation."
Such prognostics, however, are not always to be relied on;--the mild, peaceful Addison was,
when at school, the successful leader of a barring-out.]

[Footnote 41: This anecdote, which I have given on the testimony of one of Lord Byron's schoolfellows,
Doctor Butler himself assures me has but very little foundation in fact.--(Second Edition.)]

[Footnote 42: "It is deplorable to consider the loss which children make of their time at most
schools, employing, or rather casting away, six or seven years in the learning of words only,
and that very imperfectly."--Cowley, Essays.

"Would not a Chinese, who took notice of our way of breeding, be apt to imagine that all our
young gentlemen were designed to be teachers and professors of the dead languages of foreign
countries, and not to be men of business in their own?"--Locke on Education.]

[Footnote 43: "A finished scholar may emerge from the head of Westminster or Eton in total
ignorance of the business and conversation of English gentlemen in the latter end of the eighteenth
century."--Gibbon.]

[Footnote 44: "Byron, Harrow on the Hill, Middlesex, Alumnus Scholæ; Lyonensis primus in anno
Domini 1801, Ellison Duce."

"Monitors, 1801.--Ellison, Royston, Hunxman, Rashleigh, Rokeby, Leigh."]

[Footnote 45: "Drury's Pupils, 1804.--Byron, Drury, Sinclair, Hoare, Bolder, Annesley, Calvert,
Strong, Acland, Gordon, Drummond."]

[Footnote 46: During one of the Harrow vacations, he passed some time in the house of the Abbé
de Roufigny, in Took's-court, for the purpose of studying the French language; but he was,
according to the Abbé's account, very little given to study, and spent most of his time in
boxing, fencing, &c. to the no small disturbance of the reverend teacher and his establishment.]

[Footnote 47: Between superior and inferior, "whose fortunes (as he expresses it) comprehend
the one and the other."]

[Footnote 48: A gentleman who has since honourably distinguished himself by his philanthropic
plans and suggestions for that most important object, the amelioration of the condition of
the poor.]

[Footnote 49: In a suit undertaken for the recovery of the Rochdale property.]

[Footnote 50: This precious pencilling is still, of course, preserved.]

[Footnote 51: The verses "To a beautiful Quaker," in his first volume, were written at Harrowgate.]

[Footnote 52: A horse of Lord Byron's:--the other horse that he had with him at this time was
called Sultan.]

[Footnote 53: The favourite dog, on which Lord Byron afterwards wrote the well-known epitaph.]

[Footnote 54: Lord Byron and Dr. Pigot continued to be correspondents for some time, but, after
their parting this autumn, they never met again.]

[Footnote 55: Of this edition, which was in quarto, and consisted but of a few sheets, there
are but two, or, at the utmost, three copies in existence.]

[Footnote 56: His valet, Frank.]

[Footnote 57: Of this "Mary," who is not to be confounded either with the heiress of Annesley,
or "Mary" of Aberdeen, all I can record is, that she was of an humble, if not equivocal, station
in life,--that she had long, light golden hair, of which he used to show a lock, as well as
her picture, among his friends; and that the verses in his "Hours of Idleness," entitled "To
Mary, on receiving her Picture," were addressed to her.]

[Footnote 58: Here the imperfect sheet ends.]

[Footnote 59: Though always fond of music, he had very little skill in the performance of it.
"It is very odd," he said, one day, to this lady,--"I sing much better to your playing than
to any one else's."--"That is," she answered, "because I play to your singing."--In which few
words, by the way, the whole secret of a skilful accompanier lies.]

[Footnote 60: Cricketing, too, was one of his most favourite sports; and it was wonderful,
considering his lameness, with what speed he could run. "Lord Byron (says Miss ----, in a letter,
to her brother, from Southwell) is just gone past the window with his bat on his shoulder to
cricket, which he is as fond of as ever."]

[Footnote 61: In one of Miss ----'s letters, the following notice of these canine feuds occurs:--"Boatswain
has had another battle with Tippoo at the House of Correction, and came off conqueror. It appears,
too, that he was himself aware of the advantages which this free course of study brought with
it:--"Mr. Pope," says Spence, "thought himself the better, in some respects, for not having
had a regular education. He (as he observed in particular) read originally for the sense, whereas
we are taught, for so many years, to read only for words."]

[Footnote 64: Before Chatterton was twelve years old, he wrote a catalogue, in the same manner
as Lord Byron, of the books he had already read, to the number of seventy. Of these the chief
subjects were history and divinity.]

[Footnote 65: The perfect purity with which the Greeks wrote their own language, was, with
justice, perhaps, attributed by themselves to their entire abstinence from the study of any
other. "If they became learned," says Ferguson, "it was only by studying what they themselves
had produced."]

[Footnote 66: The only circumstance I know, that bears even remotely on the subject of this
poem, is the following. About a year or two before the date affixed to it, he wrote to his
mother, from Harrow (as I have been told by a person to whom Mrs. Byron herself communicated
the circumstance), to say, that he had lately had a good deal of uneasiness on account of a
young woman, whom he knew to have been a favourite of his late friend, Curzon, and who, finding
herself, after his death, in a state of progress towards maternity, had declared Lord Byron
was the father of her child. This, he positively assured his mother, was not the case; but,
believing, as he did firmly, that the child belonged to Curzon, it was his wish that it should
be brought up with all possible care, and he, therefore, entreated that his mother would have
the kindness to take charge of it. Though such a request might well (as my informant expresses
it) have discomposed a temper more mild than Mrs. Byron's, she notwithstanding answered her
son in the kindest terms, saying that she would willingly receive the child as soon as it was
born, and bring it up in whatever manner he desired. Happily, however, the infant died almost
immediately, and was thus spared the being a tax on the good nature of any body.]

[Footnote 67: In this practice of dating his juvenile poems he followed the example of Milton,
who (says Johnson), "by affixing the dates to his first compositions, a boast of which the
learned Politian had given him an example, seems to commend the earliness of his own compositions
to the notice of posterity."

The following trifle, written also by him in 1807, has never, as far as I know, appeared in
print:--

     "EPITAPH ON JOHN ADAMS, OF SOUTHWELL, A CARRIER,

     "WHO DIED OF DRUNKENNESS.

    "John Adams lies here, of the parish of Southwell,
    A Carrier, who carried his can to his mouth well;
    He carried so much, and he carried so fast,
    He could carry no more--so was carried at last;
    For, the liquor he drank being too much for one,
    He could not carry off,--so he 's now carri-on.

    "B----, Sept. 1807."
]

[Footnote 68: Annesley is, of course, not forgotten among the number:--

    "And shall I here forget the scene,
       Still nearest to my breast?
     Rocks rise and rivers roll between
       The rural spot which passion blest;
     Yet, Mary, all thy beauties seem
     Fresh as in Love's bewitching dream," &c. &c.
]

[Footnote 69: It appears from a passage in one of Miss ----'s letters to her brother, that
Lord Byron sent, through this gentleman, a copy of his poems to Mr. Mackenzie, the author of
the Man of Feeling:--"I am glad you mentioned Mr. Mackenzie's having got a copy of Lord B.'s
poems, and what he thought of them--Lord B. was so much pleased!"

In another letter, the fair writer says,--"Lord Byron desired me to tell you that the reason
you did not hear from him was because his publication was not so forward as he had flattered
himself it would have been. I told him, 'he was no more to be depended on than a woman,' which
instantly brought the softness of that sex into his countenance, for he blushed exceedingly."]

[Footnote 70: He was, indeed, a thorough boy, at this period, in every respect:--"Next Monday"
(says Miss ----) "is our great fair. In a letter written not long since to his servant, Fletcher,
by a lady who had been intimate with him, in his young days, at Southwell, there are the following
words:--"Your poor, good master always called me 'Old Piety,' when I preached to him. When
he paid me his last visit, he said, 'Well, good friend, I shall never be so happy again as
I was in old Southwell.'" His real opinion of the advantages of this town, as a place of residence,
will be seen in a subsequent letter, where he most strenuously recommends it, in that point
of view, to Mr. Dallas.]

[Footnote 73: It may be as well to mention here the sequel of this enthusiastic attachment.
Unluckily, this boyish desire of being thought worse than he really was, remained with Lord
Byron, as did some other feelings and foibles of his boyhood, long after the period when, with
others, they are past and forgotten; and his mind, indeed, was but beginning to outgrow them,
when he was snatched away.]

[Footnote 78: The poem afterwards enlarged and published under the title of "English Bards
and Scotch Reviewers." It appears from this that the ground-work of that satire had been laid
some time before the appearance of the article in the Edinburgh Review.]

[Footnote 79: Sept. 1807. This Review, in pronouncing upon the young author's future career,
showed itself somewhat more "prophet-like" than the great oracle of the North. In collecting
our force to overcome the opposition, we invigorate the soul, and give it an elevation with
which otherwise it would never have been acquainted."--Hume, Treatise of Human Nature.]

[Footnote 91: "The colour of our whole life is generally such as the three or four first years
in which we are our own masters make it."--Cowper.]

[Footnote 92: "I refer to my old friend and corporeal pastor and master, John Jackson, Esq.,
Professor of Pugilism, who I trust still retains the strength and symmetry of his model of
a form, together with his good humour and athletic, as well as mental, accomplishments."--Note
on Don Juan, Canto II.]

[Footnote 93: Thus addressed always by Lord Byron, but without any right to the distinction.]

[Footnote 94: The Journal entitled by himself "Detached Thoughts."]

[Footnote 95: Few philosophers, however, have been so indulgent to the pride of birth as Rousseau.--"S'il
est un orgueil pardonnable (he says) après celui qui se tire du mérite personnel, c'est celui
qui se tire de la naissance."--Confess.]

[Footnote 96: This gentleman, who took orders in the year 1814, is the author of a spirited
translation of Juvenal, and of other works of distinguished merit. He was long in correspondence
with Lord Byron, and to him I am indebted for some interesting letters of his noble friend,
which will be given in the course of the following pages.]

[Footnote 97: He had also, at one time, as appears from an anecdote preserved by Spence, some
thoughts of burying this dog in his garden, and placing a monument over him, with the inscription,
"Oh, rare Bounce!"

In speaking of the members of Rousseau's domestic establishment, Hume says, "She (Therése)
governs him as absolutely as a nurse does a child. In her absence, his dog has acquired that
ascendant. His affection for that creature is beyond all expression or conception."--Private
Correspondence. See an instance which he gives of this dog's influence over the philosopher,
p. 143.

In Burns's elegy on the death of his favourite Mailie, we find the friendship even of a sheep
set on a level with that of man:--

    "Wi' kindly bleat, when she did spy him,
                      She ran wi' speed:
    A friend mair faithful ne'er came nigh him,
                      Than Mailie dead."

In speaking of the favourite dogs of great poets, we must not forget Cowper's little spaniel
"Beau;" nor will posterity fail to add to the list the name of Sir Walter Scott's "Maida."]

[Footnote 98: In the epitaph, as first printed in his friend's Miscellany, this line runs thus:--

    "I knew but one unchanged--and here he lies."
]

[Footnote 99: We are told that Wieland used to have his works printed thus for the purpose
of correction, and said that he found great advantage in it.

He is not, however, the only satirist who has been thus capricious and changeable in his judgments.
The variations of this nature in Pope's Dunciad are well known; and the Abbé Cotin, it is said,
owed the "painful pre-eminence" of his station in Boileau's Satires to the unlucky convenience
of his name as a rhyme. 1808.]

[Footnote 108: Entitled, in his original manuscript, "To Mrs. ----, on being asked my reason
for quitting England in the spring." The date subjoined is Dec. 2. 1808.]

[Footnote 109: In his first copy, "Thus, Mary."]

[Footnote 110: Thus corrected by himself in a copy of the Miscellany now in my possession;--the
two last lines being, originally, as follows:--

    "Though wheresoe'er my bark may run,
    I love but thee, I love but one."
]

[Footnote 111: I give the words as Johnson has reported them;--in Swift's own letter they are,
if I recollect right, rather different.]

[Footnote 112: There is, at least, one striking point of similarity between their characters
in the disposition which Johnson has thus attributed to Swift:--"The suspicions of Swift's
irreligion," he says, "proceeded, in a great measure, from his dread of hypocrisy; instead
of wishing to seem better, he delighted in seeming worse than he was."]

[Footnote 113: Another use to which he appropriated one of the skulls found in digging at Newstead
was the having it mounted in silver, and converted into a drinking-cup. This whim has been
commemorated in some well-known verses of his own; and the cup itself, which, apart from any
revolting ideas it may excite, forms by no means an inelegant object to the eye, is, with many
other interesting relics of Lord Byron, in the possession of the present proprietor of Newstead
Abbey, Colonel Wildman.]

[Footnote 114: Rousseau appears to have been conscious of a similar sort of change in his own
nature:--"They have laboured without intermission," he says, in a letter to Madame de Boufflers,
"to give to my heart, and, perhaps, at the same time to my genius, a spring and stimulus of
action, which they have not inherited from nature. I was born weak,--ill treatment has made
me strong."--Hume's Private Correspondence.]

[Footnote 115: "It was bitterness that they mistook for frolic."--Johnson's account of himself
at the university, in Boswell.]

[Footnote 116: The poet Cowper, it is well known, produced that masterpiece of humour, John
Gilpin, during one of his fits of morbid dejection; and he himself says, "Strange as it may
seem, the most ludicrous lines I ever wrote have been written in the saddest mood, and but
for that saddest mood, perhaps, had never been written at all."]

[Footnote 117: The reconciliation which took place between him and Dr. Butler, before his departure,
is one of those instances of placability and pliableness with which his life abounded. We have
seen, too, from the manner in which he mentions the circumstance in one of his note-books,
that the reconcilement was of that generously retrospective kind, in which not only the feeling
of hostility is renounced in future, but a strong regret expressed that it had been ever entertained.

Not content with this private atonement to Dr. Butler, it was his intention, had he published
another edition of the Hours of Idleness, to substitute for the offensive verses against that
gentleman, a frank avowal of the wrong he had been guilty of in giving vent to them. This fact,
so creditable to the candour of his nature, I learn from a loose sheet in his handwriting,
containing the following corrections. In place of the passage beginning "Or if my Muse a pedant's
portrait drew," he meant to insert--

    "If once my Muse a harsher portrait drew,
    Warm with her wrongs, and deem'd the likeness true,
    By cooler judgment taught, her fault she owns,--
    With noble minds a fault, confess'd, atones."

And to the passage immediately succeeding his warm praise of Dr. Drury--"Pomposus fills his
magisterial chair," it was his intention to give the following turn:--

    "Another fills his magisterial chair;
    Reluctant Ida owns a stranger's care;
    Oh may like honours crown his future name,--
    If such his virtues, such shall be his fame."
]

[Footnote 118: Lord Byron used sometimes to mention a strange story, which the commander of
the packet, Captain Kidd, related to him on the passage. This officer stated that, being asleep
one night in his berth, he was awakened by the pressure of something heavy on his limbs, and,
there being a faint light in the room, could see, as he thought, distinctly, the figure of
his brother, who was at that time in the naval service in the East Indies, dressed in his uniform,
and stretched across the bed. Concluding it to be an illusion of the senses, he shut his eyes
and made an effort to sleep. But still the same pressure continued, and still, as often as
he ventured to take another look, he saw the figure lying across him in the same position.
To add to the wonder, on putting his hand forth to touch this form, he found the uniform, in
which it appeared to be dressed, dripping wet. On the entrance of one of his brother officers,
to whom he called out in alarm, the apparition vanished; but in a few months after he received
the startling intelligence that on that night his brother had been drowned in the Indian seas.
Soldiers, with their arms piled against the wall near them, were assembled in different parts
of the square: some of them pacing slowly backwards and forwards, and others sitting on the
ground in groups. Several horses, completely caparisoned, were leading about, whilst others
were neighing under the hands of the grooms. In the part farthest from the dwelling, preparations
were making for the feast of the night; and several kids and sheep were being dressed by cooks
who were themselves half armed. Every thing wore a most martial look, though not exactly in
the style of the head-quarters of a Christian general; for many of the soldiers were in the
most common dress, without shoes, and having more wildness in their air and manner than the
Albanians we had before seen."

On comparing this description, which is itself sufficiently striking, with those which Lord
Byron has given of the same scene, both in the letter to his mother, and in the second Canto
of Childe Harold, we gain some insight into the process by which imagination elevates, without
falsifying, reality, and facts become brightened and refined into poetry. Ascending from the
representation drawn faithfully on the spot by the traveller, to the more fanciful arrangement
of the same materials in the letter of the poet, we at length, by one step more, arrive at
that consummate, idealised picture, the result of both memory and invention combined, which
in the following splendid stanzas is presented to us:--

      Amidst no common pomp the despot sate,
      While busy preparations shook the court,
      Slaves, eunuchs, soldiers, guests, and santons wait;
      Within, a palace, and without, a fort:
    Here men of every clime appear to make resort.

      "Richly caparison'd, a ready row
      Of armed horse, and many a warlike store,
      Circled the wide-extending court below;
      Above, strange groups adorn'd the corridore;
      And oft-times through the area's echoing door
      Some high-capp'd Tartar spurr'd his steed away:
      The Turk, the Greek, the Albanian, and the Moor,
      Here mingled in their many-hued array,
    While the deep war-drum's sound announced the close of day.

      "The wild Albanian, kirtled to his knee,
      With shawl-girt head and ornamented gun,
      And gold-embroider'd garments, fair to see;
      The crimson-scarfed men of Macedon;
      The Delhi, with his cap of terror on,
      And crooked glaive; the lively, supple Greek;
      And swarthy Nubia's mutilated son;
      The bearded Turk that rarely deigns to speak,
    Master of all around--too potent to be meek,

    "Are mix'd, conspicuous: some recline in groups,
    Scanning the motley scene that varies round;
    There some grave Moslem to devotion stoops,
    And some that smoke, and some that play, are found;
    Here the Albanian proudly treads the ground;
    Half whispering there the Greek is heard to prate;
    Hark! from the mosque the nightly solemn sound,
    The Muezzin's call doth shake the minaret,
    There is no god but God!--to prayer--lo! God is great!'"

    CHILDE HAROLD, Canto II.
]

[Footnote 127: In the shape of the hands, as a mark of high birth, Lord Byron himself had as
implicit faith as the Pacha: see his note on the line, "Though on more thorough-bred or fairer
fingers," in Don Juan.]

[Footnote 128: A few sentences are here and elsewhere omitted, as having no reference to Lord
Byron himself, but merely containing some particulars relating to Ali and his grandsons, which
may be found in various books of travels. Finding that, from his lameness, he was unable to
be of any service in the exertions which their very serious danger called for, after a laugh
or two at the panic of his valet, he not only wrapped himself up and lay down, in the manner
here mentioned, but, when their difficulties were surmounted, was found fast asleep.]

[Footnote 130: In the route from Ioannina to Zitza, Mr. Hobhouse and the secretary of Ali,
accompanied by one of the servants, had rode on before the rest of the party, and arrived at
the village just as the evening set in. After describing the sort of hovel in which they were
to take up their quarters for the night, Mr. Hobhouse thus continues:--"Vasilly was despatched
into the village to procure eggs and fowls, that would be ready, as we thought, by the arrival
of the second party. But an hour passed away and no one appeared. It was seven o'clock, and
the storm had increased to a fury I had never before, and, indeed, have never since, seen equalled.
The roof of our hovel shook under the clattering torrents and gusts of wind. The thunder roared,
as it seemed, without any intermission; for the echoes of one peal had not ceased to roll in
the mountains, before another tremendous crash burst over our heads; whilst the plains and
the distant hills (visible through the cracks of the cabin) appeared in a perpetual blaze.
The tempest was altogether terrific, and worthy of the Grecian Jove; and the peasants, no less
religious than their ancestors, confessed their alarm. The women wept, and the men, calling
on the name of God, crossed themselves at every repeated peal.

"We were very uneasy that the party did not arrive; but the secretary assured me that the guides
knew every part of the country, as did also his own servant, who was with them, and that they
had certainly taken shelter in a village at an hour's distance. Not being satisfied with the
conjecture, I ordered fires to be lighted on the hill above the village, and some muskets to
be discharged: this was at eleven o'clock, and the storm had not abated. I lay down in my great
coat; but all sleeping was out of the question, as any pauses in the tempest were filled up
by the barking of the dogs, and the shouting of the shepherds in the neighbouring mountains.

"A little after midnight, a man, panting and pale, and drenched with rain, rushed into the
room, and, between crying and roaring, with a profusion of action, communicated something to
the secretary, of which I understood only--that they had all fallen down. I learnt, however,
that no accident had happened, except the falling of the luggage horses, and losing their way,
and that they were now waiting for fresh horses and guides. Ten were immediately sent to them,
together with several men with pine-torches; but it was not till two o'clock in the morning
that we heard they were approaching, and my friend, with the priest and the servants, did not
enter our hut before three.

"I now learnt from him that they had lost their way from the commencement of the storm, when
not above three miles from the village; and that, after wandering up and down in total ignorance
of their position, they had, at last, stopped near some Turkish tombstones and a torrent, which
they saw by the flashes of lightning. They had been thus exposed for nine hours; and the guides,
so far from assisting them, only augmented the confusion, by running away, after being threatened
with death by George the dragoman, who, in an agony of rage and fear, and without giving any
warning, fired off both his pistols, and drew from the English servant an involuntary scream
of horror, for he fancied they were beset by robbers.

"I had not, as you have seen, witnessed the distressing part of this adventure myself; but
from the lively picture drawn of it by my friend, and from the exaggerated descriptions of
George, I fancied myself a good judge of the whole situation, and should consider this to have
been one of the most considerable of the few adventures that befell either of us during our
tour in Turkey. It was long before we ceased to talk of the thunder-storm in the plain of Zitza."]

[Footnote 131: Mr. Hobhouse. I think, makes the number of this guard but thirty-seven, and
Lord Byron, in a subsequent letter, rates them at forty.]

[Footnote 132:

    "Oh, thou Parnassus! whom I now survey,
     Not in the frenzy of a dreamer's eye,
     Not in the fabled landscape of a lay,
     But soaring snow-clad through thy native sky,
     In the wild pomp of mountain majesty!"

    CHILDE HAROLD, Canto I.
]

[Footnote 133: The passage of Harris, indeed, contains the pith of the whole stanza:--"Notwithstanding
the various fortune of Athens, as a city, Attica is still famous for olives, and Mount Hymettus
for honey. Human institutions perish, but Nature is permanent."--Philolog. In swimming from
Sestos to Abydos, he was one hour and ten minutes in the water.

In the year 1808, he had been nearly drowned, while swimming at Brighton with Mr. L. Stanhope.
His friend Mr. Hobhouse, and other bystanders, sent in some boatmen, with ropes tied round
them, who at last succeeded in dragging Lord Byron and Mr. Stanhope from the surf and thus
saved their lives.]

[Footnote 138: Alluding to his having swum across the Thames with Mr. H. Drury, after the Montem,
to see how many times they could perform the passage backwards and forwards without touching land.

