In St. Louis[17] live Mrs. Georgetta Cox and Miss Nellie Banks,--two ladies who have won golden
opinions for their exhibition of fine musical qualities. They are both excellent vocalists
and pianists.

[Footnote 17: St. Louis is placed in this section of the record because the latter is devoted
to such localities as before the war were within slave territory.]

Mr. L.W. Henderson as a vocalist, Mr. Alfred White and Mr. Samuel Butler as vocalists and instrumentalists,
all possess artistic abilities of a fine order.

Miss Johnson has attracted the attention and won the high praise of competent judges for her
proficiency in piano-forte performance.

Mr. James P. Thomas is a finished violinist.

With such artists as the above mentioned, and others whose names I have not learned, it will
be seen that the city of St. Louis is not behind in musical culture.

Helena, Ark., is fortunate in numbering among its citizens George H.W. Stewart,--a gentleman
of rare musical and general culture. He was, I think, educated in Indiana, and received a diploma
as a graduate from a college of music located at Indianapolis. Mr. Stewart's specialty as a
performer is the piano, with which instrument he finely interprets the best music of the masters.
He has also a soft yet powerful baritone-voice; and, as a singer, he has often delighted private
and public audiences.

Miss Annie S. Wright of Memphis, Tenn., has few equals in that State as a ready reader of music,
or in the feeling and expression with which she awakes the echoes of the piano-forte.

In Memphis there are several others possessing good ability as instrumentalists.

No fears need be entertained that Nashville, Tenn., will not keep pace with the advance of
other cities in musical culture. The famous Jubilee Singers of Fisk University, located near
Nashville, may well be mentioned here as noble representatives of that city, and as those whose
splendid example and achievements as singers will always serve as a stimulus to the cultivation
of music by their towns-people.

I mention here with much pleasure the Lord family of Charleston, S.C. The father was a musician
of good ability, a pleasing performer on the cornet and (I think) one or two other instruments,
and was leader of an orchestra. He early gave his two daughters instruction in music.

I recall with much interest a visit I made this accomplished family early in 1865, when the
regiment with which I was connected lay encamped near Charleston. On this occasion, after our
indulgence in conversation touching the war, &c., I begged that I might be favored with some
music. The request was readily complied with, the father and daughters uniting in a performance
of several very pleasing selections.

Other members of my regiment, I know, also retain very pleasant recollections of the Lord family,
not only on account of the charming musical qualities of the latter, but also on account of
their winning courtesy to the Union soldiers. One of these was so far captivated (it could
not have been by the music alone) by the elder daughter, as to invite her to adorn as his bride
a home of his own. Our gallant Sergeant White was accepted; and the lady has since shared with
him the enjoyment of many honors which his fine abilities have won for him in the "sunny South."

Mr. Lord died a few years ago. His example in inculcating in his children a love for the elevating
art of music cannot be too strongly recommended for the imitation of all heads of families
who desire to form at their firesides such sources of interest, refinement, and pleasure, as
will cause their children to prefer them, as they ever should, to all places not comprised
in the sacred name of "home."

In making this brief survey, another locality of the South is now approached, which is so rich
in musical culture as to occasion (at least to the writer) delightful surprise, and warrant
special mention of the circumstances connected with the same. I refer to the city of New Orleans,
which will be treated in the next chapter.

III.

NEW ORLEANS.

THE MUSICAL AND GENERAL CULTURE OF ITS COLORED CITIZENS.

     "Though last, not least."

     SHAKSPEARE.

Before the late war, the city of New Orleans was often styled "the Paris of America." The Province
of Louisiana, originally settled by the French, and until 1812, when it became a State of the
American Union, contained a population naturally distinguished by the same general characteristics
as those which marked the people of France. The Frenchman has for a long time been proverbially
a devotee of the fine arts; and of these that gay and brilliant city Paris--which has ever
been to its enamoured citizens not only all France, but all the world--became for France the
centre.

Here, then, a love of that beautiful art, music, since the days, hundreds of years ago, of
the courtly ménestrels, has been a conspicuous trait in the character of the people. Of course,
in leaving Paris and France, and crossing the seas,--first to Canada, and then to Louisiana,--the
Frenchman carried with him that same love of the arts, particularly that of music, that he
felt in fatherland. And so New Orleans, which in time grew to be the metropolis of Louisiana,
became also to these French settlers the new Paris. In fact, even for years after the State
was admitted into the Union, and although meanwhile immigration had set in from other parts
of the country, New Orleans remained of the French "Frenchy." The great wealth of many of its
citizens, their gayety, their elegant and luxurious mode of living, their quick susceptibility
to the charms of music, their generous patronage of general art, together with certain forms
of divine worship observed by a large number of them,--all this served for a long time to remind
one of the magnificent capital of France.

The opera, with its ravishing music, its romance of sentiment and incident, its resplendent
scenery, and the rich costumes and brilliant delineations of its actors,--all so well calculated
to charm a people of luxurious tastes,--has always been generously patronized in New Orleans;
and so, too, have been the other forms of musical presentation. Amateur musicians have never
been scarce there: such persons, pursuing their studies, not with a pecuniary view (being in
easy circumstances), but simply from a love of music, have ever found congenial association
in the city's many cultured circles; while many others, who, although ardently loving music
for its own sake, were yet forced by less fortunate circumstances to seek support in discoursing
it to others,--these have always found ready and substantial recognition in this music-loving city.

But does all I have been saying apply to the colored people of New Orleans as well, almost,
as to the others? Strange to say, it does. Natural lovers of the "art divine," and naturally
capable of musical expression,--they too, although with far less of advantages for culture
than the others, have with voice and instrument, and even as composers, helped to form the
throng of harmonists, playing no mean part in the same. The colored people of New Orleans have
long been remarked for their love of and proficiency in music and other of the elegant arts.
Forty years ago "The New-Orleans Picayune" testified to their superior taste for and appreciation
of the drama, especially Shakspeare's plays. A certain portion of these people, never having
been subjected to the depressing cruelties of abject servitude, although, of course, suffering
much from the caste spirit that followed and presented great obstacles to even such as they,
were allowed to acquire the means for defraying the expenses of private instruction, or for
sending their children to Northern or European schools. Indeed, as regards the exhibition of
this ambitious musical spirit, this yearning for a higher education and a higher life, these
people often exceeded those of fairer complexions; many of their sons and daughters attaining
to a surpassing degree of proficiency in music, while they became noticeable for that ease
and polish of manners, and that real refinement of living, which ever mark the true lady or
gentleman.

Again: there was another portion of this same race, who, in the circumstances of their situation,
were far less fortunate than even those of whom I have just been speaking: I mean those who
were directly under the "iron heel of oppression." Nevertheless, many of these were so moved
by a spirit of art-love, and were so ardent and determined, as to have acquired a scientific
knowledge of music, and to have even excelled, strange to say, in its creation and performance,
in spite of all difficulties. As to just how a thing so remarkable, nay, I may say wonderful,
was accomplished, would form many a story of most intense and romantic interest. But with present
limits I may not narrate the many instances of heroic struggle against the foul spirit of caste
prejudice, and the many noble triumphs over the same, that belong to the lives of nearly if
not quite all of the artists of whom I shall presently briefly speak.

And here it is utterly impossible to resist the depressing effects of that deep feeling of
gloom which settles upon one as thoughts like the following crowd into the mind. How much,
how very much, has been lost to art in this country through that fell spirit which for more
than two hundred years has animated the majority of its people against a struggling and an
unoffending minority,--a spirit which ever sought to crush out talent, to quench the sacred
fire of genius, and to crowd down all noble aspirations, whenever these evidences of a high
manhood were shown by those whose skins were black! Ah! we may never know how much of grandeur
of achievement, the results of which the country might now be enjoying, had not those restless,
aspiring minds been fettered by all that was the echo of a terrible voice, which, putting to
an ignoble use the holy words of Divinity, cried up and down the land unceasingly, "Hitherto
shalt thou come, but no farther!" For to judge as to what "might have been," and what yet may
be, despite the cruelties of the past (since, even in this instance, "the best prophet of the
future is the past"), we have only to look at what is. But from those bitter days of a barbarous
time, when hearts were oft bowed in anguish, when tears of blood were wept, and when often
attempts were made to dwarf yearning intellect to a beastly level,--let us turn quickly our
weeping eyes from those terrible days, now gone, we hope never again to return, towards that
brighter prospect which opens before our delighted vision: let us joyfully look upon what is,
and think of what may be. For

     "The world is cold to him who pleads;
     The world bows low to knightly deeds."

Returning, then, directly to the subject in hand (viz., the colored musical artists of New
Orleans), I first quote from a paper prepared by a cultured gentleman of that city, himself
a fine musician, the following retrospective comment on some of the former residents there:--

"For want of avenues in which to work their way in life, and for many reasons which are easily
understood, our best artists [colored] removed to other countries in search of their rights,
and of proper channels in which to achieve success in the world. Among these were Eugène Warburg,
since distinguished in Italy as a sculptor; Victor Séjour, in Paris, as a poet, and composer
of tragedy; Caraby, in France, as a lawyer; Dubuclet, in Bordeaux, as a physician and musician;
and many others." All these were forced to leave New Orleans, their native city, because of
the prejudice that prevailed against them on account of their color. In other countries, which
Americans have been wont to style, forsooth, "despotic," these aspiring men found ready recognition,
and arose, as has been seen, to high distinction in their chosen callings.

Of a few others who for these same reasons left their native city and went abroad, as well
as of a large number of talented, educated musical people who remained in New Orleans, I shall
now speak.

The Lambert family, consisting of seven persons, presents the remarkable instance of each of
its members possessing great musical talent, supplemented by most careful cultivation.

Richard Lambert, the father, has long been highly esteemed as a teacher of music. Many of his
pupils have attained to a fine degree of proficiency as performers of music, and some of them
are to-day composers.

Lucien Lambert, very early in life, attracted attention by his ardent devotion to the study
of music. He used to give six hours of each day to practice, and became a pianist of rare ability.
With a style of performance really exquisite, he has always excited the admiration, and sometimes
the wonder, of his auditors, by easy triumphs over all piano difficulties. But his genius and
ambition were such, that mere performance of the music of others did not long satisfy him.
He became a composer of great merit. A man of high soul, he also, ere long, grew restive under
the restraints, that, on account of his complexion, were thrown around him in New Orleans.
He longed to breathe the air of a free country, where he might have an equal chance with all
others to develop his powers: and so, after a while, he went to France; and, continuing his
studies in Paris under the best masters of the art, he rapidly attained to great skill in performance
and in composition. He finally went to Brazil, where he now resides, being engaged in the manufacture
of pianos. He is about fifty years of age, a gentleman of imposing appearance. Lucien Lambert
has written much music. Below is given the titles of only a very small number of his compositions:--

"La Juive;" "Le Départ du Conscrit" (fantasie march); "Les Ombres Aimées;" "La Brésiliana;"
"Paris Vienne;" "Le Niagara;" "Au Clair de la Lune," with variations; "Ah! vous disais-je,
Maman;" "L'Américaine;" "La Rose et le Bengali;" "Pluie de Corails;" "Cloches et Clochettes;"
"Étude Mazurka."[18]

[Footnote 18: Only to those who have not read the introduction to these sketches will it seem
strange that the titles of these, and of the works hereafter mentioned, although they are the
creations of Americans, are yet given in the French language. For the information of such persons,
I repeat in substance what has already been said, that these authors, in adopting the course
just referred to, have only followed a custom which is most generally observed in the highest
art-circles of New Orleans, "the Paris of America,"--a custom, too, which, no doubt, is in
harmony with the tastes, as it is with the acquirements, of the authors themselves, all of
whom speak and write the French language quite perfectly. It may be well to here say also,
that all of the above-mentioned works, and all others (not otherwise specified) mentioned hereafter,
bear the imprint of some one of the principal music-publishers of the day, from whom, of course,
copies may be ordered, if desired.]

Sidney Lambert, stimulated by the instruction and good fame of his father and the high reputation
gained by his brother Lucien, and himself possessing rich natural powers, soon became conspicuous
for brilliant execution on the piano-forte, and as a composer of music for that and other instruments.
He has also written a method for the piano, the merits of which are such as to cause him to
be lately decorated for the same by the King of Portugal. He is now a professor of music in
Paris, France. Here is a partial list of pieces composed and arranged by him:--

"Si j'étais Roi;" "Murmures du Soir;" "L'Africaine;" "Anna Bolena;" "La Sonnambula;" "L'Élisire;"
"Transports Joyeux;" "Les Cloches."

Mr. E. Lambert is the very efficient leader and instructor of the St. Bernard Brass Band. He
is a line musician, performing with much skill on several instruments.

John Lambert, only sixteen years of age, is already regarded as an excellent musical artist.
He was educated in St. Joseph School, New Orleans. He seems almost a master of his principal
instrument, the cornet, playing with ease the most difficult music written for the same. He
is a member of the St. Bernard Band,--a very valuable member too, since he can play a variety
of instruments.

The two Misses Lambert are accomplished pianists. One of them is an excellent teacher.

Edmund Dédé was born in New Orleans in the year 1829. He learned first the clarinet, and became
a good player. He afterwards took up the violin for study, under the direction of C. Deburque,
a colored gentleman. After a while he took lessons of Mr. L. Gabici, who was at one time chief
of the orchestra of the St. Charles Theatre. Dédé was a cigar-maker by trade. Being of very
good habits, and economical, he accumulated enough money after a while to pay for a passage
to France, where, on his arrival in 1857, he received a welcome worthy of a great people and
of so fine an artist. He is very popular, not only as a violinist, but as a man, being of fine
appearance, of amiable disposition, and very polite and agreeable in his manners. While a student
in New Orleans, many were they who seemed never to grow tired in listening to his peculiarly
fine playing of the studies of Kreutzer and the "Seventh Air Varié de Beriot." He is considered
alike remarkable in his perfect making of the staccato and the legato; is very ardent in his
play, throwing his whole soul into it; and meets with no difficulties that he does not easily
overcome. Mr. Dédé is now director of the orchestra of "L'Alcazar," in Bordeaux, France. He
is of unmixed negro blood, and is married to a beautiful and accomplished French lady.

The titles of only a very few of the works composed by Edmund Dédé can now be given. They are
as follows: "Le Sement  de l'Arabe," "Vaillant Belle Rose Quadrille" (this it was called originally;
but I believe the piece has been published under another name), "Le Palmier Overture."

Basile Barès  was born in New Orleans Jan. 2, 1846, and is what may be called a self-made man.
He to-day enjoys a fine reputation as a pianist and composer. His studies on the piano were
begun under Eugène Prévost, who was, in years gone by, director of the Orleans Theatre and
the opera-house orchestras. Barès studied harmony and composition under Master Pedigram. In
1867 he visited the Paris Exposition, at which he remained four months, giving many performances
upon the piano-forte. Mr. Barès resides in New Orleans. I append this partial list of his works:
"La Capricieuse Valse," "Delphine Valse Brillante," "Les Variétés du Carnaval," "Les Violettes
Valse," "La Créole" (march), "Élodia" (polka mazurka), "Merry Fifty Lancers," "Basile's Galop,"
"Les Cents Gardes" (valse), and "Minuit Polka de Salon."

Professor Samuel Snaer, a native of New Orleans, is in his forty-fourth year, and is a musician
of remarkably fine powers. He is a brilliant pianist, and a most skilful performer on the violin
and violoncello. As a violoncellist he has but few equals anywhere. He is an esteemed teacher
of violin and piano, and is organist at St. Mary's (Catholic) Church.

But Professor Snaer's musical abilities do not end with the accomplishments just mentioned.
He is, besides, a ready composer, and has produced much music of a varied and very meritorious
character. Extreme modesty, however, has prevented him from publishing many of his pieces.
Generally his habit has been to sit down and compose a piece, and then allow the manuscript
to go the rounds among his acquaintances. As he would make no request for its return, nor express
solicitude regarding its fate, the music rarely returned to the composer; so that to-day the
most unlikely place to find copies of his works is at the professor's own residence.

Professor Snaer has a memory of most wonderful power. When he was eighteen years old (that
was twenty-six years ago), he composed his "Sous sa Fenêtre." Without having seen this music
for many years, he can to-day write it out note for note. He remembers equally well each one
of his many compositions, some of which have been of an elaborate and difficult character.
He has lately rewritten from memory, for a gentleman in Boston, a great solemn mass which he
composed several years ago. Those who are familiar with the original draught of this mass say
that the present one is its exact counterpart.

The following comprises in part a list of the works of Professor Snaer:--

     "Sous sa Fenêtre," published by Louis Grunewald, New
     Orleans.

     "Le Chant du Départ," published by Louis Grunewald, New
     Orleans. (Two editions issued.)

     "Rappelle-toi," published by Louis Grunewald, New Orleans.
     (Two editions issued.)

     "Grand Scène Lyrique" (solo and duetto).

     "Graziella" (overture for full orchestra).

     "Le Vampire" (vocal and instrumental).

     "Le Bohémien" (vocal and instrumental).

     "Le Chant des Canotiers" (trio); and a large number of
     Polkas, Mazurkas, Quadrilles, and Waltzes.

Professor Snaer is also a man of letters, a littérateur; and in such matters, as well as those
of music, much deference is paid to his judgment by his contemporaries.

Mr. Henry Staes is a youth quite ardent in his study of the piano-forte.

Mr. Lanoix Parent, formerly a member of the Philharmonic Society, is a performer on the violin,
viola, and some other instruments.

Professor A.P. Williams, born in Norwich, Conn., in 1840, is highly esteemed as a vocalist
and pianist. He is an efficient teacher of vocal and instrumental music. He received his musical
training from his father, Mr. P.M. Williams, who, a native of Massachusetts, was a proficient
vocalist and organist. Professor Williams is a man of decided intellectual merit, and is principal
instructor in a grammar-school in New Orleans.

Mr. E.V. Macarty, a native of New Orleans, was born in 1821. He began lessons on the piano
under Professor J. Norres. In 1840 he was sent to Paris, where, through the intervention of
Hon. Pierre Soulé and the French ambassador to the United States, he was admitted to the Imperial
Conservatoire, although he was then over the age prescribed for admission. At the Conservatoire
he studied vocal music, harmony, and composition. He has composed some pieces that have been
published, the names of which, however, are not known to the writer. Mr. Macarty is especially
distinguished as a vocalist: as a singer he is full of sentiment, and very impressive; is a
fine pianist; and much admired, too, as an amateur actor. In the rôle of Antony, in the play
of that name, by Alexandre Dumas, as well as in that of Buridan in "La Tour de Nesle," by the
same author, Mr. Macarty has won high honors. He also has held several positions of trust under
the State government.

Mr. F.C. Viccus is a gentleman of fine musical abilities, a performer on the violin, cornet,
and even other instruments.

McDonald Repanti, before going to Mexico, became one of the most remarkable pianists of New
Orleans. His trade in early life was that of a worker in marble; and being very fond of music,
and desirous to study the piano, he used to work very hard at his trade during six months of
the year, and then devote the other six to severe study of music, and practice on his favorite
instrument. This he did under the instruction of his brother, Fierville Repanti, who was formerly
a teacher of marked ability, and a composer of music. Fierville removed to Paris, where he
died some years ago.

Maurice J.B. Doublet was born in New Orleans in the year 1831. In that city he takes rank with
the best violinists, and is highly rated as a general musician. Modesty has kept him away from
the public but too often, since he possesses powers that would cause him always to be the recipient
of much applause from large and cultivated audiences. He studied under L. Gabici. Mr. Doublet,
as a violinist, is most remarkable for the purity of the tones produced, and the faithfulness
he exhibits in giving expression to the composer's thoughts. These qualities, which it seems
were given him by nature, are also noticeable in all of his pupils. Mr. Doublet is also a composer,
but is so modest as to hide from the general public all that he has done in that line.

Dennis Auguste was born in New Orleans in 1850, and is therefore twenty-seven years of age.
Although so young, he is regarded as a fine musician. He grew to manhood in the family of Col.
Félix Labatut, by whom and his wife Dennis was treated as a son. Mr. and Mrs. Labatut, who
were a noble and high-minded couple, of well-known liberal ideas, spared no pains to give their
charge a thorough education. Teachers were employed to instruct him in many branches of learning.
Mr. Ludger Boquille, a colored gentleman, became his teacher in French; Prof. Richard Lambert
gave the youth his first lessons in music and on the piano; Prof. Rolling, a well-known artist,
directed him in the same studies afterward; while in vocal music, harmony, and composition,
he became proficient under Mr. Eugène Prévost. Mr. Auguste has proved himself worthy of the
care that was given to his training by his Christian-like guardians and faithful teachers.
As a performer he is held in high esteem, and is often employed by the best families of both
races in his native city.

Henry Corbin, for several years a resident in New Orleans, was born in Cincinnati, O., in the
year 1845. He learned the violin under a German teacher and under Professor Bonnivard. He has
played as an amateur on many occasions at concerts, and always with marked acceptance to his
audiences. Mr. Corbin's musical achievements are very fine, considering the great amount of
time he has given to employments connected with state and city government. He was at one time
private secretary to Gov. Pinchback; at another, secretary of the Board of Directors of the
Public Schools of New Orleans; and is now tax-collector for the Sixth District in that city.

J.M. Doublet is only eighteen years of age, but is considered already a violinist of excellent
ability. He has studied music under the direction of his father, J.B.M. Doublet.

Adolphe Liantaud is one of the best performers on the cornet in New Orleans: indeed, for purity
and smoothness of tone, as well as power, he is regarded as most remarkable.

Mr. Henry Berrot is considered an excellent player on the contra-bass, although beginning its
practice only a few years ago, and at an age when most persons would despair of acquiring a
knowledge of that or any other instrument.

Mrs. P. Casnave is a brilliant pianist.

Miss Macarty has on several occasions appeared at public concerts, and has always been received
with marked favor. She is quite studious, and renders difficult and classical compositions
for the piano in a most creditable manner.

As may be readily supposed of a community like that of New Orleans, where there is a large
colored population composed of so many people of culture, the gentler sex are only behind the
other, in possessing a knowledge of music, to that extent which has been caused by those unreasonable,
unwritten, yet inexorable rules of society, that have hitherto forbidden women to do more than
learn to perform upon the piano-forte and guitar, and to sing. But among the ladies of New
Orleans there are many who may be called excellent pianists, and those who, possessing good
voices, sing the choicest music of the day with a fine degree of taste and expression. Most
of these (only a few of them are performers in public), by their musical culture, and the possession
of those general graces of a beautiful womanhood,--graces the possession of which

     "Show us how divine a thing
     A woman may become,"--

add to the adornments and refining pleasures of many private circles, and thus keep pace with
their male relatives and friends in demonstrating the intellectual equality of their race.
It would, however, take up far too much of space to here present a larger number of the names
of these accomplished ladies than has already been given; and it is therefore hoped that the
latter,--fair representatives of many others that might be given,--and the general mention
just made, may suffice.

Returning to the other sex, I first refer to Constantin Deberque, who is a musician of fine
ability, a teacher of great skill, and a gentleman of good general culture. Mr. Deberque will
again be mentioned on a succeeding page.

Dr. E. Dubuclet is a finished violinist. He is a brother of Dr. Dubuclet, heretofore mentioned
as having removed to Bordeaux, France.

The Dupré family are remarkable for their excellent musical qualities. Each of the brothers,
Ciel, Lucien, and Esebe, play upon several instruments; while their two sisters are also well
versed in music.

Mr. Raymond Auguste, as a cornetist, is quite noticeable for the purity, strength, and fine
expression of the tones he produces.

Eugène Convertie is a classical student; wins golden opinions for his piano performances; and
has been highly esteemed as a teacher of that instrument. He is now succeeding as a dry-goods
merchant in New Orleans.

Mr. Kelly, band-director, is very effective as a performer on the cornet.

Mr. Émile Ricard is regarded as a good pianist and teacher.

Joseph A. Moret is a violin-player, to whom all listen with pleasure. He was first a pupil
under Professor Snaer, and afterwards studied under Professor Bonnivard. Mr. Moret, having
been instructed by such good teachers, possessing much natural talent, and being withal so
young, has before him a brilliant future.

Joseph Mansion is an amateur violinist, and a gentleman of much intelligence. He was formerly
a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives, and is now State-tax assessor.

Joseph Bazanac was an excellent performer on the flute and bassoon, and a teacher of music.
He was, besides, acknowledged as a skilful instructor in the French and English languages.
He died a few months ago.

Charles Martinez, who died in 1874, was most remarkable for proficiency in performance upon
a great number of instruments,--being an artistic guitarist and violinist, a player upon the
contra-bass,--and was also a good singer. Being of an ambitious turn of mind, Mr. Martinez
studied, without a teacher, to become a notary-public, and was appointed as such.

Professor Thomas Martin was at a time one of the first musicians of New Orleans and of Louisiana,
being without an equal as a guitarist, was a great performer on the violin and piano-forte,
and played even other instruments. He was also a fine vocalist, a ready and good composer,
and was much celebrated for abilities in teaching music. A fine-looking man, very agreeable
and gentlemanly in his manners, Professor Martin soon won his way against all obstacles, and
became the favorite musical instructor not only of those of his own race, but also of many
persons connected with the most aristocratic white families of New Orleans and its vicinity.
This once talented musician is now no more; he having died some years ago in Europe, as I am
informed.

Octave Piron was once very prominent as an excellent vocalist and guitarist. He devotes his
attention now more to the contra-bass, upon which instrument he is regarded as a good performer.

J.M. Holland is a young man who gives much promise of becoming an excellent pianist.

And thus I might go on and on, mentioning name after name, and achievement after achievement;
but warned by the great number of pages already devoted to these praiseworthy musical people
of New Orleans, and believing that enough has been presented to serve the object had in view
when these notices were begun, I will shortly close this record.

As a sample of the concerts frequently given in New Orleans by amateur musicians of the colored
race, I append this programme of one lately given:--

                           Mr. O.P.

4. SYMPHONY.--For Two Violins and Piano,               { L.M., J.M.,
                                                       { and Miss A.F.

5. MY SUNDAY DRESS.--Song                                Jos. L., Jun.

=Intermission.--Part Second.=

6. OVERTURE.--"Sémiramis"                                   ORCHESTRA.

7. JUDITH.--Concone                                        Miss R.F.

8. THE ENCHANTRESS.--Fantasie for Violin                          L.M.

9. L'EXTASE.--Valse brillante.--L'Arditi                     Miss F.

10. FORTUNIO'S SONG.--"Alsacian Dream"                   Jos. L., Jun.

=Intermission.--Part Third.=

11. OVERTURE.--"La Dame Blanche"                            ORCHESTRA.

12. CONSTANTINOPLE.--A. Loyd                               Miss R.F.

13. UNE DRÔLE DE SOIRÉE.--Scène Humoristique,             J.A. COLLIN.

Miss A.F. will preside at the Piano.

The Orchestra under direction of Mr. LOUIS MARTIN.

DOORS OPEN AT 6.----CONCERT TO BEGIN AT 7 PRECISELY.]

[Footnote 19: This composer has been previously mentioned in these sketches. "Le Bohémien"
is one of several of Professor Snaer's pieces that show him to be a writer of fine abilities.]

From the notes of a musical critic of New Orleans I learn that this concert was in all respects
a fine success. The different overtures were well executed by an ensemble of twenty instrumentalists,
all colored men; while all the numbers on the programme were rendered, generally, in a manner
that would have been creditable, even had the performers been, as they were not, professionals.

The audience was a large and brilliant one, composed of members of both races, and was quite
demonstrative in the bestowment of applause and in floral offerings. As at first remarked,
concerts like the one just described are frequently given in New Orleans.

New Orleans has several fine brass bands among its colored population. "Kelly's Band" and the
"St. Bernard Brass Band" deserve particular mention here. The "St. Bernard" is composed of
a very intelligent class of young men, studious, and of excellent moral character; in fact,
they form a splendid corps of musicians, equalled by but few others, and excelled by none.
With these two bands and some others, the names of which I have not now at hand, the people
of New Orleans are always well supplied with the best of martial music.

Before the late war, the city had an association of colored men called the "Philharmonic Society."
Several liberal-minded native and foreign gentlemen of the other race were always glad to come
and play with the "Philharmonics" overtures and other music of a classical character. This
was really a scholarly body of musicians, with whom the very best artists of any race might
well be proud to associate. Constantin Deberque and Richard Lambert were among those, who at
times directed the orchestra. Eugène Rudanez, Camille Camp, Adolph Angelaine, T. Delassize,
Lucien and Victor Pessou, J.A. Bazanac, Charles Martinez, and over one hundred other amateur
musicians, added a lustre to the good name of the colored men of New Orleans, even during the
gloomy days of oppression. These men with all their souls loved music and the drama; but were
kept away from the grand opera, from concerts and theatrical performances, because they would
not submit to the degradation of sitting in a marked place designated "for colored persons."
Nevertheless, they were not to be deterred from following that bent of their minds which a
love of art directed; and so, thrown entirely upon their own resources, these high-minded men
formed the "Philharmonic Society" and other musical associations, finding in the same much
to compensate them for what they lost by being debarred from entering those circles of culture
and amusement, the conditions of entrance to which were, not a love of and proficiency in art,
but that ignoble and foolish one, the mere possession of a white face.

       *       *       *       *       *

And thus has been briefly and (as the writer fears) imperfectly told the story of these highly
musical people of New Orleans. Bearing in mind the great and manifold difficulties against
which they ever had to struggle,--not only such difficulties as all must encounter who study
the science of music, but also those far, far greater ones that are caused by color-prejudice,
the extent of whose terrible, blighting power none can ever imagine that do not actually meet
it,--bearing in mind, I say, all these obstacles, and their triumphs over the same, it will
be seen that much has been accomplished that may be considered really wonderful. As better
opportunities for culture, and that fulness of recognition and appreciation without which even
genius must languish and in many cases die,--as these come to them, as come they surely will
in this new era of freedom,--then will such earnest votaries as have here been mentioned, with

     "No fears to beat away, no strife to heal,
     The past unsighed for, and the future sure,"--

attain to even greater degrees of proficiency and eminence in that noble art of which Pope
thus beautifully sings:--

     "By Music, minds an equal temper know,
     Nor swell too high, nor sink too low.

APPENDIX.

MUSIC.

PREFACE TO THE MUSIC.

It is deemed necessary to offer a few words of explanation touching the music printed on the
following pages.

The collection is given in order to complete the author's purpose, which is not only to show
the proficiency of the subjects of the foregoing sketches as interpreters of the music of others,
but, further, to illustrate the ability of quite a number of them (and, relatively, that of
their race) to originate and scientifically arrange good music.

For want of space, only a few selections have been made from the many compositions in the writer's
possession; and, for the same reason, only parts of several works, somewhat elaborate in character,
have been given; the latter curtailment having been made in the cases of the following: "The
Pilgrim" (a grand overture, originally occupying about twenty pages, sheet-music size), only
one-third of which appears in this collection; of an elegant arrangement of the air of "Au
Clair de la Lune" (containing Introduction, Theme, First, Second, and Third Variations, and
Finale), only the "Theme" and Third Variation are given; of the Parisian Waltzes (a set of
five), only the introduction, coda, and Waltz No. 3 are given; of "Les Clochettes,"--fantaisie
mazurka,--only a part appears; and so of "La Capricieuse;" while, of the "Mass," only two movements
appear, the "Gloria" and "Agnus Dei." The attention of all who shall examine the music is particularly
called to the above statements, in order that there may be no surprises, and no injustice done
the composers.

