  Calenus owed a single pound, which yet
  With all my dunning I could never get.
  Tired of fair words, whose falsehood I foresaw,
  I hied to Aulus, learned in the law.
  He heard my story, bade me "Never fear,
  There was no doubt--no case could be more clear:--
  He'd do the needful in the proper place,
  And give his best attention to the case."
    And this he may have done--for it appears
  To have been his business for the last ten years,
  Though on his pains ten times ten pounds bestow'd
  Have not regain'd that one Calenus owed.
    Now, fearful lest this unproductive strife
  Consume at once my fortune and my life,
  I take the only course I can pursue,
  And shun my debtor and my lawyer too.
  I've no more hope from promises or laws,
  And heartily renounce both debt and cause--
  But if with either rogue I've more to do,
  I'll surely choose my debtor of the two;
  For though I credit not the lies he tells,
  At least he gives me what the other sells.

Rufus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Epigram on Louis XIV.--I find the following epigram among some old papers. The emperor would
be Leopold I., the king Louis XIV.

Epigram by the Emperor, 1666, and the King of France.

  Bella fugis, sequeris bellas, pugnæque repugnas,
    Et bellatori sunt tibi bella tori.
  Imbelles imbellis amas, totusque videris
    Mars ad opus Veneris, Martis ad arma Venus.

J.H.L.

Macaulay's Young Levite.--I met, the other day with a rather curious confirmation of a passage
in Macaulay's History of England, which has been more assailed perhaps than any other.

In his character of the clergy, Macaulay says, they frequently married domestics and retainers
of great houses--a statement which has grievously excited the wrath of Mr. Babington and other
champions. In a little book, once very popular, first published in 1628, with the title Microcosmographie,
or a Piece of the World discovered, and which is known to have been written by John Earle,
after the Restoration Bishop of Worcester and then of Salisbury, is the following passage.
It occurs in what the author calls a character of "a young raw preacher."

    "You shall know him by his narrow velvet cape and serge
    facing, and his ruffe, next his hire, the shortest thing
    about him.... His friends, and much painefulnesse, may
    preferre him to thirtie pounds a yeere, and this meanes, to
    a chamber-maide: with whom we leave him now in the bonds of
    wedlocke. Next Sunday you shall have him againe."

The same little book contains many very curious and valuable illustrations of contemporary
manners, especially in the universities.

That the usage Macaulay refers to was not uncommon, we find from a passage in the Woman-Hater,
by Beaumont and Fletcher (1607), Act III. Sc. 3.

Lazarillo says,

  "Farewell ye courtly chaplains that be there!
  All good attend you! May you never more
  Marry your patron's lady's waiting-woman!"

I.T.

Trin. Coll. Camb., March 16. 1850. {375}

St. Martin's Lane.--The first building leases of St. Martin's Lane and the adjacent courts
accidentally came under my notice lately. They are dated in 1635 and 1636, and were granted
by the then Earl of Bedford.

Arun.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES DEERING, M.D.

"Author of the Catalogue of Plants in the neighbourhood of Nottingham. 'Catalogus Stirpium,
&c., or a Catalogue of Plants naturally growing and commonly cultivated in divers parts of
England, and especially about Nottingham,' 8vo. Nottingh. 1738.

"He was in the suite of the English ambassador to Russia, returned and practised physic in
London married unfortunately, buried his wife, and then went to Nottingham, where he lived
several years. During his abode there he wrote a small Treatise on the Small Pocks, this Catalogue
of Plants, and the History of Nottingham, the materials for which John Plumtre, Esq. of Nottingham,
was so obliging as to assist him with. He also was paid 40l. by a London bookseller for adding
20,000 words to an English dictionary. He was master of seven languages, and in 1746 he was
favoured with a commission in the Nottinghamshire Foot, raised at that time. Soon after died,
and was buried in St. Peter's Churchyard.

"William Ayscough, father of the printer of this Catalogus Stirpium (G. Ayscough), in 1710,
first introduced the art of printing at Nottingham.

"Mr. White was the same year the first printer at Newcastle-upon-Tyne; and Mr. Dicey at Northampton."--MS.
Note in the Copy of the Cat. Stirpium, in the Library of the British Museum.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, CATALOGUES, SALES, ETC.

Our advertising columns already show some of the good results of the Exhibition of the Works
of Ancient and Mediæval Art. Mr. Williams announced last week his Historic Reliques, to be
etched by himself. Mr. Cundall has issued proposals for Choice Examples of Art Workmanship;
and, lastly, we hear that an Illustrated Catalogue of the Exhibition, prepared by Mr. Franks,
the zealous Honorary Secretary of the Committee, and so arranged as to form a History of Art,
may be expected. We mention these for the purpose of inviting our friends to contribute to
the several editors such information as they may think likely to increase the value of the
respective works.

The second edition of our able correspondent, Mr. Peter Cunningham's Handbook of London, is
on the eve of publication.

There are few of our readers but will be glad to learn from the announcement in a previous
column, that the edition of the Wickliffite Versions of the Scriptures, upon which Sir Frederick
Madden and his fellow labourers have been engaged for a period of twenty years, is just completed.
It forms, we believe, three quarto volumes.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson lately disposed of a most select and interesting collection of
autograph letters. We unfortunately did not receive the catalogue in time to notice it, which
we the more regret, because, like all their catalogues of autographs, it was drawn up with
amateur-like intelligence and care; so as to make it worth preserving as a valuable record
of materials for our history and biography.

We have received the following Catalogues of Books:--No. XXV. of Thomas Cole's (15. Great Turnstile):
No. 2. for 1850, of William Heath's (29½ Lincoln's Inn Fields); and No. 15. of Bernard Quarritch's
(16.

Mykur Hazem, by Marcus, London, 1846.

Poems by a Bornnatural, 1849.

ODD VOLUMES.

Proceedings of the Philological Society. Vol. I.

Richardson's Correspondence, Vol. I. of the Six-Volume Ed.

Todd's Johnson's Dictionary, 4to., 1819.

Burning for Treason.--Can the Correspondent who furnished us with a curious Note upon this
subject favour us with a copy of it, the original having been accidentally mislaid?

We are again compelled, from want of space, to omit many curious and interesting articles;
and, after this statement, must beg our kind friends at Leeds, Brompton, &c., who complain
of delay in the insertion of their communications, to do us the favour to refer to the notice
on this very subject which appeared in our early numbers.

       *       *       *       *       *{376}

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW,

No. CLXXII. is Published This Day.

    CONTENTS:
  I. GIACOMO LEOPARDI AND HIS WRITINGS.
  II. RANKE'S HOUSE OF BRANDENBURG.
  III. QUEEN'S COLLEGE, LONDON.
  IV. GROTE'S HISTORY OF GREECE.
  V. URQUHART'S PILLARS OF HERCULES.
  VI. FACTS IN FIGURES.
  VII. THE DUTIFUL SON.
  VIII. CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK OF LONDON.
  IX. BAXTER'S IMPRESSIONS OF EUROPE.
  X. LORD LIEUTENANT CLARENDON.
  XI. LOUIS PHILIPPE.

John Murray, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEARLY READY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILLER'S CATALOGUE OF ANCIENT AND MODERN BOOKS.--NUMBER FOUR is ready this day, and can be
had Gratis, and sent, if required, Postage Free. Address, John Miller, 43, Chandos Street,
Trafalgar Square. This List embraces numerous valuable and interesting Books on English Poetry,
the Drama, History, Biography, Voyages and Travels, &c., with the works of a few of the best
Continental writers, a selection of Pictorial Books of Scenery, Costume, Topography, and Drawing-room
Table Books.

Also, on forwarding Four Postage Stamps, JOHN MILLER'S CATALOGUE OF BOOKS FOR THE PAST QUARTER
may be had stitched in a wrapper, with a Table of Contents, showing at one glance the range
of subjects embraced, amongst which may be enumerated the following, viz., America, Angling,
Banking and Currency, Coins, Dictionaries, Drawing-books, Games, Sports, &c., Heraldry, Genealogy
and Family History, Ireland, its History and Literature, Kent, its History and Topography,
Law, Music, its History and Theory, Painting and the Fine Arts, Shakspeariana, and a variety
of other branches of Literature comprised in upwards of 1500 articles.

John Miller, 43. Chandos Street, Trafalgar Square.

The ANGLO-SAXON for 1849 forms a handsome volume, price One Guinea.

London: T. Bosworth, 215. Regent Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published every Saturday, price 3d., or stamped, 4d., also in Monthly Parts. Part V. (for March),
price 1s. 3d., now ready. It contains communications from the most eminent Literary Men, and
is circulated largely amongst the best class of book-buyers.

In addition to the valuable matter which will be found in its columns, it contains notices
of Book Sales, Booksellers' Catalogues, and Lists of Books wanted to purchase,--features which
it is believed will be found valuable to Dealers in Old Books, as well as useful to Purchasers.

  SCALE OF PRICES.
                               £   s.  d.
  Six lines and under . . . .  0   5   0
  Above six lines, per line .  0   0   6
  Half a column . . . . . . .  0  16   0
  Column . . . . . . . . . .   1  10   0
  Page . . . . . . . . . . .   2  10   0

***Advertisements must be sent by the Wednesday previous to the Saturday on which they are
intended to appear; Notes and Queries being issued to the Trade on Friday afternoon.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

    "As good a first number as we remember to have seen. The
    Editor exhibits a phalanx of eminent assistants. * * There can
    be no doubt of the value of a Literary Medium of this peculiar
    kind."--Athenæum.

    "We like the plan much. * * We wish success to a
    publication which promises to be agreeable, intelligent, and
    useful."--Literary Gazette.

    "We feel great pleasure in welcoming into the literary
    world this publication, which promises to fill up a void
    that has constantly been lamented by every person engaged
    in any particular branch of study that required experience
    and research. * * It is a publication in which all literary
    persons must feel a deep interest, and that has our heartiest
    wishes for its success."--Morning Herald.

    "This is a new periodical, with a new idea, and one that
    deserves and will be sure to receive encouragement amongst
    scholars and readers really deserving that appellation. * *
    It is a capital idea; and every one who makes Notes or has
    Queries should buy it and contribute to it."--Weekly News.

    "That valuable publication The Notes and Queries, so
    auspiciously commenced."--New Bell's Messenger.

    "With whomsoever the idea of publishing this useful and
    interesting periodical first originated, that person is
    entitled to the thanks of every author, antiquary, and
    scholar, in the United Kingdom. * * We recommend, in all
    sincerity, The Notes and Queries to the attention of lovers
    of literature in general."--Morning Post.

London: George Bell, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Published, Parts 13 and 14, imperial quarto. Price 3s. each, tinted 4s.

RELIQUES OF ANCIENT ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE, from Drawings by John Johnson, Architect, F.S.A.,
Lithographed by Alfred Newman.

Contents, Part 13:--Hawton Church; Notts.--St. Mary's, Stamford--Aldwinkle, All Saints, Northamptonshire-Wellingborough
Church, Northamptonshire.

Part 14--Skelton Church, from the South-East and South-West--Rye House, Herts.--Holbeach Church,
Lincolnshire.

This Work is intended to embrace a series of examples of Ecclesiastical, Collegiate, and Domestic
Architecture. It will be completed in Twenty Monthly Parts, price 3s. each, tinted 4s.

       *       *       *       *       *