Notwithstanding his delight with the performance, he was not satisfied with the oratorio as
a whole. He made numerous changes and re-wrote portions of the work,--indeed there was scarcely
a movement that was not retouched. It is interesting to note in this connection that the beautiful
trio, "Lift thine Eyes," was originally a duet, and very different in character. The first
performance of the work in London took place April 16, 1847, when it was given by the Sacred
Harmonic Society. Her Majesty and Prince Albert were in attendance; and after the performance
the Prince sent to Mendelssohn the score which he had used in following the music, with the
following tribute written in it:--

  To the noble artist who, surrounded by the Baal-worship of corrupted
  art, has been able by his genius and science to preserve faithfully,
  like another Elijah, the worship of true art, and once more to accustom
  our ear, lost in the whirl of an empty play of sounds, to the pure
  notes of expressive composition and legitimate harmony; to the great
  master who makes us conscious of the unity of his conception through
  the whole maze of his creation, from the soft whispering to the mighty
  raging of the elements.

  Written in token of grateful remembrance by

                                                                 Albert.

  Buckingham Palace, April 24, 1847.

The text was mainly compiled from the First Book of Kings, and was translated, as has been
said, by Mr. Bartholomew. Hiller says that the idea of the oratorio was first suggested by
the verse in the nineteenth chapter, "Behold, the Lord passed by," and that Mendelssohn, while
reading it, remarked to him, "Would not that be splendid for an oratorio?" The prominent scenes
treated are the drought prophecy, the raising of the widow's son, the rival sacrifices, the
appearance of the rain in answer to Elijah's appeal, Jezebel's persecution of Elijah, the sojourn
in the desert, his return, his disappearance in the fiery chariot, and the finale, which reflects
upon the meaning of the sacred narrative. The scenes themselves indicate the dramatic character
of the oratorio. In this respect, indeed, Mendelssohn may almost be said to have created a
new school of oratorio construction. "Elijah" could be placed upon the stage with scenery,
costume, and properties as a sacred opera, and make a powerful impression,--almost as much
so, indeed, as Rossini's "Moses." Mendelssohn's own testimony on this point is interesting.
In a letter written  Nov. 2, 1838, to Pastor Julius Schubring, who was assisting him in the
preparation of the book, he says:--

  "I figured to myself Elijah as a grand, mighty prophet, such as we
  might again require in our own day,--energetic and zealous, but also
  stern, wrathful, and gloomy; a striking contrast to the court myrmidons
  and popular rabble,--in fact, in opposition to the whole world, and yet
  borne on angel's wings.... I am anxious to do justice to the dramatic
  element, and, as you say, no epic narrative must be introduced.... I
  would fain see the dramatic element more prominent, as well as more
  exuberant and defined,--appeal and rejoinder, question and answer,
  sudden interruptions, etc."

Again, on the 6th of December, he writes:--

  "In such a character as that of Elijah, like every one in the Old
  Testament (except, perhaps, Moses), it appears to me that the dramatic
  should predominate, the personages should be introduced as acting and
  speaking with fervor,--not, however, for Heaven's sake, to become mere
  musical pictures, but inhabitants of a positive, practical world such
  as we see in every chapter of the Old Testament; and the contemplative
  and pathetic element, which you desire, must be entirely conveyed to
  our apprehension by the words and the mood of the acting personages."

The introduction to the oratorio is prefaced by a brief but very impressive recitative,--Elijah's
prophecy of the drought; leading directly to the overture, a sombre, despairing prelude, picturing
the distress which is to follow as the curse settles down upon the streams and valleys. At
last the suffering is voiced in the opening chorus ("Help, Lord"), which, after three passionate
appeals, moves along in plaintive beauty, developing phrase after phrase of touching appeal,
and leading to a second chorus, with duet for two sopranos ("Lord, bow Thine Ear to our Prayer"),
the choral part of which is an old Jewish chant, sung alternately by the male and female voices
in unison. It is followed by Obadiah's lovely tenor aria, "If with all your Hearts," full of
tenderness and consolation. Again the People break out into a chorus of lamentation ("Yet doth
the Lord see it not"), which at the close develops into a chorale of graceful and serene beauty
("For He the Lord our God"). Then follows the voice of an Angel summoning Elijah to the brook
of Cherith, leading to the beautiful double quartet, "For He shall give His Angels Charge over
thee," the melody of which is simple, but full of animation, and worked up with a skilful effect.
Again the Angel summons Elijah to go to the Widow's house at Zarephath. The dramatic scene
of the raising of her son ensues, comprising a passionate song by the mother ("What have I
to do with thee?") and the noble declaration of the prophet, "Give me thy Son," and closing
with the reflective chorus, "Blessed are the Men who fear Him."

In the next scene we have the appearance of Elijah before Ahab, and the challenge of the Priests
of Baal to the sacrifice on Mount Carmel, set forth in vigorous recitative, accompanied by
short choral outbursts. At the words of Elijah, "Invoke your forest gods and mountain deities,"
the Priests of Baal break out into the stirring double-chorus, "Baal, we cry to thee," which
is fairly sensual and heathenish in its rugged, abrupt melodies, as compared with the Christian
music. At its close Elijah bids them "call him louder, for he is a god; he talketh, or he is
pursuing." Again they break out into a chorus of barbaric energy ("Hear our Cry, O Baal"),
in the intervals of which Elijah taunts them again and again with the appeal, "Call him louder."
The Priests renew their shouts, each time with increasing force, "pausing in vain for the reply,
and closing with a rapid, almost angry expostulation ("Hear and answer"). Then follows the
calm, dignified prayer of the prophet ("Lord God of Abraham"), succeeded by a simple, but beautiful
chorale ("Cast thy Burden upon the Lord"). It is the moment of quiet before the storm which
is to come. He calls for the fire to descend upon the altar, and a chorus of passionate energy
replies, "The Fire descends from Heaven," accompanied by imitative music, and closing with
a brief movement in broad harmony. In fierce recitative Elijah dooms the Priests of Baal to
destruction, and after a short choral reply sings the bass aria, "Is not His Word like a Fire?"--a
song of extraordinary difficulty, and requiring a voice of exceptional accuracy and power for
its proper performance. A lovely arioso for alto ("Woe unto them") follows Elijah's vigorous
declamation. These two arias are connecting links between the fire chorus and the rain scene
which ensues. Obadiah summons Elijah to help the People, and Elijah replies in an exquisite
little andante passage, repeated by the chorus ("Open the Heavens and send us Relief"). Then
follows a dialogue-passage between the prophet, the People, and the Youth, whom he bids "look
toward the sea,"--the most striking features of which are the responses of the Youth and the
orchestral climax as the heavens grow black and "the storm rushes louder and louder." As the
deluge of rain descends, the thankful People break out into a passionate shout of delight ("Thanks
be to God"), heard above the tempest in the orchestra. At first it is a brief expression of
gratitude. The voices come to a pause, and Elijah repeats the tribute of praise. Then all join
in a surging tumult of harmony, as fresh and delightful as was the pouring rain to the thirsty
land, voices and instruments vying with each other in joyful acclamations, until the end is
reached and the first part closes.

The second part opens with a brilliant soprano solo ("Hear ye, Israel"), beginning with a note
of warning, and then with trumpet obligato developing into another melody of an impetuous and
animated description ("I, I am He that comforteth"). The solo leads to the magnificent chorus,
"Be  not afraid," in which, after a short pause, the entire force of voices, orchestra, and
organ join in the sublime strain, sweeping on in broad, full harmony. There is a pause of the
voices for two bars, then they move on in a strong fugue ("Though Thousands languish and fall").
At its close they are all merged again in the grand announcement, "Be not afraid," delivered
with impetuosity, and ending with the same subject in powerful chorale form. The scene which
follows is intensely dramatic. The prophet rebukes Ahab and condemns the Baal worship. Jezebel
fiercely accuses Elijah of conspiring against Israel, and the People in sharp, impetuous phrases
declare, "He shall perish," leading to the chorus, "Woe to him!" After a few bars for the instruments,
Obadiah, in an exquisite recitative, counsels him to fly to the wilderness. In the next scene
we behold Elijah alone, and in a feeble but infinitely tender plaint he resigns himself. It
is hard to conceive anything grander and yet more pathetic than this aria, "It is enough,"
in which the prophet prays for death. A few bars of tenor recitative tell us that, wearied
out, he has fallen asleep ("See, now he sleepeth beneath a juniper-tree in the wilderness,
and there the angels of the Lord encamp round about all them that fear Him"). It introduces
the trio of the Angels, "Lift thine Eyes to the Mountains," sung without accompaniment,--one
of the purest, loveliest, and most delightful of all vocal trios. An exquisite chorus ("He
watching over Israel") follows, in which the second theme, introduced by the tenors ("Shouldst
thou, walking in Grief"), is full of tender beauty; the trio and chorus are the perfection
of dream-music. At its close the Angel awakes Elijah, and once more we hear his pathetic complaint,
"O Lord, I have labored in vain; oh, that I now might die!" In response comes an aria of celestial
beauty, sung by the Angel ("Oh, rest in the Lord"), breathing the very spirit of heavenly peace
and consolation,--an aria of almost matchless purity, beauty, and grace. Firmly and with a
certain sort of majestic severity follows the chorus, "He that shall endure to the end." The
next scene is one of the most impressive and dramatic in the oratorio. Elijah no longer prays
for death; he longs for the divine presence. He hears the voice of the Angel: "Arise now, get
thee without, stand on the mount before the Lord; for there His glory will appear and shine
on thee. Thy face must be veiled, for He draweth near." With great and sudden strength the
chorus announces: "Behold! God the Lord passed by." With equal suddenness it drops to a pianissimo,
gradually worked up in a crescendo movement, and we hear the winds "rending the mountains around;"
but once more in pianissimo it tells us "the Lord was not in the tempest." The earthquake and
the fire pass by, each treated in a similar manner; but the Lord was not in those elements.
Then, in gentle tones of ineffable sweetness, it declares, "After the fire there came a still,
small voice, ... and in that still, small voice onward came the Lord;" and onward sings the
chorus in low, sweet, ravishing tones to the end: "The Seraphim above Him cried one to the
other, Holy, holy, holy, is God the Lord!"--a double chorus of majestic proportions. Once more
Elijah goes on his way, no longer dejected, but clothed with "the strength of the Lord." His
aria, "For the Mountains shall depart," prepares us for the final climax. In strong accents
the chorus announce, "Then did Elijah the prophet break forth like a fire;" his words were
like "burning torches;" he overthrew kings; he stood on Sinai and heard the vengeance of the
future on Horeb. Then comes a significant pause. The basses begin, "And when the Lord would
take him away;" another brief pause, and the full chorus pictures in vivid color the coming
of the fiery chariot and the whirlwind by which he was caught up into heaven. The picturesqueness
and dramatic intensity of this splendid chorus can hardly be described in words. One more tenor
aria ("Then, then shall the Righteous shine") and a brief soprano solo introduce the chorus,
"Behold My servant." A beautiful quartet ("Oh! come, every one that thirsteth") follows, and
the massive fugue, "And then shall your Light break forth as the Light of the Morning," closes
this great masterpiece.

[6] Mr. Lockey was the tenor on this occasion; the part of Elijah was
  sung by Standigl.

                                Christus.

"Christus," which Mendelssohn intended as the third in the series with "Elijah" and "St. Paul,"
was left unfinished. The words were written by the Chevalier Bunsen and given to the composer
in 1844, before he began "Elijah." With his customary fastidiousness, he altered and rearranged
the text, and it was not until 1847, after "Elijah" was finished, that he touched the music.
At this time he was in delicate health, and had not recovered from the shock of his sister's
death. He sought consolation for his troubles and relief for his ailments among the mountains
of Switzerland. Part of his time was devoted to mountain-rambling, and the remainder to work
upon "Christus" and the opera "Loreley," neither of which he lived to finish.

It is interesting to note in this connection that before Mendelssohn settled upon "Christus,"
the subject of Saint Peter occupied his attention, although he still had the former in view
for later consideration. In a letter to his friend Schubring, written at Bingen-on-the-Rhine,
July 14, 1837, he says:--

  "I wish to ask your advice in a matter which is of importance to me,
  and I feel it will therefore not be indifferent to you either, having
  received so many proofs to the contrary from you. It concerns the
  selection of a subject of an oratorio which I intend to begin next
  winter. I am most anxious to have your counsels, as the best
  suggestions and contributions for the text of my 'St. Paul' came from
  you. Many very apparent reasons are in favor of choosing St. Peter as
  the subject,--I mean its being intended for the Düsseldorf Musical
  Festival at Whitsuntide, and the prominent position the feast of Whit
  Sunday would occupy in this subject. In addition to these grounds, I
  may add my wish (in connection with a greater plan for a later
  oratorio) to bring the two chief apostles and pillars of the Christian
  Church side by side in oratorios,--in short, that I should have a 'St.
  Peter' as well as a 'St. Paul.'"

Another extract from the same letter will show the keenness with which he analyzed his themes.
He writes:--

  "I need not tell you that there are sufficient internal grounds to make
  me prize the subject; and far above all else stands the outpouring of
  the Holy Ghost, which must form the central point or chief object. The
  question, therefore, is whether the place that Peter assumes in the
  Bible, divested of the dignity which he enjoys in the Catholic or
  Protestant Churches as a martyr, or the first Pope, etc.,--whether what
  is said of him in the Bible is alone and in itself sufficiently
  important to form the basis of a symbolical oratorio. For, according to
  my feeling, the subject must not be treated historically, however
  indispensable this was in the case of 'St. Paul.' In historic handling,
  Christ must appear in the earlier part of St. Peter's career; and where
  he appears, St. Peter could not lay claim to the chief interest. I
  think, therefore, it must be symbolical; though all the historical
  points might probably be introduced,--the betrayal and repentance, the
  keys of Heaven given him by Christ, his preaching at Pentecost,--not in
  an historical, but prophetic light, if I may so express myself, in
  close connection."

The project was never carried out; but the deep earnestness with which Mendelssohn considered
it shows how thoughtfully he must have devoted himself to the scheme which took its place.
Neither his letters nor his biographers throw much light upon the history of "Christus." Lampadius
says: "The oratorio was laid out upon a grand scale. It was to be in three parts,--the career
on earth, the descent into hell, the ascent to heaven." This plan must have been subsequently
changed, for the fragments of the oratorio are included in two parts, though they entirely
pertain to the earthly career. There are in all eight complete numbers,--three from the first
part, and five from the second. The first part opens with a soprano recitative ("When Jesus
our Lord was born in Bethlehem"), leading to a strong trio for tenor and two basses ("Say,
where is he born?"), the question of the Wise Men from the East. The chorus replies, "Then
shall a Star from Jacob come forth," closing with the old German chorale, "Wie schön leuchtet
der Morgenstern" ("How brightly shines the Morning Star!"), in plain, flowing harmony.

The fragments of the second part are in the form of the passion-music, and include five tenor
recitatives, narrating the dialogue between Pilate, the Elders and the People, and his final
order, "Take ye him and crucify him, for I cannot find a fault in him," and several short,
angry choruses of the Jews, accusing Jesus and calling for his death, leading to a beautiful
chorus for mixed voices ("Daughters of Zion, weep"), and closing with an effective chorale
for male voices in the genuine Bach style:--

  "He leaves his heavenly portals,
  Endures the grief of mortals,
    To raise our fallen race.
  O love beyond expressing!
  He gains for us a blessing,
    He saves us by redeeming grace.

  "When thou, O sun, art shrouded,
  By night or tempest clouded,
    Thy rays no longer dart;
  Though earth be dark and dreary,
  If, Jesus, thou art near me,
    'Tis cloudless day within my heart."

                                 MOZART.

Johann Chrysostomus Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, one of the most remarkable musical geniuses the
world has produced, and the only one of his contemporaries whose operas still hold the stage
with unimpaired freshness, was born at Salzburg, Jan. 27, 1756. He was the son of Leopold Mozart,
the Salzburgian Vice-Capellmeister, who gave him and his sister Nannerl their earliest instructions
in music, and with such good results that the children travelled and gave concerts with great
success. Before he was seven years of age, he had composed several pieces for piano and violin,
his earliest having been written at the age of five! At twelve he became court capellmeister
in Salzburg. After his musical travels he went to Vienna, and there began his real period of
classic activity, which commenced with "Idomeneus," reached its culmination in "Don Giovanni,"
and closed with the "Requiem,"--the "swan-song" of his wonderful life. In his brief life Mozart
composed more than fifty great works, besides hundreds of minor ones in every possible form
of musical writing. His greatest compositions may be classed in the following order: "Idomeneus"
(1780); "Entführung aus dem Serail" (1781); "Figaro's Hochzeit" ("The Marriage of Figaro"),
(1785); "Don Giovanni" (1787); "Cosi fan tutti," "Zauberflöte" ("The Magic Flute"), and "Titus"
(1790); and the "Requiem" (1791, the year of his death). The catalogue of Mozart's works is
an immense one, for his period of productivity was unusually long. From the age of five to
his death, there was not a year that was not crowded with his music. Besides his numerous operas,
of which only the more famous are given above, he wrote a large number of symphonies (of which
the "Jupiter" is now the best known), sonatas, concertos for all kinds of instruments, even
to musical-glasses, trios, quartets, quintets, and sextets for all possible combinations of
instruments, marches, fugues, masses, hymns, arias of extraordinary brilliancy,--many of them
written for his sister-in-law, Aloysia Weber, to whom at one time he was engaged,--liturgies,
cantatas, songs, and ballads, and indeed every form of music that is now known. His style was
studied by Beethoven, and so closely imitated that the music of his first period, if published
without autograph, would readily be attributed to Mozart. His style was so spontaneous and
so characteristic that it has been well said there is but one Mozart. The distinguishing trait
of his music is its rich melodic beauty and its almost ravishing sweetness. His melody pours
along in a bright, unbroken stream that sometimes even overflows its banks, so abundant is
it. It is peculiarly the music of youth and spring-time, exquisite in form, graceful in technique,
and delightful in expression. It was the source where all his immediate successors went for
their inspiration, though it lacked the maturity, majesty, and emotional depths which were
reached by such a Titan as Beethoven. Old as it is, and antiquated in form, especially as compared
with the work of the new schools, its perennial freshness, grace, and beauty have made it immortal.

                              The Requiem.

Mozart's "Requiem" was written in Vienna in 1791 and was left in an unfinished state by the
composer, who made suggestions and gave instructions as to its completion even upon his death-bed;
it was literally his swan-song. No work by any composer has given rise to more romantic stories
or more bitter discussion. It was long the popular belief that the "Requiem" was commissioned
by a dark, mysterious stranger, whose appearance impressed Mozart with the conviction that
he was a messenger of death; more than this, that he himself had been poisoned, and that he
was writing his own death-song, upon the order of some supernatural power. There was some foundation
for the belief, as the commission was given in a very mysterious manner, and Mozart's health
at that time was so delicate that he had had several premonitions of death. In his gloomy spirits
he even said to his wife that he was writing his own requiem. The actual circumstances attending
the commission, though they do not bear out the romantic versions of the story-tellers, are
yet of extraordinary interest.

The author of the commission was one Count von Walsegg, living in the village of Stuppach,
whose wife had died early in 1791. He was an amateur musician of vast ambitions and small accomplishments,
and had conceived the idea of purchasing a requiem anonymously from Mozart and passing it off
as his own work. In pursuance of his scheme he despatched his steward, named Leutgeb, a tall,
solemn, mysterious looking person, with an anonymous letter to Mozart, who at that time was
in absolute poverty, asking for the music and requesting him to name his own price,--stipulating,
however, that he should make no effort to discover the identity of his patron. The unsuspicious
Mozart accepted the proposition, after consulting with his wife. He was about to begin work
upon it at once, when he received a commission to write the opera of "Clemenza de Tito," in
honor of the Emperor Leopold's coronation. This occupied him several weeks, and when it was
completed he decided upon a visit to Baden. At the moment he was about to get into the carriage,
the mysterious stranger again appeared and inquired about the progress of the "Requiem." Mozart
excused himself, and replied that as soon as he returned he would begin the work; and the stranger
went away satisfied.

Mozart came back to Vienna in September; and after the completion of the "Magic Flute," and
its first performance, Nov. 30, 1791, he devoted himself assiduously to the "Requiem," though
it served only to increase his gloom. One day he remarked to his wife: "I well know that I
am writing this requiem for myself. My own feelings tell me that I shall not last long. No
doubt some one has given me poison; I cannot get rid of the thought." It is now known that
this suspicion was only the result of his morbid thoughts; but when it was publicly uttered,
most unjust accusations were made against his rival, Salieri, embittering the old composer's
life until its close. As the work progressed, his gloom increased. "The day before his death,"
Nohl says, "he desired the score to be brought to him in bed, and he sang his part, taking
the alto voice. Benedict Shack took the soprano, his brother-in-law, Hofer, the tenor, and
Gerl the bass. They had got through the various parts to the first bars of the 'Lacrymosa,'
when Mozart suddenly burst into tears and laid aside the score." His sister-in-law has left
an account of his last moments. She writes:

  "As I approached his bed, he called to me: 'It is well you are here;
  you must stay to-night and see me die.' I tried as far as I was able to
  banish this impression; but he replied: 'The taste of death is already
  on my tongue, I taste death; and who will be near to support my
  Constance if you go away?' Süssmayer [his favorite pupil] was standing
  by the bedside, and on the counterpane lay the 'Requiem,' concerning
  which Mozart was still speaking and giving directions. He now called
  his wife and made her promise to keep his death secret for a time from
  every one but Albrechtsberger, that he might thus have an advantage
  over other candidates for the vacant office of capellmeister to St.
  Stephen's. His desire in this respect was gratified, for
  Albrechtsberger received the appointment. As he looked over the pages
  of the 'Requiem' for the last time, he said, with tears in his eyes:
  'Did I not tell you I was writing this for myself?'"

Mozart's widow, after his death, fearing that she might have to refund the money advanced for
the work, induced Süssmayer, who was thoroughly familiar with Mozart's ideas, to complete it.
He did so, and the copy was delivered to Count von Walsegg, who did not hesitate to publish
it as his own. Süssmayer, however, had kept a copy, and after completion published it; and
in a letter to the publishers set up a claim to the instrumentation of the "Requiem," "Kyrie,"
"Dies Iræ," and "Domine," and to the whole of the "Sanctus," "Benedictus," and "Agnus Dei."
The publication of Süssmayer's letter provoked a controversy which has raged from that day
to this. The ablest critics and musicians in Europe have taken part in it. Nearly all of them
have defended Mozart's authorship; but after half a century's discussion it still remains in
doubt how far Süssmayer participated in the completion of the work as it now stands. The bulk
of the evidence, however, favors the theory that Süssmayer only played the part of a skilful
copyist, in writing out the figurings which Mozart had indicated, carrying out ideas which
had been suggested to him, and writing parts from the sketches which the composer had made.
One of the most pertinent suggestions made in the course of this controversy is that of Rockstro,
who says:--

  "Some passages, though they may perhaps strengthen Süssmayer's claim to
  have filled in certain parts of the instrumentation, stand on a very
  different ground to those which concern the composition of whole
  movements. The 'Lacrymosa' is quite certainly one of the most beautiful
  movements in the whole 'Requiem'--and Mozart is credited with having
  only finished the first eight bars of it! Yet it is impossible to study
  this movement carefully without arriving at Professor Macfarren's
  conclusion that 'the whole was the work of one mind, which mind was
  Mozart's.' Süssmayer may have written it out, perhaps; but it must have
  been from the recollection of what Mozart had played or sung to him,
  for we know that this very movement occupied the dying composer's
  attention almost to the last moment of his life. In like manner Mozart
  may have left no Urschriften (sketches) of the 'Sanctus,'
  'Benedictus,' and 'Agnus Dei,'--though the fact that they have never
  been discovered does not prove that they never existed,--and yet he may
  have played and sung these movements often enough to have given
  Süssmayer a very clear idea of what he intended to write. We must
  either believe that he did this, or that Süssmayer was as great a
  genius as he; for not one of Mozart's acknowledged masses will bear
  comparison with the 'Requiem,' either as a work of art or the
  expression of a devout religious feeling. In this respect it stands
  almost alone among instrumental masses, which nearly always sacrifice
  religious feeling to technical display."

After an introduction, which gives out the subject of the opening movement,--a slow, mournful,
solemn theme,--the first number begins with the impressive strain, "Requiem æternam dona eis,"
which gradually brightens in the phrase, "Et Lux perpetua," and reaches a splendid burst of
exultation in the "Te decet hymnus," of which Oublichieff, the Russian critic, says: "One seems
to hear the voice of an archangel, and Saint Cecilia herself with her organ sounding a fugued
accompaniment which the most laborious efforts of mortals never could have power to reach."
After a repetition of the "Requiem æternam," the number closes with the "Kyrie eleison," a
slow and complicated fugue, which is sublime in its effect, though very sombre in color, as
befits the subject.

The next number is the "Dies Iræ," written for chorus in simple counterpoint, and very dramatic
in its character, the orchestral part being constantly vigorous, impetuous, and agitated, and
reaching intense energy on the verse, "Quantus tremor est futurus," the whole presenting a
vivid picture in tones of the terrors of the last judgment. In the "Tuba mirum" the spirit
of the music changes from the church form to the secular. It is written for solo voices, ending
in a quartet. The bass begins with the "Tuba mirum," set to a portentous trombone accompaniment;
then follow the tenor ("Mors stupebit"), the alto ("Judex ergo"), and the soprano ("Quid sum
miser"). This number is particularly remarkable for the manner in which the music is shaded
down from the almost supernatural character of the opening bass solo to the beauty and sweetness
of the soprano solo. From this extraordinary group we pass to the sublime chorus, "Rex tremendæ
majestatis," once more in the church style, which closes with the prayer, "Salva me," in canonical
form. With rare skill is this last appeal of humanity woven out of the thunder-crashes of sound
in the judgment-music.

The "Dies Iræ" is followed by the "Recordare," written, like the "Tuba mirum," as a quartet
for solo voices. The vocal parts are in canon form and are combined with marvellous skill,
relieved here and there with solos in purely melodic style, as in the "Quærens me," while the
orchestral part is an independent fugue, with several subjects worked up with every form of
instrumental embellishment, the fugue itself sometimes relieved by plain accompaniment. The
whole is an astonishing piece of contrapuntal skill, apparently inexhaustible in its scientific
combinations, and yet never for an instant losing its deep religious significance. Once more
the orchestral part is full of agitation and even savage energy in the "Confutatis maledictis,"
as it accompanies a powerful double chorus, closing at last in a majestic prayer ("Oro supplex
et acclinis"), in which all the voices join in magnificent harmony.

The "Lacrymosa" is the most elegant and poetically conceived movement in the "Requiem." It
begins in a delicate, graceful, and even sensuous manner, which gradually broadens and strengthens,
and at last develops into a crescendo of immense power, reaching its climax on the words "Judicandus
homo reus." Then it changes to a plaintive prayer ("Huic ergo parce Deus"), and closes in a
cloud of gloom in the "Dona eis requiem." The next number ("Domine Jesu Christe") is in pure
church form, beginning with a motet by chorus in solid harmony, which runs into a fugue on
the words "Ne absorbeat eas Tartarus," followed by a quartet of voices regularly fugued, leading
to another great fugue on the passage, "Quam olim Abrahæ," which closes the number in a burst
of sacred inspiration. The "Domine" is followed by the "Hostias," a lovely choral melody which
leads to the "Sanctus," a sublime piece of harmony closing with a fugued "Hosanna." The "Benedictus,"
which follows it, is a solo quartet plaintive and solemn in character, but full of sweet and
rich melodies magnificently accompanied.

The "Agnus Dei" closes the work, a composition of profound beauty, with an accompaniment of
mournful majesty, developing into a solemn, almost funereal strain on the words "Dona eis requiem,"
and closing with the fugue of the opening "Kyrie" on the words "Lux æterna."  "Written under
the inspiration of death" might well be inscribed on this great monument of musical skill,
this matchless requiem of awful majesty and divine beauty. In its own unity, its perfection
of form and design, its astonishing skill, from the opening fugue of the "Kyrie" to its repetition
in the finale, may be found the proof that Mozart and no other wrote the entire score, and
that every thought and idea in it are the inspired work of the dying master.

                                 PAINE.

John K. Paine, one of the very few really eminent American composers, was born at Portland,
Me., Jan. 9, 1839. He studied the piano, organ, and composition with Kotzschmar in that city,
and made his first public appearance as an organist, June 25, 1857. During the following year
he went to Germany and studied the organ, composition, and instrumentation with Haupt and other
masters in Berlin. He returned to this country in 1861 and gave several concerts, in which
he played many of the organ works of the best writers for the first time in the United States.
Shortly after his return he was appointed instructor of music in Harvard University, and in
1876 was honored with the elevation to a professorship and given a regular chair. He is best
known as a composer, and several of his works have been paid the rare compliment of performance
in Germany, among them his Mass in D and all his symphonies. The former was given at the Berlin
Singakademie in 1867, under his own direction. Among his principal compositions are the oratorio
"St. Peter;" the Mass in D; the Centennial Hymn, set to Whittier's poem and sung at the opening
of the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition; the overture to "As You Like It;" "The Tempest,"
in the style of a symphonic poem; the symphony in C minor and "Spring" symphony; besides numerous
sonatas, fantasies, preludes, songs, and arrangements for organ and piano. His larger orchestral
works have been made familiar to American audiences by Mr. Theodore Thomas's band, and have
invariably met with success. His style of composition is large, broad, and dignified, based
upon the best classic models, and evinces a high degree of musical scholarship.

                               St. Peter.

"St. Peter," Mr. Paine's only oratorio,--and from the highest standpoint it may be said the
only oratorio yet produced in this country,--was written in 1872-73, and first performed at
Portland, Me., in June of the latter year, under the composer's own direction. The solos were
sung by Mrs. Wetherbee, Miss Adelaide Phillipps, Mr. George L. Osgood, and Mr. Rudolphsen.
It was again produced with great success at the third Triennial Festival of the Boston Handel
and Haydn Society, May 9, 1874, with Mrs. J. Houston West, Mr. Nelson Varley, Miss Phillipps,
and Mr. Rudolphsen in the principal parts.

The establishment of Christianity, illustrated by the four principal scenes in the life of
St. Peter, forms the subject of the oratorio. It is divided into two parts, and these are subdivided
as follows: Part I. The Divine Call; The Denial and Repentance. Part II. The Ascension; Pentecost.
The overture, a short adagio movement expressive of the unsettled spiritual condition of the
world prior to the advent of Christianity, leads directly to the opening chorus, "The Time
is fulfilled," which develops not only this subject, but also a second, "Repent, and believe
the glad Tidings of God," in a masterly manner. The chorus, written in a very noble style,
is followed by the tenor recitative, which describes the divine call of our Lord to Simon and
Andrew as "He walked by the Sea of Galilee." It prepares the way for a soprano aria ("The Spirit
of the Lord is upon me") which announces the glad tidings they are commissioned to deliver.
Twelve male voices, representing the Disciples, accept the call in the chorus, "We go before
the Face of the Lord," which is beautifully accompanied by and interwoven with the full chorus,
closing with the smoothly flowing chorale, "How lovely shines the Morning Star." Then ensues
the first dramatic scene. To the question of the Saviour, "Who do men say that I am," the twelve
male voices first reply, followed by Peter in a few bars of very effective recitative, "Thou
art the Christ." A tenor arioso, declaring the foundation of the Church "upon this rock," is
followed by a noble and exquisitely chaste bass aria for Peter ("My Heart is glad and my Spirit
rejoiceth"), the scene ending with the powerful chorus, "The Church is built upon the Foundation
of the Apostles and Prophets." The next scene, "The Denial and Repentance," opens with the
warning to Peter that he will deny his Lord, and his remonstrance, "Though I should die with
thee," which is repeated by the Apostles. These brief passages are followed by a very pathetic
aria for tenor ("Let not your Heart be troubled") and a beautifully worked-up quartet and chorus
("Sanctify us through Thy Truth"). A contralto solo announces the coming of "Judas with a great
multitude," leading Jesus away to the High Priest, and is followed by the very expressive chorus,
"We hid our Faces from him." The scene of the denial is very dramatic, the alternating accusations
of the servants and the denials of Peter being treated with great skill; it closes with a very
effective contralto recitative, illustrating the sad words: "And while he yet spake, the cock
crew. And the Lord turned, and looked on Peter; and he remembered the word of the Lord, and
he went out and wept bitterly." An orchestral interlude follows, in the nature of a lament,
a minor adagio full of deep feeling. It is followed by an aria for Peter ("O God, my God, forsake
me not"), which is cast in the same strain of lamentation as the orchestral number which precedes
and really introduces it. At its close a chorus of Angels, sopranos, and altos, with harp accompaniment
("Remember, remember from whence thou art fallen"), is heard warning Peter, augmented on the
introduction of the second subject ("And he that overcometh shall receive a Crown of Life")
by the full chorus. This chorus is followed by a beautiful aria for alto ("The Lord is faithful
and righteous to forgive our Sins"); and then a massive chorus, which is fairly majestic ("Awake,
thou that sleepest"), closes the first part. The ascension scene is accompanied by graceful
and expressive recitatives for tenor and bass, followed by a tenor arioso ("Go ye and teach")
and a short soprano recitative ("And he lifted up his Hands"), leading to the full melodious
chorus, "If ye then be risen." The next number is an impressive soprano solo ("O Man of God"),
in which Peter is admonished "to put on the whole armor of God and fight the good fight." A
beautifully written quartet ("Feed the Flock of God") closes the scene of the ascension. The
last scene opens with a tenor solo describing the miracle of Pentecost, set to an extremely
vigorous and descriptive accompaniment. It is followed by the chorus, "The Voice of the Lord,"
which is one of the most effective in the whole work, though not constructed in the massive
style of those which close the two parts. A contralto recitative links this chorus to its successor,
"Behold! are not all these who speak Galileans?" After a brief soprano recitative, Peter has
another vigorous solo ("Ye Men of Judæa"), which is as dramatic in its style and almost as
descriptive in its accompaniment as the opening tenor solo of this scene. A reflective aria
for alto ("As for Man") follows it, and bass and tenor recitatives lead up to the eagerly questioning
chorus of the people, "Men and Brethren." The answer comes from Peter and the Apostles, "For
the Promise is to you." An intricate chorus ("This is the Witness of God"), closing with a
chorale ("Praise to the Father"), leads to the finale, which comprises the chorus, "Beloved,
let us love one another," written for bass solo, tenors, and basses (the Disciples), and full
chorus; an effective duet for soprano and tenor ("Sing unto God"); and the final majestic chorus
("Great and marvellous are thy Works").

                                ROSSINI.

Gioachino Antonio Rossini, the father of the modern Italian school of opera, was born Feb.
29, 1792, at Pesaro, in the Romagna. His father was an accomplished musician, and his mother
a professional singer, so that he was brought up in a musical atmosphere. Even as a boy he
sang with his mother in the theatre. He first studied with Mattei, and later with Martini.
His first opera, "Demetrio e Polibio," was brought out at Rome in 1812, and before he had concluded
his life-work, more than forty of his operas had been given in almost every part of Europe,--a
crowning result of labor and contemporaneous fame not often enjoyed by composers. His "Tancredi,"
which was produced for the first time at Venice in 1813, was the opera which made him famous,
and its remarkable success spread his reputation far and wide. In 1815 appeared "L' Italiana
in Algeri" and "Aureliano in Palmira;" in 1816, "Elisabetta," "Otello," and his splendid work
"The Barber of Seville," which, though his masterpiece, is said to have been written in fourteen
days; in 1817, "La Cenerentola," "La Gazza Ladra," and "Armida;" and in 1819, "Ricciardo e
Zoraïde," "La Donna del Lago," and many others. From 1815 to 1822 Rossini was under the "management"
of the impresario Barbaja in Naples, who had much difficulty in keeping him to the work of
composition, his facility in writing often leading him to defer work until it was the very
eve of performance. In 1823, under the auspices of Barbaja, and with the assistance of the
prima donna, Colbran, whom Rossini married about this time, his opera "Zelmira" and others
of his works were given with such brilliant success as to raise his aspirations for a wider
and more promising field of labor. In the year 1823 he went to Paris and London, finally settling
in the former city, where he not only began a new grand opera, but also gave himself to the
study and development of orchestral music and the encouragement of artists. His home was the
Mecca of singers, and, like Liszt's at Weimar, the centre of art influences. The new work was
"William Tell," which was first brought out in Paris in 1829. It was his last important effort.
It met with only temporary success, though it enjoys to-day a reputation almost equal to that
of the "Barber." His most celebrated work in sacred music is the "Stabat Mater," which, though
written in operatic style and very brilliant in coloring, has retained its place in popular
favor, and is to-day as eagerly sought for by artists and the public as it was in his own day.
Among his other sacred works is "Moses in Egypt,"--originally written as an oratorio for the
San Carlo in Naples, and brought out there in 1818, though subsequently recast and provided
with a revised libretto for the Paris Grand Opera in 1827. The "Prayer" from this work has
a world-wide popularity. During the latter years of his life Rossini gave up composition entirely,--in
part because of the eventual failure of his "William Tell,"--and enjoyed the fruits of his
labors at his beautiful villa in Passy. He died Nov. 14, 1868. His sacred works, besides those
already mentioned, are a few Italian oratorios, now unknown, three choruses, "Faith, Hope,
and Charity," the "Petite Messe Solenelle," a "Tantum Ergo," a "Quoniam," and an "O Salutaris."

                              Stabat Mater.

The great Stabat Maters in the musical world are those of Palestrina, Pergolesi, Haydn, Steffani,
Clari, Astorga, Winter, Neukomm, Rossini, and the one recently written by the Bohemian composer,
Dvorák. Of all these no one has been so popular as that of Rossini, nor made the world so familiar
with the text of the Virgin's Lamentation. After the failure of "William Tell," Rossini abandoned
opera-writing, though he had a contract with the Grand Opera at Paris for four more works,
and contemplated taking up the subject of Faust. "William Tell" was his last work for the stage;
but before his absolute retirement he was to produce a work destined to add to his fame. In
1832 his friend Aguado induced him to compose a "Stabat Mater" for the Spanish minister, Don
Valera, which was not intended to be made public. Before its completion he fell ill, and Tadolini
wrote the last four numbers. The work was dedicated to Valera, with the understanding that
it should always be retained by him. Nine years afterwards Valera died, and Rossini learned
that his heirs had sold the work to a Paris publisher for two thousand francs. He at once claimed
the copyright and brought an action, in which he was successful. He then composed four new
numbers in place of those written by Tadolini, and sold the work complete to the publisher,
Troupenas, for six thousand francs. The latter sold the right of performance for a limited
time to the Escudiers for eight thousand francs, and they in turn sold it to the Théâtre Italien
for twenty thousand. Its first complete performance was at the Salle Ventadour, Jan. 7, 1842,
Grisi, Albertazzi, Mario, and Tamburini taking the principal parts.

A brief but brilliant orchestral prelude leads to the opening chorus, "Stabat Mater dolorosa,"
arranged for solos and chorus, and very dramatic in style, especially in its broad, melodious
contrasts. It is followed by the tenor solo, "Cujus Animam," which is familiar to every concert-goer,--a
clear-cut melody free of embellishment, but very brilliant and even jubilant in character,
considering the nature of the text. The next number ("Quis est Homo"), for two sopranos, is
equally familiar. It is based upon a lovely melody, first given out by the first soprano, and
then by the second, after which the two voices carry the theme through measure after measure
of mere vocal embroidery, closing with an extremely brilliant cadenza in genuine operatic style.
The fourth number is the bass aria "Pro peccatis," the two themes in which are very earnest
and even serious in character, and come nearer to the church style than any other parts of
the work. It is followed by a beautifully constructed number ("Eia Mater"), a bass recitative
with chorus, which is very strong in its effect. The sixth number is a lovely quartet ("Sancta
Mater"), full of variety in its treatment, and closing with full, broad harmony. After a short
solo for soprano ("Fac ut Portem"), the climax is reached in the "Inflammatus,"--a brilliant
soprano obligato with powerful choral accompaniment. The solo number requires a voice of exceptional
range, power, and flexibility; with this condition satisfied, the effect is intensely dramatic,
and particularly fascinating by the manner in which the solo is set off against the choral
background. A beautiful unaccompanied quartet in broad, plain harmony, "Quando Corpus," leads
to the showy fugued "Amen" which closes the work.

Unquestionably the "Stabat Mater" is one of the most popular of all the minor sacred compositions;
and the secret lies on the surface: it is to be found in the delightful and fascinating melodies,
which are strewn so thickly through it, as well as in the graceful bravura, which was so characteristic
of Rossini, and which when delivered by accomplished artists is very captivating to a popular
audience. As to its sacred form, it is as far from the accepted style of church music as Berlioz's
or Verdi's requiems. Indeed, Rossini himself remarked to Hiller that he wrote it in the "mezzo
serio" style. In connection with this matter one or two criticisms will be of interest. Rossini's
biographer, Sutherland Edwards, says: "The 'Stabat Mater' was composed, as Raphael's Virgins
were painted, for the Roman Catholic Church, which at once accepted it, without ever suspecting
that Rossini's music was not religious." The remark, however, would be more pertinent were
it not for the fact that the Church itself has not always been a good critic of its own music,
or a good judge of what its music should be, as Liszt discovered when he went to Rome full
of his purposes of reform in the musical service. Heine, in a letter to the "Allgemeine Zeitung"
in 1842, replying to certain German criticisms, went so far as to say,--

  "The true character of Christian art does not reside in thinness and
  paleness of the body, but in a certain effervescence of the soul, which
  neither the musician nor the painter can appropriate to himself either
  by baptism or study; and in this respect I find in the 'Stabat' of
  Rossini a more truly Christian character than in the 'Paulus' ['St.
  Paul'] of Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy,--an oratorio which the
  adversaries of Rossini point to as a model of Christian style."

It will hardly be claimed, however, even by Heine's friends, that this sweeping statement is
either just to Mendelssohn or true of Rossini. Perhaps they will also concede that Heine was
not a very good judge of Christianity in any of its aspects, musical or otherwise. The veteran
Moscheles in one of his letters criticizes the work very pertinently.  He says,--

  "It is, as you may imagine, a model of 'singableness' (if I may say
  so); but it is not sufficiently church music to my taste. His solitary
  fugue is clumsy. The criticisms on the work are very various. Some
  agree with me; but the majority delight in the captivating Italian
  phrases, which I admire too, but which I cannot think are in the right
  place."

He might have added, "Because they are the phrases of 'Semiramide,' 'Tancredi,' and the 'Barber.'"
There is scarcely a number of the "Stabat Mater" which might not be detached from it and reset
in one of Rossini's operas without doing violence to whatever of the real religious style it
may be supposed, or was intended, to have. The "Stabat Mater" music would be captivatingly
beautiful in any setting.

                               RUBINSTEIN.

Anton Gregor Rubinstein was born, Nov. 30, 1829, at the village of Wechwotynetz, in Russia.
His parents, who were in moderate circumstances, moved to Moscow during his infancy, and in
that city he received his first musical instruction. His mother gave him lessons at the age
of four, with the result that by the time he was six she was unable to teach him anything more.
He then studied the piano with Alexander Villoing, a pupil of John Field. His first composition
appeared in his twelfth year, and soon his songs and two and four hand piano-pieces began to
attract the attention of musicians. In 1840 Villoing took him to Paris and placed him in the
Conservatory, where he attracted the attention of Liszt, Chopin, and Thalberg. He remained
in that city eighteen months, devoting himself to unremitting study, and then made some professional
tours, in which he met with extraordinary success, particularly in England. From that country
he went to Holland and Sweden, everywhere meeting with an enthusiastic reception. In 1844 his
parents removed to Berlin, and he was placed under Dehn, the famous contrapuntist, to study
composition, his brother Nicholas being a companion in his work. The father dying in 1846,
the mother and Nicholas returned to Russia, leaving Anton alone. During the next two years
he taught music in Pressburg and Vienna, and in the latter part of 1848 went back to Russia.
About this time he received an honorary musical appointment from the Grand-Duchess Hélène.
For eight years he studied and wrote in St. Petersburg, and at the end of that time had accumulated
a mass of manuscripts destined to make his name famous all over Europe, while his reputation
as a skilful pianist was already world-wide. He visited England again in 1857, and the next
year returned home and settled in St. Petersburg, about which time he was made Imperial Concert
Director, with a life-pension. At this period in his career he devoted himself to the cause
of music in Russia. His first great work was the foundation of the Conservatory in the above
city in 1862, of which he remained principal until 1867. He also founded the Russian Musical
Society in 1861, and in 1869 was decorated by the Czar. In 1870 he directed the Philharmonic
and Choral Societies of Vienna, and shortly afterwards made another tour, during which, in
1872, he came to this country with the eminent violinist Wieniawsky, as will be well remembered.
His visit here was marked by a succession of ovations. No other pianist ever achieved such
a wonderful success, not only among musicians, but among the people of all classes. Musicians
were astounded at his remarkable knowledge, while musical and unmusical people alike were carried
off their feet by the whirlwind-style of his playing. It was full of grace, nobility, breadth,
and dignity; but it combined with these qualities a fire, an intensity, and a passion which
sometimes invested the piano with orchestral effects, and again transformed it into an instrument
that wept, laughed, sang, and danced. His power was irresistible and electric. As a composer
he ranks very high. His greatest works are the Ocean Symphony, Dramatic Symphony, and a character
sketch for grand orchestra called "Ivan the Terrible;" his operas, "Children of the Heath,"
"Feramors," "Nero," "The Maccabees," "Dimitri Donskoi," and the "Demon;" the oratorios "Paradise
Lost" and "Tower of Babel;" and a long and splendid catalogue of chamber, salon, and concert
music, besides some beautiful songs which are great favorites in the concert-room.

                           The Tower of Babel.

"The Tower of Babel," a sacred opera, as Rubinstein entitles it, was written in 1870, the text,
which is somewhat of a travesty on sacred history, by Julius Rodenberg. An English critic very
pertinently says: "One item alone in all the multitude of details crowded by Herr Rodenberg
into his canvas has any foundation in fact. He adopts the theory that there really was a tower
of Babel, and all the rest he founds on conjecture." In point of fact, the anachronisms are
numerous enough to make the text almost a burlesque. Nimrod, the mighty hunter, is made the
chief builder of the tower, which is supposed to be in process of erection as an insult to
the Deity. Abraham appears upon the scene (many years before he was born), and rebukes Nimrod
for his presumption; whereupon the hunter-king orders "the shepherd," as he is called, to be
thrown into a fiery furnace, after the manner of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. The angels
watch over the patriarch, and he comes out of the fire unharmed. Some of the people standing
by ascribe the miracle to Baal, some to Dagon, some to Ashtaroth, and a few to Jehovah, and
at last get into a quarrel with each other. Nimrod interposes his authority, and orders them
to their work on the tower again. Soon the heavens cloud over, and a storm is seen approaching.
Abraham prophesies destruction, and Nimrod orders him to be seized and hurled from the summit
of the tower; but before his commands can be executed, a thunderbolt strikes it and crumbles
it into a heap of shapeless stones. While Abraham exults over the destruction, the dispersion
of the three races, the Shemites, Hamites, and Japthides, occurs. Nimrod laments over the result
of his folly, and at last acknowledges the authority of the Divine Power, and thus the story ends.

The dramatis personæ are Nimrod (bass), Abraham (tenor), Master Workman (baritone), four Angels
(boys' voices), the choruses by Nimrod's followers, the People, Angels, and Demons. The overture
is a confused, formless number, indicating the darkness. In the beginning there is no clear
musical idea; but at last the subject assumes definite form as the dawn breaks and the Master
Workman announces the sunrise and calls the People to their work, in the recitative, "Awake!
ye Workers, awake!" The summons is followed by the chorus, "To work," in which the vocal part
is noisy, broken, and somewhat discordant, representing the hurry and bustle of a crowd of
working-men,--with which, however, the orchestra and organ build up a powerful theme. The song
of the Master Workman is also interwoven, and the chorus is finally developed with great vigor
and splendid dramatic effect. Nimrod now appears, and in a triumphant outburst ("Stately rises
our Work on high") contemplates the monument to his greatness now approaching completion. Abraham
rebukes him ("How, Mortal, canst thou reach His Presence?"). The scene at this point is full
of dramatic vigor. Nimrod hurls imprecations at Abraham, followed by strongly contrasting choruses
of the angry People and protecting Angels, which lead up to the mixed chorus of the People,
indicating the confusion of tongues as they severally ascribe the escape of Abraham from the
furnace-fire to Baal, Dagon, Ashtaroth, and Jehovah, and closing with tumultuous dissension,
which is quelled by Nimrod. The effect of the Angels' voices in the hurlyburly is exceedingly
beautiful, and the accompaniments, particularly those of the fire-scene, are very vivid. Nimrod's
order to resume work on the tower is followed by the angelic strain, "Come on! let us down
to Earth now hasten." Once more the Builders break out in their barbaric chorus, "To work,"
followed by the portentous outburst of the People, "How the Face of Heaven is o'ershadowed!"
In a vigorous solo Abraham replies, "No! 'tis not Vapor nor Storm-clouds that gather." There
is a final controversy between Abraham and Nimrod, and as the latter orders the patriarch to
be thrown from the tower, the storm breaks, and amid the shrieks of the chorus ("Horror! horror")
and the tremendous clangor of organ and orchestra on the theme already developed in the opening,
the tower is destroyed.

The tumultuous scene is followed by Nimrod's lament ("The Tower whose lofty Height was like
my State"), a bass aria of great power, and reaching a splendid climax. Abraham, in an exultant
strain ("The Lord is strong in Might"), proclaims God's purpose to scatter the people. The
most picturesque scene in the work now occurs,--the dispersal of the Shemites, Hamites, and
Japthides, typified by orchestral marches and choruses of a barbaric cast. The stage directions
at this point indicate that the three choruses "must be sung behind the scenes, while dissolving
views present to the audience the emigration of the three great human races,"--an effect which
is also made in the last act of Goldmark's "Queen of Sheba." The first chorus, that of the
Shemites, which is sung in unison, is taken from some of the ancient music in the ritual of
the Jewish Synagogue, that used on the eve of the Day of Atonement. The other two choruses
are also Oriental in color and rhythm, and give a very striking effect to this part of the
work. The chorus of Angels ("Thus by Almighty Power of God") proclaims the completion of the
work, and two long solos by Abraham and Nimrod lead up to the final choruses of the Angels,
People, and Demons, worked up in very powerful style, and in the finale uniting the themes
which originally introduced the chorus of the People and the Angels, and the subject of the
darkness in the overture. The tableau is thus described in the stage directions: "The stage
is divided into three horizontal compartments. In the middle is the earth; in the upper is
the throne of the Almighty, surrounded by all the heavenly powers; in the lower, hell, Satan
seated on his throne, surrounded by all the infernal deities."

                             Paradise Lost.

The oratorio "Paradise Lost" was first produced in Vienna in 1859 by the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde,
a choral organization conducted by Rubinstein during his stay in that city. Like "The Tower
of Babel," it is entitled by the composer "a sacred opera," though it is in genuine oratorio
form, and usually classed as such. The text is a very free transcription from Milton. The work
is divided into three parts; but as the second is usually the only part given by oratorio societies,
our sketch will be principally confined to that. The first part mainly concerns the defeat
of Satan's forces by the legions of Heaven, and is remarkable for its vigorous instrumental
treatment.

The second part is devoted to the creation, and is composed principally of choruses introduced
by a few bars of recitative, invariably for the tenor, who acts the part of narrator. The first
seven of these describe the creation of the earth. After a characteristic introduction, the
tenor declares "Chaos, be ended!" whereupon the Angels sing a glowing tribute to light ("Upspringing,
the darkened Air broke forth into radiant Brightness"). Again the tenor and chorus in a brief
number describe the firmament. The third chorus ("Fierce raged the Billows") pictures the division
of land and water with great vigor, accompanied by imitative instrumentation which indicates
Rubinstein's skill as a water-painter quite as clearly as his great Ocean Symphony. In the
fourth and fifth choruses the music vividly tells the story of the creation of the trees and
plants and the appearance of the stars in the firmament. The sixth ("Gently beaming, softly
streaming"), in which the Angels rejoice in the soft radiance of the moon, is short, but exceedingly
tender and beautiful. In the seventh ("All around rose the Sound of the Strife of Life"), we
have a description of the awakening of life characterized  by extraordinary  descriptive  power.
This group of choruses, each one thoroughly fresh, original, and picturesque in its description,
brings us up to the creation of man, which is the finest portion of the whole work. It begins
with a long tenor recitative, "In all her Majesty shines on high the Heaven," reaching a fine
crescendo at the close ("And lo! it was Man"). The Angels reply with their heavenly greeting,
"Hail to Thee, O Man." A short dialogue follows between Adam and the Narrator, and the Angels
renew their greeting, this time to Eve. This leads up to a lovely duet between Adam and Eve
("Teach us then to come before Thee"), which is very gracefully constructed, and tenderly melodious
in character.  The final number is a chorus of the Angels ("Clear resounded the Trumpets of
Heaven"), beginning in broad, flowing, jubilant harmony, then developing into a fugue on the
words "Praise the Almighty One," built up on a subject full of exultation and grandeur, and
closing with a Hallelujah delivered with mighty outbursts of power.

The third part is devoted to the fall of Adam and Eve and their banishment from Eden, closing
with the announcement of the ultimate salvation of mankind. Both the Almighty and Satan appear
in this part, the former's music being sung by the tenor voice;  though, curiously enough,
the latter's music is much the more attractive.

                              SAINT-SAËNS.

Charles Camille Saint-Saëns, famous as composer, pianist, and critic, was born in Paris, Oct.
9, 1835. He began his musical studies at a very early age. In his seventh year he took piano
lessons of Stamaty and studied harmony, and in his twelfth was a student at the Conservatory,
where he took two organ prizes; though he failed on two occasions in his competition for the
Prix de Rome. His first symphony appeared in 1851, and was performed with success. In 1853
he was appointed organist of the Church of St. Merri, and five years later secured a like position
at the Madeleine, which he filled with high honor for nineteen years, finally resigning in
favor of Theodore Dubois. In 1867 he was awarded a prize for his cantata "Les Noces de Prométhée"
by the Paris International Exhibition, and the next year he was received with distinguished
honor at the Artists' Meeting in Weimar, both as pianist and composer. His operatic career
began about this time. "La Princesse jeune" appeared in 1872, and "Le Timbre d'Argent" in 1877;
but neither was successful. His next work was the sacred drama "Samson et Dalila," produced
at Weimar in the latter part of 1877; followed by "Étienne Marcel" at Lyons in 1879. In addition
to his operas he has written several cantatas, among them "The Deluge" and "La Lyre et la Harpe,"
composed for the Birmingham Festival of 1879; three symphonies; four symphonic poems, "La Rouet
d'Omphale," "Phaéthon," "Danse Macabre," and "La Jeunesse d'Hercule;" a large number of concerted
pieces with orchestra, songs and romances, as well as chamber-music and compositions for piano
and organ. His sacred music includes the following works: mass for four voices, Requiem Mass,
"Oratorio de Noël," "Tantum Ergo," the Nineteenth Psalm for solos, chorus, and orchestra, and
many minor pieces for choir use. He has been a prolific writer, but his fame thus far rests
upon his instrumental music. He has travelled much as a virtuoso in Russia, Spain, Germany,
and England, conducting his own compositions, and also giving piano and organ recitals, in
which he has met with great success. He also ranks high as a musical critic, and many of his
contributions to the Parisian press have been collected, with a view to publication in a separate
volume. Of late he has obtained considerable notoriety by his controversial articles on the
Wagner question,--in which, however, national prejudice sometimes has been more apparent than
cosmopolitan judgment. As a composer, he is unquestionably more learned than are any of his
native contemporaries, and he has made a closer study of Bach than even Gounod has. His descriptive
powers are very strong, as is evidenced by the symphonic poems which Mr. Thomas has introduced
into this country. They even go to the verge of the sensational; but, on the other hand, the
study of his "Oratorio de Noël" and of his transcriptions from Bach will show that he is a
master of counterpoint and thematic treatment.

                           Christmas Oratorio.

"Noël," Saint-Saëns' Christmas oratorio, in dimensions hardly exceeds the limits of a cantata,
but musically is constructed in oratorio style. Its subject is the nativity, combined with
ascriptions of praise and a final exultant hallelujah. The work is short, but very effective,
and is written for five solo voices and chorus, with accompaniment of strings and organ, and
the harp in one number. It opens with a pastoral symphony of a very melodious character. The
first number is the recitative, "And there were Shepherds," including the angelic message and
the appearance of the heavenly hosts, the subject being divided among the tenor, alto, soprano,
and baritone, and leading up to the first chorus ("Glory now unto God in the highest"), which
is quite short, but beautifully written. The next number is an aria for mezzo-soprano ("Firm
in Faith"), which is very simple, but graceful in its melody. The fourth number is a tenor
solo and chorus ("God of all"), written in the church style, followed by a soprano and baritone
duet ("Blessed, ever blessed"), which is very elaborate in its construction, and highly colored.
The next number is the chorus, "Wherefore are the Nations raging," which is intensely dramatic
in its effect, especially for the manner in which the voice-parts are set off against the agitated
accompaniment. The contrasts also are very striking, particularly that between the tumultuous
opening of the chorus and its tranquil close in full harmony on the words, "As it was in the
Beginning." The next number is a lovely trio for tenor, soprano, and baritone ("Thou art from
first to last"), with harp accompaniment throughout, which gives to it an extremely graceful
and elegant effect. It is followed by a quartet ("Alleluia"), in which the theme is introduced
by the alto. The Alleluia is then taken up by all four parts (soprano, mezzo-soprano, alto,
and baritone), in full, rich harmony, the alto closing the number alone in a very effective
adagio passage. The next number is a quintet and chorus, the prelude to which is a repetition
of parts of the opening pastoral. It is also utilized in the voice parts. The number is very
elaborate in its construction and development, and is followed by a short final chorus ("Raise
now your Song on high") in simple church style. Short as the work is, it is very beautiful,
and full not only of genuine service music, but also of graceful conceits and delicate fancies,
both in the voice parts and the accompaniments.

                                SCHUMANN.

Robert Schumann, one of the greatest of musicians, and one who, had his life been spared, would
probably have stood at the head of all composers since Beethoven and Schubert, was the son
of a bookseller, and was born at Zwickau, in Saxony, June 8, 1810. In his earliest youth he
was recognized as a child of genius. His first teacher in music was Baccalaureus Kuntzsch,
who gave him piano instructions. It was while taking these lessons that he attended a concert
given by Moscheles. The playing of the great teacher aroused his musical ambition, and first
inspired him to become a musician. His father recognized his talent very early, but his mother
was opposed to his ambition. In deference to her wishes, he began the study of law,--with the
full determination, however, to make music his vocation; and in this he ultimately succeeded,
through the influence of Wieck, whose daughter, Clara, he subsequently married, and who is
still a skilful pianist and famous teacher. He studied the piano with Wieck until his right
hand was injured. In 1830, in which year his artistic career really opened, he began the theoretical
study of music in its groundwork, first with Director Kupsch in Leipsic, and later with Heinrich
Dorn, and at the same time entered upon the work of composition. His opus No. 1 was the so-called
"Abegg Variations," dedicated to a young lady, Meta Abegg, whom he had met at a ball in Mannheim.
In the same year, 1830, he composed a toccata. In 1831 his famous "Papillons" and other piano
works appeared. Schumann was not only a musician, but an able critic and graceful writer; and
in 1834, with Schunke, Knorr, and Wieck, he founded the "Neue Zeitschrift für Musik," which
had an important influence upon musical progress in Germany, and in which the great promise
of such musicians as Chopin and Brahms was first recognized. He married Clara Wieck in 1840,
after much opposition from her father; and in this year appeared some of his best songs, including
the three famous cycluses, "Liederkreis," "Woman's Life and Love," and "Poet's Love," which
now have a world-wide fame. In the following year larger works came from his pen, among them
his B major symphony, overture, scherzo, and finale in E major, and the symphony in D minor.
During this period in his career he also made many artistic journeys with his wife, which largely
increased the reputation of each. In 1843 he completed his great "romantic oratorio," "Paradise
and the Peri," set to Moore's text, and many favorite songs and piano compositions, among them
the "Phantasiestücke" and "Kinderscenen," and his elegant piano quintet in E flat. In 1844,
in company with his wife, he visited St. Petersburg and Moscow, and their reception was a royal
one. The same year he abandoned his "Zeitschrift," in which "Florestan," "Master Raro," "Eusebius,"
and the other pseudonyms had become familiar all over Germany, and took the post of director
in Düsseldorf, in the place of Ferdinand Hiller. During the last few years of his life he was
the victim of profound melancholy, owing to an affection of the brain, and he even attempted
suicide by throwing himself into the Rhine. He was then removed to an asylum at Endenich, where
he died July 20, 1856. The two men who exercised most influence upon Schumann were Jean Paul
and Franz Schubert. He was deeply pervaded with the romance of the one and the emotional feeling
of the other. His work is characterized by genial humor, a rich and warm imagination, wonderfully
beautiful instrumentation, especially in his accompaniments, the loftiest form of expression,
and a rigid adherence to the canons of art.

                         Paradise and the Peri.

Schumann's secular oratorio, "Paradise and the Peri,"  was written in 1843, and first performed
at the Gewandhaus, Leipsic, December 4th of that year, under the composer's own direction.
Its first performance in England was given June 23, 1856, with Madame Jenny Lind-Goldschmidt
in the part of the Peri, Sterndale Bennett conducting. The text is taken from the second poem
in Moore's "Lalla Rookh," and was suggested to Schumann by his friend Emil Flechsig, who had
translated the poem. This was in 1841; but he did not set it to music until two years later.
The text required many changes, and these he made himself. The principal additions are a chorus
for "The Spirits of the Nile," the chorus of Houris, the Peri's solo, "Banished," the quartet,
"Peri, 'tis true," the solo, "Sunken was the Golden Orb," and the final chorus. It has also
been suggested that he availed himself of still another translation, that of Ollker's, as many
of the changes agree with his text.

It is difficult to define the exact form of the work, though it is nearly always classed as
a secular oratorio, principally because of the introduction of the narrator, after the style
of the passion-music. In other respects it resembles the cantata. Reissmann, in his Life of
Schumann, says on this point,--

  "It seems right that he should have retained the most primitive form of
  the oratorio, that of the passion-music. The poem has no genuinely
  dramatic course; there was not the smallest intrinsic or extrinsic
  reason to dramatize it more fully. Even with treatment such as that of
  the 'Walpurgisnacht,' it must have lost much of its picturesque
  development The only proper way to treat the subject, therefore, was to
  retain the original epic form, and to introduce a narrator in the style
  of antique oratorio, who should relate the facts in a few simple words
  up to the point where they seem to demand a more dramatic setting."

Von Wasielewski also discusses the same point:

  "The narrator is evidently copied from the evangelist in Bach's
  passion-music; but by no means with a like necessity. Unquestionably
  the latter shared the conviction of his day, that not only the
  substance, but the words, of the biblical dogma were sacred. Schumann's
  case was not at all similar. He had before him, in the poem to be set
  to music, a work of art which, although once remodelled, would still
  permit every formal change required by æsthetic considerations. How
  easy, for example, it would have been to abolish the narrator, as
  destructive of unity!"

Had the narrative passages been omitted, it would unquestionably have enhanced the interest
and perhaps relieved the monotony and wearisomeness of some parts of the work. Unlike the usual
manner in which the narrator's part is treated,--as a mere recitative link between numbers,--Schumann
invests it with the same importance as the acts and events themselves, and treats it melodically,
so that the relief which comes from contrast is lacking.

The oratorio is written in three parts, for solo voices, chorus, and orchestra, the principals
being the Peri (soprano); the Angel (alto); the King of Gazna (bass); a Youth (tenor); the
Horseman (baritone); and the Maiden (soprano). The choruses are sung by Indians, Angels, Houris,
and Genii of the Nile, and the part of Narrator is divided among the various voices. The story
follows that of the original poem. The Peri, expelled from Paradise, stands at its gate weeping
to think

            "her recreant race
    Should e'er have lost that sacred place."

The angel who keeps the gate of light promises she shall be re-admitted if she brings "the
gift that is most dear to Heaven." The Peri goes in quest of the gift, first to India, where
she procures the last drop of blood shed by the hero who resisted the tyrant Mahmoud, and takes
it with her to the gate; but the crystal bar moves not. She continues her quest, and from the
pestilential plains of Egypt she takes back the last sigh of the maiden who sacrificed herself
to her love for the youth who stole out to die alone. But still the crystal bar moves not.
At last, in the vale of Baalbec, she finds the gift,--the tear of a repentant sinner,--which
secures her admission.

After a brief orchestral introduction, the Narrator (alto) tells the story of the disconsolate
Peri at the gate, and introduces her in the first solo ("How blest seem to me, vanished Child
of Air"), a tender, beautiful melody, characterized by romantic sentiment. The Narrator (tenor)
introduces the Angel, who delivers her message to the Peri ("One Hope is thine"), to which
the latter replies in a sensuous melody, full of Oriental color ("I know the Wealth hidden
in every Urn"). The tenor Narrator introduces at this point a quartet ("O beauteous Land"),
in which the two trebles, tenor, and bass alternate, followed by the full, powerful chorus,
"But crimson now her Rivers ran." A weird march, fairly barbaric in its effect, indicates the
approach of the tyrant of Gazna, and introduces the stirring chorus of the Indians and Conquerors
("Hail to Mahmoud"). The tenor Narrator describes the youthful warrior standing alone beside
his native river and defying the tyrant. Once more the chorus shouts its greeting to Mahmoud,
and then ensues a dialogue in recitative between the two, leading up to the youth's death and
a double chorus of lamentation ("Woe, for false flew the Shaft"). The tenor Narrator describes
the flight of the Peri to catch the last drop of blood shed for liberty; and then all the voices
join with the soprano solo in a broad, strong, exultant finale ("For Blood must holy be"),
which is one of the most effective numbers in the work.

The second part opens in the most charming manner. The tenor Narrator pictures the return of
the Peri with her gift, leading up to the Angel's solo ("Sweet is our welcome"), which preludes
a brief choral passage for sixteen female voices. After the Narrator's declaration of her disappointment,
the scene changes to Egypt, and in a dainty, delicate three-part chorus the Spirits of the
Nile are invoked not to disturb the Peri. Her lament is heard ("O Eden, how longeth for thee
my Heart!"), and the Spirits now weave a gentle, sympathetic strain with her song. A long tenor
narration follows ("Now wanders forth the Peri sighing"), describing the pestilence brooding
over the Egyptian plains, the music to which is very characteristic. The scene of the maiden
dying with her lover is full of pathos, and contains two exquisite numbers,--the narrative
solo for mezzo-soprano ("Poor Youth, thus deserted"), and the dying love-song of the Maiden
("O let me only breathe the Air, Love"). The scene closes with a sweet and gentle lament for
the pair ("Sleep on"), sung by the Peri, followed by the chorus, which joins in the pathetic
farewell.

The third part opens with a lovely chorus of Houris ("Wreathe ye the Steps to Great Allah's
Throne"), interspersed with solos and Oriental in its coloring. The tenor narration ("Now Morn
is blushing in the Sky"), which is very melodious in character, introduces the Angel, who in
an alto solo ("Not yet") once more dooms the Peri to wander. Her reply ("Rejected and sent
from Eden's Door") is full of despair. The narration is now taken by the baritone in a flowing,
breezy strain ("And now o'er Syria's rosy Plain"), which is followed by a charming quartet
of Peris ("Say, is it so?"). Once more the baritone intervenes, followed by the Peri; and then
the tenor Narrator takes up the theme in a stirring description of the boy nestling amid the
roses, and the "passion-stained" horseman at the fountain. The alto proclaims the vesper call
to prayer, and the tenor reflects upon the memories of the wretched man as he sees the child
kneeling. The solo baritone announces his repentance, followed by a quartet and chorus in very
broad, full harmony ("O blessed Tears of true Repentance!"). The next number is a double one,
composed of soprano and tenor solos with chorus ("There falls a Drop on the Land of Egypt").
In an exultant, triumphant strain ("Joy, joy forever, my Work is done!"), the Peri sings her
happiness, and the chorus brings the work to a close with the heavenly greeting, "Oh, welcome
'mid the Blessed!" The third part is unquestionably long and wearisome, and taxes not only
the voices of the singers, but also the patience of the hearers. The first and second, however,
contain some beautiful gems, and the orchestral work is very rich in its coloring. Taken all
in all, however, it is a severe treatment of a fanciful subject.

                                 SPOHR.

Louis Spohr, one of the world's greatest violinists, and a composer of world-wide fame, was
born at Brunswick, April 25, 1784. Like all great musical geniuses, his ability was displayed
very early. He began to play the violin in his fifth year, and to compose for that instrument
before he was in his teens. After studying the rudiments with several teachers, the Duke of
Brunswick induced Franz Eck, a recognized master of the violin, to give him instruction. Spohr
remained with him two years, and accompanied him on his travels to Russia, studying, composing,
and learning much by his observation of Eck's playing. In 1805 he was appointed leader of the
band of the Duke of Gotha, and began writing orchestral works, his compositions before that
time having been mainly for the violin. His first opera, "Die Prüfung," also appeared about
this time. In 1807 he made a very successful tour through Germany, and another in 1809, arousing
great enthusiasm by his admirable playing. In that year also occurred the first musical festival
in Germany, which was conducted by Spohr at Frankenhausen, in Thuringia. In 1811 another was
held, for which he wrote his first symphony. In 1812 his first oratorio, "Das jüngste Gericht,"
appeared; but after two performances of it he was greatly dissatisfied, and laid it aside.
In the fall of that year he made his first public appearance in Vienna, and achieved such success
that he was offered and accepted the leadership of the band at the Theater-an-der-Wien. He
remained there only three years, however, and then resumed his professional tours in Switzerland
and Italy. In 1818 he was appointed conductor of the opera at Frankfort, where he remained
for two years, during which time he brought out his operas "Faust" and "Zemire and Azor." In
1820 he went to England for the first time, and played many of his compositions in the Philharmonic
concerts. His English visit was a very successful one, and on his journey back to Germany he
stopped in Paris, where also he met with an enthusiastic welcome. He finally settled down at
Dresden, where Weber was then busy with the preparations for the performance of his "Freischütz."
During his stay there, Weber had been offered the post of Hofkapellmeister to the Elector of
Cassel; but not being in a position to accept it, he recommended Spohr, and the latter obtained
the appointment Jan. 1, 1822, where he remained the rest of his days, as it was a life-office.
During this year he finished his opera "Jessonda," one of the most successful of all his vocal
works. Four years later he conducted the Rhenish Festival at Düsseldorf and brought out his
second oratorio, "Die letzten Dinge" ("The Last Things"). In 1831 he completed his "Violin
School," which has ever since been a standard work. His most important symphony, "Die Weihe
der Töne" ("The Consecration of Sound"), was produced at Cassel in 1832, and his third oratorio,
"Des Heiland's letzte Stunden" ("Calvary"), at the same place in 1835. Four years later he
went to England again, and produced his "Calvary" at the Norwich Festival with immense success,
which led to his reception of a commission to produce "The Fall of Babylon" for the Festival
of 1842. His last opera, "The Crusaders," was written in 1844, but did not meet with a permanent
success. From this time until 1857 he was engaged in making tours and producing the works of
other composers, among them those of Wagner, whose "Tannhäuser" he brought out in 1853, in
spite of the Elector's opposition. In 1857 he was pensioned, and two years later died. He was
born a musician and died one, and in his long and honorable life he was always true to his
art and did much to ennoble and dignify it, notwithstanding the curious combinations in his
musical texture. He never could understand or appreciate Beethoven. He proclaimed himself a
disciple of Mozart, though he had little in common with him, and he declared Wagner the greatest
of all living composers, on the strength of his "Flying Dutchman" alone. As a performer, he
was one of the best of any period.

                           The Last Judgment.

Spohr wrote two oratorios upon the same subject,--"Das jüngste Gericht" ("The Last Judgment")
and "Die letzten Dinge" ("The Last Things"); but the latter is now universally entitled "The
Last Judgment," and the former was shelved by the composer himself shortly after its performance.
His autobiography gives us some interesting details of each. After a concert-tour to Hamburg,
Spohr returned to Gotha, and found there a letter from Bischoff, the Precentor of Frankenhausen,
informing him that he had been commanded by the Governor of Erfurt to arrange a musical festival
there in celebration of the birthday of Napoleon, August 15. He invited Spohr to assume its
direction and to write an oratorio for the occasion. Previous to this a poet in Erfurt had
offered him the text called "The Last Judgment," and Spohr determined to avail himself of it.
He writes,--

  "I sent for the libretto and set to work at once. But I soon felt that
  for the oratorio style I was yet too deficient in counterpoint and in
  fugueing. I therefore suspended my work in order to make the
  preliminary studies requisite for the subject. From one of my pupils I
  borrowed Marpurg's 'Art of Fugue-writing,' and was soon deeply and
  continuously engaged in the study of that work. After I had written
  half a dozen fugues according to its instruction, the last of which
  seemed to me very successful, I resumed the composition of my oratorio,
  and completed it without allowing anything else to intervene. According
  to a memorandum I made, it was begun in January, 1812, and finished in
  June."

In this connection Spohr tells the following humorous story:--

  "One of the solo-singers alone, who sang the part of Satan, did not
  give me satisfaction. The part, which was written with a powerful
  instrumentation, I gave, by the advice of Bischoff, to a village
  schoolmaster in the neighborhood of Gotha who was celebrated throughout
  the whole district for his colossal bass voice. In power of voice he
  had indeed quite sufficient to outroar a whole orchestra; but in
  science and in music he could by no means execute the part in a
  satisfactory manner. I taught and practised him in the part myself, and
  took great pains to assist him a little. But without much success; for
  when the day of public trial came, he had totally forgotten every
  instruction and admonition, and gave such loose to his barbarian voice
  that he first of all frightened the auditory, and then set it in roars
  of laughter."

It is clear from Spohr's remarks that he was satisfied with the choruses and fugues, but not
with the solo parts of Jesus and Mary, which were in the florid cantata style of that day.
He subsequently determined to re-write them; but "when about to begin," he says, "it seemed
to me as though I could no longer enter into the spirit of the subject, and so it remained
undone. To publish the work as it was, I could not make up my mind. Thus in later years it
has lain by without any use being made of it."

Thirteen years afterwards he wrote "Die letzten Dinge," now so well known as "The Last Judgment."
He says in one of his letters,--

  "In the same year [1825] Councillor Rochlitz, the editor of the
  'Leipsic Musical Journal,' offered me the text of an oratorio, 'Die
  letzten Dinge,' to compose for, which I received with great pleasure,
  as my previous attempt in that style of art, 'Das jüngste Gericht,' by
  no means pleased me any longer, and therefore I had not once been
  disposed to perform a single number of it at the meeting of our
  Society.... The whole work was finished by Good Friday [1826], and then
  first performed complete in the Lutheran Church. It was in the evening,
  and the church was lighted up. My son-in-law, Wolff, who had been long
  in Rome, proposed to illuminate the church as at Rome on Good Friday,
  with lights disposed overhead in the form of a cross, and carried out
  his idea. A cross fourteen feet long, covered with silver-foil and hung
  with six hundred glass lamps, was suspended overhead in the middle of
  the church, and diffused so bright a light that one could everywhere
  clearly read the text-books. The musicians and singers, nearly two
  hundred in number, were placed in the gallery of the church, arranged
  in rows one above the other, and for the most part unseen by the
  auditory, which, amounting to nearly two thousand persons, observed a
  solemn stillness. My two daughters, Messrs. Wild, Albert, and Föppel,
  together with an amateur, sang the soli, and the performance was
  faultless. The effect was, I must myself say, extraordinary."

The title of the work is clearly a misnomer, as well as a mistranslation, for it contains nothing
of the terrors of the Last Judgment, but, on the other hand, is graceful and elegant in style.
The affixing of this title to it is said to have been the work of Professor Taylor, who arranged
it for the Norwich festival of 1830, and supposed he was preparing the earlier oratorio, "Das
jüngste Gericht." The title has now become so indissolubly connected with it that no effort
has been made to change it. In the first part the text is confined to ascriptions of praise.
And yet Malibran, in her biography of Spohr, calls the oratorio a musical copy of Michael Angelo's
"Last Judgment,"--showing that more than one person has confounded the two oratorios.

The work opens with a very long overture of a grave and majestic character, in limits far beyond
those usually found in oratorio. It is followed by the striking chorus, "Praise His awful Name,"
which is beautifully written, and contains impressive soprano and bass solos. Some brief tenor
and bass recitatives lead to the second number, a short chorus ("Holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts"),
in which the voices have no accompaniment except the horns. Three phrases of recitative for
soprano and tenor lead to the next chorus ("All Glory to the Lamb that died"), a grand number,
which is familiar to nearly every lover of oratorio music. The next number is one of the most
striking in the work. A short tenor recitative introduces the tenor solo and chorus, "Blessing,
honor, glory, and power," beginning with a tranquil and smoothly flowing solo, the chorus opening
in the same manner, then developing into an admirably written fugue, and closing in the same
serene style as it opened. A very dramatic and picturesque scene follows, comprising the tenor
recitative ("And lo! a mighty Host"), with a very striking accompaniment descriptive of "the
mighty host of all nations and people that stood before the throne and the Lamb," and the exquisite
quartet and chorus ("Lord God of Heaven and Earth") which close the first part.

The second part opens with an orchestral symphony which heralds the signs and portents of the
Day of Judgment in graphic style. It is followed by a long bass recitative with intensely dramatic
accompaniment:--

      "The day of wrath is near.
      The Almighty shall reveal His power.
      The reaper's song is silent in the field,
      And the shepherd's voice on the mountain.
      The valleys then shall shake with fear,
      With dread the hills shall tremble.
      It comes, the day of terror comes!
      The awful morning dawns!
      Thy mighty arm, O God, is uplifted.
      Thou shalt shake the earth and heavens.
      They shall shrivel as a scroll
      When Thou in wrath appearest."

The text indicates the dramatic nature of the subject, and it is treated with a force and vigor
that are in striking contrast with the tenderness and serenity, at times rising to exultation,
that characterize the remainder of the work. This recitative leads to the very pathetic duet
for soprano and tenor, "Forsake me not in this dread hour," which is a gem of beautiful melody,
followed by the response of the chorus in unison, "If with your whole Hearts." After a short
tenor recitative, another strong chorus ensues ("Destroyed is Babylon"), with an agitated and
powerful accompaniment, which continues for some time after the voices cease, once interrupted
by the tenor proclaiming "It is ended," and then coming to a close in a gentle pianissimo effect.
A tender, melodious quartet and chorus ("Blest are the Departed") follows. The soprano voice
announces the new heaven and earth. A short tenor recitative ("Behold! He soon shall come")
and the quartet response ("Then come, Lord Jesus") prepare the way for the final massive chorus
("Great and wonderful are all Thy Works"), which begins with a few bars of full harmony, then
develops into a vigorous fugue, which, after choral announcements of hallelujah, is followed
by another fugue ("Thine is the Kingdom"), closing with a tumultuous ascription of praise,
and Amen. The solo parts in the oratorio are always short and of a reflective character. It
is peculiarly a choral work, of which, with one or two exceptions, the predominant traits are
sweetness, tenderness, and grace. In these exceptions, like the great chorus, "Destroyed is
Babylon," with its wonderful accompaniments, it reaches a high strain of sublimity.

                                SULLIVAN.

The great popularity which Arthur Seymour Sullivan has enjoyed for a few years past, growing
out of his extraordinarily successful series of comic operettas, beginning with "The Sorcerer"
(1877), which first caught the public fancy, and ending with "The Mikado" (1885), has almost
overshadowed the permanent foundations upon which his reputation must rest; namely, his serious
and sacred music. He was born in London, May 13, 1842. His father, a band-master and clarinet-player
of distinction, intrusted his musical education at first to the Rev. Thomas Hilmore, master
of the children of the Chapel Royal. He entered the Chapel in 1854 and remained there three
years, and also studied in the Royal Academy of Music under Goss and Sterndale Bennett during
this period, leaving the latter institution in 1858, in which year he went to Leipsic. He remained
in the Conservatory there until 1861, when he returned to London and introduced himself to
its musical public with his music to Shakspeare's "Tempest," which made a great success. The
enthusiasm with which this was received and the favors he gained at the hands of Chorley, at
that time musical critic of the "Athenæum," gave him a secure footing. The cantata "Kenilworth,"
written for the Birmingham Festival, the music to the ballet "L'Île enchantée," and an opera,
"The Sapphire Necklace," were produced in 1864. In 1866 appeared his first symphony, which
has been played not only in England, but also in Germany, and an overture, "In Memoriam,"--a
tribute to his father, who died that year. The next year his overture "Marmion" was first performed.
In 1869 he wrote his first oratorio, "The Prodigal Son," in 1873 "The Light of the World,"
and in 1880 "The Martyr of Antioch;" the first for the Worcester, the second for the Birmingham,
and the third for the Leeds festivals. The beautiful "Overture di Ballo," so frequently played
in this country by the Thomas orchestra, was written for Birmingham in 1870, and the next year
appeared his brilliant cantata "On Shore and Sea." On the 11th of May, 1867, was first heard
in public his little comic operetta "Cox and Box." It was the first in that series of extraordinary
successes, really dating from "The Sorcerer," which are almost without parallel in the operatic
world, and which have made his name and that of his collaborator, Gilbert, household words.
He has done much for sacred as well as for secular music. In addition to his oratorios he has
written numerous anthems, forty-seven hymn-tunes, two Te Deums, several carols, part-songs,
and choruses, and in 1872 edited the collection of "Church Hymns with Tunes" for the Christian
Knowledge Society.

He received the honorary degree of Doctor of Music from Cambridge in 1876, and from Oxford
in 1879, and in 1883 was knighted by the Queen.

                            The Prodigal Son.

"The Prodigal Son," the first of Sullivan's oratorios, was written for the Worcester Festival
in England, and performed for the first time Sept. 8, 1869. It is a short work, comprising
but eighteen numbers, and very melodious in character. In his preface to the work the composer
says,--

  "It is a remarkable fact that the parable of the Prodigal Son should
  never before have been chosen as the text of a sacred musical
  composition. The story is so natural and pathetic, and forms so
  complete a whole; its lesson is so thoroughly Christian; the
  characters, though few, are so perfectly contrasted; and the
  opportunity for the employment of local color is so obvious,--that it
  is indeed astonishing to find the subject so long overlooked.

  "The only drawback is the shortness of the narrative, and the
  consequent necessity for filling it out with material drawn from
  elsewhere. In the present case this has been done as sparingly as
  possible, and entirely from the Scriptures. In so doing, the Prodigal
  himself has been conceived, not as of a naturally brutish and depraved
  disposition,--a view taken by many commentators, with apparently little
  knowledge of human nature, and no recollection of their own youthful
  impulses,--but rather as a buoyant, restless youth, tired of the
  monotony of home, and anxious to see what lay beyond the narrow
  confines of his father's farm, going forth in the confidence of his own
  simplicity and ardor, and led gradually away into follies and sins
  which at the outset would have been as distasteful as they were strange
  to him. The episode with which the parable concludes has no dramatic
  connection with the former and principal portion, and has therefore not
  been treated."

In reality there are but six of the eighteen numbers concerned with the narration of the parable.
The remainder moralize upon the story and illustrate its teaching. After a short, simple orchestral
prelude, an opening chorus, beginning with soprano solo ("There is Joy in the Presence of the
Angels of God"), and containing also alto and bass solos, gives the key to the whole work in
reflective style, as it proclaims the rejoicing in heaven over the "one sinner that repenteth."
At its conclusion the parable begins with tenor recitative and solo, "A certain man had two
sons," in which the Prodigal asks for his portion of goods. In a bass aria preceded by recitative,
the father gives him good advice, "Honor the Lord," and presumably his portion also, as the
soprano recites in the next number that "he took his journey into a far country, and there
wasted his substance in riotous living." Thereupon follows a very melodious and vivacious chorus
("Let us eat and drink; to-morrow we die"), in which the tenor has an important part. The response
to the bacchanal comes in the next number, a brief chorus beginning with the alto recitative,
"Woe unto them." One of the gems of the work, a pretty alto song, "Love not the World," intervenes
at this point. At its conclusion the narrative is resumed.

After an effective prelude by orchestra, the soprano recitative relates the famine and the
experiences of the Prodigal among the swine, leading up to a pretty aria ("O that thou hadst
hearkened"). The tenor follows with an expressive aria ("How many hired Servants of my Father's").
The narrative again halts to give place to a very taking chorus ("The Sacrifices of God"),
after which we have the return and reconciliation ("And he arose and came to his Father"),--a
very dramatic duet for tenor and bass, followed by the vigorous and exultant bass aria ("For
this my Son was dead") of the father. The parable ends here; but the music goes on moralizing
upon and illustrating the theme in four effective numbers,--the chorus, "O that Men would praise
the Lord," which is the longest and best constructed in the work; the recitative and aria for
tenor, "Come, ye Children;" the unaccompanied quartet, "The Lord is nigh;" and the final chorus,
"Thou, O Lord, art our Father," closing with a Hallelujah in full, broad harmony.

                         The Light of the World.

Sir Arthur Sullivan's second oratorio, "The Light of the World," is laid out upon a much larger
scale in every way than "The Prodigal Son."  It was written for the Birmingham Festival of
1873, was given for the first time on the 27th of August. The purpose of the work, as the composer
explains in his preface, is to set forth the human aspects of the life of our Lord upon earth,
by the use of some of the actual incidents in his career which bear witness to his attributes
as preacher, healer, and prophet. "To give it dramatic force," he says,--

  "The work has been laid out in scenes dealing respectively, in the
  first part with the nativity, preaching, healing, and prophesying of
  our Lord, ending with the triumphal entry into Jerusalem; and in the
  second part, with the utterances which, containing the avowal of
  himself as the Son of Man, excited to the utmost the wrath of his
  enemies, and led the rulers to conspire for his betrayal and death; the
  solemn recital by the chorus of his sufferings, and the belief in his
  final reward; the grief of Mary Magdalene at the sepulchre; and the
  consolation and triumph of the Disciples at the resurrection of their
  Lord and Master."

The first part has four scenes, "Bethlehem," "Nazareth," "Lazarus" (which might more appropriately
have been entitled "Bethany"), and "The Way to Jerusalem." The scenes of the second part are
laid entirely in Jerusalem. "Bethlehem" includes the message of the angels to the shepherds,
their visit to Mary, the nativity, the warning by the angel to Mary and Joseph of Herod's design,
the lament and consolation of Rachel in Rama, and the promise of God's blessing upon the child.
In "Nazareth" we have a scene representing Christ in the synagogue reading from Isaiah and
declaring himself the object of the prophecy, his expulsion by the incredulous crowd of listeners,
and his exhortations to his disciples, when left alone with them, to bear their persecutions
with meekness. "Lazarus" describes the journey to Bethany and our Lord's assurances to the
bereaved sisters that their brother shall rise again. "The Way to Jerusalem" scene is indicated
by its title,--the entry of the Lord into the city amid the hosannas and exultant acclamations
of the people. In the second part, we have the discourse concerning the sheep and the goats,
the interview between the ruler and the people, and the former's anger with Nicodemus, the
sufferings and death of Christ, and the resurrection and joy of the disciples as they glorify
God and sing the praises of their risen Master.

The work opens with a prologue chorus ("There shall come forth a Rod out of the Stem of Jesse"),
at the close of which the "Bethlehem" scene begins. It is preluded with a quiet but effective
pastoral movement for the orchestra, a tenor recitative ("There were Shepherds abiding in the
Field"), and a contralto solo announcing the heavenly message to the Shepherds, which lead
up to a spirited "Gloria" by the sopranos and altos, followed by a chorus of the Shepherds
("Let us now go even unto Bethlehem") for male voices. A Shepherd, in brief recitative passages,
declares to Mary, "Blessed art thou among Women," followed by the soprano solo, "My Soul doth
magnify the Lord." After the Virgin's expression of thanks, the Shepherds join in the chorus,
"The whole Earth is at rest," which is peculiarly striking in its contrasts. A short recitative
by the Angel, warning Mary to flee into Egypt, is followed by a very sombre chorus ("In Rama
was there a Voice"). At its close, the tenor is heard in a tender aria ("Refrain thy Voice
from weeping"), leading to a chorus full of spirited harmony, and rising to a very effective
climax ("I will pour My Spirit"), which closes the scene.

The "Nazareth" scene opens with a baritone solo ("The Spirit of the Lord is upon me"), in which
Jesus declares himself in the synagogue as the object of the prophecy from Isaiah which he
has been reading. The Jews answer in a very dramatic chorus ("Whence hath this Man his Wisdom?").
Again Jesus interposes with the declaration, "A prophet is not without honor save in his own
country;" whereupon the people break out in a still more dramatic chorus ("Is not this Jesus?"),
set to a very effective accompaniment. For the third time Jesus declares himself, followed
by the stirring, furious chorus, "Why hear ye him?" A tender and at times fervid solo ("Lord,
who hath believed our Report?") leads to a very effective quintet ("Doubtless Thou art our
Father"). After another brief baritone solo ("Blessed are they"), we come to the chorus, "He
maketh the Sun to rise," which is one of the most beautifully written in the work, and closes
the scene.

The third scene, "Lazarus," begins with the description of the mournful journey to Bethany,
the arrival among the kindred and friends, who are trying to comfort the bereaved sisters,
and closes at the still unopened grave. It includes a duet between tenor and baritone, the
former a Disciple, the latter Jesus, whose music is invariably sung by the baritone voice;
a solo for alto ("Weep ye not for the Dead"), with a sombre orchestral prelude, and accompanied
by a chorus in its close; a dialogue between Martha and Jesus ("Lord, if thou hadst been here");
a short but very beautiful chorus ("Behold how he loved him!"); the baritone solo, "Said I
not unto thee;" and a final chorus of great power ("The Grave cannot praise thee").

The last scene of the first part, "The Way to Jerusalem," is very brilliant throughout, and
is in cheerful contrast with the general sombreness of the preceding numbers. It opens with
a brief dialogue between Jesus and a Disciple ("Master, get thee out, and depart hence"), which
leads to a charming three-part chorus for children's voices ("Hosanna to the Son of David"),
with a prominent harp part in the accompaniment, and worked up to a fine climax. A brilliant
soprano solo ("Tell ye the Daughter of Zion") intervenes, followed by a short dialogue between
Jesus and a Pharisee, which leads to the vigorous chorus of the Disciples, "Blessed be the
Kingdom." After another baritone solo ("If thou hadst known, O Jerusalem") the children's hosanna
is repeated,--this time with the power of the full chorus; and the first part comes to a close.

The first part opens with a prelude of a few bars; but the second begins with a long overture,
very effectively written, and intended, as the composer himself says, to indicate the angry
feelings and dissensions caused by the Lord's presence in Jerusalem. At its close the baritone,
in one of the most forcible solos assigned to this part ("When the Son of Man shall come in
his Glory"), discourses the parable of the sheep and goats. The wondering chorus of the People,
"Is not this he whom they seek to kill?" follows, and then ensues a somewhat tedious scene.
A Ruler argues with the People, contemptuously asking if Christ shall come out of Galilee.
The People remain unconvinced, however. Nicodemus then strives to reason with the Ruler, with
the natural effect of making him very angry. All this leads up to an effective female chorus
("The Hour is come"). In a very tender and pathetic solo ("Daughters of Jerusalem") Jesus sings
his farewell. The incidents of the crucifixion are avoided, as the work is intended only to
illustrate the human career of Jesus. The rest of the story is told in narrative form; an unaccompanied
quartet ("Yea, though I walk") and a powerful, but gloomy chorus, describing Christ's sufferings
("Men and Brethren"), bring us to the sepulchre. The scene opens with the plaint of Mary Magdalene,
"Where have they laid him?" and the response of the Angel, who tells her Christ has risen,
which is followed by a six-part unaccompanied chorus ("The Lord is risen"). A short tenor solo
("If ye be risen with Christ") leads directly to the final chorus ("Him hath God exalted"),
which is worked up in fugal form with much spirit.

                                 VERDI.

Giuseppe Verdi, the greatest of living Italian opera composers, was born at Roncale, Oct. 9,
1813. Like many another musician, he sprang from humble and rude beginnings, his parents having
kept a small inn and notion store in the little Italian village. His musical talent displayed
itself very early. In his tenth year he was appointed organist in the place of Baistrocchi,
the master with whom he had been studying at Busseto. Through the generosity of his patron,
M. Barezzi, he was sent to Milan, where he was refused admission to the Conservatory, on the
ground that he showed "no special aptitude for music!" Nothing daunted, the young composer,
acting on the suggestions of the conductor of La Scala, studied composition and orchestration
with M. Lavigne, himself a composer of no mean ability. In 1833 Verdi returned to Busseto,
and five years later went back to Milan, where he began his wonderfully successful career as
an operatic composer. His first opera, "Oberto Conte di S. Bonifacio," appeared in 1839, and
was followed by a series of operatic works that have achieved world-wide success and placed
their composer at the head of all contemporary Italian writers. The most important of them
are: "Nabucco" (1842); "I Lombardi" (1843); "Ernani" (1844); "Attila" (1846); "Macbeth" (1847);
"I Masnadieri" (1847); "Luisa Miller" (1849); "Rigoletto" (1851); "Il Trovatore" (1853); "La
Traviata" (1853); "The Sicilian Vespers" (1855); "The Masked Ball" (1857); "The Force of Destiny"
(1862); "Don Carlos" (1867); "Aïda" (1871). In the last-named opera, Verdi departs from the
purely Italian school of operatic writing and shows the unmistakable signs of Wagner's influence
upon him. Now, in his seventy-third year, comes the intelligence that he has completed still
another opera, on the subject of "Othello," which will soon be placed in rehearsal in Paris.
In the interval between "Aïda" and "Othello" he wrote the "Manzoni Requiem," a "Pater Noster"
for five voices, and an "Ave Maria" for soprano solo. He has also written several marches,
short symphonies, concertos for piano, minor church compositions, a stringed quartet, a "Stabat
Mater," the choruses to Manzoni's tragedies, and numerous songs and romances for the drawing-room.
With his wife, Madame Strepponi, he has spent a very quiet life in his villa at S. Agato, looking
after his farming operations, to which of late years he has given more attention than to music.
In a letter addressed to the Italian critic, Filippi, he writes: "I know very well that you
are also a most distinguished musician and devoted to your art: ... but Piave and Mariani must
have told you that at S. Agato we neither make nor talk about music, and you will run the risk
of finding a piano not only out of tune, but very likely without strings." He has been overwhelmed
with decorations and honors, but has studiously avoided public life and the turmoil of the
world. In 1866 he was elected a member of the Italian Parliament from Busseto, but sent in
his resignation shortly afterwards; and in 1875 was appointed senator by the King, but never
took his seat. His fame is indissolubly connected with his music, and in the pursuit of that
art he has become one of the most admired composers of his time.

                          The Manzoni Requiem.

The history of "The Manzoni Requiem" is of more than ordinary interest. Shortly after Rossini's
death, in 1868, Verdi conceived the idea of a requiem in his memory, to be written by many
hands, which should be performed in the cathedral of Bologna on each centenary of the composer's
death, but upon no other occasion and at no other place. The project met with favor. The work
was laid out in thirteen numbers and assigned to thirteen Italian composers, Verdi taking the
"Libera me," which was to be the last number in the work. Each of the composers finished his
task; but when the parts were joined in a complete requiem they were found to be so dissimilar
in treatment, and the whole work so incoherent and lacking in symmetry and unity, that the
scheme went no further. M. Mazzucato, of Milan, who had examined the work, was so impressed
with the "Libera me" that he wrote to Verdi urging him to compose the entire requiem.

About this time (1873) Alessandro Manzoni, the founder of the romantic school in Italian literature,
died, and was universally mourned by his countrymen. The requiem which had been intended for
Rossini was now written by Verdi for his friend, the great Italian patriot and poet, the immortal
author of "I promessi Sposi," and the "Libera me" was transferred to it. It was performed for
the first time at Milan, May 22, 1874, the anniversary of Manzoni's death, with Teresa Stolz
soprano, Maria Waldmann alto, Giuseppe Capponi tenor, and Ormondo Maini bass, a chorus of a
hundred and twenty voices, and an orchestra of a hundred and ten. It was next given in Paris,
in the following month, under the composer's direction and since that time has been frequently
given in Europe and in the United States.

The mass is divided into seven parts, with solos, choruses, and full orchestra, as follows:
No. 1. "Requiem" and "Kyrie" (quartet and chorus). 2. "Dies Iræ;" thus divided: "Dies Iræ"
(chorus); "Tuba Mirum" (chorus); "Liber scriptus" (chorus and fugue); "Quid sum miser" (trio
for soprano, alto, and tenor); "Rex tremendæ" (quartet and chorus); "Recordare" (duo for soprano
and alto, and chorus); "Ingemisco" (solo for tenor); "Confutatis" (solo for bass); "Lacrymosa"
(quartet and chorus). 3. "Domine Jesu," offertory, by quartet. 4. "Sanctus" (fugue with double
chorus). 5. "Agnus Dei" (duet for soprano and alto, and chorus). 6. "Lux æterna" (trio for
alto, tenor, and bass). 7. "Libera me" (solo for soprano, chorus, and final fugue).

The "Requiem" opens, after a few measures of prelude, with the chorus chanting the appeal for
rest sotto voce, the effect being carried as pianissimo as possible until the basses, by an
abrupt change of key, give out the theme of a fugue ("Te decet hymnus"), written in pure religious
style. The introductory "Requiem" is repeated, and leads to the "Kyrie," the theme of which
is stated by the tenor, and in turn taken up by the other soloists, the chorus shortly joining,
a double sextet interwoven with it, and the whole closing pianissimo, as the "Requiem" opened.

The second part, the "Dies Iræ," is in strong contrast with the first, and is more broadly
and dramatically worked up, and with freer accompaniment. The opening chorus is one of startling
power. The tenors and basses open the number, immediately followed by the four parts announcing
the Day of Wrath in high, sustained notes, while the second sopranos, altos, and tenors accompany
them with immense sweeps of sound that rise and fall like the waves. There are nine numbers
in this part which have been already specified, the most effective of them being the adagio
trio ("Quid sum miser") for soprano, alto, and tenor, upon which Verdi has lavished his melodious
inspiration. The trio is continually interwoven with the chorus shouting fortissimo the "Rex
tremendæ majestatis," until it takes another form in the prayer, "Recordare," a duet for soprano
and alto in Verdi's best operatic vein. A very effective tenor solo, "Ingemisco," followed
by a very solemn and majestic bass solo, "Confutatis," lead to the stirring measures of the
Day of Wrath again, and close this part in an ensemble of immense power, both vocal and dramatic.

The offertory ("Domine Jesu") is a quartet with three motives,--the first andante, the second
allegro, and the third adagio in Gregorian form, the three themes being admirably worked up
and accompanied. The "Sanctus" (the fourth part of the mass) is a very impressive allegro double
chorus, followed by the "Agnus Dei," a duet for soprano and alto which is full of melodious
inspiration, illustrated with charming instrumental color; it is the gem of the mass, and one
of the happiest numbers Verdi has ever scored. The sixth part is the "Lux æterna," a trio for
alto, tenor, and bass which is very dramatic in setting; and this leads to the "Libera," the
final division and the climax of the work. It is in its general effect a soprano obligato with
chorus. After a monotone recitative and solo, the "Dies Iræ" is repeated, likewise the "Requiem
æternam" (which forms the introduction of the mass), and closes with a fugue of majestic proportions
that finally ends in the same pianissimo effect as characterizes the opening of the work.

Thus much of the work in detail. It remains to look at this mass as a whole. The first thought
that will strike the listener is its utter dissimilarity to any other of Verdi's works, except
"Aïda." Like that opera, it is in his latest style,--an attempt to show the world that he can
write something besides melodies. Hence we find more decided contrapuntal effects, the canon
and fugue forms, and even the plain, serious style of the early devotional music of the Church
in the days of Gregory and Palestrina. The second thought is that this mass, although it has
had Papal approval, is not so much a mass as it is a dramatic threnody in memory of a loved
friend. As compared with the masses of Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, and the other early mass-writers,
it has not their conventional form, their regular sequence of setting, their coherence of spirit
and sentiment. There are wide divergences in it from the old beaten track. But it may be said,
on the other hand, that while the traditions are violated, Verdi does not so far lose sight
of the devotional character of his work as to descend to the light, tripping, and sometimes
fantastic measures of Rossini in the "Stabat Mater." Von Bülow very nearly hit the truth in
saying that "The Manzoni Requiem" is an opera in ecclesiastical costume. The dramatic element
is its strong feature, and the inexhaustible resources of the composer's invention strike the
hearer as one of the chief characteristics. The first six parts seem to have included nearly
all that can be done, and you wonder if the last part, the "Libera me," will not fall tamely;
when to your surprise it proves to be the grand culmination of the work, and presents, with
its solo and chorus and imposing fugue, an ensemble of effect, a richness of instrumentation,
a severe and almost classical form of composition, and a dramatic intensity and passion that
sweep the whole range of power, from a fortissimo tutte forza, down to the faintest whisper
of a pianissimo. It bursts upon you like the thunder, and dies away in the still small voice
that whispers the requiem of everlasting rest.

                        SACRED MUSIC IN AMERICA.

The following sketch of the rise and progress of sacred music in America may prove of interest
to the reader as a supplement to the history of the Oratorio and of the numerous illustrations
of that class of compositions contained in the body of the book. Ritter, Gould, Hood, and other
church-music historians have been freely consulted to make the sketch as complete as possible.

The psalmody of the Protestant church was first arranged and brought into use in the course
of the sixteenth century, through the efforts of the reformers in Germany and particularly
of Martin Luther, who was extremely fond of music, and wrote a quaint discourse on the art.
In 1524 he published a collection of hymns which also comprised a few versified psalms. These
were set to music in four parts, as he says "for no other reason than because of my desire
that the young, who ought to be educated in music as well as in other good arts, might have
something to take the place of worldly and amorous songs, and so learn something useful and
practise something virtuous, as becometh the young. I would be glad to see all arts, and especially
music, employed in the service of Him who created them." Zwingle, Cranmer, Calvin, and Knox
were also zealous advocates of psalm-singing; and during the same century Tye, Tallis, Bird,
and Gibbons did a great work for ecclesiastical music in England.

At the time of the Reformation in England the Puritans proved themselves zealous musical reformers.
They reduced singing to the severest simplicity. They had no sympathy with elaborate arrangements.
Organs, choir-books, and choir-singers were objects of their special antipathy. One of these
iconoclasts says: "This singing and saying of mass, matins, or even-song is but roryng, howling,
whisteling, mummying, conjuring and jogelyng and the playing of orgayns a foolish vanitie."
Latimer in 1537 notified the convent at Worcester: "Whenever there shall be any preaching in
your monastery all manner of singing and other ceremonies shall be utterly laid aside." In
1562 it was proposed that the psalms should be sung by the whole congregation, and that organs
should be no longer used. In the Confession of the Puritans (1571) they say: "Concerning the
singing of the psalms, we allow of the people's joining with one voice in a plain tune, but
not in tossing the psalms from one side to the other, with intermingling of organs." An appeal
was made to Parliament against the singing of the noble cathedral music by "chanting choristers
disguised, as are all the rest, in white surplices, some in corner caps and silly copes, imitating
the fashion and manner of Antichrist the Pope, that man of sin and child of perdition, with
his other rabble of miscreants and shavelings."

Sternhold, who was groom of the robes to Henry VIII. and afterwards groom of the bed-chamber
to Edward VI., was one of the most zealous of these reformers. In connection with Hopkins,
a clergyman and schoolmaster, he versified a large number of the psalms and published them.
They were printed at first without music, but in 1562 they appeared with the notes of the plain
melody under the following title: "The whole Book of Psalms, collected into English metre by
T. Sternhold and J. Hopkins and others, conferred with the Ebrue, with apt notes to sing them
withal. Imprinted by John Day." In this work there was but one part, the air, and each note
was accompanied by its name; but a few years later the psalms appeared set to music in four
parts. They were the work of William Damon, and his book bore the title: "The Psalms of David
to English Metre, with notes of Four Parts set unto them, by Wm. Damon, to the Use of the Godly
Christians, for recreating themselves, instead of fond and unseemly ballads. 1579." In 1599
there appeared a very ambitious work in folio form, so arranged that four persons might sing
from it, and bearing the title: "The Psalms of David in Metre, the Plain song being the common
Tune, to be sung and played upon the Lute, Orpharion, Citterne, or Bass-viol, severally or
together; the singing Part to be either Tenor or Treble to the instrument, according to the
Nature of the Voice, or for Four Voices; with Ten Short Tunes in the end, to which, for the
most part, all Psalms may be usually sung; for the Use of such as are of mean Skill, and whose
Leisure least serveth to practice. By Richard Allison, Gent., Practitioner in the Art of Music."
Notwithstanding its formidable title, the work was not highly esteemed at the time. In 1621,
Thomas Ravenscroft, Bachelor of Music, published an excellent collection of psalm tunes, many
of which are still in use. In his preface he says, by way of advice: "1. That psalms of tribulation
be sung with a low voice and long measure; 2. That psalms of thanksgiving be sung with a voice
indifferent, neither too loud nor too soft, and neither too swift nor too slow; 3. That psalms
of rejoicing be sung with a loud voice and a swift and jocund measure." His preface closes
with the pious wish that all his patrons after death may join in the "Quire of Angels in the
Heavens."

The date of the Ravenscroft collection brings us to the time of the Pilgrims. When they loaded
the "Mayflower" with their homely household furniture, spinning-wheels, and arms of defence,
and set out upon their long and uncertain voyage to find a friendly shore where they might
worship God in their own fashion, the psalm-book was not forgotten. They brought with them
a version made by Henry Ainsworth of Amsterdam, in which the notes set above the words were
of lozenge shape. For twenty years it was in exclusive use, though the Salem Church did not
abandon it until 1667, and the Plymouth Church retained the old favorite until 1692. The Sternhold
and Hopkins collection had also found its way over, but it was used only at Ipswich and in
its vicinity. In 1640 appeared the Bay Psalm Book, issued from the Cambridge press. It was
prepared by an association of New England divines, most prominent among whom were Thomas Welde,
Richard Mather of Dorchester, and John Eliot of Roxbury, the famous Indian missionary. Being
new, it was at once regarded as an innovation. The churches were soon in a wrangle, not only
over the contents of the new collection, but as to the methods of singing. Some were opposed
to singing altogether, while others insisted that only Christian voices should be heard. At
no time were the colonists very learned in music. In the edition of the Bay Psalm Book printed
in 1698, the following concise directions appear:--

  "First, observe how many note-compass the tune is next the place of
  your first note, and how many notes above and below that, so as you may
  begin the tune of your first note, as the rest may be sung in the
  compass of your and the people's voices, without Squeaking above or
  Grumbling below. For the better understanding of which take note of the
  following directions:

  "Of the eight short Tunes used to four lines only, whose measure is to
  eight syllables on the first line, and six on the next; and may be sung
  to any Psalms of that measure.

  Oxford Tune.     }
  Litchfield Tune. } To Psalms Consolatory.
  Low Dutch Tune.  }

  York Tune.   }
  Winsor Tune. } To Psalms of Prayer, Confessions, and Funerals.

  Cambridge Short Tune to peculiar Psalms, as 21, 24, 33, 70, 86, first
  metre, 114, 132.

  "Those six short tunes, in tuning the first notes, will bear a cheerful
  high pitch; in regard to their whole compass from the lowest note, the
  highest is not above five or six notes.

  St. David's Tune. }
  Martyrs Tune.     } To Psalms of Praise and Thanksgiving.

  "These two tunes are eight notes compass above the first note, and
  therefore begin the first note low.

  "Of five long tunes following:

  "Hackney Tune--119 Psalm Tune, second metre. These two tunes begin your
  first note low, for the compass is nine notes, and eight above the
  first note of the tune.

  "100 Psalm Tune. This one tune begin your note indifferent high, in
  regard you are to fall your note lower than your first pitch note.

  "113 Psalm Tune, and 148 Psalm Tune.--These two tunes begin your first
  note low, in regard the Tune ascends eight notes above it."

The turmoil in the churches was settled for a time by Rev. John Cotton, who issued a tract
entitled "Singing of Psalms a Gospel ordinance, or a Treatise wherein are handled these four
Particulars: I. Touching the duty itself. II. Touching the matter to be sung. III. Touching
the singers. IV. Touching the manner of singing." In this tract the author says:--

  "For the first Question we lay downe this conclusion for a Doctrine of
  Truth: That singing of Psalms with a lively voyce, is an holy duty of
  God's worship now in the day of the New Testament. When we say, singing
  with lively voyce, we suppose none will so farre misconstrue us as to
  thinke we exclude singing with the heart; for God is a Spirit, and to
  worship him with the voyce without the spirit, were but lip-labour;
  which (being rested in) is but lost labour, or at most profitted but
  little. Concerning the second Question we hold and believe that not
  only the Psalms of David, but any other spirituall song recorded in the
  Scripture, may lawfully be sung in Christian Churches. 2d. We grant
  also that any private Christian who hath a gifte to frame a spirituall
  song, may both frame it and sing it privately for his own private
  comfort, and remembrance of some special benefit or deliverance. Nor do
  we forbid the private use of any instrument of Music therewithall, so
  that attention to the instrument does not divert the heart from
  attention of the matter of song.

  "Whether women may sing as well as men: For in this point there be some
  that deale with us as Pharaoh delt with the Israelites, who, though he
  was at first utterly unwilling that any should go to sacrifice to the
  Lord in the Wilderness, yet being at length convinced that they must
  goe, then he was content that the men should goe, but not the women. And their
  reason is: Because it is not permitted to a women to speake in the
  Church, how then shall they sing? Much less is it permitted to them to
  prophecy in the Church. And singing the Psalms is a kind of
  Prophecying."

Peace, however, was of short duration. Fresh quarrels arose. The early colonists were good
fighters. They quarrelled over the question whether one should sing or the whole congregation;
whether women as well as men should sing; whether pagans should be allowed to lift up their
voices; and whether the scanty stock of tunes should be enlarged. Learning a tune by note,
without having previously heard it, was almost a mortal offence, and at last something like
a compromise was effected in some of the churches, where alternate singing by rote and rule
satisfied both parties. The ministers added to the general confusion with a flood of circulars
on the subject. Several of them issued a tract entitled "Cases of Conscience about singing
Psalms," in which they ask:--

  "Whether you do believe that singing Psalms, Hymns, and Spirituall
  Songs is an external part of Divine Worship, to be observed in and by
  the assembly of God's people on the Lord's Days, as well as on other
  occasional meetings of the Saints for the worshipping of God.

  "Whether you do believe that singing in the worship of God ought to be
  done skilfully?

  "Whether you do believe that skilfulness in singing may ordinarily be
  gained in the use of outward means by the blessing of God.

  "Is it possible for Fathers of forty years old and upward to learn to
  sing by rule; and ought they to attempt at this age to learn?

  "Do you believe that it is Lawful and Laudable for us to change the
  customary way of singing the psalms?

  "Whether they who purposely sing a tune different from that which is
  appointed by the pastor or elder to be sung are not guilty of acting
  disorderly, and of taking God's name in vain also, by disturbing the
  order of the sanctuary."

Rev. Thomas Symmes, of Bradford, Mass., also issued a tract in which he contended for rule-singing.
On this point he says:--

  "The total neglect of singing psalms by many serious Christians for
  want of skill in singing psalm-tunes. There are many who never employ
  their tongues in singing God's praises, because they have no skill. It
  is with great difficulty that this part of worship is performed, and
  with great indecency in some congregations for want of skill; it is to
  be feared singing must be wholly omitted in some places for want of
  skill if this art is not revived. I was present in a congregation where
  singing was for a whole Sabbath omitted for want of a man able to lead
  the assembly in singing.

  "The declining from and getting beside the rule was gradual and
  insensible. Singing-schools and singing-books being laid aside, there
  was no way to learn, but only by hearing of tunes sung or by taking the
  run of the tunes, as it is phrased. The rules of singing not being
  taught or learnt, every one sang as best pleased himself; and every
  leading-singer would take the liberty to raise any note of the tune, or
  lower it, as best pleased his ear, and add such notes and flourishes as
  were grateful to him; and this was done so gradually as that but few if
  any took notice of it. One Clerk or Chorister would alter the tunes a
  little in his day, the next a little in his, and so one after another,
  till in fifty or sixty years it caused a considerable alteration."

John Eliot, who was having famous success with the Indians, particularly in teaching them psalm-singing,--for
Dr. Mather says "their singing was most ravishing,"--made a long contribution to the general
discussion, which contains the following "Lamentation:"--

  "That musick, which in itself is concord, harmony, melody, sweetness,
  charming even to irrational creatures, cheers the spirits of men, and
  tends to raise them in devotion, and in the praises of God, and was
  instituted by God as a means of divine worship, which is a terrour to
  evil spirits, the delight of the holy Angels, and will be everlasting
  imployment of those Seraphim and the glorified Saints, should be an
  occasion of strife, debate, discord, contention, quarelling, and all
  manner of disorder. That men, the only creatures in the lower creation
  that are accomplished with reason and apt organs to praise God with,
  should improve them so to dishonour him; and that instead of an
  angelick temper in man, which they are capable of, and is required of
  them, and especially in this matter, there should be rather a cynick
  disposition and an improvement of such noble Organ to bark, snarl at,
  and bite one another; that instead of one heart and one voice in the
  praises of our Glorious Creator and most bountiful Benefactor, there
  should be only jangle, discord, and sluring and reviling one another,
  etc., this is, and shall be, for a lamentation."

The essay closes with the following exhortation:

  "Whatever our thoughts are as to the mode or vocal part, whether the
  old or the new way (as it is called) be most pleasing to us, it
  would be our wisdom and a manifestation of our Christianity to deny
  ourselves and our own obstinate wills, which are apparently the chief
  cause of our contention in these things, and condescend (at least) so
  far one to the other as to keep time, i.e. to begin and end the lines
  all together, which if we did, there would not in most of the tunes
  commonly sung be so wide a difference as is by some imagined, many of
  the lines being near alike; if we all sincerely endeavour to exercise
  grace in Singing, and to perform the vocal part in the best manner we
  could, our service would be accepted of God. And I doubt not but
  regular singing would have a better relish with the most of our people
  and be comply'd with, and so our differences would end in a good and
  lasting union, and our jars and discords in a sweet and delightful
  concord and harmony. So let it be: Amen."

At last harmony was restored, and a serious effort was made to introduce better singing, in
which the college at Cambridge took a leading part. In 1712, Rev. John Tufts, of Newbury, issued
a book of twenty-eight tunes, so arranged by appending letters to the notes, as F for Fa, S
for Sol, etc., "that the learner may attain the skill of singing them with the greatest ease
and speed imaginable." These tunes were reprinted in three parts from Playford's "Book of Psalms."
In 1721, Rev. Thomas Walter, of Roxbury, Mass., issued a new book, also compiled from Playford,
which was highly commended by the clergy. The English singing-books by Tansur and Williams
were reprinted by Thomas Bailey, at Newburyport, Mass., and had a large circulation. In 1761,
James Lyon, of Philadelphia, published a very ambitious work, called "Urania, or a choice collection
of Psalm Tunes, Anthems, and Hymns," which was compiled from the English books. The edition,
however, was a small one, and was issued in such an expensive manner that it ruined the unfortunate
author. In 1764 appeared another collection, made by Josiah Flagg, who was a composer himself
as well as band-master. Its title reads: "A Collection of the best Psalm Tunes in two, three,
and four parts, from the most approved authors, fitted to all measures and approved by the
best masters in Boston, New England; the greater part of them never before printed in America.
Engraved by Paul Revere, printed and sold by him and Jos. Flagg." About the same time Daniel
Bailey, of Newburyport, Mass., published "A new and complete Introduction to the Grounds and
Rules of Music, in two Books;" and in 1769, "the American Harmony," reprinted from English
collections.

Up to this period, or, more strictly, to the year 1770, no American composers had contributed
to New England psalmody. Though numerous singing-books had appeared, they were compiled from
the English collections and reprinted. The first composer of church music in America was William
Billings, born at Boston, Oct. 7, 1747. He was the son of poor parents, and followed tanning
for an occupation. Gould, in his "History of Church Music," says of him:--

  "Billings was somewhat deformed in person, blind in one eye, one leg
  shorter than the other, one arm somewhat withered, with a mind as
  eccentric as his person was deformed. To say nothing of the deformity
  of his habits, suffice it, he had a propensity for taking snuff that
  may seem almost incredible, when in these days those who use it are not
  very much inclined to expose the article. He used to carry it in his
  coat-pocket, which was made of leather; and every few minutes, instead
  of taking it in the usual manner, with thumb and finger, would take out
  a handful and snuff it from between his thumb and clenched hand. We
  might infer from this circumstance that his voice could not have been
  very pleasant and delicate."

This uncouth and eccentric tanner was the father of American church music, and of American
choirs, concerts, and singing-schools as well. He wrote his first tunes on the boards of the
tannery as he tended the bark-mill. He was a zealous patriot; and as Governor Samuel Adams
was not only a still more zealous patriot, but devotedly attached to music, the two became
warm friends and at one time sang together in a choir, evidently much to the distress of Adams,
as his companion had a stentorian voice. His association with Adams led him to the composition
of songs of a patriotic and religious character, one of which, set to the tune known as "Chester,"
played an important part in rousing the martial spirit of the colonists. It runs as follows:--

    "Let tyrants shake their iron rod,
      And slavery clank her galling chains;
    We'll fear them not, we'll trust in God;
      New England's God forever reigns.

    "The foe comes on with haughty stride,
      Our troops advance with martial noise;
    Their veterans flee before our arms,
      And generals yield to beardless boys."

That the tanner had a sly humor of his own is demonstrated by the following instructions appended
to one of his anthems which was performed in a concert:--

    "We've met for a concert of modern invention;
    To tickle the ear is our present intention;
    The audience seated, expect to be treated
    With a piece of the best.

          "And since we all agree
          To set the key on E,
          The author's darling key
          He prefers to the rest,
          The bass take the lead,
          And firmly proceed;
          Let the tenor succeed," etc.

In 1770 his first compositions appeared in a work of one hundred and eight pages entitled "The
New England Psalm Singer; or American Chorister. Containing a number of Psalm Tunes, Anthems,
and Canons. In four and five parts. (Never before published.) Composed by William Billings,
a native of Boston, in New England. Matt. xii. 16, 'Out of the mouth of Babes and Sucklings
hast thou perfected Praise;' James v. 13, 'Is any merry, let him sing Psalms.'

    'O, praise the Lord with one consent,
      And in this grand design
    Let Britain and the Colonies
      Unanimously join.'

Boston: New England. Printed by Edes and Gill."

In the preface to this work he quaintly says:--

  "To all Musical Practitioners.

  "Perhaps it may be expected by some, that I could say something
  concerning rules for composition; to these I answer that Nature is the
  best Dictator, for all the hard dry studied rules that ever were
  prescribed will not enable any person to form an Air any more than the
  four and twenty letters, and strict Grammatical rules will qualify a
  scholar for composing a piece of Poetry, or properly adjusting a
  Tragedy without a Genius. It must be Nature; Nature must lay the
  Foundation, Nature must give the Thought. But perhaps some may think I
  mean and intend to throw Art entirely out of Question. I answer by no
  Means, for the more Art is displayed, the more Art is decorated. And in
  some sorts of composition there is dry Study requir'd, and Art very
  requisite. For instance, in a Fuge. But even there Art is subservient
  to Genius, for Fancy goes first, and strikes out the Work roughly, and
  Art comes after and polishes it over. But to return to my Text: I have
  read several Authors' Rules on Composition, and find the strictest of
  them make some Exceptions, as thus, they say that two 8vos or two 5ths
  may not be taken together rising or falling, unless one be Major and
  the other Minor; but rather than spoil the Air, they will allow that
  Breach to be made, and this Allowance gives great Latitude to young
  Composers, for they may always make that Plea, and say, if I am not
  allowed to transgress the Rules of composition I shall certainly spoil
  the Air, and cross the Strain that Fancy dictated. And indeed this is
  without dispute, a very just Plea, for I am sure I have often and
  sensibly felt the disagreeable and slavish Effect of such Restraint as
  is here pointed out, and so I believe every Composer of Poetry as well
  as Musick, for I presume there are strict Rules for Poetry, as for
  Musick. But as I have often heard of a Poetical License I don't see why
  with the same propriety there may not be a musical License, for Poetry
  and Musick are in close Connection, and nearly allied besides they are
  often assistants to each other, and like a true friend often hide each
  other's feelings. For I have known a Piece of Poetry that hath neither
  Rhime nor Reason in it, pass for tolerable good sense because it
  happened to be set to an excellent Piece of Musick, and to get Respect
  rather for its good Fortune in falling into such respectable company
  than for any Merit in itself: so likewise I have known and heard a very
  indifferent Tune often sung and much caress'd, only because it was set
  to a fine Piece of Poetry, without this recommendation, perhaps it
  would not be sung twice over by one Person, and would be deemed to be
  dearly bought only at the expense of Breath requisite to perform it.

  "For my own part, as I don't think myself confined to any Rules for
  Composition laid down by any that went before me, neither should I
  think (were I to pretend to lay down rules) that any who comes after me
  were any ways obligated to adhere to them any further than they should
  think proper; so in fact I think it is best for every composer to be
  his own learner. Therefore upon this consideration, for me to dictate,
  or pretend to prescribe Rules of this Nature for others, would not only
  be very unnecessary but also a very great piece of Vanity."

His second work was the "Singing Master's Assistant," an abridgment and revision of his first.
His humor again crops out in the following extract from its preface:--

  "Kind reader, no doubt you remember that about ten years ago I
  published a book entitled 'The New England Psalm-Singer;' and truly a
  most masterly performance I then thought it to be. How lavish was I of
  encomium on this my infant production! 'Welcome, thrice Welcome, thou
  legitimate Offspring of my brain, go forth my little book, go forth and
  immortalize the name of your Author: may your sale be rapid and may you
  speedily run through ten thousand Editions,' said I, 'Thou art my
  Reuben, my first born; the beginning of my Strength, the Excellency of
  my Dignity, and the Excellency of my power.' But to my great
  mortification I soon discovered it was Reuben in the sequel, and Reuben
  all over; I have discovered that many pieces  were never worth my
  printing or your inspection.

  "It is the duty of Christians to praise God publicly by singing of
  psalms together in the congregation, and also privately in the family.
  In singing of psalms the voice is to be audible and gravely ordered;
  but the chief care must be to sing with understanding and with grace in
  the heart, making melody unto the Lord. That the whole congregation may
  join therein, every one that can read is to have a psalm-book, and all
  others not disabled by age or otherwise are to be exhorted to learn to
  read. But for the present, where many in the congregation cannot read,
  it is convenient that the minister or some fit person to be appinted by
  him and the other ruling officers, do read the psalms line by line,
  before the singing thereof."

Billings's other publications were "Music in Miniature," "Psalm Singers' Amusement," "Suffolk
Harmony," and "Continental Harmony." Though the crudest of musical works, for he was entirely
unacquainted with harmony and musical rules, they had an immense influence. He was the pioneer,
and the path he cleared was soon crowded with his successors. The most prominent of these were
Andrew Law, born at Cheshire, Conn., in 1748, who published many books and taught in most of
the New England States; Jacob Kimball, born at Topsfield, Mass., in 1761, who published the
"Rural Harmony;" Oliver Holden, of Charlestown, Mass., who published the "American Harmony,"
"Union Harmony," and "Worcester Collection," and wrote the favorite tune "Coronation;" Samuel
Holyoke, born at Boxford, Mass., in 1771, author of the "Harmonia Americana" and "Columbian
Repository;" Daniel Reed, born at Rehoboth, Mass., in 1757, who published the "American Singing-Book"
and "Columbian Harmony;" Jacob French, born at Stoughton, Mass., in 1754, who issued a work
entitled "Harmony of Harmony;" Timothy Swan, born at Suffield, Conn., in 1757, who published
"Federal Harmony" and "New England Harmony," and wrote the familiar tunes "Poland" and "China;"
John Hubbard, who wrote many anthems and treatises on music; Dutton, of Hartford, Conn., who
issued the "Hartford Collection," and wrote the tune of "Woodstock;" Oliver Shaw, born at Middleborough,
Mass., in 1799, who was totally blind, but became a very successful teacher and composer. Gould
says that his compositions were "truly original," and one of them, "There's Nothing True but
Heaven," was repeated night after night by the Boston Handel and Haydn Society.

The era of psalm composers was followed by that of the singing-school teachers, who exerted
a mighty influence upon sacred music and musical taste. At the same time numerous societies
were organized, among them the Handel and Haydn Society of Boston, which was born April 20,
1815, and still exists,--a vigorous growth from the little gathering which gave its first concert
on Christmas, Dec. 25, 1815, singing the first part of "The Creation" and selections from Handel's
works, and was pronounced by an enthusiastic critic of that time "the wonder of the nation."
The great singing-teachers were Thomas Hastings of Washington, Conn., Lowell Mason of Mansfield,
Mass., Nathaniel D. Gould of Chelmsford, Mass. Still later came George F. Root, Woodbury, Dyer,
Bradbury, Ives, Johnson, and others, whose labors, both as composers and teachers, are familiar
to all lovers of sacred music even at this day. The old-fashioned singing-school, however,
has disappeared. The musical convention still survives in rural places. The great festivals,
oratorio societies, the modern concert stage, even the opera, have all had their effect upon
sacred music. The paid choir of professional musicians marks a long departure from the robust
Puritan psalm-singers; its music is equally remote from the jingling tunes of Billings which
"tickled the ears" of the colonists.

                                APPENDIX.

The following chronological  list is intended to present to the reader a statement of the more
important sacred music which has been written during the last two centuries, with its composers
and dates, for the purposes of reference.

  Allegri
    Miserere (1630).
  Arne
    Abel (1755);
    Judith (1764).
  Bach
    St. John Passion (1720);
    Magnificat in D (1723);
    St. Matthew Passion (1729);
    Christmas Oratorio (1734).
  Barnby
    Rebekah (1870).
  Beethoven
    Mount of Olives (1799-1801);
    Mass in C (1807);
    Mass in D (1822).
  Benedict
    St. Cecilia (1866);
    St. Peter (1870).
  Bennett
    Woman of Samaria (1867).
  Berlioz
    Grande Messe des Morts (1837);
    L'Enfance du Christ (1854).
  Brahms
    German Requiem (1868).
  Costa
    Eli (1855);
    Naaman (1864).
  Cusins
    Gideon (1871).
  Crotch
    Palestine (1812);
    Captivity of Judah (1834).
  David
    Moses on Sinai (1846).
  Dvorák
    Stabat Mater (1875).
  Goldschmidt
    Ruth (1867).
  Gounod
    Messe Solenelle (1850);
    Tobie (1870);
    Redemption (1883);
    Mors et Vita (1885).
  Graun
    The Death of Jesus (1755);
    Prague Te Deum (1756).
  Handel
    First Passion Oratorio (1704);
    La Resurrezione (1708);
    Il trionfo del Tempo (1708);
    Utrecht Te Deum (1713);
    Second Passion Oratorio (1716);
    Esther (1720);
    Deborah (1733);
    Athalia (1733);
    Saul (1738);
    Israel in Egypt (1738);
    Messiah (1741);
    Samson (1742);
    Joseph (1743);
    Dettingen Te Deum (1743);
    Belshazzar (1744);
    Occasional Oratorio (1745);
    Judas Maccabæus (1746);
    Alexander Balus (1747);
    Joshua (1747);
    Solomon (1748);
    Susanna (1748);
    Theodora (1749);
    Jephtha (1751).
  Haydn
    Stabat Mater (1771);
    Return of Tobias (1774);
    Mariazeller Mass (1782);
    Imperial Mass (1797);
    The Creation (1796-98);
    Te Deum (1800);
    The Seasons (1800);
    The Seven Words (1801).
  Hiller
    The Destruction of Jerusalem (1839).
  Horsley
    Gideon (1860).
  Kiel
    Requiem (1862);
    Christus (1866).
  Klein
    Job (1820);
    Jephthah (1828);
    David (1830).
  Lassus
    Penitential Psalms (1565);
    Vigiliæ Mortuorum (1565).
  Leslie
    Immanuel (1853);
    Judith (1858).
  Liszt
    Graner Mass (1854);
    Hungarian Coronation Mass (1856);
    Legend of Saint Elizabeth (1864);
    Christus (1866).
  Macfarren
    John the Baptist (1873);
    The Resurrection (1876);
    Joseph (1877).
  Mackenzie
    Rose of Sharon (1884).
  Marx
    Moses (1850).
  Massenet
    Mary Magdalen (1873);
    Eve (1875);
    The Virgin (1879).
  Mendelssohn
    Psalm cxv (1830);
    Psalm xcv (1835);
    St. Paul (1836);
    Hymn of Praise (1840);
    Elijah (1838-46);
    Christus (1844-47);
    Lauda Sion (1846).
  Meyerbeer
    God and Nature (1811).
  Mozart
    Coronation Mass (1779);
    Mass in C (1780);
    Mass in G (1785);
    Mass in B (1791);
    Ave Verum (1791);
    Requiem (1791).
  Neukomm
    Mount Sinai (1830);
    David (1834).
  Ouseley
    St. Polycarp (1854);
    Hagar (1873).
  Paine
    St. Peter (1873).
  Palestrina
    Papæ Marcelli Mass (1563);
    Stabat Mater (1589);
    Requiem (1591).
  Pergolesi
    Stabat Mater (1736).
  Pierson
    Jerusalem (1852).
  Randegger
    Psalm cl (1872).
  Reinthaler
    Jephta (1856).
  Rossini
    Moses in Egypt (1818);
    Stabat Mater (1832-41);
    Messe Solenelle (1864).
  Rubinstein
    Tower of Babel (1870);
    Paradise Lost (1876).
  Schneider (Fr.)
    The Judgement of the World (1819);
    Paradise Lost (1824);
    Pharaoh (1828);
    Christ the Child (1829);
    Gideon (1829);
    Gethsemane and Golgotha (1838).
  Schubert
    Lazarus (1820).
  Schumann
    Paradise and the Peri (1843);
    Advent Hymn (1848);
    Mass and Requiem (1852).
  Schutz
    Passions' Music (1665).
  Spohr
    The Last Judgment (1812);
    The Last Things (1826);
    Calvary (1833);
    Fall of Babylon (1840).
  Stanford
    The Three Holy Children (1885).
  Sullivan
    The Prodigal Son (1869);
    Light of the World (1873);
    Martyr of Antioch (1880).
  Verdi
    Manzoni Requiem (1874);
    Pater Noster and Ave Maria (1880).
  Vogler
    Magnificat and Stabat Mater (1777).
  Wagner
    Das Liebesmahl der Apostel (1843).
  Winter
    Pilgrimage to Calvary (1792);
    Stabat Mater (1805).

                                 INDEX.

  Ainsworth, Henry, 313.
  Albrechtsberger, 239.
  Allison, Richard, 312.
  Appendix, 329.
  Astorga, 253.
  Athalia, 21.

