       *       *       *       *       *

They rode again the next day, circling the plain where the Indian race had been run and pointing
out familiar objects. Jim led the way to the cottonwoods near where Higginbotham's "Insurance
Office" had stood.

He stopped at the very spot and said: "Little girl, do you know what happened here about a
year ago?"

"What?" she answered, as though in doubt.

"Guess."

"I can't," she replied. She would not say it. If he wanted it said, he must say it himself.

"It was here that I met 'Two Strikes.' Oh, what a blind fool I have been! If God had only given
me a little less body and a little more brain! But it's all right. He knows best. He gave me
you and I am thankful for that."

"We understand each other better now, Jim, don't we? I know you were only a child when I first
saw you. You are a boy yet, but you will soon be a man. Listen, Jim; I have not ceased to think
it over since we stood by the Spirit Rock. Do you remember what I said--you must go back to
college? I must open the way. And I will, Jim; I have it all planned out. You must go back,
not to Coulter, there are better colleges. They do not all bar married men. There is one in
Chicago; Chicago is our gateway still. The Western Theological College is there. They will
accept your year at Coulter for entrance and one year's work. I think I can get Mr. Hopkins
to let me keep on with the Mountain House. My salary and what we have saved will make us comfortable.
I can help in all your studies. In two years you will be through; then the Methodist Church,
or any other, will be glad to have you and the way will be open wide. I will not fail you.
You shall not fail to keep your word. And when we know, as we cannot know now, you will see
that God was guiding me. Maybe He took you from Coulter because you were too young; surely
He planned for us and has led us at every turn in the trail. It seems crooked now, but every
rider in the hills knows that the crooks in the trail up Cedar Mountain were made to elude
some precipice or to win some height not otherwise attainable; no other trail could end at
the Spirit Rock, the highest point, the calm and blessed outlook, the top of Cedar Mountain."

"Now, Belle, I understand. My heart told me to wait, then to go up the mountain and find the
thing I needed. I knew you would not fail; I knew my mountain meant vision for you and me."

CHAPTER LXII

When He Walked With the King

He must have been a huge, unwieldy egotistical brute who said, "Big men have ever big frames."
He might have had Samuel Johnson, Walter Scott, Lincoln or Washington in mind; but, standing
ready there to hurl the glib lie in his teeth, were Napoleon, Hamilton, St. Paul, Tamerlane,
and the Rev. Dr. Jo. Belloc, President of the Western Theological College in Chicago. He was
five feet high in his stockinged feet, thin and wiry, with a large gray head, a short gray
beard and keen gray eyes of piercing intensity. When you saw him on the street, you hardly
saw him at all; when you met him in a crowded room, you felt that the spirit behind those eyes
was a strong one; and when you heard him speak, he grew tall and taller in your eyes--you instinctively
removed your hat, for now you knew that a great man and teacher was here.

Why should such a one devote his power to mere denominationalism? Ah, you do not understand.
He answered thus to a hostile critic: "My friend, the harvest is huge, the labourers are few;
we need more, and many more than we have. If they be of simple sort and not too strong, we
teach them the sweep and cut of the scythe, the width of the swathe, the height of the stubble,
the knot of the sheaf-band, all that is safe, neither to waste the crop, nor their time, nor
cut their fellow harvesters in the legs. But, if we find a giant with his own mode, who cuts
a double swath, leaves ragged stubble, smashes oft his scythe, but saves a wondrous lot of
grain, we say: 'Praise God! You're doing well; the rules are for the helpless as the fence
is for the sheep; but you we judge by your results; keep on.'"

Dr. Belloc was in his office when there came for an interview a man who towered above him as
they shook hands. The president motioned him to a seat; then as he turned those piercing eyes
on the comely countenance of his caller, the prophet's description of the youthful David came
to his mind, "Now, he was ruddy and withal of a beautiful countenance and goodly to look to."

"What can I do for you?" asked the big little man who filled the room, but did not fill the chair.

Jim modestly stated that he believed he had a call to preach the Gospel and he wished to enter
college. Then, in answer to questions, he told his story with simple sincerity and fervour.
The keen gray eyes were glowing like coals, and although no word was spoken by the man whose
soul looked through them, Jim felt his earnest, kindly spirit. He felt, as never before, that
"here is one who understands. Here is one in whom I have absolute confidence. Here is one whom
I should love to obey."

This leader stirred Jim to the depths. His best, his inmost soul came forth to speak in response
to the master mind; and the older man smiled when he heard how the Preacher had hated the books
at Coulter. "Coulter," he said, "is a good old college, we accept their entrance; but it is
quite likely that our curriculum may more quickly win your interest than theirs did."

As the president pondered the question that had brought them together, the second part of the
lines of Samuel's description of David rose in his mind: "Arise and anoint him, for this is
he." But the college had its own way of saying these big things; documents, questions, boards,
had each a bearing on the matter, or a drop of ink to spend, and each offered a delay to the
decisive action that the President had then and there resolved on. But they slowly ran their
course and in the early autumn Jim was back, a college boy, and Belle had taken up the ruler's
post at the Club.

It was easier every month for Jim to fight the battle with the books, where before he had been
badly beaten. No doubt he was helped by his determination to win the fight and by Belle; but
the two great reasons were that he, himself, was more developed--had outgrown the childish
restlessness of the first attempt; and last but strongest of all, was the compelling personality
of the president. With what consummate tact had he first offered to Jim's wild spirit the concrete,
the simple, the history of to-day, the things that clearly were of immediate use; and later--much
later, and in lesser degree--the abstruse, the doctrinal. And when the younger mind of the
student came to a place that seemed too hard, or met a teacher who was deadening in his dullness,
it needed but a little heart-to-heart talk with the strong soul in the robe to brace him up,
to spur him on.

The president soon discovered Jim's love for heroic verse and at once, by wise selection, made
it possible to tie that up with books. When Jim betrayed his impatience of fine-split doctrines,
the president bade him forget them and read the lives of Luther, Calvin, and Wesley--take in
the facts; the principles, so far as they had value, would take care of themselves. Such methods
were unknown to his former teachers. Such presentation--vivid, concrete, human--was what he
could understand, and accept with joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

