Soon afterwards, one of his richer college companions, whose convictions were stronger than
his power of expressing them, was selected as Candidate for a remote constituency, where speakers
were not easily obtained. The glib Barrister was remembered, and appealed to. At an immense
sacrifice of time and money, he rushed to the rescue, his travelling and hotel expenses being
defrayed by the Candidate. He spoke much, he spoke triumphantly; he referred, in touching terms,
to the ties of ancient friendship that bound him to the noblest and best of men, the Candidate;
and, when the latter was eventually elected, it was stated in every Metropolitan evening paper
that he owed his success chiefly to the eloquence and energy of the able Barrister who had
pleaded his cause. Henceforward there was no peace, politically speaking, for the Barrister.
Swifter than swift CAMILLA he scoured the plain facts of political controversy at meeting after
meeting, until they glowed under the dazzled eyes of innumerable electors. Where Leagues congregated,
or Unions met, or Associations resolved, there he was to be found, always eager, in the fore-front
of the battle. He became the cheap jackal of the large political lions who roar after their
food throughout the length and breadth of the land, and picked up scraps in the shape of votes
of thanks to chairmen. He figured at political receptions, and eventually contested a hopeless
Constituency, with the assistance of the party funds. Having, by his complete defeat, established
a claim on the gratitude of his party, he applied successively for a Recordership, a Police
Magistracy, and a County Court Judgeship, but was compelled to be satisfied temporarily with
the post of Revising Barrister. Yet, though he was disgusted with the base ingratitude of time-serving
politicians, he was by no means disheartened, for he had long since become convinced that the
best method of self-seeking was to seek office, and to clamour if that should be refused. Finally,
after having paid to have his portrait engraved in a struggling party journal, and having appended
to it a description, in which he compared himself to ERSKINE and the younger PITT, he became
an annoyance to those who were his leaders at the Bar, or in politics. He was, therefore, appointed
Chief Justice of the Soudan; and after distributing British justice to savages, at a cheap
rate, for several years, he retired upon a pension, and was heard of no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT'S LITTLE HOLLERDAY.

Easter Munday I dewoted to Epping Forrest. I draws a whale over my feelings when I looked out
of my bed-room winder and seed the rain a cumming down in bucket-fulls! But a true Waiter can
allus afford to Wait.

  "Late as you likes, but never hurly,
  Seldom cross, and never surly,
  The jowial Waiter gos to his work,
  And enwys no Hethun nor yet no Turk!"

And I had my reward, for at 12.20 A.M. the jolly old sun bust forth, as much as to say, "it
was only my fun!" So off I started by Rail, along with about a thowsand others, in such a jolly,
rattling Nor-Wester, that the River Lea looked more like a arm of the foming Hocean than a
mere tuppenny riwer. But the sun was nice and warm till about 1.30, when, just for a change,
I suppose, down came a nice little shower of snow! and then more warm sun, and then plenty
more cold wind, and then lots of rain. So them as likes wariety had plenty of it that day.