England, that is to say, the corrupt nobility of the kingdom, by  taking upon itself that decision,
refused to submit the question  to the arbitration of the Pope; and thus, for the first time,
the principles which had guided Christendom for eight hundred  years, were discarded. Yet,
under Mary, the Catholic Church had  been declared the Church of the state; at her death, no
change  took place; the mass of the people was still Catholic. It took  Elizabeth her whole
reign to make the English a thoroughly  Protestant people. The great mass of the nation came
consequently then, even legally, under the law of mediaeval  times, which surrendered the decision
of such cases into the  hands of the Roman Pontiff.

Again, when we reflect that our preset object is the  consideration of who was the legitimate
Queen of Ireland, the  question becomes clearer and simpler still. The supremacy of  Henry
VIII. had never been acknowledged in the island, even by  those who had subscribed to the decrees
of the Parliament of  1541 and 1569. The Irish chieftains had not only never assented,  but
had always preserved their independence in all, save the  suzerainty of the English monarchs,
and they were at the time,  without exception, Catholics. For them, therefore, the Pope was
the expounder of the law of succession to the throne, as, up to  that time, he had been generally
recognized in Europe. Elizabeth, consequently, as an acknowledged illegitimate child, could
not  become a legitimate queen without a positive declaration and  election by the true representatives
of the people, approved by  the Pope. Her assumption, then, of the supreme government was a
mere usurpation. The theory of governments de facto being obeyed  as quasi-legitimate had not
yet been mooted among lawyers and  theologians. With respect to the whole question, there can
be no  doubt as to the conclusion at which any able constitutional  jurist of our days would
arrive.

Could usurped rights such as these invest Elizabeth with  authority to declare herself paramount
not only in political but  also in religious matters? And, because she was called queen,  can
it be considered treason for an Irishman to believe in the  spiritual supremacy of the Pope?
Yet, unless we look upon as  martyrs those who died on the rack and the gibbet in Ireland 
during her reign, because they refused to admit in a woman the  title of Vicar of Christ, to
such decision must we come.

The policy of the English queen toward Catholic bishops, priests, and monks, presents the question
in a still stronger light. Its  chief feature will now come before us, and will show how all
of  these suffered for Christ. We say all, because not only those  are included in the category
who held aloof from politics and  confined themselves to the exercise of their spiritual functions,
but those also who, at the bidding of the Pope, or following  the natural promptings of their
own inclinations, favored the so- called rebellion of the Geraldine and of the Ulster chieftains.
The lives and death of both are now well known, and to both we  award the title of heroes and
Christian martyrs.

As it would be too long to present here a complete picture of  those events, and trace the
biography of many of those who  suffered persecution at that time, we content ourselves with
two  faithful representatives of the classes above mentioned--Richard  Creagh, Archbishop of
Armagh, and Dr. Hurley, Archbishop of  Cashel. The case of the great Oliver Plunkett, who suffered
under Charles II., and who was the victim of the entire English  nation, is beyond our present
discussion.

The biography of the first of these has been written by several  authors, who, agreeing as
to the main facts of his history,  differ only in their chronology. Dr. Roothe's account is
the  longest of all and is intricate, and subject to some confusion  with regard to dates;
but a sketch of that life, which appeared  in the Rambler of April, 1853, is the most consistent
and easily  reconciled with the well-known facts of the general history of  the period, and
therefore we follow it:

Richard Creagh, proposed for the See of Armagh by the nuncio,  David Wolfe, arrived at Limerick
in the August of 1560, at the  very beginning of the reign of Elizabeth. Pius IV., who was
then  Pontiff, had not come to any conclusion respecting the  sovereignty of England, and did
not openly declare himself in  favor of the right of Mary Stuart to the crown. The Pope, not
having given any positive injunctions to Archbishop Creagh, with  regard to his political conduct,
the latter was left free to  follow the dictates of his conscience. He came only with a  letter,
to Shane O'Neill, who, at the time, was almost  independent in Ulster.

Not only did the archbishop not take any part in the political  measures of the Ulster chieftain,
who was often at war with  Elizabeth, but he soon came to a disagreement with him on purely
conscientious grounds, and finally excommunicated him. In the  midst of the many difficulties
which surrounded him, he resolved  to inculcate peace and loyalty to Elizabeth throughout Ulster,
asking of Shane only one favor, that of founding colleges and  schools, and thinking that,
by remaining loyal to the queen, he  might obtain her assistance in founding a university.
The good  prelate little knew the character of the woman with whom he had  to deal, imagining
probably that the decree of her spiritual  supremacy would remain a dead letter for the priesthood,
as had  been falsely promised to the laity.

But he was not left long to indulge in these delusions; for, in  the act of celebrating mass
in a monastery of his diocese, he  was betrayed by some informer, and was arrested by a troop
of  soldiers, who conducted him before the government authorities,  by whom he was sent to
London and confined in the Tower on  January 18,1565. He was there several times interrogated
by  Cecil and the Recorder of London, who could easily ascertain  that the prelate was altogether
guiltless of political intrigue.

He escaped miraculously, passed through Louvain, went to Spain,  at the time at peace with
England, and, wishing to return to  Ireland, wrote, through the Spanish ambassador, to Leicester,
then all-powerful with the queen, to protest beforehand that, if  the Pope should order him
to return to his diocese, he intended  only to render to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God
what is  God's. Even then, after his prison experience of several months,  he thought that,
if he could persuade Elizabeth that he was  truly loyal to her, she would forgive him his Catholicity.

Receiving no answer, he set sail for his country, where he  landed in August, 1566, and shortly
after wrote to Sir Henry  Sidney, then lord-deputy, in the very terms he had used with  Leicester,
and proposing in addition to use his efforts in  inducing Shane O'Neill to conclude peace.

What Sidney and his masters in London, Cecil and Leicester, must  have thought of the simplicity
of this good man, it is  impossible to say. They condescended to return no answer to his  more
than straightforward communication, save the short verbal  reply concerning O'Neill: "We have
given forth speach of his  extermination by war." 	

The good prelate, after having so clearly defined his position,  thought he might safely follow
the dictates of his conscience,  and govern his flock in peace; but he was soon taken prisoner,
in April, 1567, by O'Shaughnessy, who received a special letter  of thanks from Elizabeth for
his services on this occasion.

Bv order of the queen, he was tried in Dublin; but, so clear was  the case before them, that
even a Protestant jury could not  convict him. The honest Dublin jurors were therefore cast
into  prison and heavily fined, while the prelate was once again  transferred to London, whence
he a second time escaped by the  connivance of his jailor.

Retaken in 1567, he was handed over to the queen's officers,  under a pledge that his life
would be spared. And, in  consequence of this pledge alone, was he never brought to trial,
but kept a close prisoner in the Tower for eighteen years, until  in 1585 he was, according
to all reliable accounts, deliberately  poisoned.

This simple narrative certainly proves that in Elizabeth's eyes,  the mere sustaining the Pope's
spiritual supremacy was treason,  and every Catholic consequently, because Catholic, a traitor
deserving death. True, the Irish prelates, monks, and people,  might have imitated the majority
of the English nobles and  people in accepting the new dogma. In that case, they would have
become truly loyal and dutiful subjects, and been admitted to  all the rights of citizenship;
the nobles would have retained  possession of their estates, the gentry obtained seats in the
Irish Parliament; while the common people, renouncing clanship,  absurd old traditions, the
memory of their ancestors, together  with their obedience to the See of Rome, would not have
been  excluded from the benefits of education; would have been allowed  to engage in trades
and manufactures; would have been permitted  to keep their land, or hold it by long leases;
would have  enjoyed the privilege of dwelling in walled towns and cities, if  they felt no
inclination for agriculture. They would have become  no doubt "a highly-prosperous" nation,
as the English and Scotch  of our days have become, partakers of all the advantages of the
glorious British Constitution, cultivating the fields of their  ancestors, and converting their
beautiful island into a paradise  more enchanting than the rich meadows and wheat-fields of
England itself.

On the other hand, they would have obtained all those temporal  advantages at the expense of
their faith, which no one had a  right to take from them; in their opinion, and in that of
millions of their fellow-Catholics, they would have forfeited  their right to heaven, and the
Irish have always been  unreasonable enough to prefer heaven to earth. They have  preferred,
as the holy men of old of whom St. Paul speaks, "to  be stoned, cut asunder, tempted, put to
death by the sword, to  wander about in sheep-skins, in oat-skins; being in want,  distressed,
afflicted, of whom the word was not worthy;  wandering in deserts, in mountains, in dens, and
in the caves of  the earth, being approved by the testimony of faith:" that is to  say, having
the testimony of their conscience and the approval  of God, and considering this better than
worldly prosperity and  earthly happiness.

Turning now to those prelates, monks, and priests, who during  Elizabeth's reign took part
in Irish politics against the queen,  can we on that account deny them the title of martyrs
to their  faith?

Dr. Hurley, Archbishop of Cashel, whose memoirs were published  by Miles O'Reilly, may be taken
as a type of this class. Suppose, as well grounded, although never proved, the suspicion of
the  English Government with regard to his political mission.  Prelates and priests, generally
speaking, were put to death  under Elizabeth, or confined to dungeons on mere suspicion, and,
as we have seen in the case of the Archbishop of Armagh, even  clear proofs of their innocence
would not save them.

On his father's side, Dr. Hurley was naturally in the interest  of James Geraldine, Earl of
Desmond; and, on his mother's, he  belonged to the royal family of O' Briens of Munster.  Consecrated
Archbishop of Cashel at Rome in 1550, under Gregory  XIII., during the Geraldine rebellion,
he was compelled to use  the utmost precaution in entering Ireland. The police of  Elizabeth
was particularly active at that time in hunting up  priests and monks throughout the whole
island, but particularly  in the south.

The archbishop escaped all these dangers, and he avoided the  certain denunciation of Walter
Baal, the Mayor of Dublin  probably, who was then actually persecuting his mother, Dame  Eleanor
Birmingham; he fled to the castle of Thomas Fleming, who  concealed him in a secret chamber
in his house and treated him  as a friend. But when everybody thought the danger past, and
that it was no longer imprudent for him to mix in the society of  the castle, he was suspected
by an Anglo-Irishman of the name of  Dillon, denounced by him, and finally surrendered by Thomas
Fleming, and conveyed to Dublin, where proceedings were set on  foot against him by the Irish
Council and the queen's ministers  in England.

His imprisonment was coincident with the suppression of the  rising in Munster, and the Earl
of Desmond was beginning that  frightful outlaw-life which only ended with his miserable death.

The object of the archbishop's accusers was to connect him with  the designs of Rome and the
Munster insurrection; and the state  papers preserved in London have disclosed to us the  correspondence
between Adam Loftus, the Protestant Archbishop of  Dublin, on the one side, and Walsingham
and Cecil on the other.

The only proofs of the Archbishop's having joined the southern  confederacy were: 1. Suspicions,
as he was consecrated in Rome  about the time of the sailing of the expedition under James
Fitzmaurice; 2. The information of a certain Christopher  Barnwell, then in jail, who was promised
his life if he could  furnish proofs enough to convict the prelate. The value of the  testimony
of an "informer" under such circumstances is  proverbial; yet all Barnwell could allege was,
that "he was  present at a conversation in Rome between Dr. Hurley and  Cardinal Comensis,
the Pope's secretary, and, the result of the  whole conversation was, "that the doctor did
not know nor  believe that the Earl of Kildare had joined the rebellion of  Fitzmaurice and
Desmond, and he was rebuked by the cardinal for  not believing it."

This was considered overwhelming proof against him, in spite of  his positive denial. Torture
was applied, but the most awful  sufferings could not wring from him the acknowledgment of
having  taken part in the conspiracy. Yet Loftus and Wallop were of  opinion that he was a
"rebel" and ought to be put to death. The  only difficulty which presented itself to the "Lords
Justices"  of Ireland was, that there was no statute in Ireland against  "traitors" who had
plotted beyond the seas, and they asked that  the archbishop should either be sent to be tried
in England, or  tried in Ireland by martial law, which would screen them from  responsibility.

This last favor was granted them; and the holy archbishop was  taken from prison at early dawn,
on a Friday, either in May or  June, 1584. He was barbarously hanged in a withey (withe)  calling
on God, and forgiving his torturers with all his heart.

Our purpose is not to inveigh against this judicial murder, and,  by further details, increase
the horror which every honest man  must feel at the narrative of such atrocious proceedings.
We  will suppose, on the contrary, that the cooperation of the  Archbishop of Cashel with Fitzmaurice
and Desmond, and even with  the Pope and King of Spain, had been clearly proved--as it is 
certain that, if not in this case, at least in some others,  during the reign of Elizabeth,
the bishops or priests accused  had really taken part in the attempt of the Irish to free 
themselves from such tyranny--and insist that, even then, the  murdered Catholic ecclesiastics
really died for their religion,  and could be called "rebels" in no sense whatever.

First, the question might arise as to how far the Irish were  subject to the English crown.
We have seen how, a few years  before, Gillapatrick, of Ossory, asserted his right of making
war on England, when he felt sufficient provocation. Under  Elizabeth the case was still clearer,
at least for Catholics,  after the excommunication of the queen by Pius V. As we have  seen,
the chief title of England to Ireland rested on two  pretended papal bulls: another Pope could
and did recall the  grant, which had been founded on misrepresentation. Up to that  time, there
had been no real subjection by conquest, outside of  the Pale, which formed but an insignificant
part of the island.

Under such circumstances, it must at least be admitted that a  radically and clearly unjust
law, imposed by a foreign though  perhaps suzerain power, could be justly resisted by force
of  arms. And such was the case in Ireland. The Queen of England--  the Irish Parliament of
1539 had no other authority than that of  the queen, and represented no part of the people--had
made it  rebellion for the Irish to remain faithful to their religion.  What could prevent
the Irish from resisting such pretension,  even at the cost of effusion of blood? The early
Christians,  under the Roman Empire, it is true, never rose in arms against  the bloody edicts
of the Caesars or the Antonines; but the cases  are not parallel.

Suppose that Greece or Asia Minor had never succumbed to the  Roman power, and had become entirely
Christian: no one would  refuse to admit their right to offer armed resistance to the  extension
of the edicts of persecution into their territory. On  the contrary, it would have been their
duty to do so: and every  one of their inhabitants, who was taken and executed as a rebel,
would have been crowned with the martyr's crown.

At this point, indeed, comes in the consideration of the special  motive which animated each
belligerent, even when fighting on  the right side. We are far from saying that all the Irishmen,
particularly the leaders and chieftains who at that time ranged  themselves under the banners
of the Desmonds or the O'Neills,  fought purely for Christ and religion. Many of them, no doubt,
engaged in the contest from mere worldly motives, perhaps even  for purposes unworthy of Christians;
and in this case, those who  fell in the struggle were in no sense soldiers of Christ.

But how many such are to be found among the bishops, priests, or  monks, who perished under
Elizabeth? May it not be said of them  that, to a man, they fell for the sake of religion?
We may even  be bold enough to say that the majority of the common Irish  people who lost their
lives in those wars may be placed in the  same category as their spiritual rulers, being in
reality the  upholders of right and the champions of Catholicity.

Let it be remembered that, at the period of which we speak, the  only real question involved
in the contest was gradually  assuming more and more a religious character. Henry VIII. and
his deputy, St. Leger, had struck a fatal blow at clanship and  Irish institutions in general,
by bestowing on and compelling  the chieftains to accept English titles, and by investing them
with new deeds of their lands under feudal tenure. By Elizabeth,  the same policy was steadily
and successfully pursued, her court  being always graced by the presence of young Irish lords,
educated under her own eyes, and loaded with all her royal  favors. All she asked of them in
return was that they should  become Queen's men. The repugnance once felt by Irishmen for 
that gilded slavery was each day becoming less marked. But,  while every thing was seemingly
working so well for the  attainment of Elizabeth's object at the commencement of her  reign,
a new feature suddenly shows itself, and grows rapidly  into prominence --the attachment of
the Irish to their religion,  and the violent opposition to the change always kept foremost
in  view by the queen, namely the substitution of her spiritual  supremacy for that of the Pope.

Thus we find the Irish leaders, when proclaiming their  grievances, either on the eve of war,
or the signing of a treaty  of peace, always giving their religious convictions the first 
place on the list. The religious question, then, was becoming  more and more the question,
and, notwithstanding all her fine  assurances that she would not infringe upon the religious
predilections of the laity, Elizabeth's great purpose, in  Ireland and in England, was to destroy
Catholicity, by  destroying the priesthood, root and-branch.

The nobles showed how fully convinced they were of this, when  they carne to adopt a system
of concealment, even of duplicity,  to which Irishmen ought never to have been weak enough
to submit. Not only were the practices of their religion confined to  places where no Englishman
or Protestant could penetrate, but  gradually they allowed their houses--those sanctuaries
of  freedom--to be invaded by the pursuivants of the queen,  searching for priests or monks
"lately arrived from Rome."

Secret apartments were constructed by skilful architects in  noblemen's manors; recesses were
artfully contrived under the  roofs, in roomy staircases, or even in basements and cellars.
There the unfortunate minister of religion was confined for  weeks and months, creeping forth
only at night, to breathe the  fresh air at the top of the house or in the thick shrubbery
of  the adjoining park. All the means of evading the law used by the  Christians of the first
centuries were reproduced and resorted  to in Catholic Ireland by chieftains who possessed
the "secret  promise" of the queen that their religion should not be  interfered with, and
that her supremacy should not be enforced  against them.

Not thus did the people act: their keen sense of injustice took  in at once all the circumstances
of the case. It was a religious  persecution, nothing else; and this the nobles also felt in
their inmost souls. The people saw the ministers of religion  hunted down, seized, dragged
to prison, tried, convicted,  barbarously executed; they recognized it in its reality as a
sheer attempt to destroy Catholicity, and as such they opposed  it by every means in their
power. They beheld the monks and  friars treated as though they had been wild beasts; the soldiers
falling on them wherever they met them, and putting them to  death with every circumstance
of cruelty and insult, without  trial, without even the identification required for outlaws.
Mr.  Miles O'Reilly's book, "Irish Martyrs," is full of cases of this  kind. Hence the people
frequently offered open resistance to the  execution of the law; the soldiers had to disperse
the mob; but  the real mob was the very troop commanded by English officers.

When at length the Irish lords no longer dared offer asylum to  the outlawed priesthood in
their manors and castles, the hut of  the peasant lay open to them still. The greater the quantity
of  blood poured out by the executors of the barbarous laws, the  greater the determination
of the people to protect the oppressed  and save the Lord's anointed.

Then opened a scene which had never been witnessed, even under  the most cruel persecutions
of the tyrants of old Rome. The  whole strength of the English kingdom had been called into
play  to crush the Irish nobility during the wars of Ulster and  Munster; the whole police
of the same kingdom was now put in  requisition for the apprehension and destruction of church-men.
Nay, from this very occupation, the great police system which  since that time has flourished
in most European states, arose,  being invented or at least perfected for the purpose.

