There is, of course, an element of individual gamble to those who enter this competition. Undoubtedly
there will be many failures, as in all new fields; failures come to those who put in capital
as well as those who contribute their scientific knowledge. But by the same token there will
be great successes both financially and scientifically. The prize that is being striven for
is one of the richest that have ever been offered and the rewards will be in accordance. This
has been the case at the birth of every great development in human progress and will undoubtedly
be the case with the science of flight. Until a field becomes standardized it offers extremes
on both sides rather than a dull, dreary, but safe average.

As aviation runs into every phase of activity it will require every kind of man--manufacturer,
scientist, mechanic, and flier. It offers problems more interesting and more complex than almost
any others in the world. The field is new and virgin, the demand world-wide, and the rewards
great. For the flier there is all the joy of life in the air, above the chains of the earth,
reaching out to new, unvisited regions, free to come and go for almost any distance at any
level desired, a freedom unparalleled. For the manufacturer there is all the lure of a new
product destined in a short time to be used as freely as the automobile of to-day; for the
scientist there are problems of balance, meteorology, air pressure, engine power, wing spread,
altitude effects, and the like in a bewildering variety; for the explorer, the geographer,
the map-maker a wholly new field is laid open.

The best men of every type are needed to give aviation its full fruition. In Europe this is
realized to a supreme degree. England especially, and also France and Italy, have put their
best genius at work to fulfil the conquest of the air. Their progress is astonishing and should
be a challenge to the New World. After the natural hiatus which followed the armistice the
leading men have set to work with redoubled vigor to take first place in the air.

In twenty years' time our life of to-day will seem centuries old, just as to-day it is hard
to realize that the automobile and motor-truck do not date back much over a generation. No
change that has ever come in man's history will be so great as the change which takes him up
off the ground and into the air. This swift and dazzling era that is so close upon us is hardly
suspected by the great mass of people. The world will be both new and better for it. Less than
the train or the motor-car will the airplane disturb its features. On the blue above white
wings will glitter for a moment, a murmuring as of bees will be heard, and the traveler will
be gone, the world unstained and pure. Meanwhile high in the clouds, perhaps lost to view of
the earth, men will be speeding on at an unparalleled rate, guiding their course by the wireless
which alone gives them connection with the world below.

Has there ever in all history been an appeal such as this?

ADDENDUM

A PAGE IN THE DICTIONARY FOR AVIATORS

What is to become of all the new words, some of them with new meanings, the old words with
new meanings, and the new words with old meanings, coined by the aviators of the American and
British flying services in the war? Are they to die an early death from lack of nourishment
and lack of use, or will they go forward, full-throated into the dictionary, where they may
belong? Here are just a few of them, making a blushing début, so that it may be seen at once
just how bad they are:

  AEROBATICS--A newly coined word to describe aerial "stunting,"
    which includes all forms of the sport of looping, spinning, and
    rolling. The term originated in the training schedule for
    pilots, and all pilots must take a course in aerobatics before
    being fully qualified.

  AEROFOIL--Any plane surface of an airplane designed to obtain
    reaction on its surfaces from the air through which it moves.
    This includes all wing surface and most of the tail-plane
    surface.

  AILERON--This is a movable plane, attached to the outer
    extremities of an airplane wing. The wing may be either raised
    or lowered by moving the ailerons. Raising the right wing, by
    depressing the right aileron, correspondingly lowers the left
    wing by raising the left aileron. They exercise lateral control
    of a machine.

  BLIMP--A non-rigid dirigible balloon. The dirigible holds its
    shape due to the fact that its gas is pumped into the envelop to
    a pressure greater than the atmosphere. It can move through the
    air at forty miles an hour, but high speed will cause it to
    buckle in the nose.

  BUMP--A rising or falling column of air which may be met while
    flying. A machine will be bumped up or bumped down on a bumpy
    day. A hot day over flat country, at noon, will generally be
    exceedingly bumpy.

  CRASH--Any airplane accident. It may be a complete wreck or the
    plane may only be slightly injured by a careless landing.
    Crashes are often classified by the extent of damage. A class A
    crash, for instance, is a complete washout. A class D crash is
    an undercarriage and propeller broken.

  DOPE--A varnish-like liquid applied to the linen or cotton wing
    fabrics. It is made chiefly of acetone, and shrinks the fabric
    around the wooden wing structure until it becomes as tight as a
    drum. The highly polished surface lessens friction of the plane
    through the air.

  DRIFT--Head resistance encountered by the machine moving through
    the air. This must be overcome by the power of the engine. The
    term is also used in aerial navigation in its ordinary sense,
    and a machine flying a long stretch over water may drift off the
    course, due to winds of which the pilot has no knowledge.

  DUD--A condition of being without life or energy. An engine may be
    dud; a day may be dud for flying. A shell which will not explode
    is a dud. A pilot may be a dud, without skill. It is almost a
    synonym for washout.

  FLATTEN Out--To come out of a gliding angle into a horizontal
    glide a few feet from the ground before making a landing. The
    machine loses flying speed on a flat glide, and settles to the
    ground.

  FLYING SPEED--Speed of a plane fast enough to create lift with its
    wing surfaces. This varies with the type of plane from
    forty-five miles an hour as a minimum to the faster scout
    machines which require seventy miles an hour to carry them
    through the air. When a machine loses flying speed, due to
    stalling, it is in a dangerous situation, and flying speed must
    be recovered by gliding, or the machine will fall into a spin
    and crash out of control.

  FORCED LANDING--Any landing for reasons beyond the control of a
    pilot is known as a forced landing. Engine failure is chiefly
    responsible. Once the machine loses its power it must go into a
    glide to maintain its stability, and at the end of the glide it
    must land on water, trees, fields, or roofs of houses in towns.

  FUSELAGE--This word, meaning the body of a machine, came over from
    the French. The cockpits, controls, and gasolene-tanks are
    usually carried in the fuselage.

  HOP--Any flight in an airplane or seaplane is a hop. A hop may
    last five minutes or fifteen hours.

  JOY-STICK--The control-stick of an airplane was invented by a man
    named Joyce, and for a while it was spoken of as the
    Joyce-stick, later being shortened to the present form. It
    operates the ailerons and elevators.

  LANDFALL--A sight of land by a seaplane or dirigible which has
    been flying over an ocean course. An aviator who has been
    regulating his flight by instruments will check up his
    navigation on the first landfall.

  PANCAKE--An extremely slow landing is known as a pancake landing.
    The machine almost comes to a stop about ten feet off the
    ground, and with the loss of her speed drops flat. There is
    little forward motion, and this kind of landing is used in
    coming down in plowed fields or standing grain. Jules Vedrines
    made his landing on the roof of the Galeries Lafayette in Paris
    by "pancaking."

  SIDE-SLIP--The side movement of a plane as it goes forward. On an
    improperly made turn a machine may side-slip out--that is, in
    the direction of its previous motion, like skidding. It may
    side-slip in, toward the center of the turn, due to the fact
    that it is turned too steeply for the degree of the turn.
    Side-slipping on a straight glide is a convenient method of
    losing height before a landing.

  STALL--A machine which has lost its flying speed has stalled. This
    does not mean that its engine has stopped, but in the flying
    sense of the word means that friction of the wing surfaces has
    overcome the power of the engine to drive the machine through
    the air. The only way out of a stall is to regain speed by
    nosing down. A machine which has lost its engine power will not
    stall if put into a glide, and it may be brought to a safe
    landing with care.

  STRUT--The upright braces between the upper and lower wings of a
    machine are called struts. They take the compression of the
    truss frame of the biplane or triplane. Each wing is divided
    into truss sections with struts.

  S-TURN--A gliding turn, made without the use of engine power. A
    machine forced to seek a landing will do a number of S-turns to
    maneuver itself into a good field.

  TAIL SPIN--This is the most dreaded of all airplane accidents, and
    the most likely to be fatal. A machine out of control, due often
    to stalling and falling through the air, spins slowly as it
    drops nose first toward the ground. This is caused by the
    locking of the rudder and elevator into a spin-pocket on the
    tail, which is off center, and which receives the rush of air.
    The air passing through it gives it a twisting motion, and the
    machine makes about one complete turn in two or three hundred
    feet of fall, depending upon how tight the spin maybe. The
    British speak of the spin as the spinning nose dive.

  TAKE-OFF--This is the start of the machine in its flight. After a
    short run over the ground the speed of the machine will create
    enough lift so that the plane leaves the ground.

  TAXI--To move an airplane or seaplane on land or water under its
    own power when picking out a starting-place, or coming in after
    a landing. This is not to be confused with the run for a start
    when the plane is getting up speed to fly, using all her power.
    The NC-4 "taxied" a hundred miles to Chatham after a forced
    landing, and the NC-3 came in two hundred and five miles to
    Ponta Delgada after she landed at sea.

  VERTICAL BANK--In this position the machine is making a turn with
    one wing pointing directly to the ground, and its lateral axis
    has become vertical. The machine turns very quickly in a short
    space of air, and the maneuver is sometimes spoken of as a
    splitting vertical bank. In a vertical bank the elevators of a
    machine act as the rudder and the rudder as an elevator. The
    controls are reversed.

