Brown. It was my duty. But still I had no wish to be guilty of an outrage.

Jones. An outrage--how an outrage?

Brown. Had I known you had been present to hear me I would not have caused you the pain of
listening to me.

Jones (with admiration). But it was the act of a brave man! Did it not occur to you that had
I been within reach of you that you too would have suffered pain?

Brown. It did not, I was unconscious of your presence. I would have preferred to have spoken
behind your back. It is brutal to speak before any face. It might lead to an unpleasantness.

Jones. No, it is your duty to do what you think is right. It is also my duty to do what I think
is right. We are now face to face. Have you anything further to say to me?

Brown (hurriedly). You have immense gifts--gifts which are those of genius.

Jones. I thought you would understand me better when we met. My dear friend, I am delighted
at this reconciliation. Give me your hand.

Brown (clasping palms). With all the pleasure in the world. But still I owe you reparation.
How can I--

Jones (interrupting). Not another word, my dear friend. That is a matter we can leave in the
hands of our Solicitors.

    [Scene closes in upon the suggestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

It is curious to find a coincidence in style and in idea between an earnest, witty and pious
English author of the Sixteenth Century, and an American author of our own day. Yet so it is,
and here is the parallel to be found between the quaint American tales about the old negro,
Uncle Remus, by JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS, in this year of Grace, 1892, and the fables writ by Sir
THOMAS MORE in 1520, or thereabouts, which he represents as if told him by an old wife and
nurse, one Mother MAUD. Here are "The Wolf,"--"Brer Wolf"--and the simple-minded Jackass, both
are going to confession to Father Fox--"Brer Fox." Æsop is, of course, the common origin of
all such tales. The extracts which I have come across, are to be found in a small book compiled
by the Rev. THOMAS BRIDGETT, entitled, The Wit and Wisdom of Sir Thomas More. The Baron wishes
that with it had been issued a glossary of old English words and expressions, as, to an ordinary
modern reader, much of Sir THOMAS MORE's writing is well-nigh unintelligible; nay, in some
instances, the Baron can only approximately arrive at the meaning, as though it were a writ
in a foreign language with which his acquaintance was of no great profundity. Certes, the learned
and reverend compiler hath a keen relish for this quaintness, but not so will fifteen out of
his twenty readers, who, pardie! shall regret the absence of a key without which some of the
treasure must, to them at least, remain inaccessible. With this reservation, but with no sort
of equivocation, doth the Baron heartily recommend The Reverend BRIDGETT's compilation of Sir
THOMAS MORE's "English as she is writ" in the Sixteenth Century, to all lovers of good books
in this "so-called (O, immortal phrase!) Nineteenth Century." The Rev. THOMAS hath well and
ably done his work, and therefore doth the Baron advise his readers to go to their booksellers,
and, being there, to imitate the example of DICKENS's oft-quoted Oliver, and "ask for MORE."

Quoth the Baron, "Much liketh me the Macmillanite series of English Men of Action, and in a
very special manner do I laud the latest that, to my knowledge, hath appeared 'yclept Montrose,
by Master MOWBRAY MORRIS--a good many 'M's' in these names--who hath executed his Montrose
with as loving a heart and as tender a touch as ever did use old IZAAK towards the gentle that
he, and the simple fish, did love so well. Did not the very hangman burst into tears as he
thrust the unfortunate nobleman off the step? and did not a universal sob of pity break from
the vast crowd assembled to see the last of the noble cavalier, victim to an unfortunate tradition
of loyalty? What wonder then if we sympathise with this luckless hero of romance? The weak-knee'd
villain of this historical drama was 'Charles (his friend),' in which character, be it allowed,
this sad dog of a Merry Monarch not infrequently appeared. Thank you much, Mr. MOWBRAY MONTROSE
MORRIS," quoth

THE BENEFICENT BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

APRIL SHOWERS;

OR, A SPOILED EASTER HOLIDAY.

(A VACATION CANTATA.)

Master George (stretching forth his fingers to feel if the shower is
abating) sings:--      Rain! Rain!
        Go away!
      Come again
        Another day!

Master Arthur (gloomily). Pooh! Rain won't go away, not in these
times,
    By being sung at to old nursery rhymes:
    Especially in such a voice as yours!

Master George. Needn't be nasty, ARTHUR!

Master Robert.                         How it pours!
    Thought we were going to have a real jolly day,
    And now it's set in wet, to spoil our holiday.

Master George. Always the way at Easter. Shall we trudge it?

Master Arthur. Not yet. What have you got, GEORGE, in your Budget?

Master George. Not very much, I fear!

Master Arthur.                      Ah, that's vexatious!
    It might have cheered us up a bit.

Master George (indignantly). Good gracious!
    You're always down on me, with no good reasons.
    You know I'm not the ruler of the Seasons.
    Now if I'd been in your place--but no matter!

Master Robert. By Jingo, how the raindrops rush and clatter!
    Ah, Primrose-gathering is not half so jolly
    As once it used to be.

Master Arthur.           Ah! my dear SOLLY,
    The springs are now so awfully wet and cold,
    The "cry" don't seem so fetching as of old.

    [Pipes up.

Recitative. "Who will buy my pretty, pretty Pri-im-ro-o-ses!
    All fresh gathered from the va-a-a-ll-ey?"

Master George. The wet and cold have got into your throat,
    A quaver and a crack on every note!

Master Robert. Don't aggravate each other, boys; 'tis wrong,
    But while it rains I'll tootle out a song:--
    (Sings.) The days we went a-Primrosing!

        AIR--"The days we went a-Gipsying!"

    The days are gone, the happy days
      When we were in our Spring;
    When all the Primrose loved to praise,
      And join its gathering.
    Oh! we could sing like anything,
      We felt the conqueror's glow,
    In the days when we went Primrosing,
              A long time ago.

        Chorus.--In the days, &c.

    Then April's flowery return
      Was "Peace-with-Honour's" goal.
    And the bright brimstone-bunch would burn
      In every button-hole.
    Our Dames were gaily on the wing,
      With blossoms in full blow,
    In the days when we went Primrosing,
              A long time ago.

        Chorus.--In the days, &c.

    But now Progressive storms prevail
      Election blizzards chill;
    The Primroses seem sparse and pale
      In valley and on hill.
    Yon cloud looks black as raven's wing!
      Things did not menace so.
    In the days when we went Primrosing
              A long time ago!

        Chorus.--In the days, &c.

Both. Oh, brayvo, BOBBY!

Master Robert. Thanks. Yet my song's burden
    Is dismal as the croakings of Dame Durden.
    Our holiday is spoilt by driving showers.
    I fear we shall have no great show of flowers;
    But--anyhow my boys we're under cover;
    And let us hope that storm-cloud will pass over
    Without first giving us a dreadful drenching,
    And all our April-hopes entirely quenching.

All (singing together).
      Rain! Rain!
        Go away!
      Come again
        Another day!

    [Left crouching and singing.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE THEATRES, &C. COMMISSION.--"I am afraid," said Mr. P.S. RUTLAND, speaking of the Music
Halls, and in answer to a question of Mr. BOLTON's, "we cannot do a wreck. (Laughter.)" Mr.
WOODALL: "Without being wrecked in the attempt. (Renewed laughter.)" Oh, witty WOODALL! Why,
encouraged by this applause, he may yet be led on to make a pun on his own name, and say, "Would
all were like him!" or some such merry jest. The proceedings in this Committee were becoming
a trifle dull, but it is to be hoped that they may yet hear something still more sparkling
from the wise and witty WOODALL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MY COOK.

  Oh, hard of favour, fat of form,
    How fairer art thou than thy looks,
  Whose heart with kitchen fires is warm,
    Thou plainest of the plainer Cooks!

  Low down upon thy forehead grows
    Thick hair of no conducive dye;
  Short and aspiring is thy nose,
    Watched ever by a furtive eye.

  In shy defiance rarely seen
    Where kitchen stairways darkly tend,
  A foe to judge thee by thy mien,
    Proclaimed in every act a friend!

  I know thee little; not thy views
    On public or on private life,
  Whether a single lot thou'dst choose,
    Or fain would'st be a Guardsman's wife;

  For who can rightly read the change
    When, still'd the work-day traffic's din,
  In best apparel, rich and strange,
    Thou passest weekly to thy kin!

  A silken gown, that bravely stands
    Environing thy form, or no;
  Stout gloves upon thy straining hands,
    For brooch, the breastplate cameo.

  Shod with the well-heeled boots, whose knell
    Afar along the pavement sounds,
  Blent with the tinkling muffin-bell,
    Or milkman, shrilling on his rounds.

  Nil tangis quod non ornas. Nay,
    'Tis not alone the parsley sprig,
  The paper frill, the fennel spray,
    The Yule-tide's pertly-berried twig;

  But common objects by thy art
    Some proper beauty seem to own;
  Thy chop is as a chop apart,
    Fraught with a grace before unknown;

  The very egg thou poachest seems
    Some work of deft orfévrerie,--
  A yolk of gold that chastely gleams
    Through a thin shrine of ivory.

  From thee no pale and wilted ghost,
    Or branded by the blackening bar,
  But crisp and cheery comes the toast,
    And brown as ripening hazels are.

  Thy butter has not lost the voice
    Of English meads, where cowslips grow,
  And oh, the bacon of thy choice--
    Rose-jacinth labyrinthed in snow!

  And mutton, colder than the kiss
    Of formal love, where loathing lurks
  Its deadlier chill doth wholly miss,
    Fired with the spirit of thy works.

  To true occasion thou art true,
    As upon great occasions great;
  Doing whatever Cook may do
    When PHYLLIS, neat, alone will wait,

  As when the neighbouring villas send
    Their modish guests to statelier fare,
  And PHYLLIS, neat, is helped to tend
    By that staid man the Greengrocer.

  Though thou art more than plain in look,
    Thou wieldest charms that never tire--
  O Cook--we will not call thee Cook,
    Thou Priestess of the Genial Fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAYING A GHOST!

    PROSPECTIVE ARRANGEMENTS.--Owing to the continued success of
    Hamlet, it has been decided (by arrangement with the Author)
    to postpone, &c.--Extract from Advertisement in Daily Paper.

    SCENE--Sanctum of Popular Actor-Manager of Theatre Royal
    Haymarket, Popular Actor-Manager dozing over a submitted
    Play. He closes his eyes and slumbers. When to him enter
    Master WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE.

Master W.S. (shouting). What ho, Sir Player! Wake up, Sir, wake up!

P.A.-M. (rousing himself). Delighted to see you, Mr. SHAKSPEARE. I hope you have been in front
and seen us?

Master W.S. Yes, I just had a glance. Find you have put in some new business. When will all
you fellows leave me alone?

P.A.-M. (earnestly). I hope, Sir, that in the cause of Art you do not object, that--

Master W.S. (interrupting). Oh, no! It makes little difference to me what you do. My author's
fees ceased years ago! But look here, What do you mean by this? Now, Master TREE, or as I may
call ye, "Master up a Tree," what have you to say to that? You see your advertisement has caught
my eye. I am here to answer it!

P.A.-M. Most wonderful! I do not know how or wherefore my pen slipped, but slip it did, indeed.
However, I apologise. Is that enough?

Master W.S. More than enough!

    Enter the Ghost of HAMLET's Father suddenly.

Ghost (with a glance at W.S.). Ah, the Governor here already! Still, I may have my chance as
well as he! I gave the plot of Hamlet! Why shouldn't I have another shot?

P.A.-M. (eagerly). The very thing for a melodrama. Delighted to make your acquaintance--hem--in
the Spirit!

Master W.S. Nay, good Master Player, this is scarcely business! If anything in that line is
to be done, I should do it. (To Ghost of HAMLET's Father). Begone, Sirrah!

Ghost. Nay, this is professional jealousy! (To P.A.-M.). I find thee apt--

    [A book falls, and Master WM. SHAKSPEARE and Ghost of
    HAMLET's Father vanish together.

P.A.-M. (opening his eyes). Was I dreaming? (With a recollection of "The Red Lamp") I wonder!
[Left wondering.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAKING A SIGHT AT RINGANDKNOCK.

(BY RUDDIER STRIPLING.)

After the roughness of the Atlantic, in which to my taste there is far too much water moving
about, I stepped on to America with considerable relief. I was quite satisfied, after that
excellent dinner, the first I had enjoyed since Liverpool slid away eastward, to walk aimlessly
through the streets till I fell into the arms of a broad-shouldered, pug-nosed, Irish New York
policeman. It was just like having one's head put under the pump, but it did not quite revive
me, for I mistook my host in his sleigh for a walrus, and tried to harpoon him with my umbrella.
After matters had been explained, we went off, at least I did, and never woke up till I fell
out into a snow-drift, just as we turned a corner at our journey's end.

In the morning, I had some idea that the sky was a great sapphire, and that I was inside it,
and that the fields were some sort of velvet or wool-work, going round and round with the sun
rioting over them, whatever that may mean, till my head ached. I can't quite understand all
this now, but it seemed a very picturesque, impressionist description when I wrote it. Then
I went for a walk down Main Street. I think it is about 400 miles long, for I got nowhere near
the end, but this was perhaps owing to my uncertainty as to which side was the pleasanter to
walk on. At last I gave it up, and sat down on the side-walk. I explained to the policeman
that I had been sitting up half the night on a wild horse in New Zealand, and had only just
come over for the day, but it was all in vain.

The cell at Vermont was horribly uncomfortable. I dreamt that I was trying to boil snow in
a thimble, to make maple syrup, and to swim on my head in deep water, with a life-belt tied
to my ankles. There was another man there, and in the early morning he told me about Mastodons
and Plesiosauri in a wood near the town, and how he caught them by the tails and photographed
them; and also that Ringandknock, a mountain near, was mentioned by EMERSON in a verse, which
I remembered, because he made "co-eval" rhyme with "extended." Only a truly great Philosopher
could have done that.

It was all new and delightful; and it must have been true, because my informant was a quiet,
slow-spoken man of the West, who refrained from laughing at me. I have met very few people
who could do that. Next day all the idleness and trifling were at an end, and my friends conveyed
me back to New York.