1874-1894.

TWO DECADES:

A History of the First Twenty Years' Work of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union of the
State of New York.

by

FRANCES W. GRAHAM, LOCKPORT.

and

GEORGEANNA M. GARDENIER, OSWEGO.

Written by Request of the Twentieth Annual Convention of the State Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, Held at Syracuse in October, 1893

PREFACE BY MARY TOWNE BURT.

GREETING.

This little volume now starts upon its way to visit the homes of those who, with us, desire
above all things the overthrow of the liquor traffic. When it knocks at your door, kindly admit
it and treat it as a welcome guest--a loved friend; remain blind to its faults, and see only
the good intended.

We send it forth, not for its literary merit, not for any honor to ourselves, but as a faithful
record of the work accomplished by the Woman's Christian Temperance Union of the State of New
York during the two decades just closed. It was written at your request, and it is yours, not
ours. That it may be of benefit to the work and a pleasure to the workers is all we ask. We
commend it to you with earnest prayers and best wishes.

FRANCES W. GRAHAM.

GEORGEANNA M. GARDENIER.

TO OUR CONSECRATED LEADER, MARY TOWNE BURT,

AND TO THE TWENTY-TWO THOUSAND WHITE RIBBONERS OF THE EMPIRE STATE, THIS BOOK is AFFECTIONATELY
DEDICATED BY THE AUTHORS

OFFICERS, 1894.

PRESIDENT: MRS. MARY TOWNE BURT,       217 W. 134th St., New York City.

FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT: MRS. ELLA A. BOOLE, A.M.,          West New Brighton, S. I.

CORRESPONDING SECRETARY: MRS. FRANCES W. GRAHAM,           274 Church St., Lockport.

RECORDING SECRETARY: MRS. GEORGEANNA M. GARDENIER,     64 E. Cayuga St., Oswego.

TREASURER MRS. ELLEN L. TENNEY,             484 Madison Ave., Albany.

STATE HEADQUARTERS:

No. 30 WEST 230 STREET, NEW YORK CITY.

COUNTY STANDARD BEARERS, 1894

Albany--Mrs. C. J. A. JUMP, Albany. Allegany--Mrs. V. A. WILLARD, Belmont Broome--Mrs. W. H.
BRISTOL, Binghamton. Cattaraugus--Mrs. M. G. PECKHAM, Leon. Cayuga--Mrs. P. J. ADAMS, Moravia.
Chautauqua--Mrs. M. S. MEAD, Jamestown. Chemung--Mrs. S. W. STODDARD, Horseheads. Chenango--'Mrs.
C. A. MOORE, Mt. Upton. Clinton--Mrs. FRANCES D. HALL, Plattsburg. Columbia--Mrs. MARCIA C.
POWELL, Ghent. Cortland--Mrs. FANNIE KEESE, Cortland. Delaware--Mrs. CLARA HILSINGER, Sidney.
Dutchess--Mrs. H. A. NELSON, Poughkeepsie. Erie--Mrs. CLARA T. SISSON, Collins. Essex--Mrs.
ADA J. R. BEERS, Port Henry. Franklin--Mrs. W. F. WINKLEY, Malone. Fulton--Mrs. GEORGE CLARK,
Amsterdam. Genesee--Mrs. ANNA E. RICE, Batavia. Greene--Miss E. BRANDOW, Coxsackie. Herkimer--Mrs.
L. P. DAVIES, Herkimer. Jefferson--Mrs. E. GURNEY, Clayton. Kings--Mrs. L. VANDERHOEF, Brooklyn.
Lewis--Mrs. M. B. O'DONNELL, Lowville. Livingston--Mrs. H. M. FREEMAN, Lima. Madison--Mrs.
E. C. BUSHNELL, Lakeport. Monroe--Mrs. F. N. PARISH, Churchville. Montgomery--Mrs. J. G. DEGRAFF,
Amsterdam. New York--Mrs. E. FRANCES LORD, New York. Niagara--Mrs. RUTH A. FROST, Barker's.
Oneida--Mrs. THEODOSIA M. FOSTER, Verona. Onondaga--Mrs. M. D. FERGUSON, Syracuse. Ontario--Mrs.
A. H. WOOD, Farmington. Orange--Mrs. L. H. WASHINGTON, Port Jervis. Orleans--Mrs. G. A. HEWITT,
Gaines. Oswego--Mrs. S. M. BARKER, New Haven. Otsego--Mrs. ELLEN TALLMADGE, Otsego. Putnam--Mrs.
LYMAN F. BROWN, Carmel. Queens--Mrs. C. H. HARRIS, Jamaica. Rensselaer--Mrs. S. A. KENNEY,
Troy. Richmond--Mrs. SARAH R. MORRIS, West New Brighton. Rockland--Mrs. J. A. DINGMAN, Spring
Valley. Saratoga--Mrs. GRACE ANDRESS, Gansevoort. Schenectady--Mrs. M. CLOWE, Schenectady.
Schoharie--Mrs. L. A. WILCOX, Jefferson. Schuyler--Mrs. L. L. CLAWSON, Havana. Seneca--Mrs.
J. STORY, Cayuga. Steuben--Mrs. A. M. HART, Hornellsville. St. Lawrence--Mrs. M. D. SILL, Massena.
Suffolk--Mrs. EVA HORTON, Greenport. Sullivan--Mrs. M. M. McKoon, Long Eddy. Tioga--Mrs. N.
H. HUTCHINSON, Oswego. Tompkins--Mrs. D. C. BOUTON, Ithaca. Ulster--Mrs. E. U. BURGESS, Highland.
Warren--Mrs. T. TRITTON, Glens Falls. Washington--Mrs. J. H. MASON, Greenwich. Wayne--Miss
H. ELLEN ORTON, Sodus. Westchester--Miss H. A. ROLLINS, Yonkers. Wyoming--Miss KATE MANNING,
Attica. Yates--Miss CELIA S. HUTTON, Penn Yan.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

PREFACE                                                       11

Sketch of Mrs. Esther McNeil, Veteran Crusader                14

PROLOGUE                                                      15

CHAPTER I.--"The Sober Second Thought of the Crusade"         19

Sketch of Mrs. Allen Butler, first President                  27

CHAPTER II.--Constitution and By-Laws, with changes           29

Sketch of Mrs. Maria Hyde Hibbard, second President           32

CHAPTER III.--Organization                                    33

Sketch of Mrs. Mary Towne Burt, our President                 40

CHAPTER IV.--Educational                                      44

Sketch of Mrs. Ella A. Boole, First Vice-President            51

CHAPTER V.--Evangelistic                                      53

Sketch of Mrs. Frances W. Graham, Corresponding Secretary     57

CHAPTER VI.--Legislation and Petition                         59

Sketch of Mrs. Georgeanna M. Gardenier, Recording Secretary   67

CHAPTER VII.--Social and Political                            70

Sketch of Mrs. Ellen L. Tenney, Treasurer                     75

CHAPTER VIII.--Miscellaneous                                  77

Financial Statement, 1874-1894                                84

Officers, 1874-1894                                           85

Annual Meetings                                               86

World's Fair Banner                                           87

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Crusade Church                          Frontispiece

Mrs. Mary Towne Burt                   Facing page 5

Mrs. Esther McNeil                       "     "  14

Mrs. Allen Butler                        "     "  27

Mrs. Maria Hyde Hibbard                  "     "  32

Mrs. Mary Towne Burt                     "     "  40

Mrs. Ella A. Boole                       "     "  51

Mrs. Frances W. Graham                   "     "  57

Mrs. Georgeanna M. Gardenier             "     "  67

Mrs. Ellen L. Tenney                     "     "  75

PREFACE.

Histories are strange things: they uncover so many hidden events, and bring back so many lost
memories. A history that traces the beginnings of a reform movement, that weaves the shuttle
of memory in and out of the web of the past and presents a perfect woof of fact and incident,
is a treasury of knowledge that will not fail to delight and instruct. But the compilation
of such a history is no easy task, and especially is this true of an organization with the
many ramifications of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union of the State of New York.

The 14th of October, 1894, marked the twenty-first milestone in our history, and the story
that follows is the story of the hopes and fears, the smiles and tears of the past twenty years,
mingled with songs of rejoicing for grand achievement. For twenty years this organization has
stood with undaunted front against the sin of the state as represented by the legalized traffic
in intoxicating liquors and by the awful vice that would put a premium on woman's shame.

During this time it has uttered its shibboleth that that political party, and that only, which
declares in its platform for the complete prohibition of the liquor traffic, can have its influence
and its prayers. There have been days of darkness and disaster, but by the grace of God no
weapon turned against the union has prospered, and every tongue that has risen in judgment
has been condemned. The growth of the organization has been marvelous, for in twenty years
it has grown from a few hundred members to twenty-two thousand, and from a few auxiliaries
to over nine hundred, which cover as a network the entire state. Its workers are indefatigable,
and wage their peaceful war for "sweeter manners, purer laws," with an earnestness that carries
conviction to the hearts of the people and the law-makers of the state. And wherever there
is a wrong to right, an evil to attack, or a hand to help, there will you find a woman with
a white ribbon on her breast.

The committee having this history in charge have searched faithfully the records of twenty
years. Some of the names recorded here have never been heard by the workers of later years.
Their owners have crossed the boundary-line that separates this world from the next. But living
and dead speak with one voice of their love, service, and consecration to the work; and out
of these God has welded a union that stands for all that is pure and good in government and
the home, and whose work for Him and for humanity will never cease until

   "All the bells of God shall ring the ship of Temperance in."

We feel that the state is under many obligations to Mrs. Graham and Mrs. Gardenier for so faithfully
recording the work of these past years, for while in one sense it has been a labor of love,
yet the many hours spent in earnest research for the necessary data must have been hours of
toil. And while we thank our beloved sisters for their work and interest, our thoughts turn
to the thousands of women whose lives have made this history possible--those who have gone
steadfastly forward in the line of duty, thinking not of the world's applause, but doing all
things and bearing all things in the Master's name and for the Master's sake.

With this history we have reached our majority--twenty-one years. "Old enough to vote," I hear
some one say. Yes, quite. But the state, whose children we are marshaling under the total abstinence
banner of the Loyal Temperance Legion; with whose vice and misery we are in a hand-to-hand
conflict, and have done much to suppress; which has felt the influence of our work in hundreds
of directions, and whose law-makers declare that it is good, and good only, has not yet awarded
us the right. But long before we reach our second majority the piece of paper that "does the
freeman's will as lightning does the will of God" will be placed in the hand of woman, and
sin and impurity, like the shadows, will flee away.

And for those who are still in the stress of the battle, for those who will come after us,
and for those who will kindly read these pages, "May God bless us each and every one."

MARY T. BURT.

NEW YORK, November 9, 1894.

MRS. ESTHER McNEIL.

(VETERAN CRUSADER)

Esther Lord was born in Carlisle, Schoharie county, New York, in the year 1812. Her father
was a Connecticut Yankee, her mother a native of Massachusetts. When Esther was ten years of
age her father died, leaving ten children. We know little of the struggles through which they
passed before reaching manhood and womanhood.

In 1832 she was married to James McNeil, of Carlisle, and together they enlisted under the
Washingtonian movement to fight the demon drink. About a month after her marriage she became
a Christian, and, with a new heart, God gave her the desire to be of use to others, and she
offered herself to the Lord to care for homeless children. Although she has never been blessed
with children of her own, yet the mother heart has not been empty. In 1868 she with her husband
moved to Fredonia, Chautauqua county, New York, with eight homeless children to be put to school.
Two years later her husband, who was a member of the State Temperance Society, died, and in
this same year one of her dear girls died.

In 1873 she entered the list of crusaders, and became a member of the Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, organized December 22, 1873. This union has continued to be the leading union in the
county, holding weekly meetings, and loyal always to county, state, and national organizations.
Mrs. McNeil was the first county president, and for the past seventeen years has been the local
president in Fredonia. Although now past eighty-two years of age, yet at the twenty-first annual
convention she led the "Crusaders' Hour" with great acceptance.

PROLOGUE.

When history shall have recorded the events of America's nineteenth century, prominent among
them will be the "Woman's Crusade," a movement whose strength, please God, will not be spent
until the last legalized saloon has disappeared from this fair land.

Hillsboro, Ohio, claims the birthplace, and December 23, 1873, as the birthday of this momentous
event. True, from this place and day the influence deepened and widened, spreading to other
localities with wonderful rapidity; but to Fredonia, Chautauqua county, New York, is accorded
the honor of inaugurating the work, December 15, 1873. How was this brought about? The story
in brief is this:

On Saturday evening, December 13, Dr. Dio Lewis, of Boston, had delivered a popular lecture
in Fredonia, and upon invitation of the Good Templars remained to deliver a temperance lecture
at a union service Sunday night. The audience was large, but there was no indication of unusual
results from the meeting. The speaker presented the truth so forcibly, and recommended plans
of procedure so practical, that the audience caught his spirit. At the close of the lecture
it was evident something was going to be done, and that right speedily. Dr. Lewis outlined
a plan of work which he had seen tried with success in his own village when a youth, and later
in other places. The thoughtful ones saw its feasibility, and numbers spoke upon the question.
Rev. Lester Williams, pastor of the Baptist Church, said he believed in striking while the
iron was hot, and asked all the ladies who sympathized with the proposition to hold a meeting
of consultation relative to the work to rise. Nearly every woman was upon her feet. A list
of fifty names was secured of those who were ready to act, and a committee consisting of Mrs.
A. L. Benton, Mrs. Dr. Fuller, and Mrs. J. P. Armstrong, Jr., was appointed to draw up an appeal
to be presented to the various liquor dealers of the town.

A meeting was called at the Baptist Church for Monday morning, December 15, at ten o'clock,
to adopt the appeal and inaugurate the work. The past few days had been dark and gloomy, but
Monday was bright and beautiful. Mr. Williams remarked that in it they could see the smile
of God upon the movement. About three hundred people gathered at the appointed hour--men and
women. The following appeal was submitted and adopted:

APPEAL.

   In the name of God and humanity we make our appeal:

    Knowing, as we do, that the sale of intoxicating liquors is the
    parent of every misery, prolific of all woe in this life and the
    next, potent alone in evil, blighting every fair hope, desolating
    families, the chief incentive to crime, we, the mothers, wives, and
    daughters, representing the moral and religious sentiment of our
    town, to save the loved members of our households from the
    temptation of strong drink, from acquiring an appetite for it, and
    to rescue, if possible, those that have already acquired it,
    earnestly request that you will pledge yourself to cease the traffic
    here in these drinks, forthwith and forever. We will also add the
    hope that you will abolish your gaming tables.

The women then retired to the room below, organized for work, and arranged a line of march.
The men meanwhile prayed and planned, twenty-three of them pledging to pay the percentage of
$1,000 placed opposite their names for carrying on the work.

At half-past twelve o'clock the procession marched out of the basement of the Baptist Church,
over one hundred being in line. These were the wives of Fredonia's most respected citizens,
venerable and revered matrons, as well as many young women. Headed by Mrs. Judge Barker and
Mrs. Rev. Lester Williams, they quietly walked across the park straight to the Taylor House
saloon. The band of women filed in, nearly filling the place. Mrs. Barker immediately made
known their mission. Mrs. Williams read to the proprietor the appeal. A hymn was sung to Pleyel's
sweet air, and all joined in the Lord's prayer, after which Mrs. Tremaine, a venerable and
gifted woman, offered a prayer full of Christian tenderness. Mr. Taylor was then asked if he
would not accede to their appeal. He finally said, "If the rest will close their places, I'll
close mine." His brother and partner did not consent so readily. The ladies asked him to consider
the matter, promising to call the next day for his decision. The proprietor replied "That he
would be pleased to see them every day," and politely bowed the ladies out. This visit was
a sample of those made until every saloon, hotel, and drug store had been visited. This work
was continued daily, and during the week union prayer-meetings were held every night. One drug
store responded to the appeal; one hotel closed its bar; the visits became distasteful to one
dealer, and he locked the women out.

The Fredonia Censor, a weekly paper, in its issue of Wednesday, December 17, 1873, contained
the following headlines:

A TEMPERANCE REVIVAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enthusiastic Meeting Sunday Evening--Every Place where Liquor is Sold in Fredonia Visited by
a Band of One Hundred Women on Monday--They Appeal to the Proprietors to Stop the Traffic--A
Season of Prayer and Hymns in Rum Shops.

On Monday afternoon, December 21, the women met to perfect a permanent organization, which
they did by adopting the following pledge and name:

PLEDGE.

    We, the undersigned women of Fredonia, feeling that God has laid
    upon us a work to do for temperance, do hereby pledge ourselves to
    united and continuous effort to suppress the traffic in
    intoxicating liquors in our village until this work be
    accomplished; and that we will stand ready for united effort upon
    any renewal of the traffic. We will also do what we can to alleviate
    the woes of drunkards' families, and to rescue from drunkenness
    those who are pursuing its ways.

NAME.

   This society shall be known as The Woman's Christian Temperance
   Union of Fredonia.

Two hundred and eight members were enrolled, sixty-four of whom were young women. The first
officers were: Mrs. George Barker, President; Mrs. D. R. Barker, Vice-President; Mrs. L. A.
Barmore, Secretary; Mrs. L. L. Riggs, Treasurer.

Thus was the wonderful movement called "The Crusade" begun, and the first local Woman's Christian
Temperance Union organized.

That the local paper was keeping a keen watch on the movements of the women is evidenced by
the following headlines in the Censor of December 24, 1873:

TEMPERANCE REVIVAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

One Less Bar to Practice At--A Permanent Temperance Union Formed--Over Two Hundred Women Pledged
"Until this Work is Accomplished."

CHAPTER I.

"THE SOBER SECOND THOUGHT OF THE CRUSADE."

It soon became apparent that the methods of the crusade could not be continued indefinitely;
that in order to strengthen and perpetuate the work already begun organization was necessary.
This sentiment prevailed in the State of New York, and many local societies, bearing various
names, had already been formed.

The initiatory for a state organization was taken by the Woman's Temperance Union of Syracuse,
which, at a meeting held September 10, 1874, decided to call a state convention of all women's
temperance organizations, to be held at Syracuse in October, preparatory to the great national
convention which was to be held in November. A central committee of five was appointed to make
all necessary arrangements, and on September 19th was issued the following:

CALL.

   The Syracuse Woman's Temperance Union respectfully invite the
   working temperance women throughout the state to meet in convention
   in this city on the 14th day of October, at nine o'clock A. M., at
   the First Methodist Church, for the purpose of organizing a state
   temperance league, and to appoint delegates to the national
   convention to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, November next.

   It is hoped that every town and city in the state will be represented.
   All newspapers are requested to give the above an insertion and a local
   notice, and all ministers are desired to read it from their desks.

   Delegates are requested to notify the secretary of their intention
   to be present by the both of October, and places of entertainment
   will be provided. A committee of reception will be in waiting at the
   rooms of the Young Men's Christian Association, 16 South Salina
   street, on Tuesday evening, and at the church on Wednesday morning.

   MRS. ALLEN BUTLER.
   MRS. R. A. ESMOND.
   MRS. E. B. STEVENS.
   MRS. T. S. TRUAIR.
   MRS. SAMUEL THURBER,
   Secretary Central Committee.

Pursuant to the above call, at nine o'clock A.M. of October 14, 1874, a large gathering of
earnest women from various parts of the state assembled at the First Methodist Episcopal Church
of Syracuse, for the purpose of discussing the great interests of the temperance cause and
plan for its future advancement.

The meeting was called to order by Mrs. Allen Butler, of Syracuse, who was made temporary chairman,
with Mrs. S. Thurber and Miss A. L. Didama as secretaries.

The permanent organization was perfected by the election of the following officers:

President--Mrs. Helen E. Brown, New York City.

Vice-Presidents--Mrs. Allen Butler, Syracuse; Mrs. George Case, Sodus; Mrs. L. B. Ayers, Penn Yan.

Secretary--Mrs. N. B. Foot, Rome.

Assistant Secretaries--Mrs. S. Thurber, Syracuse; Miss A. L. Didama, Syracuse.

The following reported and were registered as delegates, although many others were present
and participated in the deliberations:

 FIRST CONVENTION.

DELEGATES TO FIRST MEETING.

Allegany County.                    Mrs. T. B. Stowell, Cortland.
Mrs. B. C. Rude, Wellsville.           Mrs. Day, Cortland.
                                      Mrs. Dr. Green, Cortland.
Broome County.                      Mrs. E. L. Knight, Homer.
Mrs. H. R. Clark, Binghamton.          Mrs. P. Barber, Homer.
Mrs. J. H. Parsons, Binghamton.
Mrs. L. C. Phillips, Binghamton.       Erie County.
                                      Mrs. L. M. Kenyon, Buffalo.
Cayuga County.
Mrs. Mary T. Burt, Auburn.            Herkimer County.
Mrs. George Letchworth, Auburn.       Mrs. L. Colton, Ilion.
Mrs. James Seymour, Auburn.           Mrs. M. J. Buck, Ilion.
Mrs. C. W. Boyce, Auburn.              Mrs. M. E. Perkins, Ilion.
Mrs. B. F. Hall, Auburn.               Mrs. Albert Baker, Ilion.
Mrs. Dr. Wilkie, Auburn.              Mrs. M. S. Angel, Ilion.
Mrs. Jennie M. Pierson, Auburn.
Mrs. William Donovan, Weedsport.      Kings County.
Mrs. T. B. Foote, Weedsport.           Mrs. Mary C. Johnson, Brooklyn.
Mrs. J. Gould, Weedsport.             Mrs. Mary Richardson, Brooklyn.
Mrs. Susan Fox, Weedsport.            Mrs. Geo. W. Thomas, Brooklyn.

Chautauqua County.                  Lewis County. Mrs. Esther McNeil, Fredonia.         Mrs.
M. B. O'Donnell, Lowville. Mrs. H. C. Lake, Fredonia.            Mrs. H. F. Lanfear, Lowville.

Chemung County.                     Livingston County.
Mrs. Ransom Pratt, Elmira.            Mrs. McMahon, Lima.
Mrs. Cleevis, Elmira.
                                      Madison County.
Clinton County.                     Mrs. Dr. Jarvis, Canastota.
Mrs. George Bixby, Plattsburg.
                                      Monroe County.
Cortland County.                    Mrs. E. A. Nelson, Rochester.
Mrs. J. S. Squires, Cortland.          Miss S. J. Vosburg, Rochester.

New York County.                    Mrs. C. W. Allis, Skaneateles.
Mrs. H. E. Brown, New York.            Mrs. J. P. Clark, Obisco.
Mrs. R. P. Penfield, New York.
                                      Orleans County.
Oneida County.                      Mrs. E. G. Gillett, Medina.
Mrs. M. M. Northrup, Utica.
Mrs. George Westcott, Utica.          Oswego County.
Mrs. Peter Stryker, Rome.             Mrs. E. A. Cooper, Fulton.
Mrs. N. B. Foot, Rome.                 Mrs. J. Miller, Fulton.
Mrs. O. C. Cole, Clinton.              Mrs. George Goodier, Oswego.
                                      Mrs. Francis Brown, Oswego.
Ontario County.                     Mrs. C. T. Bishop, Oswego.
Mrs. A. Petit, Gorham.                Mrs. Elizabeth Clark, Oswego.
Mrs. E. G. Townsend, Geneva.
Mrs. E. W. Herendeen, Geneva.          Seneca County.
Mrs. Adaline King, Geneva.            Mrs. S. M. Metcalf, Seneca Falls.
Mrs. J. G. Gracey, Clifton Springs.    Miss Emma Allen, Seneca Falls.
Mrs. T. J. Bissell, Phelps.
                                      Tioga County.
Onondaga County.                    Mrs. L. Curtis, Waverly.
Mrs. Alien Butler, Syracuse.
Mrs. R. A. Esmond, Syracuse.           Tompkins County.
Mrs. T. S. Truair, Syracuse.            Mrs. S. Whitlock, Ithaca.
Mrs. J. L. Bagg, Syracuse.              Mrs. C. M. Selkreg, Ithaca.
Mrs. J. P. Griffin, Syracuse.
Mrs. S. Thurber, Syracuse.            Wayne County.
Mrs. George Greeley, Syracuse.        Mrs. William H. Carkey, Clyde.
Mrs. Dr. Stevens, Syracuse.           Mrs. Harris Wilbur, Clyde.
Mrs. J. J. Brown, Syracuse.            Mrs. G. Case, Sodus.
Mrs. Beardsley, Syracuse.             Mrs. C. P. Mundy, Sodus.
Miss A. L. Didama, Syracuse.
Miss M. E. Armstrong, Fayetteville.    Yates County.
Mrs. M. Gage, Fayetteville.           Mrs. L. B. Ayers, Penn Yan.
Miss Etta P. Avery, Fayetteville.     Mrs. M. J. Lattimer, Penn Yan.
Mrs. Morehouse, Liverpool.            Mrs. C. A. Allen, Benton Center.

FRATERNAL DELEGATES.

Mrs. T. K. Church, Washington, D.C.[1] Mrs. Mary R. Denman, Newark, N.J. [2] Mrs. J. Dunlap,
Newark, N.J. Miss Mary Dunlap, Newark, N.J.

Of this number thirteen were present at the twentieth convention, held at Syracuse in 1893;
among them being the first chairman, Mrs. Butler; the first secretary, Mrs. N. B. Foot; and
Mrs. Esther McNeil, our venerable crusader, of Fredonia.

The keynote for the future was struck at the first convention, as will be seen in the report
of the committee appointed to recommend topics for discussion. These represented the foundation
principles of the organization, and were as follows:

TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION.

How should holly-tree inns or coffee-rooms be managed? What is their history?

Is it a part of woman's work in the temperance cause to attend to the enforcing of the license
laws?

How can we arouse the young women to think as they never have upon this subject, and to realize
that there is a practical obligation resting upon them?

How can we make professing Christians feel their responsibilities?

What is the most judicious way of awakening the clergy to more zealous effort in the cause
of temperance, and securing the cooperation of the church as a body?

How can we work most effectually among the children?

Can domestic wines be made and used consistently by Christian women, or with safety to their
families? Is it not encouraging intemperance?

Can we, as temperance women, use wine and cider for culinary purposes with consistency or safety?

[1] Afterward President of District of Columbia W.C.T.U. [2] Afterward President of New Jersey
W.C.T.U.

Pending these discussions a constitution was drafted. This was adopted, and a state society
called "The Christian Woman's State League" was formed.

The following officers were elected for the first year:

President--Mrs. Allen Butler, Syracuse.

Vice-Presidents--Mrs. Mary C. Johnson, Brooklyn; Mrs. Helen E. Brown, New York; Mrs. Dr. Kenyon,
Buffalo; Mrs. L. B. Ayers, Penn Yan; Mrs. B. F. Hall, Auburn.

Corresponding Secretary--Mrs. Dr. Greeley, Syracuse.

Recording Secretary--Mrs. Mary T. Burt, Auburn.

Treasurer--Mrs. T. S. Truair, Syracuse.

During the first year two quarterly meetings were held--one at Brooklyn in February, and one
at Buffalo in May. At the Brooklyn meeting the constitution was somewhat modified, and the
name changed to the present one--"The Woman's Christian Temperance Union of the State of New York."

The first legislative work of the society was the memorializing of President Grant and Governor
Dix. This memorial was prepared by Mrs. B. C. Rude, of Wellsville, Miss M. E. Armstrong, of
Fayetteville, and Mrs. M. B. O'Donnell, of Lowville.

FIRST MEMORIAL.

    We, temperance women of the State of New York, in convention at
    Syracuse, deeply sensible that intemperance is a prevailing and
    corrupting power for evil, affecting the happiness and well-being of
    multitudes of all classes and conditions impotent to protect
    themselves from its influences, but citizens, all claiming the
    natural and lawful protection of our rulers and executors of our
    laws; that its pernicious influence in the home, by subverting every
    principle of right, is in the aggregate corrupting the entire
    national body, subverting the intent of our political institutions;
    and whereas petitioning is our only resort, we have petitioned our
    God, the Infinite Ruler, in your behalf, and now petition your
    excellency, in behalf of the temperance cause, that you appoint
    to positions in the civil service none but total abstinence men.
    All of which we most respectfully submit, and for which your
    petitioners will ever pray.

The memorial to Governor Dix was presented directly by the State League; that to President
Grant was referred to the national society soon to be formed.

Twenty-two delegates were appointed to attend the convention called at Cleveland, Ohio, November
18, 19, and 20, 1874, for the purpose of organizing a national society. The State of New York
was honored in this convention by the appointment of Mrs. Mary T. Burt as secretary of the
organizing convention, and by the election of Mrs. Mary C. Johnson as recording secretary,
and Mrs. Dr. Kenyon as one of the vice-presidents for the first year.

The following resolutions were adopted at the first meeting, and must have been drafted with
a prophet's ken, as they have been largely fulfilled in the years that have passed:

RESOLUTIONS.

   WHEREAS, Intemperance has become so widespread, permeating every class
   and condition of society, even from the sacred desk to the hovel, we
   hail with gratitude to God the many indications of the revival in the
   interest of temperance reform which exists in various portions of our
   country, and especially do we rejoice that the women have been awakened
   to the vast evils thereby entailed; and, relying upon divine guidance
   and support, we feel that the present time is particularly auspicious
   for that renewal and vigorous action on the part of friends of
   temperance which the exigencies of all so urgently demand; therefore,

