(12) The election of the Deputies to the National Representative body shall be by universal
suffrage, with equal, direct and secret ballot. The same shall apply to the elections in the
Communes and other administrative units. Elections will take place in each Commune.

(13) The Constitution, to be established after the conclusion of peace by a Constituent Assembly
elected by universal suffrage, with direct and secret ballot, will be the basis of the entire
life of the State; it will be the source and the consummation of all authority and of all rights
by which the entire life of the nation will be regulated.

The Constitution will provide the nation with the possibility of exercising its special energies
in local autonomies delimited by natural, social and economic conditions.

The Constitution must be passed in its entirety by a numerically defined majority in the Constituent
Assembly. The Constitution, like all other laws passed by the Constituent Assembly, will only
come into force after having received the Royal sanction.

The nation of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, thus unified, will form a State of about twelve
million inhabitants. This State will be the guarantee for their independence and national development,
and their national and intellectual progress in general, a mighty bulwark against the German
thrust, an inseparable ally of all the civilized nations and states which have proclaimed the
principle of right and liberty and that of international justice. It will be a worthy member
of the new Community of Nations.

Drawn up in Corfu, July 7/20, 1917.

The Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Serbia and Minister for Foreign Affairs

(Sgd.) NIKOLA P. PASHITCH,

The President of the Jugo-Slav Committee

(Sgd.) DR. ANTE TRUMBIC,

Advocate, Deputy and Leader of the Croatian National Party in the Dalmatian Diet, late Mayor
of Split (Spalato), late Deputy for the District of Zadar (Zara) in the Austrian Parliament.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL HINTS

THE following bibliography is nothing but a selected list and it has not seemed advisable to
include material which is to be found in periodicals. By R. J. Kerner. In press.]

Perhaps the most recent and best general statement of the Jugo-Slav problem as a whole is to
be found in A. H. E. Taylor's The Future of the Southern Slavs (New York, 1917). Another useful
general work is by the Serb, V. R. Savi[c]. The title is, South-Eastern Europe: The Main Problem
of the Present World Struggle (New York, 1918). This is an American edition, revised and enlarged,
of the author's English work: The Reconstruction of South-Eastern Europe (London, 1917). The
noted French historian, to whom the western world owes much of its knowledge about Slavic history,
Ernest Denis, presents an able survey of the general problem in his La grande Serbie (Paris,
1915). It is written largely around Serbia, like Savi[c]'s book. B. Vo[s]njak in A Bulwark
against Germany (London, 1917), and A Dying Empire (London, 1918), presents to western readers,
for the first time, the development of the Slovene districts of Austria and their relation
to that empire and to the Jugo-Slavs.

With regard to Austria-Hungary and the Jugo-Slavs in particular, the west owes most to the
penetrating studies of R. W. Seton-Watson, who formerly wrote under the name of Scotus Viator.
Before the war, Seton-Watson wrote The Southern Slav Problem and the Habsburg Monarchy (London,
1911), wherein he discusses the whole problem from the point of view of the Croats, in contrast
to the Serbs. The author subsequently rectified this point of view in The Balkans, Italy, and
the Adriatic (London, 1915); German, Slav, and Magyar (London, 1916); and The Rise of Nationality
in the Balkans (London, 1917).

