VOL. I.--NO. 6.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWENTY MILES AN HOUR.

It was the 6th of January, that great holiday in Russia, when the river Neva is consecrated
with pomp and ceremony, when soldiers parade and priests say mass, and the Emperor is visible,
and the cannon roar. And it was a gloriously bright and beautiful day; but Ivan and Olga, looking
out on the broad street and the glittering pinnacles of the palace chapel, watching the sledges
fly by with people all muffled in furs, were two very disconsolate children. They had an English
governess--for Russian children have to study English as Americans do French--and they had
been so unruly, so impatient, and indifferent to lessons, that Miss Stanley had forbidden their
going out to see the sights. This was hard indeed, but it was needful: that the children could
not understand, and they walked from the great porcelain stove, which reached to the ceiling,
over to the double windows, all packed with sand, and having curious little paper cornucopias
of salt stuck in it to keep the frost from making pictures on the glass, to and fro, to and
fro, in great unhappiness. Outside, the thermometer was away below zero, but inside, thanks
to the stoves and the great copper heaters, it was as warm as toast.

"Now, Olga," said Ivan, after an hour or two of this tiresome way of spending time, "I am not
going to stand this any longer; if I can not go to the Neva, I am going to have a ride on one
of the ice mountains, and if you want to, you may go with me."

"Oh, Ivan, how would you dare? You know we are not allowed to go alone, and Marie is at church,
and we have no sledges."

"Tut, tut! have I not fifty kopeks [about fifty cents], and can I not hire an isvochtchik [driver]
to take us? and we can be home again before they come from chapel. Come, Olga, let us have
some fun."

Olga's conscience said "no," but the temptation was overpowering, and after repeated urging
from Ivan they both crept down softly to the little apartment in the large hall where were
kept their fur cloaks and bashlyks, or cloth hoods, which are put over hats and ears. No one
saw them. Every one was at church, and the dvornik, or porter who guarded the front door, was
snoozing soundly, wrapped up in his sheep-skins, near the heater. They got their fur mittens
and tippets and cloaks down from the pegs where they were hanging in the heated air, and put
them on in silence. In silence, too, they lifted the huge bolts, and slipped out into the street.
It was too cold to speak, for the air would have frozen on their lips, and they hurried to
a corner where usually there were to be found sledges, whose drivers can endure any amount
of cold, and who even sleep out at night at theatre and opera while waiting for their masters.
Here Ivan found what he wanted, though the man's dull gaze seemed to question the propriety
of taking two children to the pleasure-garden which Ivan indicated. The kopeks, however, were
forth-coming, and that was all he cared about; so in they jumped, and tucked the furs about
them, and away they went over the broad street, flying past troiskas, with their three horses,
and gay little sledges of every description. Their route took them away from the Neva, where
was the greatest crowd, and they soon reached the entrance of the pleasure-garden, climbed
the great flight of wooden stairs to the pavilion on top, where Ivan hired a sled, and paid
for a glass of tea hot from the big brass samovar, which is always boiling and ready for use.
Olga had scarcely time to think what she was about before she was seated behind Ivan, and away
they flew down the side of the frozen mountain, all as hard as glass. But now it began to snow
fast, thick, and furious, and the people could not keep it off the ice. Ivan was getting tired,
too, and his hands were cold. This fun of going twenty miles an hour had filled him with glee;
but Olga lost her bashlyk, and he found it hard to guide his sled. Suddenly he made a swerve
to the left, and, with a fearful jerk, over they went. It was a dreadful blow, and had it not
been for the kindness of the people in charge, both might have been badly injured; but they
were picked up and carried to the pavilion, rubbed with snow on their noses and ears, and finally
packed in a sledge and driven home. How differently they looked at the glittering crowd, and
watched the animated scene! They had gone out full of excitement and daring; resolved as Ivan
was to resist authority, he now was full of shame that he had gotten himself into a scrape.
His fingers ached, and Olga was crying and complaining of her ears. As they neared their home
a troiska drove up with ladies wrapped in sables, and their mother and Miss Stanley alighted.

"Ivan! Olga! where have you been? what have you been doing?"

They told their story when they got in-doors, and Ivan had begged some kopeks with which to
pay the waiting isvochtchik--for his money had been exhausted; and it was settled that they
had been sufficiently punished when it was discovered that Ivan's fingers and Olga's ears were
frost-bitten.

Both were sent to bed for fear of further harm from the cold, which is considered by Russians
the root of all evil in the way of disease; and as they sipped their hot tea again, and nibbled
the slice of lemon which floated on the surface, Ivan said to Olga: "It is great fun to go
twenty miles an hour, but it don't pay to be bad. I'm going to work to-morrow at those old
English verbs, and I'll conquer or die."

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Trap-door Spider.=--One of the most singular specimens of insect life is the trap-door
spider of Jamaica. His burrow is lined with silk, and closed by a trap-door with a hinge. The
door exactly fits the entrance to the burrow, and when closed, so precisely corresponds with
the surrounding earth that it can hardly be distinguished, even when its position is known.
It is a strange sight to see the earth open, a little lid raised, some hairy legs protrude,
and gradually, the whole form of the spider show itself. These spiders generally hunt for food
by night, and in the daytime they are very chary of opening the door of their domicile, and
if the trap be raised from the outside, they run to the spot, hitch the claws of their fore-feet
in the lining of the burrow, and so resist with all their might. The strength of the spider
is wonderfully great in proportion to its size.

BURIED TREASURE.

    Upon a time--I do not know
  Exactly when, but long ago--
  A man whose riches were untold,
  Silver and precious stones and gold.
  Within an Eastern city dwelt;
  But not a moment's peace he felt,
  For fear that thieves should force his door,
  And rob him of his treasured store.
  In spite of armèd slaves on guard,
  And doors and windows locked and barred,
  His life was one continual fright;
  He hardly slept a wink by night,
  And had so little rest by day
  That he grew prematurely gray.

    At last he dug a monstrous pit
  To hold his wealth, and buried it
  By night, alone; then smoothed the ground
  So that the spot could not be found.
  But he gained nothing by his labor:
  A curious, prying, envious neighbor,
  Who marked the hiding, went and told
  The Sultan where to find the gold.
  A troop of soldiers came next day,
  And bore the hoarded wealth away.

    Some precious jewels still remained,
  For which a goodly price he gained,
  Then left the city, quite by stealth,
  To save the remnant of his wealth;
  But now, by hard experience taught,
  A better way to keep it sought.
  Broad lands he bought, and wisely tilled;
  With fruits and grain his barns he filled;
  He used his wealth with liberal hand;
  His plenty flowed through all the land;
  And, hid no longer under-ground,
  Spread honest comfort all around.

    Thus calm and prosperous pass the years,
  Till on a fated day he hears
  The Sultan's mandate, short and dread,
  "Present thyself, or lose thy head!"
  Fearful and trembling, he obeys,
  For Sultans have their little ways,
  And wretches who affront their lord
  Brave bastinado, sack, or cord.

    Before the dreaded throne he bowed
  Where sat the Sultan, grim and proud,
  And thought, "My head must surely fall,
  And then my master will seize all
  My wealth again." But from the throne
  There came a calm and kindly tone:
  "My son, well pleased am I to see
  Thy dealings in prosperity;
  May Allah keep thee in good health!
  Well hast thou learned the use of wealth.
  No longer buried under-ground,
  Its comforts spread to all around.
  The poor man's blessings on thy name
  Are better far than worldly fame.
  I called thee hither. Now, behold,
  Here are the silver, gems, and gold
  I took from thee in other days;
  Receive them back, and go thy ways,
  For thou hast learned this truth at last--
  Would that it might be sown broadcast!--
  That riches are but worthless pelf
  When hoarded only for one's self."

  S. S. C.

[Begun in No. 1 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, Nov. 4.]

THE BRAVE SWISS BOY.

V.--WALTER HAS A NEW ADVENTURE.

Toni Hirzel recovered but slowly from the injuries he had suffered, and the entire winter passed
away before he found himself able to make use of his limbs again. But the doctor's fears that
he would never be able to resume the life of a mountaineer were unfortunately confirmed. He
never properly recovered the use of his foot; and Toni often cast a sorrowful glance at the
gun now hanging useless on the wall. To this cause of regret there was added anxiety for the
future. The chase, which had hitherto so materially assisted in supplying his wants, could
no longer be followed; and although Walter had grown tall and strong, he was not experienced
enough to take his father's place. In addition to this, Hirzel had expressly forbidden his
boy to have anything more to do with hunting, which sooner or later would be sure to lead to
a violent and dreadful death; and in order to remove temptation as much as possible from him,
he sold his gun to one of his neighbors.

"Now, Watty," said he, putting the eighty francs which he had received into a drawer, "we have
got nearly money enough for another cow, and we must see if we can't raise the remainder, that
we may have at least milk and butter."

"We have got plenty of money, father," replied Watty. "There is the hundred francs that Mr.
Seymour gave me lying useless in the desk, and I insist upon your taking the half of it at
least, to replenish the byre. But," added he, with a sigh, "without chamois-hunting I do not
see how matters are to go with us. Do you know, father, I have been thinking that I might do
something to earn my living."

"In what way, Watty?"

"Well, I might go down to the inn every day, and offer my services to the visitors as a guide.
I know all the roads, and can show the people the way to the Blue Grotto, or conduct them to
the peaks of the Wellhorn and Engelhorn; and as the landlord is always so friendly, I'm sure
he would recommend me."

"Not a bad idea," replied Hirzel. "To be sure, it is only for the summer; but as there are
always a good many travellers, you might be able to save enough to carry you through the winter.
Turn guide, then, Watty," he added, after a little more consideration, "and I will stay at
home and attend to the house and the cow. Let us be thankful I'm strong enough for that, at
any rate."

The plan of operations which was thus arranged was not, however, destined to be carried into
effect, for the next day Frieshardt came to pay a visit to the cottage, with a proposal of
quite a different kind. He had shown himself very attentive and neighborly since Hirzel's accident,
and had given him proofs of kindly feeling during the period of his convalescence. The old
friendship had therefore been fully restored, and the affair of the cow and the borrowed money
had been long since forgotten. Hirzel rose as Frieshardt entered, and gave him a hearty welcome,
in which he was cordially joined by Walter.

"I have got a suggestion to make to you, neighbor," said the well-to-do farmer, seating himself
near the fire.

"To me!" exclaimed Hirzel. "What can a poor man like me do to serve you?"

"I don't mean you so much as Watty," continued Frieshardt. "He has grown a tall, sensible fellow
now, and I know he is honest, every inch of him."

"Ah! you are right there, neighbor, although I say it to his face," replied Hirzel.--"You don't
need to blush, boy. It is nothing more than your duty to behave honestly.--But what can Watty
do for you?"

"Well, the long and the short of the matter is this," said the farmer. "I've got sixty head
of cattle down in Meyringen, which I am going to send to France to sell. A drover has been
recommended to me who understands the business, but I should like to send some reliable person
with him to look after the money, and see that everything is properly attended to. I think
Walter would be the man for me, if he will agree to it. He shall have good wages, and everything
done to make him comfortable."

Father and son exchanged looks, and each saw in the countenance of the other that the proposal
was a good one. "If my father is satisfied," said the youth, "I shall be delighted to go."

"Well said," replied Frieshardt, evidently pleased. "Now let's hear what you want for the journey."

"I would rather you would say what you will give," answered Walter. "I don't understand such
things very well."

"Well, then, I'll pay all your expenses there and back, and give you a hundred francs into
the bargain. Are you satisfied with that?"

"Yes, more than satisfied," replied the boy. "But I should like it better if you would give
father a cow now, instead of giving me the money afterward. I should be glad indeed if he could
get one before I go away."

"But what would you want for yourself when you come back?"

"Nothing, neighbor. If you will only grant my request I shall be quite contented and thankful."

"Well," said Frieshardt, "you are a dutiful and kind-hearted son, and I'm sure you will be
a faithful servant. You shall have my cow Black Elsy, and your father can fetch her whenever
he chooses. Meanwhile, you must be ready to go to Meyringen to-morrow morning," continued Frieshardt.
"I will go with you, and give you all the instructions you will require. It won't be a difficult
affair, and I'm sure you will manage it easily. Adieu, till morning."

With these cheering words the farmer left Walter and his father to talk over the unexpected
change in their fortunes.

Shortly afterward Walter repaired to Frieshardt's farm, and came back leading Black Elsy in
triumph; and after taking farewell of his father, returned to Frieshardt's house on the following
morning. The route which Walter's employer chose led them past the splendid waterfalls of the
Reichenbach to the charming village of Meyringen, where the cattle were collected. When they
reached the village they found a drover of the name of Seppi waiting for them; and to the latter,
as well as to Walter, the farmer gave the necessary instructions regarding the treatment of
the herd during the ensuing journey.

Our young hero entered upon the journey actuated by the best of motives, the duty of looking
after the cattle absorbing so much of his attention that he had very little opportunity for
increasing his acquaintance with his travelling companion. The fact was, however, that he did
not feel himself much drawn toward Seppi, from whom he had received anything but a very friendly
welcome when they first met; the drover had, moreover, a rough and uncultivated manner, which
was somewhat repulsive. His treatment of the animals was unduly harsh when any of them became
restive and obstinate, and he seemed angry when Walter checked his cruel behavior, and pointed
out to him that the dumb animals intrusted to his care should be treated with kindness and
patience. But by degrees the young men became more reconciled to each other; and as Walter
accustomed himself to the ungainly appearance of his companion, he came to the generous conclusion
that Seppi had an honest and well-meaning heart in spite of his rough and unpolished ways.

They soon reached the French frontier, and after a long journey found themselves in the outskirts
of Paris. Walter had arranged the stages so well that the animals were in admirable condition,
and warranted the expectation of a good and prompt sale. Seppi was of the same opinion, and
said he thought they would sell for even more than the price Frieshardt had named.

"I think they will," assented Walter, cheerfully. "The cattle are in splendid order, and we'll
see if we can't astonish Mr. Frieshardt when we get home."

"Ay, ay; we shall see," echoed Seppi, with a peculiar expression of voice.

The cattle were all sold at high prices within three days, and Walter decided to start for
home the next morning.

"But why need we be in such a hurry?" inquired Seppi.

"Because we've nothing more to stay for, and the longer we stay here, the more expense we shall
cause to Mr. Frieshardt, and that would be very wrong."

The drover shrugged his shoulders, and after a long interval added, cautiously, "You must be
very soft, Walter. If you were only a little more wide-awake, we might make a good thing for
ourselves out of this affair, and no one be any the wiser."

"In what way?"

"Don't you see what I mean?" continued Seppi, with a cunning smile. "You've got about one-third
more cash than Frieshardt expects. What is there to hinder us from dividing it between us?
It would be a good thing for us, and nobody could ever find it out, because we should both
keep it dark."

"I hope you are only joking," said Walter, with a serious look. "Do you think I am going to
swindle my master because he has put so much confidence in me? You can't surely be in earnest,
Seppi. You only want to test my honesty."

"Bother your honesty," returned Seppi. "Sharpness is better than honesty nowadays. You've got
more than thirty thousand francs in that belt round your waist; we've only got to divide it
between us, and then we could lead a glorious life in Paris. No one could ever find us out,
for the city is so large that Frieshardt might search for weeks before getting on our track.
Look at that, Walter! You'll perhaps never have such a splendid chance again as long as you
live. What have you to lose at home? Nothing. You'll only be a poor half-starved fellow if
you go back. Now's your time. Seize the opportunity at once, like a man."

Walter refused, with great indignation, to heed this infamous advice. His earnest words were
followed by a loud burst of laughter from his companion. "Don't fly into a rage, comrade, and
excite yourself that way," said Seppi. "You don't seem to know what a joke is. Just as if we
could pocket all that money without the police being at our heels directly. Why, we should
get at least ten years' imprisonment without any manner of doubt. No, no; I merely wanted to
see whether you were really as honest and straightforward as Frieshardt made you out to be,
and I see he didn't praise you more than you deserve. Give me your hand, old fellow, and believe
me when I tell you that you shall never be tried this way again. If you like, I will leave
Paris with you this very night, to prove to you that I was only making fun."

Walter drew a long breath. "Thank God that it was only a joke!" said he, returning the friendly
grasp of Seppi, of whose thorough sincerity he seemed to entertain no longer any doubt. "I
am quite agreeable to start to-night, for so much money makes me feel anxious, and I sha'n't
be comfortable till it is in the hands of our master."

"Well, we can get off at once," assented Seppi, "and then we shall get to Boissy before nightfall.
I know a cheap and comfortable inn there; so the sooner we're off the better."

Much pleased that his companion should agree so readily to leave Paris, Walter felt sorry that
he had entertained any doubts of his character, even for a moment. Their simple preparations
were speedily made, and half an hour afterward they set out upon their return, and took the
road to Boissy.

It was dark by the time they reached their destination; but as Seppi knew the village well,
he had no difficulty in finding the inn, which was about ten minutes' walk from the high-road.
The house was old and uncomfortable in its appearance, and produced a very unfavorable impression
upon Walter; but the welcome they received from the landlord was so cordial that the impression
was at once removed. An old married couple and a young and powerfully built fellow seemed to
be the only occupants of the large building. At Seppi's order a bottle of wine was brought,
and Walter, being somewhat fatigued with the journey, was easily persuaded to take more than
his usual allowance. Overpowered with drowsiness, his head sunk down upon the table, and in
a few seconds the unsuspecting youth was in a profound slumber.

"There's a snorer for you!" said Seppi to the man who had waited upon them. "Lend me a hand
to get him to bed, André."

Whereupon they carried him up stairs, and along a passage, to a small room at the farther end,
and laid him on a bed just as he was. Having struck a light, André was about to leave the room,
when he was detained by the other.

"Look here," said Seppi, taking some money from his pocket. "I am going away again to-morrow
morning before daybreak, and may not be back until the day after. Here is payment for our supper
and night's lodging. My friend will stay here, and you must not on any account allow him to
go away till I come back. Give him anything he asks for; but keep an eye on him, for he is
not right in his head, and must either have some one always with him, or be locked in his room.
I can't take him with me in the morning, and so I have brought him here, where I know he will
be in good hands. You will promise to attend to what I have told you, André?"

"Your instructions shall be attended to," replied the other, slipping the gold coin which Seppi
tendered him into his pocket. "You shall have no reason to complain."

"That's well. When I come back you shall have another gold piece if I find everything right.
And look here: only bolt the outer door to-night instead of locking it, or else leave the key
in the lock, so that I can get away in the morning without waking anybody."

The man promised to attend to that also, and quitted the apartment. When he was gone, Seppi
bolted the room door, and gazed at his unconscious companion with a malicious scowl.

"Fool!" said he, "I made you a fair offer when I proposed to go halves with the money; but
as you were idiot enough to decline, so much the better for me. When you wake in the morning
you'll be sorry you let the chance slip."

Thus muttering to himself, he unbuckled the money-belt that was round the waist of the sleeping
man, and fastened it securely round his own. He then abstracted Walter's passport and the other
papers that were in his pockets, without arousing him.

"He lies there like a dead dog," thought the drover; "and, with the dose I gave him, is not
likely to trouble any one till morning."

Waiting impatiently for more than an hour, until every one was in bed and the house silent,
Seppi quitted the room on tiptoe, locked the door on the outside, and crept noiselessly along
the passage and down the stairs. André had not forgotten to leave the outer door unlocked,
and pushing back the bolt with the greatest caution, the ruffian slipped out, and as soon as
he had got clear of the village hurried away at the top of his speed.

The Swiss drover had shown great cunning in his scheme to get possession of the money from
Walter, and he carried it out with equal boldness. He had often helped to drive cattle to Paris
before, and knew the roads well. He had frequently been at the inn at Boissy, and its distance
from Paris, and the character of the man who attended to the business, recommended it as well
suited to his purpose. André, like many others of his kind, was greedy of money, and the golden
bribe quieted all his doubts as to the truth of the story about his companion. Seppi, on his
side, knowing that the sleeping powder which he had secretly mixed with Walter's wine was sufficient
to prevent him waking for nearly a whole day, gave himself no further trouble as to what might
happen in the way of pursuit. It was enough for him that his stratagem had been successful,
and he hastened along the well-known by-paths until he had left Boissy far behind.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

GOLD-FISH.

Some time during the seventeenth century, about two hundred years ago, Portuguese sailors saw
swimming in the lakes and rivers of China and Japan a very beautiful variety of fish, which
glistened like gold. They captured some specimens, and brought them to Portugal. The little
fish found the lakes of Europe as pleasant to live in as the lakes of China, and they at once
domesticated themselves, and raised their little families, until the European streams became
well stocked with these beautiful creatures. They are also found in many brooks and streams
in the United States.

The glistening gold-color of these fishes made them much sought for as household ornaments,
and the demand for them became so general that establishments were opened for raising them
for the market. One of the largest and most celebrated of these places for gold-fish breeding
is in Oldenburg, Germany, where more than a hundred small ponds contain the fish in all stages
of growth, from the tiniest baby to the big stout fellow eight and even ten inches long. The
little ones are carefully kept apart from larger ones, for the gold-fish is a wicked cannibal,
and devours its little brothers and sisters, and even its own children, whenever it has an
opportunity. At the same time it is a great coward, and will hide away from fish much smaller
than itself that have the spirit to attack it. A gentleman who possessed an aquarium in which
were several large gold-fish, once placed a tiny "pumpkin-seed," or sunfish, about the size
of a silver half dollar, in the water. Watching anxiously to see that the gold-fish did not
injure it, what was his astonishment to see the "pumpkin-seed" dart furiously at the larger
fish, which huddled themselves in a corner, or scurried hastily through the water to hide among
the stones and mimic grottoes of the aquarium! From that moment the "pumpkin-seed" remained
lord of the field, scarcely allowing his companions to come to the surface, as they are fond
of doing, or to take a mouthful of food until he had satisfied his own hunger. Finally he had
to be removed from the aquarium, to save the gold-fish from dying of fright.

The enormous demand for gold-fish is shown by the fact that from the establishment at Oldenburg
alone over three hundred thousand fish are sent to market every year. Their price varies according
to their size and beauty, for there are grades of beauty in gold-fish as well as in all other
things. They are very pretty household ornaments, and by caring for them and carefully watching
their habits, boys and girls may learn their first lesson in natural history. Still, the fish
may be healthier if kept in an aquarium, as it allows more surface to the water, and consequently
more air and ventilation. In any case, fresh water should be given the fish at least every
other day, and if the globe or aquarium be ornamented with rocks and water-grasses, the fish
should be carefully dipped out once a week, and the rocks thoroughly cleansed from all impurities.

Although the fish draw nourishment from animalcules supplied by the water, and will live a
long time without other food, it is advisable to feed them by throwing bread-crumbs, or flies
and other small insects, on the surface of the water. The eagerness with which they dart for
them proves them to be welcome. Care should be taken not to scatter more bread-crumbs than
will be immediately eaten, for bread sours very quickly, and renders the water impure. In changing
the water the fish should never be subjected to any sudden variation of temperature, as the
shock produced by a violent change from water of medium temperature, which is always best,
to ice-cold, might ruin the whole stock of an aquarium in an instant.

The ingenious Chinese make great pets of their gold-fish, and with patience teach them many
tricks, such as eating from their hands, or rushing to be fed at the tinkle of a bell.

The gold-fish belongs to the genus Cyprinus, or the great carp family, and is sometimes called
the golden carp.

IX.--OUT.

But, alas! out was very much like in, for the same enemy, the darkness, was here also.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Royal Fern.=--A legend has been handed down from the time of the Danish invasions of Britain,
explanatory of the generic name of Osmunda--an island, covered with large specimens of this
fern, figuring prominently in the story. Osmund, the ferryman of Loch Tyne, had a beautiful
child, who was the pride of his life and the joy of his heart. In those days, when the merciless
Danes were making their terrible descents upon the coasts of Great Britain, slaughtering the
peaceful inhabitants, and pillaging wherever they went, no man could say how long he would
be free from molestation and outrage. But Osmund, throughout the troublous times, had lived
quietly in his country home with his wife and beautiful daughter.

The peaceful calm of his life was, however, destined to be broken. One evening the ferryman
was sitting, with his wife and child, on the margin of the lake, after his day's work. The
setting sun was tingeing with roseate glory the fleecy banks of cloud, piled up against the
horizon, silvering the surface of the rippling lake, and adding a richer hue to the golden
locks of Osmund's darling child. Suddenly the sound of hurrying footsteps startled the quiet
group. Men, women, and children came hastening from the neighboring village, and breathlessly,
as they passed, they told the ferryman that the terrible Danes were coming. Quick as thought
Osmund sprang to his feet, seized his wife and child, and hurried them into his ferry-boat.
Away he rowed with them pulling for very life--in the direction of a small island in the loch,
densely covered with the tall and stately fronds of the royal fern. He quickly hid his precious
charges amongst the clustering fronds, and then rowed rapidly back to his ferry place. He had
rightly divined that the Danes needed his assistance, and would not hurt him.

For many hours of the ensuing night he worked with might and main to carry the fierce invaders
across the ferry. When they had all disappeared on the opposite bank, Osmund returned to his
trembling wife and child, and brought them safely back to his cottage. In commemoration, it
is said, of this event, the fair daughter of Osmund gave the great island fern her father's
name. Those who care not to accept this fanciful origin of the name Osmunda, will perhaps incline
to another suggestion which has been made, that the generic name had been derived from an old
Saxon word signifying strength, the specific name indicating its royal or stately habit of growth.

TRAVELLING BAG FOR PETS.

Little girls who like to carry their pets with them on a journey will be glad to know how to
make this pretty and convenient bag, by means of which Fido and Mutt can travel like princes.
The bag is made of black leather, and is closed on the side with a lock and key and clamps.
The pocket for holding the dog is fifteen inches wide and nine inches and a half high. The
front is cut out, leaving a margin on the edges an inch and a half wide, and the opening is
filled with a wire screen, through which the little prisoner can see and breathe freely. For
protection, the screen is covered by two leather flaps, fastened one at the bottom and one
at the top of the bag, which overlap each other, and are secured by steel clasps.

We do not print all letters received, as some are too long, and others simply ask a question,
to which we give an answer. Here is a pretty letter which needs no comments:

     I am a little boy eleven years old, and have been living in South
     Carolina, but last summer I got hurt while playing with the boys,
     and have been sick ever since. I have not walked for five months.
     My parents have brought me to Salem, Massachusetts, where I could
     have good doctor's care. My cousin, who lives in New York, very
     kindly sends me Harper's Young People, and I want to tell you how
     much I enjoy it. I am very lonely lying still all the time, but the
     boys come to see me, and one of them has two rabbits for me when I
     am able to take care of them. I wish all the little boys and girls
     could have your paper, it is so nice.

  HORACE F. HUTCHINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FRED," of Montclair, New Jersey, writes:

     I have a handsome yellow cat named Goldy. My cousins Howard and
     Charlie have a cat named Blacky, and a dog named Jack. Papa reads
     us Harper's Young People every Sunday, and I like it very much.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here are some very pleasant words from J. E. Woodbridge, Duluth, Minnesota:

     I wish to tell you how I like your paper. I do really like it. I
     wish you would put boys' pieces in the paper for speaking in
     school. I live in Duluth, on the shore of a very big lake--the
     biggest in the world, I think. I am seven years old. I have a
     little yellow dog, and he grins when he is pleased.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES LONG.--The examinations for admission to the school-ship St. Mary's are easily passed
by any school-boy of moderate ability, but it is indispensable that the applicant be physically
sound, and of good moral character. Neither money nor influence is needed to gain admission,
and the expense on entering is confined to the cost of outfit and uniform. You can make fuller
inquiries of David R. Wetmore, Esq., chairman of the Committee on Nautical School, of the New
York City Board of Education, or on board the St. Mary's, which is now in winter-quarters at
the foot of East Twenty-third Street, New York city.

       *       *       *       *       *

C. D. F.--The measurement of glasses for "Boy's Telescope" refers to the focus, not to the
size of glass. Any reliable optician will supply you with the lenses.

       *       *       *       *       *

AGNES P.--Your answers to puzzles are correct. We do not know the address of Lulu W., but will
print it if she will send it to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LOUISE," Dubuque.--Your account of Sir Rowland Hill is correct, and very neatly written, but
as it is almost the same as those we have already printed, we do not give it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MAX."--Your numerical charade is very good, but contains too many repetitions of the same
letter to be perfect; therefore we do not print it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Answers sent by R. Dunlop Foster, Chicago, to mathematical puzzles are correct, with the exception
of No. 2, which is not carried back to the original amount possessed by the poor old man when
the water-spirit made his first offer.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. A. C., Rochester, writes: I have commenced taking your little paper, and I write now to
tell you that I am delighted with it. I read it to my brothers and sisters, who are very much
interested in the story of "The Brave Swiss Boy."

       *       *       *       *       *

J. E. B., another bright little girl, gives us a scolding, which we hope she will retract before
long.

       *       *       *       *       *

H. A. T.--We can not give any puzzles not accompanied by full name and address of the sender,
as well as the answers.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following communication from a youthful reader in Washington, D. C., will be of interest
to young bicyclists in other cities:

     Here in the City of Magnificent Distances, where many of the
     streets are 100 feet wide and the avenues 160, the speed of the
     bicycle surpasses even that of the horse.

     Many of the streets are "concrete," and a run over them is sure to
     be attended with boundless pleasure, and often a race.

     There are about thirty bicyclists in the city, twenty of whom have
     formed a club. To see them, with their blue caps and leather
     leggings, six abreast, coming down the Avenue with their arms
     folded, causes many an equestrian to spur up his horse in vain.

     Through the surrounding villages it is a common occurrence to see
     eight or ten bicyclists pass, especially on public holidays.

     Many riders have a small bell attached to the handle, which is rung
     as an alarm to pedestrians, for the approach of the bicycle is as
     devoid of noise as that of the tiger. In the evening a lantern also
     is hung on the axle of the driving-wheel between the spokes, and
     the noiseless and rapid approach of such a red light might suggest
     to a stranger thoughts of the infernal regions.

     In conclusion, I will say that bicycling is the most exhilarating
     and invigorating pastime for boys ever yet discovered.

  N. L. C.

THE CAT SHOW.

A THANKSGIVING EPISODE.

BY MRS. W. J. HAYS, AUTHOR OF "THE PRINCESS IDLEWAYS."

"Yes, next month comes that old, everlasting Thanksgiving-day. I wonder why we have to spend
more than half of it at the dinner table!"

"Suppose we don't? Let us strike out on a new lead."

"What can we do? Grandmother's pumpkin pies must be eaten, and grandfather's great turkey must
be carved."

"Well, Charlie, I like originality."

"What is that, Sue?--anything in the candy shop?"

"You dreadful boy! You are just too--"

"Sweet for anything," put in Charlie.

Sue jumped up and tried to box his ears; but she chased him out into the hall, and tripped
over the mats, and away he went up the stairs, and stood laughing at her as she gathered up
her worsted-work.

"If I were a gentleman," said Sue, in her haughtiest manner, "I would assist my friends when
misfortune overtook them."

"Hear! hear!" cried Charlie.

"I had the nicest little plan to propose," she went on.

"What was it, Sue?" said Charlie, whose curiosity was aroused.

"Not a word more to one so ungallant, so very rude."

"Ah, Sue dear," coaxed Charlie, coming down and putting his arm around her, "you are the nicest
little sister in the world, if you did want to box my ears. Now tell us the plan, that's a
darling."

"Well, it isn't much, after all; it is only that I want to make Thanksgiving a little more
of a reality, and I thought--now, Charlie, don't laugh at me--that if we could do something
for somebody, which would make him thankful, wouldn't it be nicer."

"And who did you think of?"

"I thought of old black Betsey and her husband, they both are so old and so poor. Suppose we
give them a dinner?"

"All by ourselves? Where would we get the money?"

"We will have an exhibition of cats. I will borrow Aunt May's old tabby, and John's big Tom,
and Lulie Bell's five white kittens, and we have our own, and you can get others, and we will
rig up a room in the barn, and put placards up, and I will tie bright ribbons on all their
necks, and we'll charge ten cents for grown people and five cents for children, and--oh, I
don't know what else."

"Splendid!"

The idea suited Charlie, and no time must be lost. Every day was valuable. Mother was consulted,
and had no objections. Father gave permission to use the harness-room. The cats were borrowed:
big cats and little cats, sleepy old pussies and lively young kits, gray cats, white cats,
and "cherry-colored cats," as the placard read. "For one day only," was also on the placard.
Charlie was door-keeper, and a busy time had Sue in keeping peace among the pussies. They screamed
and scratched, and kept up a perfect Pinafore chorus, until the child wished she was deaf,
or could give them all opium; but the day wore on, and all the children of their acquaintance
enjoyed the sport, and not a few of the elders looked in upon them. By evening Charlie was
rejoicing in the possession of a full money-box, but his face grew long as he counted the pennies.
In reply to Sue's eager query of "How much?"

"Only two dollars and a half," was his dejected reply.

"Well, we can buy lots of things with that," said Sue, whose knowledge of marketing was limited.

"I am afraid it will take all for the turkey."

"Then we'll get chickens," said Sue.

"And how about cranberry jelly?"

"Mother will give us apples from her barrel."

"And celery, and sweet-potatoes, and all the other goodies?"

"We must make it all do. I will go to Mr. Scott, the grocer, and tell him we want everything
at the very lowest price."

"Well, I leave it all to you," said Charlie, with masculine disdain of details, and scorn for
so small a sum.

"That is right. You'll see how I will manage," said Sue, confidently.

And manage she did.

Thanksgiving was a cold, bleak day, and old black Betsey had no idea of leaving her fireside
for church.

"I can give my tanks jist as well one place as anodder," said she, in reply to a sweet coaxing
voice which was urging her to go out.

"Now please just go to oblige me, Aunt Betsey," said Sue; "Charlie and I want you and Uncle
Jake to go to church for a very particular reason. You can not refuse me, I am sure."

The old woman grumbled and scolded and shuffled about in a discontented way, but the pleading
little Sue stood firm, and gave an exulting shout as she finally closed the door upon both of them.

"Hurrah!" exclaimed Charlie, and then they both went to work.

The poor little cabin had to be swept and dusted, and all the cracked crockery well wiped,
but Sue had tied on a great big apron, and Charlie pinned on a huge towel, and declared himself
head waiter. Then the market-basket, carefully concealed in the wood-shed, had to be unpacked,
and Sue's mother had given a bright red table-cover, and all sorts of nice little things to
fill up corners; and when at last everything was set out, and green boughs hung over the doors,
and the ready-cooked turkey was fizzing over again in the oven, and the dinner was ready, Sue
and Charlie hid themselves behind a door and waited for Aunt Betsey and Uncle Jake. Slowly
the old people came grumbling home as they had grumbled out. They were old and stiff and poor,
and what was there to be thankful for? For the rheumatism? Yes, if God willed it, said Aunt
Betsey, who, however, was far from cheerful.

They pushed open the door, and the savory smell of cooking saluted them.

"Hi, Uncle Jake, what you tink o' dis? what's de meanin' of all dis yer?" said Aunt Betsey.

Uncle Jake's mouth opened wide, as if the better to inhale the rich odors.

"Who's bin hiyar? What dose chillen bin about? Good gracious me! if dis ain't a dinner fit
fur a king."

Uncle Jake's grin burst into a laugh.

"Oh my! dey meant we should hab a Tanksgivin' in yearnest;" and the two old souls shook their
sides with laughter.

"De good Lord bress dose chillen, an' give 'em as tankful hearts as we hab dis day!" said Aunt
Betsey.

Sue and Charlie had meant to give a glorious war-whoop and shout, but their voices would not
come, and when they looked at each other the tears came welling up from their tender little hearts.

"Come, Sue," said Charlie, "let us get away without their seeing us. Who ever thought a cat
show would make two people so glad!"

They went home to their own dinner with a new idea of Thanksgiving-day; it seemed a better
and a fresher feast; and after the day was done and the stars came out twinkling their thanks,
and the children, tired with play and glad to rest, laid down their sleepy heads on their pillows,
their angels whispered softly dreams of peace and joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Hottest Spot on Earth.=--One of the hottest regions on earth is along the Persian Gulf,
where little or no rain falls. At Bahrein the arid shore has no fresh water, yet a comparatively
numerous population contrive to live there, thanks to the copious springs which break forth
from the bottom of the sea. The fresh water is got by diving. The diver, sitting in his boat,
winds a great goat-skin bag around his left arm, the hand grasping its mouth; then takes in
his right hand a heavy stone, to which is attached a strong line, and thus equipped he plunges
in, and quickly reaches the bottom. Instantly opening the bag over the strong jet of fresh
water, he springs up the ascending current, at the same time closing the bag, and is helped
aboard. The stone is then hauled up, and the diver, after taking a breath, plunges again. The
source of the copious submarine springs is thought to be in the green hills of Osman, some
500 or 600 miles distant.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Acres of Perfume.=--Some idea of the magnitude of the business of raising sweet-scented flowers
for their perfume may be gathered from the fact that Europe and British India alone consume
about 150,000 gallons of handkerchief perfume yearly. There is one great perfume distillery
at Cannes, in France, which uses yearly about 100,000 pounds of acacia flowers, 140,000 pounds
of rare flower leaves, 32,000 pounds of jasmine blossoms, and 20,000 pounds of tuberose blossoms,
together with an immense quantity of other material used for perfume. Victoria, in New South
Wales, is a noted place for the production of perfume-yielding plants, because such plants
as the mignonette, sweet verbena, jasmine, rose, lavender, acacia, heliotrope, rosemary, wallflower,
laurel, orange, and the sweet-scented geraniums grow there in greater perfection than in any
other part of the world. South Australia, it is believed, would also be a good place for the
growing of perfume-producing plants, though at present not much cultivated.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLIND PIGS.

The other evening, seated around the table as usual, we had a hearty laugh over a new idea
that Bob had learned from one of his school-mates.

"Now you all take a pencil and piece of paper," he directed, "and try to draw a pig with your
eyes shut."

"I can't draw a pig with my eyes open," said Mamie.

"That's just the reason," said Bob. "Now look here: begin at the ears, then draw the nose,
and go on drawing the legs and the back, and when you think you've got round to the ears again,
put in the eye, and then the tail; but you must keep your eyes shut tight."

So we each tried a pig, and--well, I would never eat roast pork or fried ham again if I thought
real pigs were shaped like ours.

Just try making one some dull evening, and see if you do not have a good laugh, that is all.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Face-Painting.=--Chinese men do not paint their faces, either on the stage or elsewhere, but
in Japan actors in certain plays are painted on the face with bright streaks of red paint,
put on usually on each side of the eyes. The kind of painting is exactly that of savages. It
is a curious fact that this form of painting, surviving in adults on the stage, is still used
elsewhere for the decoration of young children. It is quite common to see children on festive
occasions, when elaborately dressed by their parents, further adorned with one or two transverse
narrow streaks of bright red paint, leading outward from the outer corner of their eyes, or
placed near that position. Such a form of painting possibly existed in ancient times in China--perhaps
to distinguish fighting men.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO MATHEMATICAL PUZZLES IN NUMBER 2.

No. 1.--The first man had 7 sheep; the second man had 5 sheep.

No. 2.--The old man had 21 cents when the water-spirit first appeared to him.

No. 3.--The grocer had 31 eggs; the first woman bought 16, the second woman bought 8, the third
4, and the fourth 2.

No. 4.--Each son received $7000.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO NUMERICAL CHARADE IN NUMBER 2.

Cetewayo.

Single subscriptions for one year, $1.50; five subscriptions, one year, $7.00: payable in advance.
Postage free.

Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York.

