The cope is of splendid gold brocade of a fine Gothic pattern, with orfreys or borders richly
embroidered with figures of saints, and is fastened in front by a great square gold and jewelled
morse. All the draperies are very finely modelled and richly coloured, but finest of all is
St. Peter's face, solemn and stern and yet kindly, without any of that pride and arrogance
which would seem but natural to the wearer of such vestments; it is, with its grey hair and
short grey beard, rather the face of the fisherman of Galilee than that of a Pope.

Through the arches to the right and left above a low wall are seen the beginning and the end
of his ministry. On the one side he is leaving his boat and his nets to become a fisher of
men, and on the other he kneels before the vision of Our Lord, when fleeing from Rome he met
Him at the place now called 'Quo Vadis' on the Appian way, and so was turned back to meet his
martyrdom.

Fortunately this painting has suffered from no restoration, and is still wonderfully clean,
but the wood on which it is painted has split rather badly in places, one large crack running
from top to bottom just beyond the throne on St. Peter's right.

This 'St. Peter,' then, is entirely Flemish in the painting of the drapery and of the scenes
behind; especially of the turreted Gothic walls of Rome. The details of the throne may be classic,
but French renaissance forms were first introduced into the country at Belem in 1517, just
the time when the cathedral here was being built by Bishop Dom Diogo Ortiz de Vilhegas. This,
and the other pictures in the sacristy, were doubtless once parts of the great reredos, which
would not be put up till the church was quite finished, and so may not have been painted till
some time after 1520, or even later. Already in 1522 much renaissance work was being done at
Coimbra, not far off, so it is possible that the painter of these pictures may have adopted
his classic detail from what he may have seen there.

It is worth noting, too, that preserved in the sacristy at Vizeu there is, or was,[16] a cope
so like that worn by St. Peter, that the painting must almost certainly have been copied from it.

We may therefore conclude that these pictures are the work of some one who had indeed studied
abroad, probably at Antwerp, but who worked at home.

Not only to paint religious pictures and portraits did Flemish artists come to Portugal. One
at least, Antonio de

Hollanda, was famous for his illuminations. He lived and worked at Evora, and is said by his
son Francisco to have been the first in Portugal 'to make known a pleasing manner of painting
in black and white, superior to all processes known in other countries.'[17]

When the convent of Thomar was being finished by Dom João III., some large books were in November
1533 sent on a mule to Antonio at Evora to be illuminated. Two of these books were finished
and paid for in February 1535, when he received 63$795 or about £15. The books were bound at
Evora for 4$000 or sixteen shillings.

By the end of the next year a Psalter was finished which cost 54$605 or £12, at the rate of
6$000, £1, 6s. 8d. for each of four large headings, forty illuminated letters with vignettes
at 2s. 2d. each, a hundred and fifteen without vignettes at fivepence-halfpenny, two hundred
and three in red, gold, and blue at fourpence-farthing, eighty-four drawn in black at twopence,
and 2846 small letters at the beginning of each verse at less than one farthing. Next March
this Psalter was brought back to Thomar on a mule whose hire was two shillings and twopence--a
sum small enough for a journey of well over a hundred miles,[18] but which may help us the
better to estimate the value of the money paid to Antonio.[19]

CHURCH PLATE.

A very great part of the church plate of Portugal has long since disappeared, for few chapters
had the foresight to hide all that was most valuable when Soult began his devastating march
from the north, and so he and his men were able to encumber their retreat with cart-loads of
the most beautiful gold and silver ornaments.

Yet a good deal has survived, either because it was hidden away as at Guimarães or at Coimbra--where
it is said to have been only found lately--or because, as at Evora, it lay apart from the course
of this famous plunderer.

The richest treasuries at the present day are those of Nossa Senhora da Oliveira at Guimarães,
and of the Sés at Braga, at Coimbra, and at Evora.

A silver-gilt chalice and a pastoral staff of the twelfth century in the sacristy at Braga
are among the oldest pieces of plate in the country. The chalice is about five inches high.
The cup, ornamented with animals and leaves, stands on a plain base inscribed, 'In n[=m]e D[=m]i
Menendus Gundisaluis de Tuda domna sum.' It is called the chalice of São Giraldo, and is supposed
to have belonged to that saint, who as archbishop of Braga baptized Affonso Henriques.

The staff of copper-gilt is in the form of a snake with a cross in its mouth, and though almost
certainly of the twelfth century is said to have been found in the tomb of Santo Ovidio, the
third archbishop of the see.

Another very fine chalice of the same date is in the treasury at Coimbra. Here the round cup
is enriched by an arcade, under each arch of which stands a saint, while on the base are leaves
and medallions with angels. It is inscribed, 'Geda Menendis me fecit in onore sci. Michaelis
e. MCLXXXX.', that is A.D. 1152.

It was no doubt given by Dom Miguel, who ruled the see from 1162 to 1176 and who spent so much
on the old cathedral and on its furniture. For him Master Ptolomeu made silver altar fronts,
and the goldsmith Felix a jug and basin for the service of the altar. He also had a gold chalice
made weighing 4 marks, probably the one made by Geda Menendis, and a gold cross to enclose
some pieces of the Holy Sepulchre and two pieces of the True Cross.

At Guimarães the chalice of São Torquato is of the thirteenth century. The cup is quite plain
and small, but on the wide-spreading base are eight enamels of Our Lady and of seven of the
Apostles.

The finest of all the objects in the Guimarães treasury is the reredos, taken by Dom João I.
from the Spanish king's tent after the victory of Aljubarrota, and one of the angels which
once went with it.

The same king also gave to the small church of São Miguel a silver processional cross, all
embossed with oak leaves, and ending in fleurs-de-lys, which rises from two superimposed octagons,
covered with Gothic ornament.

Another beautiful cross now at Coimbra has a 'Virgin and Child' in the centre under a rich
canopy, and enamels of the four Evangelists on the arms, while the rest of the surface including
the foliated ends is covered with exquisitely pierced flowing tracery. (Fig. 5.)

Earlier are the treasures which once belonged the Queen St. Isabel who died in 1327, and which
are still preserved at Coimbra. These include a beautiful and simple cross of agate and silver,
a curious reliquary made of a branch of coral with silver mountings, her staff as abbess of
St. Clara, shaped like the cross of an Eastern bishop, and with heads of animals at the ends
of the arms, and a small ark-shaped reliquary of silver and coral now set on a high renaissance
base.

But nearly all the surviving church plate dates from the time of Dom Manoel or his son.

To Braga Archbishop Diogo de Souza gave a splendid silver-gilt chalice in 1509. Here the cup
is adorned above by six angels holding emblems of the Passion, and below by six others holding
bells. Above them runs an inscription, Hic est calix sanguinis mei novi et eter. The stem is
entirely covered with most elaborate canopy work, with six Apostles in niches, while on the
base are five other Apostles in relief, the archbishop's arms, and six pieces of enamel.

Very similar is a splendid chalice in the Misericordia at Oporto, probably of about the same
date, and two at Coimbra. In both of these the cup is embossed with angels and leafage--in
one the angels hold bells--and the stem is covered with tabernacle work. On the base of the
one is a pietà with mourning angels and other emblems of the Passion in relief, while that
of the other is enriched with filigree work. (Fig. 6.)

Another at Guimarães given by Fernando Alvares is less well proportioned and less beautiful.

So far the architectural details of the chalices mentioned have been entirely national, but
there is a custodia at Evora, whose interlacing canopy work seems to betray the influence of
the Netherlands. The base of this custodia[20] or monstrance, in the shape of a chalice seems
later than the upper part, which is surmounted by a rounded canopy whose hanging cusps and
traceried panels strongly recall the Flemish work of the great reredos in the old cathedral
at Coimbra.

Even more Flemish are a pastoral staff made for Cardinal Henrique, son of Dom Manoel and afterwards
king, a monstrance or reliquary at Coimbra,[21] and another at Guimarães.[22]

Much splendid plate was also given to Santa Cruz at Coimbra by Dom Manoel, but all--candlesticks,
lamps, crosses and a monstrance--have since vanished, sent to Gôa in India when the canons
in the eighteenth century wanted something more fashionable.

Belem also possessed splendid treasures, among them a cross of silver filigree and jewels which
is still preserved.

Much filigree work is still done in the north, where the young women invest their savings in
great golden hearts or in beautiful earrings, though now bunches of coloured flowers on huge
lockets of coppery gold are much more sought after.

Curiously, many of the most famous goldsmiths of the sixteenth century were Jews. Among them
was the Vicente family, a member of which made a fine monstrance for Belem in 1505, and which,
like other families, was expelled from Coimbra to Guimarães between the years 1532 and 1537,
and doubtless wrought some of the beautiful plate for which the treasury of Nossa Senhora is
famous.

The seventeenth century, besides smaller works, has left the great silver tomb of the Holy
Queen St. Isabel in the new church of Santa Clara. Made by order of Bishop Dom Affonso de Castello
Branco in 1614, it weighs over 170 lbs., has at the sides and ends Corinthian columns, leaving
panels between them with beautifully chased framing, and a sloping top.

Later and less worthy of notice are the coffins of the two first sainted abbesses of the convent
of Lorvão, near Coimbra, in which elaborate acanthus scrolls in silver are laid over red velvet.

TILE WORK OR AZULEJOS.

The Moors occupied most of what is now Portugal for a considerable length of time. The extreme
north they held for rather less than two hundred years, the extreme south for more than five
hundred. This occupation by a governing class, so different in religion, in race, and in customs
from

those they ruled, has naturally had a strong influence, not only on the language of Portugal,
but also on the art. Though there survive no important Moorish buildings dating from before
the re-conquest--for the so-called mosque at Cintra is certainly a small Christian church--many
were built after it for Christians by Moorish workmen.

These, as well as the Arab ceilings, or those derived therefrom, will be described later, but
here must be mentioned the tilework, the most universally distributed legacy of the Eastern
people who once held the land. There is scarcely a church, certainly scarcely one of any size
or importance which even in the far north has not some lining or dado of tiles, while others
are entirely covered with them from floor to ceiling or vault.

The word azulejo applied to these tiles is derived from the Arabic azzallaja or azulaich, meaning
smooth, or else through the Arabic from a Low Latin word azuroticus used by a Gaulish writer
of the fifth century to describe mosaic[23] and not from the word azul or blue. At first each
different piece or colour in a geometric pattern was cut before firing to the shape required,
and the many different pieces when coloured and fired were put together so as to form a regular
mosaic. This method of making tiles, though soon given up in most places as being too troublesome,
is still employed at Tetuan in Morocco, where in caves near the town the whole process may
still be seen; for there the mixing of the clay, the cutting out of the small pieces, the colouring
and the firing are still carried on in the old primitive and traditional manner.[24]

Elsewhere, though similar designs long continued to be used in Spain and Portugal, and are
still used in Morocco, the tiles were all made square, each tile usually forming one quarter
of the pattern. In them the pattern was formed by lines slightly raised above the surface of
the tile so that there was no danger during the firing of the colour running beyond the place
it was intended to occupy.

For a long time, indeed right up to the end of the fifteenth century, scarcely anything but
Moorish geometric patterns seem to have been used. Then with the renaissance their place was
taken by other patterns of infinite variety; some have octagons with classic mouldings represented
in colour, surrounding radiating green and blue leaves;[25] some more strictly classical are
not unlike Italian patterns; some again are more naturalistic, while in others the pattern,
though not of the old geometric form, is still Moorish in design.

Together with the older tiles of Moorish pattern plain tiles were often made in which each
separate tile, usually square, but at times rhomboidal or oblong, was of one colour, and such
tiles were often used from quite early times down at least to the end of the seventeenth century.

More restricted in use were the beautiful embossed tiles found in the palace at Cintra, in
which each has on it a raised green vine-leaf and tendril, or more rarely a dark bunch of grapes.

Towards the middle of the sixteenth century the Moorish technique of tilemaking, with its patterns
marked off by raised edges, began to go out of fashion, and instead the patterns were outlined
in dark blue and painted on to flat tiles. About the same time large pictures painted on tiles
came into use, at first, as in the work of Francisco de Mattos, with scenes more or less in
their natural colours, and later in the second half of the seventeenth century, and in the
beginning of the eighteenth in blue on a white ground.

Towards the end of the eighteenth century blue seems to have usurped the place of all other
colours, and from that time, especially in or near Oporto, tiles were used to mask all the
exterior rubble walls of houses and churches, even spires or bulbous domes being sometimes
so covered.

Now in Oporto nearly all the houses are so covered, usually with blue-and-white tiles, though
on the more modern they may be embossed and pale green or yellow, sometimes even brown. But
all the tiles from the beginning of the nineteenth century to the present day are marked by
the poverty of the colour and of the pattern, and still more by the hard shiny glaze, which
may be technically more perfect, but is infinitely inferior in beauty to the duller and softer
glaze of the previous centuries.

When square tiles were used they were throughout singularly uniform in size, being a little
below or a little above five inches square. The ground is always white with a slightly blueish
tinge. In the earlier tiles of Arab pattern the colours are blue, green, and brown; very rarely,
and that in some of the oldest tiles, the pattern may be in black; yellow is scarcely ever
seen. In those of Moorish technique but Western pattern, the most usual colours are blue, green,
yellow and, more rarely, brown.

Later still in the flat tiles scarcely anything but blue and yellow are used, though the blue
and the yellow may be of two shades, light and dark, golden and orange. Brown and green have
almost disappeared, and, as was said above, so did yellow at last, leaving nothing but blue
and white.

Although there are few buildings which do not possess some tiles, the oldest, those of Moorish
design, are rare, and, the best collection is to be found in the old palace at Cintra, of which
the greater part was built by Dom João I. towards the end of the fourteenth and the beginning
of the fifteenth century.

Formerly all the piers of the old cathedral of Coimbra were covered with such tiles, but they
have lately been swept away, and only those left which line the aisle walls.

At Cintra there are a few which it is supposed may have belonged to the palace of the Walis,
or perhaps it would be safer to say to the palace before it was rebuilt by Dom João. These
are found round a door leading out of a small room, called from the mermaids on the ceiling
the Sala das Sereias. The pointed door is enclosed in a square frame by a band of narrow dark
and light tiles with white squares between, arranged in checks, while in the spandrels is a
very beautiful arabesque pattern in black on a white ground.

Of slightly later date are the azulejos of the so-called Sala dos Arabes, where the walls to
a height of about six feet are lined with blue, green, and white tiles, the green being square
and the other rhomboidal. Over the doors, which are pointed, a square framing is carried up,
with tiles of various patterns in the spandrels, and above these frames, as round the whole
walls, runs a very beautiful cresting two tiles high. On the lower row are interlacing semicircles
in high relief forming foliated cusps and painted blue. In the spandrels formed by the interlacing
of the semicircles are three green leaves growing out from a brown flower; in short the design
is exactly like a Gothic corbel table such as was used on Dom João's church at Batalha turned
upside down, and so probably dates from his time. On the second row of tiles there are alternately
a tall blue fleur-de-lys with a yellow centre, and a lower bunch of leaves, three blue at the
top and one yellow on each side; the ground throughout is white. (Fig. 8.)

Also of Dom João's time are the tiles in the Sala das Pegas, where they are of the regular
Moorish pattern--blue, green and brown on a white ground, and where four go to make up the
pattern. The cresting of green scrolls and vases is much later.

Judging from the cresting in the dining-room or Sala de Jantar, where, except that the ground
is brown relieved by large white stars, and that the cusps are green and not blue, the design
is exactly the same as in the Sala dos Arabes, the tiles there must be at least as old as these
crestings; for though older tiles might be given a more modern cresting, the reverse is hardly
likely to occur, and if as old as the crestings they may possibly belong to Dom João's time,
or at least to the middle of the fifteenth century. (Fig. 9.)

These dining-room tiles, and also those in the neighbouring Sala das Sereias, are among the
most beautiful in the palace. The ground is as usual white, and on each is embossed a beautiful
green vine-leaf with branches and tendril. Tiles similar, but with a bunch of grapes added,
line part of the stair in the picturesque little Pateo de Diana near at hand, and form the
top of the back of the tiled bench and throne in the Sala do Conselho, once an open veranda.
Most of this bench is covered with tiles of Moorish design, but on the front each is stamped
with an armillary sphere in which the axis is yellow, the lines of the equator and tropics
green, and the rest blue. These one would certainly take to be of Dom Manoel's time, for the
armillary sphere was his emblem, but they are said to be older.

Most of the floor tiles are of unglazed red, except some in the chapel, which are supposed
to have formed the paving of the original mosque, and some in an upper room, worn smooth by
the feet of Dom Affonso VI., who was imprisoned there for many a year in the seventeenth century.

When Dom Manoel was making his great addition to the palace in the early years of the sixteenth
century he lined the walls of the Sala dos Cysnes with tiles forming a check of green

and white. These are carried up over the doors and windows, and in places have a curious cresting
of green cones like Moorish battlements, and of castles.

Much older are the tiles in the central Pateo, also green and white, but forming a very curious
pattern.

Of later tiles the palace also has some good examples, such as the hunting scenes with which
the walls of the Sala dos Brazões were covered probably at the end of the seventeenth century,
during the reign of Dom Pedro II.

The palace at Cintra may possess the finest collection of tiles, Moorish both in technique
and in pattern, but it has few or none of the second class where the technique remains Moorish
but the design is Western. To see such tiles in their greatest quantity and variety one must
cross the Tagus and visit the Quinta de Bacalhôa not far from Setubal.

There a country house had been built in the last quarter of the fifteenth century by Dona Brites,
the mother of Dom Manoel.[26] The house, with melon-roofed corner turrets, simple square windows
and two loggias, has an almost classic appearance, and if built in its present shape in the
time of Dona Brites, must be one of the earliest examples of the renaissance in the country.
It has therefore been thought that Bacalhôa may be the mysterious palace built for Dom João
II. by Andrea da Sansovino, which is mentioned by Vasari, but of which all trace has been lost.
However, it seems more likely that it owes its classic windows to the younger Affonso de Albuquerque,
son of the great Indian Viceroy, who bought the property in 1528. The house occupies one corner
of a square garden enclosure, while opposite it is a large square tank with a long pavilion
at its southern side. A path runs along the southern wall of the garden leading from the house
to the tank, and all the way along this wall are tiled seats and tubs for orange-trees. It
is on these tubs and seats that the greatest variety of tiles are found.

It would be quite impossible to give any detailed description of these tiles, the patterns
are so numerous and so varied. In some the pattern is quite classical, in others it still shows
traces of Moorish influence, while in some again the design is entirely naturalistic. This
is especially the case in a pattern used in the lake pavilion, where eight large green leaves
are arranged pointing to one centre, and four smaller brown ones to another, and in a still
more beautiful pattern used on an orange tub in the garden, where yellow and dark flowers,
green and blue leaves are arranged in a circle round eight beautiful fruits shaped like golden
pomegranates with blue seeds set among green leaves and stalks.

