Of the genus Scirpus, the species S. grossus, known as "balangot" in Ambos Camarines and Capiz,
"bagaas" in Occidental Negros, "tiquio" in Rizal, and "bagui-bagui" in Capiz, and S. erectus,
are used for mats. S. grossus is not a very suitable material for industrial purposes, its
distinctly three-cornered stalk being too coarse in texture and too large to permit of weaving
even a fair grade article. S. erectus is much better. The stalk is about as fine as tikug and
grows to a height of 60 cm. The flowers sometimes occur in a solitary cluster, but more often
from 2 to 5 clusters of spikelets are found on the side of the stalk near its top. The plant
is widely distributed in the Philippines and inhabits open grass lands. It bears some flowers
throughout the year. As yet only coarse mats are made from it, but its general appearance would
warrant experiments along the lines of the processes by which tikug is treated. The only native
names noted are "tayoc-tayoc" and "tikug" by which names the plant is known in Occidental Negros.
These names, however, are more properly applied to other plants. Scirpus mucronatus is somewhat
like S. erectus in general appearance. The stem of S. mucronatus is more robust and coarser
in texture and attains a height of 80 cm. Its dried stem has an average width of 4 to 5 mm.,
while that of S. erectus measures from 2 to 3 mm. The flowers of S. mucronatus appear in a
very dense head on the side of the plant from 2 to 9 cm. from the top. Each head is made up
of from 5 to 20 spikelets. These spikelets are from 6 to 15 mm. long, while those of S. erectus
are never more than 1 cm. in length. The coarser stalk of S. mucronatus makes it a less desirable
mat material than S. erectus. In the Ilocos provinces a very coarse round sedge called tiker
(Scirpus lacustris) occurs. It may be of value if split and dried in the sun so that it curls
up into a round straw.

The genus Cyperus includes a number of economic plants, among them the Chinese matting sedge.
The species most used in the Philippines is C. malaccensis. This plant has an underground stem
which, as it continues its growth, sends out new stalks. The plant lives for a number of years
and when fully grown is from 0.5 to 1.5 meters high. The stem is stout and three-sided in shape.
It has few or no leaves, and when present the leaves are not more than 3 cm. long. From 2 to
5 leaf-like stems (bracts) not more than 20 cm. long occur under the inflorescence. The spikelets
which make up the inflorescence are somewhat crowded together; they are very narrow, from 1
to 2 cm. long. The plant occurs in the Philippines in brackish swamps and along tidal streams.
It is also found in tropical Africa, Asia, the islands of Polynesia, and Australia. It is usually
in flower from July to December. It was formerly made into mats and hats and is even now utilized
in rare instances in weaving them, but it is most important as a material for slippers, and
possibly for matting.

Of the 125 species of Fimbristylis found only in warm regions, two are of economic importance
in the Philippines, while one more might perhaps be tried out as a mat material. All the species
of Fimbristylis have tufted, fibrous or woody stems. The leaves occur near the base. The inflorescence
consists of a great number of flowers grouped closely together to form one or more spikelets.
The spikelets themselves may be either solitary or clustered. The individual flowers are covered
by glumes and are arranged spirally on the axis. As the fruit matures, the glumes of the flowers
become the "chaff" of the grain.

Tikug.

This sedge (Fimbristylis utilis) grows usually more than a meter long and has tufted stems
which are shiny and smooth in appearance and average about 4 mm. in diameter. The stems may
have long leaves at the base or may be entirely leafless, and are usually four- or five-sided
immediately under the inflorescence. The general appearance of the stalk is round. The plant
has few or no underground root-like stems. The flowers are densely clustered together to form
spikelets, dusky brown in color, measuring 6 mm. by 3 mm. In the Visayas it is generally known
as tikug. In Agusan and Surigao it is called "anahiwan" and in Bukidnon "sudsud". Sometimes
it is called tayoc-tayoc in confusion with the smaller sedge more properly known by that name,
which much resembles tikug. A specimen from Pampanga was labeled "muta".

Tikug grows in greatest profusion and reaches its highest economic importance in parts of Mindanao,
Bohol, Leyte, and Samar. To a less degree, it is found and utilized on Negros and Panay. While
it is found in Cebu, it is not used there. As a recognized industrial plant, therefore, its
distribution is confined to the Visayas and Mindanao. Its appearance in Pampanga would indicate
that it may be found in other regions in which its value in hand-weaving and in the making
of matting is not understood. [25]

Tikug is utilized in making hats, mats, matting, slippers and various minor articles.

Samar Mats.

Gathering the Straw.

The best known tikug mats are produced on the Island of Samar, where the sedge grows wild.
[26] It has never been cultivated there. Different grades are recognized in the height and
width of the straw. The finest is 1 1/2 mm. in diameter while the largest straws are fully
four times that width. Full grown stalks sometimes reach 3 meters in height, but the average
is 1 1/2 meters. In most places in Samar only very coarse tikug is found and this is especially
true in the northern half of the island. The best material grows near the towns of Basey and
Sulat, a circumstance probably due to the fact that most of these sedges are pulled up for
weaving before they become old and coarse, for it is in these two towns that the mat industry
of Samar is centered. All grades of tikug can be used in making mats; but as the straw cannot
be split into finer pieces, it is only from the narrower material that the fine mats are made.
The map on the distribution of tikug shows the regions in Samar in which this sedge occurs. [27]

Bleaching.

In some parts of Samar rough mats are made from tikug dried in the shade. In Basey and Sulat
bleached straw is used. In the bleaching process only the sun is used, the bundles being spread
out where there is neither grass nor shade. The straw must be kept perfectly dry at all times,
for if it becomes wet or damp it will mildew and turn an unsightly black or brown. In the morning
it must not be put out until the ground is dry and in the evening it should be taken in before
dew is formed upon it. The best results are obtained by drying the material in a place where
there is no grass, as the turf generally holds considerable moisture and retards the process.
With proper care clean white straw can be obtained in about one week under the most favorable
conditions. Sometimes, but not often, the above process is preceded by boiling the straw for
ten or twenty minutes in plain water. Several bleaching experiments have already been made
with tikug, but as yet none has been entirely successful. In one experiment straw was boiled
in alum, but the resultant material was not so white as that obtained by simply drying it in
the sun. Boiling green tikug in water containing acetic acid from the juice of limes and lemons
was unsatisfactory. The best straw obtained was that produced by simply boiling the green stalk
for a few minutes in water and rinsing it well and then drying in the sunshine for several days.

The straws are of different lengths and diameters; after bleaching they must be sorted. The
seed clusters are removed and the bunches are tied in a big bundle which is laid on the floor
with root toward the worker. The longer straws of small diameter are then pulled out and placed
in small bundles, the process continuing until the several different grades are thus separated
and nothing remains but a few short thick straws which are kept for embroidering designs. Each
bundle is then trimmed by cutting off the roots and ragged tops and the straw is ready for
storing, dyeing, or flattening. If tikug remains in a damp place it will mold and become worthless.
It is easily kept during the dry season, if frequently exposed to the sun. During the rainy
season it should be wrapped in a blanket or cloth.

Dyeing.

Very few uncolored straws are used in Samar mats. The dyed material is more durable and does
not mildew as readily as the uncolored straws. Tikug dyes easily and this is probably one of
the reasons why the mats of Samar have so much color. The cost of the dye in a Basey mat is
no small part of the total expense of production. Consequently it is necessary to employ a
cheap dye. For instance, one of the best commercial dyes known in Manila was used with great
success on Samar mats, but the value of the coloring material consumed in making them was greater
than their selling price. The dye used in making the cheapest of Samar mats costs the weavers
about 10 centavos while the more elaborate products need as much as 65 centavos worth of dye
to color them. A common mat containing 15 centavos worth of dyestuff sells for about a peso. [28]

The colors obtained by the Basey mat weavers have a greater variety of shades and tints than
those produced by any other workers in the Philippines on tikug or any other mat material.
The shades and tints depend upon two considerations: (1) The amount of dyestuffs used and (2)
the length of time the boiling process is continued. Four dyestuffs are used. Yellows are obtained
from turmeric; greens and reds are obtained from coal-tar dyes; and a red-orange from deora.
The leaves of the latter plant are crushed and the pulpy mass thus obtained is boiled to yield
the dye fluid. By combining these four dye materials in different proportions, by using varying
amounts of the material, and by boiling varying lengths of time, different colors, shades and
tints are obtained.

The method of dyeing is as follows: The bunches of tikug are coiled and placed in a can of
hot dye, where they are boiled from two to ten minutes, or until the desired intensity has
been secured. The more the straw is boiled, the more nearly permanent will be the color and
the greater will be its intensity. Care must be taken to see that the dye fluid is not too
strong; otherwise the color will be too intense. In order that the material may be evenly colored,
the tikug is submerged in the dye so that it is well covered and is turned over several times
during the process. After the coils are removed they should be laid upon the ground or floor,
allowed to cool, and then hung in the shade to dry.

Flattening.

The straws composing the bleached or dyed bundles of material are stiff and uneven; some are
bent and others are round. The process of flattening them and making them more pliable is carried
on during damp days, in the morning or evening, for if done in the open air on cloudless days,
or at any time when the atmosphere is dry, the straw becomes brittle and breaks. However, climatic
conditions may be overcome by wrapping the straw in banana leaves or damp cloth for an hour
or more and then working it where no breeze can dry it out. No water should be applied. The
workers employ the usual blunt-edged, ruler-like piece of wood; between this and the thumb
the straw is drawn by the free hand. This process flattens the straw and makes it pliable so
that it does not split during weaving.

The Weaving of Samar Mats.

Up to three years ago tikug was but little used in Samar except for weaving mats. Commercially,
mat weaving was confined to Sulat and Basey. Since the American occupation it has been widely
done and the work has been introduced into most of the schools. Not only have methods been
greatly improved but new uses have been found for the material. To-day the sedge is woven into
floor and wall mats, hats, table mats, slippers, book-bags, hand-bags, necktie cases, pencil
holders, pencil cases, and pillow and cushion covers. Recently the weaving of matting on looms
has been undertaken in the schools and a fine product, similar to the matting of Japan, has
been produced on the ordinary loom adjusted to the straw.

The chief use of tikug in Samar is in the weaving of mats in the towns of Basey and Sulat.
Since time immemorial tikug mats have been woven in Samar. At Palapag, Oras, Dolores, Taft,
Balangiga, Santa Rita, Gandara, Oquendo, and Catarman, a few rough ones, the product of unskilled
workmen, were made, but they were of no commercial importance, since the people did not weave
enough to supply their own demand. As far back as can now be traced, the people of Basey and
Sulat have been making mats for the provincial and interprovincial trade. Since 1907 the people
of Dolores, Oras, Santa Rita, and Balangiga have improved in weaving and are now producing
a few mats for the market. Their work is much inferior to that of Basey and Sulat. In the year
1911 Basey produced about 9,000 mats and Sulat about 300. The latter town could have increased
its production greatly, but its remoteness from the market and from the routes of commerce
reduces the large demand which might otherwise exist for the mats. Basey is better situated
in these respects; moreover, the people have been forced to fall back on mat weaving as their
chief means of support, for typhoons have destroyed their coconuts and abaca, and their rice
crop is scant. Almost every night mat weavers are found at work in many of the houses.

Several years ago, when American soldiers were stationed in the vicinity of the town, there
grew up a great demand for mats, and the weavers, taking advantage of their need and their
little knowledge of values in the Philippines, demanded exorbitant prices and received them.
Most of the Basey people spent their time producing mats, and to a great extent sacrificed
quality for quantity. The grade of mat that sold for P18 several years ago can now be bought
for about P8; that which sold for P3 two years ago can be bought to-day for P2. Lately there
has been a rise in price owing to increased commercial demand. Mats made to order, particularly
special mats, cost more than those bought already woven, the price depending upon the size
of the article, the character of the design, and the fineness of the straw and the weave. A
mat two meters by one meter, made of the finest grade of tikug, would require several months
for completion and would probably cost between P30 and P40. There is hardly a limit to the
size of the mat which can be woven. Three years ago one having dimensions of 10 meters by 12
meters was made for a church, as many as 30 women working on it at the same time.

Basey mats are of two general kinds: those with plaid designs woven in and those on which the
designs are embroidered. The former are the more difficult to weave; but as there is no decoration
to be added, they are the cheapest mats obtainable, the prices for the ordinary grades ranging
from P0.80 to P3 each. Some weavers turn out only blank mats of one color and do neither designing
nor decorating. Straw used on these is usually dyed, very few mats of natural colors being
made. They are worth from P0.50 to P2 each and are generally sold to girls who are skillful
in embroidering designs. These girls decorate the mats and sell them for from P2.50 to P6 each,
the price depending upon the original cost of the mat and the amount of decoration put upon
it. The ideas for the designs on Basey mats are usually obtained from pictures or textiles.
The straws, both bleached and dyed, are split in two for embroidering purposes. This makes
them thinner and more pliable.

The time necessary for making a plaid mat sold for two pesos was found to be as follows, an
eight-hour day being used as the basis of a day's work:

                                                       Days.
        Gathering tikug                                1.00
        Dyeing tikug                                    .25
        Flattening tikug                                .25
        Weaving mat                                    3.50
                                                       ----
        Total time                                     5.00

The selling price of the mat was one peso, the cost of the dye 15 centavos, which left the
weaver a balance of 85 centavos for five days' labor. The plaids used in Basey mats are simple,
but the embroidered designs are extremely intricate. They consist for the most part of foliage,
flowers, and animals. Weavers are often given a contract to make a stated number of mats in
accordance with a design furnished them. A few are capable of reproducing almost any pattern
presented, [29] but if they are not told exactly what colors to use they employ every shade,
color and tint they can secure. The Basey mats are distinguished by the multitude of colors
used. In general it may be stated that the chief criticism of this product is the gaudy effect
produced by the colors used. In some cases the colors are well toned and harmoniously combined,
but the majority of the mats produced contain vivid colors which are not all harmonious. Through
the schools, efforts have been made to reduce the number of colors and to modify the gaudy
and complicated floral designs. An improvement is seen each year.

The ordinary mat is usually about 2 meters by 1 1/2 meters, though smaller and larger ones
are made. During the past three years the weavers have been encouraged to make mats about the
size of an ordinary cot and to use no more than two colors in weaving them. A few mats suitable
for placing under dining tables are also made.

Sulat weavers produce fewer mats than those of Basey but make them of fine, closely woven straw.
Most of the mats with a woven-on border come from Sulat. These people, while able to produce
a fine, soft, pliable mat, can not embroider decorations on them nearly so well as do the people
of Basey.

Samar mats wear well. Wall mats last indefinitely and sleeping mats are used from two to ten
years or more. [30]

The Marketing of Basey Mats.

The port of Tacloban, Leyte, due to its proximity to Basey, is the chief center for the distribution
of Samar mats. As soon as the mats are completed the weavers take them across the straits to
Tacloban, where they are sold to Chinese brokers, transients and residents, both American and
native. Few ships leave Tacloban that do not carry away from 5 to 20 mats; often they take
away as many as 50, the amount generally depending upon the number of passengers aboard the
boat. Some of the ship's employees are regular customers of the weavers and buy mats at stated
prices to sell them again at a reasonable profit at Manila and other ports of call. Besides,
there is quite a sale of mats in the towns of Samar, Leyte, and Cebu through vendors, residents
of Basey, who secure the mats in their home town at low prices and sell them at a profit. These
persons usually deal only in the mats, and sell them for cash, not trading for other articles.
Plaid Basey mats are on sale in nearly all the Chinese general merchandise stores of Manila.

As yet there is little supervision by brokers in Basey. The mat industry there needs but the
introduction of some system of supervision by brokers to regulate the size, quality, design
and color scheme of the mats, and a foreign market to become a much more extended industry.
The schools have already done much toward improving workmanship and design; it must remain
for individual enterprise, however, to get in touch with foreign demand and supervise the weaving
of mats to suit it. [31]

Bohol Mats. [32]

Tikug mats are made in large numbers in Bohol. The straw for the most part is finer than that
used in Samar and the patterns are chiefly stripes and checks. Very little embroidering is
attempted.

Bohol mats are used principally for sleeping purposes. In northern Bohol there is scarcely
a family that has not three or more large mats, which are rolled up and laid away during the
day time and are unrolled upon the floor at night for a bed. They are durable and last for
years. Large sleeping mats may be purchased in quantities as high as 40 to 100 during the Sunday
market day in Talibon or on the Saturday market day in Ypil, a barrio of the same town. In
price they range from one to three pesos each.

The second use of Bohol mats is for decorating walls, tables, and floors. Those so employed
are smaller than the sleeping mats, usually square, but sometimes round. More care is exercised
in their weaving and only fine young straws are used. The preparation of the straw and the
dyeing are done with great care. Mats of the best quality are quite difficult to secure and
the schools have recently been encouraging their production.

As in other regions, the tikug from which Bohol mats are made, grows wild in the rice fields
after the harvest. It is found in abundance in northern Bohol in the municipalities of Getafe,
Talibon and Ubay, and sparingly in other towns of the island (see map). The straws are gathered
from the field by pulling them, thus breaking them off at the roots, and they are tied into
bundles about 3 decimeters in circumference and sold in the market. The largest market for
such bundles is found in the barrio of Ypil in the municipality of Talibon. The price is usually
about 10 centavos per bundle. From two to four of these bundles are required to make a mat.

The tikug is not kept in the original bundles longer than one or two days, for it will turn
black. The material is usually separated into two parts, one to be dyed, the other to be bleached.
That to be dyed is spread in the sun and thoroughly dried for one or two days, care being taken
that rain does not fall upon it and blacken it. The other part is boiled in a solution of acetic
acid for twenty minutes, after which it is thoroughly dried in the sun and thus bleached.

The natural dyes used in Bohol for coloring tikug are dauda and turmeric. The former produces
permanent colors, the latter fugitive ones. The artificial dyes bought at Chinese stores are
also used in producing shades and tints of green, violet and ruby which are satisfactory. In
general, those in crystal form have proven more satisfactory than the powder dyes. Before dyeing,
the sheath-like leaf is pulled from the bottom of each straw and the material is looped into
small bundles. Often the straws are dampened with water. Dyeing is usually done in a 5-gallon
petroleum can two-thirds full of water, heated to boiling. If the artificial dyes are used
the powder is stirred in and dissolved and the bundles of tikug are then pressed down into
the liquid so that all the material is well covered. A stone is often laid upon the straws
so as to keep them down in the boiling dye. It usually requires about twenty minutes to obtain
the desired shade, which is nearly always a deep one. Where fresh dauda leaves are employed,
about 2 pounds are placed in the water and boiled a few minutes before the tikug is put in.
If dried leaves are used about one pound is soaked in cold water for a few minutes and the
whole mass is then added to the boiling water. Turmeric roots are pounded in a mortar and then
added to the boiling water, after which the tikug is added. All the dyes noted are combined
to produce other colors and varying shades.

During the process of dyeing, the straw should be turned and moved about in the boiling water
to insure an even color. The straw should never be boiled too long, or it will be cooked and
become tender and weak. After the straw has taken on the shade desired, it is removed from
the can and thrown on the ground. When the bundles are cool enough to be handled, they are
untied and the straws spread out to dry, preferably in the shade. After it is thoroughly dried
the material is rebundled and thus kept for weaving.

Before weaving, the straws are flattened by drawing each one separately between the edge of
the knife and the heel of the weaver's foot or the sole of the chinela. Damp days are best
for this process. Weaving is done under the house or under trees. Evenings and nights are most
suitable for this work on account of the dampness of the atmosphere. The embroidered mats of
Bohol are decorated with split straws.

The mats of Bohol are bought by traders who exchange cloth and other goods for them. These
men carry them to the towns of Bohol which do not produce mats, and to other islands, where
they sell or exchange them at a good profit. When once the supply of mats on hand has been
bought up in a mat producing town, several months elapse before the market there is replenished
by a new supply. After completing a mat, the weaver has no immediate desire to begin another.
It is quite probable that the output of mats could be increased considerably if the market
and the price were better. It is estimated that the weavers earn not more than 20 centavos
per day at the industry.

Other Tikug Mats.

Tikug also grows in large quantities in Leyte. Its chief use there is in the weaving of matting
on a crude loom, an adaptation of the common textile loom.

Tikug is apparently generally used throughout Surigao in making mats. The best mats of this
region come from the upper Agusan and the island of Dinagat. They are usually made for local
consumption, though the people of Dinagat exchange their mats with Bohol traders. The sedge
grows in great abundance in the lake of Talacogon near the town of the same name in Agusan.

Tikug is also found in many parts of the Moro Province. It abounds in the swamp lands of the
Lanao region, from which mats are exported via Iligan. If it is to be colored, the straws are
soaked in water for about two days, after which they are cooked in the boiling dye. Bleached
straw is prepared by exposing it to the sun, after which the material is polished and flattened
at the same time by rubbing the stalks with ashes, between the fingers.

The Cultivation of Tikug.

The question of the cultivation of tikug is one of considerable importance. It is a well known
fact that the finest Leghorn hat straw is produced in Italy by sewing wheat closely and reaping
the straw before the grain ripens. The best mat straws of China and Japan are produced from
cultivated sedges. The Bureau of Education is therefore encouraging experiments in the cultivation
of tikug, but as yet these have not been extensive enough to determine whether the sedge can
be propagated for industrial purposes. There are no data as to cost. A quantity of seed was
procured and forwarded to various parts of the Islands in which tikug had not been reported
as growing. These were sent out to various persons with the idea of determining (1) soils suitable
to the plant, (2) whether it could be cultivated in the rice paddies between harvest and planting,
(3) how closely the seeds should be planted, (4) how old the plants should be at harvest. [33]
No results have as yet been obtained from the seeds so sent out. Fair results, however, have
been realized in Samar, where approximately 5,000 stalks were grown to the square foot in very
rich soil fertilized with manure secured from the military stables. The straws obtained were
3 meters long. It was found that the thicker the seeds are planted the finer and longer are
the straws obtained.

Reports differ as to whether tikug should be considered a pest or not. In Leyte it is stated
that it grows in the rice fields along with the rice crop and appreciably diminishes the crop.
There it is a weed pest; in Samar it is not so considered. In Bohol one teacher states that
the plant is not a pest as it will not grow in dry localities, and hence does not interfere
with crops. Where it is found in the rice paddies, a covering of earth will easily destroy
it. It does not scatter quickly, for, while the roots will grow if transplanted, the sedge
is mostly propagated by seeds and these are distributed principally by water and not by wind.
No great chances are taken in planting tikug. On the other hand, some teachers state that the
seeds are scattered by the wind and that the roots impede the plowing of the fields.

It is probable that where the tikug obtains a good foothold on irrigated rice land it proves
a considerable annoyance to farmers; but its growth as a pest can be regulated by plowing.

Tayoc-Tayoc.

This plant, F. diphylla, one of the most widely distributed of all sedges, is found at all
altitudes up to 2,000 meters throughout the warm regions of the world. The stems may be smooth
or hairy and the leaves one-third to two-thirds as long as the stem. F. diphylla is generally
smaller than F. utilis. Its stem is only 2 mm. in diameter. The flowers, densely clustered
into spikelets, are generally of two colors--straw and brown. They reach 1 cm. in length and
4 mm. in diameter. Below the spikelet the stem has from 3 to 5 sides. The roots are fibrous;
underground stems may occur, but they are never more than 2.5 cm. long.

This plant is known as tayoc-tayoc in Iloilo, Capiz, and Occidental Negros. It is reported
from Pampanga and is called "tab-tabin" in Zambales.

The straw produced by tayoc-tayoc is much finer but considerably stiffer than that from tikug,
and cannot be considered so good an industrial material. Nevertheless, it is used to some extent
in the production of hats and mats, especially in the provinces of Iloilo and Capiz. In Dumalag,
Capiz Province, hats are of considerable importance. Mats of tayoc-tayoc are reported as made
in Banate and Janiuay, Iloilo Province, but this has not yet been verified.

As with tikug, seeds of tayoc-tayoc were obtained and distributed among various provinces to
determine whether the propagation of the straw was practicable and if the cultivation of the
plant would result in a better material. As yet no definite results have been obtained.

A Rush Straw.

But one rush straw has been brought to the attention of the Bureau of Education; it is the
Japanese matting rush, Juncus effusus. This species is distributed over a large part of the
globe, being the candle rush of Europe and the common plant of wet ground in the United States.
In Japan it is made into beautiful mattings, the handsomest and most costly produced. The pith
is also employed for lamp wicks, and probably the "timsim" imported from China and used in
oil lamps in the Philippines is obtained from this plant. Juncus effusus has no native name
in the Philippines. It is found throughout the Mountain Province and in the Apo region of Mindanao.
It attains a height of almost 2 meters where soil and moisture conditions are favorable. The
stalk is cylindrical and at the end tapers to a point. It is from 2 to 3 mm. in diameter. The
flowers grow in a bunch on the side of the stalk near the top and are light brown in color.
At the present time this rush is not utilized in the Philippines, though it is probable that
it can be used in the weaving of many articles. If split, a flat straw is obtained by removing
the pith.

EMBROIDERED MAT DESIGNS. [34]

It is better not to decorate a mat at all than to have the design ill fitting. Design is the
pleasing arrangement of all spaces unfilled as well as filled. Decoration is for beauty wholly.
If all the spaces are not well arranged, the design is not beautiful. If the design is startling
or gaudy in color, it is not beautiful. If the arrangement of colors is inharmonious, the design
is not beautiful. All mats cannot be in the same proportion and suitable for all designs. Plate
LXV, for instance, shows a long design; it requires a long mat, and would not look well on
a square one.

All mats here considered are about 1/8 inch to 1/4 inch in width of straw. Some of the designs
are used exactly as they are, counting a straw for a square which represents a straw in the
design; the others are double in size and contain four times as many squares in the weave as
in the design. In such cases twice the count of the design will always give the right number
for the weave.

In circular mats the directions are given in inches. The sizes of the mats should be taken
into consideration, but a variance of a few inches will not matter if that variance always
makes the mat larger rather than smaller. In these mats more is left to the judgment of the
weaver than in rectangular mats. Designs should never be crowded on circular mats. Repeated
groups should always be made exactly alike.

In the color notes, a series of colors set off by commas indicates that each series may be
used alone for the whole design. Often the deep colors, especially No. 1, have been left out,
as the effect of a very dark color on a very light mat is often startling. Designs on mats
or hangings should not be more conspicuous than the mat itself, but should rather present a
complete and harmonious appearance when both mat and design are considered as a whole.

Circular Mats.

Design A.

The straws of a circular mat cannot be counted and then divided equally by numbers, as straws
are continually added at irregular intervals as the circumference is being reached. Hence,
the only way to place designs on a mat of this kind is by dividing the whole mat with a diameter
through its center.

Fold the mat and make a crease at the edges or mark a diameter through it with a pencil; at
right angles to this diameter draw another through the same center, and the mat will now be
divided into equal quadrants. The quadrants may again be divided and subdivided, and marked
by pencil or with strings.

In Design A the mat is about 57 inches in diameter. In a mat of this size there would be 48
units in the circle with a margin of 1-1/2 inches from the outer edge of the outer border line
to the circumference of the mat. Divide the mat into halves, quarters, eighths, and sixteenths,
and measure with strings. Each sixteenth contains three units. Divide this space into three
equal parts.

Now embroider in each third one exact unit. In weaving in the unit, always commence on its
outer edge; then if any slight variation of space has occurred, the irregularity will not be
noticeable, as it will be in the line work of the unit, and not in its solid part. Each unit
made in working as suggested from the outer edge inward will begin the other half of a solid
figure already commenced. Notice the part of the design which has been marked off as one unit,
and adhere to that arrangement.

This design may be placed on a mat 57 inches in diameter, or 114 inches in diameter making
each figure with twice as many straws as in the first.

In ticug mats of natural straw, this design may be done in the following colors:

No. 2, 3, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15, or 16. (12 and 16 should not be used on sabutan.)

No. 14, with a solid diamond and outer border line in No. 3.

No. 3, 6, 9, or 10, with outer border line extending to edge of mat.

Design B.

In Design B, the mat should be 56 inches in diameter. In each sixteenth of the mat, as in Design
A, three units can be spaced. Note the unit marked off in the design and use only this unit;
weave its two outer solid parts first, with the irregularities of space occurring in the open
part of the unit. [35]

Mats woven for this design should be 56 or 112 inches in diameter. In mats of the latter size
the numbers of straws are all doubled.

In mats of natural straw, the following colors may be used:

No. 2, 3, 6, 10, 15, or 16. (16 should not be used on sabutan.)

Circular Fish Design.

This design calls for the division of a circular mat into sixths or twelfths, according to
the size of the mat. The diameters of mats for this design may be, 244 (about 4 feet); 304
(5 feet); 335 (6 feet); and 366 straws (7 feet). To divide a circle into sixths, mark off the
circumference into distances equal to 1/2 of the diameter.

In a mat of 244 straws diameter, make the outside border line one inch from the edges of the
mat. About 9 inches inside of the outer border line, weave another border line one-half inch
wide. Midway between these two border lines, measure and mark the space for the center fish,
making it 30 counts long, 20 on the left and 10 on the right of the dividing line.

Measure spaces on the other five dividing lines to locate the central fish of each group. After
weaving these central fish, go back to the first group, estimate and mark the place for the
upper fish and the lower fish, and weave them, making each of the same size and proportion
as the central fish, as shown in the design.

In mat 304, as noted above, the border lines and all the fish are the same size as in mat 244.

In mat 335 all measurements are the same as in the above mats, except that the circle is divided
into twelfths instead of sixths, making twice as many groups of fish.

In mat 366 the outer border line is 2 inches from the edge of the mat instead of 1 inch and
is 1 1/2 inches thick. The other measurements are the same as in mat 335. (12 should not be
used on sabutan.)

Gecko Design. Weave a border band on the edge of the mat 3/4 inch wide. This band is not in
the design but will come outside, and reach to the circumference line in the design. Down one
of the twelve dividing lines, inside the border band, measure off 3 1/2 inches and weave a
gecko, half on one side and half on the other side of the line, extending the tail about 5
1/2 inches toward the center of the mat. Weave the two on each side of this gecko, and the
four above it. Now space and weave the other five groups. Each group contains seven figures.

The only difference in the larger mats will be in the spacing between the tails. The groups
should be spaced the same as before.

In ticug mats of natural straw, the following colors may be used:

No. 1 with band of No. 3.

No. 1 with band of No. 9.

No. 12 with band of No. 15. (No. 3 should not be used on sabutan.)

No. (singly) 2, 3, 6, 9, 10, or 15.

Geometric Design F.

The distance from A (the corner of the mat) to B is 12 straws; from B to C is 2; from C to
D is 18; from D to E is 29; from D to H is 16; from H to I is 32; from E to F is 19; and from
F to G is 5.

Count from A to B. Weave from B to C and on around the entire mat.

Count from C to D and weave corner D H J E L. Weave all of the four corner designs exactly
like D H J E L. Count from E to F and weave the two inner border lines around the entire mat.

Now count from H to I and mark similar points across one side. Weave from H to I. Weave from
I to the next point (32 counts distant) the exact design between H and I. Weave at each point
marked. Complete all four sides in a similar manner.

Mats woven for this design should be made in the following sizes:

