The only writer, as far as I am aware, who advocates the opposite view is Lord Campbell, who,
after quoting the speech of Lord Camden, from which extracts have been made, comments on it,
and on the whole transaction, in the following terms: "From the course then adopted and carried
through, I presume it is now to be considered part of our constitution that if ever, during
the natural life of the sovereign, he is unable by mental disease personally to exercise the
royal functions, the deficiency is to be supplied by the two Houses of Parliament, who, in
their discretion, will probably elect the heir-apparent Regent, under such restrictions as
they may please to propose, but who may prefer the head of the ruling faction, and at once
vest in him all the prerogatives of the crown. On the two occasions referred to in the reign
of George III., the next heir being at enmity with the King and his ministers, this was considered
the loyal and courtly doctrine; and, from its apparent advancement of the rights of Parliament,
there was no difficulty in casting odium on those who opposed it. But I must avow that my deliberate
opinion coincides with that of Burke, Fox, and Erskine, who pronounced it to be unsupported
by any precedent, and to be in accordance with the principles of the Polish, not the English,
monarchy. The two Houses of Parliament would be the proper tribunal to pronounce that the sovereign
is unable to act; but then, as if he were naturally as well as civilly dead, the next heir
ought of right to assume the government as Regent, ever ready to lay it down on the sovereign's
restoration to reason, in the same way as our Lady Victoria would have returned to a private
station if, after her accession, there had appeared posthumous issue of William IV. by his
queen. It is easy to point out possible abuses by the next heir as Regent, to the prejudice
of the living sovereign; but there may be greater abuses of the power of election imputed to
the two Houses, whereby a change of dynasty might be effected. I conceive, therefore, that
the Irish Parliament[121] in 1789 acted more constitutionally in acknowledging the right of
the next heir, in scouting the fiction of a commission or royal assent from the insane sovereign,
and in addressing the Prince of Wales to take on himself the government as Regent."

Though the sneers at the possibility of Parliament preferring "the head of the ruling faction"
to the heir-apparent be hardly consistent with the impartial candor which is one of the most
imperative duties of an historical critic, and though the allusion to the principles of the
Polish monarchy be not very intelligible, yet no one will refuse to attach due weight to the
deliberate opinion of one who won for himself so high a professional reputation as Lord Campbell.
But, with all respect to his legal rank, we may venture to doubt whether he has not laid down
as law, speaking as a literary man and an historian, a doctrine which he would not have entertained
as a judge. For, if we consider the common law of the kingdom, it is certain that, in the case
of subjects, if a man becomes deranged, his next heir does not at once enter on his property
"as if he were naturally as well as civilly dead." And if, as in such cases is notoriously
the practice, the Court of Chancery appoints a guardian of the lunatic's property, analogy
would seem to require that the Houses of Parliament, as the only body which can possibly claim
authority in such a matter, should exercise a similar power in providing for the proper management
of the government to that which the law court would exercise in providing for the proper management
of an estate; and that, therefore, the principles of constitutional[122] statesmanship, which
is deeply interested in upholding the predominant authority of Parliament, must justify the
assertion of the ministers that the two Houses had the entire and sole right to make regulations
for the government of the kingdom during the incapacity of the sovereign; and that the next
heir, even when a son of full age, can have no more right to succeed to his father's royal
authority in his lifetime than, if that father were a subject, he would have to succeed to
his estate.

The opposite doctrine would seem to impugn the legality of the whole series of transactions
which placed William and Mary on the throne. The admission of an indefeasible right of the
heir-apparent would have borne a perilous resemblance to a recognition of that divine right,
every pretension to which the Revolution of 1688 had extinguished. If, again, as Fox and his
followers at one time endeavored to argue, the Houses in 1789 had no right to the name or power
of a Parliament, because the King had no part in their meetings, the convention that sat a
century before (as, indeed, was admitted) was certainly far less entitled to that name or power,
for it had not only never been called into existence by a King, but was assembled in direct
defiance of the King. Similarly, it is admitted that the body which invited Charles II. to
return and resume his authority was equally destitute of the validity which could only be given
by a royal summons. Yet both these bodies had performed actions of greater importance than
that which was looked for from this Parliament. The one had abolished the existing and usurping
government, and restored to his kingdom a King who had been long an exile. The other had, as
it were, passed sentence on the existing sovereign, on grounds which confessedly will not bear
a strict examination, and had conferred the crown on a prince who had no hereditary claim to
the title. The justification of both acts was necessity. Salus regni suprema Lex. And the necessity
was clearly more urgent in the present case than in either of the preceding instances. For,
unless the Parliament interfered to create an authority, there was absolutely none in existence
which was capable of acting. It should also be remembered that this Parliament of 1789, though
not opened for the session by the King, had been originally elected in obedience to his order,
and had been prorogued by his proclamation to the day of meeting;[123] and, though the opening
of a session by a speech from the throne is the usual form for the commencement of its proceedings,
it may be doubted whether it be so indispensable a part of them that none of their acts are
valid without it.

The breaking out of the French Revolution, and the degree in which, in spite of all its atrocities
and horrors, the revolutionary spirit for a time infected a large party in England, prevented
Pitt from reviving the plan of Reform which he had framed with such care and genius for organization,
and in which, though defeated in Parliament, both before and after he became minister, he had
hitherto continued to cherish the hope of eventually succeeding. But when clubs and societies,
where the most revolutionary and seditious doctrines were openly broached, were springing up
in London and other large towns, and unscrupulous demagogues by speeches and pamphlets were
busily disseminating theories which tended to the subversion of all legitimate authority, he
not unnaturally thought it no longer seasonable to invite a discussion of schemes which would
be supported in many quarters only, to quote his own words, "as a stepping-stone to ulterior
objects, which they dared not avow till their power of carrying them into effect should be
by this first acquisition secured." But the alarm which the spread of revolutionary ideas excited
in his mind was displayed, not only passively in this abstention from the advocacy of measures
the expediency of which must at all times in some degree depend on the tone of their introduction,
but also in active measures of repression, some of which were not, indeed, unwarranted by precedent,
but others of which can hardly be denied to have been serious inroads on the constitution,
infringements of the freedom of opinion and discussion to which all Englishmen are entitled,
and one of which was, to say the least, a very perilous extension of a law already sufficiently
severe, the statute of treason. If the French had been content with the overthrow of their
own government and institutions, much as we should have lamented the indiscriminate rashness
and abhorred the atrocities with which their design was carried out, we should still have adhered
to the unquestionable maxim, that no nation is justified in interfering in the internal affairs
of another. But the Jacobin and Girondin demagogues, who had now the undisputed sway in Paris,
did not limit their views to their own country, but openly declared themselves the enemies
of all established governments in every country; and the Convention passed a formal resolution
in which they proffered "fraternity and assistance" to every people which might be inclined
to rise against their governments. Their resolutions were officially communicated to the sympathizing
societies in England, and emissaries were secretly encouraged to cross the Channel in the hope
of gaining converts. Nor were their exertions barren. Two men were convicted in Scotland of
a plot to seize Edinburgh Castle, to massacre the garrison, to imprison the judges, and to
rise in arms to compel the government to a change of policy. In London the King was fired at
on his way to open Parliament, and on his return his carriage was attacked by a furious mob,
and was only protected from serious injury by a troop of the Life Guards. Such outrages proved
the existence of a new danger, against which no previous government had ever been called on
to provide, and such as, in the opinion of the cabinet, could only be met by novel measures
of precaution.

The first was directed against the foreign propagators of revolution. The resolutions of the
Convention had been promulgated in November, 1792; and at the meeting of Parliament in December,
Lord Grenville, as Foreign Secretary of State, introduced in the House of Lords an alien bill,
to enable the government to deal in a summary manner with any foreign visitors whose conduct
or character might seem to call for its interference. It provided that all foreigners who had
arrived in the kingdom since the preceding January should give in a statement of their names
and residences; that any one who should arrive in future should furnish an account of his name,
his station in life, and his object in visiting England; that the King, by proclamation, order
in Council, or sign-manual, might direct all foreigners to reside in such districts as might
be thought suitable; that no one might quit the residence in which he first settled without
a passport; and that the Secretary of State might order any suspected foreigner to quit the
kingdom instantly.

The act was to be in operation for twelve months, and Lord Grenville, in introducing it, though
he admitted it to be a measure of "rather a novel nature," explained at the same time that
it was so far from being new in the powers which it gave, that Magna Charta distinctly recognized
"the power and right of the crown to prevent foreigners from entering or residing within the
realm." All that was really new was the defining of the manner in which that power should be
exercised, since it had been so rarely needed that doubts might exist as to the proper mode
of putting it in action. The bill, which was adopted in both Houses by large majorities, is
remarkable, among other circumstances, from the fact that its discussion furnished the first
instance of a public display of the difference between the two sections of the Opposition,
subsequently described by Burke in one of his most celebrated pamphlets as the Old and New
Whigs; those whom he called the Old Whigs (the Duke of Portland, Sir Gilbert Elliott, Mr. Windham,
not to mention Burke himself) earnestly supporting it, while Lord Lansdowne, Mr. Fox, Mr. Sheridan,
and Mr. Grey resisted it with equal zeal. Lord Lansdowne took the ground that it was a suspension
of the Habeas Corpus Act; while Fox and Grey denounced it, in more general terms, as a measure
"utterly irreconcilable with the principles of the constitution," Mr. Grey apparently referring
chiefly to the power given by the bill to the Secretary of State to send any foreigners from
the country, which he described as "making the bill a measure of oppression, giving power for
the exercise of which no man was responsible." Sir Gilbert Elliott's answer was singularly
ingenious. He did not deny that the bill conferred additional power on the crown, though not
more than was justified by existing circumstances; but he maintained that the right of giving
extraordinary powers to the crown on occasions was so far from being inconsistent with the
principles of the constitution, that to grant extraordinary powers in extraordinary emergencies
was a part of it essential to the character of a free government. If such powers were at all
times possessed by the crown, its authority would be too great for a free government to co-exist
with it; but if such could not be at times conferred on the crown, its authority would be too
small for its own safety or that of the people.

The arguments of the ministers were, no doubt, greatly recommended, both to the Parliament
and the people in general, by the notoriety of the fact that foreign agents were in many of
our large towns busily, and not unsuccessfully, engaged in propagating what were known as Jacobin
doctrines. But, even without that aid, it was clear that every government must, for the common
good of all, be at times of extraordinary emergency invested with the power of suspending laws
made for ordinary circumstances. And what would be an intolerable evil, if the supreme magistrate
took upon himself to exercise it, ceases to be one when the right to exercise it is conferred
by the nation itself in Parliament. If the bill did, as was argued, suspend the Habeas Corpus
Act, that statute had been enacted by Parliament, and therefore for Parliament, in a case of
necessity, to suspend its operation was clearly within the spirit of the constitution.

The bills affecting our own fellow-subjects were still more warmly contested. One was known
as the Traitorous Correspondence Bill, which, according to Lord Campbell, was suggested by
Lord Loughborough, who had lately become Lord Chancellor. The old law of high-treason, enacted
in the reign of Edward III., had been in effect greatly mitigated by later statutes, which
had made acts to which that character was imputed more difficult of proof, by a stricter definition
of what was admissible evidence, and other safeguards; and the practice of the courts had by
degrees practically reduced the list of treasons enumerated in the old law, indictments for
many of the offences contained in it forbearing to assert that the persons accused had incurred
the penalty of high-treason. But this new bill greatly enlarged the catalogue. It made it high-treason
to hold any correspondence with the French, or to enter into any agreement to supply them with
commodities of any kind, even such as were not munitions of war, but articles of ordinary merchandise,
or to invest any money in the French Funds; and it enacted farther that any person who, by
"any writing, preaching, or malicious and advised speaking," should encourage such designs
as the old statute of Edward made treasonable, should be liable to the penalties of high-treason.

Another bill was designed to check the growing custom of holding public meetings, by providing
that no meeting, the object of which was to consider any petition to the King or Parliament,
or to deliberate on any alleged grievance, should be held without those who convened it, and
who must be householders, giving previous notice of it by public advertisement; and empowering
any two justices of the peace, at their own discretion, to declare any such meeting an unlawful
assembly, and to disperse it by force, if, from the subjects discussed, the language held,
or any special circumstances, they should regard it as dangerous.

Fox, and those who still adhered to him, resisted almost every clause of these different bills.
They maintained that one of the most fundamental maxims of law "in every country calling itself
free was, that property was in the highest degree entitled to the protection of the law; and,
if so, that the right of disposing of it or investing it in any manner must be considered under
the same protection;" that any interference "with ordinary commercial transactions was equally
repugnant to the spirit of the constitution;" and, taking a practical view of the question,
they warned the minister that such rigorous enactments imposing such extreme penalties would
defeat their own end; for "it was a general and true maxim, that excess of punishment for a
crime brings impunity along with it; and that no jury would ever find a verdict which would
doom a fellow-creature to death for selling a yard of cloth and sending it to France." They
protested, too, against inflicting on words, whether written or spoken, penalties which had
hitherto been confined to overt acts. And the clauses conferring power on magistrates to prevent
or disperse public meetings encountered still more vehement opposition; Fox insisting, with
great eloquence, that "public meetings for the discussion of public subjects were not only
lawful, but agreeable to the very essence of the constitution; that, indeed, to them, under
that constitution, most of the liberties which Englishmen now enjoyed were particularly owing."
The people, he maintained, had a right to discuss their grievances. "They had an inalienable
right to complain by petition, and to remonstrate to either House of Parliament, or to the
King; and to make two magistrates, who might be strong partisans, irresponsible judges whether
anything said or done at a meeting had a tendency to encourage sedition, was to say that a
free constitution was no longer suitable to us." Pitt justified these measures, partly on the
ground of the special and unprecedented danger of the times, as proved by the late attempt
on the King's life, and partly by the open avowal of republican doctrines made at the meetings
of different societies; partly, also, on the temporary character of the measures, since in
each bill a period was fixed after which its operation should expire. And he argued, farther,
that, as many of the actions specified in these bills as seditious or treasonable were by many
lawyers considered capable of being reached by statutes already existing, though not universally
understood, it was "humane, not cruel, to remove doubts, and to prevent men from being ensnared
by the ambiguity of old laws."

And in May, 1794, he brought in another bill, founded on the report of a secret committee which,
in compliance with a royal message, the House of Commons had appointed to investigate the proceedings
and objects of certain societies which were known to exist in different parts of the kingdom.
In obedience to a Secretary of State's warrant, founded on sworn informations, their books
and papers had been seized, and, having been sealed up, were now laid before the House, with
the report of the committee that they proved that several of the societies which they named
had, ever since the end of the year 1791, been uniformly pursuing a settled design for the
subversion of the constitution; one society, in particular, having approved a plan for assembling
a Convention, in imitation of the French Assembly sitting under that title, in order to overturn
the established government, and to wrest from the Parliament the power which the constitution
placed in its hands.

To prevent the dissemination of such principles, and to defeat such schemes, Pitt now asked
leave to bring in a bill to empower his Majesty--acting, of course, through the Secretary of
State--to secure and detain such persons as he should suspect of conspiring against the King's
person and government. He admitted that the power which he thus proposed to confer amounted
to a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in every part of the United Kingdom; nor did he deny
that it was an unusually strong measure, but he contended that it was one justified by absolute
necessity, by the manifest danger of such a conspiracy as the committee had affirmed to exist
to the tranquillity of the nation and the safety of the government.

Fox, it may almost be said as a matter of course, opposed the introduction of any such measure;
but his opposition was hardly marked by his usual force of argument. He was hampered by the
impossibility of denying either the existence of the societies which the committee and the
minister had mentioned, or the dangerous character of some of their designs; but he objected
to the measures of repression which were proposed, partly on the absence of all attempts at
concealment on the part of the promoters of these societies, partly on the contemptible character
of the Convention which it was designed to summon, and the impossibility that such an assembly
should have the slightest influence. He even made their avowed hostility to the constitution
a plea for a panegyric on that constitution, and on the loyal attachment to it evinced by the
vast majority of the people; and from that he proceeded to found a fresh argument against the
proposed measure, contending that it made a fatal inroad on that very constitution which was
so highly valued by the whole nation. He described it as a measure "of infinitely greater mischief
than that which it proposed to remedy, since it would give the executive authority absolute
power over the personal liberty of every individual in the kingdom." He did not deny that a
similar measure had been enacted under William III., again in 1715, and again in 1745; but
he contended that "the present peril bore no resemblance to the dangers of those times. This
measure went to overturn the very corner-stone of the constitution, and if it passed, there
was an end of the constitution of England." The bill was passed in both Houses by very large
majorities.[124] It was originally enacted for six months only, but was from time to time renewed
till the end of the century.

If we take a general survey of all these measures together, as parts of one great defensive
scheme for the preservation of the public tranquillity and the general safety of the empire,
it may, probably, be thought that, though undoubtedly suspensions of the constitution, they
are not open to the charge of being unconstitutional, since they were enacted, not only for
the welfare of the people, but with their consent and concurrence, legitimately signified by
their representatives in Parliament. It is scarcely consistent with sound reason to contend
that the habeas corpus, which had been enacted by Parliament, could not be suspended by the
authority which had enacted it; that the constitution, which exists for the benefit of the
people, could not be suspended by the people; or to deny, if it was in appearance transgressed
by these enactments, that it was yet transgressed by strictly constitutional acts, by the decision
of the Parliament, to whose power the constitution prescribes no limits.

But it is not sufficient that in this point of view these measures may have been defensible.
In judging of their statesmanship, it is almost equally to be considered whether they were
expedient and politic, whether the emergency or necessity were such as to justify such rigorous
methods of repression. It was fairly open to doubt whether some of them, and especially the
Traitorous Correspondence and the Seditious Meetings Bills, did not treat as treasonable acts
which did not go beyond sedition, and whether so to treat them were not to invest them with
an importance which did not belong to them. And on this part of the question the general judgment
has, we think, been unfavorable to the government; and it has been commonly allowed that the
Chancellor, whose advice on legal subjects the Prime-minister naturally took for his guide,
gave him impolitic counsel. In fact, it is well known that these two acts, to a great extent,
failed in their object through their excessive severity, several juries having refused to convict
persons who were prosecuted for treason, who would certainly not have escaped had they only
been indicted for sedition; and it is deserving of remark that these two bills were not regarded
with favor by the King himself, if the anecdote--which seems to rest on undeniable authority--be
true, that he expressed satisfaction at the acquittal of some prisoners, on the ground that
almost any evil would be more tolerable than that of putting men to death "for constructive
treason." It must therefore, probably, be affirmed that these two acts, the Treason Act and
the Seditious Meetings Act, went beyond the necessity of the case; that they were not only
violations of the constitution--which, when the measures are temporary, as these were, are
not always indefensible--but that they were superfluous, unjust, and impolitic; superfluous,
when they proposed to deal with acts already visitable with punishment by the ancient laws
of the kingdom; unjust, when they created new classes of offences; and impolitic, as exciting
that kind of disapproval of the acts of government which in many minds has a tendency to excite
a spirit of discontent with and resistance to legitimate authority. And, indeed, it must be
inferred that such was the light in which these measures were regarded by a statesman who in
his general policy was proud to acknowledge himself Mr. Pitt's pupil, as he was also the most
skilful and successful of his more immediate successors. Twenty-five years afterward the distress
caused by the reaction inevitably consequent on the termination of twenty years of war produced
a political excitement scarcely inferior to that with which Pitt had now to deal, and seditious
societies and meetings scarcely less formidable; but, as we shall see, Lord Liverpool, taking
warning, perhaps, from the mistake into which Mr. Pitt was led on this occasion, though compelled
to bring forward new and stern measures of repression, and even to suspend the Habeas Corpus
Act for a time, kept strictly within the lines of constitutional precedent, and was careful
to avoid confounding sedition with treason.

Notes:

[Footnote 73: He had been Lord-chamberlain in Lord Rockingham's administration of 1765. He
was now Lord-lieutenant of Ireland.]

[Footnote 74: In Lord Chatham's or the Duke of Grafton's ministry of 1766, and in the later
administration of Lord Rockingham.]

[Footnote 75: It may be convenient to take this opportunity of pointing out that, in this administration,
Lord Shelburne altered the old, most unreasonable, and inconvenient arrangement by which the
departments of the two Secretaries of State were distinguished by the latitude, and called
Northern and Southern. By a new division, one took charge of the home affairs, the other of
the foreign affairs. And in 1794 a third Secretary was added for War, who, by a very singular
arrangement, which continued till very recently, had charge also of the colonies. But, in the
year 1855, the Colonial-office was intrusted to a separate minister; and in 1858 a fifth Secretary
of State, that for India, was added, on the transfer of the government of that country from
the East India Company to the Crown. When there were only two Secretaries of State, the rule
was that one should sit in each House. At present it is not necessary that more than one should
be a peer, though it is more usual for two to be members of the Upper House. And it is usual
also for the Under-secretaries to be members of the House to which the Chief-secretaries do
not belong, though this rule is not invariably observed.]

[Footnote 76: "Parliamentary History," xxiii., 163.]

[Footnote 77: The divisions were: 224 to 208, and 207 to 190.]

[Footnote 78: Lord Stanhope, quoting from an unpublished "Life of Lord Barrington," compiled
by the Bishop of Durham (meaning, I suppose, Bishop Shute Barrington).--History of England,
v., 174.]

[Footnote 79: Even with the first flush of triumph, the night after the second defeat of Lord
Shelburne in the House of Commons, Fox's great friend, Mr. Fitzpatrick, writes to his brother,
Lord Ossory: "To the administration it is cila mors, but not victoria loeta to us. The apparent
juncture with Lord North is universally cried out against."--Lord J. Russell's Memorials and
Correspondence of C.J. Fox, ii., 18.]

[Footnote 80: Lord J. Russell's "Memorials and Correspondence of C.J. Fox," ii., 90.]

[Footnote 81: Ibid., p. 118.]

[Footnote 82: In one division (161 to 137) they had only a majority of twenty-four.]

[Footnote 83: In a letter to Lord Northington (Lord-lieutenant of Ireland), dated July 17,
Fox himself mentions that not one of his colleagues, except the Duke of Portland and Lord Keppel
(First Lord of the Admiralty), approved of it.--Memoirs of Fox, ii., 116.]

[Footnote 84: November 22 he writes to the Duke of Rutland: "The bill ... is, I really think,
the boldest and most unconstitutional measure ever attempted, transferring at one stroke, in
spite of all charters and compacts, the immense patronage and influence of the East to Charles
Fox, in or out of office."--Stanhope's Life of Pitt, i., 140.]

[Footnote 85: The whole paper is given by the Duke of Buckingham, "Courts and Cabinets of George
III," i., 288, and quoted by Lord Russell in his "Memorials and Correspondence of C. J. Fox,"
ii., 251. It is endorsed, "Delivered by Lord Thurlow, December 1, 1783. Nugent Temple."]

[Footnote 86: "Life of Pitt," i., 148. Lord Stanhope does not pledge himself to these being
"the exact words of this commission, but as to its purport and meaning there is no doubt."
They are, however, the exact words quoted by Fox in his speech in support of Mr. Baker's resolutions
on the 17th.--Parliamentary History, xxiv., 207.]

[Footnote 87: "Parliamentary History," xxiv., 151-154.]

[Footnote 88: 95 to 76. "Strange to say, one of the cabinet ministers, Lord Stormont, president
of the council, formed part of the final majority against the bill."--Life of Pitt, ii., 154.]

[Footnote 89: "Life of Pitt," i., 155.]

[Footnote 90: "Lives of the Chancellors," c. clix. Lord Thurlow.]

[Footnote 91: "The Grenville Papers," iii., 374. It may, however, be remarked, as tending to
throw some doubt on Mr. Grenville's statement, that Lord Campbell asserts that "Lord Mansfield,
without entering into systematic opposition, had been much alienated from the court during
Lord Rockingham's first administration."--Lives of the Chief-justices, ii., 468.]

[Footnote 92: Vol. ii., pp. 229-232.]

[Footnote 93: It will be seen hereafter that this doctrine was admitted in the fullest degree
by Sir Robert Peel in the winter of 1884, when he admitted that his acceptance of office made
him alone responsible for the dismissal of Lord Melbourne, though, in fact, he was taken entirely
by surprise by the King's act, being in Italy at the time.]

[Footnote 94: Lord John Russell, in his "Memorials of Fox" (ii., 253), affirms that "Lord Temple's
act was probably known to Pitt;" but Lord Macaulay, in his "Essay on Pitt" (p. 326), fully
acquits Pitt of such knowledge, saying that "he could declare, with perfect truth, that, if
unconstitutional machinations had been employed, he was no party to them."]

[Footnote 95: On Lord Effingham's motion, in condemnation of some of the proceedings of the
Commons, which was carried February 4, 1784, by 100 to 53.]

[Footnote 96: "Parliamentary History," xxiv., 383-385--debate of January 20, 1784.]

[Footnote 97: Ibid, p. 283--January 12.]

[Footnote 98: Ibid., pp. 251-257.]

[Footnote 99: "Parliamentary History," xxiv., 478--February 2.]

[Footnote 100: Ibid., p. 663.]

[Footnote 101: "Parliamentary History," xxiv., 687, 695, 699.]

[Footnote 102: The numbers were 201 to 189. The week before, on Mr. Powys's motion for a united
and efficient administration, the majority had been 20--197 to 177. On a motion made by Mr.
Coke, February 3, the majority had been 24--211 to 187. At the beginning of the struggle the
majorities had been far larger--232 to 143 on Fox's motion for a committee on the state of
the nation, January 12.]

[Footnote 103: 191 to 190.]

[Footnote 104: From December 19, when Pitt accepted office, to March 24, when the Parliament
was dissolved.]

[Footnote 105: "Memorials and Correspondence of C.J. Fox," by Earl Russell, ii., 229, 248.]

[Footnote 106: Ibid., p. 280.]

[Footnote 107: That of April, 1831, after the defeat of the Government on General Gascoyne's
amendment]

[Footnote 108: Lord Macaulay, "Miscellaneous Essays," ii., 330.]

[Footnote 109: Lord Macaulay, essay on William Pitt.]

[Footnote 110: Alison ("History of Europe," xiii., 971) states the English force in the Netherlands
in 1794 at 85,000 men. Lord Stanhope calls the English at Minden 10,000 or 12,000.]

[Footnote 111: An eminent living writer (Mr. Leeky, "History of England," ii., 474) quotes
with apparent approval another comparison between the father and son, made by Grattan, in the
following words: "The father was not, perhaps, so good a debater as his son, but was a much
better orator, a greater scholar, and a far greater man." The first two phrases in this eulogy
may, perhaps, balance one another; though, when Mr. Lecky admits that "Lord Chatham's taste
was far from pure, and that there was much in his speeches that was florid and meretricious,
and not a little that would have appeared absurd bombast but for the amazing power of his delivery,"
he makes a serious deduction from his claim to the best style of eloquence which no one ever
made from the speeches of his son. But Grattan's assertion that the man who, as his sister
said of him, knew but two books, the "Æneid" and the "Faerie Queene," was superior in scholarship
to one who, with the exception of his rival, Fox, had probably no equal for knowledge of the
great authors of antiquity in either House of Parliament, is little short of a palpable absurdity.
We may, however, suspect that Grattan's estimate of the two men was in some degree colored
by his personal feelings. With Lord Chatham he had never been in antagonism. On one great subject,
the dispute with America, he had been his follower and ally, advocating in the Irish House
of Commons the same course which Chatham upheld in the English House of Peers. But to Pitt
he had been almost constantly opposed. By Pitt he and his party, whether in the English, or,
so long as it lasted, in the Irish Parliament, had been repeatedly defeated. The Union, of
which he had been the indefatigable opponent, and to which he was never entirely reconciled,
had been carried in his despite; and it was hardly unnatural that the recollection of his long
and unsuccessful warfare should in some degree bias his judgment, and prompt him to an undeserved
disparagement of the minister by whose wisdom and firmness he had been so often overborne.]

[Footnote 112: Massey's "History of England," iii., 447; confer also Green's "History of the
English People," vol. iv.]

[Footnote 113: Hallam ("Middle Ages," ii., 386, 481), extolling the condition of "the free
socage tenants, or English yeomanry, as the class whose independence has stamped with peculiar
features both our constitution and our national character," gives two derivations for the name;
one "the Saxon soe, which signifies a franchise, especially one of jurisdiction;" and the other,
that adopted by Bracton, and which he himself prefers, "the French word soc, a ploughshare."]

[Footnote 114: Lord Colchester's "Diary," i., 68, mentions that the officiating clergyman was
Mr. Burt, of Twickenham, who received £500 for his services. Lord John Russell ("Memorials
and Correspondence of Fox," ii., 284-389) agrees in stating that the marriage was performed
in the manner prescribed by the Common Prayer-book. Mr. Jesse, in his "Life of George III.,"
ii., 506, gathering, as the present writer can say from personal knowledge, his information
from some papers left behind him by the late J.W. Croker, says: "The ceremony was performed
by a Protestant clergyman, though in part, apparently, according to the rites of the Roman
Catholic Church." Lord John Russell avoids discussing the question whether the marriage involved
the forfeiture of the inheritance of the crown, an avoidance which many will interpret as a
proof that in his opinion it did. Mr. Massey's language ("History of England," iii., 327) clearly
intimates that he holds the same opinion.]

[Footnote 115: Russell's "Life of Fox," ii., 187.]

[Footnote 116: Fox's private correspondence is full of anticipations that the Regent's first
act will be to dismiss Pitt, and to make him minister. In a letter of December 15 he even fixes
a fortnight as the time by which he expects to be installed; while Lord Loughborough, who was
eager to possess himself of the Great Seal--an expectation in which, though well-founded, he
would, as it proved, have found himself disappointed--was led by his hopes to give the Prince
counsel of so extraordinary a nature that it is said that the ministers, to whose knowledge
it had come, were prepared, if any attempt had been made to act upon it, or even openly to
avow it, to send the learned lord to the Tower. ("Diary of Lord Colchester," i., 28.) In an
elaborate paper which he drew up and read to the Prince at Windsor, he assured his Royal Highness,
speaking as a lawyer, that "the administration of government devolved to him of right. He was
bound by every duty to assume it, and his character would be lessened in the public estimation,
if he took it on any other ground but right, or on any sort of compromise. The authority of
Parliament, as the great council of the nation, would be interposed, not to confer but to declare
the right. The mode of proceeding should be that in a short time his Royal Highness should
signify his intention to act by directing a meeting of the Privy Council, when he should declare
his intention to take upon himself the care of the state, and should at the same time signify
his desire to have the advice of Parliament, and order it by proclamation to meet early for
the despatch of business.... It is of vast importance in the outset that he should appear to
act entirely of himself, and, in the conferences he must necessarily have, not to consult,
but to listen and direct." 1832) gives a definition of the term "unconstitutional" which seems
rather singular: "By unconstitutional, as distinguished from 'illegal,' I mean a novelty of
much importance, tending to endanger the established laws." May not the term rather be regarded
as referring to a distinct class of acts--to those at variance with the recognized spirit of
the constitution or principles of government, with the preservation of the liberties of the
people, as expressed or implied in the various charters, etc., but not forbidden by the express
terms of any statute?]

[Footnote 123: The entry in the "Parliamentary History," November 20, 1788, is: "Both Houses
met pursuant to the last prorogation.

In describing the condition of Ireland and the feelings of its people, in the latter years
of the reign of George II., Mr. Hallam has fixed on the year 1753 as that in which the Irish
Parliament first began to give vent to aspirations for equality with the English Parliament
in audible complaints; and the Irish House of Commons, finding the kingdom in the almost unprecedented
condition of having "a surplus revenue after the payment of all charges," took steps to vindicate
that equality by a sort of appropriation bill.

There were, however, three fundamental differences between the Parliaments of the two countries,
which, above all others, stood in the way of such equality as the Irish patriots desired: the
first, that by a law as old as the time of Henry VII., and called sometimes the Statute of
Drogheda, from the name of the town in which it was first promulgated, and sometimes Poynings'
Act, from the name of Sir Henry Poynings, the Lord-deputy at the time, no bill could be introduced
into the Irish Parliament till it had received the sanction of the King and Privy Council in
England; the second, that the Parliament lasted for the entire life of the King who had summoned
it--a regulation which caused a seat in the House of Commons to be regarded almost as a possession
for life, and consequently enormously increased the influence of the patrons of boroughs, some
of whom could return a number of members such as the mightiest borough monger in England could
never aspire to equal.[125] The third difference, of scarcely inferior importance, was, that
the Parliament only sat in alternate years. But, though these arrangements suited the patrons
and the members of the House of Commons, it was not strange that the constituencies, whose
power over their representatives was almost extinguished by them, regarded them with less complacency,
and, at the general election which was the consequence of the accession of George III., pledges
were very generally exacted from the candidates that, if elected, they would endeavor to procure
the passing of a septennial act like that which had been the law in England ever since the
early years of George I. A bill with that object was introduced in 1761, and reported on not
unfavorably as to its principle by the English law advisers to whom the Privy Council referred
it. But, as if it had been designed to exemplify in the strongest possible manner the national
propensity for making blunders, it contained one clause which rendered it not only impracticable
but ridiculous. The clause provided that no member should take his seat or vote till his qualification
had been proved before the Speaker in a full house. But the Speaker could not be chosen till
the members had established their right of voting, so that the whole was brought to a dead-lock,
and the bill, if passed, could never have been carried out.

In the ministry of 1767, however--that of the Duke of Grafton and Lord Chatham--Lord Halifax
was replaced at Dublin Castle by Lord Townsend, who, among his other good qualities, deserves
specially honorable mention as the first Lord-lieutenant who made residence in Dublin his rule
on principle; for till very lately non-residence had been the rule and residence the exception,
a fact which is of itself a melancholy but all-sufficient proof of the absolute indifference
to Irish interests shown by all classes of English statesmen. And under his government a bill
for shortening Parliaments was passed, though it fixed the possible duration of each Parliament
at eight years instead of seven, the variation being made to prevent a general election from
being held at the same time in both countries, but, according to common belief, solely in order
to keep up a mark of difference between the Irish and English Parliaments. And those who entertained
this suspicion fancied they saw a confirmation of it in the retention of the regulation that
the Irish Parliament should only sit in alternate years, a practice wholly inconsistent with
any proper idea of the duties and privileges of a Parliament such as prevailed on this side
of the Channel; since a Parliament whose sessions were thus intermittent could not possibly
exercise that degree of supervision over the revenue, either in its collection or its expenditure,
which is among its most important duties. And the continued maintenance of this practice must
be regarded farther as a proof that the English legislators had not yet learned to consider
Ireland as an integral part of the kingdom, entitled in every particular to equal rights with
England and Scotland. Indeed, it is impossible for any Englishman to contemplate the history
of the treatment of Ireland by the English legislators, whether Kings, ministers, or Parliaments,
for more than a century and a half, without equal feelings of shame at the injustice and wonder
at the folly of their conduct. Not only was Ireland denied freedom of trade with England (a
denial as inconsistent not only with equity but also with common-sense as if Windsor had been
refused free trade with London),[126] but Irish manufactures were deliberately checked and
suppressed to gratify the jealous selfishness of the English manufacturers. Macaulay, in his
zeal for the memory of William III., has not scrupled to apologize for, if not to justify,
the measures deliberately sanctioned by that sovereign for the extinction of the Irish woollen
manufactures, on the ground that Ireland was not a sister kingdom, but a colony; that "the
general rule is, that the English Parliament is competent to legislate for all colonies planted
by English subjects, and that no reason existed for considering the case of the colony in Ireland
as an exception."[127] There is, perhaps, no passage in his whole work less to his credit.
But, if such was the spirit in which an English historian could write of Ireland in the latter
half of this present century, it may, perhaps, diminish our wonder at the conduct of our legislators
in an earlier generation.

The penal laws on the subject of religion were also conceived and carried out in a spirit of
extraordinary rigor and injustice. By far the larger portion of the Irish population still
adhered to the Roman Catholic faith; but, as far as the negative punishment of restrictions
and disabilities could go, its profession was visited as one of the most unpardonable of offences.
No Roman Catholic could hold a commission in the army, nor be called to the Bar, nor practise
as an attorney; and when it was found that a desire to devote themselves to the study of the
law had led many gentlemen to acknowledge a conversion to Protestantism, a statute was actually
passed to require them to prove their sincerity by five years' adherence to their new form
of religion before they could be regarded as having washed off the defilement of their old
heresy sufficiently to be thought worthy to wear a gown in the Four Courts. No Roman Catholic
might keep a school; while a strange refinement of intolerance had added a statute prohibiting
parents from sending their children to Roman Catholic Schools in a foreign country.

And the manner in which the government was carried on was, if possible, worse even than the
principle. The almost continual absence of the Lord-lieutenant inevitably left the chief management
of the details in the hands of underlings, and the favor of the Castle was only to be acquired
by the lowest time-serving, of which those who could influence elections, wealthy and high-born
as they for the most part were, were not more innocent than the representatives. No support
to government could be looked for from either peer or commoner unless it were purchased by
bribes more or less open, which it was equally discreditable to ask and to grant; for one of
the worst fruits of the system which had so long reigned throughout the island was the general
demoralization of all classes. Mr. Fronde gives George III. himself the credit of being the
first person who resolutely desired to see a change of the system, and to "try the experiment
whether Ireland might not be managed by open rectitude and real integrity."[128] But his first
efforts were baffled by the carelessness or incompetency of the Viceroys, since it was difficult
to find any man of ability who would undertake the office. And for some years things went on
with very little change, great lords of different ranks having equally no object but that of
controlling the Castle and engrossing the patronage of the government, and in not a few instances
of also procuring large grants or pensions for themselves, each seeking to build up an individual
influence which no Viceroy could ever have withstood, had they been united instead of being
separated by mutual jealousies, which enabled him from time to time to play off one against
the other.

But the war with the North American Colonies, which broke out in 1774, by some of its indirect
consequences brought about a great change in the affairs of Ireland. The demand for re-enforcements
to the armies engaged in America could only be met by denuding the British islands themselves
of their necessary garrisons. No part of them was left so undefended as the Irish coast; and,
after a time, the captains of some of the American privateers, learning how little resistance
they had to fear, ventured into St. George's Channel, penetrated even into the inland waters,
and threatened Carrickfergus and Belfast. In matters of domestic policy it was possible to
procrastinate, to defer deciding on relaxations of the penal laws or the removal of trade restrictions,
but to delay putting the country into a state of defence against an armed enemy for a single
moment was not to be thought of; yet the government was powerless. Of the regular army almost
every available man was in, or on his way to, America, and the most absolute necessity, therefore,
compelled the Irish to consider themselves as left to their own resources for defence. It was
as impossible to levy a force of militia as one of regular troops, for the militia could not
be embodied without great expense; and the finances of the whole kingdom had been so mismanaged
that money was as hard to procure as men. In this emergency several gentlemen proposed to the
Lord-lieutenant to raise bodies of volunteers. The government, though reluctant to sanction
the movement, could see no alternative, since the presence of an armed force of some kind was
indispensable for the safety of the island. The movement grew rapidly; by the summer of 1779
several thousand men were not only under arms, but were being rapidly drilled into a state
of efficiency, and had even established such a reputation for strength, that, when in the autumn
the same privateers that had been so bold in Belfast Lough the year before reached the Irish
coast, in the hope of plundering Limerick or Galway, they found the inhabitants of the district
well prepared to receive them, and did not venture to attempt a descent on any part of the
island. And, when the Parliament met in October, some of the members, who saw in the success
that could not be denied to have attended their exertions an irresistible means of strengthening
the rising pretensions of Ireland to an equality of laws and freedom with England, moved votes
of thanks in both Houses to the whole body of Volunteers. They were carried by acclamation,
and the Volunteers of the metropolis lined the streets between the Parliament House and the
Castle when, according to custom, the members of the two Houses marched in procession to present
their addresses to the Lord-lieutenant. Such a recognition of the power of this new force stimulated
those members who claimed in a special degree the title of Friends of Ireland to greater exertion.
A wiser government than that of Lord North would have avoided giving occasion for the existence
of a force which the utter absence of any other had made masters of the situation. The Volunteers
even boasted that they had been called into existence by English misgovernment. In the words
of one of their most eloquent advocates, "England had sown her laws like dragons' teeth, and
they had sprung up as armed men."

Ireland began to feel that she was strong, and, not unnaturally desired to avail herself of
that strength, which England now could not question, to put forward demands for concessions
which in common fairness could not well be denied. In 1778, when Lord North, in the hope of
recovering the allegiance of the North American Colonies, brought forward what he termed his
conciliatory propositions, the Irish members began to press their demand that the advantages
thus offered to the Americans should be extended to their own countrymen also; that the fact
of the Irish not having rebelled should not be made a plea for treating them worse than those
who had; and in the front of all their requests was one for the abolition of those unjust and
vexatious duties which shackled their trade and manufactures. But the jealousy of the English
and Scotch manufacturers was still as bitter, and, unhappily, still as influential, as it had
proved in the time of William III. And, to humor the grasping selfishness of Manchester and
Glasgow, Lord North met the demands of the Irish with a refusal of which every word of his
speech on the propositions to America was the severest condemnation, and which he sought to
mitigate by some new regulations in favor of the linen trade, to which the English and Scotch
manufacturers made no objection, since they had no linen factories. The Irish, in despair,
had recourse to non-importation agreements, of which the Americans had set the example, binding
themselves not to import nor to use any articles of English or Scotch manufacture with which
they could possibly dispense. And the result was, that Lord North yielded to fear what he had
refused to justice, and the next year brought in bills to grant the Irish the commercial equality
which they demanded. Some of the most oppressive and vexatious of the penal laws were also
relaxed; and some restrictions which the Navigation Act imposed on commerce with the West Indies
were repealed. But, strange to say, the English ministers still clung to one grievance of monstrous
injustice, and steadily refused to allow judicial appointments to be placed on the same footing
as in England, and to make the seat of a judge on the bench depend on his own good conduct,
instead of on the caprice of a king or a minister.

But the manifest reluctance with which the English government had granted this partial relief
encouraged the demand for farther concessions. The Irish members, rarely deficient in eloquence
or fertility of resource, had been lately re-enforced by a recruit of pre-eminent powers, whom
Lord Charlemont had returned for his borough of Moy, Henry Grattan; and, led by him, began
to insist that the remaining grievances, to the removal of which the nation had a right, would
never be extinguished so long as the supreme power of legislation for the country rested with
the English and Scotch Parliament; and that the true remedy was only to be found in the restoration
to the Irish Parliament of that independence of which it had been deprived ever since the time
of Henry VII. They were encouraged by the visibly increasing weakness of Lord North's administration.
Throughout the year 1781 it was evidently tottering to its fall. And on the 22d of February,
1782, Grattan brought forward in the Irish House of Commons a resolution, intended, if carried,
to lay the foundation of a bill, "that a claim of any body of men other than the King, Lords,
and Commons of Ireland to bind this kingdom is unconstitutional, illegal, and a grievance."
This resolution aimed at the abolition of Poynings' Act. Other resolutions demanded the abolition
of the "powers exercised by the Privy Council under color of Poynings' Act," and a farther
relaxation of the penal laws. So helpless did the government by this time feel itself, that
the Attorney-general, who was its spokesman on this occasion, could not venture to resist the
principle of these resolutions, but was contented to elude them for the time by objections
taken to some of the details; and Grattan gave notice of another motion to bring the question
to a more definite decision, which he fixed for the 16th of April.

Before that day came Lord North's government had ceased to exist, and had been replaced by
Lord Rockingham's, one most influential member of which was the most distinguished of living
Irishmen, Mr. Burke, who, while in opposition, had always shown himself a warm supporter of
the claims of his countrymen, and was not likely to have his ardor in the cause damped by being
placed in a situation where he could procure a friendly hearing to his counsels. Once more
they had increased their demands, requiring, besides the removal of the purely political grievances,
a surrender of the right of appeal from the Irish to the English courts of law. But their new
masters were inclined to grant everything which seemed requisite to the establishment of complete
equality between the two kingdoms; and though the new ministry was dissolved in a few months
by the premature death of its chief, he lived long enough to carry the repeal of Poynings'
Act, the retention of which was now admitted to be not only senseless but mischievous, since
the existence of a body invested with nominal dignity, but practically powerless, was calculated
not only to provoke discontent, but to furnish a lever for agitation.

The repeal was, however, nothing less than the establishment of an entirely new constitution
in Ireland. The Irish Parliament, the meetings of which had hitherto been a mere form and farce,
was installed in a position of absolute independence, to grant money or to make laws, subject
to no other condition than that their legislation should be of a character to entitle it to
the royal assent, a condition to which every act of the British Parliament was likewise and
equally liable. "Unhappily, as an Irish patriotic writer exclaims on this occasion, it was
written in the book of fate that the felicity of Ireland should be short-lived."[129] And a
similar shortness of existence was to be the lot of the separate independence of her Parliament.
Even while framing instructions for the Lord-lieutenant, in his honest desire to inaugurate
a system of just government for Ireland, George III. had warned him on no account to "summon
a Parliament without his special command."[130] And, regarded by the light of subsequent events,
it can hardly be denied that the prohibition displayed an accurate insight into the real difficulties
of the country, and also into the character of the people themselves as the source of at least
some of those difficulties. We ought not to judge its leaders too severely. A nation which
has been long kept in bondage, and is suddenly presented with liberty, is hardly more able
to bear the change than a man immured for years in a dark dungeon can at once endure the unveiled
light of the sun; and independence had been granted to the Irish too suddenly for it to be
probable that they would at once and in every instance exercise it wisely.

All parties were to blame in different degrees. The first danger came from the Volunteers,
who, flushed with self-importance, from the belief that it was the imposing show of their strength
which had enabled the Parliament to extort Lord Rockingham's concession from the English Houses,
now claimed to be masters of the Parliament itself. With the termination of the American war,
and the consequent return of the English army to Europe, the reason for their existence had
passed away. But they refused to be disbanded, and established a convention of armed delegates,
to sit in Dublin during the session of Parliament, and to overawe the Houses into passing a
series of measures which they prescribed, and which included a Parliamentary Reform Bill of
a most sweeping character. On this occasion, however, the House of Commons acted with laudable
firmness. Led by Mr. Fitzgibbon, a man of great powers, and above all suspicion of corruptibility,
it spurned the dictation of an unauthorized body, and rejected the Reform Bill, avowedly on
the ground of its being presented to it "under the mandate of a military congress;" and the
Convention, finding itself powerless to enforce its mandates, dissolved.

But the difficulties of the government were not over with the suppression of the Volunteer
Convention. The Lord-lieutenant had a harder, because a more enduring, contest to encounter
with the Parliament and the patrons of the boroughs. A single act of Parliament may substitute
a new law for an old one; but no one resolution or bill has a magical power to extinguish long
habits of jobbery and corruption. Members and patrons alike seemed to regard the late concessions
as chiefly valuable on account of the increased value which it enabled them to place on their
services to the government; and one cannot read without a feeling of shame that one or two
of the bishops who were wont to be regarded as the proprietors of the seats for their diocesan
cities, were not behind the most nameless lay boroughmongers in the resolution they evinced
make a market of their support of the government. The consequence was that the government was
unable to feel confident of its power to carry any measure except at a price that it was degrading
to pay; while of those few members who were above all suspicion of personal corruption, many
were so utterly wrong-headed, and had their minds so filled with unreasonable jealousy for
what they called the honor and dignity of Ireland, and with a consequent distrust of England
and of all Englishmen, that their honest folly was even a greater obstacle to wise and good
government than the mean cunning of the others. There can hardly be a more striking proof of
the difficulties to be overcome by a minister than is furnished by a speech made by a gentleman
of the highest character, and of deservedly wide influence in the Northern counties, Mr. Brownlow,
of Lurgan, one of the members for Armagh, which is quoted by Mr. Froude.[131]

Pitt was painfully conscious of the commercial injustice with which hitherto Ireland had always
been treated, and in the very first year of his administration he applied himself to the removal
of the most mischievous of the grievances of which the Irish merchants complained, adopting
to a great extent a scheme which had been put before him by one of the most considerable gentlemen
of that body, which was based on the principle of equalization of duties in both countries.
It is unnecessary here to enter into the details of the measure which he introduced into the
House of Commons. He avowed it to be the commencement of a new system of government for Ireland,
"a system of a participation and community of benefits, a system of equality and fairness,
which, without tending to aggrandize one portion of the empire or to depress the other, should
seek the aggregate interest of the whole; it was a substitute for the system which had hitherto
been adopted of making the smaller country completely subordinate to and subservient to the
greater, of making the smaller and poorer country a mere instrument for the advantage of the
greater and wealthier one. He, therefore, proposed now to create a situation of perfect commercial
equality, in which there was to be a community of benefits, and also to some extent a community
of burdens." And he urged the House to "adopt that system of trade with Ireland that would
tend to enrich one part of the empire without impoverishing the other, while it would give
strength to both; that, like mercy, the favorite attribute of Heaven,

  "'Is twice blessed--
  It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.'"

It might, he said, be regarded as "a treaty with Ireland by which that country would be put
on a fair, equal, and impartial footing with Great Britain, in point of commerce, with respect
to foreign countries and our colonies." The community of burdens which his measure would impose
on Ireland was this: that whenever the gross hereditary revenue of Ireland should exceed £650,000
(an amount considerably in excess of anything it had ever yet reached), the excess should be
applied to the support of the fleet of the United Kingdom. It was, in fact, a burden that could
have no existence at all until the Irish trade had become far more flourishing and productive
than as yet it had ever been. Yet a measure conceived in such a spirit of liberality, and framed
with such careful attention to the minutest interests of Irish trade, Mr. Brownlow did not
hesitate to denounce as one "tending to make Ireland a tributary nation to Great Britain. The
same terms," he declared, "had been held out to America, and Ireland had equal spirit with
America to reject them." He even declared that "it was happy for Mr. Orde" (the Chief Secretary,
who had introduced the measure into the Irish House of Commons) "that he was in a country remarkable
for humanity. Had he proposed such a measure in a Polish Diet, he would not have lived to carry
back an answer to his master. If," he concluded, "the gifts of Britain are to be accompanied
with the slavery of Ireland, I will never be a slave to pay tribute; I will hurl back her gifts
with scorn." Baffled by such frantic and senseless opposition, Pitt condescended to remodel
his measure. In its new form it was not so greatly for the advantage of Ireland. He had been
constrained to admit some limitation of his original liberality by the opposition which, it
had met with in England also where Fox, at all times an avowed enemy of freedom of trade, had
made himself the mouth-piece of the London and Liverpool merchants, who could not see, without
the most narrow-minded apprehension, the monopoly of the trade with India and the West Indies,
which they had hitherto enjoyed, threatened by the admission of Ireland to its benefits. And
now a clause in the second bill, binding the Irish Parliament to reenact the Navigation Laws
existing in England, called up an opposition from Grattan[132] as furious as that with which
Mr. Brownlow had denounced the original measure. To demand the enactment of the English Navigation
Law, he declared, was "a revocation of the constitution;" and his rival, Flood, in his zeal
to emulate his popularity with the mob, surpassing him in vehemence, inveighed against the
clause, as one intended to make the Irish Parliament a mere register of the English Parliament,
"which it should never become". All the arguments brought forward in favor of the measure by
the supporters of the government--arguments which, probably, no one would now be found to deny
to have been unanswerable--failed to make the slightest impression on a House in which the
chief object of each opponent of the ministry seemed to be to outrun his fellows in violence;
and eventually the measure fell to the ground, and for fifteen years more Ireland was deprived
of the advantages which had been intended for her.

And even yet the danger from the Volunteers was not wholly extinguished. Though their Convention
had been suppressed, its leaders had only changed their tactics. Under the guidance of a Dublin
ironmonger, named Napper Tandy, they now proposed to convene a Congress, to consist, not, as
before, of delegates from the Volunteer body, but of persons who should be representatives
of the entire nation; and Tandy had even the audacity to issue circulars to the sheriffs of
the different counties, to require them, in their official capacity, to summon the people to
return representatives to this Congress. The Sheriff of Dublin, a man of the name of O'Reilly,
obeyed the requisition; but Fitzgibbon, who, luckily, was now Attorney-general, instantly prosecuted
him for abuse of his office. He was convicted, fined, and imprisoned, and his punishment deterred
others from following his example. And a rigorous example had become indispensable, since it
was known to the government that Tandy and some of his followers were acting in connection
with French emissaries, and that their object was the separation of Ireland from England, and,
in the minds of some of them, certainly the annexation of the country to France; indeed, on
one occasion Fitzgibbon asserted in the House of Commons that he had seen resolutions inviting
the French into the country. The government would gladly have established a militia to supersede
the Volunteers, but the temper of the Irish Parliament, in its newly-acquired independence,
rendered any such attempt hopeless; and Mr. Grattan, with a perversity of judgment which his
warmest admirers must find it difficult to reconcile with statesmanship, if not with patriotism,
even opposed with extreme bitterness a bill for the establishment of a police for Dublin, though
he could not deny that there existed in the city an organized body of ruffians, who made not
only the streets but even the dwelling-houses of the more orderly citizens unsafe, by outrages
of the worst kind, committed on the largest scale--assaults, plunderings, ravishments, and
murders. In the rural districts of the South the disturbances were so criminally violent, and
so incessant, that the Lord-lieutenant was compelled to request the presence of some additional
regiments from England, as the sole means of preserving any kind of respect for the law; and
more than once the mobs of rioters showed themselves so bold and formidable, that the soldiers
were compelled to fire in self-defence, and order was not restored but at the cost of many lives.

Presently a Conspiracy Bill was passed, and gradually the firmness of the government re-established
a certain amount of internal tranquillity. But shortly afterward a crisis arose which, more
than the debates on the commercial propositions, or on the Volunteers, or on the police, showed
how over-liberal had been the confidence of the English minister who had repealed Poynings'
Act, and had bestowed independent authority on the Irish Parliament before the members had
learned how to use it. We have seen how keen a contest was excited in the English Parliament
by the deranged condition of the King's health in 1788, and the necessity which consequently
arose for the appointment of a Regency. Grattan was in London at the time, where he had contracted
a personal intimacy with Fox, and had been presented by him to the Prince of Wales, whose graciousness
of manner, and profession of adherence to the Whig system of politics, secured his attachment
to that party. Grattan was easily indoctrinated by Fox with his theory of the indefeasible
claim of the Prince to the Regency as his birthright, and is understood to have promised that
the Irish Parliament should adopt that view. The case was one which seemed unprovided for.
There was no question but that the law enacted that the sovereign of England should also be
the sovereign of Ireland. But no express law of either country contained any such stipulation
respecting a Regent; and Grattan conceived that, in the absence of any pre-existing ordinance,
it would be easy to contend that the Irish Parliament was the sole judge who the Regent should
be, and on what terms he should exercise the royal authority.

The Irish Parliament had been prorogued in 1787 to the 5th of February, 1789, the same day
on which, after numerous examinations of the physicians in attendance on the royal patient,
and after the passing of a series of resolutions enunciating the principles on which the government
was proceeding, Pitt introduced the Regency Bill into the English House of Commons, being prepared
to conduct it through both Houses with all the despatch that might be consistent with a due
observance of all the forms of deliberation. Grattan's object was to anticipate the decision
of the English Parliament, so as to avoid every appearance that the Irish Parliament was only
following it; and he therefore proposed that the House of Commons should instantly vote an
address to the Prince, requesting him to take upon himself the Regency of the kingdom of Ireland,
by his own natural right as the heir of the crown; making sure not only that his advice would
be taken by those whom he was addressing, but that the House of Lords would not venture to
dissent from it.

Fitzgibbon, as Attorney-general and spokesman of the government in the Commons, as a matter
of course opposed such precipitate action, not only warning his hearers of the folly and danger
of taking a step "which might dissolve the single tie which now connected Ireland with Great
Britain," but explaining also the whole principle of the constitution of the two kingdoms,
so far as it was a joint constitution, in terms which give his speech a permanent value as
a summary of its principle and its character. He recalled to the recollection of the House
the act of William and Mary, which declares "the kingdom of Ireland to be annexed to the imperial
crown of England, and the sovereign of England to be by undoubted right sovereign of Ireland
also;" and argued from this that Mr. Grattan's proposal was contrary to the laws of the realm
and criminal in the extreme. "The crown of Ireland," as he told his hearers, "and the crown
of England are inseparably united, and the Irish Parliament is totally independent of the British
Parliament. The first of these positions is your security, the second your freedom, and any
other language tends to the separation of the crowns or the subjection of your Parliament.
The only security of your liberty is the connection with Great Britain; and gentlemen who risk
breaking the connection must make up their minds to a union. God forbid I should ever see that
day; but, if the day comes on which a separation shall be attempted, I shall not hesitate to
embrace a union rather than a separation."

He proceeded to show that, as the Irish Parliament had itself enacted that all bills which
passed their two Houses should require the sanction of the Great Seal of England, they actually
had no legal power to confer on the Prince of Wales such authority as Grattan advised his being
invested with, whatever might be the form of words in which their resolution was couched. He
pointed out, also, that if the Irish Parliament should insist on appointing the Prince of Wales
Regent before it was known whether he would accept the Regency of England, it was manifestly
not impossible "that they might be appointing a Regent for Ireland being a different person
from the Regent of England; and in that case the moment a Regent was appointed in Great Britain,
he might send a commission under the Great Seal appointing a Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and
to that commission the Regent of Ireland would be bound to pay obedience. Another objection
of great force to his mind was, that the course recommended by Grattan would be a formal appeal
from the Parliament of England to that of Ireland. It would sow the seeds of dissension between
the Parliaments of the two countries. And, indeed, those who were professing themselves advocates
for the independence of the Irish crown were advocates for its separation from England."

But the House was too entirely under the influence of Grattan's impassioned eloquence for Fitzgibbon's
more sober arguments to be listened to. The address proposed by Grattan was carried by acclamation;
and the peers were scarcely less unanimous in its favor, one of the archbishops even dilating
on "the duty of availing themselves of the opportunity of asserting the total independence
of Ireland." Even when, on a second discussion as to the mode in which the address was to be
presented to the Prince, Fitzgibbon reported that he had consulted the Chancellor and all the
judges, and that they were unanimously of opinion that, till the Regency Bill should be passed
in England, the address was not only improper but treasonable, he found his warning equally
disregarded. And when the Lord-lieutenant refused to transmit the address to England, on the
avowed ground of its illegality, Grattan proposed and carried three resolutions: the first,
that the address was not illegal, but that, in addressing the Prince to take on himself the
Regency, the Parliament of Ireland had exercised an undoubted right; the second, that the Lord-lieutenant's
refusal to transmit the address to his Royal Highness was ill-advised and unconstitutional;
the third, that a deputation from the two Houses should go to London, to present the address
to the Prince. Mr. Fronde affirms that the deputation, even when preparing to sail for England,
was very irresolute and undecided whether to present the address or not, from a reasonable
fear of incurring the penalties of treason, to which the lawyers pronounced those who should
present it liable. But their courage was not put to the test. As has been already seen, before
the end of the month the King's recovery was announced, and the question of a Regency did not
occur again till the Irish Parliament had been united to the English.

Since Lord Rockingham's concessions, in 1782, the project of a legislative union between the
two countries, resembling that which united Scotland to England, had more than once been broached.
We have seen it alluded to by Fitzgibbon in the course of these discussions, and it was no
new idea. It had been discussed even before the union with Scotland was completed, and had
then been regarded in Ireland with feelings very different from those which prevailed at a
later period. Ten years after the time of which we are speaking, Grattan denounced the scheme
with almost frantic violence. Fitzgibbon (though after the Rebellion he recommended it as indispensable)
as yet regarded it only as an alternative which, though he might eventually embrace it, he
should not accept without extreme reluctance. But at the beginning of the century all parties
among the Protestant Irish had been eager for it, and even the leading Roman Catholics had
been not unwilling to acquiesce in it. Unluckily, the English ministers were unable to shake
off the influence of the English manufacturers; and they, in another development of the selfish
and wicked jealousy which had led them in William's reign to require the suppression of the
Irish woollen manufacture, now, in Anne's, rose against the proposal of a legislative union.[133]
In blindness which was not only fatal but suicidal also, "they persuaded themselves that the
union would make Ireland rich, and that England's interest was to keep her poor;" as if it
had been possible for one portion of the kingdom to increase in prosperity without every other
portion benefiting also by the improvement.

However, in the reign of Anne the union was a question only of expediency or of wisdom. The
wide divergence of the two Parliaments on this question of the Regency transformed it into
a question of necessity. The King might have a relapse; the Irish Parliament, on a recurrence
of the crisis, might re-affirm its late resolutions; might frame another address to the Prince
of Wales; and there might be no alternative between seeing two different persons Regents of
England and Ireland, or, what would be nearly the same thing, seeing the same person Regent
of the two countries on different grounds, and exercising a different authority.

And if these proceedings of the Irish Parliament had wrought in the mind of the great English
minister a conviction of the absolute necessity of preventing a recurrence of such dangers
by the only practicable means open to him--the fusion of it into one body with the English
Parliament by a legislative union--the occurrences of the ensuing ten years enforced that conviction
with a weight still more irresistible. It has been seen how stirring an influence the revolutionary
fever engendered by the overthrow of the French monarchy for a time exerted even over the calmer
temper of Englishmen. In Ireland, where, ever since Sarsfield and his brave garrison enlisted
under the banner of Louis XIV., a connection more or less intimate with France had been constantly
kept up, the events in Paris had produced a far deeper and wider effect. More than one demagogue
among the Volunteers had avowed a desire to see the whole country transfer its allegiance from
the English to the French sovereign; and this preference was more pronounced after the triumph
of democracy in the French capital. For the leaders of the movement, themselves nearly all
men of the lowest degree, denounced the Irish nobles with almost as much vehemence as the English
connection.

Yet Pitt's policy, dictated partly by a spirit of conciliation, and still more by feelings
of justice, was gradually removing many of the grievances of which the Irish had real reason
to complain. Next to the restrictions on trade, nothing had made such an impression on his
mind as the iniquity of the penal laws; and those he proceeded to repeal, encouraging the introduction
of bills to throw open the profession of the law to Roman Catholics, to allow them seats on
the magistrates' bench and commissions in the army, and to grant them the electoral franchise,
a concession which he himself would willingly have extended by admitting them to Parliament
itself. But these relaxations of the old Penal Code, important as they were, only conciliated
the higher classes of the Roman Catholics. Most of the Roman Catholic prelates, and most of
the Roman Catholic lay nobles, proclaimed their satisfaction at what had been done, and their
good-will toward the minister who had done it; but the professional agitators were exasperated
rather than conciliated at finding so much of the ground on which they had rested cut from
beneath their feet. So desirous was Pitt to carry conciliation to the greatest length that
could be consistent with safety, that he held more than one conference with Grattan himself;
but he found that great orator not very manageable, partly, as it may seem from some of Mr.
Windham's letters, through jealousy of Fitzgibbon, who was now the Irish Chancellor,[134] and
still more from a desire to propitiate the Roman Catholics, for whom he demanded complete and
immediate Emancipation; while Pitt, who was, probably, already resolved on accomplishing a
legislative Union, thought, as far as we can judge, that Emancipation should follow, not precede,
the Union, lest, if it should precede it, it might prove rather a stumbling-block in the way
than a stepping-stone to the still more important measure.

It is not very easy to determine what influence the "Emancipation," as it was rather absurdly
called,[135] if it had been granted at that time, might have had in quieting the prevailing
discontent. With one large party it would probably have increased it, for there was quite as
great an inclination to insurrection in Ulster as in Leinster or Munster; and with the Northern
Presbyterians animosity to Popery was at least as powerful a feeling as sympathy with the French
Republicans. A subsequent chapter, however, will afford a more fitting opportunity for discussing
the arguments in favor of or against Emancipation. What seems certain is, that a large party
among the Roman Catholics of the lower class valued Emancipation itself principally as a measure
to another end--a separation from England. Pitt, meanwhile, hopeless of reconciling the leaders
of the different parties--the impulsive enthusiasm of Grattan with the sober, practical wisdom
of Fitzgibbon--pursued his own policy of conciliation united with vigor; and one of the measures
which he now carried subsists, unaltered in its principle, to the present day.

There was no part of the penal laws of which the folly and iniquity were more intolerable than
the restrictions which they imposed on education. To a certain extent, they defeated themselves.
The clause which subjected to severe penalties a Roman Catholic parent who sent his child abroad
to enjoy the benefits of an education which he was not allowed to receive at home, was manifestly
almost incapable of enforcement, and the youths designed for orders in the Romish Church had
been invariably sent to foreign colleges--some to Douai or St. Omer, in France; some to the
renowned Spanish University of Salamanca. But the French colleges had been swept away by the
Revolution, which also made a passage to Spain (the greater expense of which had at all times
confined that resource to a small number of students) more difficult; and the consequence was,
that in 1794 the Roman Catholic Primate, Dr. Troy, petitioned the government to grant a royal
license for the endowment of a college in Ireland. Justice and policy were equally in favor
of the grant of such a request. For the sake of the whole kingdom, and even for that of Protestantism
itself, it was better that the Roman Catholic priesthood should be an educated rather than
an ignorant body of men; and, in the temper which at that time prevailed over the western countries
of the Continent, it was at least equally desirable that the rising generation should be preserved
from the contagion of the revolutionary principles which the present rulers of France were
so industrious to propagate. Pitt at once embraced the idea, and in the spring of the next
year a bill was introduced into the Irish Parliament by the Chief Secretary, authorizing the
foundation and endowment of a college at Maynooth, in the neighborhood of Dublin, for the education
of Roman Catholics generally, whether destined for the Church or for lay professions. It is
a singular circumstance that the only opposition to the measure came from Grattan and his party,
who urged that, as the Roman Catholics had recently been allowed to matriculate and take degrees
at Trinity College, though not to share in the endowments of that wealthy institution, the
endowment of another college, to be exclusively confined to Roman Catholics, would be a retrograde
step, undoing the benefits of the recent concession of the authorities of Trinity; would be
"a revival and re-enactment of the principles of separation and exclusion," and an injury to
the whole community. For, as he wisely contended, nothing was so important to the well-doing
of the entire people as the extinction of the religious animosities which had hitherto embittered
the feelings of each Church toward the other, and nothing could so surely tend to that extinction
as the uniting the members of both from their earliest youth, in the pursuit both of knowledge
and amusement, as school-fellows and playmates. If Mr. Froude's interpretation of the motives
of those who influenced Grattan on this occasion be correct, he was unconsciously made a tool
of by those whose real object was a separation from England, of the attainment of which they
despaired, unless they could unite Protestants and Roman Catholics in its prosecution. The
bill, however, was passed by a very large majority, and £9000 a year was appropriated to the
endowment of the college. Half a century afterward, as will be seen, that endowment was enlarged,
and placed on a more solid and permanent footing, by one of the ablest of Pitt's successors.
It was a wise and just measure; and if its success has not entirely answered the expectations
of the minister who granted it, its comparative failure has been owing to circumstances which
the acutest judgment could not have foreseen.

But it seems certain that neither the concession nor the refusal of any demands put forward
by any party in Ireland could have prevented the insurrection which broke out shortly afterward.
There were two parties among the disaffected Irish--or it should, perhaps, rather be said that
two different objects were kept in view by them--one of which, the establishment of a republic,
was dearer to one section of the malcontents; separation from England, with the contingency
of annexation to France, was the more immediate aim of the other, though the present existence
of a republican form of government in France to a great extent united the two. As has been
mentioned before, the original movers in the conspiracy were of low extraction, Dublin tradesmen
in a small way of business. Napper Tandy was an ironmonger, Wolfe Tone was the son of a coach-maker.
But they had obtained a recruit of a very different class, a younger son of the Duke of Leinster,
Lord Edward Fitzgerald, a man of very slender capacity, who, at his first entrance into Parliament,
when scarcely more than of age, had made himself remarkable by a furious denunciation of Pitt's
Irish propositions; had married a natural daughter of the Duke of Orleans, a prince, in spite
of his royal birth, one of the most profligate and ferocious of the French Jacobins; and had
caught the revolutionary mania to such a degree that he abjured his nobility, and substituted
for the appellation which marked his rank the title of "Citizen Fitzgerald." He had enrolled
himself in a society known as the United Irishmen, and had gone to France, as its plenipotentiary,
to arrange with Hoche, one of the most brilliant and popular of the French generals, a scheme
for the invasion of Ireland, in which he promised him that, on his landing, he should be joined
by tens of thousands of armed Irishmen. Hoche entered warmly into the plan, was furnished with
a splendid army by the Directors, and in December, 1796, set sail for Ireland; but the fleet
which carried him was dispersed in a storm; many of the ships were wrecked, others were captured
by the British cruisers, and the remnant of the fleet, sadly crippled, was glad to regain its
harbors. Two years afterward another invading expedition had still worse fortune. General Humbert,
who in 1796 had been one of Hoche's officers, did succeed in effecting a landing at Killala
Bay, in Mayo; but he and the whole of his force was speedily surrounded, and compelled to surrender;
and a month afterward a large squadron, with a more powerful division of troops, under General
Hardy, on board, found itself unable to effect a landing, but fell in with a squadron under
Sir John Warren, who captured every ship but two; Wolfe Tone, who was on board one of them,
being taken prisoner, and only escaping the gallows by suicide.

This happened in October, 1798. But it is difficult to conceive with what object these last
expeditions had been despatched from France at all; for in the preceding summer the rebellion
of the Irish had broken out, and had been totally crushed in a few weeks;[136] not without
terrible loss of life on both sides, nor without the insurgent leaders--though many of them
were gentlemen of good birth, fortune, and education, and still more were clergy--showing a
ferocity and ingenuity in cruelty which the worst of the French Jacobins had scarcely exceeded;
one of the saddest circumstances of the whole rebellion being, that the insurgents, who had
burnt men, women, and children alive, who had deliberately hacked others to pieces against
whom they did not profess to have a single ground of complaint beyond the fact that they were
English and Protestant, found advocates in both Houses of the English Parliament, who declared
that the rebellion was owing to the severity of the Irish Viceroy and his chief councillors,
who denied that the rebels had solicited French aid, and who even voted against granting to
the government the re-enforcements necessary to prevent a revival of the treason.

The rebellion was crushed with such celerity as might have convinced the most disaffected of
the insanity of defying the power of Great Britain; but it was certain that the spirit which
prompted the rebellion was not extinguished, and that, as it had been fed before, so it would
continue to be fed by the factious spirit of members of the Irish House of Commons, and of
those who could return members,[137] so long as Ireland had a separate Parliament. Not, indeed,
that Pitt required the argument in favor of a Union which was thus furnished. The course adopted
by the Irish Parliament on the Regency question was quite sufficient to show how great a mistake
had been made by the repeal of Poynings' Act. But what the rebellion proved was, that the Union
would not admit of an instant's delay; and Pitt at once applied himself to the task of framing
a measure which, while it should strengthen England, by the removal of the necessity for a
constant watchfulness over every transaction and movement in Ireland, should at the same time
confer on and secure to Ireland substantial advantages, such as, without a Union, the English
Parliament could scarcely be induced to contemplate.

Mr. Hallam, in one of the last chapters of his work,[138] while showing by unanswerable arguments
the advantages which Scotland has derived from her Union with England, has also enumerated
some of the causes which impeded the minister of the day in his endeavors to render it acceptable
to the Scotch members to whom it was proposed. The most apparently substantial of these was
the unprecedented character of the measure. No past "experience of history was favorable to
the absorption of a lesser state, at least where the government partook so much of the republican
form, in one of superior power and ancient rivalry." But, in the case of the present measure,
what had thus been a difficulty in the Scotch Union might have been expected to be regarded
as an argument in its favor, since the keenest patriots among the Scotch had long been convinced
that the Union had brought a vast increase of prosperity and importance to their country, and
what was now confessed to have proved advantageous to Scotland might naturally be expected
to be equally beneficial to Ireland. Another obstacle had been the fear of the danger to which
the Presbyterian Church might be "exposed, when brought thus within the power of a Legislature
so frequently influenced by one which held her, not as a sister, but rather a bastard usurper
to a sister's inheritance." But here again experience might give her testimony in favor of
an Irish Union, since it was incontestable that those apprehensions--which, no doubt, many
earnest Scotchmen had sincerely entertained--had not been realized, but that since the Union
the Presbyterian Church had enjoyed as great security, as complete independence, and as absolute
an authority over its members as in the preceding century; that the Parliament had never attempted
the slightest interference with its exercise of its privileges, and that the Church of England
had been equally free from the exhibition of any desire to stimulate the Parliament to such
action; while the Roman Catholic Church, which had many more adherents in England than the
Presbyterian Church had ever had, was quite powerful enough to exact for itself the maintenance
of its rights, and the minister was quite willing to grant equal securities to those which,
at the beginning of the century, had been thought sufficient for the Church of Scotland. A
third reason which our great historical critic puts forward for the disfavor with which the
Union was at the time regarded by many high-minded Scotchmen, he finds in "the gross prostitution
with which a majority sold themselves to the surrender of their own legislative existence."
That similar means were to some extent employed to win over opponents of the government in
Ireland cannot, it must be confessed, be denied, though the temptations held out to converts
oftener took the shape of titles, promotions, appointments, and court favors than of actual
money. The most recent historian of this period--who, to say the least, is not biassed in favor
of either the English or Irish government of the period--pronounces as his opinion, formed
after the most careful research, that the bribery was on the other side. "Cornwallis and Castlereagh"
(the Lord-lieutenant and the Chief Secretary) "both declared it to be within their knowledge
that the Opposition offered four thousand pounds, ready money, for a vote. But they name only
one man who was purchased, and his vote was obtained for four thousand pounds. From the language
of Lord Cornwallis, it is certain that if money was spent by the government in this way it
was without his knowledge; but many things may have been done by the inferior agents of the
government, and possibly by Castlereagh himself, which they would not venture to lay before
the Lord-lieutenant. It appears, however, from the papers which have recently come to light,
that the prevalent belief of the Union having been mainly effected by a lavish expenditure
of money is not well-founded; still it is certain that some money was expended in this way."
Besides actual payment for votes, he adds that a very large sum--a hundred thousand pounds--is
said to have been expended in the purchase of seats, the holders of which were, of course,
to vote against the measure; and names Lord Downshire as subscribing £5000, Lord Lismore and
Mr. White £3000 each, while the government funds were chiefly expended "in engaging[139] young
barristers of the Four Courts to write for the Union." But, even if it were true that corruption
was employed to the very utmost extent that was ever alleged by the most vehement opponent
of the measure and of the government, it may be feared that very few of the last century Irishmen
would have been so shocked at it as to consider that fact an objection to the Union, especially,
it is sad and shameful to say, among the upper classes. The poorer classes, those who could
render no political service to a minister, as being consequently beneath official notice, were
unassailed by his temptations; but the demoralization of the men of rank and property was almost
universal, and few seats were disposed of, few votes were given, except in return for favors
granted, or out of discontent at favors refused. And it cannot be denied that the tendency
to political jobbery had not been diminished by the concessions of 1782, if, indeed, it may
not be said that the increased importance which those concessions had given to the Irish Parliament
had led the members of both Houses to place an increased value on their services. Certainly
no previous Lord-lieutenant had given such descriptions of the universality of the demands
made on him as were forwarded to the English government by those who held that office in the
sixteen years preceding the outbreak of the Rebellion.

It is remarkable that the transaction which, as has been said before, may be conceived to have
first forced on Pitt's mind the conviction of the absolute necessity of the Union--namely,
the course pursued by the Irish Parliament on the Regency Bill--bore a close resemblance to
that which, above all other considerations, had made the Scotch Union indispensable, namely,
the Act of Security passed by the Scottish Estates in 1703, which actually provided that, on
the decease of Queen Anne without issue, the Estates "should name her successor, but should
be debarred from choosing the admitted successor to the crown of England, unless such forms
of government were settled as should fully secure the religion, freedom, and trade of the Scottish
nation."[140] The Scotch Estates, therefore, had absolutely regarded the possible separation
of the two kingdoms as a contingency which might become not undesirable; and, though it was
too ticklish an argument to bring forward, it may very possibly have occurred to Pitt that
a similar vote of the Irish Parliament was not impossible. The claim which Grattan, following
Fox, had set up on behalf of the Prince of Wales, was one of an indefeasible right to the Regency;
and, as far as right by inheritance went, his claim to the crown, if, or whenever, a vacancy
should occur, was far less disputable. But, as has been mentioned in the last chapter, a question
had already been raised whether his Royal Highness had not forfeited his right to the succession,
and it was quite possible that that question might be renewed. The fact of the Prince's marriage
to a Roman Catholic was by this time generally accepted as certain; the birth of the Princess
Charlotte gave greater importance to the circumstance than it seemed to have while the Prince
remained childless; and, if the performance of the marriage ceremony should be legally proved,
and the English law courts should pronounce that the legal invalidity of the marriage did not
protect the Prince from the penalty of forfeiture, it was highly probable that the Irish Parliament
would take a different view--would refuse, in spite of the Bill of Rights, to regard marriage
with a Roman Catholic as a disqualification, but would recognize the Prince of Wales as King
of Ireland.

Several minor considerations, such as the desirableness of uniformity in the proceedings of
the two countries with respect to Money Bills, the Mutiny Act, and other arrangements of parliamentary
detail, all pointed the same way; and, on the whole, it may be said that scarcely any of the
opponents of the government measure were found to deny its expediency, especially as regarded
the interests of Great Britain. The objections which were made were urged on different grounds.
In the Irish House of Commons, a member who, though a young man, had already established a
very high reputation for professional skill as a barrister, for eloquence equally suited to
the Bar and to the Senate, and for sincere and incorruptible patriotism, Mr. Plunkett, took
upon himself to deny the competency of the Irish Parliament to pass a bill not only to extinguish
its own existence, but to prevent the birth of any future Parliament, and to declare that the
act, if it "should be passed," would be a mere nullity, and that no man in "Ireland would be
bound to obey it." And, in the English House of Commons, Mr. Grey may be thought to have adopted
something of the same view, when he proposed an amendment "to suspend all proceedings on the
subject till the sentiments of the people of Ireland respecting that measure could be ascertained."
He did not, of course, deny (he was speaking on the 21st of April, 1800) that the bill had
been passed by both Houses of the Irish Parliament by considerable majorities.[141] But he
contended that that Parliament did not speak the sentiments of the people; and, that being
the case, that its voice was of no authority. It is evident that all arguments founded on a
denial of the omnipotence of a Parliament, whether English or Irish, are invalid. The question
of that omnipotence, as has been seen in a former chapter, had been fully discussed when Mr.
Pitt's father denied the power of Parliament to tax the American Colonies; and that question
may fairly be regarded as having been settled at that time. It is equally clear that the denial
that, on any question whatever, the House of Commons must be taken to speak the sentiments
of the constituencies, whether the proposal of such question had been contemplated at the time
of their election or not, is the advancement of a doctrine wholly inconsistent with our parliamentary
constitution, and one which would practically be the parent of endless agitation and mischief.
To expect that the members could pronounce on no new question without a fresh reference to
their constituents, would be to reduce them from the position of representatives to that of
delegates; such as that of the members of the old States-general, in France, whose early decay
is attributed by the ablest political writers in no small degree to the dependence of the members
on their constituents for precise instructions. Another argument on which Mr. Grey insisted
with great earnestness is worth preserving, though subsequent inventions have destroyed its
force; he contended that the example of the Scotch Union did not, when properly considered,
afford any argument in favor of an Irish Union, from the difference of situation of the two
countries. Scotland was a part of the same island as England; "there was no physical impediment
to rapid and constant communication; the relative situation of the two countries was such that
the King himself could administer the executive government in both, and there was no occasion
for a separate establishment being kept up in each." But the sea lay between England and Ireland,
and the delays and sometimes difficulties which were thus interposed rendered it "necessary
that Ireland should have a separate government;" and he affirmed that "this was an insuperable
bar to a beneficial Union," quoting a saying of Lord Somers, that "if it were necessary to
preserve a separate executive government at Edinburgh after the Union, he would abandon the
measure." Mr. Grey even denied that the prosperity of Scotland since the Union was mainly attributable
to that measure. "It was not the Union; it was the adoption of a liberal policy, the application
of a proper remedy to the particular evils under which the country labored, that removed the
causes which had impeded the prosperity of Scotland." But this argument was clearly open to
the reply that the adoption of that liberal policy had been a direct effect of the Union, and
would have been impracticable without it, and was, therefore, a strong inducement to the adoption
of a similar Union with Ireland, where the existing evils were at least as great as those which,
a century before, had kept down Scotland. Another of his arguments has been remarkably falsified
by the event. With a boldness in putting forward what was manifestly, indeed avowedly, a party
objection, and which, as such, must be looked upon as somewhat singular, he found a reason
for resisting the addition of a hundred Irish members to the British House of Commons in the
probability that they would, as a general rule, be subservient to the minister. He instanced
"the uniform support which the members for Scotland had given to every act of ministers," and
saw in that example "reason to apprehend that the Irish members would become a no less regular
band of ministerial adherents." It would be superfluous to point out how entirely contrary
the result has been to the prediction.

It is, however, beside the purpose of this work to dwell on the arguments by which the minister
supported his proposal, or on those with which the Opposition resisted it, whether apparently
founded on practical considerations, such as those brought forward by Mr. Grey, or those of
a more sentimental character, which rested on the loss of national "dignity and honor," which,
it was assumed, would be the consequence of the measure. It seems desirable rather to explain
the principal conditions on which the Union was to be effected, as Pitt explained it to the
House of Commons in April, 1800. In the preceding year he had confined himself to moving a
series of resolutions in favor of the principle, which, though they were adopted by both Houses
in England, he did not at that time endeavor to carry farther, since in the Irish House of
Commons the utmost exertions of the government could only prevail by a single vote;[142] and
he naturally thought such a majority far too slender to justify his relying on it so far as
to proceed farther with a measure of such vast importance. But, during the recess, he had introduced
some modifications into his original draft of the measure, which, though slight, were sufficient
to conciliate much additional support; and the consequence was, that in February of this year
both the Irish Houses accepted it by sufficient majorities;[143] and, therefore, he now felt
able to lay the details of the measure before the English Parliament. To take them in the order
in which he enumerated them, that which had appeared to the Irish Parliament "the first and
most important, was the share which the Irish constituencies ought to have in the representation
of the House of Commons." On this point, "the Parliament of Ireland was of opinion that the
number of representatives for Ireland ought to be one hundred." And he was not disposed to
differ from the conclusion to which it had come. He regarded it, indeed, as "a matter of but
small importance whether the number of representatives from one part of the united empire were
greater or less. If they were enough to make known the local wants, to state the interests
and convey the sentiments of the part of the empire they represented, it would produce that
degree of general security which would be wanting in any vain attempt to obtain that degree
of theoretical perfection about which in modern times they had heard so much." He approved
of "the principle which had been laid down upon this part of the subject in the Parliament
of Ireland--a reference to the supposed population of the two countries, and to the proposed
rate of contribution. The proportion of contribution proposed to be established was seven and
a half for Great Britain, and one for Ireland; while in the proportion of population Great
Britain was to Ireland as two and a half or three to one;[144] so that the result, on a combination
of these two calculations, would be something more than five to one in favor of Great Britain,
which was about the proportion which it was proposed to establish between the representation
of the two countries." The principle of selection of the constituencies which had been adopted
he likewise considered most "equitable and satisfactory for Ireland. The plan proposed was,
that the members of the counties and the principal commercial cities should remain entire....
The remaining members were to be selected from those places which were the most considerable
in point of population and wealth.... This was the only plan which could be adopted without
trenching on the constitution; it introduced no theoretical reforms in the constitution or
in the representation of this country; it made no distinction between different parliamentary
rights, nor any alteration, even the slightest, in the internal forms of Parliament."

Another consideration which he had kept in mind in framing this measure was this: "By the laws
of England care had been taken to prevent the influence of the crown from becoming too great
by too many offices being held by members of Parliament." And Pitt had no doubt that there
would be a general feeling "that some provision ought to be made on this subject" in the arrangements
for the new Parliament. At present, among the representatives of the counties and great commercial
towns, whose seats were to be preserved in the new united Parliament, there were not above
five or six who held offices; and, though it was impossible to estimate the possible number
of place-holders with precision, he thought what would he most fair for him to propose would
be, that "no more than twenty of the Irish members should hold places, and that if it should
happen that a greater number did hold places during pleasure, then those who had last accepted
them should vacate their seats."

In the House of Peers he proposed that twenty-eight lords temporal of Ireland should have seats
in the united Parliament, who should be elected for life by the Peers of Ireland--an arrangement
which differed from that which, at the beginning of the century, had been adopted for the representative
Peers of Scotland; but he argued, and surely with great reason, that "the choice of Peers to
represent the Irish nobility for life was a mode that was more congenial to the general spirit
and system of a Peerage than that of their being septennially elected, as the nobility of Scotland
were." Of the spiritual Peers, four were to sit in rotation; to the lay Peers a farther privilege
was given, which the minister regarded as of considerable, and even constitutional importance.
By the articles of the Scotch Union, a Peer, if not chosen as a representative of the Peerage,
was not eligible as a candidate for the House of Commons in either England or Scotland. But
this bill "reserved a right to the Peers of Ireland who should not be elected to represent
their own Peerage, to be elected members of the House of Commons of the united Parliament of
Great Britain;" and Pitt urged that this was "a far better mode of treatment than had been
adopted for the nobility of Scotland; so that a nobleman of Ireland, if not representing his
own order, might be chosen as a legislator by a class of inferior rank, which he was so far
from regarding as improper, that he deemed it in a high degree advantageous to the empire,
analogous to the practice as well as friendly to the spirit of the British constitution." And
he enforced his argument by pointing out with honest pride the advantage which in that respect
the spirit and practice of our constitution gave to our nobility over the nobles of other countries.
"We know full well," he continued, "the advantage we have experienced from having in this House
those who, in the course of descent, as well as in hopes of merit, have had a prospect of sitting
in our House of Peers. Those, therefore, who object to this part of the arrangement" (for,
as he had previously mentioned, it had been made a subject not only of objection, but of ridicule)
"can only do so from the want of due attention to the true character of our constitution, one
of the great leading advantages of which is, that a person may for a long time be a member
of one branch of the Legislature, and have it in view to become a member of another branch
of it. This it is which constitutes the leading difference between the nobility of Great Britain
and those of other countries. With us they are permitted to have legislative power before they
arrive at their higher stations; and as they are, like all the rest of mankind, to be improved
by experience in the science of legislation as well as in every other science, our constitution
affords them that opportunity by their being eligible to seats in this House from the time
of their majority. This is one of those circumstances which arise frequently in practice, but
the advantages of which do not appear in theory till chance happens to cast them before us,
and makes them subjects of discussion. These are the shades of the British constitution in
which its latent beauties consist;" and he affirmed his conviction that this privilege would
prove "an advantage to the nobility of Ireland, and an improvement in the system of representation
in the House."

It will hardly be denied that the arrangement that the representative Peers of Ireland should
enjoy their seats for life did make it desirable that those who were not so elected to the
Upper House should be eligible as candidates for a place in the Lower House. Otherwise, those
who were not chosen as representatives of the peerage would have been placed in the anomalous
and unfair position of being the only persons in the kingdom possessed of the requisite property
qualification, and not disqualified by sex or profession, who were absolutely excluded from
the opportunity of distinguishing themselves and serving their country in Parliament. How great
the practical benefit to the House of Commons and the country the clause he was recommending
was calculated to confer, was shown in a remarkable manner the very year of his death, when
an Irish Peer was returned to the House of Commons, who, retaining his seat for nearly sixty
years as the representative of different constituencies, the University of Cambridge being
among the number, during the course of that period rose through a variety of offices to that
of Prime-minister, and, as is admitted even by those who dissented most widely from some of
his opinions and actions, earned for himself an honorable reputation, as one who had rendered
faithful services to the crown, and on more than one occasion had conferred substantial benefits
on the country.

The arrangements proposed with respect to the Peers were not opposed. But Mr. Grey--generally
acting as the spokesman of the Opposition on this question--raised an objection to making so
large an addition as that of one hundred new members to the British House of Commons. He repeated
his prophecy, made on a previous occasion, of the subserviency to the minister which the Irish
members might be expected to exhibit, and therefore moved an amendment to reduce the number
of Irish representatives to eighty-five; but, to obviate the discontent which such a reduction
might be expected to excite in Ireland, he proposed to diminish the number of English members
also, by disfranchising forty "of the most decayed boroughs," a step which would leave the
number of members in the new united Parliament as nearly as possible the same as it was before.
He found, however, very few to agree with him; his amendment was rejected by 176 to 34; and
the minister's proposal was adopted in all its details.

Mr. Pitt touched lightly on the next article, which limited the royal prerogative of creating
Peers by a provision that the King should never confer any fresh Irish peerage till three peerages
should have become extinct. This, again, was a point of difference between the conditions of
the Scotch and Irish Unions; since by the terms of the Scotch Union the King was forever debarred
from creating any new Scotch peerages. But it was pointed out that the greater antiquity of
the Scotch peerages, and the circumstance that in Scotland the titles descended to collateral
branches, were calculated to make the extinction of a Scotch peerage an event of very rare
occurrence; while the comparative newness (with very few exceptions) of Irish peerages, and
the rule by which they are "confined to immediate male descendants," rendered the entire extinction
of the Irish peerage probable, "if the power of adding to or making up the number were not
given to the crown."

Recent legislation has given such importance to the next resolution, that it will be well to
quote his precise words:

"5. That it would be fit to propose, as the fifth article of union, that the Churches of that
part of Great Britain called England and of Ireland shall be united into one Church; and that
when his Majesty shall summon a Convocation, the archbishops, bishops, and clergy of the several
provinces in Ireland shall be respectively summoned to and sit in the Convocation of the united
Church, in the like manner and subject to the same regulations as to election and qualification
as are at present by law established with respect to the like orders of the Church of England;
and that the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government of the said united Church shall
be preserved as now by law established for the Church of England, saving to the Church of Ireland
all the rights, privileges, and jurisdictions now thereunto belonging; and that the doctrine,
worship, discipline, and government of the Church of Scotland shall likewise be preserved as
now by law, and by the Act of Union established for the Church of Scotland; and that the continuance
and preservation forever of the said united Church, as the Established Church, of that part
of the said United Kingdom called England and Ireland, shall be deemed and taken to be an essential
and fundamental article and condition of the Union."

Pitt's comment on this article was so brief as to show that he regarded its justice as well
as its importance too obvious to need any elaborate justification. He pointed out that that
portion of it which related to Convocation had been added by the Irish Parliament, and "would
only say on so interesting a subject that the prosperity of the Irish Church could never be
permanent, unless it were a part of the Union, to leave as a guard a power to the United Parliament
to make some provision in this respect as a fence beyond any act of their own that could at
present be agreed on." But, while he thus showed his conviction that the permanent prosperity
of the Irish Church was essential to the welfare of the kingdom, he was by no means insensible
to the claims of the Roman Catholic Church (as founded not more in policy than in justice)
to be placed in some degree on a footing of equality with it; not only by a recognition of
the dignity of its ministers, but also by an endowment which should be proportioned to their
requirements, and should place them in a position of worldly competence and comfort for which
hitherto they had been dependent on their flocks.[145] To use the expression of a modern statesman,
he contemplated "levelling up," not "levelling down." Perhaps it may be said that he contemplated
levelling up, as the surest and most permanent obstacle to any proposal of levelling down.

At the same time it is fair to remark, that the argument which on a recent occasion was so
strongly pressed by the champions of the Church, that it was beyond the power of Parliament
to repeal what was here declared to be "an essential and fundamental article and condition
of the Union," is untenable, on every consideration of the power of Parliament, and, indeed,
of common-sense; since it would be an intolerable evil, and one productive of the worst consequences,
if the doctrine were admitted that any Parliament could make an unchangeable law and bind its
successors forever; and, moreover, since the very words of this article do clearly imply the
power of Parliament over the Church, the power asserted, to "make some provision for the permanence
of its prosperity," clearly involving a power to make provisions of an opposite character.
The expediency or impolicy, the propriety or unrighteousness, of a measure must always depend
on the merits of the question itself at the time, and not on the judgment or intentions of
legislators of an earlier generation. And advocates weaken instead of strengthening their case
when they put forward arguments which, however plausible or acceptable to their own partisans,
are, nevertheless, capable of refutation.

The next article related to a question of paramount practical importance, and of special interest,
since, as has been seen before, there was no subject on which the past legislation of the English
Parliament had been so discreditable. But the jealousy of English manufacturers, though it
had prevailed over the indifference of William III., who reserved all his solicitude for matters
of foreign diplomacy, could find no echo in the large mind and sound commercial and financial
knowledge of the modern statesman. He laid it down as the principle of his legislation on this
subject--a principle which "he was sure that every gentleman in the House was ready to admit--that
the consequence of the Union ought to be a perfect freedom of trade, whether of produce or
manufacture, without exception, if possible; that a deviation from that principle ought to
be made only when adhering to it might possibly shake some large capital, or materially diminish
the effect of the labor of the inhabitants, or suddenly and violently shock the received opinion
or popular prejudices of a large portion of the people; but that, on the whole, the communication
between the two kingdoms should in spirit be free; that no jealousy should be attempted to
be created between the manufacturers of one place or the other upon the subject of 'raw materials'
or any other article; for it would surely be considered very narrow policy, and as such would
be treated with derision, were an attempt made to create a jealousy between Devonshire and
Cornwall, between Lancashire and Durham.... He said, then, that the principle of the Union
on this head should be liberal and free, and that no departure from it should ever take place
but upon some point of present unavoidable necessity." He was even able to add (and he must
have felt peculiar satisfaction in making the statement, since the change in the feelings of
the English manufacturers on the subject must have been mainly the fruit of his own teaching,
and was a practical recognition of the benefits which they had derived from his commercial
policy taken as a whole), that "the English manufacturers did not wish for any protective duties;
all they desired was free intercourse with all the world; and, though the want of protective
duties might occasion them partial loss, they thought it amply compensated by the general advantage."
He even thought the arrangements now to be made "would encourage the growth of wool in Ireland,
and that England would be able to draw supplies of it from thence; and he did not fear that
there would be trade enough for both countries in the markets of the world, and in the market
which each country would afford to the other." The English manufacturers did not, however,
acquiesce very cheerfully in every part of his commercial arrangements. On the contrary, against
the clause which repealed all prohibitions of or bounties on exportation of different articles
grown or manufactured in either country, they petitioned, and even set up a claim, which was
granted, to be heard by counsel and to produce witnesses. But Pitt steadily refused the least
modification of this part of his measure, not merely on account of its intrinsic reasonableness
and justice, but because there was scarcely any condition to which the Irish themselves attached
greater importance.

An equally important and more difficult matter to adjust to the satisfaction of both Parliaments
was the apportionment of the financial burdens between the two nations. It would be tiresome
as well as superfluous to enter into minute details; the more so as the arrangement proposed
was of a temporary character. After a long and minute discussion, Pitt's appraisement was admitted
to come as near to strict fairness and equity as any that could be made; the separate discharge
of its public debt already incurred was left to each kingdom; and it was farther settled that
for twenty years fifteen parts of the expense of the nation out of seventeen should be borne
by Great Britain and two by Ireland.

Other articles provided that the laws and courts of both kingdoms, civil and ecclesiastical,
should remain in their existing condition, subject, of course, to such alterations as the united
Legislature might hereafter deem desirable.

The resolutions, when adopted--as they speedily were--were embodied in a bill, which passed
through the last stage by receiving the royal assent at the beginning of July. The state of
public feeling in Ireland was not yet sufficiently calmed down after the Rebellion for it to
be prudent to venture on a general election, and it was, consequently, ordained that the members
for the Irish counties and for those Irish boroughs which had been selected for the retention
of representation should take their seats in the united Parliament on its next meeting. On
the 22d of January, 1801, the united, or, to give it its more proper designation, the Imperial
Parliament held its first meeting, being, although in its sixth session, so far regarded as
a new Parliament, that the King directed a fresh election of a Speaker.

The Union, as thus effected, was so far a vital change in the constitution of both Great Britain
and Ireland, that it greatly altered the situation in which each kingdom had previously stood
to the other. Till 1782 the position of Ireland toward England had been one of entire political
subordination; and, though that had in appearance been modified by the repeal of Poynings'
Act, yet no one doubted or could doubt that, whenever the resolutions of the two Parliaments
came into conflict, the Irish Parliament would find submission unavoidable. But by the Union
that subordination was terminated forever. The character of the Union--of the conditions, that
is, on which the two countries were united--was one of perfect and complete equality on all
important points, indeed, in all matters whatever, except one or two of minor consequence,
where some irremovable difference between them compelled some trifling variations. It was not
a connection of domination on the one side and subordination on the other, where every concomitant
circumstance might tempt the one to overbearing arrogance, while the other could not escape
a feeling of humiliation. It was rather--to quote the eloquent peroration of Pitt, when, in
the preceding year, he first introduced the subject to the consideration of the House of Commons--"a
free and voluntary association of two great countries, joining for their common benefit in
one empire, where each retained its proportionate weight and importance, under the security
of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseparable interests; and which wanted nothing but
that indissoluble connection to render both invincible."

On that occasion Pitt had argued, from the great subsequent increase in the population and
wealth of Edinburgh and Glasgow, and in the prosperity of the whole country of Scotland, that
a similar result might be looked for in Ireland. And the general trade of Ireland, and especially
the linen manufacture, within a very few years began to realize his prediction. So that it
is strange to find Fox, on the great minister's death, five years afterward, reiterating his
disapproval of the Union as a plea for refusing him the appellation of a great statesman.[146]
In one point alone the intrigues of a colleague prevented Pitt from carrying out to the full
his liberal and enlightened views, and compelled him to leave the Union incomplete in a matter
of such pre-eminent importance, that it may be said that all the subsequent disquietudes which
have prevented Ireland from reaping the full benefit he desired from the Union are traceable
to his disappointment on that subject.[147] We have seen that he contemplated, as a natural
and necessary consequence or even part of the Union, an extensive reform of the laws affecting
the Roman Catholics. Indeed, the understanding that he was prepared to introduce a measure
with that object had no small weight in conciliating in some quarters support to the Act of
Union. Accordingly, when describing the arrangements which he had in view for the Church of
Ireland, he indicated his intention with sufficient plainness by the statement, that "it might
be proper to leave to Parliament an opportunity of considering what might be fit to be done
for his Majesty's Catholic subjects;" words which were generally understood to express his
feeling, that both justice and policy required the removal of the restrictions which debarred
the Roman Catholics from the complete enjoyment of political privileges. But the history and
different bearings of that question it will be more convenient to discuss in a subsequent chapter,
when we shall have arrived at the time when it was partially dealt with by the ministry of
the Duke of Wellington.

Notes:

[Footnote 125: Mr. Froude says four great families--the Fitzgeralds of Kildare, the Boyles,
the Ponsonbys, and the Beresfords--returned a majority of the House of Commons ("English in
Ireland," ii., 5); and besides those peers, the arrangement for the Union proved that the influence
of the Loftuses and the Hills fell little short of them.]

[Footnote 126: Such a system actually had existed in France, where articles of ordinary trade
could not be transported from one province to another without payment of a heavy duty; but
Colbert had abolished that system in France above one hundred years before the time of which
we are speaking.]

[Footnote 127: "History of England," vol. v., c. xxiii., p. 57.]

[Footnote 128: "The English in Ireland," ii., 39.]

[Footnote 129: Fronde's "English in Ireland," ii., 345. He does not name the author whom he
quotes.]

[Footnote 130: Ibid., ii, 42.]

[Footnote 131: See p. 164.]

[Footnote 132: Mr. Froude imputes to Grattan a singularly base object. "Far from Grattan was
a desire to heal the real sores of the country for which he was so zealous. These wild, disordered
elements suited better for the campaign in which he engaged of renovating an Irish nationality."--English
in Ireland, ii., 448. But, however on many points we may see reason to agree with Mr. Froude's
estimate of the superior wisdom of Fitzgibbon, we conceive that this opinion is quite consistent
with our acquittal of the other of the meanness of deliberately aiming at a continuance of
evils, in order to find in them food for a continuance of agitation.]

[Footnote 133: Froude, "English in Ireland," i., 304.]

[Footnote 134: See especially a letter of Mr. Windham's. quoted by Lord Stanhope ("Life of
Pitt," ii., 288).]

[Footnote 135: Mr. Archdall, in his place in Parliament, denounced the term as utterly inapplicable.
"Emancipation meant that a slave was set free. The Catholics were not slaves. Nothing more
absurd had ever been said since language was first abused for the delusion of mankind."]

[Footnote 136: The first beginning of the insurrection was at Prosperous, County Kildare, May
24. General Lake dealt it the final blow on Vinegar Hill, June 21.]

[Footnote 137: Mr. Sheridan, Mr. Tierney, and Lord William Russell led the denunciations of
the government in the English House of Commons. A protest against Pitt's refusal to dismiss
the Lord-lieutenant, Lord Camden, the Chancellor Fitzgibbon, and the Commander-in-chief, Lord
Carhampton, was signed by the Dukes of Norfolk, Devonshire, and Leinster; Lords Fitzwilliam,
Moira, and Ponsonby, "two of them Irish absentees, who were discharging thus their duties to
the poor country which supported their idle magnificence."--The English in Ireland, iii., 454.]

[Footnote 138: "Constitutional History," iii., 451 seq.]

[Footnote 139: Massey's "History of England," iv., 397 (quoting the Cornwallis correspondence).]

[Footnote 140: Lord Stanhope's "Reign of Queen Anne," p. 89.]

[Footnote 141: In the House of Commons by 158 to 115; in the House of Lords, February 10, by
75 to 26.]

[Footnote 142: An amendment pledging the House to maintain "an independent Legislature, as
established in 1782," was only defeated by 106 to 105.]

[Footnote 143: In the House of Commons the majority was 158 to 115; in the House of Lords,
75 to 26.]

[Footnote 144: This estimate, which was but a guess, proved very inaccurate. The first census
for the United Kingdom, which was taken the next year (1801), showed that Ireland was considerably
more populous than its own representatives had imagined. The numbers returned (as given by
Alison, "History of Europe," ii., 335, c. ix., sec. 8) were:

  England..................................... 8,382,484
  Wales.......................................   547,346
  Scotland.................................... 1,599,068
  Army, Navy, etc.............................   470,586
                                              ----------
      Total...................................10,999,434
  Ireland..................................... 5,396,436

So that the proportion of population in Great Britain, as compared with that of Ireland, only
exceeded two to one by an insignificant fraction.]

[Footnote 145: See his letter to the King, dated January 31, 1801, quoted by Lord Stanhope
in the appendix to vol. iii. of his "Life of Pitt," p. 25.]

[Footnote 146: Mr. Fox, called on by Mr. Alexander to explain his expressions (in the debate
relative to Mr. Pitt's funeral), by which he had declared his disapprobation of the Union,
and his concurrence in opinion with Mr. O'Hara that it ought to be rescinded. Mr. Fox repeated
his disapprobation, but disclaimed ever having expressed an opinion or entertained a thought
of proposing its repeal, that being now impracticable, though he regretted its ever having
been effected.--Diary of Lord Colchester, February 17, 1806, ii., 39.]

[Footnote 147: It may be remarked that in another respect also political critics have pronounced
the Union defective. Archbishop Whately, whose long tenure of office in Ireland, as well as
the acuteness and candor which he brought to bear on every subject he discussed, entitle his
opinions to most respectful consideration, held this view very strongly. In several conversations
which he held with Mr. W.N. Senior, in 1858 and 1862, he condemned the retention of the Lord-lieutenancy
as "a half measure," which, however unavoidable at the time when "no ship could be certain
of getting from Holyhead to Dublin in less than three weeks," he pronounced "inconsistent with
the fusion of the two peoples, which was the object of the Union," and wholly indefeasible
"in an age of steam-vessels and telegraphs." And, besides its theoretical inconsistency, he
insisted that it produced many great and practical mischiefs, among which he placed in the
front "the keeping up in people's minds the notion of a separate kingdom; the affording a hotbed
of faction and intrigue; the presenting an image of Majesty so faint and so feeble as to be
laughed at and scorned. Disaffection to the English Lieutenancy is cheaply shown, and it paves
the way toward disaffection to the English crown." And he imputed its continued retention to
"the ignorance which prevails in England of the state of feeling in Ireland."--Journals and
Conversations Relating to Ireland, by W.N. Senior, ii., 130, 251, and passim. And it is worthy
of observation that a similar view is expressed by a Scotch writer of great ability, who, contrasting
the mode in which Scotland is governed with that which prevails In Ireland, farther denounces
the Viceroyalty "as a distinct mark that Ireland is not directly under the sovereignty of Great
Britain, but rather a dependency, like India or the Isle of Man."--Ireland, by J.B. Kinnear,
quoted in the Fortnightly Review, April 1, 1881. It is remarkable that in 1850 a bill for the
abolition of the office was passed in the House of Commons by a large majority (295 to 70),
but was dropped in the House of Lords, chiefly on account of the opposition of the Duke of
Wellington. But it is, at all events, plain that the reasons, arising from the difficulty and
uncertainty of communication, which made its abolition impossible at the beginning of the century,
have passed away with the introduction of steam-vessels and telegraphs.

The Union with Ireland was the last great work of Pitt's first administration, and a noble
close to the legislation of the eighteenth century. But the last months of the year were also
signalized by another enactment, which, though it cannot be said to have anything of a character
strictly entitled to the name of constitutional, nevertheless established a practice so valuable
as the foundation of a great part of our domestic legislation, that it will, perhaps, hardly
be considered foreign to the scope and purpose of this volume to record its commencement. In
November, 1800, Mr. Abbott, the member for Helstone, brought in a bill to take a census of
the people of the United Kingdom, pointing out not only the general importance of a knowledge
of the population of a country in its entire amount and its different classes to every government,
but also its special bearing on agriculture and on the means requisite to provide subsistence
for the people, on trade and manufactures, and on our resources for war. Such a census as he
proposed had been more than once taken in Holland, Sweden, Spain, and even in the United States,
young as was their separate national existence; it had been taken once--nearly fifty years
previous--in Scotland; and something like one had been furnished in England in the reign of
Edward III. by a subsidy roll, and in that of Elizabeth by diocesan returns furnished by the
Bishops to the Privy Council.[148] He farther argued for the necessity of such a proceeding
from the different notions entertained by men of sanguine or desponding tempers as to the increase
or diminution of the population. "Some desponding men had asserted that the population had
decreased by a million and a half between the Revolution and Peace of Paris, in 1763; others
(of whom the speaker himself was one) believed that, on the contrary, it had increased in that
interval by two millions." His motion was unanimously adopted by both Houses; and when the
census was taken, its real result furnished as strong a proof of its usefulness as any of the
mover's arguments, by the extent of the prevailing miscalculations which it detected. For Mr.
Abbott, who had spared no pains to arrive at a correct estimate, while he mentioned that some
persons reckoned the population of England and Wales at 8,000,000, pronounced that, according
to other statements, formed on a more extensive investigation, and, as it seemed to him, on
a more correct train of reasoning, the total number could not be less than 11,000,000. In point
of fact, excluding those employed in the army and navy, who were nearly half a million, the
number for England and Wales fell short of nine millions.[149] It would be quite superfluous
to dilate on the value of the information thus supplied, without which, indeed, much of our
subsequent legislation on poor-laws, corn-laws, and all matters relating to rating and taxation,
would have been impracticable or the merest guesswork.

As was mentioned in the preceding chapter, Pitt found himself unable to fulfil the hopes which,
in his negotiations with different parties in Ireland, he had led the Roman Catholics to entertain
of the removal of their civil and political disabilities. So rigorous were those restrictions,
both in England and Ireland, that a Roman Catholic could not serve even as a private in the
militia; and a motion made in 1797 by Mr. Wilberforce--a man who could certainly not be suspected
of any leaning to Roman Catholic doctrine--to render them admissible to that service, though
it was adopted in the House of Commons, was rejected by the House of Lords. But Pitt, who on
that occasion had supported Wilberforce, did not confine his views to the removal of a single
petty disability, but proposed to put the whole body of Roman Catholics on a footing of perfect
equality with Protestants in respect of their eligibility to every kind of office, with one
or two exceptions. And during the autumn of 1800 he was busily engaged in framing the details
of his measure, in order to submit it to his royal master in its entirety, and so to avoid
disquieting him with a repetition of discussions on the subject, which he knew to be distasteful
to him. For, five years before, George III. had consulted the Chief-justice, Lord Kenyon, and
the Attorney-general, Sir John Scott (afterward Lord Eldon), on the question whether some proposed
concessions to Dissenters, Protestant as well as Roman Catholic, did not "militate against
the coronation oath and many existing statutes;" and had received their legal opinion that
the tests enacted in the reign of Charles II., "though wise laws, and in policy not to be departed
from, might be repealed or altered without any breach of the coronation oath or Act of Union"
(with Scotland).[150] Their opinions on the point were the more valuable, since they were notoriously
opposed to their political convictions, and might be supposed to have carried sufficient conviction
to the royal mind. But his Majesty's scruples were now, unfortunately, revived by the Lord
Chancellor, who, strange to say, was himself a Presbyterian; and who treacherously availed
himself of his knowledge of what was in contemplation to anticipate the Prime-minister's intended
explanations to the King. He fully succeeded in his object of fixing the King's resolution
to refuse his assent to the contemplated concessions (which, by a curious confusion of ideas,
his Majesty even characterized as "Jacobinical"[151]), though not in the object which he had
still more at heart, of inducing the King to regard him as the statesman in the whole kingdom
the most deserving of his confidence. The merits of the question will be more appropriately
examined hereafter. It is sufficient to say here that Pitt, conceiving himself bound by personal
honor as well as by statesman-like duty to persevere in his intended measure, or to retire
from an office which no man is justified in holding unless he can discharge its functions in
accordance with his own judgment of what is required by the best interests of the state, resigned
his post, and was succeeded by Mr. Addington.

Addington's ministry was made memorable by the formation of the Northern Confederacy against
us, and its immediate and total overthrow by Nelson's cannon; and for the Peace of Amiens,
severely criticised in Parliament, as that of Utrecht and every subsequent treaty with a similar
object had been, but defensible both on grounds of domestic policy, as well as on that of affording
us a much-needed respite from the strain of war; though it proved to be only a respite, and
a feverish one, since at the end of two years the war was renewed, to be waged with greater
fury than ever. But it was too short-lived for any constitutional questions to arise in it.
And when, in 1804, Pitt resumed the government, his attention was too completely engrossed
by the diplomatic arrangements by which he hoped to unite all the nations east of the Rhine
in resistance to a power whose ever aggressive ambition was a standing menace to every Continental
kingdom, for him to be able to spare time for the consideration of measures of domestic policy,
except such as were of a financial character. But, though his premature death rendered his
second administration shorter than even Addington's, it was not wholly unproductive of questions
of constitutional interest. It witnessed a recurrence to that which cannot but be regarded
as among the most important privileges of the House of Commons, the right of impeaching a minister
for maladministration. A report of a commission appointed for the investigation of the naval
affairs of the kingdom had revealed to Parliament a gross misapplication of the public money
committed by the Paymaster of the Navy. And, as that officer could not have offended as he
had done without either gross carelessness or culpable connivance on the part of the Treasurer
of the Navy, Lord Melville, who had since been promoted to the post of First Lord of the Admiralty,
the House of Commons ordered his impeachment at the Bar of the House of Lords; the vote being
passed in 1805, during Pitt's administration, though the trial did not take place till the
year following. In reality, the charge did not impugn Lord Melville's personal honor, on which
at first sight it appeared to press hardly, Mr. Whitbread himself, the member for Bedford,
who was the chief promoter and manager of the impeachment, admitting that he never imputed
to Lord Melville "any participation in the plunder of the public;" and, as Lord Melville was
acquitted on every one of the charges brought against him, the case might have been passed
over here with the barest mention of it, were it not that Lord Campbell has pointed out the
mode of procedure as differing from that adopted in the great trial of Warren Hastings, twenty
years before; and, by reason of that difference, forming a model for future proceedings of
the same kind, if, unhappily, there should ever be occasion given for a similar prosecution.
The credit of the difference Lord Campbell gives to the Chancellor, Lord Erskine, who, "instead
of allowing the House of Lords to sit to hear the case a few days in a year, and, when sitting,
being converted from a court of justice into a theatre for rhetorical display, insisted that
it should sit, like every other criminal tribunal, de die in diem, till the verdict was delivered.
And he enforced both upon the managers of the House of Commons and on the counsel for the defendant
the wholesome rules of procedure established for the detection of crime and the protection
of innocence."[152] It is well known that on the trial of Hastings the managers of that impeachment,
and most especially Burke, claimed a right of giving evidence such as no court of law would
have admitted, and set up what they entitled "a usage of Parliament independent of and contradistinguished
from the common law."[153] But on that occasion Lord Thurlow, then Chancellor, utterly denied
the existence of any such usage--a usage which, "in times of barbarism, when to impeach a man
was to ruin him by the strong hand of power, was quoted in order to justify the most arbitrary
proceedings." He instanced the trial of Lord Stafford, as one which "was from beginning to
end marked by violence and injustice," and expressed a "hope that in these enlightened days
no man would be tried but by the law of the land." We may fairly agree with Lord Campbell,
that it is to be hoped that the course adopted by Lord Erskine in this case has settled the
principle and mode of procedure for all future time; since certainly the importance of an impeachment,
both as to the state interests involved in it, and the high position and authority of the defendant,
ought to be considered as reasons for adhering with the greatest closeness to the strict rules
of law, rather than for relaxing them in any particular.

But, as was natural, the public could spare little attention for anything except the war, and
the arrangements made by the minister for engaging in it with effect; the interest which such
a state of things always kindles being in this instance greatly inflamed by Napoleon's avowal
of a design to invade the kingdom, though it is now known that the preparations of which he
made such a parade were merely a feint to throw Austria off her guard.[154] During Addington's
administration Pitt had spoken warmly in favor of giving every possible encouragement to the
Volunteer movement, and also in support of a proposal made by an independent member, Colonel
Crawford, to fortify London; and one of his first measures after his resumption of office was
a measure, known as the Additional Force Bill, to transfer a large portion of the militia to
the regular army. It was so purely a measure of detail, that it would hardly have been necessary
to mention it, had it not been for an objection made to it by the Prime-minister's former colleague,
Lord Grenville, and for the reply with which that objection was encountered by the Chief-justice,
Lord Ellenborough; the former denouncing it as unconstitutional, since, he declared, it tended
to establish a large standing army in time of peace; and Lord Ellenborough, on the other hand,
declaring the right of the crown to call out the whole population in arms for the defence of
the realm to be so "radical, essential, and hitherto never questioned part of the royal prerogative,
that, even in such an age of adventurous propositions, he had not expected that any lord would
have ventured to question it."[155]

Pitt died in the beginning of 1806, and was succeeded by an administration of which his great
rival, Fox, was the guiding spirit while he lived, though Lord Grenville was First Lord of
the Treasury, and, after Fox's death, which took place in September, the undisputed Prime-minister.
But the formation of the administration was not completed without a step which was at once
strongly denounced, not only by the regular Opposition, but by several members of political
moderation, as a violation, if not of the letter, at least of the spirit, of the constitution,
the introduction of the Lord Chief-justice, Lord Ellenborough, into the cabinet. It was notorious
that he was invited to a seat among that body as the representative of a small party, the personal
friends of Lord Sidmouth. For the ministry was formed in some degree on the principle of a
coalition; Lord Grenville himself having been a colleague of Pitt throughout the greater part
of that statesman's first ministry, and as such having been always opposed to Fox; while Lord
Ellenborough had been Attorney-general in Addington's administration, which avowedly only differed
from Pitt on the single subject of the Catholic question.

The appointment was at once made the subject of motions in both Houses of Parliament. In the
House of Lords, Lord Bristol, who brought the question forward, denounced "this identification
of a judge with the executive government as injurious to the judicial character, subversive
of the liberty of the people, and having a direct and alarming tendency to blend and amalgamate
those great elementary principles of political power which it is the very object of a free
constitution to keep separate and distinct." In the House of Commons, Mr. Canning took a similar
objection; and, though he admitted that a precedent for the act might be found in the case
of Lord Mansfield who, while Chief-justice, had also been a cabinet minister in the administration
of 1757, he argued forcibly that that precedent turned against the ministry and the present
appointment, because Lord Mansfield himself had subsequently admitted that "he had infringed
the principles of the constitution by acting as a cabinet minister and Chief-justice at the
same time." Fox, in reply, relied principally on two arguments. The first was, that "he had
never heard of such a thing as the cabinet council becoming the subject of a debate in that
House. He had never known of the exercise of the King's prerogative in the appointment of his
ministers being brought into question on such grounds as had now been alleged." The second,
that "in point of fact there is nothing in the constitution that recognizes any such institution
as a cabinet council; that it is a body unknown to the law, and one which has in no instance
whatever been recognized by Parliament." He farther urged that as Lord Ellenborough was a privy
councillor, and as the cabinet is only a select committee of the Privy Council, he was, "in
fact, as liable to be summoned to attend the cabinet, as a privy councillor, as he was in his
present situation."

The last argument was beneath the speaker to use, since not one of his hearers was ignorant
that no member of the Privy Council unconnected with the government ever is summoned to the
deliberations of the cabinet; and though, as he correctly stated, "there is no legal record
of the members comprising any cabinet," it may safely be affirmed that since July, 1714, when
the Duke of Argyll and the Duke of Somerset claimed admission to the deliberations of the ministers,
on account of the danger in which the Queen lay, though they admitted that they had received
no summons to attend,[156] there has been no instance of any privy councillor attending without
a summons; nor, except at the accession of a new sovereign, of summonses being sent to any
members of the council except the actual ministers. The second argument was even worse, as
being still more sophistical. It might be true that no law nor statute recognized the cabinet
as a body distinct from the Privy Council, but it was at least equally true that there was
no one who was ignorant of the distinction; that it was, in truth, one without which it would
be difficult to understand the organization or working of any ministry. The indispensable function
and privilege of a ministry is, to deliberate in concert and in private on the measures to
be taken for the welfare of the state; but there could be little chance of concert, and certainly
none of privacy, if every one who has ever been sworn a member of the Privy Council had a right
to attend all its deliberations. Again, to say that the King's prerogative, as exercised in
the choice of his advisers, is a thing so sacred that no abuse of it, or want of judgment shown
in its exercise, can warrant a complaint, is inconsistent with every principle of constitutional
government, and with every conceivable idea of the privileges of Parliament. In fact, Parliament
has claimed a right to interfere in matters apparently touching more nearly the royal prerogative,
and it is only in the reign preceding the present reign that hostile comments have been made
in Parliament on the appointment of a particular person as ambassador to a foreign power. Yet
the post of ambassador is one which might have been supposed to have been farther removed from
the supervision of Parliament than that of a minister, an ambassador being in a special degree
the personal representative of the sovereign, and the sovereign therefore, having, it might
be supposed, a right to a most unfettered choice in such a matter.

Stripped of all technicalities, and even of all reference to the manifest possibility of such
a circumstance arising as that the Chief-justice, if a member of a cabinet, may have a share
in ordering the institution of a prosecution which, as a judge, it may be his lot to try, one
consideration which is undeniable is, that a member of a cabinet is of necessity, and by the
very nature of his position in it, a party man, and that it is of preeminent importance to
the impartiality of the judicial bench, and to the confidence of the people in the purity,
integrity, and freedom from political bias of their decisions, that the judges should be exempt
from all suspicion of party connection. Lord Campbell even goes the length of saying, what
was not urged on either side of either House in these debates, that it was alleged by at least
one contemporary writer that Lord Mansfield's position in the cabinet did perceptibly influence
some of his views and measures respecting the Press;[157] and, though in both Houses the ministry
had a majority on the question of the propriety of the appointment, he records his own opinion[158]
that "the argument was all on the losing side;" and that Mr. Fox showed his consciousness that
it was so by his "concession that the Chief-justice should absent himself from the cabinet
when the expediency of commencing prosecutions for treason or sedition was to be discussed."
He adds, also, that "it is said that Lord Ellenborough himself ere long changed his opinion,
and, to his intimate friends, expressed deep regret that he had ever been prevailed upon to
enter the cabinet."

But, if the composition of the cabinet of 1806 has in this respect been generally condemned,
on the other hand the annals of that ministry, short-lived as it was, are marked by the enactment
of one great measure which has been stamped with universal approbation. It may, perhaps, be
said that the existence, promotion, discouragement, or suppression of a branch of trade has
no title to be regarded as a constitutional question. But the course which the British Parliament,
after a long period of hesitation, has adopted respecting, not only the slave-trade, but the
employment of slave-labor in any part of the British dominions, is so intimately connected
with the great constitutional principle, that every man, whatever be his race or nation or
previous condition, whose foot is once planted on British soil, is free from that moment, that
it cannot be accounted a digression to mention the subject here. To our statesmen of Queen
Anne's time traffic in slaves was so far from being considered discreditable, that the ministry
of that reign prided themselves greatly on what was called the Assiento Treaty with Spain,
by which they secured for the British merchants and ship-owners the privilege of supplying
the West India Islands with several thousand slaves a year. In 1748 the ministers of George
II were equally jealous of the credit of renewing it. It had even on one occasion been decided
in the Court of Common Pleas that an action of trover could be maintained for a negro, "because
negroes are heathens;" though Chief-justice Holt scouted the idea of being bound by a precedent
which would put "a human being on the same footing as an ox or an ass," and declared that "in
England there was no such thing as a slave." Subsequent decisions, however, of two Lord Chancellors--Lord
Talbot and Lord Hardwicke--were not wholly consistent with the doctrine thus laid down by Holt;
and the question could not be regarded as finally settled till 1772, when a slave named Somersett
was brought over to England from Jamaica by his master, and on his arrival in the Thames claimed
his freedom, and under a writ of habeas corpus had his claim allowed by Lord Mansfield. The
master's counsel contended that slavery was not a condition unsanctioned by English law, for
villeinage was slavery, and no statute had ever abolished villeinage. But the Chief-justice,
in the first place, denied that villeinage had ever been slavery such as existed in the West
Indies; and, in the second place, he pronounced that, whether it had been or not, it had, at
all events, long ceased in England, and could not be revived. And for sixty years more our
West India Islands continued to be cultivated by the labor of slaves, some of whom were the
offspring of slaves previously employed, though by far the greater part were imported yearly
from the western coast of Africa. The supply from that country seemed inexhaustible. The native
chiefs in time of war gladly sold their prisoners to the captains of British vessels; in time
of peace they sold them their own subjects; and, if at any time these modes of obtaining slaves
slackened, the captains would land at night, and, attacking the villages on the coast sweep
off the inhabitants on board their ships, and at once set sail with their booty. The sufferings
of these unhappy captives in what was called the "middle passage"--the passage between their
native land and the West India Islands--were for a long time unknown or disregarded, till,
early in Pitt's first ministry, they attracted the notice of some of our naval officers who
were stationed in the West Indies, and who, on their return to England, related the horrors
which they had witnessed or heard of--how, between decks too low to admit of a full-grown man
standing upright, the wretched victims, chained to the sides of the ships, lay squeezed together
in such numbers, though the whole voyage was within the tropics, that, from the overpowering
heat and scantiness of food, it was estimated that two-thirds of each cargo died on the passage.
Most fortunately for the credit of England, the fearful trade was brought under the notice
of a young member of Parliament singularly zealous in the cause of humanity and religion, endowed
with untiring industry and powerful eloquence, and connected by the closest ties of personal
intimacy with Mr. Pitt. To hear of such a system of organized murder, as the British officers
described the slave-trade to be, was quite sufficient to induce Mr. Wilberforce to resolve
to devote himself to its suppression. He laid the case in all its horrors before his friend
the Prime-minister, a man as ready as himself to grapple with and extinguish all proved abuses;
and Pitt at once promised him all the support which he could give. It was no easy task that
he had taken on himself. A year or two before, Burke had applied himself to frame some regulations
which he hoped might gradually remove the evil; but, little as he was moved by considerations
of popularity or daunted by difficulty, he had abandoned the attempt, as one which would meet
with a resistance too powerful to be overcome. Wilberforce was not a bolder man than Burke,
but he had no other object to divide his attention, and, therefore, to this one he devoted
all his faculties and energies, enlisting supporters in every quarter, seeking even the co-operation
of the French government, and opening a correspondence with the French Secretary of State,
M. Montmorin, a statesman of great capacity, and, what was far rarer in France, of incorruptible
honesty. M. Montmorin, however, though alive to the cruelty of the traffic, was unable to promise
him any aid, alleging the fears of the French planters that its abolition "would ruin the French
islands. He said that it was one of those subjects upon which the interests of men and their
sentiments were so much at variance, that it was difficult to learn what was practicable."[160]

Wilberforce had already found that the English merchants were still less manageable. Pitt had
entered so fully into his views, that in 1788 he himself moved and carried a resolution pledging
the House of Commons to take the slave-trade into consideration in the next session. And another
friend of the cause, Sir W. Dobben, brought in a bill to diminish the horrors of the middle
passage by proportioning the number of slaves who might be conveyed in one ship to the tonnage
of the vessel. But those concerned in the West India trade rose up in arms against even so
moderate a measure, and one so clearly demanded by the most ordinary humanity as this. The
Liverpool merchants declared that the absence of restrictions on the slave-trade had been the
chief cause of the prosperity and opulence of their town, and obtained leave to be heard by
counsel against the bill. But Fox united with Pitt on this subject, and the bill was carried.
But this was all the practical success which the efforts of the "Abolitionists," as they began
to be called, achieved for many years. And even that was not won without extreme difficulty;
Lord Chancellor Thurlow opposing it with great vehemence in the House of Lords, as the fruit
of a "five days' fit of philanthropy which had just sprung up," and pointing to the conduct
of the French government, which, as he asserted, had offered premiums to encourage the trade,
as an example that we should do well to follow. It was even said that he had contrived to incline
the King himself to the same view; to have persuaded him that the trade was indispensable to
the prosperity of our manufacturers, and, in the Chancellor's words, "that it was his royal
duty to show some humanity to the whites as well as to the negroes." And more than once, when
bills to limit or wholly suppress the trade had been passed by the Commons, the same mischievous
influence defeated them in the Lords. The last years of Pitt's first administration were too
fully occupied with the affairs of Ireland, negotiations with foreign powers, and the great
war with France, to enable him to keep pace with his friend's zeal on the subject. But in his
second administration, occupied though he was with a recurrence of the same causes, he found
time to prepare and issue an Order in Council prohibiting the importation of slaves into our
fresh colonial acquisitions, and the employment of British ships to supply the Dutch, French,
and Spanish islands.

And this Order in Council paved the way for the total abolition. One of the earliest proceedings
of the new ministry was the introduction by the Attorney-general, Sir Arthur Pigott, of a bill
to extend and make it perpetual; to forbid "the importation of African negroes by British ships
into the colonies conquered by or ceded to us in war; or into the colonies of any neutral state
in the West Indies. For at present every state that had colonies in America or the West Indies,
and that was not actually at war with us, availed itself of the opportunity of British shipping
to carry on the trade." It was resisted as vehemently as any former measure with the same object,
and partly on the new ground that it would in no degree stop the trade or diminish the sufferings
of the Africans, but would merely rob our ship-owners of their profits to enrich the Americans.
Mr. Rose, the member for Christchurch, who advanced this argument, had been a friend of Pitt;
yet, though he quoted an instance of a single vessel having buried one hundred and fifty-two
slaves on one voyage, he was not ashamed to deprecate the bill, on the plea that "the manufacturers
of Manchester, Stockport, and Paisley would be going about naked and starving, and thus, by
attending to a supposed claim for relief from a distant quarter, we should give existence to
much more severe distress at home." The bill, however, was carried in both Houses, and received
the royal assent. And Fox, who supported it warmly in his speech on the third reading (one
of the last speeches which he ever addressed to the House), invited Wilberforce to regard it
as a stepping-stone to the total abolition of the trade, and as an encouragement to renew his
motion for that object; and, though he could not promise him the support of the government
as a government, he "could answer for himself and many of his friends who held the highest
and most dignified stations in the other House of Parliament. They still felt the question
of the total abolition as one involving the dearest interests of humanity, and as one which,
should they be successful in effecting it, would entail more true glory upon their administration,
and more honor upon their country, than any other transaction in which they could be engaged."

Mr. Fox did not live to see the opening of another session; but, when that time came, the position
which he had taken up, that the measure of which he had thus promoted the passing was an encouragement
to do more, was adopted to its full extent by the chief of his colleagues, Lord Grenville,
who, in February, 1807, himself brought forward a motion for the entire abolition of the trade.
Though he was Prime-minister, he could not introduce it as a government measure, since two
of his colleagues--Lord Sidmouth, the President of the Council, and Mr. Windham, the Secretary
of State for the Colonies--opposed it; though the former professed a desire to see the trade
abolished, but would have preferred to attain that end by imposing such a tax on every slave
imported as should render the trade unprofitable. He had another obstacle also to encounter,
in the vehement opposition of some of the princes of the royal family, the Dukes of Clarence
and Sussex more especially, who were known to be canvassing against the bill, and were generally
understood, in so doing, to be acting in accordance with the views of their elder brothers.
But he was confident that by this time the feeling of the whole country was with him on the
subject. He was resolved to rest his case on its justice, and therefore consented that the
House should hear counsel on the subject, though he resisted their demand to be allowed to
call witnesses. Accordingly, counsel were heard for the whole body of West India planters,
and for those of one or two separate islands, such as Jamaica and Trinidad; for the Liverpool
merchants, and even for the trustees of the Liverpool Docks. But some of their reasonings he
even turned against themselves, refusing for a moment to admit "that the profits obtained by
robbery could be urged as an argument for the continuance of robbery." He denounced the trade
as "the most criminal that any country could be engaged in," and as one that led to other crimes
in the treatment of the slaves after they reached the West Indies. He instanced "three most
horrible and dreadful murders of slaves" that had been committed in Barbadoes, and quoted the
report of Lord Seaforth, governor of the island, who, on investigation, had found that by the
law of the colony the punishment affixed to such murders was a fine of eleven pounds. He was
opposed by the Duke of Clarence, who directed his remarks chiefly to a defence of the general
humanity of the planters; and by Lord Westmoreland, who, in a speech of singular intemperance,
denounced the principle of the measure, as one after the passing of which "no property could
be rendered safe which could fall within the power of the Legislature." He even made it an
argument against the bill that its principle, if carried to its legitimate logical end, must
tend to the abolition of slavery as well as of the slave-trade. He objected especially to the
assertion in the preamble that the trade was "contrary to justice and humanity," declaring
that those words were only inserted in the hope that by them "foreign powers might be humbugged
into a concurrence with the abolition," and wound up his harangue by a declaration that, though
he should "see the Presbyterian and the prelate, the Methodist and pew-preacher, the Jacobin
and the murderer, unite in support of it, he would still raise his voice against it." It must
have been more painful to the minister to be opposed by so distinguished an officer as Lord
St. Vincent, who resisted the bill chiefly on the ground that "its effect would be to transfer
British capital to other countries, which would not be disposed to abandon so productive a
trade," and declared that he could only account for Lord Grenville's advocacy of it "by supposing
that some Obi man had cast his spell upon him." But the case was too strong for any arguments
to prevail which were based solely on the profits of a trade which no one pretended to justify.
The bill passed the Lords by a majority of nearly three to one; in the House of Commons, where
the opposition was much feebler, by one infinitely larger;[161] and, by a somewhat remarkable
coincidence, it received the royal assent on the same day on which Lord Grenville announced
to his brother peers that his administration was at an end.

Even before the abolition had thus become law, the member for Northumberland, Earl Percy, endeavored
to give practical effect to Lord Westmoreland's view, that emancipation of the slaves was its
inevitable corollary, by moving for leave to bring in a bill for the gradual abolition of slavery
in the British settlements of the West Indies. But he was opposed by Lord Howick,[162] though
he had been among the earnest advocates of abolition, partly for the sake of the negroes themselves,
and partly on the ground that the Legislature had no "right to interfere with the property
of the colonists;" little foreseeing that the measure which he now opposed was reserved for
his own administration, and that its accomplishment would be one of its chief titles to the
respectful recollection of posterity. And, as the House was presently counted out, the discussion
would not have been worth recording, were it not for the opportunity which it gave of displaying
the practical and moderate wisdom of Wilberforce himself, who joined in the opposition to Lord
Percy's motion. "The enemies of abolition had," he said, "always confounded abolition with
emancipation. He and his friends had always distinguished between them; and not only abstained
from proposing emancipation, but were ready to reject it when proposed by others. How much
soever he looked forward with anxious expectation to the period when the negroes might with
safety be liberated, he knew too well the effect which the long continuance of abject slavery
produced upon the human mind to think of their immediate emancipation, a measure which at the
present moment would be injurious both to them and to the colonies. He and those who acted
with him were satisfied with having gained an object which was safely attainable."

And they had reason to be satisfied. For the good work thus done was not limited by the extent
of the British dominions, vast as they are. The example of the homage thus paid by the Parliament
and the nation to justice and humanity was contagious; the principle on which the bill was
founded and was carried being such that, for mere shame, foreign countries could hardly persist
in maintaining a traffic which those who had derived the greatest profit from it had on such
grounds renounced; though our ministers did not trust to their spontaneous sympathies, but
made the abolition of the traffic by our various allies, or those who wished to become so,
a constant object of diplomatic negotiations, even purchasing the co-operation of some by important
concessions, in one instance by the payment of a large sum of money. The conferences and congresses
which took place on the re-establishment of peace gave them great facilities for pressing their
views on the different governments. And Lord Liverpool's instructions to Lord Castlereagh and
the Duke of Wellington, as plenipotentiaries of our government,[163] show the keen interest
which he took in the matter, and the skilful manner in which he sought to avail himself of
the predominant influence which the exertions and triumphs of this country had given her with
every foreign cabinet. Though Portugal was an ally to whom we regarded ourselves as bound by
special ties, as well as by the great benefits we had conferred on her, yet, as she clung with
the greatest pertinacity to the trade, he did not scruple to endeavor to put a constraint upon
her which should compel her submission, and instructed Lord Castlereagh "to induce the Congress
to take the best means in their power to enforce it by the adoption of a law, on the part of
the several states, to exclude the colonial produce of those countries who should refuse to
comply with this system of abolition."

And exertions so resolutely put forward were so successful, that the trade was avowedly proscribed
by every European nation, though unquestionably it was still carried on by stealth by merchants
and ship-owners of more than one country--not, if the suspicions of our statesmen were well
founded, without some connivance on the part of their governments. Nor were our efforts in
the cause the fitful display of impulsive excitement. We have continued them and widened their
sphere as occasions have presented themselves, exerting a successful influence even over unchristian
and semi-civilized governments, of which an instance has very recently been furnished, in the
assurances given by the Khedive of Egypt to our minister residing at his court, that he is
taking vigorous measures to suppress the slave-trade, which is still carried on in the interior
of Africa; and that we may believe his promise that he will not relax his exertions till it
is extinguished, at least in the region on the north of the equator.

Individuals, as a rule, are slow to take warning from the experience of others; slower, perhaps,
to follow their example in well-doing. Nations are slower still. When such an example is followed,
still more when it is adopted by a general imitation, it will usually be found not only that
the good is of a very unusual standard of excellence, but that he or they who have set the
example are endowed with a force of character that predisposes others to submit to their influence.
And credit of this kind England may fairly claim for the general abolition of the slave-trade;
for the condemnation and abolition of the slave-trade had this distinguishing feature, that
the idea of such a policy was of exclusively British origin. No nation had ever before conceived
the notion that to make a man a slave was a crime. On the contrary, there were not wanting
those who, from the recognition of such a condition in the Bible, argued that it was a divine
institution. And they who denounced it, and labored for its suppression, had not only inveterate
prejudice and long custom to contend with, but found arrayed against them many of the strongest
passions that animate mankind. The natural desire for gain united merchants, ship-owners, and
planters in unanimous resistance to a measure calculated to cut off from them one large source
of profit. Patriotism, which, however misguided, was sincere and free from all taint of personal
covetousness, induced many, who wore wholly unconnected either with commerce or with the West
Indies, to look with disfavor on a change which not only imperilled the interests of such important
bodies of men, but which they were assured by those concerned, must render the future cultivation
of estates in the West Indies impracticable; while such a result would not only ruin those
valuable colonies, but would also extinguish that great nursery for our navy which was furnished
by the vessels at present engaged in the West India trade. To disregard such substantial considerations
to risk a loss of revenue, a diminution of our colonial greatness, and a weakening of our maritime
power, even while engaged in a formidable war, under no other pressure but that of a respect
for humanity and justice, was certainly a homage to those virtues, and also an act of self-denying
courage, of which the previous history of the world had furnished no similar example; and it
is one of which, in one point of view, the nation may be more justly proud than of the achievements
of its wisest statesmen, or the exploits of its most invincible warriors. For it was the act
of the nation itself. No previous sentiment of the people paved the way for Pitt's triumphs
in finance, for Nelson's or Wellington's victories by sea and land; but the slave-trade could
never have been abolished by any parliamentary leader, had not the nation as a whole become
convinced of its wickedness, and, when once so convinced, resolved to brave everything rather
than persist in it. The merit of having impressed it with this conviction belongs to Mr. Wilberforce,
whose untiring, unswerving devotion of brilliant eloquence and practical ability to the one
holy object, and whose ultimate success, give him a just claim to be reckoned among the great
men of a generation than which the world has seen none more prolific of every kind of greatness.
But the nation itself is also entitled to no slight credit for having so rapidly appreciated
the force of his teaching, and for having encouraged its representatives to listen to his voice,
by the knowledge that by adopting his measures they would be carrying out the wish and determination
of the whole people.

A measure for the strengthening of the army, introduced by the Secretary of State for War,
Mr. Windham, though not one of perpetual force, since it required to be renewed every year,
claims a brief mention, from the extent to which one of its clauses trenched on the freedom
of the subject, by making every man of military age (from sixteen years old[164] to forty)
liable to be compelled to submit to military training for a certain period of each year. "Nothing,"
to quote the Secretary's words, "was to exempt any man from the general training but his becoming
a volunteer at his own expense, the advantage of which would be that he could train himself
if he chose, and fight, if occasion required it, in the corps to which he should belong, instead
of being liable to fall in among the regulars.... As out of the immense mass of the population
some selection must be made, those called on to be trained were to be selected by lot, and
he would have the people divided into three classes, between the ages of sixteen and forty:
the first class to comprehend all from sixteen to twenty-four; the second, those between twenty-four
and thirty-two; and the third, all from thirty-two to forty. The number of days for training
he proposed to limit to twenty-six, with an allowance of a shilling a day for each man." The
result aimed at by this part of his measure was the creation of a force different from and
unconnected with the militia; and he did not conceal his hope that the military habits which
it would implant in a large portion of the population would lead many of those thus about to
be trained to enlist in the regular army. To the militia itself he paid a high but not undeserved
compliment, declaring it "for home service certainly equal to any part of our regular forces,
with the single exception that it had never seen actual service." But the militia could not
be called on to serve out of the kingdom; and his object was to increase the force available
for foreign service--"to see the great mass of the population of the country so far trained
as to be able to recruit immediately whatever losses the regular army might sustain in action."
As yet, the number of men yearly obtained by recruiting fell far short of the requirements
of the service. Wellington had not yet begun that career of victory which created a national
enthusiasm for war, and filled our ranks with willing soldiers. And another clause of the same
bill was framed in the hope of making the service more acceptable to the peasantry, by limiting
the time for which recruits were to be enlisted, and entering men, at first, in the infantry
for seven years, or in the cavalry (as that branch of the service required a longer apprenticeship)
for ten; then allowing them the option of renewing their engagement for two periods--in the
infantry of seven years each, in the cavalry of six and five, with increased pay during each
of the two periods, and a small pension for life, if the soldier retired after the second period;
and "the full allowance of Chelsea," which was to be farther raised to a shilling a day, for
those who elected to serve the whole twenty-one years. This principle the present reign has
seen carried to a much greater extent, but the change is too recent for even the most experienced
officers to be agreed on its effects. And it is only because of this recent extension of it
that this clause is mentioned here. But the enactment of a law of compulsory service was clearly
an inroad on the great constitutional right of every man to choose his own employment. At the
same time, it is equally clear that it was only such an inroad as under the circumstances,
was fully justifiable. It is true that all danger of French invasion had passed away with Trafalgar;
but the kingdom was still engaged in a gigantic war, and the necessity of the case--always
the supreme law--was so little denied by the Opposition, that their objections to the bill
were directed entirely against the clause for limited enlistment, and not against that which
abridged the subject's liberty, by compelling him to learn to serve his country in war.

The reign of George III., which had now lasted fifty years, was drawing practically to a close.
The excitement caused by the ministerial changes in 1801 had already brought on one relapse,
though fortunately a very brief one, of the King's malady of 1788; and in the autumn of 1810
the death of the daughter who was supposed to be his especial favorite, the Princess Amelia,
produced a recurrence of it, which, though at first the physicians entertained more sanguine
hopes of his speedy recovery than on any former occasion, he never shook off. More than one
change of ministry had recently taken place. In 1807 Lord Grenville had been compelled, as
Pitt had been in 1801, to choose between yielding his opinions on the Catholic question or
resigning his office, and had chosen the latter alternative. He had been succeeded for two
years by the Duke of Portland; but in 1809 that nobleman had also retired, and had been succeeded
by his Attorney-general, Mr. Perceval, the only practising barrister who had ever been so promoted.
And he now being Prime-minister, and, as such, forced to make arrangements for carrying on
the government during the illness of his sovereign, naturally regarded the course pursued in
1789 as the precedent to be followed. Accordingly, on the 20th of December he proposed for
the adoption of the House of Commons the same resolutions which Pitt had carried twenty-two
years before--that the King was prevented by indisposition from attending to public business;
that it was the duty of Parliament to provide means for supplying the defect of the personal
exercise of the royal authority, and its duty also to determine the mode in which the royal
assent to the measures necessary could be signified. And he also followed Pitt's example in
expressing by letter to the Prince of Wales his conviction that his Royal Highness was a person
most proper to be appointed Regent, and explaining at the same time the restrictions which
seemed proper to be imposed on his immediate exercise of the complete sovereign authority;
though the advanced age at which the King had now arrived made it reasonable that those restrictions
should now be limited to a single year. The Prince, on his part, showed that time had in no
degree abated his repugnance to those restrictions, and he answered the minister's letter by
referring him to that which he had addressed to Pitt on the same subject in 1788. And he induced
all his brothers to address to Perceval a formal protest against "the establishment of a restricted
Regency," which they proceeded to describe as perfectly unconstitutional, as being contrary
to and subversive of the principles which seated their family upon the throne of this realm.[165]

Perceval, however, with Pitt's example before him, had no doubt of the course which it was
his duty to pursue; and the Opposition also, for the most part, followed the tactics of 1789;
the line of argument now adopted by each party being so nearly identical with that employed
on the former occasion, that it is needless to recapitulate the topics on which the different
speakers insisted; though it is worth remarking that Lord Holland, who, as the nephew of Fox,
thought it incumbent on him to follow his uncle's guidance, did on one point practically depart
from it. As his uncle had done, he denied the right of the Houses to impose any restrictions
on the Prince's exercise of the royal authority; but, at the same time, he consented to put
what may be called a moral limitation on that exercise, by adding to an amendment which he
proposed to the resolution proposed by the minister an expression of "the farther opinion of
the House that it will be expedient to abstain from the exercise of all such powers as the
immediate exigencies of the state shall not call into action, until Parliament shall have passed
a bill or bills for the future care of his Majesty's royal person during his Majesty's present
indisposition."

It is remarkable that the leaders of the Opposition were in a great degree stimulated in the
line they took by the very same hopes which had animated Fox and his followers in 1789--the
expectation that the Regent's first act would be to discard the existing ministry, and to place
them in office. But again they were disappointed in their anticipations, of the realization
of which they had made so sure that they had taken no pains to keep them secret. They even
betrayed their mortification to the world when the Prince's intentions on the subject of the
administration became known by the violence of their language in Parliament, some of their
party denouncing the employment of the Great Seal to give the royal assent to the bill as "fraud
and forgery." Nor, indeed, could the Regent himself, even while expressing his intention to
make no change in the administration, lest "any act of his might in the smallest degree have
the effect of interfering with the progress of his sovereign's recovery," suppress an expression
of dissatisfaction at the recent arrangements, which he considered had placed him in "a situation
of unexampled embarrassment," and had created "a state of affairs ill calculated, as he feared,
to sustain the interests of the United Kingdom in this awful and perilous crisis, and most
difficult to be reconciled to the general principles of the British constitution."[166] There
were at this time general and apparently well-founded hopes of the King's recovery. For at
intervals during the whole of January the Prime-minister had interviews with his Majesty; and,
on the very day on which the bill became law, the King himself mentioned it to Lord Eldon,
the Chancellor, and said that he acquiesced in it from perfect confidence in the advice of
his physicians, and on the sound judgment and personal attachment of his ministers.

For the present, therefore, no change was made in the administration; but when, in the spring
of the following year, Mr. Perceval was murdered, the necessity for a new arrangement which
this strange and calamitous atrocity forced upon the Regent--who by this time had come into
possession of his full authority--led to his making offers of the conduct of affairs to more
than one prominent statesman, all of them, as is somewhat remarkable, being peers. And, though
the proposals eventually came to nothing, and the negotiations terminated in the re-establishment
of the former ministry, with Lord Liverpool at its head, yet some of the causes to which their
failure was publicly or generally attributed seem desirable to be recorded, because the first,
and that most openly avowed, bears a not very distant resemblance to the complication which
baffled Sir Robert Peel's endeavors to form an administration in 1839; and another corresponds
precisely to a proposal which, in 1827, the Regent--then King George IV.--did himself make
to the Duke of Wellington. It is unnecessary to dwell on the singular manner in which the Regent
first professed to give his confidence to Lord Wellesley, then transferred it to Lord Moira,[167]
and then to a certain extent included Lord Grey and Lord Grenville in it. Nor would it be profitable
to discuss the correctness or incorrectness of the suspicion expressed by Mr. Moore, in his
"Life of Sheridan"--who was evidently at this time as fully in the Regent's confidence as any
one else--that "at the bottom of all these evolutions of negotiation there was anything but
a sincere wish, that the object to which they related should be accomplished."[168] The reason
avowed by Lord Grey and Lord Grenville for refusing a share in the projected administration
was the refusal of Lord Moira, who had been employed by the Prince to treat with them on the
subject, to allow them to make a power of removing the officers at present filling "the great
offices of the household"[169] an express condition of their acceptance of ministerial office.
They affirmed that a "liberty to make new appointments" to these offices had usually been given
on every change of administration. But Lord Moira, while admitting that "the Prince had laid
no restriction on him in that respect," declared that "it would be impossible for him to concur
in making the exercise of this power positive and indispensable in the formation of the administration,
because he should deem it on public grounds peculiarly objectionable." Such an answer certainly
gives a great color to Moore's suspicion, since it is hardly possible to conceive that Lord
Moira took on himself the responsibility of giving it without a previous knowledge that it
would be approved by his royal master. In a constitutional point of view, there can, it will
probably be felt, be no doubt that the two lords had a right to the liberty they required.
And the very men concerned, the great officers of the household, were evidently of the same
opinion, since the chief, Lord Yarmouth, informed Sheridan that they intended to resign, in
order that he might communicate that intention to Lord Grey; and Sheridan, who concealed the
intelligence from Lord Grey, can hardly be supposed, any more than Lord Moira, to have acted
in a manner which he did not expect to be agreeable to the Prince. But, in Canning's opinion,
this question of the household was only the ostensible pretext, and not the real cause, of
those two lords rejecting the Regent's offers; the real cause being, as he believed, that the
Prince himself had already named Lord Wellesley as Prime-minister, and that they were resolved
to insist on the right of the Whig party to dictate on that point to the Regent,[170] just
as, in 1782, Fox had endeavored to force the Duke of Portland on the King, when his Majesty
preferred Lord Shelburne. As has been intimated in a former page, it will be seen hereafter
that in 1839 a similar claim to be allowed to remove some of the ladies of the royal household,
and the rejection of that claim by the sovereign, prevented Sir R. Peel from forming an administration.
And, as that transaction was discussed at some length in Parliament, it will afford a better
opportunity for examining the principle on which the claim and practice (for of the practice
there is no doubt) rest. For the present it is sufficient to point out the resemblance between
the cases.

But it is remarkable that, unwarrantable as the pretension of the Whig leaders was to dictate
to the Regent to whom he should confide the lead of the government (if, indeed, Canning be
correct in his opinion), yet it was not one to which the Regent felt any repugnance, since,
in 1827, when Lord Liverpool's illness again left the Treasury vacant, he, being then on the
throne as George IV., proposed to the Duke of Wellington to desire the remaining members of
the administration themselves to select a chief under whom they would be willing to continue
in his service; but the Duke told him that the plan of allowing them to choose their own leader
would be most derogatory to his position; that the choice of the Prime-minister was an act
which ought to be entirely his own, for that, in fact under the British constitution, it was
the only personal act of government which the King of Great Britain had to perform.[171] Though
not generally a great authority on constitutional points, we apprehend that the Duke was clearly
correct in this view, which, indeed, has been so invariably carried out in practice, that the
King's suggestion would not have deserved mention had it not been a king's. So far from it
belonging to any individual subject or to any party to name the Prime-minister, to do so is
even beyond the province of the Parliament. Parliament decides whether it will give its confidence
to an administration of one party or the other; but not only has no vote ever been given on
the question whether one member of the dominant party be fitter or not than another to be its
head, but we do not remember a single instance of any member of either House expressing an
opinion on the subject in his place in Parliament. To do so would be felt by every member of
experience to be an infringement on the prerogative of his sovereign; and it may be added that
a contrary practice would certainly open the door to intrigue, or, what would be equally bad,
a suspicion of intrigue, and would thus inevitably diminish the weight which even the Opposition
desire to see a Prime-minister possess both in Parliament and in the country.

Notes:

[Footnote 148: It is somewhat remarkable that Lord Macaulay, in his endeavors to estimate the
population in 1685, takes no notice of any of these details mentioned by Mr. Abbott.]

[Footnote 149: The details of this census of 1801 are given in a note in the preceding chapter
(see page 185), from which it appears that the entire population of the United Kingdom was
in that year 16,395,870. Sir A. Alison, in different chapters of the second part of his "History
of Europe," gives returns of subsequent censuses, from the last of which (c. lvi., s. 34, note),
it appears that in 1851 the population amounted to 27,511,862. an increase of 11,116,792 in
half a century.]

[Footnote 150: "Lives of the Chief-justices," by Lord Campbell, iii., 87, life of Lord Kenyon.]

[Footnote 151: "What is this," said George III. to Mr. Dundas, "which this young lord (Castlereagh)
has brought over, which they are going to throw at my head? The most Jacobinical thing I ever
heard of! I shall reckon any man my personal enemy who proposes any such measure."--Life of
Pitt, iii., 274.]

[Footnote 152: "Lives of the Chancellors," c. clxxxiv., life of Lord Erskine.]

[Footnote 153: "Lives of the Chancellors," c. clix., life of Lord Thurlow.]

[Footnote 154: See "Memoires de M. de Metternich," ii., 156.]

[Footnote 155: "Lives of the Chief-justices," iii., 175.]

[Footnote 156: Lord Stanhope, "History of England," i., 133.]

[Footnote 157: "Lives of the Chief-justices," ii., 451. He is quoting H. Walpole.]

[Footnote 158: Ibid., iii., 187.]

[Footnote 159: Campbell's "Lives of the Chief-justices," II., 139, life of Chief-justice Holt;
and p. 418, life of Lord Mansfield.]

[Footnote 160: "Life of Wilberforce," i., 158.]

[Footnote 161: The division in the Lords was 100 to 36; in the Commons, 283 to 16.]

[Footnote 162: Afterward the Earl Grey of 1831.]

[Footnote 163: See especially his "Letters to Lord Castlereagh," p. 814; and "Life of Lord
Liverpool," i., 512; ii., 35, 49, 127.]

[Footnote 164: Lord Colchester's "Diary," ii., 49, dated April 3, 1806, says eighteen years.
But Mr. Windham's speech, as reported in the "Parliamentary History," second series, vi., 685,
says sixteen years; and as he divides the ages into three classes, the two latter of which,
from twenty-four to thirty-two, and from thirty-two to forty, are of eight years each, it is
probable that the younger class was of the same duration, i.e., from sixteen to twenty-four.]

[Footnote 165: Lord Colchester's "Diary," ii., 300.]

[Footnote 166: See "Diary of Lord Colchester" (Speaker at the time), c. xxxvi., p. 316. He
gives the whole of the Prince's letter to Perceval (which had been composed by Sheridan), and
of Perceval's reply. The Regency Bill became law February 5, 1811.]

[Footnote 167: A letter of Lord Wellesley to Lord Grey, June 4 (given by Pearce, "Life of Lord
Wellesley," iii., 270), shows that Lord Moira had been in communication with Lord Grey and
Lord Grenville before Lord Wellesley had given up the idea of forming a ministry. And though
Lord Grey in his reply (p. 272) expresses his conviction that Lord Moira's letter was not "an
authorized communication," but only "a private communication," it is clear that it could not
have been written without the privity of the Regent.]

[Footnote 168: "Life of Sheridan," ii., 425.]

[Footnote 169: Pearce's "Life of Lord Wellesley," iii., 276. All the letters which passed between
Lord Grey, Lord Grenville, Lord Moira, and Lord Wellesley himself are given at full length
by Mr. Pearce in that chapter.]

[Footnote 170: Stapleton's "George Canning and his Times," p. 202.]

[Footnote 171: Mr. Stapleton affirms that his Royal Highness actually did adopt this plan on
this occasion: "His Royal Highness adopted the unprecedented course of commanding his servants
to elect the First-minister. Their choice fell on Lord Liverpool."--George Canning and his
Times, p. 208.

The war was daily becoming of more exciting interest, and, so far as our armies were concerned,
was rapidly assuming greater proportions. While the Duke of Portland was still at the head
of affairs, Napoleon, by his unprovoked attacks on both the Peninsular kingdoms, had at last
opened a field of action to our armies, in which even the most sanguine of those who placed
a loyal confidence in the old invincibility of English prowess could not have anticipated the
unbroken series of glories which were to reward their efforts. For four years Lord Wellington
had contended against all the most renowned marshals of the Empire,[172] driving them back
from impregnable lines of defence, defeating them in pitched battles, storming their strongest
fortresses, without ever giving them room to boast of even the most momentary advantage obtained
over himself; and he was now on the eve of achieving still more brilliant and decisive triumphs,
which were never to cease till he had carried his victorious march far into the heart of France
itself.

At such a time it may well be supposed that the attention of the new ministry was too fully
occupied with measures necessary for the conduct of the war to leave it much time for domestic
legislation. Yet even its first session was not entirely barren.

In the first excitement of the Restoration, when the nation was still exasperated at the recollection
of what it had suffered under the triumphant domination of the Puritans, two laws had been
framed to chastise them, conceived in a spirit as intolerant and persecuting as had dictated
the very worst of their own. One, which was called the Conventicle Act, inflicted on all persons
above the age of sixteen, who should be present at any religious service performed in any manner
differently from the service of the Church of England, in any meeting-house, where more than
five persons besides the occupiers of the house should be present, severe penalties, rising
gradually to transportation; and gave a single magistrate authority to convict and to pass
sentence on the offenders. The latter statute had fallen into complete disuse, and many of
the provisions of the former had been relaxed, though magistrates in general construed the
relaxing enactments as leaving the relaxations wholly at their discretion to grant or to withhold,
and were very much in the habit of withholding or abridging them. Other statutes, such as the
Test Act, had subsequently been passed against every sect of Dissenters, though they had only
imposed civil disabilities, and had not inflicted penalties. But the new Prime-minister was
a man to whose disposition anything resembling persecution was foreign and repugnant. Before
his predecessor's unhappy death he had already discussed with him the propriety of abolishing
laws conceived in such a spirit; and he no sooner found himself at the head of the government
than he prepared a bill to carry out his views. He drew a distinction between the acts inflicting
penalties and those which only imposed disabilities. With these latter he did not propose to
interfere; but, in July, his colleague, Lord Castlereagh, introduced into the House of Commons
a bill to repeal the Conventicle Act and the Five Mile Act altogether, and, when it had passed
the Commons, he himself moved its adoption by the Lords, enforcing his recommendation by the
argument, that "an enlarged and liberal toleration was the best security to the Established
Church, a Church not founded on the exclusion of religious discussion, but, in its homilies,
its canons, and all the principles on which it rested, courting the investigation of the Scriptures,
upon which it founded its doctrines." At the same time, while urging the repeal of acts which
he truly branded as a disgrace to the statute-book, he was not blind to the duty imposed on
him, as responsible for the public tranquillity, of taking care that meetings held ostensibly
for purposes of devotion should not be perverted to the designs of political agitators; and
therefore he provided in the bill for the registration of all places appropriated to religious
worship, and for the exaction from "the preachers and teachers in those meetings of some test
or security in the oaths to be taken by them." He had already secured the acquiescence of the
bishops, and he was equally successful now in winning the assent of the House. The conditions,
such as they were, did not prevent the bill from being entirely acceptable to the Non-conformists;
and though their spokesman in the House of Commons, Mr. W. Smith, member for Norwich, confessed
a wish "that it had gone a little farther, and had granted complete religious liberty," he
at the same time expressed sincere gratitude on the part of the Non-conformists for what was
thus done for them; and declared that, "as an act of toleration, it certainly was the most
complete which had hitherto been passed in this country." It was, in fact, the beginning of
the abandonment of that system of discouragement of and hostility to all sects except the Established
Church, which had hitherto been regarded by a large party as one of the most essential principles
of the constitution. And as such it makes the year 1812 in some respects a landmark in our
constitutional history.

Mr. Smith had referred to an omission which prevented him from speaking of the bill as complete.
He was alluding to the Test and Corporation Acts, which had been passed ten years later than
the Conventicle Act, in the same reign of Charles II., and which many of the Non-conformists,
and especially the Unitarians, had urged Lord Liverpool to include in this measure of repeal,
but which he decided on retaining. As has been said above, he drew a distinction between acts
inflicting penalties and those which went no farther than imposing political disabilities,
feeling that any relief of Protestant Dissenters from such disabilities must inevitably lead
to the concession of a similar indulgence to Roman Catholics, and not being as yet prepared
to admit to Parliament the members of a Church which recognized the duty of obedience in any
matter to a foreign sovereign; for, as the disabilities had been originally imposed on the
Roman Catholics, so they were now maintained on political, not religious, grounds; and even
those most opposed to a relaxation of them were careful to explain their resistance to be one
which time and a change of circumstances might mitigate.[173]

As a fitter opportunity for discussing the question will be afforded by the Duke of Wellington's
bill, in 1829, we should not have mentioned it at all in this place, had not Lord Liverpool,
in arranging his administration, adopted a mode of dealing with it which, though rather a parliamentary
or departmental than a constitutional innovation, was, nevertheless, one of so strange a character
as to seem to call for examination. Ever since the formation of Walpole's ministry it had been
the invariable rule and practice for all the members of the cabinet to act in concert on all
measures of importance, or, indeed it may be said, on all measures on which a Parliamentary
vote was taken. But, in arranging his administration after Mr. Perceval's death, Lord Liverpool
found it absolutely impossible to form one satisfactory either to the nation or to himself
if it were to be confined to members in perfect agreement with himself on the subject of the
retention of the disabilities affecting the Roman Catholics; and therefore, in order to be
able to form a ministry generally strong and respected, he adopted the strange expedient of
allowing every member of it to act independently on this one question. He made it what was
called an open question. The arrangement, as explained to the House of Commons by Lord Castlereagh,
the ministerial leader of that assembly, was that, "in submission to the growing change of
public opinion in favor of those claims (the Roman Catholic claims), and the real sentiments
of certain members of the government, it had been resolved upon, as a principle, that the discussion
of this question should be left free from all interference on the part of the government, and
that every member of that government should in it be left to the free and unbiassed suggestions
of his own conscientious discretion."

It was an arrangement which secured the Prime-minister the co-operation of Lord Castlereagh
himself, and eventually of Mr. Canning; but it failed to propitiate the Opposition, the leader
of which in the House of Commons, Mr. Ponsonby, turned it into open ridicule, affirming that
"nothing could be more absurd than a cabinet professing to have no opinion on such an important
subject." And it must be confessed that Mr. Ponsonby's language on the subject seems the language
of common-sense. So far from the importance of a question justifying such an arrangement, that
importance appears rather to increase, if possible, the necessity for absolute unanimity in
the administration than to diminish it; and on a grave and momentous subject to leave each
member of a ministry free to pronounce a separate and different judgment, so that one may resist
what his colleague advocates, is to abdicate the functions of government altogether. To permit
such liberty was either a proof that the ministry was weak altogether--which it was not--or
that its conduct on this question was weak. In either case, it was a mischievous precedent
that was thus set;[174] and the fact that it has since been followed in more than one instance,
is so far from being any justification of it, that it rather supplies an additional reason
for condemning it, as being the cause of wider mischief than if it had been confined to one
single question, or had influenced the conduct of one cabinet only. It has often been said
that the name "cabinet" is unknown to the law, and that what we call the cabinet is, in fact,
only a committee of the Privy Council. As a statement of law the assertion may be correct,
but it is certain that for more than a century and a half the constitution has adopted the
principle that the cabinet consists of the holders of a certain, to some extent a fluctuating,
number of the principal state officers; and, recognizing the responsibility of all for the
actions of each member of it, does by that recognition sanction an expectation that on all
questions, or at all events on all but those of the most trivial character, they will speak
and act with that unanimity which is indispensable, not only to the strength of the government
itself, but to its being held in respect by the people; such respect being, indeed, among the
most essential elements of its strength.

The incidents of the war itself do not belong to a work such as this; but, tantalizing as it
must be to an historian of any class to pass over the brilliant series of achievements which
gave Britain the glory of being twice[175] the principal agent in the deliverance of Continental
Europe, the glories of Salamanca, Victoria, Orthes, and Waterloo must be left to other writers,
who, it is not unpatriotic to hope, may never again have similar cause for exulting descriptions.
But out of the crowning triumph of Waterloo a difficulty arose which, though it may be difficult
to characterize the principle on which it was settled, since it was not strictly a question
of constitutional, international, or military law; and though the circumstances were so peculiar
that the conclusion adopted is never likely to be referred to as a precedent, seems still deserving
of a brief mention, especially as an act of Parliament was passed to sanction the decision
of the cabinet. Baffled by the vigilance of our cruisers in every attempt to escape from one
of the western ports of France to America, Napoleon was at last compelled to surrender himself
to a British squadron. But, though he was our prisoner, the Prime-minister considered us, in
all our dealings with him, as so bound by engagements to our allies, that he was to be regarded
as "the common prisoner of all, so far that we should not give him up or release him without
the joint consent of all." The question was full of difficulty. There were, probably, very
few persons in this or any other country who did not coincide in the impropriety of releasing
him, and so putting it in his power once more to rekindle a war in Europe. But it was a political
view of the case, founded on a consideration of what was required by the tranquillity of Europe;
and it was not easy to lay down any legal ground to justify the determination. Some regarded
him as a French subject, and, if that view were correct, he could hardly be detained by us
as a prisoner of war after we had concluded a treaty of peace with France. But, again, it seemed
to some, the Lord Chancellor being among them, a questionable point whether in the last campaign
we had been at war with France; whether, on the contrary, we had not assumed the character
of an ally of France against him. And, on the supposition that we had been at war with France,
a second question was raised by Lord Ellenborough, the Chief-justice, "what rights result on
principle from a state of war, as against all the individuals of the belligerent nations--rights,
whatever they may be, seldom, if ever, enforced against individuals, because individuals hardly
ever make war but as part of an aggregate nation." The question--as, after consultation with
Lord Ellenborough and his own brother, Sir William Scott, it finally appeared to Lord Eldon,
on whom the Prime-minister naturally depended, as his chief legal counsellor, though in its
political aspect he judged for himself--was, firstly, "whether it could possibly be inconsistent
with justice or the law of nations that, till some peace were made by treaty with some person
considered as Napoleon's sovereign, or till some peace were made with himself, we should keep
him imprisoned in some part of our King's dominions." And, secondly, "whether there were any
person who could possibly be considered his sovereign, after the treaty of 1814 had clothed
him with the character of Emperor of Elba, with imperial dignity and imperial revenue." Lord
Liverpool himself, however, raised another question: whether, by his invasion of France, he
had not forfeited his right to be regarded as an independent sovereign; resting this doubt
on a suggestion which, among others, he proposed to the Lord Chancellor, that "at Elba he enjoyed
only a limited and conditional sovereignty, which ceased when the condition on which he held
it was violated."

This last suggestion, it must be confessed, appears untenable, as totally inconsistent with
the language of the Treaty of Fontainebleau, under the provisions of which Napoleon became
sovereign of Elba, and which does not contain a single article which bears out the opinion
that his sovereignty was limited or conditional. On the contrary, the words of the treaty expressly
agree that "Elba should form during his life a separate principality, which should be possessed
by him in full sovereignty and property."

There is no need to discuss the views of Blucher. On the news of Napoleon's landing at Frejus
reaching the plenipotentiaries assembled at the Congress of Vienna, they at once issued a declaration
that, "in breaking the convention which had established him at Elba, Buonaparte" (for they
refused him his imperial appellation of Napoleon) "had destroyed the only legal title on which
his existence depended.... He had placed himself out of the pale of civil and social relations,
and, as the enemy and disturber of the peace of the world, he was delivered over to public
justice." And the old Prussian, burning with a desire to avenge the indignities and injuries
which he had inflicted on Prussia, avowed his determination to execute him as an outlaw, if
he should fall into his hands. And it is still less worthwhile to inquire--though Lord Holland
in his place in Parliament did desire the House to consult the judges on the point--whether,
if Napoleon were a prisoner of war, he "were not entitled to his habeas corpus, if detained
after the signature of a treaty of peace with all the powers, or any of which he could be considered
as the subject."

On the whole, the simplest view of the position and of our detention of him, the view most
reconcilable with the principles which regulate the waging and the relinquishing a state of
war, seems to be to consider that Napoleon was a sovereign with whom we were at war; that that
war could only be terminated by a treaty of peace between ourselves and him; that it rested
with us to conclude, or to abstain from concluding, any such treaty; and that, till we should
conclude it, we had clearly a right to detain him as a prisoner of war. It must, at the same
time, be admitted that modern history afforded no precedent for the detention of a prisoner
for his whole life (unless, indeed, Elizabeth's imprisonment of the Queen of Scots may be considered
as one), and that the most solid justification for it was necessity. To quote the language
of Lord Eldon, "I believe it will turn out that, if you can't make this a casus exceptionis
or omissus in the law of nations, founded upon necessity, you will not really know what to
say upon it. Salus Reipublicae suprema lex, as to one state; Salus omnium Rerumpublicarum must
be the suprema lex as to this case."[176]

In the course of the year 1818 a somewhat singular question as to the position of the Regent
was raised by a claim advanced by Colonel Berkeley to produce his Royal Highness as a witness
in a court of law. The Prince consulted the Prime-minister, and the Prime-minister referred
it to the Attorney and Solicitor General, not concealing his own impression that it could not
be consistent with his constitutional position and prerogative for the King to appear as a
witness to be subjected to examination and cross-examination.[177] They, in their statement
of opinion, assumed it to be an undeniable principle of the constitution that the sovereign,
"by reason of his royal character, could not give testimony." And therefore they had no doubt
that the Regent, exercising his authority, was equally prevented from so doing. Colonel Berkeley's
counsel had urged that, even if he could not appear in open court and be sworn, he had the
privilege of communicating his evidence in a peculiar mode, by certificate under the Sign Manual
or Great Seal. But the Attorney and Solicitor General professed that they could not discover
whence this last privilege was derived; they urged, as an insurmountable objection to such
a contrivance, that "all instruments under the Sign Manual or Great Seal must, in point of
form, be in the name of and on behalf of the King, which would manifestly be incongruous when
the evidence certified was not that of the King, but of the Regent himself." And they quoted
a case in which Lord Chief-justice Willes had said "that the certificate of the King, under
his Sign Manual, of a fact (except in an old case in Chancery) had always been refused." As
it had been urged also, on Colonel Berkeley's behalf, that the Prince had formerly "joined
in proving the will of the Duke of Brunswick," his brother-in-law, they farther expressed an
opinion that "he ought not to have done so, but should have left it to the other executors."

On the point whether "the King himself could give evidence orally or in any other manner,"
their opinion expressed very plainly the principle on which they maintained that he could not.
"That he was not compellable to do so; that he could not be sworn (there being no power capable
of administering an oath to him in a court of justice). That, whether his testimony be given
vivâ voce or otherwise, no question in chief or on cross-examination could be proposed to him,
was admitted by Colonel Berkeley's counsel. And that his testimony must be conclusive as to
the facts stated by him, appeared necessarily to follow from the perfection ascribed by law
to his royal character. For such remarkable exceptions, therefore, to the case of all other
witnesses they could not but think that strong and decisive authority ought to be produced;
while the silence of text-writers on the subject, so far from being favorable to the notion
that the King can give evidence, appeared to afford a directly contrary inference." And they
summed up their opinion in a few words: "that his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, while in
the personal exercise of the royal authority, was in the situation of the King in this respect,
and that the King could not by any mode give evidence as a witness in a civil suit."

It is very improbable that Colonel Berkeley should have made the application without previously
ascertaining the willingness of the Prince to give evidence, could such a course be permitted.
And as his Royal Highness, on receiving this opinion of the law-officers of the crown, did
not come forward as a witness, that opinion may be held to have settled the question. And,
apart from the constitutional objections relied on by those able lawyers, it is evident that
there would be serious practical objections to the sovereign being made a witness. It would
be derogatory to his royal character to put himself in a position where comments could be made,
either by the opposing barrister or by the public outside, on his evidence. And, on the other
hand, it would be perilously unfair to one litigant for his adversary to be able to produce
a witness who was not subject to cross-examination, nor to remarks upon his testimony.

The reign of George III. was now drawing to its close, and, if it produced no legislation affecting
the principles of the constitution (it will presently be seen that it did produce one measure
which its opponents branded as a violation of these principles), yet in its last years it witnessed
the revival of an agitation which was kept up with varying animation till it was temporarily
quieted by the concession of its demands. We have seen that one of Pitt's earliest efforts
at legislation had been directed to a reform in Parliament, an object which to the end of his
life he considered of great importance, though the revolutionary spirit aroused by the troubles
in France, and the open sympathy with the French Jacobins and Republicans avowed by a party
among ourselves--which, if numerically weak, was sufficiently loud and active to be dangerous--prevented
him from ever re-opening the subject. But, though the French Revolution in this way proved
for the time an insurmountable obstacle to the success of the reformers, in another way it
insured the revival of the question, by the general spirit of inquiry which it awakened among
the population at large, and which soon went beyond the investigation of any single abuse or
anomaly. For even less far-sighted statesmen than Pitt confessed the existence of much that
was not only theoretically indefensible, but practically mischievous. The period, little short
of a century, which elapsed between the death of William III. and Pitt's accession to office
had been one of almost complete stagnation and apathy. The Scotch Union, the Septennial Bill,
the establishment of a militia, and the Place Bill of 1743 were the only instances of any legislation
deserving the name of constitutional which made the reigns of Anne and the first two Georges
memorable. And in the very nature of things it was impossible that, after so long a slumber,
there should not be much to do, and many, whether capable or incapable, eager to bear a share
in the work. The sudden cessation of the excitement of war had begotten a restless craving
for some other excitement to take its place, and none seemed so creditable as energy and acuteness
in the discovery and removal of abuses. Complaints were made, and not without reason, of the
working of the poor-law; of the terrible severity of our criminal code; of the hardships and
sufferings of the younger members of the working classes, especially in the factories; of the
ignorance of a large portion of the people, in itself as prolific a cause of mischief and crime
as any other. But, though committees and commissions were appointed by Parliament to investigate
the condition of the kingdom in respect of these matters, a feeling was growing up that no
effectual remedy would be applied till the constitution of the House of Commons itself were
reformed, so as to make it a more real representation of the people than it could as yet be
considered. And a farther stimulus to this wish for such a Parliamentary reform was supplied
by the distress which a combination of circumstances spread among almost all classes in the
years immediately following the conclusion of the second treaty of peace.[178] The harvests
of the years 1816 and 1817 were unusually deficient, and this pressed heavily on the farmers
and landed proprietors. The merchants and manufacturers, who, while every part of the Continent
was disturbed or threatened by the operations of contending armies, had practically enjoyed
almost a monopoly of the trade of the world, found their profits reduced, by the new competition
to which the re-establishment of peace exposed them, to a point which compelled them to a severe
reduction of expenditure. The uncertainty felt as to the results to be brought about by the
inevitable repeal of the Bank Act of 1797, and the return to cash payments--results which it
was impossible to estimate correctly beforehand--had a tendency to augment the distress, by
the general feeling of uneasiness and distrust which it created. And the employers of labor
could not suffer without those who depended on them for employment suffering still more severely.
The consequence was, that there was a general stagnation of trade; numbers of artisans and
laborers of every kind were thrown out of work, and their enforced idleness and poverty, which
was its result, made them ready to become the tools of demagogues such as are never wanting
in the hour of distress and perplexity. Meetings were convened, ostensibly to petition for
reform, but in reality to afford opportunities for mob-orators, eager for notoriety, to denounce
the government and those whom they styled the "ruling classes," as the causes of the present
and past evils. From these meetings multitudes issued forth ripe for mischief. In some places
they rose against the manufacturers, and destroyed their machines, to the recent introduction
of which they attributed their want of employment. In others, still more senselessly, they
even set fire to the stores of grain in the corn-dealers' warehouses, aggravating by their
destruction the most painful of their own sufferings. On one occasion, a mob which had assembled
in one of the eastern districts of London, on pretence of framing a petition to be presented
to the Prince Regent, at the close of the meeting paraded the streets with a tricolor flag,
the emblem of the French Revolutionists, and pillaged a number of shops, especially those of
the gun-makers, spreading terror through all that side of the metropolis. In at least one instance
the violence of the rioters rose to the height of treason. Assassins fired at the Regent in
the Park as he was returning from the House of Lords, whither he had been to open Parliament;
and when it was found that they had missed their aim, the mob attacked the royal carriage,
pelting it with large stones, and breaking the windows; nor was it without some difficulty
that the escort of troops cleared a path for him through the mob, and enabled him to reach
Carlton House in safety.

The first effect of these outrages was to damage the cause of Reform itself, even such uncompromising
reformers as Lord Grey denouncing "meetings at which extensive schemes of Reform were submitted
to individuals incapable of judging of their propriety." The second consequence was to compel
the ministers to take steps to prevent a recurrence of such tumults and crimes. At first they
were contented with a temporary suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act; but, even while that suspension
was in force, it did not entirely prevent meetings, at some of which the language of the speakers
certainly bordered on sedition; and when the suspension was taken off, fresh meetings on a
larger scale, and of a more tumultuous character than ever, were held in more than one rural
district; finally, in July of 1819, the whole kingdom was thrown into a violent state of excitement
by a meeting held at Birmingham, at which the leaders, assuming the newly-invented party name
of Radicals, not only demanded the remodelling of the whole system of government, but, because
Birmingham as yet sent no members to the House of Commons, took it upon themselves to elect
Sir Charles Wolseley, a baronet of respectable family, as their representative to the Parliament,
and charged him to claim a place in the House of Commons in the next session, by the side of
those elected in obedience to the royal writs. Sir Charles was at once arrested on the charge
of having at this meeting used seditious language calculated to lead to a breach of the peace;
but the Radical leaders, far from being intimidated by this demonstration of vigor on the part
of the government, immediately summoned a similar meeting in Manchester, announcing their intention
to elect a representative of that great town likewise, which, though the largest of all the
manufacturing towns, was also unrepresented in the Imperial Parliament. The magistrates prohibited
the meeting. It was only postponed for a week, when the people assembled in such formidable
numbers (no estimate reckoned them at fewer than 60,000), that the ordinary civil authorities
deemed themselves unequal to dealing with it, and called in the aid first of the Yeomanry and
then of a hussar regiment. The soldiers behaved with great forbearance, as soldiers always
do behave on such occasions; but they were bound to execute the orders which were given them
to arrest some of the leaders, and, in the tumult which was the inevitable consequence of their
attempt to force a way through so dense a crowd, three or four lives were, unfortunately, lost.

So unusual a catastrophe called out the energies of both parties. The Radical leaders published
manifestoes declaring the people had been "massacred" by the soldiers by the orders of the
government. Meetings were held to denounce the conduct of the ministers, one being even promoted
by Lord Fitzwilliam, as Lord-lieutenant of Yorkshire, a dignity of which he was instantly deprived;
while, on the other hand, the grand-juries of Cheshire and Lancashire made reports of the condition
of those counties to the Secretary of State, which showed that a most alarming spirit prevailed
over the greater part of the district. "The most inflammatory publications had been issued
in the principal towns, at a price which put them within the reach of the poorest classes of
society. The training and military drilling of large bodies of men under regular leaders had
been carried on to a great extent for some time, chiefly by night; and there was no doubt that
an extensive manufacture of arms was going on." What was a hardly inferior symptom of danger
was a system of intimidation which prevailed to a most serious degree. Many magistrates had
received notices threatening their lives, and combinations had been formed to withhold custom
from publicans and shopkeepers who had come forward to support the civil power. In many parts
of the two counties the grand-juries declared "that no warrant of arrest or other legal process
could be executed; the payment of taxes had ceased, and the landlords were threatened with
the discontinuance of their rents."

It was admitted that the spirit of disaffection was local, confined to three or four counties;
but those counties were, next to Middlesex itself, the most populous and among the most important
in the kingdom, and there was danger lest the feeling, if not checked, might spread. The crisis
seemed so momentous, that some even of the Opposition leaders volunteered their counsels and
aid to the ministers in dealing with it. And the ministers, after long deliberation, decided
on calling Parliament together in November, and introducing some bills which they conceived
necessary to enable them to restore and preserve tranquillity. They were six in number; and--perhaps,
with some sarcastic reference to Gardiner's Six Acts in the sixteenth century--they were very
commonly spoken of as Lord Sidmouth's Six Acts, that noble lord being the Home-secretary, to
whose department they belonged. It is not necessary here to do more than mention the general
purport of five of them. One prohibited military training without the sanction of the government;
another empowered magistrates to search for arms which they had reason to believe were collected
for illegal purposes; the third authorized the seizure of seditious and blasphemous libels;
the fourth subjected publications below a certain size to the same stamp as that required for
a newspaper; the fifth regulated the mode of proceeding in trials for misdemeanor of a political
character. But these enactments were regarded as little more than arrangements of detail or
procedure involving no principles, and some of them were admitted even by the most steadfast
opponents of the ministers to be necessary. But the sixth, designed to restrain the practice
of holding large open-air meetings--not, indeed, forever, but for a certain period, fixed at
five years--was strongly resisted by the greater portion of the Whig party in both Houses,
as a denial to the people of one of their most ancient and constitutional rights.[179]

Its principal clauses enacted that "no meeting exceeding the number of fifty persons (except
a meeting of any county or division of any county, called by the Lord-lieutenant or sheriff
of such county, etc., or by five or more acting justices of the peace for such county, or by
the major part of the grand-jury; or any meeting of any city, borough, etc., called by the
mayor or other head officer of such city, etc.) should be holden for the purpose or on the
pretext of deliberating upon any public grievance, or upon any matter relating to any trade,
manufacture, etc., or upon any matter of Church or State, or of considering, proposing, or
agreeing to any petition, address, etc., etc., unless in the parish or township within which
the persons calling any such meeting usually dwell;" and it required six days' notice of the
intention to hold such meetings, with their time, place, and object, to be given to a magistrate.
It empowered the magistrate to whom such notice was given to alter the time and place. It forbade
adjournments intended to evade these prohibitions. It forbade any one to attend such meetings
except freeholders of the county, or parishioners of the parish, or members of the corporation
of the city or borough in which they were held, or members of the House of Commons for such
places. It empowered magistrates to proceed to the places where such meetings were being held,
and, if they thought it necessary, to require the aid of constables. It enacted that any meeting,
the tendency of which should be "to incite or stir up the people to hatred and contempt of
the person of his Majesty, his heirs and successors, or of the government or constitution of
this country as by law established, should be deemed an unlawful assembly." It empowered one
or more justices of the peace, in the event of any meeting being held contrary to the provisions
of this act, to warn every one present, in the King's name, to depart; and made those who did
not depart in obedience to such warning liable to prosecution for felony, and, if convicted,
to seven years' transportation. It forbade the display of flags, banners, or ensigns at any
meeting, and the employment of any drum, or military or other music; but it excepted from its
operation "any meeting or assembly which should be wholly holden in any room."

There was one peculiarity in the line taken by the opponents of the bill, that they did not
deny that the meetings which had induced the ministers to propose it were an evil, dangerous
to the general tranquillity; but it was strongly urged by Lord Erskine and others that the
existing laws were quite strong enough to deal with them, so that a new enactment was superfluous;
and by others, in both Houses, that such meetings were "an ancient and constitutional mode
of discussing abuses or petitioning Parliament," any interference with which was a greater
evil than the meetings themselves, as being a violation of the constitution. Mr. Brougham in
particular admitted, to the full extent of the assertions of the ministers themselves, "the
wickedness and folly of many of the speeches" made at the recent meetings. He expressed with
great force his entire disapproval of the system on which these meetings had been conducted,
and admitted that the martial array which had been exhibited, and the vastness of the numbers
of those who had attended, were of themselves calculated to excite alarm; but he declared that
"he could not on that account acquiesce in a total subversion of a popular right." On the other
hand, the ministers themselves did not deny "the general right of the people to petition the
Legislature, or to carry their addresses to the foot of the throne. And therefore (as Lord
Harrowby, the President of the Council, admitted) there could be no doubt of their right to
assemble, so far as was necessary to agree to their petitions or addresses. It was a right
that did not depend on the Bill of Rights, on which it was usually grounded, but had existed
long before. But this bill," he contended, "imposed no restrictions on the legitimate enjoyment
of that privilege; it only regulated the meetings at which it was to be exercised." And Lord
Liverpool affirmed that the bill was not only "consistent with the existing laws and principles
of the constitution, but was even proposed in furtherance of those principles, and for the
purpose of protecting the people of this country against a series of evils which, if not checked,
must subvert their laws and liberties."

In attempting to form a correct judgment on the question whether this bill were constitutional
or unconstitutional, it must, I think, be admitted that, as has been remarked before, the terms
"constitutional" and "unconstitutional" are somewhat vague and elastic. There is no one document--not
Magna Charta, nor the Petition of Eight, nor the Bill of Rights--which can be said to contain
the whole of the British constitution. Its spirit and principles are, indeed, to be found in
all the laws, to which they give animation and life, but not in any one law. And among its
leading principles are those which embrace the right of every individual to freedom of action
and freedom of speech, so long as he does not commit any crime himself, nor tempt others to
do so. Yet it does not follow that a new enactment which for a while abridges or suspends that
freedom of action or speech is inconsistent with those constitutional principles.

Ministers, to whom the government of a country is intrusted, do wrong if they limit their operations
to the punishment of offences which have been committed. It is at least equally their duty,
as far as possible, to prevent their commission; to take precautionary measures, especially
at times when there is notorious danger of offences being committed. At the same time they
are bound not to legislate under the influence of panic; not to yield to fears having no substantial
ground. And in their measures of precaution they are farther bound to depart from or overstep
the ordinary law as little as is compatible with the attainment of their object. In all such
cases each action of theirs must stand or fall by its own merits; by the greatness of the emergency
which has caused it, and by its sufficiency for its end. For as no law, except such as forbids
moral crimes, is invariable, so even the dearest privileges of each subject, being his for
the common good, are liable to temporary suspension for that common good. But the burden of
justification lies on those who propose that suspension.

Now, that this bill was such a suspension of the long-established rights of the subject, and
so far an overstepping of the principles of the constitution, is admitted by the very fact
of its framers only proposing for it a temporary authority. Had it not invaded a valuable and
real right, it might have been made of perpetual obligation. But it is not easy to see how
it can be denied that the dangers against which it was intended to guard were also real. It
was certain that itinerant demagogues were visiting districts with which they had no connection,
for the sole purpose of stirring up political agitation. It was clear that such meetings as
they convened, where those assembled could only be counted by tens of thousands, were too large
for deliberation, and were only meant for intimidation; and equally clear that, though the
existing laws may have armed the magistrate with authority to disperse such meetings, they
did not furnish him with the means of doing so without at least the risk of bloodshed (for
such a risk must be involved in the act of putting soldiers in motion), and still less did
they invest him with the desirable power of preventing such meetings. It was necessary, therefore,
to go back to the original principles and objects of every constitution, the tranquillity,
safety, and welfare of the nation at large. And it does not appear that this bill went beyond
what was necessary for that object. Indeed, though party divisions are not always trustworthy
tests of the wisdom or propriety of a measure, the unusual magnitude of the majorities by which
on this occasion the minister was supported in both Houses may fairly be regarded as a testimony
to the necessity of the bill,[180] while its sufficiency was proved by the abandonment of all
such meetings, and the general freedom from agitation in every part Of the country which prevailed
in the following year, though its most remarkable incident was one of which demagogues might
well have taken advantage, if they had not had so convincing a proof of the power of government,
and of the resolution of the ministers to exert it.[181]

Notes:

[Footnote 172: Against Junot, at Vimiera and Rolica, in 1808; Soult, at Oporto, and Victor,
at Talavera, in 1809; Massena and Ney, at Busaco and Torres Vedras, in 1810; Masséna and Bessiéres,
at Fuentes d'Onor, in 1811. Ciudad Rodrigo and Badajoz had been taken in 1812, in spite of
the neighborhood of Soult and Marmont. In July, 1813, a month after the formation of Lord Liverpool's
ministry, he routed Marmont at Salamanca; in 1813 he took Madrid, and routed Jourdain at Vittoria;
and, having subsequently defeated Soult at Sauroren, he crossed the French frontier in October.]

[Footnote 173: A resolution, moved by Mr. Canning, to take the claims of the Roman Catholics
into consideration in the next session had been carried in June by the large majority of 129;
and when Lord Wellesley brought forward a similar motion in the House of Lords, not only did
Lord Liverpool "protest against its being inferred from any declaration of his that it was,
or ever had been, his opinion that under no circumstances would it be possible to make any
alteration in the laws respecting the Roman Catholics," but the Chancellor, Lord Eldon, who
was generally regarded as the stoutest champion of the existing law, rested his opposition
entirely on political grounds, explaining carefully that he opposed the motion, "not because
he quarrelled with the religion of the Roman Catholics, but because their religious opinions
operated on their political principles in such a way as to render it necessary to adopt some
defence against them," and met the motion by moving the previous question, avowedly because
"he did not wish, at once and forever, to shut the door of conciliation;" and the previous
question was only carried by a single vote--126 to 125.]

[Footnote 174: "It (difference on the Catholic question) was an evil submitted to by the government,
of which Mr. Fox, Lord Grenville, and Lord Grey were members, in the years 1806, 1807, as well
as by the governments of Mr. Perceval, Lord Liverpool, and the Duke of Wellington."--Peel's
Memoirs, i., 62. This passage would seem to imply that Peel believed the Catholic question
to have been left "open" in 1806; but there is not, so far as the present writer is aware,
any trace of such an arrangement on record, and Lord Liverpool's letter to the King, of November
10, 1826 ("Life," iii., 436), shows clearly that he was not aware of such a precedent for the
arrangement which, in 1812, "he and others advised his Majesty" to consent to. Moreover, the
condemnation passed on it by Mr. Ponsonby, who had been Chancellor of Ireland in 1806 and 1807,
seems a clear proof that he knew nothing of it, though it is hardly possible that he should
have been ignorant of it if it had existed.]

[Footnote 175: To whom the chief glory of the Waterloo campaign belongs there can, of course,
be no doubt; and though the Austrians and Prussians put forward a claim to an equal share,
and Russia even to a preponderating one, in the first deposition of Napoleon, he himself constantly
attributed his fall more to the Peninsular contest than to any of his wars east of the Rhine.
And, indeed, it is superfluous to point out that almost to the last he gained occasional victories
over the Continental armies, but that he never gained one advantage over the British force;
and that Wellington invaded France the first week of October, 1813--nearly three months before
a single Russian or German soldier crossed the Rhine.]

[Footnote 176: Letter to Sir W. Scott, Twiss's "Life of Lord Eldon," ii., 272. It is remarkable
that in his "Life of Lord Ellenborough" Lord Campbell takes no notice of this case.]

[Footnote 177: The opinion of the Attorney and Solicitor General, Sir S. Shepperd and Sir R.
Gifford, is given at length in the author's "Life of Lord Liverpool," ii., 373.]

[Footnote 178: It is a shrewd observation of Sully, that it is never any abstract desire for
theoretical reforms, or even for increased privileges, which excites in lower classes to discontent
and outrage, but only impatience under actual suffering.]

[Footnote 179: The bill (entitled "The Seditious Meetings Prevention Bill"), 60 George III.,
c. 6, is given at full length in Hansard's "Parliamentary Debates," series 1., vol. xli., p. 1655.]

[Footnote 180: In the House of Lords the majority was 135 to 38; in the House of Commons, 851
to 128.

In the first month of 1820 George III. died. His had been an eventful reign, strangely checkered
with disaster and glory; but, if we compare its close with its commencement, it was still more
remarkably distinguished by a development of the resources and an increase in the wealth and
power of the nation, to which the history of no other country in the same space of time affords
any parallel.

Regarded from the first point of view, our successes greatly outweighed our disasters. The
loss of our North American Colonies, the only event which can be so described, was far more
than counterbalanced by our vast acquisitions in India, at the Cape of Good Hope, and Malta;
while to our maritime supremacy, in the complete establishment of which Rodney and Nelson had
crowned the work of Anson and Hawke, was now added a splendor of military renown far surpassing
that achieved by any other of the nations which had borne their share in the overthrow of Napoleon.

The increase of our resources is sufficiently shown by a single fact. At his accession George
III. found the kingdom engaged in the great seven years' war; one British army employed beyond
the Rhine, another in India; fleets traversing the seas in every direction, capturing the Havana,
in the West Indies; Manilla, in the East; and routing French squadrons in sight of their own
harbors. While, to maintain these varied armaments, supplies were voted by Parliament in 1761
to what Lord Stanhope calls "the unprecedented amount of almost twenty millions." In 1813 the
supplies reached nearly six times that amount,[182] and that prodigious sum was raised with
greater ease than the revenue of 1761, the interest on the necessary loans being also lower
than it had been on the former occasion.

The philosophical man of science will point with at least equal exultation to the great discoveries
in art and science; to the achievements of the mechanic, the engineer, and the chemist; to
the labors of Brindley and Arkwright and Watts, to which, indeed, this great expansion of the
resources and growth of the wealth of the country is principally owing.

While, as the preceding chapters of this work have been designed to show, our political progress
and advancement had been no less steady or valuable; yet, important from a constitutional point
of view as were many of the labors of our legislators in these sixty years, they are surpassed
in their influence on the future history of the nation, as well as in the reality and greatness
of the changes which were produced by them in the constitution, by the transactions of the
reigns of the next two sovereigns, though the two united scarcely equalled in their duration
a quarter of that of their venerable father.

It has been seen how Pitt was baffled in his efforts to remodel the House of Commons, and to
remove the disabilities under which the Roman Catholics labored, the reasons for which, even
granting that they had been sufficient to justify their original imposition, had, in his judgment,
long passed away. His pursuit of the other great object of his domestic policy, the emancipation
of trade from the shackles which impeded its universal development, was rudely interrupted
by the pressure of the war forced upon him by that very nation which he had desired to make
the first partner, if one may use such an expression, in the prosperity which he hoped to diffuse
by his commercial treaty with her. But, as in the case of other men in advance of their age,
the principles which he had asserted were destined to bear fruit at a later period. And the
mere fact of a change in the person of the sovereign seemed to make a change in the policy
hitherto pursued less unnatural.

Yet, memorable as the reforms which it witnessed were destined to make it, no reign ever commenced
with more sinister omens than that at which we have now arrived. The new King had not been
on the throne a month, when a conspiracy was discovered, surpassing in its treasonable atrocity
any that had been heard of in the kingdom since the days of the Gunpowder Plot; and, even before
those concerned in that foul crime had been brought to punishment, the public mind was yet
more generally and profoundly agitated by a scandal which, in one point of view, was still
more painful, as in some degree involving the whole kingdom in its disgrace.

