Lavender met Sheila in the evening, and he was yet undecided. Sometimes he fancied, when their
eyes met unexpectedly, that there was something wistful as well as friendly in her look: was
she too dreaming of the vague possibilities of the future? This was strange, too, that after
each of those little chance reveries she seemed to be moved by a resolution to be more than
usually affectionate toward her father, and would go round the table and place her hand on
his shoulder and talk to him. Perhaps these things were but delusions begotten of his own imaginings,
but the possibility of their being real agitated him not a little, and he scarcely dared to
think what might follow.

That evening Sheila sang, and all his half-formed resolutions vanished into air. He sat in
a corner of the curious, dimly-lit and old-fashioned chamber, and, lying back in the chair,
abandoned himself to dreams as Sheila sang the mystic songs of the northern coasts. There was
something strangely suggestive of the sea in the room itself, and all her songs were of the
sea. It was a smaller room than the large apartment in which they had dined, and it was filled
with curiosities from distant shores and with the strange captures made by the Borva fishermen.
Everywhere, too, were the trophies of Mackenzie's skill with rod and rifle. Deer's horns, seal
skins, stuffed birds, salmon in glass cases, masses of coral, enormous shells and a thousand
similar things made the little drawing-room a sort of grotto; but it was a grotto within hearing
of the sound of the sea, and there was no musty atmosphere in a room that was open all day
to the cold winds of the Atlantic.

With a smoking tumbler of whisky and water before him, the King of Borva sat at the table,
poring over a large volume containing plans for bridges. Ingram was seated at the piano, in
continual consultation with Sheila about her songs. Lavender, in this dusky corner, lay and
listened, with all sorts of fancies crowding in upon him as Sheila sang of the sad and wild
legends of her home. Was it by chance, then, he asked himself, that these songs seemed so frequently
to be the lamentation of a Highland girl for a fair-haired lover beyond the sea? First of all
she sang the "Wail of Dunevegan," and how strangely her voice thrilled with the sadness of
the song!--

  Morn, oh mantle thy smiles of gladness!
  Night, oh come with thy clouds of sadness!
  Earth, thy pleasures to me seem madness!
  Macleod, my leal love, since thou art gone.
        Dunevegan, oh! Dunevegan, oh!
        Dunevegan! Dunevegan!

It was as in a dream that he heard Ingram talking in a matter-of-fact way about the various
airs, and asking the meaning of certain lines of Gaelic to compare them with the stiff and
old-fashioned phrases of the translation. Surely this girl must have sat by the shore and waited
for her absent lover, or how could she sing with such feeling?--

  Say, my love, why didst thou tarry
        Far over the deep sea?
  Knew'st thou not my heart was weary,
  Heard'st thou not how I sighed for thee!
  Did no light wind bear my wild despair
        Far over the deep sea?

He could imagine that beautiful face grown pale and wild with anguish. And then some day, as
she went along the lonely island, with all the light of hope gone out of her eyes, and with
no more wistful glances cast across the desolate sea, might not the fair-haired lover come
at last, and leap ashore to clasp her in his arms, and hide the wonder-stricken eyes and the
glad face in his bosom? But Sheila sang of no such meeting. The girl was always alone, her
lover gone away from her across the sea or into the wilds.

  Oh long on the mountain he tarries, he tarries:
    Why tarries the youth with the bright yellow hair:
  Oh long on the mountain he tarries, he tarries:
    Why seeks he the hill when his flock is not there?

That was what he heard her sing, until it seemed to him that her singing was a cry to be taken
away from these melancholy surroundings of sea and shore, and carried to the secure and comfortable
South, to be cherished and tended and loved. Why should this girl be left to live a cruel life
up in these wilds, and to go through the world without knowing anything of the happy existence
that might have been hers? It was well for harder and stronger natures to withstand the buffetings
of wind and rain, and to be indifferent to the melancholy influences of the lonely sea and
the darkness of the northern winters; but for her--for this beautiful, sensitive, tender-hearted
girl--surely some other and gentler fate was in store. What he, at least, could do he would.
He would lay his life at her feet; and if she chose to go away from this bleak and cruel home
to the sunnier South, would not he devote himself, as never a man had given himself to a woman
before, to the constant duty of enriching her life with all the treasures of admiration and
respect and love?

It was getting late, and presently Sheila retired. As she bade "Good-night" to him, Lavender
fancied her manners was a little less frank toward him than usual, and her eyes were cast down.
All the light of the room seemed to go with her when she went.

Mackenzie mixed another tumbler of toddy, and began to expound to Ingram his views upon deer-forests
and sheep-farms. Ingram lit a cigar, stretched out his legs and proceeded to listen with much
complacent attention. As for Lavender, he sat a while, hearing vaguely the sounds of his companions'
voices, and then, saying he was a trifle tired, he left and went to his own room. The moon
was then shining clearly over Suainabhal, and a pathway of glimmering light lay across Loch Roag.

He went to bed, but not to sleep. He had resolved to ask Sheila Mackenzie to be his wife, and
a thousand conjectures as to the future were floating about his imagination. In the first place,
would she listen to his prayer? She knew nothing of him beyond what she might have heard from
Ingram. He had had no opportunity, during their friendly talking, of revealing to her what
he thought of herself; but might she not have guessed it? Then her father--what action might
not this determined old man take in the matter? Would his love for his daughter prompt him
to consider her happiness alone? All these things, however, were mere preliminaries, and the
imagination of the young man soon overleapt them. He began to draw pictures of Sheila as his
wife in their London home, among his friends, at Hastings, at Ascot, in Hyde Park. What would
people say of the beautiful sea-princess with the proud air, the fearless eyes and the gentle
and musical voice? Hour after hour he lay and could not sleep: a fever of anticipation, of
fear and of hope combined seemed to stir in his blood and throb in his brain. At last, in a
paroxysm of unrest, he rose, hastily dressed himself, stole down stairs, and made his way out
into the cool air of the night.

It could not be the coming dawn that revealed to him the outlines of the shore and the mountains
and the loch? The moon had already sunk in the south-west: not from her came that strange clearness
by which all these objects were defined. Then the young man bethought him of what Sheila had
said of the twilight in these latitudes, and, turning to the north, he saw there a pale glow
which looked as if it were the last faint traces of some former sunset. All over the rest of
the heavens something of the same metallic clearness reigned, so that the stars were pale,
and a gray hue lay over the sea, and over the island, the white bays, the black rocks and the
valleys, in which lay a scarcely perceptible mist.

He left the house and went vaguely down to the sea. The cold air, scented strongly with the
seaweed, blew about him, and was sweet and fresh on the lips and the forehead. How strange
was the monotonous sound of the waves, mournful and distant, like the sound in a seashell!
That alone spoke in the awful stillness of the night, and it seemed to be telling of those
things which the silent stars and the silent hills had looked down on for ages and ages. Did
Sheila really love this terrible thing, with its strange voice talking in the night, or did
she not secretly dread it and shudder at it when she sang of all that old sadness? There was
ringing in his ears the "Wail of Dunevegan" as he listened for a while to the melancholy plashing
of the waves all around the lonely shores; and there was a cry of "Dunevegan, oh! Dunevegan,
oh!" weaving itself curiously with those wild pictures of Sheila in London which were still
floating before his imagination.

He walked away around the coast, seeing almost nothing of the objects around him, but conscious
of the solemn majesty of the mountains and the stillness of the throbbing stars. He could have
called aloud, "Sheila! Sheila!" but that all the place seemed associated with her presence;
and might he not turn suddenly to find her figure standing by him, with her face grown wild
and pale as it was in the ballad, and a piteous and awful look in her eyes? Did the figure
accuse him? He scarcely dared look round, lest there should be a phantom Sheila appealing to
him for compassion, and complaining against him with her speechless eyes for a wrong that he
could not understand. He fled from her, but he knew she was there; and all the love in his
heart went out to her as if beseeching her to go away and forsake him, and forgive him the
injury of which she seemed to accuse him. What wrong had he done her that he should be haunted
by this spectre, that did not threaten, but only looked piteously toward him with eyes full
of entreaty and pain?

He left the shore, and blindly made his way up to the pasture-land above, careless whither
he went. He knew not how long he had been away from the house, but here was a small fresh-water
lake set round about with rushes, and far over there in the east lay a glimmer of the channels
between Borva and Lewis. But soon there was another light in the east, high over the low mists
that lay along the land. A pale blue-gray arose in the cloudless sky, and the stars went out
one by one. The mists were seen to lie in thicker folds along the desolate valleys. Then a
faintly yellow whiteness stole up into the sky, and broadened and widened, and behold! the
little moorland loch caught a reflection of the glare, and there was a streak of crimson here
and there on the dark-blue surface of the water. Loch Roag began to brighten. Suainabhal was
touched with rose-red on its eastern slopes. The Atlantic seemed to rise out of its purple
sleep with the new light of a new dawn; and then there was a chirruping of birds over the heath,
and the first shafts of the sunlight ran along the surface of the sea, and lit up the white
wavelets that were breaking on the beach. The new day struck upon him with a strange sense
of wonder. Where was he? Whither had gone the wild visions of the night, the feverish dread,
the horrible forebodings? The strong mental emotion that had driven him out now produced its
natural reaction: he looked about in a dazed fashion at the revelation of light around him,
and felt himself trembling with weakness. Slowly, blindly and hopelessly he set to walk back
across the island, with the sunlight of the fresh morning calling into life ten thousand audible
things of the moorland around him.

And who was this who stood at the porch of the house in the clear sunshine? Not the pale and
ghastly creature who had haunted him during those wild hours, but Sheila herself, singing some
snatches of a song, and engaged in watering the two bushes of sweetbrier at the gate. How bright
and roseate and happy she looked, with the fine color of her face lit up by the fresh sunlight,
and the brisk breeze from the sea stirring now and again the loose masses of her hair! Haggard
and faint as he was, he would have startled her if he had gone up to her then. He dared not
approach her. He waited until she had gone round to the gable of the house to water the plants
there, and then he stole into the house and up stairs, and threw himself upon the bed. And
outside he still heard Sheila singing lightly to herself as she went about her ordinary duties,
little thinking in how strange and wild a drama her wraith had that night taken part.

[TO BE CONTINUED]

[Footnote 12: Pronounced Argyud-chark; literally, "hen-money."]

MEDICAL EXPERT EVIDENCE.

There is scarcely any position of more responsibility than that of the medical expert in cases
of alleged poisoning. Often he stands with practically absolute power between society and the
accused--the former looking to him for the proof of the crime and for the protection which
discovery brings; the latter relying upon him for the vindication of his innocence. How profound
and complete, then, should be his knowledge! how thorough his skill! how pure and spotless
his integrity! how unimpeachable his results! Yet recently the humiliating spectacle has been
repeatedly presented of expert swearing against expert, until the question at issue was apparently
degraded into one of personal feeling or of professional reputation. So far has this gone that
both judicial and public opinion seems to be demanding the abolition of expert testimony. The
medical expert must, however, remain an essential feature in our criminal procedures, partaking
as he does of the functions of the lawyer, inasmuch as he has, to some extent, the right to
argue before the jury, partaking also of the judicial character in that it is his duty to express
an opinion upon evidence, but differing from both judge and advocate in that as a witness he
testifies to facts. Were the attempt made to do away with his functions, there would be an
end to just convictions in the class of cases spoken of, because no one would be qualified
to say whether any given death had been produced by poison or by a natural cause.

In many matters that come under the notice of medical experts there is room for honest differences
of opinion. Of such nature are questions of sanity and insanity. It must be remembered that
these are, after all, relative terms. Reason leaves its seat by almost imperceptible steps.
Who can determine with exactness the line that separates eccentricity from madness--responsibility
from irresponsibility? Moreover, the phenomena upon which opinion is based are, in such cases,
so hidden, so complex, so obscure, that in the half-lights of a few short interviews they will
often be seen differently by different observers.

In scarcely any of its parts does toxicology belong to this class of subjects--certainly not
at all in so far as it deals with mineral poisons. To a great extent it is a fixed science--a
science whose boundaries may be widened, whose processes may be rendered more delicate, but
whose principles are in great measure settled for ever. Not in the imperfections of the science,
but in the habits of the American medical profession and in the methods of our criminal procedures,
lies the origin of the evils complained of.

Some of the causes of the present difficulties are readily to be seen. One is the common ignorance
of legal or forensic medicine among the members of the profession. In none of our medical colleges
is legal medicine taught as a part of the regular course or as an essential branch of study.
Consequently, when the student graduates he has only heard a few passing allusions to the subject
from professors of other branches. Unfortunately, this is more or less true of many other medical
subjects of importance: helped out, however, by his mother wit, and impelled by necessity,
the imperfectly-educated graduate after a time becomes very generally a skillful practitioner.
During the period of growth his daily needs govern the direction of his studies, which are
therefore more or less exclusively confined to the so-called practical branches. Forensic medicine
is not one of these, poison cases are comparatively rare, and to be called upon to give a definite
opinion upon such matters before a legal tribunal happens not once in the lifetime of most
medical men. Consequently, to a great part of the American medical profession legal medicine
is a veritable terra incognita.

Moreover, the whole drift of modern medicine is toward a division of labor, and forensic medicine
is more widely separated from the ordinary specialties of the science than these are from one
another. In a case of delicate eye-surgery who would value the opinion of a man whose attention
had been devoted mainly to thoracic diseases? What specialist of the latter character would
even offer an opinion? Yet physicians who acknowledge that they have paid no especial attention
to toxicology do not hesitate to give the most positive opinions upon the most delicate questions
of that science. Men who would, as in honor bound, ask for a consultation in any case of serious
sickness outside of their line of private practice, on the witness-stand put forth with the
utmost boldness their ignorant crudities, careless or forgetful of the fact that they may be
imperiling the life of an innocent human being. On the trial of Mrs. Wharton for the attempted
murder of Mr. Van Ness, Dr. Williams asserted that there are peculiar characteristic symptoms
or groups of symptoms of tartar emetic poisoning;[13] and both he and Dr. Chew--who with frankness
acknowledged that he had not especially studied toxicology--did most positively recognize tartar
emetic as the sole possible cause of certain symptoms which were but a little beyond the line
of medicinal action, and for which obviously possible natural cause existed. Contrast these
bold opinions with the cautious statement of a man who had given a lifetime of study to this
particular subject. On the trial of Madeleine Smith, Professor Christison--at that time the
first toxicologist of England--stated that if in any case the symptoms and post-mortem appearances
corresponded exactly with those caused by arsenic, he should be led to suspect poisoning.

Another source of mischief lies in the fact that the law does not recognize the well-established
principles of forensic medicine, and consequently the books in which these principles are laid
down by the highest authorities are excluded by the courts, while the vivâ voce evidence of
any medical man, however ignorant on such points, is admitted as that of an expert.

