115
  Folk Lore:--Lammer Beads--Engraved Warming-pans--Queen
  Elizabeth's Christening Cloth                               115
  Minor Notes:--The Breeches Bible--Origin of the
  present Race of English--True Blue--"By Hook or
  by Crook"--Record of Existing Monuments                     115

  QUERIES:--
  Five Queries and Notes on Books, Men, and Authors           117
  Minor Queries:--The Witches' Prayer--Water-buckets
  given to Sheriffs--A Cracow Pike--Meaning
  of Waste-book--Machell's MS. Collections for
  Westmoreland and Cumberland--Decking Churches at
  Christmas--Coinage of Germany--Titles of Peers
  who are Bishops--At Sixes and Sevens--Shaking
  Hands--George Steevens--Extradition--Singing of
  Metrical Psalms and Hymns in Churches--Ormonde
  Portraits--Tradescant--Arthur's Seat and Salisbury
  Craigs--Lincoln Missal                                      118

  REPLIES:--
  Meaning of Eisell, by Samuel Hickson and S. W. Singer       119
  Descent of Henry IV.                                        120
  Fossil Elk of Ireland                                       121
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Coverdale Bible--Epitaph--
  Probabilism--Old Hewson the Cobbler--Rodolph
  Gualter--Burning the Hill--"Fronte capillata," &c.--Time
  when Herodotus wrote--Herstmonceux Castle--Camden
  and Curwen Families--Joan Sanderson, or the Cushion
  Dance--North Sides of Churchyards--"Antiquitas
  Sæculi Juventus Mundi"--Umbrella--Form
  of Prayer at the Healing                                    122

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      126
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                127
  Notices to Correspondents                                   127
  Advertisements                                              127

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

DEFENCE OF THE EXECUTION OF MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS.

Allow me to supply a deficiency in my last volume of Extracts from the Registers of the Stationers'
Company, printed by the Shakspeare Society. It occurs at p. 224., in reference to an entry
of 11th Feb., 1587, in the following terms:

    "John Wyndett. Lycensed alsoe to him, under the B. of London hand and
    Mr. Denham, An Analogie or Resemblance betweene Johane, Queene of
    Naples, and Marye, Queene of Scotland."

In the note appended to this entry I point out a mistake by Herbert (ii. 1126. of his History
of Printing), who fancied that the Defence of the Execution of Mary Queen of Scots, and Kyffin's
Blessedness of Britain, were the same work; and I add that "the Analogy here entered is not
recorded among the productions of John Windet's press." This is true; but Mr. David Laing,
of Edinburgh, has kindly taken the trouble to send me, all the way from Scotland, a very rare
volume, which proves that the Analogy in question was printed by Windet in consequence of the
registration, and that it was, in fact, part of a volume which that printer put forth under
the following title:

    "A Defence of the Honorable Sentence of Execution of the Queene of
    Scots: exampled with Analogies, and Diverse Presidents of Emperors,
    Kings, and Popes. With the Opinions of learned Men in the Point, &c.;
    together with the Answere to certaine Objections made by the favourites
    of the late Scottish Queene, &c. At London, printed by John Windet."

