At 3.48 British and German battle cruisers opened fire. According to Beatty's report the range
at this moment was 18,500 yards. Beatty then turned to starboard, assuming a course nearly
parallel to that of Hipper. Almost immediately, three minutes after the first salvo, the Lion,
the Tiger, and the Princess Royal were hit by shells. In these opening minutes the fire of
the Germans seems to have been fast and astonishingly accurate. The Lion was hit repeatedly,
and at four o'clock the roof of one of her turrets was blown off. It is said that the presence
of mind and heroic self-sacrifice of an officer saved the ship from the fate that subsequently
overwhelmed two of her consorts. By this time the range had decreased to 16,000 yards (British
reckoning) and Beatty shifted his course more to the south to confuse the enemy's fire control.
Apparently this move did not succeed in its purpose for at 4.06 a salvo struck the Indefatigable
on a line with her after turret, and exploded a magazine. As she staggered out of column and
began sinking, another salvo smashed into her forward decks and she rolled over and sank like
a stone.

About this time the Fifth Battle Squadron came into action, but it was not able to do effective
service. The range was extreme, about 20,000 yards, and being some distance astern of the battle
cruisers, on account of its inferior speed, it had to contend with the battle smoke of the
squadron ahead as well as the gradually thickening atmospheric conditions. In addition the
Germans frequently laid smoke screens and zigzagged. Evan-Thomas's division never saw more
than two enemy ships at a time.

The shift of course taken by Beatty at four o'clock, accompanied possibly by a corresponding
shift of Hipper, opened the range so far in a few minutes that fire slackened on both sides.
Beatty then swung to port in order to close to effective range. At 4.15 twelve of his destroyers,
acting on the general order to attack when conditions were favorable, dashed out toward the
German line. At the same instant German destroyers, to the number of fifteen accompanied by
the light cruiser Regensburg, advanced toward the British line, both forces maneuvering to
get on the bows of the opposing battle cruisers. For this purpose the British flotilla was
better placed because their battle cruisers were well ahead of the Germans. The German destroyers,
therefore, concentrated their efforts on the battleship division, which turned away to avoid
the torpedoes. In numbers the advantage lay with the Germans, and a fiercely contested action
took place between the lines conducted with superb gallantry on both sides. The Germans succeeded
in breaking up the British attack at a cost of two destroyers. Two of the British destroyers
also were rendered unmanageable and sank later when the High Seas Fleet arrived on the scene.

Meanwhile, at 4.26, just before the destroyers clashed, a salvo struck the Queen Mary, blew
up a magazine, and she disappeared with practically all on board. Thus the second of Beatty's
battle cruisers was sent to the bottom with tragic suddenness.

At 4.38, Commodore Goodenough, commanding the Second Light Cruiser Squadron, who was scouting
ahead of the battle cruisers, reported that the German battle fleet was in sight steering north,
and gave its position. Beatty at once called in his destroyers and turned his ships in succession,
sixteen points to starboard, ordering Evan-Thomas to turn similarly. Thus the capital ships
turned right about on the opposite course, the battleships following the cruisers as before,
and all heading for the main fleet which was then about fifty miles away to the north. Commodore
Goodenough at this point used his initiative in commendable fashion. Without orders he kept
on to the south to establish contact with the German battle fleet and hung on its flanks near
enough to report its position to the commander in chief. He underwent a heavy fire, but handled
his frail ships so skillfully as to escape serious loss. At the same time the constant maneuvering
he was forced to perform or a defect in the British system of communication made his reports
of bearing seriously inaccurate. Whatever the cause, this error created a difficulty for the
commander in chief, who, fifty miles away, was trying to locate the enemy for attack by the
Grand Fleet.

The Second Phase

The northward run of the British advance force and the German advance force, followed by their
main fleet, was uneventful. The situation was at this stage exactly reversed. Beatty was endeavoring
to lead the German forces into the guns of the Grand Fleet, while ostensibly he was attempting
to escape from a superior force, much as Hipper had been doing with relation to Scheer during
the first phase. Beatty's four remaining battle cruisers continued to engage the five German
battle cruisers, at a range of 14,000 yards, assisted by the two leading ships of Evan-Thomas's
Battle Squadron. The other two battleships engaged the head of the advancing German battle
fleet at the extreme range of 19,000 yards as often as they could make out their enemy. The
visibility grew worse and apparently neither side scored on the other.

As the British main fleet was reported somewhat to the east of Beatty's position, he bore toward
that quarter; and Hipper, to avoid being "T-d" by his enemy, turned to the eastward correspondingly.
The mistiness increased to such a degree that shortly after five o'clock Beatty lost sight
of the enemy's battle cruisers and ceased fire for half an hour. Between 5.40 and six o'clock,
however, conditions were better and firing was opened again by the British ships, apparently
with good effect. Meanwhile clashes had already taken place between the light cruiser Chester,
attached to the Third Battle Squadron of the main fleet, and the light cruisers of the enemy,
which were far in advance of their battle cruisers.

The Third Phase

We have already noted that as soon as Jellicoe learned of the presence of the enemy he ordered
Hood, with the Third Battle Cruiser Squadron, to cut off the German retreat to the Skagerrak
and to support Beatty. Hood's course had taken him well to the east of where the action was
in progress. At 5.40 he saw the flashes of guns far to the northwest, and immediately changed
course in that direction. Fifteen minutes later he was able to open fire on German light cruisers,
with his four destroyers darting ahead to attack with torpedoes. These light cruisers, which
had just driven off the Chester with heavy losses, discharged torpedoes at Hood's battle cruisers
and turned away. The latter shifted helm to avoid them and narrowly missed being hit. One torpedo
indeed passed under the Invincible.

At this point another group of four German light cruisers appeared and Hood's destroyers advanced
to attack them. The fire of the cruisers damaged two destroyers though not before one of them,
the Shark, had torpedoed the German cruiser Rostock. The Shark herself was in turn torpedoed
and sunk by a German destroyer. At about the same time action had begun between the ships of
the armored cruiser squadron under Arbuthnot and another squadron of German light cruisers.

A moment later (at 5.56) Beatty sighted the leaders of the Grand Fleet and knew that contact
with his support was established. At once he changed course to about due east and put on full
speed in order to head off the German line, and by taking position to the eastward, allow the
battle fleet to form line astern of his battle cruisers. Such an overwhelming force was now
concentrated on the German light cruisers that they turned back. Of their number the Wiesbaden
had been disabled by a concentration of fire and the Rostock torpedoed. Hipper then made a
turn of 180° with his battle cruisers in order to get back to the support of the battleships
which he had left far to the rear. Then he turned round again, and continued to lead the German
advance. All this time he seems to have had no suspicion that the Grand Fleet was in the neighborhood.

As Beatty dashed across the front of the approaching battle fleet he sighted Hood's Third Battle
Cruiser Squadron ahead of him and signaled him to take station ahead. Accordingly Hood countermarched
and led Beatty's line in the Invincible. Evan-Thomas was by this time so far in the rear of
the speedier battle cruisers that he was unable to follow with Beatty, and in order to avoid
confusion with the oncoming battle fleet he turned left 90° in order to form astern of the
Sixth Battle Division, by this move, however, leaving Beatty's cruisers unsupported. Meanwhile
the armored cruisers of Arbuthnot were already under fire from Hipper's squadron and suffering
severely. At 6.16 the Defense, the flagship of the squadron, blew up; the Warrior was badly
disabled, and the Black Prince was so crippled as to be sunk during the night action. As Evan-Thomas
made his turn, one of his battleships, the Warspite, was struck by a shell that jammed her
steering gear in such a way as to send her head on toward the Germans. She served to shield
the Warrior from destruction, but suffered thirty hits from heavy projectiles before she was
brought under control and taken out of action.

Between six and 6.15 Jellicoe received bearings from Vice Admiral Burney (of the Sixth Battle
Division), Evan-Thomas, and Beatty which enabled him for the first time to plot accurately
the position of the German battle fleet. This information revealed the fact that previous plotting
based on bearings coming from Goodenough and others was seriously wrong. The Germans were twelve
miles to the west of where they were supposed to be. Jellicoe then formed line of battle, not
on the starboard wing, which was nearest the head of the German advance, but on the port wing,
which was farthest away, and speed was reduced to 14 knots in order to enable the battle cruisers
to take station at the head of the line. Indeed some of the ships in the rear or sixth division
had to stop their engines to avoid collision during deployment. By this time the ships of the
sixth division began to come under the shells of the German battle fleet and they returned
the fire. By half past six all sixteen of the German dreadnoughts were firing at the British
lines, the slow predreadnoughts being so far to the rear as to be unable to take part. The
battleship fire, however, neither at this point nor later showed the extraordinary accuracy
displayed by the battle cruisers at the beginning, but this may possibly be attributed to the
gathering mistiness that hung over the sea, darkened by the low-lying smoke from the host of ships.

As soon as Scheer realized that he had not only run right into the arms of the Grand Fleet,
but lay in the worst tactical position imaginable with an overwhelming force concentrated on
the head of his line, he turned away to escape. The battle cruisers (at 6.30) swung away sharply
from east to south, the ships turning in succession. Meanwhile the torpedo flotillas tried
to cover the turn by a gallant attack on the British battle line. At the same time smoke screens
also were laid to cover the retirement. The Invincible, Hood's flagship, which was leading
the British line, was at this juncture struck by a shell that penetrated her armor and exploded
a magazine. The ship instantly broke in two and went to the bottom, and only four officers
and two men were saved. Almost at the same instant the German battle cruiser Lützow, Hipper's
flagship, was so badly disabled by shells and torpedo that she fell out of line helpless. Hipper
managed, however, to board a destroyer and two hours later succeeded in shifting his flag to
the Moltke.

At 6.35 Scheer performed a difficult maneuver that the fleet had practiced for just the situation
that existed at this time. He wheeled his battleships simultaneously to starboard, forming
line again on a westerly course. Twenty minutes later, finding that he was no longer under
fire from the Grand Fleet, he repeated the maneuver, the ships turning again to starboard and
forming line ahead again on an easterly, then southerly course. These changes of course were
made under cover of smoke screens and were not observed by the British.

By this time the Grand Fleet had formed line of battle on a southeasterly course and by 7.10
its leaders were concentrating their fire on the head of the German line, which was now caught
under an overwhelming superiority of force. Unfortunately for the Germans the visibility conditions
at this time were worse for them than for their enemy, for while the British ships were nearly
or quite invisible, the Germans every now and then stood silhouetted against the western sky.
The British fire at this time was heavy and accurate. The German fleet seemed marked for destruction.

For Scheer it was now imperative to withdraw if he could. Accordingly at this juncture he sent
out a flotilla of destroyers in a desperate effort to cover the retreat of his fleet. They
fired a number of torpedoes at the English battle line, and retired with the loss of one boat.
Their stroke succeeded, for Jellicoe turned his whole line of battleships away to avoid the
torpedoes. Beatty, holding his course at the head of the line, signaled Admiral Jerram of the
King George V to follow astern, but he was evidently bound to the orders of his commander in
chief. For the second time that day Beatty was left unsupported in his fight at the head of
the line.

Meanwhile Scheer's capital ships had simultaneously wheeled away in line to the westward under
cover of the torpedo attacks and smoke screens made by the destroyers. This was the third time
within an hour that they had effected this maneuver, and the skill with which the battleships
managed these turns in line under a rain of fire speaks well for German seamanship. Meanwhile,
to rëenforce the covering movement made by the destroyers, Scheer sent out his battle cruisers
in a sortie against Beatty, who was pressing hard on the head of the German line. The following
account from Commander von Hase of the Derfflinger, which led this sortie, is interesting not
only for its description of what occurred at this time but also as a picture of a personal
experience of the terrific fire that the battle cruisers of both sides had to sustain throughout
the greater part of the engagement. It was on them that the brunt of the fighting fell. The
narrative is quoted from the pages of the Naval and Military Record:

"By now our Commander-in-Chief had realized the danger threatening our fleet, the van of which
was enclosed in a semicircle by the hostile fleet. We were, in fact, absolutely 'in the soup'
(in absoluten Wurstkessel)! There was only one way to get clear of this tactically disadvantageous
position: to turn the whole fleet about and steer on an opposite course. First to evade this
dangerous encirclement. But the maneuver must be unobserved and executed without interference.
The battle-cruisers and torpedo-boats must cover the movement of the fleet. At about[1] 9.12
the Commander-in-Chief made the signal to alter course, and almost simultaneously made by W/T
[wireless] the historic signal to the battle-cruisers and torpedo-boats: 'Charge the enemy!'
(Ran an den Feind!) Without turning a hair the captain ordered 'Full speed ahead, course south-east.'
Followed by the Seydlitz, Molke, and Von der Tann, we steamed at first south-east, then, from
9.15 onward, directly towards the head of the enemy's line.

[Footnote 1: There was a difference of two hours in time between the German and the English
standard.]

"And now an infernal fire was opened on us, especially on the Derfflinger, as leading ship.
Several ships were concentrating their fire upon us. I selected a target and fired as rapidly
as possible. The range closed from 12,000 to 8,000 meters, and still we steamed full speed
ahead into this inferno of fire, presenting a splendid target to the enemy, while he himself
was very difficult to see. Salvo after salvo fell in our immediate vicinity, and shell after
shell struck our ship. They were the most exciting minutes. I could no longer communicate with
Lt. von Stosch (who was in the foretop control), as the telephone and voice-pipes had been
shot away, so I had to rely an my own observations to direct the fire. At 9.13, previous to
which all four 12 in. turrets were in action, a serious catastrophe occurred. A 15 in. shell
penetrated the armor of No. 3 turret and exploded inside. The gallant turret captain, Lt. von
Boltenstern, had both his legs torn off, and with him perished practically the entire guns'
crew. The explosion ignited three cartridges, flames from which reached the working chamber,
where eight more cartridges were set on fire, and passed down to the magazine, igniting still
more cartridges. They burned fiercely, the flames roaring high above the turret--but they burned
only, they did not explode--as our enemy's cartridges had done--and that saved the ship! Still,
the effect of the burning cartridges was catastrophic; the flames killed everything within
their reach. Of the 78 men of the turret crew only five escaped, some badly wounded, by crawling
out through the holes for expelling empty cartridge cases. The remaining 73 men died instantly.
A few seconds after this catastrophe another disaster befell us. A 15 in. shell pierced the
shield of No. 4 turret and burst inside, causing frightful destruction. With the exception
of one man, who was blown out of the turret hatch by the blast of air, the entire crew, including
all the men in the magazines and shell-rooms, 80 souls in all, were instantly killed. All the
cartridges which had been taken out of their metal cases were ignited, so that flames were
now shooting sky-high from both the after turrets....

"The enemy's shooting was splendid. Shell after shell crashed into us, and my heart stood still
as I thought of what must be happening inside the ship. My thoughts were rudely disturbed.
Suddenly it was to us as if the world had come to an end. A terrific roar, a mighty explosion,
and then darkness fell upon us. We shook under a tremendous blow, which lifted the conning-tower
bodily off its base, to which it sank back vibrating. A heavy shell had struck the gunnery
control station about 20 inches from me. The shell burst, but did not penetrate because it
had hit the thick armor at an angle, but huge pieces of plating were torn away.... We found,
however, that all the artillery connections were undamaged. Splinters had penetrated the lookout
slits of the conning-tower, wounding several people inside. The explosion had forced open the
door, which jammed, and two men were unable to move it. But help from an unexpected quarter
was at hand. Again we heard a terrific roar and crash, and with the noise of a thunderbolt
a 15 in. shell exploded beneath the bridge. The blast of air swept away everything that was
not firmly riveted down, and the chart-house disappeared bodily. But the astounding thing was
that this same air pressure closed the door of the conning-tower! The Englishman was polite;
having first opened the door, he carefully shut it again for us. I searched with my glass for
the enemy, but, although the salvos were still falling about us, we could see practically nothing
of him; all that was really visible were the huge, golden-red flames from the muzzles of his
guns.... Without much hope of hurting the enemy I fired salvo after salvo from the forward
turrets. I could feel how our shooting was calming the nerves of the crew. Had we not fired
at this moment the whole ship's company would have been overpowered by a great despair, for
everyone knew that a few minutes more of this would finish us. But so long as we fired things
could not be so bad with us. The medium guns fired also, but only two of the six 5.9's on one
side were still in action. The fourth gun was split from end to end by a burst in the muzzle,
and the third was shot to pieces...."

The battle-cruisers were recalled just in time--so it would appear--to save them from annihilation,
and Com. von Hase proceeds:

"All hands were now busy quelling the fires. Thick clouds of yellow gas still poured from both
after turrets, but the flooding of the magazines soon got rid of this. None of us had believed
that a ship could stand so many heavy hits. Some twenty 15 in. hits were counted after the
battle, and about the same number of bad hits from smaller calibers. The Lützow was out of
sight (she sank later), but the Seydlitz, Moltke, and Von der Tann were still with us. They,
too, had been badly punished, the Seydlitz worst of all. Flames still roared from one of her
turrets, and all the other ships were burning. The bow of the Seydlitz was deep in the water.
Every battle-cruiser had suffered severe casualties.... But the death charge had achieved its
purpose by covering the retreat of the battle fleet.... Our ship was very heavily battered,
and in many places the compartments were mere heaps of débris. But vital parts were not hit,
and, thanks to the strong armor, the engines, boilers, steering gear, and nearly all auxiliaries
were undamaged. For a long time the engine-room was filled with noxious fumes, necessitating
the use of gas masks. The entire ship was littered with thousands of large and small shell
splinters, among which we found two practically undamaged 15 in. shell caps, which were later
used in the wardroom as wine coolers. The belt armour was pierced several times, but either
the leaks were stopped or the inflow of water was localized in small compartments. In Wilhelmshaven
we buried our dead, nearly 200 in all."

By 8 o'clock the German battleships had vanished, with the British steering westward by divisions
in pursuit. But never again did the two battle fleets regain touch with each other. Occasional
contact with an enemy vessel was made by other units of Jellicoe's force. About 8.20 another
destroyer attack was threatened, and again Jellicoe swerved away, at the same time, however,
sending the Fourth Light Cruiser Squadron and two destroyer flotillas, which succeeded in breaking
up the attempt. At 8.30 he reformed his fleet in column and continued on a southwesterly course
until 9 o'clock.

Fourth Phase

As darkness came on, Jellicoe, declining to risk his ships under conditions most favorable
to torpedo attack, arranged his battleships in four squadrons a mile apart, with destroyer
flotillas five miles astern, and sent a mine-layer to lay a mine field in the neighborhood
of the Vyl lightship, covering the route over which the Germans were expected to pass if they
attempted to get home via the Horn Reef. He then headed southeast. Beatty also drew off from
pursuit with his battle cruisers. Jellicoe's plan was to avoid a general night action, but
to hold such a position as to compel the Germans to fight again the following morning in order
to reach their bases. During the night (between ten and 2.35) there were several sharp conflicts,
mainly between the destroyers and light cruisers of the opposing fleets, with considerable
loss on both sides. On the British side, two armored cruisers, Black Prince and Warrior, went
down--both crippled by damages sustained during the day--and five destroyers. Six others were
severely damaged. On the German side, the battle cruiser Lützow sank as a result of her injuries,
the predreadnought battleship Pommern was blown up by a torpedo, three light cruisers were
sunk, and four or five other ships suffered from torpedo or mine.

The contacts made by British destroyers and cruisers confirm the accounts of the Germans as
to the course of their fleet during the night. About nine o'clock Scheer changed course sharply
from west to southeast and cut through the rear of the British fleet. At dawn, about 2.40,
he was twenty miles to eastward of Jellicoe on the road to Wilhelmshaven. At noon the greater
part of the German fleet was safe in port. Some of the lighter ships, to escape the assaults
of the British destroyers during the night, headed north and got home by way of the Skagerrak
and the Kiel Canal.

Jellicoe had avoided a night pursuit for the sake of fighting on better terms the next morning,
but at dawn he found his destroyers scattered far and wide. Judging it unwise to pursue the
High Seas Fleet without a screening force, and discovering by directional wireless that it
was already south of Horn Reef and in the neighborhood of the mine fields, he gave up the idea
of renewing the engagement and turned north. He spent the forenoon in sweeping the scene of
the previous day's fighting, collecting his dispersed units, and then returned to his bases.

The claim of victory, which was promptly and loudly made by the German press, is absurd enough.
After the Grand Fleet arrived there could be only one thought for the Germans and that was
a fighting retreat. Nevertheless, they had every reason to be proud of what they had done.
They had met a force superior by a ratio of about 8 to 5 and had escaped after inflicting nearly
twice as much damage as they had sustained. These losses may be compared by means of the following
table[1]:

BRITISH, Three Battle Cruisers,  QUEEN MARY     26,350 tons
                                 INDEFATIGABLE  18,800  "
                                 INVINCIBLE     17,250  "

         Three Armored Cruisers, DEFENSE        14,600  "
                                 WARRIOR        13,550  "
                                 BLACK PRINCE   13,350  "

         Eight Destroyers,       TIPPERARY       1,430  "
                                 NESTOR            890  "
                                 NOMAD             890  "
                                 TURBULENT       1,100  "
                                 FORTUNE           965  "
                                 ARDENT            935  "
                                 SHARK             935  "
                                 SPARROWHAWK       935  "
                                               ------------
                                 Total         111,980 tons

GERMANS, One Battle Cruiser      LUETZOW        26,180 tons
         One Pre-dreadnought,    POMMERN        13,200  "
         Four Light Cruisers,    WIESBADEN       5,400  "
                                 ELBING          4,500  "
                                 ROSTOCK         4,900  "
                                 FRAUENLOB       2,700  "

         Five Destroyers,        V-4               570  "
                                 V-48              750  "
                                 V-27              640  "
                                 V-29              640  "
                                 S-33              700  "
                                               ------------
                                 Total          60,180 tons

Personnel, killed and wounded: BRITISH, about 6,600: GERMANS, 3,076.

[Footnote 1: Figures in these tables taken from Lieut. Comdr. H. H. Frost, U. S. N., U. S.
Naval Institute Proceedings, Jan., 1920, p. 84.]

With all allowance for the poor visibility conditions and the deepening twilight, it must be
admitted also that Scheer handled his ships with great skill. Caught in a noose by an overwhelming
force, he disentangled himself by means of the torpedo attacks of his destroyer flotillas and
turned away under cover of their smoke screens. After nightfall he boldly cut through the rear
of the British fleet in battle line, and reached his base in safety with the great bulk of
his ships. Meanwhile at practically all stages of the fighting German gunnery was both rapid
and accurate, the seamanship was admirable, and there was no lack of courage of the highest order.

As to material, Admiral Jellicoe notes the superiority of the German fleet in range-finding
devices, searchlights, smoke screens, a star shell--unknown to the British and invaluable for
night fighting--and in the armor piercing quality of the shells. Moreover the Germans were
completely equipped with systems of director firing, while the British were not. According
to Admiral Sir Percy Scott,[1] "at the Battle of Jutland ... the commander in chief had only
six ships of his fleet completely fitted with director firing ... he had not a single cruiser
in the fleet fitted for director firing."

[Footnote 1: FIFTY YEARS IN THE ROYAL NAVY, p. 278.]

The greatest superiority of all probably lay in the structural features of the newer German
ships. For some years prior to the war Admiral von Tirpitz had devoted himself to the problem
of under water protection, to localize the effect of torpedo and mine on the hull of a ship.
To quote the words of von Tirpitz:[2]

[Footnote 2: MY MEMOIRS, Vol. I, p. 171.]

"We built a section of a modern ship by itself and carried out experimental explosions on it
with torpedo heads, carefully testing the result every time. We tested the possibility of weakening
the force of the explosion by letting the explosive gases burst in empty compartments without
meeting any resistance. We ascertained the most suitable steel for the different structural
parts, and found further that the effect of the explosion was nullified if we compelled it
to pulverize coal in any considerable quantity. This resulted in a special arrangement of the
coal bunkers. We were then able to meet the force of the explosion ... by a strong, carefully
constructed steel wall which finally secured the safety of the interior of the ship."

The only German armored ship that succumbed to the blow of a single torpedo was the Pommern,
an old vessel, built before the fruits of these experiments were embodied in the German fleet.
The labor of von Tirpitz was well justified by the results, as may be seen by the instantaneous
fashion in which the three British battle cruisers went to the bottom, compared with the ability
of the German battle cruisers to stand terrific pounding and yet stay afloat and keep going.
According to the testimony of a German officer,[1] the Lützow was literally shot to pieces
in the battle and even then it took three torpedoes to settle her. Actually she was sunk by
opening her seacocks to prevent her possible capture. The remarkable ability of the battle
cruiser Göben, in Turkish waters, to survive shell, mines, and torpedo, bears the same testimony,
as does the Mainz, which, in the action of the Heligoland Bight had to be sunk by one of her
own officers, as in the case of the Lützow. It is possible that Jellicoe assumed an inferiority
of the British armor piercing shell because of this power of the German ships to stay afloat.
But photographs published after the armistice showed that British shells penetrated the 11-inch
turret armor of the Seydlitz and the 13-inch of the Derfflinger with frightful effect. The
difference was in the fact that they did not succeed in sinking those ships, which, after all
is the chief object of a shell, and this must be attributed to better under-water construction.

[Footnote 1: Quoted in Naval and Military Record, Dec. 24, 1919, p. 822.]

The only criticism it seems possible to suggest on Scheer's tactics is the unwariness of his
pursuit, which might so easily have led to the total destruction of the German fleet. Strangely
enough, although a Zeppelin hovered over the British fleet at dawn of the day after the battle,
no aircraft of any kind scouted ahead of the Germans the day before. In pursuing Beatty, Scheer
had to take a chance, well aware that if the Grand Fleet were within reach, Beatty's wireless
would bring it upon him. But Scheer was evidently perfectly willing to risk the encounter.
Such criticism as arose in Germany--from Captain Persius, for example--centered on "Tirpitz's
faulty constructional methods"; which, in the light of the facts of the battle would seem to
be the very last thing to hit upon.

As for types and weapons it is clear that the armored cruisers served only as good targets
and death traps. The British would have been better off if every armored cruiser had been left
at home. The dominating feature of the story is the influence of the torpedo on Jellicoe's
tactics. It is fair to say that it was the Parthian tactics of the German destroyer, both actual
and potential, that saved the High Seas Fleet and robbed the British of a greater Trafalgar.
At every crisis in the battle it was either what the German destroyer did or might do that
governed the British commander's maneuvers. At the time of deployment he formed on the farthest
rather than on the nearest division because of what German destroyers might do. When the Grand
Fleet swung away to the east and lost all contact with their enemy for the rest of the battle,
it was because of a destroyer attack. At this time eleven destroyers accomplished the feat
of driving 27 dreadnoughts from the field! Again, the pursuit was called off at nightfall because
of the peril of destroyer attacks under cover of darkness, and finally Jellicoe decided not
to risk an action the following morning because his capital ships had no screening forces against
the torpedo of the enemy. It is worth noting in this connection that although the Admiralty
were aware of the battle in progress, they held back the Harwich force of destroyers and light
cruisers which would have proved a welcome reënforcement in pursuing the retreating fleet.
The reason for this decision has never been published.

In connection with the important part played by the German destroyers at Jutland it is worth
remarking that before the war it was the Admiralty doctrine that destroyers could not operate
successfully by day, and they were accordingly painted black for night service. The German
destroyers were painted gray. After Jutland the British flotillas also were painted the battleship
gray.

