CELEBRATED TRAVELS AND TRAVELLERS. THE EXPLORATION OF THE WORLD.

BY JULES VERNE

WITH 59 ILLUSTRATIONS BY L. BENETT AND P. PHILIPPOTEAUX, AND 50 FAC-SIMILES OF ANCIENT DRAWINGS.
1882. [All rights reserved.]

Celebrated Travels and Travellers, BY JULES VERNE.

In Three Vols., demy 8vo, each containing 400 pages and upwards of 100 Illustrations, price
12s. 6d. each; cloth extra, gilt edges, 14s.

Part I. The Exploration of the World. Part II. The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.
Part III. The Great Navigators of the Nineteenth Century.

EXPLORATION OF THE WORLD.

Map of the World as known to the Ancients.

Approach to Constantinople. Anselmi Banduri Imperium orientale, tome II., p. 448. 2 vols. folio.
Parisiis, 1711.

Map of the World according to Marco Polo's ideas. Vol. I., p. 134 of the edition of Marco Polo
published in London by Colonel Yule, 2 vols. 8vo.

Plan of Pekin in 1290. Yule's edition. Vol. I., p. 332.

Portrait of Jean de Béthencourt. "The discovery and conquest of the Canaries." Page 1, 12mo.
Paris, 1630.

Plan of Jerusalem. "Narrative of the journey beyond seas to the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem,"
by Antoine Régnant, p. 229, 4to. Lyons, 1573.

Prince Henry the Navigator. From a miniature engraved in "The Discoveries of Prince Henry the
Navigator," by H. Major. 8vo. London, 1877.

Christopher Columbus. Taken from "Vitæ illustrium virorum," by Paul Jove. Folio. Basileæ, Perna.

Imaginary view of Seville. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, pl. I., part IV.

Building of a caravel. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, Americæ, part IV., plate XIX.

Map of the Antilles and the Gulf of Mexico. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, Americæ, part V.

Fishing for Pearl oysters.

Gold-mines in Cuba. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, Americæ, part V., plate I.

Vasco da Gama. From an engraving in the Cabinet des Estampes of the Bibl. Nat.

La Mina. "Histoire générale des Voyages," by the Abbé Prévost. Vol. III., p. 461, 4to. 20 vols.
An X. 1746.

Map of the East Coast of Africa, from the Cape of Good Hope to the Cape del Gado. From the
French map of the Eastern Ocean, published in 1740 by order of the Comte de Maurepas.

Map of Mozambique. Bibl. Nat. Estampes.

Interview with the Zamorin. "Hist. Gén. des Voyages," by Prévost. Vol. I., p. 39. 4to. An X.
20 vols. 1746.

View of Quiloa. From an engraving in the Cabinet des Estampes. Topography. (Africa).

Map of the Coasts of Persia, Guzerat, and Malabar. From the French Map of the Eastern Ocean,
pub. in 1740 by order of the Comte de Maurepas.

The Island of Ormuz. "Hist. Gén. des Voyages." Prévost. Vol. II., p. 98.

SECOND PART.

Americus Vespucius. From an engraving in the Cabinet des Estampes of the Bibliothèque Nationale.

Indians devoured by dogs.

Punishment of Indians. Page 17 of Las Casas' "Narratio regionum indicarum per Hispanos quosdam
devastatarum," 4to. Francofurti, sumptibus Th. de Bry, 1698.

Portrait of F. Cortès. From an engraving after Velasquez in the Cabinet des Estampes of the
Bibliothèque Nationale.

Plan of Mexico. From Clavigero and Bernal Diaz del Castillo. Jourdanet's translation, 2nd Edition.

Portrait of Pizarro. From an engraving in the Cabinet des Estampes of the Bib. Nat.

Map of Peru. From Garcilasso de la Vega. History of the Incas. 4to. Bernard, Amsterdam, 1738.

Atahualpa taken prisoner. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, Americæ, part VI., plate VII.

Assassination of Pizarro.

Map of the Coast of Brazil. From the map called Henry 2nd's. Bibl. Nat., Geographical collections.

The Ladrone Islands. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, Occidentalis Indiæ, pars VIII., p. 50.

Portrait of Sebastian Cabot. From a miniature engraved in "The remarkable Life, adventures,
and discoveries of Sebastian Cabot," by Nicholls. 8vo. London, 1869.

Fragment of Cabot's map. Bibl. Nat., Geographical collections.

Map of Newfoundland and of the Mouth of the St. Lawrence. Lescarbot, "Histoire de la Nouvelle
France." 12mo. Perier, Paris, 1617.

Portrait of Jacques Cartier. After Charlevoix. "History and general description of New France,"
translated by John Gilmary Shea, p. III. 6 vols. 4to. Shea, New York, 1866.

Barentz' ship fixed in the ice. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages. Tertia pars Indiæ Orientales, plate
XLIV.

Interior of Barentz' house. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages. Tertia pars Indiæ Orientalis, plate XLVII.

Map of Nova Zembla.

A sea-lion hunt.

A fight between the Dutch and the Spaniards. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages, "Historiarum novi
orbis;" part IX., book II., page 87.

Portrait of Raleigh. From an engraving in the Cabinet des Estampes of the Bibl. Nat.

Berreo seized by Raleigh. Th. de Bry. Grands Voyages. Occid. Indiæ, part VIII., p. 64.

Portrait of Chardin. "Voyages de M. le Chevalier Chardin en Perse." Vol. I. 10 vols. 12mo.
Ferrand, Rouen, 1723.

Japanese Archer. From a Japanese print engraved by Yule, vol. II., p. 206.

Attack upon an Indian Town. "Voyages du Sieur de Champlain," p. 44. 12mo. Collet, Paris, 1727.

NAMES OF THE PRINCIPAL TRAVELLERS OF WHOM THE HISTORY AND TRAVELS ARE RELATED IN THIS VOLUME.

FIRST PART.

HANNO--HERODOTUS--PYTHEAS--NEARCHUS--EUDOXUS--CÆSAR--STRABO-- PAUSANIAS--FA-HIAN--COSMOS INDICOPLEUSTES--ARCULPHE--WILLIBALD--
SOLEYMAN--BENJAMIN OF TUDELA--PLAN DE CARPIN--RUBRUQUIS--MARCO POLO--IBN BATUTA--JEAN DE BÉTHENCOURT--CHRISTOPHER
COLUMBUS-- COVILHAM AND PAÏVA--VASCO DA GAMA--ALVARÈS CABRAL--JOAO DA NOVA-- DA CUNHA--ALMEIDA--ALBUQUERQUE.

SECOND PART.

HOJEDA--AMERICUS VESPUCIUS--JUAN DE LA COSA--YAÑEZ PINZON--DIAZ DE SOLIS--PONCE DE LEON--BALBOA--GRIJALVA--CORTÈS--PIZARRO--ALMAGRO--
ALVARADO--ORELLANA--MAGELLAN--ERIC THE RED--THE ZENI--THE CORTEREALS--THE CABOTS--WILLOUGHBY--CHANCELLOR--VERRAZZANO--JACQUES
CARTIER--FROBISHER--JOHN DAVIS--BARENTZ AND HEEMSKERKE--DRAKE-- CAVENDISH--DE NOORT--W. RALEIGH--LEMAIRE
AND SCHOUTEN--TASMAN-- MENDANA--QUIROS AND TORRÈS--PYRARD DE LAVAL--PIETRO DELLA VALLE-- TAVERNIER--THÉVENOT--BERNIER--ROBERT
KNOX--CHARDIN--DE BRUYN-- KÆMPFER--WILLIAM DAMPIER--HUDSON AND BAFFIN--CHAMPLAIN AND LA SALE.

PREFACE.

This narrative will comprehend not only all the explorations made in past ages, but also all
the new discoveries which have of late years so greatly interested the scientific world. In
order to give to this work--enlarged perforce by the recent labours of modern travellers,--all
the accuracy possible, I have called in the aid of a man whom I with justice regard as one
of the most competent geographers of the present day: M. Gabriel Marcel, attached to the Bibliothèque
Nationale.

With the advantage of his acquaintance with several foreign languages which are unknown to
me, we have been able to go to the fountain-head, and to derive all information from absolutely
original documents. Our readers will, therefore, render to M. Marcel the credit due to him
for his share in a work which will demonstrate what manner of men the great travellers have
been, from the time of Hanno and Herodotus down to that of Livingstone and Stanley.

JULES VERNE.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

FIRST PART.

CHAPTER I. CELEBRATED TRAVELLERS BEFORE THE CHRISTIAN ERA.

HANNO, 505; HERODOTUS, 484; PYTHEAS, 340; NEARCHUS, 326; EUDOXUS, 146; CÆSAR, 100; STRABO, 50.

                                                                PAGE
Hanno, the Carthaginian--Herodotus visits Egypt, Lybia, Ethiopia,
Phoenicia, Arabia, Babylon, Persia, India, Media, Colchis, the
Caspian Sea, Scythia, Thrace, and Greece--Pytheas explores the
coasts of Iberia and Gaul, the English Channel, the Isle of
Albion, the Orkney Islands, and the land of Thule--Nearchus
visits the Asiatic coast, from the Indus to the Persian Gulf--
Eudoxus reconnoitres the West Coast of Africa--Cæsar conquers
Gaul and Great Britain--Strabo travels over the interior of
Asia, and Egypt, Greece, and Italy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3

CHAPTER II. CELEBRATED TRAVELLERS FROM THE FIRST TO THE NINTH CENTURY.

PAUSANIAS, 174; FA-HIAN, 399; COSMOS INDICOPLEUSTES, 500; ARCULPHE, 700; WILLIBALD, 725; SOLEYMAN,
851.

Pliny, Hippalus, Arian, and Ptolemy--Pausanias visits Attica, Corinth, Laconia, Messenia, Elis,
Achaia, Arcadia, Boeotia, and Phocis--Fa-Hian explores Kan-tcheou, Tartary, Northern India,
the Punjaub, Ceylon, and Java--Cosmos Indicopleustes, and the Christian Topography of the Universe--Arculphe
describes Jerusalem, the valley of Jehoshaphat, the Mount of Olives, Bethlehem, Jericho, the
river Jordan, Libanus, the Dead Sea, Capernaum, Nazareth, Mount Tabor, Damascus, Tyre, Alexandria,
and Constantinople--Willibald and the Holy Land--Soleyman travels through Ceylon, and Sumatra,
and crosses the Gulf of Siam and the China Sea . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15

CHAPTER III. CELEBRATED TRAVELLERS BETWEEN THE TENTH AND THIRTEENTH CENTURIES.

BENJAMIN OF TUDELA, 1159-1173; PLAN DE CARPIN, OR CARPINI, 1245-1247; RUBRUQUIS, 1253-1254.

The Scandinavians in the North, Iceland and Greenland--Benjamin of Tudela visits Marseilles,
Rome, Constantinople, the Archipelago, Palestine, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Damascus, Baalbec,
Nineveh, Baghdad, Babylon, Bassorah, Ispahan, Shiraz, Samarcand, Thibet, Malabar, Ceylon, the
Red Sea, Egypt, Sicily, Italy, Germany, and France--Carpini explores Turkestan--Manners and
customs of the Tartars--Rubruquis and the Sea of Azov, the Volga, Karakorum, Astrakhan, and
Derbend . . . . . . . . . . . .  26

CHAPTER IV. MARCO POLO, 1253-1324.

I.

The interest of the Genoese and Venetian merchants in encouraging the exploration of Central
Asia--The family of Polo, and its position in Venice--Nicholas and Matteo Polo, the two brothers--They
go from Constantinople to the Court of the Emperor of China--Their reception at the Court of
Kublaï-Khan-- The Emperor appoints them his ambassadors to the Pope--Their return to Venice--Marco
Polo--He leaves his father Nicholas and his uncle Matteo for the residence of the King of Tartary--The
new Pope Gregory X.--The narrative of Marco Polo is written in French from his dictation, by
Rusticien of Pisa  . . . . . . . .  43

II.

Armenia Minor--Armenia--Mount Ararat--Georgia--Mosul, Baghdad, Bussorah, Tauris--Persia--The
Province of Kirman--Comadi-- Ormuz--The Old Man of the Mountain--Cheburgan--Balkh--Cashmir--
Kashgar--Samarcand--Kotan--The Desert--Tangun--Kara-Korum-- Signan-fu--The Great Wall--Chang-tou--The
residence of Kublaï-Khan--Cambaluc, now Pekin--The Emperor's fêtes--His hunting--Description
of Pekin--Chinese Mint and bank-notes--The system of posts in the Empire  . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .  47

III.

Tso-cheu--Tai-yen-fou--Pin-yang-fou--The Yellow River-- Signan-fou--Szu-tchouan--Ching-tu-fou--Thibet--Li-kiang-fou--
Carajan--Yung-tchang--Mien--Bengal--Annam--Tai-ping--Cintingui-- Sindifoo--Té-cheu--Tsi-nan-fou--Lin-tsin-choo--Lin-sing--Mangi--
Yang-tcheu-fou--Towns on the coast--Quin-say or Hang-tcheou-foo--Fo-kien . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .  59

IV.

Japan--Departure of the three Venetians with the Emperor's daughter and the Persian ambassadors--Sai-gon--Java--Condor--
Bintang--Sumatra--The Nicobar Islands--Ceylon--The Coromandel coast--The Malabar coast--The
Sea of Oman--The island of Socotra--Madagascar--Zanzibar and the coast of Africa-- Abyssinia--Yemen--Hadramaut
and Oman--Ormuz--The return to Venice--A feast in the household of Polo--Marco Polo a Genoese
prisoner--Death of Marco Polo about 1323 . . . . . . . . . . . .  67

CHAPTER V. IBN BATUTA, 1328-1353.

Ibn Batuta--The Nile--Gaza, Tyre, Tiberias, Libanus, Baalbec, Damascus, Meshid, Bussorah, Baghdad,
Tabriz, Mecca and Medina-- Yemen--Abyssinia--The country of the Berbers--Zanguebar--Ormuz--
Syria--Anatolia--Asia Minor--Astrakhan--Constantinople-- Turkestan--Herat--The Indus--Delhi--Malabar--The
Maldives-- Ceylon--The Coromandel coast--Bengal--The Nicobar Islands-- Sumatra--China--Africa--The
Niger--Timbuctoo . . . . . . . . . .  77

CHAPTER VI. JEAN DE BÉTHENCOURT, 1339-1425.

I.

The Norman cavalier--His ideas of conquest--What was known of the Canary Islands--Cadiz--The
Canary Archipelago--Graciosa-- Lancerota--Fortaventura--Jean de Béthencourt returns to Spain--
Revolt of Berneval--His interview with King Henry III.--Gadifer visits the Canary Archipelago--Canary
Island or "Gran Canaria"-- Ferro Island--Palma Island . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  84

II.

The return of Jean de Béthencourt--Gadifer's jealousy-- Béthencourt visits his archipelago--Gadifer
goes to conquer Gran Canaria--Disagreement of the two commanders--Their return to Spain--Gadifer
blamed by the King--Return of Béthencourt--The natives of Fortaventura are baptized--Béthencourt
revisits Caux--Returns to Lancerota--Lands on the African coast--Conquest of Gran Canaria,
Ferro, and Palma Islands--Maciot appointed Governor of the archipelago--Béthencourt obtains
the Pope's consent to the Canary Islands being made an Episcopal See--His return to his country
and his death  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  92

CHAPTER VII. CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS, 1436-1506.

I.

Discovery of Madeira, Cape de Verd Islands, the Azores, Congo, and Guinea--Bartholomew Diaz--Cabot
and Labrador--The geographical and commercial tendencies of the middle ages--The erroneous
idea of the distance between Europe and Asia--Birth of Christopher Columbus--His first voyages--His
plans rejected--His sojourn at the Franciscan convent--His reception by Ferdinand and Isabella--Treaty
of the 17th of April, 1492--The brothers Pinzon--Three armed caravels at the port of Palos--Departure
on the 3rd of August, 1492  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101

II.

First voyage: The Great Canary--Gomera--Magnetic variation-- Symptoms of revolt--Land, land--San
Salvador--Taking possession--Conception--Fernandina or Great Exuma--Isabella, or Long Island--The
Mucaras--Cuba--Description of the island-- Archipelago of Notre-Dame--Hispaniola or San Domingo--Tortuga
Island--The cacique on board the Santa-Maria--The caravel of Columbus goes aground and cannot
be floated off--Island of Monte-Christi--Return--Tempest--Arrival in Spain--Homage rendered
to Christopher Columbus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114

III.

Second Voyage: Flotilla of seventeen vessels--Island of Ferro-- Dominica--Marie-Galante--Guadaloupe--The
Cannibals--Montserrat-- Santa-Maria-la-Rodonda--St. Martin and Santa Cruz--Archipelago of the
Eleven Thousand Virgins--The island of St. John Baptist, or Porto Rico--Hispaniola--The first
Colonists massacred-- Foundation of the town of Isabella--Twelve ships laden with treasure
sent to Spain--Fort St. Thomas built in the Province of Cibao--Don Diego, Columbus' brother,
named Governor of the Island--Jamaica--The Coast of Cuba--The Remora--Return to Isabella--The
Cacique made prisoner--Revolt of the Natives-- Famine--Columbus traduced in Spain--Juan Aguado
sent as Commissary to Isabella--Gold-mines--Departure of Columbus--His arrival at Cadiz . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131

IV.

Third Voyage: Madeira--Santiago in the Cape Verd Archipelago-- Trinidad--First sight of the
American Coast in Venezuela, beyond the Orinoco, now the Province of Cumana--Gulf of Paria--The
Gardens--Tobago--Grenada--Margarita--Cubaga--Hispaniola during the absence of Columbus--Foundation
of the town of San Domingo-- Arrival of Columbus--Insubordination in the Colony--Complaints
in Spain--Bovadilla sent by the king to inquire into the conduct of Columbus--Columbus sent
to Europe in fetters with his two brothers--His appearance before Ferdinand and Isabella--Renewal
of royal favour  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143

V.

Fourth Voyage: A Flotilla of four vessels--Canary Islands-- Martinique--Dominica--Santa-Cruz--Porto-Rico--Hispaniola--
Jamaica--Cayman Island--Pinos Island--Island of Guanaja--Cape Honduras--The American Coast
of Truxillo on the Gulf of Darien-- The Limonare Islands--Huerta--The Coast of Veragua--Auriferous
Strata--Revolt of the Natives--The Dream of Columbus-- Porto-Bello--The Mulatas--Putting into
port at Jamaica-- Distress--Revolt of the Spaniards against Columbus--Lunar Eclipse--Arrival
of Columbus at Hispaniola--Return of Columbus to Spain--His death, on the 20th of March, 1506
. . . . . . . . 150

CHAPTER VIII. THE CONQUEST OF INDIA, AND OF THE SPICE COUNTRIES.

I.

Covilham and Païva--Vasco da Gama--The Cape of Good Hope is doubled--Escalès at Sam-Braz--Mozambique,
Mombaz, and Melinda-- Arrival at Calicut--Treason of the Zamorin--Battles--Return to Europe--The
scurvy--Death of Paul da Gama--Arrival at Lisbon . . 164

II.

Alvarès Cabral--Discovery of Brazil--The coast of Africa-- Arrival at Calicut, Cochin, Cananore--Joao
da Nova--Gama's second expedition--The King of Cochin--The early life of Albuquerque--The taking
of Goa--The siege and capture of Malacca--Second expedition against Ormuz--Ceylon--The Moluccas--
Death of Albuquerque--Fate of the Portuguese empire of the Indies . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180

SECOND PART.

CHAPTER I. THE CONQUERORS OF CENTRAL AMERICA.

I.

Hojeda--Americus Vespucius--The New World named after him--Juan de la Cosa--Vincent Yañez Pinzon--Bastidas--Diego
de Lepe--Diaz de Solis--Ponce de Leon and Florida--Balboa discovers the Pacific Ocean--Grijalva
explores the coast of Mexico . . . . . . 207

II.

Ferdinand Cortès--His character--His appointment--Preparations for the expedition, and attempts
of Velasquez to stop it-- Landing at Vera-Cruz--Mexico and the Emperor Montezuma--The republic
of Tlascala--March upon Mexico--The Emperor is made prisoner--Narvaez defeated--The Noche Triste--Battle
of Otumba--The second siege and taking of Mexico--Expedition to Honduras--Voyage to Spain--Expeditions
on the Pacific Ocean-- Second Voyage of Cortès to Spain--His death  . . . . . . . . . . 224

III.

The triple alliance--Francisco Pizarro and his brothers--Don Diego d'Almagro--First attempts--Peru,
its extent, people, and kings--Capture of Atahualpa, his ransom and death--Pedro d'Alvarado--Almagro
in Chili--Strife among the conquerors--Trial and execution of Almagro--Expeditions of Gonzalo
Pizarro and Orellana--Assassination of Francisco Pizarro--Rebellion and execution of his brother
Gonzalo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

CHAPTER II. THE FIRST VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD.

Magellan--His early history--His disappointment--His change of nationality--Preparations for
the expedition--Rio de Janeiro-- St. Julian's Bay--Revolt of a part of the squadron--Terrible
punishment of the guilty--Magellan's Strait--Patagonia--The Pacific--The Ladrone Islands--Zebu
and the Philippine Islands-- Death of Magellan--Borneo--The Moluccas and their Productions--
Separation of the Trinidad and Victoria--Return to Europe by the Cape of Good Hope--Last misadventures
. . . . . . . . . . . 279

CHAPTER III. THE POLAR EXPEDITIONS AND THE SEARCH FOR THE NORTH-WEST PASSAGE.

I.

The Northmen--Eric the Red--The Zenos--John Cabot--Cortereal-- Sebastian Cabot--Willoughby--Chancellor
. . . . . . . . . . . . 307

II.

John Verrazzano--Jacques Cartier and his three voyages to Canada--The town of Hochelaga--Tobacco--The
scurvy--Voyage of Roberval--Martin Frobisher and his voyages--John Davis--Barentz and Heemskerke--Spitzbergen--Winter
season at Nova Zembla-- Return to Europe--Relics of the Expedition . . . . . . . . . . . 334

CHAPTER IV. VOYAGES OF ADVENTURE AND PRIVATEERING WARFARE.

Drake--Cavendish--De Noort--Walter Raleigh . . . . . . . . . . . 362

CHAPTER V. MISSIONARIES AND SETTLERS. MERCHANTS AND TOURISTS.

I.

Distinguishing characteristics of the Seventeenth Century--The more thorough exploration of
regions previously discovered--To the thirst for gold succeeds Apostolic zeal--Italian Missionaries
in Congo--Portuguese Missionaries in Abyssinia--Brue in Senegal and Flacourt in Madagascar--The
Apostles of India, of Indo-China, and of Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 381

II. 387

CHAPTER VI.

I. THE GREAT CORSAIR.

William Dampier; or a Sea-King of the Seventeenth Century  . . . 409

II. THE POLE AND AMERICA.

Hudson and Baffin--Champlain and La Sale--The English upon the coast of the Atlantic--The Spaniards
in South America--Summary of the information acquired at the close of the 17th century-- The
measure of the terrestrial degree--Progress of cartography-- Inauguration of Mathematical Geography
. . . . . . . . . . . . .

The first traveller of whom we have any account in history, is Hanno, who was sent by the Carthaginian
senate to colonize some parts of the Western coast of Africa. The account of this expedition
was written in the Carthaginian language and afterwards translated into Greek. It is known
to us now by the name of the "Periplus of Hanno." At what period this explorer lived, historians
are not agreed, but the most probable account assigns the date B.C. 505 to his exploration
of the African coast.

Hanno left Carthage with a fleet of sixty vessels of fifty oars each, carrying 30,000 persons,
and provisions for a long voyage. These emigrants, for so we may call them, were destined to
people the new towns that the Carthaginians hoped to found on the west coast of Libya, or as
we now call it, Africa.

The fleet successfully passed the Pillars of Hercules, the rocks of Gibraltar and Ceuta which
command the Strait, and ventured on the Atlantic, taking a southerly course. Two days after
passing the Straits, Hanno anchored on the coast, and laid the foundation of the town of Thumiaterion.

Then he put to sea again, and doubling the cape of Soloïs, made fresh discoveries, and advanced
to the mouth of a large African river, where he found a tribe of wandering shepherds camping
on the banks. He only waited to conclude a treaty of alliance with them, before continuing
his voyage southward. He next reached the Island of Cerne, situated in a bay, and measuring
five stadia in circumference, or as we should say at the present day, nearly 925 yards. According
to Hanno's own account, this island should be placed, with regard to the Pillars of Hercules,
at an equal distance to that which separates these Pillars from Carthage.

They set sail again, and Hanno reached the mouth of the river Chretes, which forms a sort of
natural harbour, but as they endeavoured to explore this river, they were assailed with showers
of stones from the native negro race, inhabiting the surrounding country, and driven back,
and after this inhospitable reception they returned to Cerne. We must not omit to add that
Hanno mentions finding large numbers of crocodiles and hippopotami in this river. Twelve days
after this unsuccessful expedition, the fleet reached a mountainous region, where fragrant
trees and shrubs abounded, and it then entered a vast gulf which terminated in a plain. This
region appeared quite calm during the day, but after nightfall it was illumined by tongues
of flame, which might have proceeded from fires lighted by the natives, or from the natural
ignition of the dry grass when the rainy season was over.

In five days, Hanno doubled the Cape, known as the Hespera Keras, there, according to his own
account, "he heard the sound of fifes, cymbals, and tambourines, and the clamour of a multitude
of people." The soothsayers, who accompanied the party of Carthaginian explorers, counselled
flight from this land of terrors, and, in obedience to their advice, they set sail again, still
taking a southerly course. They arrived at a cape, which, stretching southwards, formed a gulf,
called Notu Keras, and, according to M. D'Avezac, this gulf must have been the mouth of the
river Ouro, which falls into the Atlantic almost within the Tropic of Cancer. At the lower
end of this gulf, they found an island inhabited by a vast number of gorillas, which the Carthaginians
mistook for hairy savages. They contrived to get possession of three female gorillas, but were
obliged to kill them on account of their great ferocity.

This Notu Keras must have been the extreme limit reached by the Carthaginian explorers, and
though some historians incline to the belief that they only went to Bojador, which is two degrees
North of the tropics, it is more probable that the former account is the true one, and that
Hanno, finding himself short of provisions, returned northwards to Carthage, where he had the
account of his voyage engraved in the temple of Baal Moloch.

After Hanno, the most illustrious of ancient travellers, was Herodotus, who has been called
the "Father of History," and who was the nephew of the poet Panyasis, whose poems ranked with
those of Homer and Hesiod. It will serve our purpose better if we only speak of Herodotus as
a traveller, not an historian, as we wish to follow him so far as possible through the countries
that he traversed.

Herodotus was born at Halicarnassus, a town in Asia Minor, in the year B.C. 484. His family
were rich, and having large commercial transactions they were able to encourage the taste for
explorations which he showed. At this time there were many different opinions as to the shape
of the earth: the Pythagorean school having even then begun to teach that it must be round,
but Herodotus took no part in this discussion, which was of the deepest interest to learned
men of that time, and, still young, he left home with a view of exploring with great care all
the then known world, and especially those parts of it of which there were but few and uncertain
data.

He left Halicarnassus in 464, being then twenty years of age, and probably directed his steps
first to Egypt, visiting Memphis, Heliopolis, and Thebes. He seems to have specially turned
his attention to the overflow of the banks of the Nile, and he gives an account of the different
opinions held as to the source of this river, which the Egyptians worshipped as one of their
deities. "When the Nile overflows its banks," he says, "you can see nothing but the towns rising
out of the water, and they appear like the islands in the Ægean Sea." He tells of the religious
ceremonies among the Egyptians, their sacrifices, their ardour in celebrating the feasts in
honour of their goddess Isis, which took place principally at Busiris (whose ruins may still
be seen near Bushir), and of the veneration paid to both wild and tame animals, which were
looked upon almost as sacred, and to whom they even rendered funeral honours at their death.
He depicts in the most faithful colours, the Nile crocodile, its form, habits, and the way
in which it is caught, and the hippopotamus, the momot, the phoenix, the ibis, and the serpents
that were consecrated to the god Jupiter. Nothing can be more life-like than his accounts of
Egyptian customs, and the notices of their habits, their games, and their way of embalming
the dead, in which the chemists of that period seem to have excelled. Then we have the history
of the country from Menes, its first king, downwards to Herodotus' time, and he describes the
building of the Pyramids under Cheops, the Labyrinth that was built a little above the Lake
Moeris (of which the remains were discovered in A.D. 1799), Lake Moeris itself, whose origin
he ascribes to the hand of man, and the two Pyramids which are situated a little above the
lake. He seems to have admired many of the Egyptian temples, and especially that of Minerva
at Sais, and of Vulcan and Isis at Memphis, and the colossal monolith that was three years
in course of transportation from Elephantina to Sais, though 2000 men were employed on the
gigantic work.

After having carefully inspected everything of interest in Egypt, Herodotus went into Lybia,
little thinking that the continent he was exploring, extended thence to the tropic of Cancer.
He made special inquiries in Lybia as to the number of its inhabitants, who were a simple nomadic
race principally living near the sea-coast, and he speaks of the Ammonians, who possessed the
celebrated temple of Jupiter Ammon, the remains of which have been discovered on the north-east
side of the Lybian desert, about 300 miles from Cairo. Herodotus furnishes us with some very
valuable information on Lybian customs; he describes their habits; speaks of the animals that
infest the country, serpents of a prodigious size, lions, elephants, bears, asps, horned asses
(probably the rhinoceros of the present day), and cynocephali, "animals with no heads, and
whose eyes are placed on their chest," to use his own expression; foxes, hyenas, porcupines,
wild zarus, panthers, etc. He winds up his description by saying that the only two aboriginal
nations that inhabit this region are the Lybians and Ethiopians.

According to Herodotus the Ethiopians were at that time to be found above Elephantina, but
commentators are induced to doubt if this learned explorer ever really visited Ethiopia, and
if he did not, he may easily have learnt from the Egyptians the details that he gives of its
capital, Meroe, of the worship of Jupiter and Bacchus, and the longevity of the natives. There
can be no doubt, however, that he set sail for Tyre in Phoenicia, and that he was much struck
with the beauty of the two magnificent temples of Hercules. He next visited Tarsus and took
advantage of the information gathered on the spot, to write a short history of Phoenicia, Syria,
and Palestine.

We next find that he went southward to Arabia, and he calls it the Ethiopia of Asia, for he
thought the southern parts of Arabia were the limits of human habitation. He tells us of the
remarkable way in which the Arabs kept any vow that they might have made; that their two deities
were Uranius and Bacchus, and of the abundant growth of myrrh, cinnamon and other spices, and
he gives a very interesting account of their culture and preparation.

We cannot be quite sure which country he next visited, as he calls it both Assyria and Babylonia,
but he gives a most minute account of the splendid city of Babylon (which was the home of the
monarchs of that country, after the destruction of Nineveh), and whose ruins are now only in
scattered heaps on either side of the Euphrates, which flowed a broad, deep, rapid river, dividing
the city into two parts. On one side of the river the fortified palace of the king stood, and
on the other the temple of Jupiter Belus, which may have been built on the site of the Tower
of Babel. Herodotus next speaks of the two queens, Semiramis and Nitocris, telling us of all
the means taken by the latter to increase the prosperity and safety of her capital, and passing
on to speak of the natural products of the country, the wheat, barley, millet, sesame, the
vine, fig-tree and palm-tree. He winds up with a description of the costume of the Babylonians,
and their customs, especially that of celebrating their marriages by the public crier.

After exploring Babylonia he went to Persia, and as the express purpose of his travels was
to collect all the information he could relating to the lengthy wars that had taken place between
the Persians and Grecians, he was most anxious to visit the spots where the battles had been
fought. He sets out by remarking upon the custom prevalent in Persia, of not clothing their
deities in any human form, nor erecting temples nor altars where they might be worshipped,
but contenting themselves with adoring them on the tops of the mountains. He notes their domestic
habits, their disdain of animal food, their taste for delicacies, their passion for wine, and
their custom of transacting business of the utmost importance when they had been drinking to
excess; their curiosity as to the habits of other nations, their love of pleasure, their warlike
qualities, their anxiety for the education of their children, their respect for the lives of
all their fellow-creatures, even of their slaves, their horror both of debt and lying, and
their repugnance to the disease of leprosy which they thought proved that the sufferer "had
sinned in some way against the sun." The India of Herodotus, according to M. Vivien de St.
Martin, only consisted of that part of the country that is watered by the five rivers of the
Punjaub, adjoining Afghanistan, and this was the region where the young traveller turned his
steps on leaving Persia. He thought that the population of India was larger than that of any
other country, and he divided it into two classes, the first having settled habitations, the
second leading a nomadic life. Those who lived in the eastern part of the country killed their
sick and aged people, and ate them, while those in the north, who were a finer, braver, and
more industrious race, employed themselves in collecting the auriferous sands. India was then
the most easterly extremity of the inhabited world, as he thought, and he observes, "that the
two extremities of the world seem to have shared nature's best gifts, as Greece enjoyed the
most agreeable temperature possible," and that was his idea of the western limits of the world.

Media is the next country visited by this indefatigable traveller, and he gives the history
of the Medes, the nation which was the first to shake off the Assyrian yoke. They founded the
great city of Ecbatana, and surrounded it with seven concentric walls. They became a separate
nation in the reign of Deioces. After crossing the mountains that separate Media from Colchis,
the Greek traveller entered the country, made famous by the valour of Jason, and studied its
manners and customs with the care and attention that were among his most striking characteristics.

Herodotus seems to have been well acquainted with the geography of the Caspian Sea, for he
speaks of it as a Sea "quite by itself" and having no communication with any other. He considered
that it was bounded on the west by the Caucasian Mountains and on the east by a great plain
inhabited by the Massagetæ, who, both Arian and Diodorus Siculus think, may have been Scythians.
These Massagetæ worshipped the Sun as their only deity, and sacrificed horses in its honour.
He speaks here of two large rivers, one of which, the Araxes, would be the Volga, and the other,
that he calls the Ista, must be the Danube. The traveller then went into Scythia, and he thought
that the Scythians were the different tribes inhabiting the country that lay between the Danube
and the Don, in fact a considerable portion of European Russia. He found the barbarous custom
of putting out the eyes of their prisoners was practised among them, and he notices that they
only wandered from place to place without caring to cultivate their land. Herodotus relates
many of the fables that make the origin of the Scythian nation so obscure, and in which Hercules
plays a prominent part. He adds a list of the different tribes that composed the Scythian nation,
but he does not seem to have visited the country lying to the north of the Euxine, or Black
Sea. He gives a minute description of the habits of these people, and expresses his admiration
for the Pontus Euxinus. The dimensions that he gives of the Black Sea, the Bosphorus, of the
Propontis, the Palus Mæotis and of the Ægean Sea, are almost exactly the same as those given
by geographers of the present day. He also names the large rivers that flow into these seas.
The Ister or Danube, the Borysthenes or Dnieper, the Tanais, or Don; and he finishes by relating
how the alliance, and afterwards the union between the Scythians and Amazons took place, which
explains the reason why the young women of that country are not allowed to marry before they
have killed an enemy and established their character for valour.

After a short stay in Thrace, during which he was convinced that the Getæ were the bravest
portion of this race, Herodotus arrived in Greece, which was to be the termination of his travels,
to the country where he hoped to collect the only documents still wanting to complete his history,
and he visited all the spots that had become illustrious by the great battles fought between
the Greeks and Persians. He gives a minute description of the Pass of Thermopylæ, and of his
visit to the plain of Marathon, the battlefield of Platæa, and his return to Asia Minor, whence
he passed along the coast on which the Greeks had established several colonies. Herodotus can
only have been twenty-eight years of age when he returned to Halicarnassus in Caria, for it
was in B.C. 456 that he read the history of his travels at the Olympic Games. His country was
at that time oppressed by Lygdamis, and he was exiled to Samos; but though he soon after rose
in arms to overthrow the tyrant, the ingratitude of his fellow-citizens obliged him to return
into exile. In 444 he took part in the games at the Pantheon, and there he read his completed
work, which was received with enthusiasm, and towards the end of his life he retired to Thurium
in Italy, where he died, B.C. 406, leaving behind him the reputation of being the greatest
traveller and the most celebrated historian of antiquity.

After Herodotus we must pass over a century and a half, and only note, in passing, the Physician
Ctesias, a contemporary of Xenophon, who published the account of a voyage to India that he
really never made; and we shall come in chronological order to Pytheas, who was at once a traveller,
geographer, and historian, one of the most celebrated men of his time. It was about the year
B.C. 340 that Pytheas set out from the columns of Hercules with a single vessel, but instead
of taking a southerly course like his Carthaginian predecessors, he went northwards, passing
by the coasts of Iberia and Gaul to the furthest points which now form the Cape of Finisterre,
and then he entered the English Channel and came upon the English coast--the British Isles--of
which he was to be the first explorer. He disembarked at various points on the coast and made
friends with the simple, honest, sober, industrious inhabitants, who traded largely in tin.

Pytheas ventured still further north, and went beyond the Orcades Islands to the furthest point
of Scotland, and he must have reached a very high latitude, for during the summer the night
only lasted two hours. After six days further sailing, he came to lands which he calls Thule,
probably the Jutland or Norway of the present day, beyond which he could not pass, for he says,
"there was neither land, sea, nor air there." He retraced his course, and changing it slightly,
he came to the mouth of the Rhine, to the country of the Ostians, and, further inland, to Germany.
Thence he visited the mouth of the Tanais, that is supposed to be the Elbe or the Oder, and
he retuned to Marseilles, just a year after leaving his native town. Pytheas, besides being
such a brave sailor, was a remarkably scientific man: he was the first to discover the influence
that the moon exercises on the tides, and to notice that the polar star is not situated at
the exact spot at which the axis of the globe is supposed to be. Some years after the time
of Pytheas, about B.C. 326 a Greek traveller made his name famous. This was Nearchus, a native
of Crete, one of Alexander's admirals, and he was charged to visit all the coast of Asia from
the mouth of the Indus to that of the Euphrates. When Alexander first resolved that this expedition
should take place, which had for its object the opening up of a communication between India
and Egypt, he was at the upper part of the Indus. He furnished Nearchus with a fleet of thirty-three
galleys, of some vessels with two decks, and a great number of transport ships, and 2000 men.
Nearchus came down the Indus in about four months, escorted on either bank of the river by
Alexander's armies, and after spending seven months in exploring the Delta, he set sail and
followed the west line of what we call Beloochistan in the present day.

He put to sea on the second of October, a month before the winter storms had taken a direction
that was favourable to his purpose, so that the commencement of his voyage was disastrous,
and in forty days he had scarcely made eighty miles in a westerly direction. He touched first
at Stura and at Corestis, which do not seem to answer to any of the now-existing villages on
the coast; then at the Island of Crocala, which forms the bay of Caranthia. Beaten back by
contrary winds, after doubling the cape of Monze, the fleet took refuge in a natural harbour
that its commander thought that he could fortify as a defence against the attacks of the barbarous
natives, who, even at the present day, keep up their character as pirates.

After spending twenty-four days in this harbour, Nearchus put to sea again on the 3rd of November.
Severe gales often obliged him to keep very near the coast, and when this was the case he was
obliged to take all possible precautions to defend himself from the attacks of the ferocious
Beloochees, who are described by eastern historians "as a barbarous nation, with long dishevelled
hair, and long flowing beards, who are more like bears or satyrs than human beings." Up to
this time, however, no serious disaster had happened to the fleet, but on the 10th of November
in a heavy gale two galleys and a ship sank. Nearchus then anchored at Crocala, and there he
was met by a ship laden with corn that Alexander had sent out to him, and he was able to supply
each vessel with provisions for ten days.

After many disasters and a skirmish with some of the natives, Nearchus reached the extreme
point of the land of the Orites, which is marked in modern geography by Cape Morant. Here,
he states in his narrative that the rays of the sun at mid-day are vertical, and therefore
there are no shadows of any kind; but this is surely a mistake, for at this time in the Southern
hemisphere the sun is in the Tropic of Capricorn; and, beyond this, his vessels were always
some degrees distant from the Tropic of Cancer, therefore even in the height of summer this
phenomenon could not have taken place, and we know that his voyage was in winter.

Circumstances seemed now rather more in his favour; for the time of the eastern monsoon was
over, when he sailed along the coast which is inhabited by a tribe called Ichthyophagi, who
subsist solely on fish, and from the failure of all vegetation are obliged to feed even their
sheep upon the same food. The fleet was now becoming very short of provisions; so after doubling
Cape Posmi Nearchus took a pilot from those shores on board his own vessel, and with the wind
in their favour they made rapid progress, finding the country less bare as they advanced, a
few scattered trees and shrubs being visible from the shore. They reached a little town, of
the name of which we have no record, and as they were almost without food Nearchus surprised
and took possession of it, the inhabitants making but little resistance. Canasida, or Churbar
as we call it, was their next resting-place, and at the present day the ruins of a town are
still visible in the bay. But their corn was now entirely exhausted, and though they tried
successively at Canate, Trois, and Dagasira for further supplies, it was all in vain, these
miserable little towns not being able to furnish more than enough for their own consumption.
The fleet had neither corn nor meat, and they could not make up their minds to feed upon the
tortoises that abound in that part of the coast.

Just as they entered the Persian Gulf they encountered an immense number of whales, and the
sailors were so terrified by their size and number, that they wished to fly; it was not without
much difficulty that Nearchus at last prevailed upon them to advance boldly, and they soon
scattered their formidable enemies.

Having changed their westerly course for a north-easterly one, they soon came upon fertile
shores, and their eyes were refreshed by the sight of corn-fields and pasture-lands, interspersed
with all kinds of fruit-trees except the olive. They put into Badis or Jask, and after leaving
it and passing Maceta or Mussendon, they came in sight of the Persian Gulf, to which Nearchus,
following the geography of the Arabs, gave the misnomer of the Red Sea.

They sailed up the gulf, and after one halt reached Harmozia, which has since given its name
to the little island of Ormuz. There he learnt that Alexander's army was only five days' march
from him, and he disembarked at once, and hastened to meet it. No news of the fleet having
reached the army for twenty-one weeks, they had given up all hope of seeing it again, and great
was Alexander's joy when Nearchus appeared before him, though the hardships he had endured
had altered him almost beyond recognition. Alexander ordered games to be celebrated and sacrifices
offered up to the gods; then Nearchus returned to Harmozia, as he wished to go as far as Susa
with the fleet, and set sail again, having invoked Jupiter the Deliverer.

He touched at some of the neighbouring islands, probably those of Arek and Kismis, and soon
afterwards the vessels ran aground, but the advancing tide floated them again, and after passing
Bestion, they arrived at the island of Keish, that is sacred to Mercury and Venus. This was
the boundary-line between Karmania and Persia. As they advanced along the Persian coast, they
visited different places, Gillam, Indarabia, Shevou, &c., and at the last-named was found a
quantity of wheat which Alexander had sent for the use of the explorers.

Some days after this they came to the mouth of the river Araxes, that separates Persia from
Susiana, and thence they reached a large lake situated in the country now called Dorghestan,
and finally anchored near the village of Degela, at the source of the Euphrates, having accomplished
their project of visiting all the coast lying between the Euphrates and Indus. Nearchus returned
a second time to Alexander, who rewarded him magnificently, and placed him in command of his
fleet. Alexander's wish, that the whole of the Arabian coast should be explored as far as the
Red Sea, was never fulfilled, as he died before the expedition was arranged.

It is said that Nearchus became governor of Lysia and Pamphylia, but in his leisure time he
wrote an account of his travels, which has unfortunately perished, though not before Arian
had made a complete analysis of it in his Historia Indica. It seems probable that Nearchus
fell in the battle of Ipsu, leaving behind him the reputation of being a very able commander;
his voyage may be looked upon as an event of no small importance in the history of navigation.

We must not omit to mention a most hazardous attempt made in B.C. 146, by Eudoxus of Cyzicus,
a geographer living at the court of Euergetes II, to sail round Africa. He had visited Egypt
and the coast of India, when this far greater project occurred to him, one which was only accomplished
sixteen hundred years later by Vasco da Gama. Eudoxus fitted out a large vessel and two smaller
ones, and set sail upon the unknown waters of the Atlantic. How far he took these vessels we
do not know, but after having had communication with some natives, whom he thought were Ethiopians,
he returned to Mauritania. Thence he went to Tiberia, and made preparations for another attempt
to circumnavigate Africa, but whether he ever set out upon this voyage is not known; in fact
some learned men are even inclined to consider Eudoxus an impostor.

We have still to mention two names of illustrious travellers, living before the Christian era;
those of Cæsar and Strabo. Cæsar, born B.C. 100, was pre-eminently a conqueror, not an explorer,
but we must remember, that in the year B.C. 58, he undertook the conquest of Gaul, and during
the ten years that were occupied in this vast enterprise, he led his victorious Legions to
the shores of Great Britain, where the inhabitants were of German extraction.

As to Strabo, who was born in Cappadocia B.C. 50, he distinguished himself more as a geographer
than a traveller, but he travelled through the interior of Asia, and visited Egypt, Greece,
and Italy, living many years in Rome, and dying there in the latter part of the reign of Tiberius.
Strabo wrote a Geography in seventeen Books, of which the greater part has come down to us,
and this work, with that of Ptolemy, are the two most valuable legacies of ancient to modern
Geographers.

In the first two centuries of the Christian era, the study of geography received a great stimulus
from the advance of other branches of science, but travellers, or rather explorers of new countries
were very few in number. Pliny in the year A.D. 23, devoted the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
books of his Natural History to geography, and in A.D. 50, Hippalus, a clever navigator, discovered
the laws governing the monsoon in the Indian Ocean, and taught sailors how they might deviate
from their usual course, so as to make these winds subservient to their being able to go to
and return from India in one year. Arian, a Greek historian, born A.D. 105, wrote an account
of the navigation of the Euxine or Black Sea, and pointed out as nearly as possible, the countries
that had been discovered by explorers who had lived before his time; and Ptolemy the Egyptian,
about A.D. 175, making use of the writings of his predecessors, published a celebrated geography,
in which, for the first time, places and cities were marked in their relative latitude and
longitude on a mathematical plan.

The first traveller of the Christian era, whose name has been handed down to us, was Pausanias,
a Greek writer, living in Rome in the second century, and whose account of his travels bears
the date of A.D. 175. Pausanias did for ancient Greece what Joanne, the industrious and clever
Frenchman did for the other countries of Europe, in compiling the "Traveller's Guide." His
account, a most reliable one on all points, and most exact even in details, was one upon which
travellers of the second century might safely depend in their journeys through the different
parts of Greece.

Pausanias gives a minute description of Attica, and especially of Athens and its monuments,
tombs, temples, citadel, academy, columns, and of the Areopagus.

From Attica Pausanias went to Corinth, and then explored the Islands of Ægina and Methana,
Sparta, the Island of Cerigo, Messene, Achaia, Arcadia, Boeotia, and Phocis. The roads in the
provinces and even the streets in the towns, are mentioned in his narrative, as well as the
general character of the country through which he passed; although we can scarcely say that
he added any fresh discoveries to those already made, he was one of those careful travellers
whose object was more to obtain exact information, than to make new discoveries. His narrative
has been of the greatest use to all geographers and writers upon Greece and the Peloponnesus,
and an author of the sixteenth century has truly said that this book is "a most ancient and
rare specimen of erudition."

It was about a hundred and thirty years after the Greek historian, in the fourth century, that
a Chinese monk undertook the exploration of the countries lying to the west of China. The account
of his travels is still extant, and we may well agree with M. Charton when he says that "this
is a most valuable work, carrying us beyond our ordinarily narrow view of western civilization."

Fa-Hian, the traveller, was accompanied by several monks; wishing to leave China by the west,
they crossed more than one chain of mountains, and reached the country now called Kan-tcheou,
which is not far from the great wall. They crossed the river Cha-ho, and a desert that Marco
Polo was to explore eight hundred years later. After seventeen days' march they reached the
Lake of Lobnor in Turkestan. From this point all the countries that the monks visited were
alike as to manners and customs, the languages alone differing. Being dissatisfied with the
reception that they met with in the country of the Ourgas, who are not a hospitable people,
they took a south-easterly course towards a desert country, where they had great difficulty
in crossing the rivers; and, after a thirty-five days' march, the little caravan reached Tartary
in the kingdom of Khotan, which contained, according to Fa-Hian, "Many times ten thousand holy
men." Here they met with a cordial welcome, and after a residence of three months were allowed
to assist at the "Procession of the Images," a great feast, in which both Brahmins and Buddhists
join, when all the idols are placed upon magnificently decorated cars, and paraded through
streets strewn with flowers, amid clouds of incense.

The feast over, the monks left Khotan for Koukonyar, and after resting there fifteen days,
we find them further south in the Balistan country of the present day, a cold and mountainous
district, where wheat was the only grain cultivated, and where Fa-Hian found in use the curious
cylinders on which prayers are written, and which are turned by the faithful with the most
extraordinary rapidity. Thence they went to the eastern part of Afghanistan; it took them four
weeks to cross the mountains, in the midst of which, and the never-melting snow they are said
to have found venomous dragons.

On the further side of this rocky chain the travellers found themselves in Northern India,
where the country is watered by the streams which, further on, form the Sinde or Indus. After
traversing the kingdoms of On-tchang, Su-ho-to, and Kian-tho-wei, they arrived at Fo-loo-cha,
which must be the town of Peshawur, standing between Cabul and the Indus, and twenty-four leagues
farther west, they came to the town of Hilo, built on the banks of a tributary of the river
Kabout. In these towns Fa-Hian specially notices the feasts and religious ceremonies practised
in the worship of Fo or Buddha.

When the monks left Kito, they were obliged to cross the Hindoo-Koosh mountains, lying between
Turkestan and the Gandhara, the cold being so intense that one of their party sank under it.
After enduring great hardships they reached Banoo, a town that is still standing, and then,
after again crossing the Indus, they entered the Punjaub. Thence, descending towards the south-east,
with a view of crossing the northern part of the Indian Peninsula, they reached Mathura, a
town in the province of Agra, and crossing the great salt desert which lies to the east of
the Indus, travelled through a country that Fa-Hian calls "a happy kingdom, where the inhabitants
are good and honest, needing neither laws nor magistrates, and indebted to none for their support;
without markets or wine merchants, and living happily, with plenty of all that they required,
where the temperature was neither hot nor cold." This happy kingdom was India. Fa-Hian followed
a south-easterly route, and came to Feroukh-abad, where Buddha is said to have alighted as
he came down from heaven, the Chinese traveller dwelling much upon the Buddhist Creed. Thence
he visited the town of Kanoji, standing on the right bank of the Ganges, that he calls Heng,
and this is the very centre of Buddhism. Wherever Buddha is supposed to have rested, his followers
have erected high towers in his honour. The travellers visited the temple of Tchihouan, where
for twenty-five years Fo practised the most severe mortifications, and where he is said to
have given sight to five hundred blind men. They are said to have been much moved by the sight
of this temple.

They set out again, passing Kapila and Goruckpoor, on the frontier of Nepaul, all made famous
by Fo's miracles, and then reached the celebrated town of Palian-foo, in the delta of the Ganges,
in the kingdom of Magadha. This was a fertile tract of country inhabited by a civilized, upright
people, who loved all philosophic researches. After climbing the peak of Vautour, which stands
at the source of the Dyardanes and Banourah rivers, Fa-Hian descended the Ganges, visited the
temple of Issi-paten that was frequented by magicians and astrologers, reached Benares, "the
kingdom of splendours," and a little lower down, the town of Tomo-li-ti, situated at the mouth
of the river, a short distance from the site of Calcutta in the present day.

Fa-Hian found a party of merchants just preparing to put to sea with the intention of going
to Ceylon; he sailed with them, and in fourteen days landed on the shores of the ancient Taprobana,
of which the Greek merchant, Jamboulos, had given a curious account some centuries previously.
Here the Chinese monk found all the traditions and legends regarding the god Fo, and passed
two years in searching ancient manuscripts. He left Ceylon for Java, where he landed after
a very rough voyage, in the course of which, when the sky was overclouded, he says, "we saw
nothing but great waves dashing one against another, lightning, crocodiles, tortoises, and
monsters of the deep."

He spent five months in Java, and then set sail for Canton; but the winds were again unfavourable,
and after undergoing great hardships he landed at the town of Chantoung of the present day;
then having spent some time at Nankin he returned to Fi-an-foo, his native town, after an absence
of eighteen months. Such is the account of Fa-Hian's travels, which have been well translated
by M. Abel de Rémusat, and which give very interesting details of Indian and Tartar customs,
especially those relating to their religious ceremonies.

The next traveller to the Chinese monk, in chronological order, is an Egyptian called Cosmos
Indicopleustes, a name that M. Charton renders as "Cosmographic traveller in India." He lived
in the sixth century, and was a merchant of Alexandria, who, on his return from visiting Ethiopia
and part of Asia, entered a monastery.

His narrative is called the "Christian Topography of the Universe." It gives no details of
its author's voyages, but begins with cosmographic discussions, to prove that the world is
square, and enclosed in a great oblong coffer with all the other planets. This is followed
by some dissertations on the function of the angels, and a description of the dress of the
Jewish Priests. Cosmos also gives the natural history of the animals of India and Ceylon, and
notices the rhinoceros and buffalo, which can be made of use for domestic purposes, the giraffe,
the wild ox, the musk that is hunted for its "perfumed blood," the unicorn, which he considers
a real animal and not a myth, the wild boar, the hippopotamus, the phoca, the dolphin, and
the tortoise. Afterwards, Cosmos describes the pepper-plant, as a frail and delicate shrub,
like the smallest tendrils of the vine, and the cocoa-tree, whose fruit has a fragrance "equal
to that of a nut."

From the earliest times of the Christian era there has been a great love for visiting the Holy
Land, the cradle of the new religion. These pilgrimages became more and more frequent, and
we have many names left to us of those who visited Palestine during the first centuries of
Christianity.

One of these pilgrims, the French Bishop Arculphe, who lived towards the end of the seventh
century, has left us an account of his travels.

He sets out by giving a topographical description of the site of Jerusalem, and describes the
wall that surrounds the holy city, then the circular church built over the Holy Sepulchre,
the tomb of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the stone that closed it, the church dedicated to the
Virgin Mary, the church built upon Calvary, and the basilica of Constantine on the site of
the place where the real cross was found. These various churches are united in one building,
which also encloses the Tomb of Christ, and Calvary, where our Lord was crucified.

Arculphe then descended into the Valley of Jehoshaphat, which is situated to the east of the
city, and contains the church that covers the tomb of the Virgin; he also saw that of Absalom,
which he calls the Tower of Jehoshaphat. He describes the Mount of Olives that faces the city
beyond the valley, and he prayed in the cave where Jesus prayed. He also went to Mount Zion,
which stands outside the town on the south side; he notices the gigantic fig-tree, on which,
according to tradition, Judas Iscariot hanged himself, and he visited the church of the guest-chamber,
now destroyed.

After making the tour of the city by the Valley of Siloam, and ascending by the brook Cedron,
the bishop returned to the Mount of Olives, which was covered with waving wheat and barley,
grass and wild flowers, and he describes the place where Christ ascended from the summit of
the mountain. On this spot a large church has been built, with three arched porticoes that
are not roofed over or covered in any way, but are open to the sky. "They have not roofed in
this church," says the bishop, "because it was the place whence our Saviour ascended upon a
cloud, and the space open to heaven allows the prayers of the faithful to ascend thither. For
when they paved this church they could not lay the pavement over the place where our Lord's
feet had rested, as, when the stones were laid upon that spot, the earth, as though impatient
of anything not divine resting upon it, threw them up again before the workmen. Beyond this,
the dust bears the impress of the divine feet, and though, day by day, the faithful who visit
the spot efface the marks, they immediately reappear and may be seen perpetually."

After having explored the neighbourhood of Bethany in the midst of the grove of olives, where
the grave of Lazarus is said to be, and where the church, standing on the right hand is supposed
to mark the spot where our Lord usually conversed with His disciples, Arculphe went to Bethlehem,
which is a short distance from the holy city. He describes the birthplace of our Lord, a natural
cave, hollowed out of the rock at the eastern end of the village, the church, built by St.
Helena, the tombs of the three shepherds, upon whom the heavenly light shone at the birth of
our Saviour, the burial-places of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and that of Rachel,
and he visited the oak of Mamre, under which Abraham received the visit of the angels. Thence,
Arculphe went to Jericho, or rather the place where the town once stood, whose walls fell at
the sound of Joshua's trumpets. He explored the place where the children of Israel first rested
in the land of Canaan after crossing the river Jordan, and he speaks of the church of Galgala,
where the twelve stones are placed, which the children of Israel took from the river when they
entered the promised land. He followed the course of the Jordan, and found near one of the
bends of the river on the right bank, and among the most beautiful scenery, about an hour's
walk from the Dead Sea, the place where our Lord was baptized by St. John the Baptist. A cross
is placed to mark the spot, but when the river is swollen, it is covered by the water.

After examining the banks of the Dead Sea and tasting its brackish water, he viewed the source
of the Jordan, at the foot of Libanus, and explored the greater part of the Lake of Tiberias,
visiting the well where the woman of Samaria gave our Lord the water He so much needed, seeing
the fountain in the desert of which St. John the Baptist drank, and the great plain of Gaza,
where our Lord blessed the five loaves and two fishes, and fed the multitude. Next he went
down to Capernaum, of which there are now no remains; then visited Nazareth, where our Lord
spent His childhood, and ended his journey at Mount Tabor in Galilee.

The bishop's narrative contains both geographical and historical accounts of other places,
beyond those immediately connected with our Lord's life on earth. He visited the royal city
of Damascus, which is watered by four large rivers. Also Tyre, the chief town of Phoenicia,
which, though once separated from the mainland, was joined to it again by the jetty or pier
made by the orders of Nabuchodonosor. He speaks of Alexandria, once the capital of Egypt, which
he reached forty days after leaving Jaffa, and lastly, of Constantinople, where he often visited
the large church in which "the wood of the cross is preserved, upon which the Saviour suffered
for the salvation of the human race."

The account of this journey was written by the Abbé de St. Columban at the dictation of the
bishop, and not many years afterwards the same journey was undertaken by an English pilgrim,
and accomplished in much the same way. The name of this pilgrim was Willibald, a member of
a rich family living at Southampton, who, on his recovery from a long illness, dedicated him
to God's service. All his early life was spent in holy exercises in the monastery of Woltheim;
when he was grown up he had the most intense wish to see St. Peter's at Rome, and was so set
upon this, that it induced his father, brother, and young sister to wish to go there also;
they embarked at Southampton in the spring of 721, and making their way up the Seine, they
landed at Rouen. We have but few details of the journey to Rome, but Willibald mentions that
after passing through Cortona and Lucca, at which latter place his father sank under the fatigue
of the journey and died, he reached Rome in safety with his brother and sister, and passed
the winter there, but they were all in turn attacked with fever. When Willibald regained his
health, he determined to continue his journey to the Holy Land. He sent his brother and sister
back to England, while he joined some monks who were going in the same direction as himself.
They went by Terracina and Gaeta to Naples, and set sail for Reggio in Calabria, and Catania
and Syracuse in Sicily, whence they again embarked, and, after touching at Cos and Samos, landed
at Ephesus in Asia Minor, where they visited the tombs of St. John the Evangelist, of Mary
Magdalene, and of the seven sleepers of Ephesus, that is, seven Christians martyred in the
time of the Emperor Decius.

They made some stay at Patara and at Mitylene, and then went to Cyprus and Paphos; we next
find the party, seven in number, at Edessa, visiting the tomb of St. Thomas the Apostle. Here
they were arrested as spies, and thrown into prison by the Saracens, but the king, on the petition
of a Spaniard, set them at liberty. As soon as they were set free they left the town in great
haste, and from that time their route is almost the same as that of the Bishop Arculphe; they
visited Damascus, Nazareth, Cana, where they saw a wonderful amphora on Mount Tabor, where
our Lord was transfigured, and the Lake of Tiberias, where St. Peter walked upon the water;
Magdala, where Lazarus and his sister dwelt; Capernaum, where our Lord raised to life the son
of the nobleman; Bethsaida in Galilee, the native place of St. Peter and St. Andrew; Chorazin,
where our Lord cured those possessed with devils; Cæsarea, and the spot where our Lord was
baptized, as well as Jericho and Jerusalem.

They also went to the Valley of Jehoshaphat, the Mount of Olives, and to Bethlehem, the scene
of the murder of the Innocents by Herod, and Gaza. While they were at Gaza, Willibald tells
us that he suddenly became blind, while he was in the church of St. Matthias, and only recovered
his sight two months afterwards, as he entered the church of the Holy Cross at Jerusalem. He
went through the valley of Diospolis or Lydda, ten miles from Jerusalem, and then went to Tyre
and Sidon, and thence, by Libanus, Damascus, Cæsarea, and Emmaus, back to Jerusalem, where
the travellers spent the winter.

This was not to be the limit of their exploration, for we hear of them at Ptolemais, Emesa,
Jerusalem, Damascus, and Samaria, where St. John the Baptist is said to have been buried, and
at Tyre, where it must be confessed that Willibald defrauded the revenue of that time by smuggling
some balsam that was very celebrated, and on which a duty was levied. On quitting Tyre they
went to Constantinople and lived there for two years before returning by Sicily, Calabria,
Naples, and Capua. The English pilgrim reached the monastery of Monte Cassino, just ten years
after his first setting out on his travels; but his time of rest had not yet come, as he was
appointed to a bishopric in Franconia by Pope Gregory III. He was forty-one years of age when
he was made bishop, and he lived forty years afterwards. In 938 he was canonized by Leo VII.

We will conclude the list of celebrated travellers living between the first and ninth centuries,
by giving a short account of Soleyman, a merchant of Bassorah, who, starting from the Persian
Gulf, arrived eventually on the shores of China. This narrative is in two distinct parts, one
written in 851, by Soleyman himself, who was the traveller, and the other in 878 by a geographer
named Abou-Zeyd Hassan with the view of completing the first. Renaud, the orientalist, is of
opinion that this narrative "has thrown quite a new light on the commercial transactions that
existed in the ninth century between Egypt, Arabia, and the countries bordering on the Persian
Gulf on one side, and the vast provinces of India and China on the other."

Soleyman, as we have said, started from the Persian Gulf after having taken in a good supply
of fresh water at Muscat, and visited first, the second sea, or that of Oman. He noticed a
fish of enormous size, probably a spermaceti whale, which the seamen endeavoured to frighten
away by ringing a bell, then a shark, in whose stomach they found a smaller shark, enclosing
in its turn one still smaller, "both alive," says the traveller, which is manifestly an exaggeration;
then, after describing the remora, the dactyloptera, and the porpoise, he speaks of the sea
near the Maldive Islands in which he counted an enormous number of islands, among them he mentions
Ceylon by its Arabian name, with its pearl fisheries; Sumatra, inhabited by cannibals, and
rich in gold-mines; Nicobar, and the Andaman Islands, where cannibalism still exists even at
the present day. "This sea," he says, "is subject to fearful water-spouts which wreck the ships,
and throw on its shores an immense number of dead fish and sometimes even large stones. When
these tempests are at their height the sea seethes and boils." Soleyman imagined it to be infested
by a sort of monster who preyed upon human beings; this is thought to have been a kind of dog-fish.

Arrived at Nicobar, Soleyman traded with the inhabitants, bartering some iron for cocoa-nuts,
sugar-cane, bananas, &c.; he then crossed the sea, and seems to have made for Singapore, and
northwards by the Gulf of Siam. Soleyman put into a harbour, near Cape Varella, to revictual
his ships, and thence he went by the China Sea to Jehan-fou the port of the present town of
Tche-kiang. The remainder of the account of Soleyman's travels, written by Abou-Zeyd Hassan,
contains a detailed account of the manners and customs of the Indians and Chinese; but it is
not the traveller himself who is speaking, and we shall find the same subjects spoken of in
a more interesting manner by later authors.

We must add, in reviewing the discoveries made by travellers sixteen centuries before, and
nine centuries after, the Christian era, that from Norway to the extreme boundaries of China,
taking a line through the Atlantic ocean, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean,
and the Sea of China, the immense extent of coast bordering these seas had been in a great
measure visited. Some explorations had been attempted in the interior of these countries; for
instance, in Egypt as far as Ethiopia, in Asia Minor to the Caucasus, in India and China; and
if these old travellers may not have quite understood mathematical precision, as to some of
the points they visited, at all events the manners and customs of the inhabitants, the productions
of the different countries, the mode of trading with them, and their religious customs, were
quite sufficiently understood. Ships could sail with more safety when the change of winds was
no longer a subject of mere speculation, the caravans could take a more direct route in the
interior of the countries, and the great increase of trade which took place in the middle ages
is surely owing to the facilities afforded by the writings of travellers.

In the course of the tenth, and at the beginning of the eleventh century, a considerable amount
of ardour for exploration had arisen in Northern Europe. Some Norwegians and adventurous Gauls
had penetrated to the Northern seas, and, if we may trust to some accounts, they had gone as
far as the White Sea and visited the country of the Samoyedes. Some documents say that Prince
Madoc may have explored the American continent.

At all events we may be tolerably certain that Iceland was discovered about A.D. 861 by some
Scandinavian adventurers, and that it was soon after colonized by Normans. About this same
time a Norwegian had taken refuge on a newly discovered land, and surprised by its verdure
he gave it the name of Greenland.

The communication with this portion of the American continent was difficult and uncertain,
and one geographer says "it took five years for a vessel to go from Norway to Greenland, and
to return from Greenland to Norway." Sometimes in severe winters the Northern Ocean was completely
frozen over, and a certain Hollur-Geit, guided by a goat, was able to cross on foot from Norway
to Greenland. We should keep in mind that the period of which we are speaking is the time when
legends and traditions were very plentiful, and gained ready credence.

Let us return to well-authenticated facts, and relate the journey of a Spanish Jew, whose truthfulness
is beyond question.

This Jew was the son of a rabbi of Tudela, a town in Navarre, and he was called Benjamin of
Tudela. It seems probable that the object of his voyage was to make a census of his brother
Jews scattered over the surface of the Globe, but whatever may have been his motive, he spent
thirteen years, from 1160-1173, exploring nearly all the known world, and his narrative was
considered the great authority on this subject up to the sixteenth century.

Benjamin of Tudela left Barcelona, and travelling by Tarragona, Gironde, Narbonne, Béziers,
Montpellier, Sunel, Pousquiers, St. Gilles, and Arles, reached Marseilles. Here he visited
the two synagogues in the town and the principal Jews, and then set sail for Genoa, arriving
there in four days. The Genoese were masters of the sea at that time, and were at war with
the people of Pisa, a brave people, who, like the Genoese, says the traveller, "owned neither
kings nor princes, but only the judges whom they appointed at their own pleasure."

After visiting Lucca, Benjamin of Tudela went to Rome. Alexander III. was Pope at that time,
and according to this traveller, he included some Jews among his ministers. Among the monuments
of special interest in the eternal city, he mentions St. Peter's and St. John Lateran, but
his descriptions are not interesting. From Rome by Capua, and Pozzuoli, then partly inundated,
he went to Naples, where he seems to have seen nothing but the five hundred Jews living there;
then by Salerno, Amalfi, Benevento, Ascoli, Trani, St. Nicholas of Bari, and Brindisi, he arrived
at Otranto, having crossed Italy and yet found nothing interesting to relate of this splendid
country.

The list of the places Benjamin of Tudela visited, is not interesting, but we must not omit
to mention one of them, for his narrative is most precise, and it is useful to follow his route
by the maps specially prepared for this purpose by Lelewel. From Otranto to Zeitun, his halting-places
were Corfu, the Gulf of Arta, Achelous, an ancient town in Ætolia, Anatolia in Greece, on the
Gulf of Patras, Patras, Lepanto, Crissa, at the foot of Mount Parnassus, Corinth, Thebes, whose
two thousand Jewish inhabitants were the best makers of silk and purple in Greece, Negropont
and Zeitoun. Here, according to the Spanish traveller, is the boundary-line of Wallachia; he
says the Wallachians are as nimble as goats, and come down from the mountains to pillage the
neighbouring Greek towns.

Benjamin of Tudela went on to Constantinople by way of Gardiki, a small township on the Gulf
of Volo, Armyros, a port much frequented by the Venetians and Genoese, Bissina, a town of which
no traces are left, Salonica, the ancient Thessalonica, and Abydos. He gives us some details
of Constantinople; the Emperor Emmanuel Comnenus was reigning at that time and lived in a palace
that he had built upon the sea-shore, containing columns of pure gold and silver, and "the
golden throne studded with precious stones, above which a golden crown is suspended by a chain
of the same precious metal, which rests upon the monarch's head as he sits upon the throne."
In this crown are many precious stones, and one of priceless worth: "so brilliant are they,"
says this traveller, "that at night, there is no occasion for any further light than that thrown
back by these jewels." He adds that there is a large population in the city, and for the number
of merchants from all countries who assemble there, it can only be compared to Baghdad. The
inhabitants are principally dressed in embroidered silk robes enriched with golden fringes,
and to see them thus attired and mounted upon their horses, one would take them for princes,
but they are not brave warriors, and they keep mercenaries from all nations to fight for them.
One regret he expresses, and that is, that there are no Jews left in the City, and that they
have all been transported to Galata, near the entrance of the port, where are nearly two thousand
five hundred of the sects (Rabbinites and Caraites), and among them many rich merchants and
silk manufacturers, but the Turks have a bitter hatred for them, and treat them with great
severity. Only one of these rich Jews was allowed to ride on horseback, he was the Emperor's
physician, Solomon, the Egyptian. As to the remarkable buildings of Constantinople, he mentions
the Mosque of St. Sophia, in which the number of altars answers to the number of days in a
year, and the columns and gold and silver candlesticks, are too numerous to be counted; also
the Hippodrome, which at the present day is used as a horse-market, but was then the scene
of combats between "lions, bears, tigers, other wild beasts, and even birds."

When Benjamin of Tudela left Constantinople, he visited Gallipoli and Kilia, a port on the
Eastern coast, and went to the islands in the Archipelago, Mitylene, Chios, whence there was
much trade in the juice of the pistachio-tree, Samos, Rhodes, and Cyprus. As he sailed towards
the land of Aram, he passed by Messis, by Antioch, where he admired the arrangements for supplying
the city with water, and by Latakia on his way to Tripoli, which he found had been recently
shaken by an earthquake, that had been felt for miles round. We next hear of him at Beyrout,
at Sidon, and Tyre, celebrated for its glass manufactory, at Acre, at Jaffa near Mount Carmel,
at Capernaum, at the beautiful town of Cæsarea, at Samaria, which is built in the midst of
a fertile tract, where are vineyards, gardens, orchards, and olive-yards, at Nablous, at Gibeon,
and then at Jerusalem.

In the holy city, it was but natural that the Jew could see nothing that would have interested
a Christian visitor. For him, Jerusalem appeared only a small town, defended by three walls
and peopled with Jews, Syrians, Greeks, Georgians, and Franks of all languages and nations.
He found four hundred horse-soldiers in the city ready for war at any moment, a great temple
in which is the tomb of "that man," as the Talmud styles our Saviour, and a house in which
the Jews had the privilege of carrying on the work of dyeing; but they were few in number,
scarcely two hundred, and they lived under the tower of David at one corner of the city. Outside
Jerusalem, the traveller mentions the tomb of Absalom, the sepulchre of Osias, the pool of
Siloam, near the brook Cedron, the valley of Jehoshaphat, and the Mount of Olives, from whose
summit one can see the Dead Sea. Two leagues from it stands the pillar of Lot's wife, and the
traveller adds, "that though the flocks and herds which pass this pillar of salt are continually
licking it, yet it never diminishes in size." From Jerusalem, Benjamin of Tudela went to Bethlehem,
and inscribed his name on Rachel's tomb, as it was customary for all Jews to do who passed
by it; and from Bethlehem, after counting twelve Jewish dyeing establishments, he went on to
Hebron, which is now deserted and in ruins.

After visiting, in the plain of Machpelah, the tombs of Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Rebekah, Jacob,
and Leah, and passing by Beth-Jairim, Scilo, Mount Moriah, Beth-Nubi, Ramah, Joppa, Jabneh,
Azotus, Ascalon, built by Esdras, Lud, Tiberias, where are some hot springs, Gish and Merom,
which is still a spot visited by Jewish pilgrims, Kedesh and Laish, near the cavern, where
the Jordan takes its rise, the traveller left the land of Israel, and entered Damascus.

The following is his description of this city, where the Turkish rule begins. "It is a very
large and beautiful city, walled round, and outside the walls for fifteen miles are gardens
and orchards, and of all the surrounding country, this is the most fertile spot. The town stands
at the foot of Mount Hermon, whence rise the two rivers, Abana and Pharpar; the first passes
through the city, and its waters are taken into the larger houses by means of aqueducts, as
well as through the streets and markets. This town trades with all the world. The river Pharpar
fertilizes the orchards and gardens outside the town. There is an Ishmaelitish mosque, called
Goman-Dammesec, meaning the synagogue of Damascus, and this building has not its equal; it
is said to have been Benhadad's palace, and it contains a glass wall, built apparently by magic.
This wall has 365 holes in it, answering to the days of the year; as the sun rises and sets
it shines through one or other of these holes, so that the hour of the day may thus always
be known. Inside the palace or mosque are gold and silver houses, large enough to hold two
or three persons at a time, if they wish to wash or bathe in them."

After going to Galad and Salkah, which are two days' journey from Damascus, Benjamin reached
Baalbec, the Heliopolis of the Greeks and Romans, built by Solomon, in the valley of the Libanus,
then to Tadmor, which is Palmyra, also built entirely of great stones. Then passing by Cariatin,
he stopped at Hamah, which was partially destroyed by an earthquake in 1157, which overthrew
many of the Syrian towns.

Now comes in the narrative a list of names, which are of no great interest: we may mention
among them, Nineveh, whence the traveller returned towards the Euphrates; and finally that
he reached Baghdad, the residence of the Caliph.

Baghdad was of great interest to the Jewish traveller; he says it is a large town three miles
in circumference, containing a hospital both for Jews and sick people of any nation. It is
the centre for learned men, philosophers, and magicians from all parts of the world. It is
the residence of the Caliph, who at this time was probably Mostaidjed, whose dominion included
western Persia and the banks of the Tigris. He had a vast palace, standing in a park watered
by a tributary of the Tigris and filled with wild beasts, he may be taken as a model sovereign
on some points; he was a good and very truthful man, kind and considerate to all with whom
he came in contact. He lived on the produce of his own toil, and made blankets, which, marked
with his own seal, were sold in the market by the princes of his court, to defray the expense
of his living. He only left his palace once a year, at the feast of Ramadan, when he went to
the mosque near the Bassorah gate, and there acting as Iman, he explained the law to his people.
He returned to his palace by a different route which was carefully guarded all the rest of
the year, so that no other passer by might profane the marks of his footsteps. All the brothers
of the Caliph inhabit the same palace as he does; they are all treated with much respect, and
have the government of provinces and towns in their hands, the revenues from them enabling
them to pass a pleasant life; only, as they once rebelled against their sovereign, they are
now all fettered with chains of iron, and have guards mounted before their houses.

Benjamin of Tudela visited that part of Turkey in Asia which is watered by the Euphrates and
Tigris, and saw the ruined city of Babylon, passing by what is said to be the furnace into
which Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were thrown, and the tower of Babel, which he describes
as follows. "The tower built by the tribes that were dispersed is of bricks; its largest ground
work must be two miles in circumference; its length is two hundred and forty cubits. At every
ten cubits there is a passage leading to a spiral staircase, which goes to the upper part of
the building; from the tower there is a view of the surrounding country for twenty miles; but
the wrath of God fell upon it and it is now only a heap of ruins."

From Babel the traveller went to the Synagogue of Ezekiel, situated on the Euphrates, a real
sanctuary where believers congregate to read the book written by the prophet. Then traversing
Alkotzonath, &c., to Sura, once the site of a celebrated Jewish college, and Shafjathib, whose
synagogue is built with stones from Jerusalem, and crossing the desert of Yemen he passed Themar,
Tilimar, and Chaibar which contained a great number of Jewish inhabitants, to Waseth; and thence
to Bassorah on the Tigris, nearly at the end of the Persian Gulf.

He gives no account of this important town; and thence he seems to have gone to Karna, to visit
the tomb of the prophet Esdras; then he entered Persia and sojourned at Chuzestan, a large
town, partly in ruins, which the river Tigris divides into two parts, one rich the other poor,
joined by a bridge, over which hangs the coffin of Daniel the prophet. He went to Amaria, which
is the boundary of Media, where he says the impostor David-el-roi appeared, the worker of false
miracles, who is none other than our Lord Jesus Christ, but called among the Jews of that part
by the former name. Then he went to Hamadan, where the tombs of Mordecai and Esther are found,
and by Dabrestan he reached Ispahan, the capital of the kingdom, a city measuring twelve miles
in circumference. At this point the narrative of the traveller becomes somewhat obscure; according
to his notes we find him at Shiraz, then at Samarcand, then at the foot of the mountains in
Thibet. This seems to have been his farthest point towards the north-east; he must have come
back to Nizapur and Chuzestan on the banks of the Tigris; thence after a sea voyage of two
days to El-Cachif, an Arabian town on the Persian Gulf, where the pearl fishery is carried
on. Then, after another voyage of seven days and crossing the Sea of Oman, he seems to have
reached Quilon on the coast of Malabar.

He was at last in India, the kingdom of the worshippers of the Sun and of the descendants of
Cush. This country produces pepper, ginger, and cinnamon. Twenty days after leaving Quilon
he was among the fire-worshippers in Ceylon, and thence, perhaps, he went to China. He thought
this voyage a very perilous one, and says that many vessels are lost on it, giving the following
singular expedient for averting the danger. "You should take on board with you several skins
of oxen, and, if the wind rises and threatens the vessel with danger, all who wish to escape
envelope themselves each in a skin, sew up this skin so as to make it as far as possible water-tight,
then throw themselves into the sea, and flocks of the great eagles called griffins, thinking
that they are really oxen, will descend and bear them on their wings to some mountain or valley,
there to devour their prey. Immediately on reaching land the man will kill the eagle with his
knife, and leaving the skin, will walk towards the nearest habitation; many people," he adds,
"have been saved by this means."

We find Benjamin of Tudela again at Ceylon, then at the Island of Socotra in the Persian Gulf,
and after crossing the Red Sea he arrives in Abyssinia, which he styles "the India that is
on terra firma." Thence he goes down the Nile, crosses the country of Assouan, reaches the
town of Holvan, and by the Sahara, where the sand swallows up whole caravans, he goes to Zairlah,
Kous, Faiouna and Misraim or Cairo.

This last is a large town containing fine squares and shops. It never rains there, but this
want is supplied by the overflow of the Nile once a year, which waters the country and renders
it very fertile.

He passed Gizeh on leaving Misraim but does not mention the pyramids, and just names Ain-Schams,
Boutig, Zefita, and Damira; he stopped at Alexandria, built by Alexander the Great, a city
of great commerce, frequented by merchants from all parts of the world. Its squares and streets
are thronged with people, and so long that one cannot see from one end to another. A dike or
causeway runs out a mile into the sea, on which a high tower was built by the conqueror, and
on the top of it a glass mirror was placed, by which all vessels could be seen while still
fifty days' sail away, coming from Greece or the east on their way to make war upon or otherwise
harm the town. "This tower," if we may credit the writer, "is still of use as a signal to vessels
coming to Alexandria, for it can be seen night or day, a great flaming torch being kept lighted
at night, visible 100 miles off!" What are our light-houses when even with the electric light
they are only visible thirty miles away? From Damietta, the traveller visited several neighbouring
towns, then returning there he embarked on board a vessel and twenty days afterwards landed
at Messina. He wished to continue the census that he was making, so by way of Rome and Lucca
he went to St. Bernard. He mentions visiting several towns both in Germany and France, where
Jews had settled, and according to Chateaubriand's account, Benjamin of Tudela's computation
brought the number of Jews to about 768,165.

In conclusion the traveller speaks of Paris, which he seems to have visited; he says, "This
great town numbers among its inhabitants some remarkably learned men, who are unequalled for
learning by any in the world; they spend all their time studying law, and at the same time
are very hospitable to all strangers, but especially to all their Jewish brethren." Such is
the account of Benjamin of Tudela's travels; they form an important part of the geographical
science of the middle of the twelfth century. As we have used the modern names, it is easy
to follow the short account of his route that we have given, on any atlas of the present day.

Next in order of succession we come to the name of Jean du Plan de Carpin, or as some authors
render it simply, Carpini. He was a Franciscan or Grey Friar, born in 1182, at Perugia in Italy.
It is well known what inroads the Mongolians had made under Gengis-Khan, and in 1206 this chieftain
had made Karakorum, an ancient Turkish town, his capital. This town was a little north of China.
His successor Ojadaï, extended the Mongolian dominion into the centre of China, and, after
raising an army of 600,000 men, he even invaded Europe. Russia, Georgia, Poland, Moravia, Silesia,
and Hungary, all became the scenes of sanguinary conflicts which almost always ended in favour
of the invaders. The Mongols were looked upon as demons possessed with superhuman power, and
Western Europe was terrified at their approach.

Pope Innocent IV. sent an ambassador to the Tartars, but he was treated with arrogance; at
the same time he sent other ambassadors to the Tartars living in North-Eastern Tartary, in
the hope of stopping the Mongolian invasion, and as chief in this mission, the Franciscan Carpini
was chosen, being known to be a clever and intelligent diplomatist. Carpini was accompanied
by Stephen, a Bohemian; they set out on the 6th of April, 1245, and went first to Bohemia,
where the king gave them letters to some relations living in Poland, who he hoped might facilitate
their entrance into Russia. Carpini had no difficulty in reaching the territory of the Archduke
of Russia, and by his advice they bought beaver and other furs as presents for the Tartar chiefs.
Thus provided, they took a north-easterly route to Kiev, then the chief town of Russia and
now the seat of Government of that part, but they travelled in fear of the Lithuanians, who
scoured the country at that time.

The Governor of Kiev advised the Pope's envoys to exchange their own for Tartar horses, who
were accustomed to seek for their food under the snow, and thus mounted they had no difficulty
in getting as far as Danilisha. There they both were attacked by severe illness; when nearly
recovered they bought a carriage, and in spite of the intense cold set out again. Arrived at
Kaniev, on the Dnieper, they found themselves in the frontier town of the Mongol empire, and
hence they were conducted to the Tartar camp by one of the chiefs, whom they had made their
friend by gifts. In the camp they were badly received at first, but being directed to the Duke
of Corrensa, who commanded an army of 60,000 men forming the advanced guard: this general sent
them with an escort of three Tartars to Prince Bathy, the next in command to the Emperor himself.
Relays of horses were prepared for them on the road, they travelled night and day, and thus
passed through the Comans' country lying between the Dnieper, the Tanais, the Volga, and the
Yaik, frequently having to cross the frozen rivers, and finally reaching the court of Prince
Bathy on the frontiers of the Comans' country. "As we were being conducted to the prince,"
says Carpini, "we were told that we should have to pass between two fires, in order to purify
us from any infection we might carry, and also to do away with any evil designs we might have
towards the prince, which we agreed to do that we might be freed from all suspicion."

The prince was seated on his throne in the midst of his courtiers and officers in a magnificent
tent made of fine linen. He had the reputation of being a just and kind ruler of his people,
but very cruel in war. Carpini and Stephen were placed on the left of the throne, and the papal
letters, translated into a language composed of Tartar and Arabic, were presented to the prince.
He read them attentively and then dismissed the envoys to their tents, where their only refreshment
was a little porringer full of millet.

This interview took place on Good Friday, and the next day Bathy sent for the envoys, and told
them they must go to the Emperor. They set out on Easter-day with two guides; but having lived
upon nothing but millet, water, and salt, the travellers were but little fit for a journey;
nevertheless their guides obliged them to travel very quickly, changing horses five or six
times in a day. They passed through almost a desert country, the Tartars having driven away
nearly all the inhabitants. They came next to the country of the Kangites to the east of Comania,
where there was a great deficiency of water; in this province the people were mostly herdsmen,
under the hard yoke of the Mongolians.

Carpini was travelling from Easter till Ascension-Day through the land of the Kangites, and
thence he came into the Biserium country, or what we call Turkestan in the present day; on
all sides the eye rested on towns and villages in ruins. After crossing a chain of mountains
the envoys entered Kara-Kâty on the 1st of July; here the governor received them very hospitably,
and made his sons and the principal officers of his court dance before them for their amusement.

On leaving Kara-Kâty the envoys rode for some days along the banks of a lake lying to the north
of the town of Zeman, which must be, according to M. de Rémusat, the Lake Balkash. There lived
Ordu, the eldest of the Tartar captains, and here Carpini and Stephen took a day's rest before
encountering the cold and mountainous country of the Maimans, a nomadic people living in tents.
After some days the travellers reached the country of the Mongols, and on the 22nd of July
arrived at the place where the Emperor was, or rather he who was to be Emperor, the election
having not yet taken place.

This future Emperor was named Cunius; he received the envoys in a most friendly manner, a letter
from Prince Bathy having explained to him the object of their visit; not being yet Emperor
he could not entertain them nor take any part in public affairs, but from the time of Ojadaï's
death, his widow, the mother of Prince Cunius had been Regent; she received the travellers
in a purple and white tent capable of holding 2000 persons. Carpini gives the following account
of the interview: "When we arrived we saw a large assembly of dukes and princes who had come
from all parts with their attendants, who were on horseback in the neighbouring fields and
on the hills. The first day they were all dressed in white and purple, on the second when Cunius
appeared in the tent, in red, on the third day they wore violet, and on the fourth, scarlet,
or crimson. Outside the tent, in the surrounding palisade were two great gates, by one of which
the Emperor alone might enter; it was unguarded, but none dared to enter or leave by it; while
the other, which was the general entrance, was guarded by soldiers with swords, and bows and
arrows; if any one approached within the prescribed limits he was beaten, or else shot to death
with arrows. We noticed several horsemen there, on whose harness cannot have been less than
twenty marks' worth of silver."

A whole month passed away before Cunius was proclaimed Emperor, and the envoys were obliged
to wait patiently for this before they could be received by him. Carpini turned this leisure
time to account by studying the habits of the people; he has given much interesting information
on the subject in his account of his travels.

The country seemed to him to be principally very hilly and the soil sandy, with but little
vegetation. There is scarce any wood; but all classes are content with dung for fuel. Though
the country is so bare, sheep seem to do well. The climate is very changeable; in summer, storms
are very frequent, many fall victims to the vivid lightning, and the wind is often so strong
as even to blow over men on horseback: during the winter there is no rain, which all falls
in the summer, and then scarcely enough to lay the dust, while the storms of hail are terrible;
during Carpini's residence in the country they were so severe that once 140 persons were drowned
by the melting of the enormous mass of hail-stones that had fallen. It is a very extensive
country, but miserable beyond expression.

Carpini who seems to have been a man of great discernment took a very just idea of the Tartars
themselves. He says, "Their eyes are set very far apart; they have very high cheek-bones, their
noses are small and flat; their eyes small, and their eye-lashes and eyebrows seem to meet;
they are of middle height with slender waists, they have small beards, some wear moustaches,
and what are now called imperials. On the top of the head the hair is shaved off like monks,
and to the width of three fingers between their ears they also shave off the hair, letting
what is between the tonsure and the back of the head grow to some length; in fact it is as
long as a woman's in many cases, and plaited and tied in two tails behind the ear. They have
small feet. He says there is but little difference perceptible in the dress of the men and
women, all alike wearing long robes trimmed with fur, and high buckram caps enlarged towards
the upper part. Their houses are built like tents of rods and stakes, so that they can be easily
taken down and packed on the beasts of burden. Other larger dwellings are sometimes carried
whole as they stand, on carts, and thus follow their owner about the country.

"The Tartars believe in God as the Creator of the universe and as the Rewarder and Avenger
of all, but they also worship the sun, moon, fire, earth, and water, and idols made in felt,
like human beings. They have little toleration, and put Michael of Turnigoo and Féodor to death
for not worshipping the sun at midday at the command of Prince Bathy. They are a superstitious
people, believing in enchantment and sorcery, and looking upon fire as the purifier of all
things. When one of their chiefs dies he is buried with a horse saddled and bridled, a table,
a dish of meat, a cup of mare's milk, and a mare and foal.

"The Tartars are most obedient to their chiefs, and are truthful and not quarrelsome; murders
and deeds of violence are rare, there is very little robbery, and articles of value are never
guarded. They bear great fatigue and hunger without complaint, as well as heat and cold, singing
and dancing under the most adverse circumstances. They are much prone to drink to excess; they
are very proud and disdainful to strangers, and have no respect for the lives of human beings."

Carpini completes his sketch of the Tartar character by adding that they eat all kinds of animals,
dogs, wolves, foxes, horses, and even sometimes their fellow-creatures. Their principal beverage
is the milk of the mare, sheep, goat, cow, and camel. They have neither wine, cervisia, (a
beverage composed of grain and herbs,) nor mead, but only intoxicating liquors. They are very
dirty in their habits, scarcely ever washing their porringers, or only doing so in their broth;
they hardly ever wash their clothes, more especially "when there is thunder about;" and they
eat rats, mice, &c., if they are badly off for other food. The men are not brought up to any
manual labour, their whole occupation consisting in hunting, shooting with bow and arrows,
watching the flocks, and riding. The women and girls are very athletic and very brave, they
prepare furs and make clothes, drive carts and camels, and as polygamy is practised among them,
and a man buys as many wives as he can keep, there are enough women for all these employments.

Such is the résumé of Carpini's observations made during his residence at Syra-Orda while he
was awaiting the Emperor's election. Soon he found that the election was about to take place;
he noticed that the courtiers always sang before Cunius when he came out of his tent, and bowed
down before him with beautiful little wands in their hands, having small pieces of scarlet
wool attached to them. On a plain about four leagues from Syra-Orda, beside a stream, a tent
was prepared for the Coronation, carpeted with scarlet, and supported on columns covered with
gold. On St. Bartholomew's day a large concourse of people assembled, each one fell on his
knees as he arrived, and remained praying towards the sun; but Carpini and his companion refused
to join in this idolatrous worship of the sun. Then Cunius was placed on the imperial throne,
and the dukes and all the assembled multitudes having done homage to him, he was consecrated.

As soon as this ceremony was over, Carpini and Stephen were commanded to appear before the
Emperor. They were first searched and then entered the imperial presence at the same time as
other Ambassadors, the bearers of rich presents; the poor papal envoys had nothing to present;
whether this had anything to do with the length of time they had to wait before his Imperial
Majesty could attend to their affairs we do not know; but days passed slowly by, and they were
nearly dying of hunger and thirst, before they received a summons to appear before the Secretary
of the Emperor, and letters to the Pope were given to them, ending with these words, "we worship
GOD, and by His help we shall destroy the whole earth from east to west."

The envoys had now nothing to wait for, and during the whole of the winter they travelled across
icy deserts. About May they again arrived at the court of Prince Bathy, who gave them free
passes, and they reached Kiev about the middle of June, 1247. On the 9th of October of the
same year the Pope made Carpini Bishop of Antivari in Dalmatia, and this celebrated traveller
died at Rome about the year 1251.

Carpini's mission was not of much use, and the Tartars remained much as they were before, a
savage and ferocious tribe; but six years after his return another monk of the minor order
of Franciscans, named William Rubruquis, of Belgian origin, was sent to the barbarians who
lived in the country between the Volga and the Don. The object of this journey was as follows,--

St. Louis was waging war against the Saracens of Syria at this time, and while he was engaging
the Infidels, Erkalty, a Mongol prince, attacked them on the side nearest to Persia, and thus
caused a diversion that was in favour of the King of France. The report arose that Prince Erkalty
had become a Christian, and St. Louis, anxious to prove the truth of it, charged Rubruquis
to go into the prince's own country and there make what observations he could upon the subject.

In the month of June 1253, Rubruquis and his companions embarked for Constantinople. From thence
they reached the mouth of the river Don on the Sea of Azov where they found a great number
of Goths. On their arrival among the Tartars, their reception was at first very inhospitable,
but after presenting the letters with which they were furnished, Zagathal, the governor of
that province, gave them waggons, horses, and oxen for their journey.

Thus equipped they set out and were much surprised next day by meeting a moving village; that
is to say, all the huts were placed on waggons and were being moved away. During the ten days
that Rubruquis and his companions were passing through this part of the country they were very
badly treated, and had it not been for their own store of biscuits, they must have died of
starvation. After passing by the end of the Sea of Azov they went in an easterly direction
and crossed a sandy desert on which neither tree nor stone was visible. This was the country
of the Comans that Carpini had traversed, but in a more northerly part. Rubruquis left the
mountains inhabited by the Circassians to the south, and after a wearisome journey of two months
arrived at the camp of Prince Sartach on the banks of the Volga.

This was the court of the prince, the son of Baatu-Khan; he had six wives, each of whom possessed
a palace of her own, some houses, and a great number of chariots, some of them very large,
being drawn by a team of twenty-two oxen harnessed in pairs.

Sartach received the envoys of the King of France very graciously, and seeing their poverty,
he supplied them with all that they required. They were to be presented to the prince in their
sacerdotal dress, when, bearing on a cushion a splendid Bible, the gift of the King of France,
a Psalter given by the Queen, a Missal, a crucifix and a censer, they entered the royal presence,
taking good care not to touch the threshold of the door, which would have been considered profanation.
Once in the royal presence, they sang the "Salve Regina." After the prince and those of the
princesses who were present at the ceremony had examined the books, &c., that the monks had
brought with them, the envoys were allowed to retire; it being impossible for Rubruquis to
form any opinion as to Sartach's being a Christian, or not; but his work was not yet finished,
the prince having pressed the envoys to go to his father's court. Rubruquis complied with the
request, and crossing the country lying between the Volga and the Don, they arrived at their
destination. There the same ceremonies had to be gone through as at the court of Prince Sartach.
The monks had to prepare their books, &c., and be presented to the Khan, who was seated on
a large gilded throne, but not wishing to treat with the envoys himself, he sent them to Karakorum,
to the court of Mangu-khan.

They crossed the country of the Bashkirs and visited Kenchat, Talach, passed the Axiartes and
reached Equius, a town of which the position cannot be accurately ascertained in the present
day; then by the land of Organum, by the Lake of Balkash, and the territory of the Uigurs,
they arrived at Karakorum, the capital of the Mongolian empire, where Carpini had stopped without
entering the town.

This town, says Rubruquis, was surrounded with walls of earth, and had four gates in the walls.
The principal buildings it contained were two mosques and a Christian church. While in this
city, the monk made many interesting observations on the surrounding people, especially upon
the Tangurs, whose oxen, of a remarkable race, are no other than the Yaks, so celebrated in
Thibet. In speaking of the Thibetans he notices their most extraordinary custom of eating the
bodies of their fathers and mothers, in order to secure their having an honourable sepulture.

When Rubruquis and his companions reached Karakorum, they found that the great khan was not
in his capital, but in one of his palaces which was situated on the further side of the mountains
which rise in the northern part of the country. They followed him there, and the next day after
their arrival presented themselves before him with bare feet, according to the Franciscan custom,
so securing for themselves frozen toes. Rubruquis thus describes the interview: "Mangu-Khan
is a man of middle height with a flat nose; he was lying on a couch clad in a robe of bright
fur, which was speckled like the skin of a sea-calf." He was surrounded with falcons and other
birds. Several kinds of beverages, arrack punch, fermented mare's milk, and ball, a kind of
mead, were offered to the envoys; but they refused them all. The khan, less prudent than they,
soon became intoxicated on these drinks, and the audience had to be ended without any result
being arrived at. Rubruquis remained several days at Mangu-Khan's court; he found there a great
number of German and French prisoners, mostly employed in making different kinds of arms, or
in working the mines of Bocol. The prisoners were well treated by the Tartars, and did not
complain of their lot. After several interviews with the great khan, Rubruquis gained permission
to leave, and he returned to Karakorum.

Near this town stood a magnificent palace, belonging to the khan; it was like a large church
with nave and double aisles, here the sovereign sits at the northern end on a raised platform,
the gentlemen being seated on his right, and the ladies on his left hand. It is at this palace
that twice every year splendid fêtes are given, when all the nobles of the country are assembled
round their sovereign.

While at Karakorum, Rubruquis collected many interesting documents relating to the Chinese,
their customs, literature, &c.; then leaving the capital of the Mongols, he returned by the
same route as he had come, as far as Astrakhan; but there he branched to the south and went
to Syria with a Turkish escort, which was rendered necessary by the presence of tribes bent
on pillage. He visited Derbend, and went thence by Nakshivan, Erzeroum, Sivas, Cæsarea, and
Iconium, to the port of Kertch, whence he embarked for his own country. His route was much
the same as that of Carpini, but his narrative is less interesting, and the Belgian does not
seem to have been gifted with the spirit of observation which characterized the Italian monk.

With Carpini and Rubruquis closes the list of celebrated travellers of the thirteenth century,
but we have the brilliant career of Marco Polo now before us, whose travels extended over part
of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.

The Genoese and Venetian merchants could not fail to be much interested in the explorations
of the brave travellers in Central Asia, India, and China, for they saw that these countries
would give them new openings for disposing of their merchandise, and also the great benefit
to be derived by the West from being supplied with the productions of the East. The interests
of commerce stimulated fresh explorations, and it was this motive that actuated two noble Venetians
to leave their homes, and brave all the fatigue and danger of a perilous journey.

These two Venetians belonged to the family of Polo, which had come originally from Dalmatia,
and, owing to successful trading, had become so opulent as to be reckoned among the patrician
families of Venice. In 1260 the two brothers, Nicholas and Matteo, who had lived for some years
in Constantinople, where they had established a branch house, went to the Crimea, with a considerable
stock of precious stones, where their eldest brother, Andrea Polo, had his place of business.
Thence, taking a north-easterly direction and crossing the country of the Comans, they reached
the camp of Barkaï-Khan on the Volga. This Mongol prince received the two merchants very kindly,
and bought all the jewels they offered him at double their value.

Nicolo and Matteo remained a year in the Mongolian camp, but a war breaking out at this time
between Barkaï, and Houlagou, the conqueror of Persia, the two brothers, not wishing to be
in the midst of a country where war was being waged, went to Bokhara, and there they remained
three years. But when Barkaï was vanquished and his capital taken, the partisans of Houlagou
induced the two Venetians to follow them to the residence of the grand Khan of Tartary, who
was sure to give them a hearty welcome. This Kublaï-Khan, the fourth son of Gengis-Khan, was
Emperor of China, and was then at his summer-palace in Mongolia, on the frontier of the Chinese
empire.

The Venetian merchants set out, and were a whole year crossing the immense extent of country
lying between Bokhara and the northern limits of China. Kublaï-Khan was much pleased to receive
these strangers from the distant West. He fêted them, and asked, with much eagerness, for any
information that they could give him of what was happening in Europe, requiring details of
the government of the various kings and emperors, and their methods of making war; and he then
conversed at some length about the Pope and the state of the Latin Church. Matteo and Nicolo
fortunately spoke the Tartar language fluently, so they could freely answer all the emperor's
questions.

It had occurred to Kublaï-Khan to send messengers to the Pope; and he seized the opportunity
to beg the two brothers to act as his ambassadors to his Holiness. The merchants thankfully
accepted his proposal, for they foresaw that this new character would be very advantageous
to them. The emperor had some charters drawn up in the Turkish language, asking the Pope to
send a hundred learned men to convert his people to Christianity; then he appointed one of
his barons named Cogatal to accompany them, and he charged them to bring him some oil from
the sacred lamp, which is perpetually burning before the tomb of Christ at Jerusalem.

The two brothers took leave of the khan, having been furnished with passports by him, which
put both men and horses at their disposal throughout the empire, and in 1266 they set out on
their journey. Soon the baron Cogatal fell ill, and the Venetians were obliged to leave him
and continue their journey; but in spite of all the aid that had been given to them, they were
three years in reaching the port of Laïas, in Armenia, now known by the name of Issus. Leaving
this port, they arrived at Acre in 1269, where they heard of the death of Pope Clement IV.,
to whom they were sent, but the legate Theobald lived in Acre and received the Venetians; learning
what was the object of their mission he begged them to wait for the election of the new Pope.

The brothers had been absent from their country for fifteen years, so they resolved to return
to Venice, and at Negropont they embarked on board a vessel that was going direct to their
native town.

On landing there, Nicolo was met by news of the death of his wife, and of the birth of his
son, who had been born shortly after his departure in 1254; this son was the celebrated Marco
Polo. The two brothers waited at Venice for the election of the Pope, but at the end of two
years, as it had not taken place, they thought they could no longer defer their return to the
Emperor of the Mongols; accordingly they started for Acre, taking Marco Polo with them, who
could not then have been more than seventeen. At Acre they had an interview with the legate
Theobald, who authorized them to go to Jerusalem and there to procure some of the sacred oil.
This mission accomplished, the Venetians returned to Acre and asked the legate to give them
letters to Kublaï-Khan, mentioning the death of Pope Clement IV.; he complied with their request,
and they returned to Laïas or Issus. There, to their great joy, they learnt that the legate
Theobald had just been made Pope with the title of Gregory X., on the 1st of September, 1271.
The newly-elected Pope sent at once for the Venetian envoys, and the King of Armenia placed
a galley at their disposal to expedite their return to Acre. The Pope received them with much
affection, and gave them letters to the Emperor of China; he added two preaching friars, Nicholas
of Vicenza and William of Tripoli, to their party, and gave them his blessing on their departure.
They went back to Laïas, but had scarcely arrived before they were made prisoners by the soldiers
of the Mameluke Sultan Bibars, who was then ravaging Armenia. The two preaching friars were
so discouraged at this outset of the expedition that they gave up all idea of going to China,
and left the two Venetians and Marco Polo to prosecute the journey together as best they could.

Here begins what may properly be called Marco Polo's travels. It is a question if he really
visited all the places that he describes, and it seems probable that he did not; in fact, in
the narrative written at his dictation by Rusticien of Pisa it is stated "Marco-Polo, a wise
and noble citizen of Venice, saw nearly all herein described with his own eyes, and what he
did not see he learnt from the lips of truthful and credible witnesses;" but we must add that
the greater part of the kingdoms and towns spoken of by Marco Polo he certainly did visit.
We will follow the route he describes, simply pointing out what the traveller learnt by hearsay,
during the important missions with which he was charged by Kublaï-Khan. During this second
journey the travellers did not follow exactly the same road as on the first occasion of their
visit to the Emperor of China. They had lengthened their route by passing to the north of the
celestial mountains, but now they turned to the south of them, and though this route was shorter
than the other, they were three years and a half in accomplishing their journey, being much
impeded by the rains and the difficulty of crossing the great rivers. Their course may be easily
followed with the help of a map of Asia, as we have substituted the modern names in place of
the ancient ones used by Marco Polo in his narrative.

II. MARCO POLO.

Marco Polo left the town of Issus; he describes Armenia Minor as a very unhealthy place, the
inhabitants of which, though once valiant, are now cowardly and wretched, their only talent
seeming to lie in their capacity for drinking to excess. From Armenia Minor he went to Turcomania,
whose inhabitants, though somewhat of savages, are clever in cultivating pastures and breeding
horses and mules; and the townspeople excel in the manufacture of carpets and silk. Armenia
Proper, that Marco Polo next visited, affords a good camping-ground to the Tartar armies during
the summer. There the traveller saw Mount Ararat, where Noah's Ark rested after the Deluge.
He noticed that the lands bordering on the Caspian Sea afford large supplies of naphtha, which
forms an important item in the trade of that neighbourhood.

When he left Armenia he took a north-easterly course towards Georgia, a kingdom lying on the
south side of the Caucasus, whose ancient kings, says the legend, "were born with an eagle
traced on their right shoulders." The Georgians, he describes as good archers and men of war,
and also as clever in working in gold and manufacturing silk. Here is a celebrated defile,
four leagues in length, which lies between the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea, that the Turks
call the Iron Door, and Europeans the Pass of Derbend, and here too is the miraculous lake,
where fish are said to exist only during Lent. Hence the travellers descended towards the kingdom
of Mosul, and arrived at the town of the same name on the right bank of the Tigris, thence
going to Baghdad, the residence of the Caliph of all the Saracens. Marco Polo gives an account
of the taking of Baghdad by the Tartars in 1255; mentioning a wonderful story in support of
the Christian idea of Faith, "that can remove mountains;" he points out the route from this
town to the Persian Gulf, which may be reached in eighteen days by the river, passing Bussorah,
the country of dates.

From this point to Tauris, a Persian town in the province of Adzer-baidjan, Marco Polo's route
seems to be doubtful. He takes up his narrative at Tauris, which he describes as a large flourishing
town built in the midst of beautiful gardens and carrying on a great traffic in precious stones
and other valuable merchandise, but its Saracen inhabitants are disloyal and treacherous. Here
he seems to divide Persia geographically into eight provinces. The natives of Persia, according
to him, are formidable enemies to the merchants, who are obliged to travel armed with bows
and arrows. The principal trade of the country seems to be in horses and asses, which are sent
to Kis or Ormuz and thence to India. The natural productions of the country are wheat, barley,
millet, and grapes, which grow in abundance.

Marco Polo went next to Yezd, the most easterly town of Persia Proper; on leaving it, after
a ride of seven days through magnificent forests abounding in game, he came to the province
of Kirman. Here the mines yield large quantities of turquoise, as well as iron and antimony;
the manufacture of arms and harness as well as embroidery and the training of falcons for hunting
occupy a great number of the inhabitants. On leaving Kirman Marco Polo and his two companions
set out on a nine days' journey across a rich and populous country to the town of Comadi, which
is supposed to be the Memaun of the present day, and was even then sinking into decay. The
country was superb; on all sides were to be seen fine fat sheep, great oxen, white as snow,
with short strong horns, and thousands of domestic fowls and other birds; also there were magnificent
date, orange, and pistachio trees.

After travelling for five days they entered the beautiful and well watered plain of Cormos
or Ormuz, and after two days' further march they reached the shores of the Persian Gulf and
the town of Ormuz, which forms the sea-port of the kingdom of Kirman. This country they found
very warm und unhealthy, but rich in date and spice trees, in grain, precious stones, silk
and golden stuffs, and elephants' tusks, wine made from the date and other merchandise being
brought into the town ready for shipment on board ships with but one mast, which came in numbers
to the port; but many were lost on the voyage to India, as they were only built with wooden
pegs, not iron nails, to fasten them together.

From Ormuz, Marco Polo, going up again towards the north-east, visited Kirman; then he ventured
by dangerous roads across a sandy desert, where there was only brackish water to be found,
the desert across which, 1500 years before, Alexander had led his army to meet Nearchus. Seven
days afterwards he entered the town of Khabis. On leaving this town he crossed for eight days
the great plains to Tonokan, the capital of the province of Kumis, probably Damaghan. At this
point of his narrative Marco Polo gives an account of the "Old Man of the Mountain," the chief
of the Mahometan sect called the Hashishins, who were noted for their religious fanaticism
and terrible cruelty. He next visited the Khorassan town of Cheburgan, a city celebrated for
its sweet melons, and then the noble city of Balkh, situated near the source of the Oxus. Next
he crossed a country infested by lions to Taikan, a great salt-market frequented by a large
number of merchants, and to Scasem; this town seems to be the Kashme spoken of by Marsden,
the Kishin or Krishin of Hiouen-Tsang, which Sir Henry Rawlinson has identified with the hill
of Kharesm of Zend-Avesta, that some commentators think must be the modern Koundouz. In this
part of the country he says porcupines abound, and when they are hunted they curl themselves
up, darting out the prickles on their sides and backs at the dogs that are hunting them. We
now know how much faith to put in this pretended power of defence said to be possessed by the
porcupine.

Marco Polo now entered the rocky mountainous kingdom of the Balkhs, whose kings claim descent
from Alexander the Great; a cold country, producing good fast horses, excellent falcons, and
all kinds of game. Here, too, are prolific ruby-mines worked by the king and which yield large
quantities, but they are so strictly enclosed that no one on pain of death may set foot on
the Sighinan mountain containing the mines. In other places silver is found, and many precious
stones, of which he says "they make the finest azure in the world," meaning lapis-lazuli; his
stay in this part of the country must have been a long one to have enabled him to observe so
many of its characteristics. Ten days' journey from hence he entered a province which must
be the Peshawur of the present day, whose dark-skinned inhabitants were idolaters; then after
seven days' further march, about mid-day he came to the kingdom of Cashmere, where the temperature
is cool, and towns and villages are very numerous. Had Marco Polo continued his route in the
same direction he would soon have reached the territory of India, but instead of that he took
a northerly course, and in twelve days was in Vaccan, a land watered by the Upper Oxus, which
runs through splendid pastures, where feed immense flocks of wild sheep, called mufflons. Thence
he went through a mountainous country, lying between the Altai and Himalayan ranges to Kashgar.
Here Marco Polo's route is the same as that of his uncle and his father during their first
voyage, when from Bokhara they were taken to the residence of the great khan. From Kashgar,
Marco Polo diverged a little to the west, to Samarcand, a large town inhabited by Saracens
and Christians, then to Yarkand, a city frequented by caravans trading between India and Northern
Asia; passing by Khotan, the capital of the province of that name, and by Pein, a town whose
situation is uncertain, but in a part of the country where chalcedony and jasper abound. He
came to the kingdom of Kharachar, which extends along the borders of the desert of Jobe; then
after five days' further travelling over sandy plains, where there was no water fit to drink,
he rested for eight days in the city of Lob, a place now in ruins, while he prepared to cross
the desert lying to the east, "so great a desert," he says, "that it would require a year to
traverse its whole length, a haunted wilderness, where drums and other instruments are heard,
though invisible."

After spending a year crossing this desert, Marco Polo reached Tcha-tcheou, in the province
of Tangaut, a town built on the western limits of the Chinese empire. There are but few merchants
here, the greater part of the population being agricultural. The custom that seems to have
struck him the most in the province of Tangaut, was that of burning their dead only on a day
fixed by the astrologers; "all the time that the dead remain in their houses, the relations
stay there with them, preparing a place at each meal as well as providing both food and drink
for the corpse, as though it were still alive."

Marco Polo and his companions made an excursion to the north-east, to the city of Amil, going
on as far as Ginchintalas, a town inhabited by idolaters, Mahometans, and Nestorian Christians,
whose situation is disputed. From this town Marco Polo returned to Tcha-tcheou, and went eastward
across Tangaut, by the town of So-ceu, over a tract of country particularly favourable to the
cultivation of rhubarb, and by Kanpiceon, the Khan-tcheou of the Chinese, then the capital
of the province of Tangaut, an important town, whose numerous chiefs are idolaters and polygamists.
The three Venetians remained a year in this large city; it is easy to understand, from their
long halts and deviations, why they required three years for their journey across Central Asia.

They left Khan-tcheou, and after riding for twelve days they reached the borders of a sandy
desert, and entered the city of Etzina. This was another détour, as it lay directly north of
their route, but they wished to visit Kara-Korum, the celebrated capital of Tartary, where
Rubruquis had been in 1254. Marco Polo was certainly an explorer by nature; fatigue was nothing
to him if he had any geographical studies to complete, which is proved by his spending forty
days crossing an uninhabited desert without vegetation, in order to reach the Tartar town.

When he arrived there, he found a city measuring three miles in circumference, which had been
for a long time the capital of the Empire, before it was conquered by Gengis-Khan, the grandfather
of the reigning emperor. Here Marco Polo makes an historical digression, in which he gives
an account of the wars of the Tartar chiefs against the famous Prester John who held all this
part of the country under his dominion.

Marco Polo after returning to Khan-tcheou left it again, marching five days towards the east,
and arriving at the town of Erginul. Thence he went a little to the south to visit Sining-foo,
across a tract of country where grazed great wild oxen and the valuable species of goat which
is called the "musk-bearer." Returning to Erginul, they went eastward to Cialis, where there
is the best manufactory of cloth made from camels' hair in the world, to Tenduc, a town in
the province of the same name, where a descendant of Prester John reigned, but who had given
in his submission to the great khan; this was a busy flourishing town: from hence the travellers
went to Sinda-tchou, and on beyond the great wall of China as far as Ciagannor, which must
be Tzin-balgassa, a pretty town where the emperor lives when he wishes to hawk; for cranes,
storks, pheasants, and partridges abound in this neighbourhood.

At last Marco Polo, his father, and his uncle, reached Ciandu or Tchan-tchou of the present
day, called elsewhere in this narrative Clemen-foo. Here Kublaï-Khan received the papal envoys,
for he was occupying his summer palace beyond the great wall, north of Pekin, which was then
the capital of the empire. The traveller does not tell us what reception he met with, but he
describes most carefully the palace, the grandeur of the building of stone and marble, standing
in the middle of a park surrounded by walls, enclosing menageries and fountains. Also a building
made of reeds, so closely interlaced as to be impenetrable to water; it was a sort of movable
kiosk that the great khan inhabited during the fine months of June, July, and August. The weather
during the emperor's sojourn in this summer palace could not but be beautiful, for, according
to Marco Polo, the astrologers who were attached to the khan's court were charged to scatter
all rain and fog by their sorcery, and the travellers seem to believe in the power of these
magicians. "These astrologers," he says, "belong to two races, both idolaters; they are learned
in all magic and enchantments, above any other men, and what they do is done by the aid of
the devil, but they make others believe that they owe their power to the help of God, and their
own holiness. These people have the following strange custom: when a man has been condemned
and put to death, they take the body, cook, and eat it; but in the case of a natural death
they do not eat the body. And you must know that these people of whom I am speaking, who know
so many kinds of enchantments, work the wonder I am about to relate. When the great khan is
seated at dinner in the principal dining-hall, the table of which is eight cubits in length,
and the cups are on the floor ten paces from the table, filled with wine, milk, and other good
beverages, these clever magicians, by their arts, make these cups rise by themselves, and without
any one touching them, they are placed before the great khan. This has been done before an
immense number of people, and is the exact truth; and those skilled in necromancy will tell
you that it is quite possible to do this."

Marco Polo next gives a history of Kublaï, whom he considers to possess more lands and treasures
than any man since our first father, Adam. He tells how the great khan ascended the throne
in the year 1256, being then eighty-five; he was a man of middle height, rather stout, but
of a fine figure, with a good complexion and black eyes. He was a good commander in war, and
his talents were put to the proof when his uncle Naïan, having rebelled against him, wished
to dispute his power at the head of 400,000 cavalry. Kublaï-Khan collected (in secret) a force
of 300,000 horsemen, and 100,000 foot-soldiers, and marched against his uncle. The battle was
a most terrible one, so many men being killed, but the khan was victorious, and Naïan, as a
prince of the blood royal, was condemned to be sewn up tightly in a carpet, and died in great
suffering. After his victory the khan made a triumphal entry into Cathay, capital of Cambaluc,
or, as it is now called, Pekin. When Marco Polo arrived at this city he made a long stay there,
remaining until the emperor needed his services to undertake various missions into the interior
of China. The emperor had a splendid palace at Cambaluc, and the traveller gives so graphic
an account of the riches and magnificence of the Mongol sovereigns, that we give it word for
word. "The palace is surrounded by a great wall, a mile long each way, four miles in length
altogether, very thick, ten feet in height, all white and battlemented. At each corner of this
wall is a palace beautiful and rich, in which all the trappings of war belonging to the great
khan are kept; his bows, quivers, the saddles and bridles of the horses, the bow-strings, in
fact everything that would be wanted in time of war; in the midst of each square is another
building, like those at the corner, so that there are eight in all, and each building contains
one particular kind of harness or trapping. In the wall on the south side are five doors, the
middle or large door only being opened when the emperor wishes to go in or out; near this great
gate on either side is a smaller one through which other people may pass, and two others for
the same purpose. Inside this wall is another, having also eight buildings to be used in the
same manner."

Thus we see that all these buildings constituted the emperor's armoury and harness-store; we
shall not be surprised that there was so much harness to be kept when we know that the emperor
possessed a race of horses white as snow, and among them ten thousand mares, whose milk was
reserved for the sole use of princes of the blood royal.

Marco Polo continues his narrative thus:--"The inner wall has five gates on the south side,
answering to those in the outer wall, but on the other sides the walls have only one gate each.
In the centre of the enclosure made by these walls, stands the palace, the largest in the world.
It has no second story, but the ground-floor is raised about eight feet above the ground. The
roof is very high, the walls of the rooms are covered with gold and silver, and on this gold
and silver are paintings of dragons, birds, horses, and other animals, so that nothing can
be seen but gilding and pictures. The dining-hall is large enough to hold 6000 men, and the
number of other rooms is marvellous, and all is so well arranged that it could not be improved.
The ceilings are painted vermillion, green, blue, yellow, and all kinds of colours, varnished
so as to shine like crystal, and the roof is so well built that it will last for many years.
Between the two walls the land is laid out in fields with fine trees in them, containing different
species of animals, the musk-ox, white deer, roe-buck, fallow-deer, and other animals, who
fill the space between the walls, except the roads reserved for human beings. On the north-western
side is a great lake, full of fishes of divers kinds, for the great khan has had several species
placed there, and each time that he desires it to be done, he has his will in it. A river rises
in this lake and flows out from the grounds of the palace, but no fish escape in it, there
being iron and brass nets to prevent their doing so. On the northern side, near an arched doorway,
the emperor has had a mound made, a hundred feet in height and more than a mile in circumference;
it is covered with evergreen trees, and the emperor, being very fond of horticulture, whenever
he hears of a fine tree, sends for it and has it brought by his elephants, with the roots and
surrounding soil, the size of the tree being no impediment, and thus he has the finest collection
of trees in the world. The hill is called 'green hill,' from its being covered with evergreen
trees and green turf, and on the top of the hill is a house. This hill is altogether so beautiful
that it is the admiration of every one."

After Marco Polo has concluded his description of this palace, he gives one of that of the
emperor's son and heir; then he speaks of the town of Cambaluc, the old town which is separated
from the modern town of Taidu by a canal, the same which divides the Chinese and Tartar quarters
of Pekin. The traveller gives many particulars of the emperor's habits, and among other things,
he says that Kublaï-Khan has a body-guard of 2000 horse-soldiers; but he adds, "it is not fear
that causes him to keep this guard." His meals are real ceremonies, and etiquette is most rigidly
enforced. His table is raised above the others, and he always sits on the north side with his
principal wife on his right, and lower down his sons, nephews, and relations; he is waited
upon by noble barons, who are careful to envelope their mouths and noses in fine cloth of gold,
"so that their breath and their odour may not contaminate the food or drink of their lord."
When the emperor is about to drink, a band of music plays, and when he takes the cup in his
hand, all the barons and every one present, fall on their knees.

The principal fêtes given by the grand khan were on the anniversary of his birth, and on the
first day of the year. At the first, 12,000 barons were accustomed to assemble round the throne,
and to them were presented annually 150,000 garments made of gold and silk and ornamented with
pearls, whilst the subjects, idolaters as well as Christians, offered up public prayers. At
the second of these fêtes, on the first day of the year, the whole population, men and women
alike, appeared dressed in white, following the tradition that white brings good fortune, and
every one brought gifts to the king of great value. One hundred thousand richly-caparisoned
horses, five thousand elephants covered with handsome cloths and carrying the imperial plate,
as well as a large number of camels, passed in procession before the emperor.

During the three winter months of December, January, and February, when the khan is living
in his winter palace, all the nobles within a radius of sixty days' march are obliged to supply
him with boars, stags, fallow-deer, roes, and bears. Besides, Kublaï is a great huntsman himself,
and his hunting-train is superbly mounted and kept up. He has leopards, lynxes and fine lions
trained to hunt for wild animals, eagles strong enough to chase wolves, foxes, fallow and roe-deer,
and, as Marco Polo says, "often to take them too," and his dogs may be counted by thousands.
It is about March when the emperor begins his principal hunting in the direction of the sea,
and he is accompanied by no less than 10,000 falconers, 500 gerfalcons, and many goshawks,
peregrine, and sacred falcons. During the hunting excursion, a portable palace, covered outside
with lions' skins and inside with cloth of gold, and carried on four elephants harnessed together,
accompanies the emperor everywhere, who seems to enjoy all this oriental pomp and display.
He goes as far as the camp of Chachiri-Mongou, which is situated on a stream, a tributary of
the river Amoor, and the tent is set up, which is large enough to hold ten thousand nobles.
This is his reception-saloon where he gives audiences; and when he wishes to sleep he goes
into a tent which is hung all round with ermine and sable furs of almost priceless value. The
emperor lives thus till about Easter, hunting cranes, swans, hares, stags, roebucks, &c., and
then returns to his capital, Cambaluc.

Marco Polo now completes his description of this fine city and enumerates the twelve quarters
it contains, in many of which the rich merchants have their palatial houses, for commerce flourishes
in this town, and more valuable merchandise is brought to it than to any other in the world.
It is the depôt and market for the richest productions of India, such as pearls and precious
stones, and merchants come from long distances round to purchase them. The khan has established
a mint here for the benefit of trade, and it is an inexhaustible source of revenue to him.
The bank-notes, sealed with the emperor's seal, are made of a kind of card-board manufactured
from the bark of the mulberry-tree. The card-board thus prepared is cut into various thicknesses
according to the value of the money it is supposed to represent. The currency of this money
is enforced, none daring to refuse it "on pain of death;" the emperor using it in all his payments,
and enforcing its circulation throughout his dominions. Besides this, several times in the
year the possessors of precious stones, pearls, gold, or silver, are obliged to bring their
treasures to the mint and receive in exchange for them these pieces of card-board, so that,
in fact, the emperor becomes the possessor of all the riches in his empire.

According to Marco Polo the system of the Imperial Government was wonderfully centralized.
"The kingdom is divided into thirty-four provinces, and is governed by twelve of the greatest
barons living in Cambaluc; in the same palace also reside the intendants and secretaries, who
conduct the business of each province. From this central city a great number of roads diverge
to the various parts of the kingdom, and on these roads are now post-houses stationed at intervals
of twenty-two miles, where well-mounted messengers are always ready to carry the emperor's
messages. Besides this, at every three miles on the road there is a little hamlet of about
fourteen houses where the couriers live, who carry messages on foot; these men wear a belt
round their waists and have a girdle with bells attached to it, that are heard at a long distance;
they start at a gallop, quickly accomplishing the three miles and giving the message to the
courier who is waiting for it at the next hamlet; thus the emperor receives news from places
at long distances from the capital in a comparatively short time." This mode of communication
also involved but small expense to Kublaï-Khan, as the only remuneration he gave these couriers
was their exemption from taxation, and as to the horses, they were furnished gratuitously by
the provinces.

But if the emperor used his power in this manner to lay heavy burdens upon his subjects, he
exerted himself actively for their good, and was always ready to help them; for instance, when
their crops were damaged by hail-storms, he not only remitted all taxes, but gave them corn
from his own stores, and when there was any great mortality among the flocks and herds in any
particular province, he always replaced them at his own expense. He was careful to have a large
quantity of wheat, barley, millet, and rice, stored up in years of abundant harvest, so as
to keep the price of grain at a uniform rate when the harvest failed. He was particularly careful
of the poor who lived in Cambaluc. "He had a list made of all the poorest houses in the town,
where they were usually short of food, and supplied them liberally with wheat and other grain
according to the size of their families, and bread was never refused to any applying at the
palace for it; it is computed that at least 30,000 persons avail themselves of this daily throughout
the year. His kindness to his poor subjects makes them almost worship him." The whole affairs
of the empire are administered with great care, the roads well kept up and planted with fine
trees, so that from a distance their direction can easily be traced. There is no want of wood,
and in Cathay they work a number of coal-pits which supply abundance of coal.

Marco Polo remained a long time at Cambaluc, and his intelligence, spirit, and readiness in
adapting himself, made him a great favourite with the emperor. He was intrusted with various
missions, not only in China, but also to places on the coast of India, Ceylon, the Coromandel
and Malabar coasts, and a part of Cochin-China near Cambogia, and between the years 1277 and
1280 he was made governor of Yang-tcheou, and of twenty-seven other towns which were joined
with it under the same government. Thanks to the missions on which he was sent, he travelled
over an immense extent of country, and gained a great amount of ethnological and geographical
knowledge. We can now follow him map in hand through some of these journeys, which were of
the greatest service to science.

III. MARCO POLO.

When Marco Polo had been at Cambaluc some time, he was sent on a mission that kept him absent
from the capital for four months. Ten miles southwards from Cambaluc, he crossed the fine river
Pe-ho-nor (which he calls the Pulisanghi), by a stone bridge of twenty-four arches, and 300
feet in length, which was then without parallel in the world. Thirty miles further on he came
to the town of Tso-cheu, where a large trade in sandal-wood is carried on; at ten days' journey
from hence he came to the modern town of Tai-yen-fou, which was once the seat of an independent
government. All the province of Shan-si seemed rich in vines and mulberry-trees; the principal
industry in the towns was the making of armour for the emperor's use.

Seven days' journey further on they came to the beautiful commercial city of Pianfou, now called
Pin-yang-foo, where the manufacture of silk was carried on. He soon afterwards came to the
banks of the Yellow River, which he calls Caramoran or Black River, probably on account of
its waters being darkened by the aquatic plants growing in them; at two days' journey from
hence he came to the town of Cacianfu, whose position is not now clearly defined. He found
nothing remarkable in this town, and leaving it he rode across a beautiful country, covered
with towns, country-houses, and gardens, and abounding in game.

In eight days he reached the fine city of Quangianfoo, the ancient capital of the Tâng dynasty,
now called Signanfoo, and the capital of Shensi; here reigned Prince Mangalai, the emperor's
son, an upright and amiable prince, much loved by his people. He lived in a magnificent palace
outside the town, built in the midst of a park, of which the battlemented wall cannot have
been less than five miles in circumference.

From Signanfoo, the traveller went towards Thibet, across the modern province of Szu-tchouan,
a mountainous country intersected by deep valleys, where lions, bears, lynxes, &c., abounded,
and after twenty-eight days' march he found himself on the borders of the great plain of Acmelic-mangi.
This is a fertile country and produces all kinds of vegetation; ginger is especially cultivated;
there is sufficient to supply all the province of Cathay, and so fertile is the soil that according
to a French traveller, M. E. Simon, an acre is now worth 15,000 francs, or three francs the
metre. In the thirteenth century this plain was covered with towns and country-houses, and
the inhabitants lived upon the fruits of the ground, and the produce of their flocks and herds,
while the large quantity of game furnished hunters with abundant occupation.

Marco Polo next visited the town of Sindafou (now Tching-too-foo), the capital of the province
of Se-tchu-an, whose population at the present day exceeds 1,500,000 souls. Sindafu, measuring
at that time twenty miles round, was divided into three parts, each surrounded with its own
wall, and each part had a king of its own before Kublaï-Khan took possession of the town. The
great river Kiang ran through the town: it contained large quantities of fish, and from its
size resembled a sea more than a river; its waters were covered by a vast number of vessels.
Five days after leaving this busy, thriving town Marco Polo reached the province of Thibet,
which he says "is very desolate, for it has been destroyed by the war."

Thibet abounds in lions, bears, and other savage animals, from which the travellers would have
much difficulty in defending themselves had it not been for the quantity of large thick canes
that grow there, which are probably bamboos: he says, "the merchants and travellers passing
through these countries at night collect a quantity of these canes and make a large fire of
them, for when they are burning they make such a noise and crackle so much, that the lions,
bears, and other wild beasts take flight to a distance, and would not approach these fires
on any account; thus both men, horses, and camels are safe. In another way, too, protection
is afforded by throwing a number of these canes on a wood fire, and when they become heated
and split, and the sap hisses, the sound is heard at least ten miles off. When any one is not
accustomed to this noise, it is so terrifying that even the horses will break away from their
cords and tethers; so their owners often bandage their eyes and tie their feet together to
prevent their running away." This method of burning canes is still used in countries where
the bamboo grows, and indeed the noise may be compared to the loudest explosion of fire-works.

According to Marco Polo, Thibet is a very large province, having its own language; and its
inhabitants, who are idolaters, are a race of bold thieves. A large river, the Khin-cha-kiang,
flows over auriferous sands through the province; a quantity of coral is found in it which
is much used for idols, and for the adornment of the women. Thibet was at this time under the
dominion of the great khan.

The traveller took a westerly direction when he left Sindafou, and crossing the kingdom of
Gaindu he must have come to Li-kiang-foo, the capital of the country that is now called Tsi-mong.
In this province he visited a beautiful lake which produces pearl-oysters; the fishing is the
emperor's property; he also found great quantities of cinnamon, ginger, cloves, and other spices
under cultivation.

After leaving the province of Gaindu, and crossing a large river, probably the Irrawaddy, Marco
Polo took a south-easterly course to the province of Carajan, which probably forms the north-western
part of Yunnan. According to his account all the inhabitants of this province, who are mostly
great riders, live on the raw flesh of fowls, sheep, buffaloes, and oxen; the rich seasoning
their raw meat with garlic sauce and good spices. This country is infested with great adders,
and serpents, "hideous to look upon." These reptiles, probably alligators, were ten feet long,
had two legs armed with claws, and with their large heads and great jaws could at one gulp
swallow a man.

Five days' journey west of Carajan, Marco Polo took a new route to the south, and entered the
province of Zardandan, whose capital Nocian, is the modern town of Yung-chang. All the inhabitants
of the city had teeth of gold; that is to say, they covered their teeth with little plates
of gold which they removed before eating. The men of this province employed themselves only
in hunting, catching birds, and making war, the hard work all devolving upon the women and
slaves. These Zardanians have neither idols nor churches, but they each worship their ancestor,
the patriarch of the family. Their tradesmen carry their goods about on barrows like the bakers
in France. They have no doctors, but only enchanters, who jump, dance, and play musical instruments
around the invalid's bed till he either dies or recovers.

Leaving these people with gilded teeth, Marco Polo took the great road which conveys all the
traffic between India and Indo-China, and passed by Bhamo, where a market is held three times
a week, which attracts merchants from the most distant countries. After riding for fifteen
days through forests filled with elephants, unicorns, and other wild animals, he came to the
great city of Mien; that is to say, to that part of Upper Burmah, of which the present capital,
of recent erection, is called Amarapura. This city of Mien, which may be, perhaps, the old
town of Ava now in ruins, or the old town of Paghan situated on the Irrawaddy, possessed a
veritable architectural marvel, in two towers, one built of fine stone, and entirely covered
with a coating of gold about an inch in thickness, and the other, also of stone, coated with
silver, both intended to serve as a tomb for the king of Mien, before his kingdom fell under
the dominion of the khan. After visiting this province, the traveller went to Bangala, the
Bengal of the present day, which at this time, 1290, did not belong to Kublaï-Khan. The emperor's
forces were then engaged in trying to conquer this fertile country, rich in cotton plants,
in sugar-canes, &c., and whose magnificent oxen were like elephants in height. From thence,
the traveller ventured as far as the city of Cancigu, in the province of the same name, probably
the modern town of Kassaye. The natives here tattooed their bodies, and with needles drew pictures
of lions, dragons, and birds on their faces, necks, bellies, hands, legs, and bodies, and he
who had the greatest number of these pictures they considered the most beautiful of human beings.

Cancigu was the most southerly point visited by Marco Polo, during this journey. Leaving this
city, he went towards the north-east, and by the country of Amu, Anam, and Tonkin, he reached
Toloman, now called Tai-ping, after fifteen days' march. There he found that fine race of men,
of dark colour, who have crowned their mountains with strong castles, and whose ordinary food
is the flesh of animals, milk, rice, and spices.

On leaving Toloman, he followed the course of a river for twelve days, and found numerous towns
on its banks. Here, as M. Charton truly observes, the traveller is leaving the country known
as India beyond the Ganges, and returning towards China. In fact, Marco Polo after leaving
Toloman visited the province of Guigui with its capital of the same name, and what struck him
most in this country, (and we cannot but think that the bold explorer was also a keen hunter)
was the great number of lions that were to be seen about its mountains and plains. Only, commentators
are of opinion that the lions he speaks of must have been tigers, for no lions are found in
China, but we will give his own words: he says, "There are so many lions in this country, that
it is not safe to sleep out of doors for fear of being devoured. And when you are on the river
and stop for the night, you must be careful to anchor far from land, for otherwise the lions
come to the vessel, seize upon a man, and devour him. The inhabitants of this part of the country
are well aware of this, and so take measures to guard against it. These lions are very large
and very dangerous, but there are dogs in this country brave enough to attack these lions;
it requires two dogs and a man to overcome each lion."

From this province Marco Polo returned to Sindifu, the capital of the province of Se-chuen,
whence he had started on his excursion into Thibet; and retracing the route by which he had
set out, he returned to Kublaï-Khan, after having brought his mission to Indo-China to a satisfactory
termination. It was probably at this time that the traveller was first entrusted by the emperor
with another mission to the south-east of China. M. Pauthier, in his fine work upon the Venetian
traveller, speaks of this south-easterly part of China as "the richest and most flourishing
quarter of this vast empire and that also about which, since the 16th century, Europeans have
had the most information."

As we return to the route that M. Pauthier has traced on his map, we find that Marco Polo went
southwards to Ciangli, probably the town of Ti-choo, and at six days' journey from thence he
came to Condinfoo, the present city of Tsi-nan, the capital of the province of Shan-tung, the
birthplace of Confucius. It was at that time a fine town and much frequented by silk-merchants,
and its beautiful gardens produced abundance of excellent fruit. Three days' march from hence,
the traveller came to the town of Lin-tsing, standing at the mouth of the Yu-ho canal, the
principal rendezvous for the innumerable boats that carry so much merchandise to the provinces
of Mangi and Cathay. Eight days afterwards he passed by Ligui, which seems to correspond to
the modern town of Lin-tsin, and the town of Piceu, the first city in the province of Tchang-su;
then by the town of Cingui, he arrived at Caramoran, the Yellow River, which he had crossed
higher up when he was on his way to Indo-China; here Marco Polo was not more than a league
from the mouth of this great river. After crossing it he was in the province of Mangi, a territory
included in the Empire of the Soongs.

Before this province of Mangi belonged to Kublaï-Khan it was governed by a very pacific king,
who shunned war, and was very merciful to all his subjects. Marco Polo describes him so well
that we will quote his own words. "This last emperor of the Soong dynasty was most generous,
and I will cite but two noble traits to show this; every year he had nearly 20,000 infants
brought up at the royal charge, for it was the custom in these provinces, when a poor woman
could not bring up a child herself, to cast it away as soon as it was born, to die. The king
had all these children taken care of, and a record kept of the sign and the planet under which
each was born, and then they were sent to different places to be brought up, for there are
a quantity of nurses. When a rich man had no sons, he came to the king and asked of him some
of his wards, who were immediately given to him. As the children grew up they intermarried,
and the king gave them sufficient incomes to live upon. When he went through his dominions
and saw a small house among several much larger ones, he inquired why this house was smaller
than those near it, and if he found it was on account of the poverty of the owner, he immediately
had it made as large as the others at his own expense. He was always waited upon by a thousand
pages and a thousand girls. He kept up such rigorous discipline throughout his kingdom that
there was never any crime; at night, houses and shops remained open, and nothing was taken
from them, and travelling was as safe by night as by day."

Marco Polo came first to the town of Coigangui, now called Hoang-fou, on the banks of the Yellow
River, where the principal industry is the preparation of the salt found in the salt marshes.
One day's journey from this town he came to Pau-in-chen, famous for its cloth of gold, and
the town of Caiu, now Kao-yu, whose inhabitants are clever fishermen and hunters, then to the
city of Tai-cheu, where numerous vessels are generally to be found, and at last to the city
of Yangui.

This town of Yangui, of which Marco Polo was the governor for three years, is the modern Yang-tchou;
it is a very populous and busy town, and cannot be less than two leagues in circumference.
It was from Yangui that the traveller set out on the various expeditions which enabled him
to see so much of the inland and sea-coast towns.

First, the traveller went westward to Nan-ghin, which must not be confounded with Nan-kin of
the present day. Its modern name is Ngan-khing, and it stands in the midst of a remarkably
fertile province. Further on in the same direction he came to Saianfu, which is now called
Siang-yang, and is built in the northern part of the province of Hou-pe. This was the last
town in the province of Mangi that resisted the dominion of Kublaï-Khan; he besieged it for
three years, and he owed his taking it at last to the help of the three Polos, who constructed
some powerful balistas and crushed the besieged under a perfect hail-storm of stones, some
of which weighed as much as three hundred pounds. From Saianfu Marco Polo retraced his steps
that he might visit some of the towns on the sea-coast. He visited Kui-kiang on the river Kiang,
which is very broad here, and upon which 5000 ships can sail at the same moment; Kain-gui,
which supplies the Emperor's palace with corn; Ching-kiang where are two Nestorian Christian
churches; Ginguigui, now Tchang-tcheou, a busy thriving city; and Singui, now called Soo-choo,
a large town, which, according to the very exaggerated account of the Venetian traveller, has
no less than 6000 bridges.

After spending some time at Vugui, probably Hou-tcheou, and at Ciangan, now Kia-hing, Marco
Polo reached the fine city of Quinsay, after three days' march. This name means the "City of
Heaven," but it is now called Hang-chow-foo. It is six leagues round; the river Tsien-tang-kiang
flows through it, and by its constant windings, makes Quinsay almost a second Venice. This
ancient capital of the Soongs is almost as populous as Pekin; its streets are paved with stones
and bricks, and if we may credit Marco Polo's statement, it contained "600,000 houses, 4000
bathing establishments, and 12,000 stone bridges." In this city dwell the richest merchants
in the world with their wives, who are "beautiful and angelic creatures." It is the residence
of a viceroy, who has besides, 140 other cities under his dominion. Here was to be seen also
the palace of the Mangi sovereigns surrounded by beautiful gardens, lakes, and fountains, the
palace itself containing more than a thousand rooms. Kublaï-Khan draws immense revenues from
this town and province, and it is by tens of thousands of pounds we must reckon the income
derived from the sugar, salt, spices, and silk, which form the principal productions of this
country. At one day's journey south from Quinsay, Marco Polo visited Chao-hing, Vugui, or Hou-tcheou,
Ghengui or Kui-tcheou, Cianscian or Yo-tcheou-fou (according to M. Charton), and Sonï-tchang-fou
(according to M. Pauthier), and Cugui or Kiou-tcheou, the last town in the kingdom of Quinsay;
thence he entered the kingdom of Fugui, whose chief town of the same name is now called Fou-tcheou-foo,
the capital of the province of Fo-kien. According to Marco Polo, the inhabitants of this province
are a cruel warlike race, never sparing their enemies, of whom, after they have killed them,
they drink the blood and eat the flesh. After passing by Quenlifu, now Kien-ning-foo, and Unguen,
the traveller entered Fugui, probably the modern town of Kuant-tcheou (called Canton amongst
us), and the chief town of the province, where a large trade in pearls and precious stones
was carried on, and in five days he reached the port of Zaitem, probably the Chinese town of
Tsiuen-tcheou, which was the extreme point reached by him in this exploration of south-eastern
China.

IV. MARCO POLO.

Marco Polo returned to the court of Kublaï-Khan when he had finished the expedition of which
we spoke in the last chapter. He was then entrusted with several other missions, in which he
found his knowledge of the Turkish, Chinese, Mongolian, and Mantchorian languages of the greatest
use. He seems to have taken part in an expedition to the islands in the Indian Ocean, and he
brought back a detailed account of this hitherto little known sea. There is a want of clearness
as to dates at this part of his life, which makes it difficult to give a correct narrative
of these voyages in their right order. He gives a circumstantial account of the Island of Cipango,
a name applying to the group of islands which make up Japan; but it does not appear that he
actually entered that kingdom. This country was famous for its wealth, and about 1264, some
years before Marco Polo arrived at the Tartar court, Kublaï-Khan had tried to conquer it and
sent his fleet there with that purpose. They had taken possession of a citadel and put all
its valiant defenders to the edge of the sword, but just at the moment of apparent victory
a storm arose and dispersed all the enemy's fleet, and thus the expedition was useless. Marco
Polo gives a long account of this attempt, and adds many curious particulars as to Japanese
customs.

Marco Polo, with his father and uncle, had now been seventeen years in the service of Kublaï-Khan,
and even longer absent from their own country; they had a great wish to revisit it, but the
Emperor had become so much attached to them, and valued their services so highly, that he could
not make up his mind to part with them. He tried in every way to shake their resolution, offering
them riches and honour if only they would remain with him, but they still held to their plan
of returning to Europe; the Emperor then absolutely refused to allow them to go, and Marco
Polo could find no means of eluding the surveillance of which he was the object, until circumstances
arose which quite changed Kublaï-Khan's resolution.

A Mongol prince, named Arghun, whose dominions were in Persia, had sent an ambassador to the
Emperor to ask one of the princesses of the blood royal, in marriage. Kublaï-Khan acceded to
his request and sent off his daughter Cogatra to Prince Arghun, attended by a numerous suite;
but the countries by which they endeavoured to travel were not safe; the caravan was soon stopped
by disturbances and rebellions, and after some months was obliged to return to the Emperor's
palace. The Persian ambassadors had heard Marco Polo spoken of as a clever navigator who had
had some experience of the Indian Ocean, and they begged the Emperor to confide the Princess
Cogatra to his care, that he might conduct her to her future husband, thinking that the voyage
by sea would probably be attended by less danger than a land journey.

After some demur Kublaï-Khan acceded to their request, and equipped a fleet of forty four-masted
vessels, provisioning them for two years. Some of these were very large, having a crew of 250
men, for this was an important expedition worthy of the opulent Emperor of China. Matteo, Nicolo,
and Marco Polo set out with the Chinese princess and the Persian ambassadors, and it was during
this voyage, which lasted eighteen months, that it seems most probable that Marco Polo visited
the islands of Sunda and other islands in the Indian Ocean, as well as Ceylon and the towns
on the coast of India. We will follow him in his voyage and give his description of the places
that he visited in this hitherto little known portion of the globe.

It must have been about 1291 or 1292 that the fleet left the port of Zaitem, under the command
of Marco Polo. He steered first for Tchampa, a great country situated at the south of Cochin
China, and which contains the present province of Saïgon, belonging to France. This was not
a new country to Marco Polo, as he had visited it about 1280, when he was on a mission for
the Emperor. At this time, Tchampa was under the dominion of the grand khan, and paid him an
annual tribute in elephants; when Marco Polo visited this country before its conquest by Kublaï-Khan,
he found the reigning king had no less than 326 children, of whom 150 were old enough to carry
arms.

Leaving the peninsula of Cambodia, the fleet went in the direction of Java, the rich island
that Kublaï-Khan had never been able to subjugate, where abundance of pepper, cloves, nutmegs,
&c., grew. After putting into port at Condor and Sandur, at the extremity of the peninsular
of Cochin China, they reached the island of Pentam (Bintang), situated near the eastern entrance
of the straits of Malacca, and the island of Sumatra, called Little Java. "This island is so
much in the south," he says, "that they never see there the polar star," which is true as far
as the inhabitants of the southern part are concerned. It is very fertile, aloes growing most
luxuriantly; and here wild elephants and rhinoceroses (called by Marco Polo unicorns) are found,
and apes, too, in large numbers. The fleet was detained five months on these shores by contrary
winds, and the traveller made the most of his time in visiting the principal provinces of the
island, such as Samara, Dagraian, and Labrin (which boasts a great number of men with tails--evidently
apes), and the island of Fandur or Panchor, where the sago-tree grows, from which a kind of
flour is obtained that makes very good bread.

At last the wind changed, and enabled the vessels to leave Little Java, and after touching
at Necaran, which must be one of the Nicobar Islands, and at the Andaman group, whose inhabitants
are still cannibals, as they were in the time of Marco Polo, the fleet took a south-westerly
course and arrived on the coast of Ceylon. "This island," says the traveller in his narrative,
"was once much larger, for according to the map of the world that the pilots of these seas
carry, it was once 3600 miles in circumference but the north wind blows with such force in
these parts that it caused a part of the island to be submerged." This tradition is still held
by the inhabitants of Ceylon. Here are collected in abundance, rubies, sapphires, topaz, amethysts,
and other precious stones, such as garnets, opals, agates, and sardonyx. The king of the country
was the possessor at this time of a most splendid ruby as long as the palm of the hand, as
thick as a man's arm, and red as fire, which excited the envy of the grand khan, who vainly
tried to induce its possessor to part with it, offering a whole city in exchange, but that
could not tempt the King to let him have the jewel.

Sixty miles west of Ceylon the travellers came to Maabar, a great province on the coast of
India. This must not be mistaken for Malabar, which is situated on the west coast of the Indian
peninsula. This Maabar forms the southern part of the Coromandel coast, and is celebrated for
its pearl fisheries. Here the magicians are at work, and are said to render the monsters of
the deep harmless to the fishermen; they are astrologers whose race is perpetuated even to
modern times. Marco Polo gives some interesting details of the customs of the natives, one
is that when a king dies, the nobles throw themselves into the fire in his honour; another
strange custom is that of the religious purifications twice every day, and their blind faith
in astrologers and diviners; he also speaks of the frequency of religious suicides, and the
sacrifice of widows whom the funeral pile awaits on the death of their husbands. He also notices
the skill in physiognomy evinced by the natives.

The next resting-place of the fleet was Muftili, of which the capital is now called Masulipatam,
the chief city of the kingdom of Golconda. This country was well governed by a queen, a widow
for forty years, who desired to remain faithful to the memory of her husband. The country contained
many valuable diamond mines, but these were unfortunately among mountains where serpents abounded;
the miners had recourse to a strange device when collecting the precious stones, to protect
themselves from these reptiles, which we may believe or not as we choose. Marco Polo says:
"They take several pieces of meat, and throw them among the pointed rocks, where no man can
go, and the meat, falling upon the diamonds, they become attached to it. Now, among these mountains
live a number of white eagles, who hunt the serpents, and when they see the meat at the foot
of the precipices they swoop down and carry it away. At the moment the men who have been following
the eagles' movements see them alight to eat the meat, they raise fearful cries, the meat is
dropped and the eagles take to flight, and thus the men have no difficulty in taking the diamonds
that are attached to the meat. Diamonds are often found on the mountains, mingled with the
excrement of the eagles."

After visiting the small town of St. Thomas, situated some miles to the south of Madras, where
St. Thomas the apostle is said to be buried, the travellers explored the kingdom of Maabar
and especially the province of Lar, from whence spring all the "Abrahamites" of the world,
probably the Brahmins. These men, he says, live to a great age, owing to their abstinence and
sobriety; some have been known to attain 150 and even 200 years of age; their diet is principally
rice and milk, and they drink a mixture of sulphur and quicksilver. These "Abrahamites" are
clever merchants, superstitious, however, but remarkably sincere, and never guilty of theft
of any kind; they never kill any living thing, and they worship the ox, which is a sacred animal
among them.

The fleet now returned to Ceylon, where in 1284 Kublaï-Khan had sent an ambassador who had
brought him back some pretended relics of Adam, and among other things two of his molar teeth;
for, if we can believe the Saracen traditions, the tomb of our first father must have been
on the summit of one of the precipitous mountains, which forms the highest ground in the island.
After losing sight of Ceylon, Marco Polo went to Cail, a port that we do not find marked on
any of the modern maps, but a place where all the vessels touched coming from Ormuz, Kiss,
Aden, and the coasts of Arabia. Thence doubling Cape Comorin they came to Coilum, now Quilon,
which was a very thriving city in the thirteenth century. It is there that a great quantity
of sandal-wood and indigo is found, and merchants come in large numbers from the Levant and
from the West to trade in both. The country of Malabar produces a great quantity of rice, and
wild animals are found there, such as leopards, which Marco Polo calls "black lions," also
peacocks of much greater beauty than those of Europe, as well as different kinds of parroquets.

The fleet, leaving Coilum, and advancing northwards along the Malabar coast, arrived at the
shores of the kingdom of Maundallay, which derives its name from a mountain situated on the
borders of Kanara and Malabar; here pepper, ginger, saffron, and other spices abound. To the
north of this kingdom extended that country which the Venetian traveller calls Melibar, and
which is situated to the north of Malabar proper. The vessels of the Mangalore merchants came
here to trade with the natives of this part of India for cargoes of spices, a fine kind of
cloth called buckram and other valuable wares; but their vessels were frequently attacked,
and too often pillaged by the pirates who infested these seas, and who were justly regarded
as formidable enemies. These pirates principally inhabit the peninsula of Gohourat, now called
Gujerat, where the fleet was on its way after calling at Tana--a country where is collected
the frankincense--and Canboat, now Kambay, a town where there is a great trade in leather.
Visiting Sumenath, a city of the peninsula, whose inhabitants are cruel, ferocious, and idolaters,
and Kesmacoran, the modern city of Kedje, the capital of Makran, situated on the Indus near
the sea, and the last town in India on the northwest, Marco Polo went westward across the sea
of Oman, instead of going to Persia, which was the destination of the princess.

His insatiable love of exploration led him 500 miles away to the shores of Arabia, where he
stopped at the Male and Female Islands, so called from the men usually living on one island,
and their wives on the other. Thence they sailed to the south towards the island of Socotra,
at the entrance of the Gulf of Aden, which, Marco Polo partially explored. He speaks of the
inhabitants of Socotra as clever magicians, who, by their enchantments, obtain the fulfilment
of all their wishes as well as the power of stilling storms and tempests. Then, taking a southerly
course of 1000 miles, he arrived at the shores of Madagascar. This island appeared to him to
be one of the grandest in the world. Its inhabitants are very much occupied with commerce,
especially in elephants' tusks. They live principally upon camels' flesh, which is better and
more wholesome food than any other. The merchants on their way from the coast of India are
usually only twenty days crossing the Sea of Oman; but when they return they are often three
months on the voyage on account of the opposing currents which take them always southwards.
Nevertheless, they visit Madagascar very constantly, for there are whole forests of sandal-wood,
and amber is also found there, from which they can obtain great profit by bartering it for
gold and silk stuffs. Wild animals and game are plentiful; according to Marco Polo, leopards,
bears, lions, wild boars, giraffes, wild asses, roebucks, deer, stags, and cattle were to be
found in great numbers; but what seemed most marvellous of all to him was the fabulous griffin,
the roc, of which we hear so much in the "Thousand and one Nights," which is not, he says,
"an animal, half-lion and half-bird, able to raise and carry away an elephant in its claws."
It was probably the "epyornis maximus," for some eggs of this bird are still to be found in
Madagascar.

From this island Marco Polo went in a north-westerly direction to Zanzibar and the coast of
Africa. The inhabitants seemed to him remarkably stout, but strong and able to carry the burdens
of four ordinary men, "which is not strange," he says, "for they each eat as much as five other
men;" these natives were black and wore no clothing, they had large mouths and turned-up noses,
thick lips, and large eyes, a description that agrees exactly with that of the natives of that
part of Africa now. They live upon rice, meat, milk, and dates, and make a kind of wine of
rice, sugar, and spices. They are brave warriors and fearless of death; they are usually in
war mounted on camels and elephants, and armed with a leathern shield, a sword, and a lance;
they give their animals an intoxicating drink to excite them on going into action.

In Marco Polo's time, says M. Charton, the countries comprised under the title of India were
divided into three parts; Greater India or Hindostan, that is, the country lying between the
Indus and the Ganges; Lesser India, that is, all the country lying beyond the Ganges, between
the western coast of the peninsula and the coast of Cochin China; lastly, Middle India, that
is, Abyssinia and the Arabian coast to the Persian Gulf. After leaving Zanzibar it was Middle
India whose coast Marco Polo explored, sailing towards the north, and first Abassy or Abyssinia,
a fertile country where the manufacture of fine cotton cloths and buckram is largely carried
on. Then the fleet went to Zaila, almost at the entrance of the straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, and
at last by the coast of Yemen and Hadramaut they came to Aden, the port frequented by all the
ships trading with India and China; then to Escier, whence a great quantity of fine horses
are exported; Dafar, which produces incense of the finest quality, and Galatu, now Kalajate,
on the coast of Oman; then to Ormuz, that Marco Polo had visited once before when he was on
his way from Venice to the court of Kublaï-Khan. This was the furthest point that the fleet
had to reach, as the princess was now on the borders of Persia, after a voyage of eighteen
months. But on their arrival they were met by the sad news of the death of Prince Arghun, the
fiancé of the princess, and they found the country involved in civil war. The poor princess
was put under the care of Prince Ghazan, the son of Prince Arghun, who did not ascend the throne
until 1295, when his uncle, the usurper, was strangled. What became of the princess we do not
hear, but on parting with Nicolo, Matteo, and Marco Polo, she bestowed on them great marks
of favour. It was probably during Marco Polo's residence in Persia that he collected some curious
documents upon Turkey in Asia; they are disconnected pieces, which he gives at the close of
his narrative, and they form a genuine history of the Mongol Khans of Persia. His travels for
exploration were at an end, and after taking leave of the Tartar princess, the three Venetians
well escorted, and with all expenses paid, set out on their way home. They went to Trebizond,
then to Constantinople, and thence to Negropont, where they embarked for Venice.

It was in the year 1295, twenty-four years after leaving it, that Marco Polo and his companions
returned to their native town. They were bronzed by exposure to the air and sun, coarsely clad
in Tartar costume, and both in manners and language were so much more Mongolian than Venetian,
that even their nearest relatives failed to recognize them. Beyond this, a report had been
widely spread that they were dead, and it had gained so much credence that their friends never
expected to see them again. They went to their own house in the part of Venice called St. John
Chrysostom, and found it occupied by different members of the Polo family, who received the
travellers with every mark of distrust, which their pitiable appearance did not tend to lessen,
and placed no faith in the somewhat marvellous stories related to them by Marco Polo. After
some persuasion, however, they gained admittance into their own house. When they had been a
few days in Venice, the three travellers gave a magnificent banquet, followed by a splendid
fête, to do away with any remaining doubts as to their identity. They invited the nobility
of Venice and all the members of their own family, and when all the guests were assembled the
three hosts appeared dressed in crimson satin robes; the guests then entered the dining-room,
and the feast began. After the first course was over the three travellers retired for a few
moments and then reappeared, clad in robes of splendid silk damask, which they proceeded to
tear, and to present each of their guests with a piece. After the second course they dressed
themselves in even more splendid robes of crimson velvet, which they wore until the feast was
over, when they appeared in simple Venetian costume. The astonished guests marvelled at the
magnificence of these garments, and wondered what their hosts would next show them; then the
coarse rough clothes that they had worn on the voyage were brought in, and when the linings
and seams were undone, rubies, sapphires, emeralds, diamonds, and carbuncles of great value
were poured forth from them; great riches had been hidden in these rags. This unexpected sight
cleared away all doubt; the three travellers were recognized at once as Marco, Nicolo, and
Matteo Polo, and congratulations upon their return were showered upon them.

So celebrated a man as Marco Polo could not escape civic honours. He was made first magistrate
in Venice, and as he was continually speaking of the "millions" of the Grand Khan, who commanded
"millions" of subjects, he gained the soubriquet of Signor Million.

It was about 1296 that a war broke out between Venice and Genoa. A Genoese fleet under the
command of Lamba Doria crossed the Adriatic, and threatened the sea coast. The Venetian Admiral
Andrea Dandolo immediately manned a larger fleet and entrusted the command of a galley to Marco
Polo who was justly considered an able commander. The Venetians were beaten in a naval battle
on the 8th of September, 1296, and Marco Polo, badly wounded, fell into the hands of the Genoese,
who, knowing and appreciating the value of their prisoner, treated him with great kindness.
He was taken to Genoa, and there met with a hearty welcome from the most distinguished people,
who were anxious to hear the account of his travels. It was during his captivity, in 1298,
that he made acquaintance with Pisano Rusticien, and, tired of repeating his story again and
again, dictated his narrative to him.

About 1299 Marco Polo was set at liberty; he returned to Venice, and there married. From this
time we hear no more of the incidents of his life, and only know from his will that he left
three daughters; he is thought to have died about the 9th of January, 1323, at the age of seventy.

Such is the life of this celebrated traveller, whose narrative had a marked influence on the
progress of geographical science. He was gifted with great power of observation, and could
see and describe equally well; and all later explorers have confirmed the truth of his statements.
Until the middle of the eighteenth century, the documents founded on this narrative formed
the basis of geographical books, and were used as a guide in commercial expeditions to China,
India, and Central Asia. Posterity will concur in the suitability of the title that the first
copyists gave to Marco Polo's work, that of "The Book of the Wonders of the World."

Marco Polo had returned to his native land now nearly twenty-five years, when a Franciscan
monk traversed the whole of Asia, from the Black Sea to the extreme limits of China, passing
by Trebizond, Mount Ararat, Babel, and the island of Java; but he was so credulous of all that
was told him, and his narrative is so confused, that but little reliance can be placed upon
it. It is the same with the fabulous travels of Jean de Mandeville. Cooley says of them, "They
are so utterly untrue, that they have not their parallel in any language."

But we find a worthy successor to the Venetian traveller in an Arabian theologian, named Abdallah
El Lawati, better known by the name of Ibn Batuta. He did for Egypt, Arabia, Anatolia, Tartary,
India, China, Bengal, and Soudan, what Marco Polo had done for Central Asia, and he is worthy
to be placed in the foremost rank as a brave traveller and bold explorer. In the year 1324,
the 725th year of the Hegira, he resolved to make a pilgrimage to Mecca, and starting from
Tangier, his native town, he went first to Alexandria, and thence to Cairo. During his stay
in Egypt he turned his attention to the Nile, and especially to the Delta; then he tried to
sail up the river, but being stopped by disturbances on the Nubian frontier, he was obliged
to return to the mouth of the river, and then set sail for Asia Minor.

After visiting Gaza, the tombs of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Tyre, then strongly fortified
and unassailable on three sides, and Tiberias, which was in ruins, and whose celebrated baths
were completely destroyed, Ibn Batuta was attracted by the wonders of Lebanon, the centre for
all the hermits of that day, who had judiciously chosen one of the most lovely spots in the
whole world wherein to end their days. Then passing Baalbec, and going on to Damascus, he found
the city (in the year 1345) decimated by the plague. This fearful scourge devoured "24,000
persons daily," if we may believe his report, and Damascus would have been depopulated, had
not the prayers of all the people offered up in the mosque containing the stone with the print
of Moses' foot upon it, been heard and answered. On leaving Damascus, Ibn Batuta went to Mesjid,
where he visited the tomb of Ali, which attracts a large number of paralytic pilgrims who need
only to spend one night in prayer beside it, to be completely cured. Batuta does not seem to
doubt the authenticity of this miracle, well known in the East under the title of "the Night
of Cure."

From Mesjid, the traveller went to Bussorah, and entered the kingdom of Ispahan, and then the
province of Shiraz, where he wished to converse with the celebrated worker of miracles, Magd
Oddin. From Shiraz he went to Baghdad, to Tabriz, then to Medina, where he prayed beside the
tomb of the Prophet, and finally to Mecca, where he remained three years. It is well known
that from Mecca, caravans are continually starting for the surrounding country, and it was
in company with some of these bold merchants that Ibn Batuta was able to visit the towns of
Yemen. He went as far as Aden, at the mouth of the Red Sea, and embarked for Zaila, one of
the Abyssinian ports. He was now once more on African ground, and advanced into the country
of the Berbers, that he might study the manners and customs of those dirty and repulsive tribes;
he found their diet consisted wholly of fish and camels' flesh. But in the town of Makdasbu,
there was an attempt at comfort and civilization, presenting a most agreeable contrast with
the surrounding squalor. The inhabitants were very fat, each of them, to use Ibn's own expression,
"eating enough to feed a convent;" they were very fond of delicacies, such as plantains boiled
in milk, preserved citrons, pods of fresh pepper, and green ginger.

After seeing all he wished of the country of the Berbers, chiefly on the coast, he resolved
to go to Zanguebar, and then, crossing the Red Sea and following the coast of Arabia, he came
to Zafar, a town situated upon the Indian Ocean. The vegetation of this country is most luxuriant,
the betel, cocoa-nut, and incense-trees forming there great forests; still the traveller pushed
on, and came to Ormuz on the Persian Gulf, and passed through several provinces of Persia.
We find him a second time at Mecca in the year 1332, three years after he had left it.

But this was only to be a short rest for the traveller, for now, leaving Asia for Africa, he
went to Upper Egypt, a region but little known, and thence to Cairo. He next visited Syria,
making a short stay at Jerusalem and Tripoli, and thence he visited the Turkomans of Anatolia,
where the "confraternity of young men" gave him a most hearty welcome.

After Anatolia, the Arabian narrative speaks of Asia Minor. Ibn Batuta advanced as far as Erzeroum,
where he was shown an aerolite weighing 620 pounds. Then, crossing the Black Sea, he visited
the Crimea, Kaffa, and Bulgar, a town of sufficiently high latitude for the unequal length
of day and night to be very marked; and at last he reached Astrakhan, at the mouth of the Volga,
where the Khan of Tartary lived during the winter months.

The Princess Bailun, the wife of the khan, and daughter of the Emperor of Constantinople, was
wishing to visit her father, and it was an opportunity not to be lost by Ibn Batuta for exploring
Turkey in Europe; he gained permission to accompany the princess, who set out attended by 5000
men, and followed by a portable mosque, which was set up at every place where they stayed.
The princess's reception at Constantinople was very magnificent, the bells being rung with
such spirit that he says, "even the horizon seemed full of the vibration."

The welcome given to the theologian by the princes of the country was worthy of his fame; he
remained in the city thirty-six days, so that he was able to study it in all its details.

This was a time when communication between the different countries was both dangerous and difficult,
and Ibn Batuta was considered a very bold traveller. Egypt, Arabia, Turkey in Asia, the Caucasian
provinces had all in turn been explored by him. After such hard work he might well have taken
rest and been satisfied with the laurels that he had gained, for he was without doubt the most
celebrated traveller of the fourteenth century; but his insatiable passion for travelling remained,
and the circle of his explorations was still to widen considerably.

On leaving Constantinople, Ibn Batuta went again to Astrakhan, thence crossing the sandy wastes
of the present Turkestan, he arrived at Khovarezen, a large populous town, then at Bokhara,
half destroyed by the armies of Gengis-Khan. Some time after we hear of him at Samarcand, a
religious town which greatly pleased the learned traveller, and then at Balkh which he could
not reach without crossing the desert of Khorassan. This town was all in ruins and desolate,
for the armies of the barbarians had been there, and Ibn Batuta could not remain in it, but
wished to go westward to the frontier of Afghanistan. The mountainous country, near the Hindoo
Koosh range, confronted him, but this was no barrier to him, and after great fatigue, which
he bore with equal patience and good-humour, he reached the important town of Herat. This was
the most westerly point reached by the traveller; he now resolved to change his course for
an easterly one, and in going to the extreme limits of Asia, to reach the shores of the Pacific:
if he could succeed in this he would pass the bounds of the explorations of the celebrated
Marco Polo.

He set out, and following the course of the river Kabul and the frontiers of Afghanistan, he
came to the Sindhu, the modern Indus, and descended it to its mouth. From the town of Lahore,
he went to Delhi, which great and beautiful city had been deserted by its inhabitants, who
had fled from the Emperor Mohammed.

This tyrant, who was occasionally both generous and magnificent, received the Arabian traveller
very well, made him a judge in Delhi, and gave him a grant of land with some pecuniary advantages
that were attached to the post, but these honours were not to be of any long duration, for
Ibn Batuta being implicated in a pretended conspiracy, thought it best to give up his place,
and make himself a fakir to escape the Emperor's displeasure. Mohammed, however, pardoned him,
and made him his ambassador to China.

Fortune again smiled upon the courageous traveller, and he had now the prospect of seeing these
distant lands under exceptionally good and safe circumstances. He was charged with presents
for the Emperor of China, and 2000 horse-soldiers were given him as an escort.

But Ibn Batuta had not thought of the insurgents who occupied the surrounding countries; a
skirmish took place between the escort and the Hindoos, and the traveller, being separated
from his companions, was taken prisoner, robbed, garotted, and carried off he knew not whither;
but his courage and hopefulness did not forsake him, and he contrived to escape from the hands
of these robbers. After wandering about for seven days, he was received into his house by a
negro, who at length led him back to the emperor's palace at Delhi.

Mohammed fitted out another expedition, and again appointed the Arabian traveller as his ambassador.
This time they passed through the enemy's country without molestation, and by way of Kanoje,
Mersa, Gwalior, and Barun, they reached Malabar. Some time after, they arrived at the great
port of Calicut, an important place which became afterwards the chief town of Malabar; here
they were detained by contrary winds for three months, and made use of this time to study the
Chinese mercantile marine which frequented this port. Ibn speaks with great admiration of these
junks which are like floating gardens, where ginger and herbs are grown on deck; they are each
like a separate village, and some merchants were the possessors of a great number of these junks.

At last the wind changed; Ibn Batuta chose a small junk well fitted up, to take him to China,
and had all his property put on board. Thirteen other junks were to receive the presents sent
by the King of Delhi to the Emperor of China, but during the night a violent storm arose, and
all the vessels sank. Fortunately for Ibn he had remained on shore to attend the service at
the mosque, and thus his piety saved his life, but he had lost everything except "the carpet
which he used at his devotions." After this second misfortune he could not make up his mind
to appear before the King of Delhi. This catastrophe was enough to weary the patience of a
more long-suffering emperor than Mohammed.

Ibn soon made up his mind what to do. Leaving the service of the emperor, and the advantages
attaching to the post of ambassador, he embarked for the Maldive Islands, which were governed
by a woman, and where a large trade in cocoa was carried on. Here he was again made a judge,
but this was only of short duration, for the vizier became jealous of his success, and, after
marrying three wives, Ibn was obliged to take refuge in flight. He hoped to reach the Coromandel
coast, but contrary winds drove his vessel towards Ceylon, where he was very well received,
and gained the king's permission to climb the sacred mountain of Serendid, or Adam's Peak.
His object was to see the wonderful impression of a foot at the summit, which the Hindoos call
"Buddha's," and the Mahometans "Adam's, foot." He pretends, in his narrative, that this impression
measures eleven hands in length, a very different account from that of an historian of the
ninth century, who declared it to be seventy-nine cubits long! This historian also adds that
while one of the feet of our forefather rested on the mountain, the other was in the Indian ocean.

Ibn Batuta speaks also of large bearded apes, forming a considerable item in the population
of the island, and said to be under a king of their own, crowned with leaves. We can give what
credit we like to such fables as these, which were propagated by the credulity of the Hindoos.

From Ceylon, the traveller made his way to the Coromandel coast, but not without experiencing
some severe storms. He crossed to the other side of the Indian peninsula, and again embarked.

But his vessel was seized by pirates, and Ibn Batuta arrived at Calicut almost without clothes,
robbed, and worn out with fatigue. No misfortune could damp his ardour, his was one of those
great spirits which seem only invigorated by trouble and disasters. As soon as he was enabled
by the kindness of some Delhi merchants to resume his travels, he embarked for the Maldive
Islands, went on to Bengal, there set sail for Sumatra, and disembarked at one of the Nicobar
Islands after a very bad passage which had lasted fifty days. Fifteen days afterwards he arrived
at Sumatra, where the king gave him a hearty welcome and furnished him with means to continue
his journey to China.

A junk took him in seventy-one days to the port Kailuka, capital of a country somewhat problematical,
of which the brave and handsome inhabitants excelled in making arms. From Kailuka, Ibn passed
into the Chinese provinces, and went first to the splendid town of Zaitem, probably the present
Tsieun-tcheou of the Chinese, a little to the north of Nankin. He passed through various cities
of this great empire, studying the customs of the people and admiring everywhere the riches,
industry, and civilization that he found, but he did not get as far as the Great Wall, which
he calls "The obstacle of Gog and Magog." It was while he was exploring this immense tract
of country that he made a short stay in the city of Tchensi, which is composed of six fortified
towns standing together. It happened that during his wanderings he was able to be present at
the funeral of a khan, who was buried with four slaves, six of his favourites, and four horses.

In the meanwhile, disturbances had occurred at Zaitem, which obliged Ibn to leave this town,
so he set sail for Sumatra, and then after touching at Calicut and Ormuz, he returned to Mecca
in 1348, having made the tour of Persia and Syria.

But the time of rest had not yet come for this indefatigable explorer; the following year he
revisited his native place Tangier, and then after travelling in the southern countries of
Europe he returned to Morocco, went to Soudan and the countries watered by the Niger, crossed
the Great Desert and entered Timbuctoo, thus making a journey which would have rendered illustrious
a less ambitious traveller.

This was to be his last expedition. In 1353, twenty-nine years after leaving Tangier for the
first time, he returned to Morocco, and settled at Fez. He has earned the reputation of being
the most intrepid explorer of the fourteenth century, and well merits to be ranked next after
Marco Polo, the illustrious Venetian.

Jean de Béthencourt was born about the year 1339, at Eu in Normandy. He was of good family,
and Baron of St. Martin-le-Gaillard, and had distinguished himself both as a navigator and
warrior; he was made chamberlain to Charles VI. But his tastes were more for travelling than
a life at court; he resolved to make himself a still more illustrious name by further conquests,
and soon an opportunity offered for him to carry out his plans.

On the coast of Africa there is a group of islands called the Canaries, which were once known
as the Fortunate Islands. Juba, a son of one of the Numidian kings, is said to have been their
first explorer, about the year of Rome 776. In the middle ages, according to some accounts,
Arabs, Genoese, Portuguese, Spaniards, and Biscayans, had partially visited this interesting
group of islands. In 1393, a Spanish gentleman named Almonaster, who was commanding an expedition,
succeeded in landing on Lancerota, one of these islands, and brought back, with several prisoners,
some produce which was a sufficient guarantee of the fertility of this archipelago.

The Norman cavalier now found the opening that he sought, and he determined to conquer the
Canary Islands and try to convert the inhabitants to the Catholic faith. He was as intelligent,
brave, and full of resources as he was energetic; and leaving his house of Grainville-la-Teinturière
at Caux, he went to La Rochelle, where he met the Chevalier Gadifer de la Salle, and having
explained his project to him, they decided to go to the Canary Islands together. Jean de Béthencourt
having collected an army and made his preparations, and had vessels fitted out and manned,
Gadifer and he set sail; after experiencing adverse winds on the way to the Ile de Ré, and
being much harassed by the constant dissensions on board, they arrived at Vivero, and then
at Corunna. Here they remained eight days, then set sail again, and doubling Cape Finisterre,
followed the Portuguese coast to Cape St. Vincent, and arrived at Cadiz, where they made a
longer stay. Here Béthencourt had a dispute with some Genoese merchants, who accused him of
having taken their vessel, and he had to go to Seville, where King Henry III. heard his complaint
and acquitted him from all blame. On his return to Cadiz he found part of his crew in open
mutiny, and some of his sailors so frightened that they refused to continue the voyage, so
the chevalier sent back the cowardly sailors, and set sail with those who were more courageous.

The vessel in which Jean de Béthencourt sailed was becalmed for three days, then, the weather
improving, he reached the island of Graziosa, one of the smaller of the Canary group, in five
days, and then the larger island of Lancerota, which is nearly the same size as the island
of Rhodes. Lancerota has excellent pasturage, and arable land, which is particularly good for
the cultivation of barley; its numerous fountains and cisterns are well supplied with excellent
water. The orchilla, which is so much used in dyeing, grows abundantly here. The inhabitants
of this island, who as a rule wear scarce any clothing, are tall and well-made, and the women,
who wear leathern great-coats reaching to the ground, are very good-looking and honest.

The traveller, prior to disclosing his plans of conquest, wished to possess himself of some
of the natives, but his ignorance of the country made this a difficult matter, so, anchoring
under the shelter of a small island in the archipelago, he called a meeting of his companions
to decide upon a plan of action. They all agreed that the only thing to be done was to take
some of the natives by fair means or foul. Guardafia, the king of the island, treated Béthencourt
more as a friend than a subject. A castle or rather fort was built at the south-western extremity
of the island, and some men left there under the command of Berthin de Berneval, while Béthencourt
set out with the rest of his followers for the island of Erbania or Fortaventura. Gadifer counselled
a debarcation by night, which was done, and then he took the command of a small body of men
and scoured the island with them for eight days without meeting one native, they having all
fled to the mountains. Provisions failing, Gadifer was forced to return, and he went to the
island of Lobos between Lancerota and Fortaventura; but there his chief sailor mutinied and
it was not without difficulty that Gadifer and Béthencourt reached the fort on Lancerota.

Béthencourt resolved to return to Spain to get provisions and a new contingent of soldiers,
for his crew he could not depend upon; so he left Gadifer in command and set sail for Spain
in one of Gadifer's ships.

It will be remembered that Berthin de Berneval had been left in command of the fort on Lancerota
Island. Unfortunately he was Gadifer's bitter enemy, and no sooner had Béthencourt set out
than he tried to poison the minds of Gadifer's men against him; he succeeded in inducing some,
especially the Gascons, to revolt against the governor, who, quite innocent of Berneval's base
designs, was spending his time hunting sea-wolves on the island of Lobos with Remonnet de Levéden
and several others. Remonnet having been sent to Lancerota for provisions, found no Berneval
there, he having deserted the island with his accomplices for a port on Graziosa, where a coxswain,
deceived by his promises, had placed his vessel at his disposal. From Graziosa, the traitor
Berneval returned to Lancerota, and put the finishing stroke to his villany by pretending to
make an alliance with the king of the island. The king, thinking that no officer of Béthencourt's,
in whom he had implicit confidence, could deceive him, came with twenty-four of his subjects
to see Berneval, who seized them when asleep, had them bound, and then carried them off to
Graziosa. The king managed to break his bonds, set three of his men free, and succeeded in
escaping, but the remainder of his unfortunate companions were still prisoners, and Berneval
gave them up to some Spanish thieves, who took them away to sell in a foreign land.

Berneval's evil deeds did not stop here. By his order the vessel that Gadifer had sent to the
fort at Lancerota was seized; Remonnet tried resistance, but his numbers were too small, and
his supplications were useless to prevent Berneval's men, and even Berneval himself, from destroying
all the arms, furniture, and goods, which Béthencourt had placed in the fort at Lancerota.
Insults were showered upon the governor, and Berneval cried, "I should like Gadifer de la Salle
to know that if he were as young as I, I would kill him, but as he is not, I will spare him.
If he is put above me I shall have him drowned, and then he can fish for sea-wolves."

Meanwhile, Gadifer and his ten companions were in danger of perishing on the island of Lobos
for want of food and fresh water, but happily the two chaplains of the fort of Lancerota had
gone to Graziosa, and met the coxswain, who had been the victim of Berneval's treason, and
he sent one of his men named Ximenes with them back to Lancerota. There they found a small
boat which they filled with provisions, and embarking with four men who were faithful to Gadifer,
they succeeded in reaching Lobos, four leagues off, after a most dangerous passage.

Gadifer and his companions were suffering fearfully from hunger and thirst, when Ximenes arrived
just in time to save them from perishing, and the governor learning Berneval's treachery embarked
in the boat for Lancerota, as soon as he was a little restored to health. He was grieved at
Berneval's conduct towards the poor islanders whom Béthencourt and he had sworn to protect.
No! he never could have expected such wickedness in one who was looked upon as the most able
of the whole band.

But what was Berneval doing meanwhile? After having betrayed his master, he did the same to
the companions who had aided him in his evil deeds; he had twelve of them killed and then he
set out for Spain to rejoin Béthencourt and make his own case good by representing all that
had happened in his own way. It was to his interest to get rid of inconvenient witnesses, and
therefore he abandoned his companions. These unfortunate men at first meditated imploring the
pardon of the governor; they confessed all to the chaplains, but then, fearing the consequences
of their deeds, they seized a boat and fled towards Morocco. The boat reached the coast of
Barbary, where ten of the crew were drowned and the two others taken for slaves.

While all this was happening at Lancerota, Béthencourt arrived at Cadiz, where he took strong
measures against his mutinous crew, and had the ringleaders imprisoned. Then he sent his vessel
to Seville, where King Henry III. was at that time; but the ship sank in the Guadalquiver,
a great loss to Gadifer, her owner.

Béthencourt having arrived at Seville, met a certain Francisque Calve who had lately come from
the Canaries, and who offered to return thither with all the things needed by the governor,
but Béthencourt could not agree to this proposal before he had seen the king.

Just at this time, Berneval arrived with some of his accomplices, and some islanders whom he
intended to sell as slaves. He hoped to be able to deceive Béthencourt, but he had not reckoned
upon a certain Courtille who was with him, who lost no time in denouncing the villany of Berneval,
and on whose word the traitors were all imprisoned at Cadiz. Courtille also told of the treatment
that the poor islanders had received; as Béthencourt could not leave Seville till he had had
an audience with the king, he gave orders that they should receive every kindness, but while
these preliminaries were being concluded, the vessel that contained them was taken to Aragon,
and they were sold for slaves.

Béthencourt obtained the audience that he sought with the king of Castille, and after telling
him the result of his expedition he said, "Sire, I come to ask your assistance and your leave
to conquer the Canary Islands for the Catholic faith, and as you are king and lord of all the
surrounding country, and the nearest Christian king to these islands, I beg you to receive
the homage of your humble servant." The king was very gracious to him and gave him dominion
over these islands, and beyond this, a fifth of all the merchandise that should be brought
from them to Spain. He gave him 20,000 maravédis, about 600l., to buy all that he needed, and
also the right to coin money in the Canary Islands. Most unfortunately these 20,000 maravédis
were confided to the care of a dishonest man, who fled to France, carrying the money with him.

However, Henry III. gave Béthencourt a well-rigged vessel manned by eighty men, and stocked
with provisions, arms, &c. He was most grateful for this fresh bounty, and sent Gadifer an
account of all that had happened, and his extreme disappointment and disgust at Berneval's
conduct, in whom he had so much confidence, announcing at the same time the speedy departure
of the vessel given by the King of Castille.

But meanwhile very serious troubles had arisen on Lancerota. King Guardafia was so hurt at
Berneval's conduct that he had revolted, and some of Gadifer's companions had been killed by
the islanders. Gadifer insisted upon these subjects being punished, when one of the king's
relations named Ache, came to him proposing to dethrone the king, and put himself in his place.
This Ache was a villain, who after having betrayed his king, proposed to betray the Normans,
and to chase them from the country. Gadifer had no suspicion of his motives; wishing to avenge
the death of his men, he accepted Ache's proposal, and a short time afterwards, on the vigil
of St. Catherine's day, the king was seized, and conveyed to the fort in chains.

Some days afterwards, Ache, the new king of the island attacked Gadifer's companions, mortally
wounding several of them, but the following night Guardafia having made his escape from the
fort seized Ache, had him stoned to death, and his body burnt. The governor (Gadifer) was so
grieved by these scenes of violence, which were renewed daily, that he resolved to kill all
the men on the island, and save only the women and children, whom he hoped to have baptized.
But just at this time, the vessel that Béthencourt had freighted for the governor arrived,
and brought besides the eighty men, provisions, &c., a letter which told him among other things
that Béthencourt had done homage to the King of Castille for the Canary Islands. The governor
was not well pleased at this news, for he thought that he ought to have had his share in the
islands; but he concealed his displeasure, and gave the new comers a hearty welcome.

The arms were at once disembarked, and then Gadifer went on board the vessel to explore the
neighbouring islands. Remonnet and several others joined him in this expedition, and they took
two of the islanders with them to serve as guides.

They arrived safely at Fortaventura island; a few days after landing on the island, Gadifer
set out with thirty-five men to explore the country; but soon the greater part of his followers
deserted him, only thirteen men, including two archers, remaining with him. But he did not
give up his project; after wading through a large stream, he found himself in a lovely valley
shaded by numberless palm-trees; here having rested and refreshed himself, he set out again
and climbed a hill. At the summit he found about fifty natives, who surrounded the small party
and threatened to murder them. Gadifer and his companions showed no signs of fear, and succeeded
in putting their enemies to flight; by the evening they were able to regain their vessel, carrying
away four of the native women as prisoners.

The next day Gadifer left the island and went to the Gran Canaria island anchoring in a large
harbour lying between Telde and Argonney. Five hundred of the natives confronted them, but
apparently with no hostile intentions; they gave them some fish-hooks and old iron in exchange
for some of the natural productions of the island, such as figs, and dragon's blood, a resinous
substance taken from the dragon-tree, which has a very pleasant balsamic odour. The natives
were very much on their guard with the strangers, for twenty years before this some of Captain
Lopez' men had invaded the island; so they would not allow Gadifer to land.

The governor was obliged to weigh anchor without exploring the island; he went to Ferro Island,
and coasting along it arrived next at Gomera; it was night, and the sailors were attracted
by the fires that the natives had lighted on the shore. When day broke Gadifer and his companions
wished to land; but the islanders would not allow them to proceed when they reached the shore,
and drove them back to their vessel. Much disappointed by his reception, Gadifer determined
to make another attempt at Ferro Island; there he found that he could land without opposition,
and he remained on the island twenty-two days. The interior of the island was very beautiful.
Pine-trees grew in abundance, and clear streams of water added to its fertility. Quails were
found in large numbers, as well as pigs, goats, and sheep.

From this fertile island the party of explorers went to Palma, and anchored in a harbour situated
to the right of a large river. This is the furthest island of the Canary group; it is covered
with pine and dragon-trees; from the abundance of fresh water the pasturage is excellent and
the land might be cultivated with much profit. Its inhabitants are a tall, robust race, well
made, with good features and very white skin. Gadifer remained a short time on this island;
on leaving it he spent two days and two nights sailing round the other islands, and then returned
to the fort on Lancerota. They had been absent three months. In the meantime, those of the
party who had been left in the fort had waged a petty war with the natives, and had made a
great number of prisoners. The Canarians, demoralized, now came daily to cast themselves on
their mercy, and to pray for the consecration of baptism. Gadifer was so pleased to hear of
this, that he sent one of his companions to Spain to inform Béthencourt of the state of the colony.

II. JEAN DE BÉTHENCOURT.

The envoy had not reached Cadiz when Béthencourt landed at the fort on Lancerota. Gadifer gave
him a hearty welcome, and so did the Canary islanders who had been baptized. A few days afterwards,
King Guardafia came and threw himself on their mercy. He was baptized on the 20th of February,
1404, with all his followers. Béthencourt's chaplains drew up a very simple form of instruction
for their use, embracing the principal elements of Christianity, the creation, Adam and Eve's
fall, the history of Noah, the lives of the patriarchs, the life of our Saviour and His crucifixion
by the Jews, finishing with an exhortation to believe the ten commandments, the Holy Sacrament
of the Altar, Easter, confession, and some other points.

Béthencourt was an ambitious man. Not content with having explored, and so to speak, gained
possession of the Canary Islands, he desired to conquer the African countries bordering on
the ocean. This was his secret wish in returning to Lancerota, and meanwhile, he had full occupation
in establishing his authority in these islands, of which he was only the nominal sovereign.
He gave himself wholly to the task, and first visited the islands which Gadifer had explored.

But before he set out, a conversation took place between Gadifer and himself, which we must
not omit to notice. Gadifer began boasting of all he had done, and asked for the gift of Fortaventura,
Teneriffe, and Gomera Islands, as a recompense.

"My friend," replied Béthencourt, "the islands that you ask me to give you are not yet conquered,
but I do not intend you to be at any loss for your trouble, nor that you should be unrequited;
but let us accomplish our project, and meanwhile remain the friends we have always been."

"That is all very well," replied Gadifer, "but there is one point on which I do not feel at
all satisfied, and that is that you have done homage to the King of Castille for these islands,
and so you call yourself absolute master over them."

"With regard to that," said Béthencourt, "I certainly have done homage for them, and so I am
their rightful master, but if you will only patiently wait the end of our affair, I will give
you what I feel sure will quite content you."

"I shall not remain here," replied Gadifer, "I am going back to France, and have no wish to
be here any longer."

Upon this they separated, but Gadifer gradually cooled down and agreed to accompany Béthencourt
in his exploration of the islands.

They set out for Fortaventura well armed and with plenty of provisions. They remained there
three months, and began by seizing a number of the natives, and sending them to Lancerota.
This was such a usual mode of proceeding at that time that we are less surprised at it than
we should be at the present day. The whole island was explored and a fort named Richeroque
built on the slope of a high mountain; traces of it may still be found in a hamlet there.

Just at this time, and when he had scarcely had time to forget his grievances and ill-humour,
Gadifer accepted the command of a small band of men who were to conquer Gran Canaria.

He set out on the 25th July, 1404, but this expedition was not fated to meet with any good
results, winds and waves were against it. At last they reached the port of Telde, but as it
was nearly dark and a strong wind blowing they dared not land, and they went on to the little
town of Aginmez, where they remained eleven days at anchor; the natives, encouraged by their
king, laid an ambush for Gadifer and his followers; there was a skirmish, blood was shed, and
the Castilians, feeling themselves outnumbered, went to Telde for two days, and thence to Lancerota.

Gadifer was much disappointed at his want of success, and began to be discontented with everything
around him. Above all, his jealousy of Béthencourt increased daily, and he gave way to violent
recriminations, saying openly that the chief had not done everything himself, and that things
would not have been in so advanced a stage as they were if others had not aided him. This reached
Béthencourt's ears; he was much incensed, and reproached Gadifer. High words followed, Gadifer
insisted upon leaving the country, and as Béthencourt had just made arrangements for returning
to Spain, he proposed to Gadifer to accompany him, that their cause of disagreement might be
inquired into. This proposal being accepted, they set sail, but each in his own ship. When
they reached Seville, Gadifer laid his complaints before the king, but as the king gave judgment
against him, fully approving of Béthencourt's conduct, he left Spain, and returning to France,
never revisited the Canary Islands which he had so fondly hoped to conquer for himself.

Béthencourt took leave of the king almost at the same time, for the new colony demanded his
immediate presence there; but before he left, the inhabitants of Seville, with whom he was
a great favourite, showed him much kindness; what he valued more highly than anything else
was the supply of arms, gold, silver, and provisions that they gave him. He went to Fortaventura,
where his companions were delighted to see him. Gadifer had left his son Hannibal in his place,
but Béthencourt treated him with much cordiality.

The first days of the installation of Béthencourt were far from peaceful; skirmishes were of
constant occurrence, the natives even destroying the fortress of Richeroque, after burning
and pillaging a chapel. Béthencourt was determined to overcome them, and in the end succeeded.
He sent for several of his men from Lancerota, and gave orders that the fortress should be rebuilt.

In spite of all this the combats began again, and many of the islanders fell, among others
a giant of nine feet high, whom Béthencourt would have liked to have made prisoner. The governor
could not trust Gadifer's son nor the men who followed him, for Hannibal seemed to have inherited
his father's jealousy, but as Béthencourt needed his help, he concealed his distrust. Happily,
Béthencourt's men outnumbered those who were faithful to Gadifer, but Hannibal's taunts became
so unbearable that Jean de Courtois was sent to remind him of his oath of obedience and to
advise him to keep it.

Courtois was very badly received, he having a crow to pick with Hannibal with regard to some
native prisoners whom Gadifer's followers had kept and would not give up. Hannibal was obliged
to obey the orders, but Courtois represented his conduct to Béthencourt on his return in the
very worst light, and tried to excite his master's anger against him. "No, sir," answered the
upright Béthencourt, "I do not wish him to be wronged, we must never carry our power to its
utmost limits, we should always endeavour to control ourselves and preserve our honour rather
than seek for profit."

In spite of these intestine discords, the war continued between the natives and the conquerors,
but the latter being well-armed always came off victorious. The kings of Fortaventura sent
a native to Béthencourt saying that they wished to make peace with him, and to become Christians.
This news delighted the conqueror, and he sent word that they would be well received if they
would come to him. Almost immediately on receiving this reply, King Maxorata, who governed
the north-westerly part of the island, set out, and with his suite of twenty-two persons, was
baptized on the 18th of January, 1405. Three days afterwards twenty-two other natives received
the sacrament of baptism. On the 25th of January the king who governed the peninsula of Handia,
the south-eastern part of the island, came with twenty-six of his subjects, and was baptized.
In a short time all the inhabitants of Fortaventura had embraced the Christian religion.

Béthencourt was so elated with these happy results, that he arranged to revisit his own country,
leaving Courtois as governor during his absence. He set out on the last day of January amid
the prayers and blessings of his people, taking with him three native men and one woman, to
whom he wished to show something of France. He reached Harfleur in twenty-one days, and two
days later was at his own house, where he only intended making a short stay, and then returning
to the Canary Islands. He met with a very warm reception from everybody. One of his chief motives
in returning to France was the hope of finding people of all classes ready to return with him,
on the promise of grants of land in the island. He succeeded in finding a certain number of
emigrants, amongst whom were twenty-eight soldiers, of whom twenty-three took their wives.
Two vessels were prepared to transport the party, and the 6th of May was the day named for
them to set out. On the 9th of May they set sail, and landed on Lancerota just four mouths
and a half after Béthencourt had quitted it.

He was received with trumpets, clarionets, tambourines, harps, and other musical instruments.
Thunder could scarcely have been heard above the sound of this music. The natives celebrated
his return by dancing and singing, and crying out, "Here comes our king." Jean de Courtois
hastened to welcome his master, who asked him how everything was going on; he replied, "Sir,
all is going on as well as possible."

Béthencourt's companions stayed with him at the fort of Lancerota; they appeared much pleased
with the country, enjoying the dates and other fruits on the island, "and nothing seemed to
harm them." After they had been a short time at Lancerota, Béthencourt went with them to see
Fortaventura, and here his reception was as warm as it had been at Lancerota, especially from
the islanders and their two kings. The kings supped with them at the fortress of Richeroque,
which Courtois had rebuilt.

Béthencourt announced his intention of conquering Gran Canaria Island, as he had done Lancerota
and Fortaventura; his hope was that his nephew Maciot, whom he had brought with him from France,
would succeed him in the government of these islands, so that the name of Béthencourt might
be perpetuated there. He imparted his project to Courtois, who highly approved of it, and added,
"Sir, when you return to France, I will go with you. I am a bad husband. It is five years since
I saw my wife, and, by my troth, she did not much care about it."

The 6th of October, 1405, was the day fixed for starting for Gran Canaria, but contrary winds
carried the ships towards the African coast, and they passed by Cape Bojador, where Béthencourt
landed. He made an expedition twenty-four miles inland, and seized some natives and a great
number of camels that he took to his vessels. They put as many of the camels as possible on
board, wishing to acclimatize them in the Canary Islands, and the baron set sail again, leaving
Cape Bojador, which he had the honour of seeing thirty years before the Portuguese navigators.

During this voyage from the coast of Africa to Gran Canaria, the three vessels were separated
in stormy weather, one going to Palma, and another to Fortaventura, but finally they all reached
Gran Canaria. This island is sixty miles long and thirty-six miles broad; at the northern end
it is flat, but very hilly towards the south. Firs, dragon-trees, olive, fig, and date-trees
form large forests, and sheep, goats, and wild dogs are found here in large numbers. The soil
is very fertile, and produces two crops of corn every year, and that without any means of improving
it. Its inhabitants form a large body of people, and consider themselves all on an equality.

When Béthencourt had landed he set to work at once to conquer the island. Unfortunately his
Norman soldiers were so proud of their success on the coast of Africa, that they thought they
could conquer this island with its ten thousand natives, with a mere handful of men. Béthencourt
seeing that they were so confident of success, recommended them to be prudent, but they took
no heed of this and bitterly they rued their confidence. After a skirmish, in which they seemed
to have got the better of the islanders, they had left their ranks, when the natives surprised
them, massacring twenty-two of them, including Jean de Courtois and Hannibal, Gadifer's son.

After this sad affair Béthencourt left Gran Canaria and went to try to subdue Palma. The natives
of this island were very clever in slinging stones, rarely missing their aim, and in the encounters
with these islanders many fell on both sides, but more natives than Normans, whose loss, however,
amounted to one hundred.

After six weeks of skirmishing, Béthencourt left Palma, and went to Ferro for three months,
a large island twenty-one miles long and fifteen broad. It is a flat table-land, and large
woods of pine and laurel-trees shade it in many places. The mists, which are frequent, moisten
the soil and make it especially favourable for the cultivation of corn and the vine. Game is
abundant; pigs, goats, and sheep run wild about the country; there are also great lizards in
shape like the iguana of America. The inhabitants both men and women are a very fine race,
healthy, lively, agile and particularly well made, in fact Ferro is one of the pleasantest
islands of the group.

Béthencourt returned to Fortaventura with his ships after conquering Ferro and Palma. This
island is fifty-one miles in length by twenty-four in breadth, and has high mountains as well
as large plains, but its surface is less undulating than that of the other islands. Large streams
of fresh water run through the island; the euphorbia, a deadly poison, grows largely here,
and date and olive-trees are abundant, as well as a plant that is invaluable for dyeing and
whose cultivation would be most remunerative. The coast of Fortaventura has no good harbours
for large vessels, but small ones can anchor there quite safely. It was in this island that
Béthencourt began to make a partition of land to the colonists, and he succeeded in doing it
so evenly that every one was satisfied with his portion. Those colonists whom he had brought
with him were to be exempted from taxes for nine years.

The question of religion, and religious administration could not fail to be of the deepest
interest to so pious a man as Béthencourt, so he resolved to go to Rome and try to obtain a
bishop for this country, who "would order and adorn the Roman Catholic faith." Before setting
out he appointed his nephew Maciot as lieutenant and governor of the islands. Under his orders
two sergeants were to act, and enforce justice; he desired that twice a year news of the colony
should be sent to him in Normandy, and the revenue from Lancerota and Fortaventura was to be
devoted to building two churches. He said to his nephew Maciot, "I give you full authority
in everything to do whatever you think best, and I believe you will do all for my honour and
to my advantage. Follow as nearly as possible Norman and French customs, especially in the
administration of justice. Above all things, try and keep peace and unity among yourselves,
and care for each other as brothers, and specially try that there shall be no rivalry among
the gentlemen; I have given to each one his share and the country is quite large enough for
each to have his own sphere. I can tell you nothing further beyond again impressing the importance
of your all living as good friends together, and then all will be well."

Béthencourt remained three months in Fortaventura and the other islands. He rode about among
the people on his mule, and found many of the natives beginning to speak Norman-French. Maciot
and the other gentlemen accompanied him, he pointing out what was best to be done and the most
honest way of doing it. Then he gave notice that he would set out for Rome on the ensuing 15th
of December. Returning to Lancerota, he remained there till his departure, and ordered all
the gentlemen he had brought with him, the workmen, and the three kings to appear before him
two days before his departure, to tell them what he wished done, and to commend himself and
them to God's protection.

None failed to appear at this meeting; they were all received at the fort on Lancerota, and
sumptuously entertained. When the repast was over, he spoke to them, especially impressing
the duty of obedience to his nephew Maciot upon them, the retention of the fifth of everything
for himself, and also the exercise of all Christian virtues and of fervent love to God. This
done, he chose those who were to accompany him to Rome, and prepared to set out.

His vessel had scarcely set sail when cries and groans were heard on all sides, both Europeans
and natives alike regretting this just master, who they feared would never return to them.
A great number waded into the water, and tried to stop the vessel that carried him away from
them, but the sails were set and Béthencourt was really gone. "May God keep him safe from all
harm," was the utterance of many that day. In a week he was at Seville, from thence he went
to Valladolid, where the king received him very graciously. He related the narrative of his
conquests to the king, and requested from him letters recommending him to the Pope, that he
might have a bishop appointed for the islands. The king gave him the letters, and loaded him
with gifts, and then Béthencourt set out for Rome with a numerous retinue.

He remained three weeks in the eternal city, and was admitted to kiss Pope Innocent VII.'s
foot, who complimented him on his having made so many proselytes to the Christian faith, and
on his bravery in having ventured so far from his native country. When the bulls were prepared
as Béthencourt had requested, and Albert des Maisons was appointed Bishop of the Canary Islands,
the Norman took leave of the Pope after receiving his blessing.

The new prelate took leave of Béthencourt, and set out at once for his diocese. He went by
way of Spain, taking with him some letters from Béthencourt to the king. Then he set sail for
Fortaventura and arrived there without any obstacle. Maciot gave him a cordial reception, and
the bishop at once began to organize his diocese, governing with gentleness and courtesy, preaching
now in one island, now in another, and offering up public prayers for Béthencourt's safety.
Maciot was universally beloved, but especially by the natives. This happy, peaceful time only
lasted for five years, for later on, Maciot began to abuse his unlimited power, and levied
such heavy exactions that he was obliged to fly the country to save his life.

Béthencourt after leaving Rome went to Florence and to Paris, and then to his own chateau,
where a great number of people came to pay their respects to the king of the Canary Islands,
and if on his return the first time he was much thought of, his reception this second time
far exceeded it. Béthencourt established himself at Grainville; although he was an old man,
his wife was still young. He had frequent accounts from Maciot of his beloved islands, and
he hoped one day to return to his kingdom, but God willed otherwise. One day in the year 1425
he was seized with what proved to be fatal illness; he was aware that the end was near; and
after making his will and receiving the last sacraments of the church he passed away. "May
God keep him and pardon his sins," says the narrative of his life; "he is buried in the church
of Grainville la Teinturière, in front of the high altar."

The year 1492 is an era in geographical annals. It is the date of the discovery of America.
The genius of one man was fated to complete the terrestrial globe, and to show the truth of
Gagliuffi's saying,--

    Unus erat mundus; duo sint, ait iste; fuere.

The old world was to be entrusted with the moral and political education of the new. Was it
equal to the task, with its ideas still limited, its tendencies still semi-barbarous, and its
bitter religious animosities? We must leave the answer to these questions to the facts that follow.

Between the year 1405, when Béthencourt had just accomplished the colonization of the Canary
Islands, and the year 1492, what had taken place? We will give a short sketch of the geographical
enterprise of the intervening years. A considerable impetus had been given to science by the
Arabs (who were soon to be expelled from Spain), and had spread throughout the peninsula. In
all the ports, but more especially in those of Portugal, there was much talk of the continent
of Africa, and the rich and wonderful countries beyond the sea. "A thousand anecdotes," says
Michelet, "stimulated curiosity, valour and avarice, every one wishing to see these mysterious
countries where monsters abounded and gold was scattered over the surface of the land." A young
prince, Don Henry, duke of Viseu, third son of John I., who was very fond of the study of astronomy
and geography, exercised a considerable influence over his contemporaries; it is to him that
Portugal owes her colonial power and wealth and the expeditions so repeatedly made, which were
vividly described, and their results spoken of as so wonderful, that they may have aided in
awakening Columbus' love of adventure. Don Henry had an observatory built in the southern part
of the province of Algarve, at Sagres, commanding a most splendid view over the sea, and seeming
as though it must have been placed there to seek for some unknown land; he also established
a naval college, where learned geographers traced correct maps and taught the use of the mariner's
compass. The young prince surrounded himself with learned men, and especially gathered all
the information he could as to the possibility of circumnavigating Africa, and thus reaching
India. Though he had never taken part in any maritime expedition, his encouragement and care
for seamen gave him the soubriquet of "the Navigator," by which name he is known in history.
Two gentlemen belonging to Don Henry's court, Juan Gonzales Zarco, and Tristram Vaz Teixeira
had passed Cape Nun, the terror of ancient navigators, when they were carried out to sea and
passed near an island to which they gave the name of Porto-Santo. Sometime afterwards, as they
were sailing towards a black point that remained on the horizon, they came to a large island
covered with splendid forests; this was Madeira.

In 1433, Cape Bojador, which had for long been such a difficulty to navigators, was first doubled
by the two Portuguese sailors, Gillianès and Gonzalès Baldaya, who passed more than forty leagues
beyond it.

Encouraged by their example, Antonio Gonzalès, and Nuño Tristram, in 1441, sailed as far as
Cape Blanco, "a feat," says Faria y Souza "that is generally looked upon as being little short
of the labours of Hercules," and they brought back with them to Lisbon some gold-dust taken
from the Rio del Ouro. In a second voyage Tristram noticed some of the Cape de Verd Islands,
and went as far south as Sierra Leone. In the course of this expedition, he bought from some
Moors off the coast of Guinea, ten negroes, whom he took back with him to Lisbon and parted
with for a very high price, they having excited great curiosity. This was the origin of the
slave-trade in Europe, which for the next 400 years robbed Africa of so many of her people,
and was a disgrace to humanity.

In 1441, Cada Mosto doubled Cape Verd, and explored a part of the coast below it. About 1446,
the Portuguese, advancing further into the open sea than their predecessors, came upon the
group of the Azores. From this time all fear vanished, for the formidable line had been passed,
beyond which the air was said to scorch like fire; expeditions succeeded each other without
intermission, and each brought home accounts of newly-discovered regions. It seemed as if the
African continent was really endless, for the further they advanced towards the south, the
further the cape they sought appeared to recede. Some little time before this King John II.
had added the title of Seigneur of Guinea to his other titles, and to the discovery of Congo
had been added that of some stars in the southern hemisphere hitherto unknown, when Diogo Cam,
in three successive voyages, went further south than any preceding navigator, and bore away
from Diaz the honour of being the discoverer of the southern point of the African continent.
This cape is called Cape Cross, and here he raised a monument called a padrao or padron in
memory of his discovery, which is still standing. On his way back, he visited the King of Congo
in his capital, and took back with him an ambassador and numerous suite of natives, who were
all baptized, and taught the elements of the Christian religion, which they were to propagate
on their return to Congo.

A short time after Diogo Cam's return in the month of August, 1487, three caravels left the
Tagus under the command of Bartholomew Diaz, a gentleman attached to the king's household,
and an old sailor on the Guinea seas. He had an experienced mariner under him, and the smallest
of the three vessels freighted with provisions, was commanded by his brother Pedro Diaz. We
have no record of the earlier part of this expedition; we only know, from Joao de Barros, to
whom we owe nearly all we learn of Portuguese navigation, that beyond Congo he followed the
coast for some distance, and came to an anchorage that he named "Das Voltas" on account of
the manner in which he had to tack to reach it, and there he left the smallest of the caravels
under the care of nine sailors. After having been detained here five days by stress of weather,
Diaz stood out to sea, and took a southerly course, but for thirteen days his vessels were
tossed hither and thither by the tempest.

As he went further south the temperature fell and the air became very cold; at last the fury
of the elements abated, and Diaz took an easterly course hoping to sight the land, but after
several days had passed, and being in about 42 degrees south latitude, he anchored in the bay
"dos Vaquieros," so named from the numbers of horned animals and shepherds, who fled inland
at the sight of the two vessels.

At this time Diaz was about 120 miles east of the Cape of Good Hope, which he had doubled without
seeing it. They then went to Sam Braz (now Mossel) bay, and coasted as far as Algoa bay and
to an island called Da Cruz where they set up a padrao. But here the crews being much discouraged
by the dangers they had passed through, and feeling much the scarcity and bad quality of the
provisions, refused to go any farther. "Besides," they said, "as the land is now on our left,
let us go back and see the Cape, which we have doubled without knowing it."

Diaz called a council, and decided that they should go forwards in a north-easterly direction
for two or three days longer. We owe it to his firmness of purpose that he was able to reach
a river, 75 miles from Da Cruz that he called Rio Infante, but then the crew refusing to go
farther, Diaz was obliged to return to Europe. Barros says, "When Diaz left the pillar that
he had erected, it was with such sorrow and so much bitterness, that it seemed almost as though
he were leaving an exiled son, and especially when he thought of all the dangers that he and
his companions had passed through, and the long distance which they had come with only this
memorial as a remembrance: it was indeed painful to break off when the task was but half completed."
At last they saw the Cape of Good Hope, or as Diaz and his followers called it then, the "Cape
of Torments," in remembrance of all the storms and tempests they had passed through before
they could double it. With the foresight which so often accompanies genius, John II. substituted
for the "Cape of Torments," the name of the "Cape of Good Hope," for he saw that now the route
to India was open at last, and his vast plans for the extension of the commerce and influence
of his country were about to be realized.

On the 24th of August, 1488, Diaz returned to Angra das Voltas, where he had left his smallest
caravel. He found six of his nine men dead, and the seventh was so overcome with joy at seeing
his companions again that he died also. No particular incident marked the voyage home; they
reached Lisbon in December, 1488, after staying at Benin, where they traded, and at La Mina
to receive the money gained by the commerce of the colony.

It is strange but true, that Diaz not only received no reward of any kind for this voyage which
had been so successful, but he seemed to be treated rather as though he had disgraced himself,
for he was not employed again for ten years. More than this the command of the expedition that
was sent to double the cape which Diaz had discovered, was given to Vasco da Gama, and Diaz
was only to accompany it to La Mina holding a subordinate position. He was to hear of the marvellous
campaign of his successful rival in India, and to see what an effect such an event would have
upon the destiny of his country.

He took part in Cabral's expedition which discovered Brazil, but he had not the pleasure of
seeing the shores to which he had been the pioneer, for the fleet had only just left the American
shore, when a fearful storm arose; four vessels sank, and among them the one that Diaz commanded.
It is in allusion to his sad fate that Camoens puts the following prediction into the mouth
of Adamastor, the spirit of the Cape of Tempests. "I will make a terrible example of the first
fleet that shall pass near these rocks, and I will wreak my vengeance on him who first comes
to brave me in my dwelling."

In fact it was only in 1497, maybe five years after the discovery of America, that the southern
point of Africa was passed by Vasco da Gama, and it may be affirmed that if this latter had
preceded Columbus, the discovery of the new continent might have been delayed for several centuries.
The navigators of this period were very timorous, and did not dare to sail out into mid-ocean;
not liking to venture upon seas that were but little known, they always followed the coast-line
of Africa, rather than go further from land. If the Cape of Tempests had been doubled, the
sailors would have gone by this route to India, and none would have thought of going to the
"Land of Spices," that is to say Asia, by venturing across the Atlantic. Who, in fact, would
have thought of seeking for the east by the route to the west? But in truth this was the great
idea of that day, for Cooley says, "The principal object of Portuguese maritime enterprise
in the fifteenth century was to search for a passage to India by the Ocean." The most learned
men had not gone so far as to imagine the existence of another continent to complete the equilibrium
and balance of the terrestrial globe. Some parts of the American continent had been already
discovered, for an Italian navigator Sebastian Cabot had landed on Labrador in 1487, and the
Scandinavians had certainly disembarked on this unknown land. The colonists of Greenland, too
had explored Winland, but so little disposition was there at this time to believe in the existence
of a new world, that Greenland, Winland, and Labrador were all thought to be a continuation
of the European continent.

The main question before the navigators of the fifteenth century was the opening up of an easier
communication with the shores of Asia. The route to India, China, and Japan (countries already
known through the wonderful narrative of Marco Polo), viâ, Asia Minor, Persia, and Tartary,
was long and dangerous. The transport of goods was too difficult and costly for these "ways
terrestrial" ever to become roads for commerce. A more practicable means of communication must
be found. Thus all the dwellers on the coasts, from England to Spain, as well as the people
living on the shores of the Mediterranean, seeing the great Atlantic ocean open to their vessels,
began to inquire, whether indeed this new route might not conduct them to the shores of Asia.

The sphericity of the Globe being established, this reasoning was correct, for going always
westward, the traveller must necessarily at last reach the east, and as to the route across
the ocean, it would certainly be open. Who could, indeed, have suspected the existence of an
obstacle 9750 miles in length, lying between Europe and Asia, and called America?

We must observe also that the scientific men of the Middle Ages believed that the shores of
Asia were not more than 6000 miles distant from those of Europe. Aristotle supposed the terrestrial
globe to be smaller than it really is. Seneca said "How far is it from the shores of Spain
to India? A very few days' sail, should the wind be favourable." This was also the opinion
of Strabo. So it seemed that the route between Europe and Asia must be short, and there being
such places for ships to touch at as the Azores and Antilles, of which the existence was known
in the fifteenth century, the transoceanic communication promised not to be difficult. This
popular error as to distance had the happy effect of inducing navigators to try to cross the
Atlantic, a feat which, had they been aware of the 15,000 miles of ocean separating Europe
from Asia, they would scarcely have dared to attempt.

We must in justice allow that certain facts gave, or seemed to give, reason to the partisans
of Aristotle and Strabo for their belief in the proximity of the eastern shores. Thus, a pilot
in the service of the King of Portugal, while sailing at 1350 miles' distance from Cape St.
Vincent, the south-western point of the Portuguese province of Algarve, met with a piece of
wood ornamented with ancient sculptures, which he considered must have come from a continent
not far off. Again, some fishermen had found near the island of Madeira, a sculptured post
and some bamboos, which in shape resembled those found in India. The inhabitants of the Azores
also, often picked up gigantic pine-trees, of an unknown species, and one day two human bodies
were cast upon their shores, "corpses with broad faces," says the chronicler Herrera, "and
not resembling Christians."

These various facts tended to inflame imagination. As in the fifteenth century men had no knowledge
of that great Gulf-stream, which, in nearing the European coasts, brings with it waifs and
strays from America, so they could only imagine that these various débris must come from Asia.
Therefore, they argued, Asia could not be far off, and the communication between these two
extremes of the old continent must be easy. One point must be clearly borne in mind, no geographer
of this period had any notion of the existence of a new world; it was not even a desire of
adding to geographical knowledge which led to the exploration of the western route. It was
the men of commerce who were the leaders in this movement, and who first undertook to cross
the Atlantic. Their only thought was of traffic, and of carrying it on by the shortest road.

