The Church, as an excuse for retaining this book as a part of "Holy Scriptures," interprets
the Song as expressive of Christ's love for the Church; but that is rather far-fetched, and
unworthy the character of the ideal Jesus. The most rational view to take of the Song is, it
was that of a luxurious king to the women of his seraglio.

E. C. S.

BOOKS OF ISAIAH AND DANIEL, MICAH AND MALACHI.

ISAIAH.

The closing books, of the Old Testament make but little mention of women as illustrating individual
characteristics. The ideal woman is used more as a standard of comparison for good and for
evil, the good woman representing the elements of success in building up the family, the tribe,
the nation, as a devout worshiper of the God of Israel; the wicked woman, the elements of destruction
in the downfall of great cities and nations. As woman is chosen to represent the extremes of
human conditions she has no special reason to complain.

The Prophets sum up the graces of the "daughters of men" in the following texts:

Isaiah iii.

Before the sacred canon of the Old Testament was written there were Prophets who took the place
of Bibles to the Church. It is said that God himself spake to the children of Israel from the
top of Mount Sinai, but that it was so terrible they entreated the Lord ever after to speak
to them through men. So ever after he did communicate with them through Prophets and Angels.
Isaiah was of the royal family; he was nephew to King Uzziah. The Prophet in the above texts
reproves and warns the daughters of Zion and tells them of their faults. He does not like their
style of walking, which from the description must have been much like the mincing gait of some
women to-day.

The Prophet expressly vouches God's authority for what he said concerning their manners and
elaborate ornamentation, lest they should be offended with his criticisms. If the Prophets
could visit our stores and see all the fashions there are to tempt the daughters of to-day,
they would declaim against our frivolities on the very doorsteps, and in view of the Easter
bonnets, at the entrance to our churches. The badges which our young women wear as members
of societies, pinned in rows on broad ribbons, the earrings, the bangles, the big sleeves,
the bonnets trimmed with osprey feathers, answer to the crisping pins, the wimples, the nose
jewels, the tablets, the chains, the bracelets, the mufflers, the veils, the glasses and the
girdles of the daughters of Zion. If the Prophets, instead of the French milliners and dressmakers,
could supervise the toilets of our women, they would dress in far better taste.

DANIEL.

The name of this Prophet in Hebrew was "Da##il,"[FN#5] which signifies "the judgment of God."
His Chaldean name was Bethshazzai. He was of the tribe of Judah of the royal family. Josephus
calls him one of the greatest of the Prophets.

[FN#5]  Redactor's note. Text was illegible.

6 Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that his knees
smote one against another.

10 Now the queen came into the banquet house, and said, O king, live forever: let not thy thoughts
trouble thee.

13 Then was Daniel brought in; and he said, I will read the writing unto the king.

27 Tekel; Thou Are Weighed In The Balance, And Art Found Wanting.

Historians say that Cyrus was at this time besieging the city and knew of this feast, and took
this opportunity to make his attack and to slay the king.

In the midst of the consternation at the feast the queen entered to advise Belshazzar. It is
supposed that this queen was the widow of the evil Merodach, and was that famous Nitocris whom
Herodotus mentions as a woman of extraordinary prudence and wisdom. She was not present at
the feast, as were the king's wives and concubines. It was not agreeable to her age and gravity
to dissipate at night; but tidings of the consternation in the banquet hall were brought to
her, so that she came and entreated him not to be discouraged by the incapacity of the wise
men to solve the riddle; for there was a man in his kingdom who had more than once helped his
father in emergencies and would no doubt advise him. She could not read the writing herself;
but she said, let the Prophet Daniel be called. The account she gives of the respect Nebuchadnezzar
had for him, for his insight into the deepest mysteries, and of his goodness and wisdom, moved
the king to summon Daniel into his presence.

Daniel was now near ninety years of age, and for a long time had not been in court circles;
but the queen dowager remembered him in the court of the king's father. She reminded her son
of the high esteem in which he was held by his father. The interpretation which Daniel gave
of these mystic characters was far from easing the king of his fears. Daniel being in years,
and Belshazzar still young, he took greater liberty in dealing plainly with him than he had
with his father. He read the warning as written on the wall:

"Thou hast been weighed in the balance and found wanting, and thy kingdom is divided and rent
from thee."

Although the exposition of the handwriting was most discouraging, yet the king kept his promise,
and put on Daniel the scarlet gown and the gold chain.

MICAH.

Micah ii.

9 The women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant houses; from their children have
ye taken away my glory forever.

Micah vii.

6 For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter
in law against her mother in law.

Here the Israelites are rebuked for their cruel treatment of their own people, robbing widows
and selling children into slavery. Family life as well as public affairs seems to have become
unsettled. The contempt and the violation of the laws of domestic duties are a sad symptom
of universal corruption.

MALACHI.

Malachi ii.

11 Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved, and hath married the daughter
of a strange god.

14 Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy
youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of
thy covenant.

These Israelites were always violating the national law which forbade them to marry strange
women. The corruption of the nation began, say the historians, with the intermarriage of the
"sons of God" with the "daughters of men," meaning, I suppose, those of the tribes who had
a different religion, "He that marries a heathen woman is as if he made himself son-in-law
to an idol." They put away the wives of their own nation, and, as was the fashion at one time,
married those of other nations. This spoiled the lives of the daughters of Israel. They were
uncertain as to their social relations, family, right to their children, and support in their
old age, as a paper of divorce could be given to them at any time. The denunciations of the
Prophets had no great weight in matters where strong feeling and sound judgment conflicted.

Charming women, of the Hittites and of the Midianites, with their novel dress, manners and
conversation, attracted the men of Israel. They could not resist the temptation. When the strongest
man and the wisest one are alike led captive, there is no significance in calling woman--"the
weaker sex."

Though few women appear in the closing tragedies of the Old Testament, yet the idiosyncrasies
of the sex are constantly used to point a moral or to condemn a sin.

E. C. S.

THE KABBALAH.

