"We want to have a hearing before the city government," said he, "and we have secured the aid
of Mr. Greene Satchel to present the case. Won't you give us your name to the petition, as
one of the officers? No expense to you; some wealthy friends will take care of that. We don't
desire to tax a man who lives on a salary, and especially one who devotes so much of his time
and money to charity."

"Thank you for your consideration," said Mr. Sandford, signing his name in a fair round hand.

Once more the friends were left alone, and Monroe proceeded,--

"I was going on to say that perhaps you might know some chance for a safe investment."

Mr. Sandford appeared thoughtful for a moment.

"Yes,--I think I may find a good opportunity; seven per cent., possibly eight."

"Excellent!" said Monroe.

There was another interruption. A tall, stately person entered the office, wearing a suit of
rather antique fashion, apparently verging on sixty years, yet with a clear, smooth skin, and
a bright, steady eye. It was the Honorable Charles Wyndham, the representative of an ancient
family, and beyond question one of the most eminent men in the city. Mr. Sandford might have
been secretly elated at the honor of this visit, but he rose with a tranquil face and calmly
bade Mr. Wyndham good morning.

"My young friend," began the great man, "I am happy to see you looking so well this morning.
I have not come to put any new burdens on your patient shoulders; we all know your services
and your sacrifices. This time we have a little recompense,--if, indeed, acts of beneficence
are not their own reward. The Board are to have a social meeting at my house to-night, to make
arrangements for the anniversary; and we think a frugal collation will not be amiss for those
who have worked for the Society so freely and faithfully."

Mr. Sandford softly rubbed his white hands and bowed with a deprecatory smile.

"I know your modesty," said Mr. Wyndham, "and will spare you further compliment. Your accounts
are ready, I presume? I intend to propose to the Board, that, as we have a surplus, you shall
receive a substantial sum for your disinterested services."

They were standing near together, leaning on a tall mahogany desk, and the look of benevolent
interest on one side, and of graceful humility on the other, was touching to see. Mr. Sandford
laid his hand softly on his distinguished friend's shoulder, and begged him not to insist upon
payment for services he had been only too happy to render.

"We won't talk about that now; and I must not detain you longer from business. Good morning!"
And with the stateliest of bows, and a most gracious smile, the Honorable Mr. Wyndham retreated
through the glass door.

When Mr. Sandford had bowed the visitor out, he returned to Monroe with an expression of weariness
on his handsome face. "So many affairs to think of! so many people to see! Really, it is becoming
vexatious. I believe I shall turn hunks, and get a reputation for downright stinginess."

"But your visitors are pleasant people," said Monroe,--"and the last, certainly, was a man
whom most men think it an honor to know."

"You mean Wyndham. Oh, yes, Wyndham is a good fellow; a little prosy sometimes, but means well.
We endure the Dons, you know, if they are slow."

Monroe thought his friend hardly respectful to the head of the Wyndham family, but set it down
as an awkward attempt at being facetious.

"Well, about that money of yours?" said Sandford.

"I left it, as a loan on call, at Danforth's. But how do you propose to invest it?"

"I haven't fully made up my mind. Perhaps it is best you should not know. I will guaranty you
eight per cent., and agree to return the principal on thirty days' notice. So you can try,
meanwhile, and see if you can do better."

Monroe agreed to the proposal, and drew a check on the broker for the amount, for which Sandford
signed a note, payable thirty days after presentation. The friends now separated, and Monroe
went to his warehouse.

Stockholders began to come to look over the morning papers, and chat about the news, the stocks,
and the degeneracy of the times. What a club is to an idle man of fashion,--what a sewing-society
is to a scandal-loving woman,--what a billiard-room is to a man about town,--what the Athenæum
is to the sober and steadfast bibliolater,--that is the Insurance Office to the retired merchant,
bald and spectacled, who wanders like a ghost among the scenes of his former activity. The
comfortable chairs, and in winter the social fires in open grates,--the slow-going and respectable
newspapers, the pleasant view of State Street, and, above all, the authoritative disposition
of public affairs upon the soundest mercantile principles of profit and loss,--all these constitute
an attraction which no well-brought-up Bostonian, who has money to buy shares, cares to resist,
at least until the increasing size of his buckskin shoes renders locomotion difficult.

To all these solid men Mr. Sandford gave a hearty good-morning, and a frank, cheerful smile.
They took up the journals and looked over the telegraphic dispatches, thinking, as they were
wont, that the old Vortex was lucky, above all Companies, in its honest, affable, and intelligent
Secretary.

Mr. Sandford retired to his private room and looked hastily at his morning letters; but his
mind did not seem to be occupied with the business before him. He rang the bell for the office-boy.
"Tom," said he, "go and ask Mr. Fletcher to step down here a minute." He mused after the boy
left, tapping his fingers on the table to the time of a familiar air. "If I can keep Fletcher
from dabbling in stocks, I shall make a good thing of this. I shall keep a close watch on him.
To manage men, there is nothing like knowing how to go to work at them. ALL the fools are jack-a-dandies,
and one has only to find where the strings hang to make them dance as he will. I have Fletcher
fast. I heard a fellow talking about taming a man, Rarey-fashion, by holding out a pole to
him with a bunch of flowers. Pooh! The best thing is a bit of paper with a court seal at the
corner, stuck on the end of a constable's staff."

Mr. Fletcher entered presently,--the office where he was employed being only a few doors off.
He was a slender young man, with strikingly regular features and delicate complexion; his mobile
mouth was covered by a fringy moustache, and his small keen eyes were restless to a painful
degree. The sudden summons appeared to have flustered him; for his eyes danced more than usual,
giving him the startled and perplexed look of a hunted animal at bay. He was speedily reassured
by Sandford's bland voice and encouraging smile.

"A new opening, Fletcher,--a 'pocket,' as the Californians call it. Is there any chance to
operate? Just look about. I have the funds ready. Something safe, and fat, too."

"Plenty of chances to those who look for them," replied Fletcher. "The men who are hard up
are the best customers; they will stand a good slice off; and if a man is sharp, he can deal
as safely with them as with the A 1s, who turn up their noses at seven per cent."

"You understand, I see."

"I think I ought. Papyrus, only yesterday, was asking if anything could be done for him,--about
fifteen hundred; offers Sandbag's note with only thirty days to run. The note was of no use
to him, because the banks require two names, and his own isn't worth a straw. But Sandbag is good."

"We'll take it. About a hundred off?"

Fletcher nodded.

"I've plenty more to invest, Fletcher. Let me know if you see any paper worth buying."

Fletcher nodded again, but looked expectant, much like a dog (not wishing to degrade him by
the comparison) waiting with longing eyes while his master eats his morning mutton-chop.

"Fletcher," said Sandford, "I'll make this an object to you. I don't mind giving you five dollars,
as soon as we have Papyrus's indorsement on the note. And, speaking of the indorsement, let
him sign his name, and then bring me the note. I wish to put on the name of the person to whose
order it is to be payable."

"Then it is on the account"--

"Of whom it may concern," broke in Sandford. "Don't stand with your mouth open. That is my affair."

"But if you pay me only five dollars"--

"That is so much clear gain to you. Do you suppose that we--my backer and I--shall run the
risk for nothing? Good morning! Attend to your own affairs at Danforth's properly. Don't burn
your fingers with any new experiments. There's a crash coming and stocks will fall. Good morning!"

The Secretary looked relieved when Fletcher closed the door, and speedily dispatched the necessary
letters and orders for the Company. Then leaving the affairs of the Vortex in the hands of
his clerk, he strolled out for his usual lunch. Wherever he walked, he was met with smiles
and greetings of respect. He turned into an alley, entered an eating-house, and took his place
at a table; he ordered and ate his lunch, and then left, with a nod towards the counter. The
landlord, who began on credit, expected no pay from the man who procured him money accommodations.
No waiter had ever seen a sixpence from his purse. How should a man be expected to pay, who
spent his substance and his time so freely in charity?

CHAPTER III.

CONTAINING SOME CONFESSIONS NOT INTENDED FOR THE PUBLIC EAR.

Miss Marcia Sandford, after breakfast, was sitting in her chamber with her widowed sister-in-law,
who had come to spend a few months with her late husband's family. The widow no longer wore
the roses of youth, but was yet on friendly terms with Time; indeed, so quietly had their annual
settlements passed off, that it would have puzzled any one not in their confidence to tell
how the account stood. The simplicity of her dress, the chastened look, and the sobriety of
phrase, of which her recent affliction was the cause, might have hinted at thirty-five; but
when her clear, placid eye was turned upon you, and you saw the delicate flush deepening or
vanishing upon a smooth cheek, and noted the changeful expression that hovered like a spiritual
presence around her mouth, it would have been treason to think of a day beyond twenty. She
had known but little of Marcia, and that little had shown her only as a lover of dress and
of admiration, besides being capricious to a degree unusual even in a spoiled favorite.

A musical soirée was under consideration. Marcia was a proficient upon the harp and piano,
and, as she had heard that Mr. Greenleaf, the handsome painter, as she called him, was a fine
singer, she determined to practise some operatic duets with him, that should move all her musical
friends to envy.

"You seem to have taken a strong liking to this Mr. Greenleaf, Marcia."

"Yes, Lydia," replied the beauty, "I do like him, exceedingly,--what I have seen of him. He
will do--for a month or so. People are frequently quite charming at first, like fresh bouquets,--but
dull and tame enough when the dew is off."

"But you can't have a new admirer, as you have fresh flowers, every day."

"That's true, and pity 'tis, 'tis true."

"What a female Bluebeard you are!"

"Wouldn't you, now, like to meet some new, delightful person every day? Consider how prosaic
a man is, after you know all about him."

"I always find something new in a man really worth knowing."

"Do you? I wish I could. I always look them through as I used to my toys. I never cared for
my 'crying babies,' after I found out what made them squeak."

"I am afraid the comparison will hold out farther than you intended. You were never satisfied
with your toys until you had not only explored their machinery, but smashed them into the bargain."

"But men stand it better than toys. If they get smashed, as you say, they heal wonderfully.
I sometimes think, that, like lobsters, they can repair their injuries by new growths,--fresh
claws, and fins, and feelers."

"Complimentary, truly! but I notice that you don't speak of vital organs."

"Hearts, you mean, I suppose. That is an obsolete idea,--a relic of superstition."

"But how many of these broken idols have you thrown aside, Marcia? Have you kept account?"

"Dear me! no! Why should I?"

"It would be interesting, I think, to a student of social statistics, to know how many engagements
there are to one marriage, how many offers to one engagement, how many flirtations to one offer,
and how many tender advances to one flirtation."

"Oh, Lydia! Love and Arithmetic! they never went together. I leave all calculations to my wise
and busy brother. I like to wander like a hummingbird, that keeps no account of the flowercups
it has sipped out of."

"Let us reckon. I can help you, perhaps. I have heard you talk of half a dozen. There is Colonel
Langford,--one."

"Handsome, proud, and shallow. Let him go!"

"There is Lieutenant Allen,--two."

"Fierce, impatient, and exacting. He can go also. I had as lief be loved by a lion."

"Next is Mr. Lanman,--three."

"Wily, plausible, passionate, and treacherous. He is only a cat in a new sphere of existence."

"Then there is Denims,--I am not sure about the order,--four."

"Rich, vain, and stupid;--there never was such a dolt."

"But you kept him for a longer time than usual."

"Yes, rather; but he was too dull to understand my ironical compliments, or to resent my studied
neglect."

"Jaunegant makes five."

"Oh, the precious crony of my brother Charles! The best specimen of the dandy race. The man
who gives so much love to himself and his clothes, that he has none to spare for any one else.
But, Lydia, this is tedious; we shall never get through at this rate. Besides," with a mock-sentimental
air, "you have not been here long enough to know the melancholy history,--to count the wrecks
that are strewn along the coast, where the Siren resorts. Let me take up the list. Corning,
who really loved me, (six,) and went to sea to cure the heart-ache. I heard of him in State
Street a month ago,--with a blue shirt and leather belt, and chewing a piece of tobacco as
large as his thumb. He seemed happy as a king."

"I saw a kind of tobacco advertised as 'The Solace';--the name was given by some disappointed
swain, I suppose."

"Probably," said Marcia, smiling. "Then there was Outrack, (seven,) who was so furious at the
refusal, that he immediately married the gay Miss Flutter Budget, forty-five, short, stout,
and fifty thousand dollars,--he twenty-six, tall, slender, and some distant expectations. I
heard him, at a party, call her 'Dear'!"

"I don't think you get on any faster than I did. We shall have to finish the tour of the portrait-gallery
another day."

"You are not tired? I wanted to tell you of several more. Yet I don't know why I should. I
declare to you seriously, that I never before mentioned the names of these persons in this
way, nor referred to them as rejected lovers."

"I have no doubt of it. It has seemed like a fresh, spontaneous confession."

"There is some magic about you, Sister Lydia. You invite confidence; or rather, you seem to
be like one of those chemical agents that penetrate everything; there's no resisting you. Don't
protest. I know what you would say. It isn't your curiosity. You are no Paulina Pry; if you
were, precious little you would get from me."

"But, Marcia, let me return a moment to what you were saying. Did the reason never occur to
you, why you so soon become tired of your admirers? You see through them, you say. Is it not
possible that a lady who has the reputation of caprice,--a flirt, as the world is apt to call
her,--though ever so brilliant, witty, and accomplished, may not attract the kind of men that
can bear scrutiny, but only the butterfly race, fit for a brief acquaintance? Believe me, Marcia,
there is a reason for everything, and, with all your beauty and fascination, you must yourself
have the element of constancy, to win the admiration of the best and worthiest men."

"So, you are going to preach?" said Marcia, rather crestfallen.

"No, I don't preach. But what I see, I ought to tell you; I should not be a good sister otherwise."

"I'll think about it. But now for the musical party. I mean to send for Mr. Greenleaf, to practise
some songs and duets. He is not a butterfly, I am sure."

"But, Marcia, is it well, is it right, for you to try to fascinate this new friend of yours,
unless you feel something more than a transient interest in him?"

"How can I tell what interest I shall feel in him, until I know him better?"

"But you know his circumstances and his prospects. You are not the woman to marry a poor painter.
You have too many wants; or rather, you have become accustomed to luxuries that now seem to
be necessaries."

"True, I haven't the romance for love in a cottage. But a painter is not necessarily a bad
match; if he doesn't become rich, he may be distinguished. And besides, no one knows what will
happen from the beginning of an acquaintance. We will enjoy the sunshine of to-day; and if
to-morrow brings a darker sky, we must console ourselves as we can."

"What an Epicurean! Well, Marcia, you are not a child; you must act for yourself."

Marcia made no reply, but sat down to her desk to write a note; and her sister-in-law soon
after went to her own room.

During all this conversation, Mrs. Sandford was struck by the tone which the beautiful coquette
assumed. Her words were aptly chosen, her sentences smoothly constructed; she never hesitated;
and there was an ever-present air of consciousness, that left no conviction of sincerity. Whether
she uttered sentiments of affection, or sharp criticism upon character, there was the same
level flow of language, the same nicely modulated intonation. There was no flash of enthusiasm,
none of those outbursts in which the hearer feels sure that the heart has spoken. Mrs. Sandford
was thoroughly puzzled. Marcia had never been otherwise than kind; in fact; she seemed to be
studiously careful of the feelings of others, except when her position as reigning belle made
it necessary to cut a dangler. This methodical speech and unruffled grace of manner might be
only the result of discipline. Truth and honesty might exist as well under this artificial
exterior as in a more impulsive nature. But the world generally thinks that whoever habitually
wears a smiling mask has some secret end to serve thereby. "I like this painter, Greenleaf,"
she soliloquized, "and I mean to look out for him. I am persuaded that Marcia would never marry
him; and I think he is too sensitive, too manly, to be a fit subject for her experiments."

CHAPTER IV.

CONCERNING CONSTANCY AND THE AFFINITIES.

"A Musical soirée? Famous, my boy!" said Easelmann, as he sat, smoking as usual, in his fourth-story
atelier with Greenleaf, watching the sun go down. "Making progress, I see. You have nothing
to do; the affair will take care of itself."

"What affair?"

"Don't be stupid (puff). Your affair with Miss Sandford (puff). There's a wonderful charm in
music (puff). Two such young people might fall in love, to be sure, without singing together
(puff). But music is the true aqua regia; it dissolves all into its own essence. A piano and
a tenor voice will do more than a siege of months, though aided by a battery of bouquets."

"How you run on! I have called twice,--once with you, and the second time by the lady's invitation.
Besides, I told you--indiscreetly, I am afraid--that I am really engaged to be married."

"Oh, yes, I have not forgotten the touching story (puff); but we get over all things, even
such passions as yours. We are plants, that thrive very well for a while in the pots we sprouted
in, but after a time we must have a change of soil."

"I don't think we outgrow affection, honor, truth."

"That is all very pretty; but our ideas of honor and truth are apt to change."

"I don't believe you are half so bad a fellow, Easelmann, as you would have me think. You utter
abominable sentiments, but you behave as well as other people--nearly."

"Thank you. But listen a moment. (Laying down his pipe.) Do you have the same tastes you had
at eighteen? I don't refer to the bumpkins with whom you played when a boy, and who, now that
you have outgrown them, look enviously askance at you. I don't care to dwell on your literary
tastes,--how you have outgrown Moore and Festus-Bailey, and are fast getting through Byron.
I won't pose you, by showing how your ideas in Art have changed,--what new views you have of
life, society;--but think of your ideas of womanly, or rather, girlish beauty at different
ages. By Jove, I should like to see your innamoratas arranged in chronological order!"

"It would be a curious and instructive spectacle."

"You may well say that! Let me sketch a few of them."

"I think I could do it better."

"No, every man thinks his own experience peculiar; but life has a wonderful sameness, after
all. Besides, you would flatter the portraits. Not to begin too early, and without being particular
about names, there was, first, Amanda, aged fourteen; face circular, cheeks cranberry, eyes
hazel, hair brown and wavy, awkward when spoken to, and agreeable only in an osculatory way.
Now, being twenty-five, she is married, has two children, is growing stout, and always refers
to her lord and master as 'He,' never by any accident pronouncing his name. Second, Julia;
sixteen, flaxen-haired, lithe, not ungraceful, self-possessed, and perhaps a little pert. She
is unmarried; but, having fed her mind with no more solid aliment than country gossip, no sensible
man could talk to her five minutes. Third, Laura; eighteen, black hair, with sharp outlines
on the temples, eyes heavily shaded and coquettishly managed, jewelry more abundant than elegant,
repeats poetry by the page, keeps a scrap-book, and writes endless letters to her female friends.
She is still romantic, but has learned something from experience,--is not so impressible as
when you knew her. I won't stop to sketch the pale poetess, nor the dancing hoyden, nor the
sweet blue-eyed creature that lisped, nor the mature and dangerously-charming widow that caused
some perturbations in your regular orbit.

"Now, my dear fellow," Easelmann continued, "you fancied that your whole existence depended
upon the hazel or the blue or the black eyes, in turn; but at this time you could see their
glances turned in rapture upon your enemy, if you have one, without a pang."

"One would think you had just been reading Cowley's charming poem, 'Henrietta first possest.'
But what is the moral to your entertaining little romance? That love must always be transient?"

"Not necessarily, but generally. We are travelling at different rates of progress and on different
planes. Happy are the lovers who advance with equal step, cultivating similar tastes, with
agreeing theories of life and its enjoyments!"

"Wise philosopher, how comes it, that, with so just an appreciation of the true basis of a
permanent attachment, you remain single? I see a gray hair or two, not only on your head, but
in that favorite moustache of yours."

"Gray? Oh, yes! gray as a badger, but immortally young. As for marriage, I'm rather past that.
I had my chance; I lost it, and shall not throw again."

Easelmann did not seem inclined to open this sealed book of his personal history, and the friends
were silent. Greenleaf at length broke the pause.

"I acknowledge the justice of your ideas in their general application, but in my own case they
do not apply at all. I was not in my teens when I went to Innisfield, but in the maturity of
such faculties as I have. Alice satisfies my ideal of a lovely, loving woman. She has capabilities,
taste, a thirst for improvement, and will advance in everything to which I am led."

"I won't disturb your dreams, nor play the Mephistopheles, as you sometimes call me. I am rather
serious to-day. But here you are where every faculty is stimulated, where you unconsciously
draw in new ideas with your daily breath. Alice remains in a country town, without society,
with few books, with no opportunity for culture in Art or in the minor graces of society. You
are not ready to marry; your ambition forbids it, and your means will not allow it. And before
the time comes when you are ready to establish yourself, think what a difference there may
be between you! The thought is cruel, but worth your consideration none the less.--But let
us change the subject. What are you doing? Any new orders?"

"Two new orders. One for a large picture from Mr. Sandford. The price is not what it should
be, but it will give me a living, and I am thankful for any employment. I loathe idleness.
I die, if I haven't something to do."

"Mere uneasiness, my youthful friend! Be tranquil, and you will find that laziness has its
comforts. However, to-morrow let me see your pictures. You lack a firmness and certainty of
touch that nothing but practice will give. But your forms are faithfully drawn, your eye for
color is sharp and true, and, what is more than all, you have the poetry which informs, harmonizes,
and crowns all."

"I am grateful for your friendly criticism," said Greenleaf, with a sudden flush. "You know
that people call you blunt, and that most of the artists think you almost malicious in your
severity; but you are the only man who ever talks sincerely to me."

Easelmann noticed the emotion, and spoke abruptly,--

"Depend upon it, if I see anything faulty, you will know it; if you think that friendly, I
am your friend. But look over there, where the sunset clouds are reflected in the Back Bay.
Now, if I should put those tints of gold and salmon and crimson and purple, with those delicate
shades of apple-green, into a picture, the mob would say, 'What an absurd fellow this painter
is! Where did he find all that Joseph's coat of colors?' The mob is a drove of asses, Greenleaf."

"Come, let us take our evening stroll."

"Have you seen Charbon, to-day?"

"No. But I should like to."

"We'll call for him."

"Yes, I rather like his brilliant silence."

"Next week, let us go to Nahant. I want you to try your hand on a coast view. But what, what
are you about? At that trumpery daguerreotype again? Let me see the beauty,--that's a good boy!"

"No!"

"Then put it up. If you won't show it, don't aggravate a fellow in that way."

[To be continued.]

SPIRITS IN PRISON.[3]

    I.

    O ye, who, prisoned in these festive rooms,
      Lean at the windows for a breath of air,
    Staring upon the darkness that o'erglooms
      The heavens, and waiting for the stars to bare
    Their glittering glories, veiled all night in cloud,
      I know ye scorn the gas-lights and the feast!
    I saw you leave the music and the crowd,
      And turn unto the windows opening east;
    I heard you sigh,--"When will the dawn's dull ashes
      Kindle their fires behind yon fir-fringed height?
    When will the prophet clouds with golden flashes
      Unroll their mystic scrolls of crimson light?"
    Fain would I come and sit beside you here,
      And silent press your hands, and with you lean
    Into the midnight, mingling hope and fear,
      Or pining for the days that might have been!

    II.

    Are we not brothers? In the throng that fills
      These strange enchanted rooms we met. One look
    Told that we knew each other. Sudden thrills,
      As of two lovers reading the same book,
    Ran through our hurried grasp. But when we turned,
      The scene around was smitten with a change:
    The lamps with lurid fire-light flared and burned;
      And through the wreaths and flowers,--oh, mockery strange!--
    The prison-walls with ghastly horror frowned;
      Scarce hidden by vine-leaves and clusters thick,
    A grim cold iron grating closed around.
      Then from our silken couches leaping quick,
    We hurried past the dancers and the lights,
      Nor heeded the entrancing music then,
    Nor the fair women scattering delights
      In flower-like flush of dress,--nor paused till when,
    Leaning against our prison-bars, we gazed
      Into the dark, and wondered where we were.
    Speak to me, brothers, for ye stand amazed!
      I come, your secret burthen here to share!

    III.

    I know not this mysterious land around.
      Black giant trees loom up in form obscure.
    Odors of gardens and of woods profound
      Blow in from out the darkness, fresh and pure.
    Faint sounds of friendly voices come and go,
      That seem to lure us forth into the air;
    But whence they come perchance no ear may know,
      And where they go perchance no foot may dare.

    IV.

    A realm of shadowy forms out yonder lies.
      Beauty and Power, fair dreams pursued by Fate,
    Wheel in unceasing vortex; and the skies
      Flash with strange lights that bear no name nor date.
    Sweet winds are breathing that just fan the hair,
      And fitful gusts that howl against the bars,
    And harp-like songs, and groans of wild despair,
      And angry clouds that chase the trembling stars.
    And on the iron grating the hot cheek
      We press, and forth into the night we call,
    And thrust our arms, that, manacled and weak,
      Clutch but the empty air, and powerless fall.

    V.

    And yet, O brothers! we, who cannot share
      This life of lies, this stifling day in night,--
    Know we not well, that, if we did but dare
      Break from our cell, and trust our manhood's might,
    When once our feet should venture on these wilds,
      The night would prove a sweet, still solitude,--
    Not dark for eyes that, earnest as a child's,
      Strove in the chaos but for truth and good?
    And oh, sweet liberty, though wizard gleams
      And elfin shapes should frighten or allure,
    To find the pathway of our hopes and dreams,--
      By toil to sweeten what we should endure,--
    To journey on, though but a little way,
      Towards the morning and the fir-clad heights,--
    To follow the sweet voices, till the day
      Bloomed in its flush of colors and of lights,--
    To look back on the valley and the prison,
      The windows smouldering still with midnight fires,
    And know the joy and triumph to have risen
      Out of that falsehood into new desires!
    O friends! it may be hard our chains to burst,
      To scale the ramparts, pass the sentinels;
    Dark is the night; but we are not the first
      Who break from the enchanter's evil spells.
    Though they pursue us with their scoffs and darts,
      Though they allure us with their siren song,
    Trust we alone the light within our hearts!
      Forth to the air! Freedom will dawn ere long!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: 1 Peter, iii. 19.]

PUNCH.

Not inebriating, but exhilarating punch; not punch of which the more a man imbibes the worse
he is, but punch of which the deeper the quaffings the better the effects; not a compound of
acids and sweets, hot water and fire-water, to steal away the brains,--but a finer mixture
of subtler elements, conducive to mental and moral health; not, in a word, punch, the drink,
but "Punch," the wise wag, the genial philosopher, with his brevity of stature, goodly-conditioned
paunch, next-to-nothing legs, protuberant back, bill-hook nose, and twinkling eyes,--to speak
respectfully, Mr. Punch, attended by the solemnly-sagacious, ubiquitously-versatile "Toby,"
together with the invisible company of skirmishers of the quill and pencil, producing in his
name those ever-welcome sheets, flying forth the world over, with hebdomadal punctuality. Of
the ingredients and salutary influence of this Punch--an institution and power of the age,
no more to be overlooked among the forces of the nineteenth century than is the steam-engine
or the magnetic telegraph--we propose to speak;--not, however, because of the comicality of
the theme; for the fun that surrounds, permeates, and saturates it would hardly move us to
discourse of it here, if it had not higher claims to attention. To take Punch only for a clown
is to mistake him egregiously. Joker as he is, he himself is no joke. The fool's-cap he wears
does not prove him to be a fool; and even when he touches the tip of his nasal organ with his
fore-finger and winks so irresistibly, meaning lurks in his facetious features, to assure you
he does not jest without a purpose, or play the buffoon only to coin sixpences. The fact, then,
we propose to illustrate is this:--that Punch is a teacher and philanthropist, a lover of truth,
a despiser of cant, an advocate of right, a hater of shams,--a hale, hearty old gentleman,
whose notions are not dyspeptic croakings, but healthful opinions of good digestion, and who,
though he wear motley and indulge in drolleries without measure, is full of sense and sensibility.

The birth-place and parentage of Punch are involved in some doubt,--a fate he shares with several
of the world's other heroes, ancient and modern. Accounts differ; and as he has not chosen
to settle the question autobiographically, we follow substantially the narrative[4]--that ought
to be true; for, mythical or historical, it appropriately localizes and fitly circumstances
the nativity of the humorist of the age.

In 1841, Mark Lemon, a writer of considerable ability, was the landlord of the Shakspeare Head,
Wych Street, London. A tavern with such a publican and such a name was, of course, frequented
by a circle of wits, with whom, in the year just mentioned, originated "Punch." Lemon (how
could there be punch without a lemon?) has been the editor from the outset. From which of the
knot of good fellows the bright idea of the unique journal first emanated does not appear.
The paternity has been ascribed to Douglas Jerrold. Its name might have been suggested by the
place of its birth. If so, it at once lost all associations with the ladle and the bowl, and
received a wider and better interpretation. The hero of the famous puppet-show was chosen for
the typical presiding genius and sponsor of the novel enterprise. And there is no neater piece
of allegorical writing in our language than the introductory article of the first number, wherein
is exquisitely shadowed forth "the moral" of the work, "Punch,"--suggestive of that "graver
puppetry," the "visual and oral cheats," "by which mankind are cajoled." Punch, the exemplar
of boldness and philosophic self-control, is the quaint embodiment of the intention to pursue
a higher object than the amusement of thoughtless crowds,--an intention which has been adhered
to with remarkable fidelity. The first number appeared July 17th, and the serial has lived
over a decade and a half, and grown to the bulk of thirty-four or thirty-five volumes. It was
not, however, built in a day. It knew a rickety infancy and hours of peril, and owes its rescue
from neglect and starvation, its subsequent and constantly increasing prosperity, to the enterprising
publishers,--Bradbury and Evans,--who nursed and resuscitated it at the critical moment. Well-known
contributors to the letter-press have been Jerrold, Albert Smith, à Beckett, Hood, and Thackeray;
whilst Henning, Leech, Meadows, Browne, Forrester, Gilbert, and Doyle have acted as designers.
Of these men of letters and art, Lemon and Leech, it is said, alone remain; some of the others
broke off their connection with the work at different periods, and some have passed away from
earth. Their places have been supplied by the Mayhews, Tom Taylor, Angus Reach, and Shirley
Brooks, and the historical painter, Tenniel. These changes have mostly been made behind the
scenes; the impersonality of the paper--to speak after the Hibernian style--being personified
by Mr. Punch himself,--ostensibly, by a well-preserved and well-managed conceit, its sole conductor
through all its vicissitudes and during the whole of its brilliant career. Whatever becomes
of correspondents, Punch never resigns and never dies. The baton never falls from his grasp.
He sits in his arm-chair, the unshaken Master of the Revels,--though thrones totter, kings
abdicate, and revolutions convulse empires. Troubles may disturb his household; but thereby
the public does not suffer. He still lives,--immortal in his funny and fascinating idiosyncrasies.

The ingredients of Punch, the instrumentalities by which he has won fame and victories, are
almost too multifarious for enumeration. All the merry imps which beset Leigh Hunt, when about
to compile selections from the comic poets, belong to Punch's retinue. Doubles of Similes,
Buffooneries of Burlesques, Stalkings of Mock Heroics, Stings in the Tails of Epigrams, Glances
of Innuendoes, Dry Looks of Irony, Corpulencies of Exaggerations, Ticklings of Mad Fancies,
Claps on the Backs of Horse Plays, Flounderings of Absurdities, Irresistibilities of Iterations,
Significances of Jargons, Wailings of Pretended Woes, Roarings of Laughter, and Hubbubs of
Animal Spirits, all appear, singly or in companies, to flash, ripple, dance, shoot, effervesce,
and sparkle, in prose and verse, vignettes, sketches, or elaborate pictures, on the ever-shifting
and always entertaining pages of the London Charivari. Of one prominent form of the exhibition
of this inexhaustible arsenal, namely, the illustrations, special notice is to be taken. These,
notwithstanding their oddity, extravagance, and burlesqueness, by reason of their grace, finish,
and good taste, frequently get into the proximity of the fine arts. This elevation of sportive
drawing is mainly to be put to the credit of manly John Leech,--"the very Dickens of the pencil."
He and his associates have proved that the humorous side of things may be limned with mirth-provoking
truth, and that vices and follies may be depicted with a vigorous and accurate crayon, without
coarseness or vulgarity, or pandering to depraved sentiments. Herein is most commendable success.
Punch's gallery--with but few, if any exceptions--may be opened to the purest eyes. In it there
is much of Hogarthian genius, without anything that needs a veil. In alluding to the agencies
of Punch, it would be doing him great injustice to leave the impression that they are all of
a mirthful character. Often is he tearfully, if at the same time smilingly, pathetic. Seriousness,
certainly, is not his forte, and he is not given to homilies and moral essays. Usually he gilds
homoeopathic pills of wisdom with a thick coating of humor. Yet, now and then, his vein is
an earnest vein, and he speaks from the abundance of a tender and deeply-moved heart. This
is especially true of some of his poetical effusions, which rank high among the best fugitive
pieces of the times. That Hood's "Song of the Shirt" was an original contribution to his columns
is almost enough of itself to show that Punch, like some other famous comedians, can start
the silent tear, as well as awaken peals of laughter. And this is but one of many instances
in point that might be cited. In his productions you often meet golden sentences of soberest
counsel, beautiful tributes to real worth, stirring appeals for the oppressed, and touching
eulogies of the loved and lost.

Thus much of the history and machinery of Punch. His salutary influence is to be spoken of
next. But before venturing upon what may seem indiscriminate praise, let it be confessed that
our hero is not without his weaknesses. Nothing human is perfect, and Punch is very human.
The good Homer sometimes nods; so doth the good Punch. He does not always perform equally well,--keep
up to his highest level. If he never entirely disappoints his audience, he fails sometimes
to shoot the brightest arrows of his quiver and hit his mark so as to make the scintillating
splinters fly. Now and then he has been slightly dull, forgotten himself and his manners, gone
too far, got into the wrong box, missed seizing the auricular appendage of the right pig, run
things into the ground,--blundered as common and uncommon people will. Under these general
charges we must, painful as it is to speak of the errors of a favorite, enter a few specifications.

The writer of the prospectus, before referred to, seems to have had a premonitory fear--growing
out of his bad treatment of Judy--that Punch in his new vocation might fail of uniform gentlemanliness
towards the ladies; and time has shown that there were some little grounds for the apprehension.
The droll hunchback's virulent dislike of mothers-in-law seems the nursed-up wrath of an unhappy
personal experience. Vastly amusing as were the "Caudle Lectures," it is a question whether
excessive indulgence in the luxury of satire upon a prolific theme did not infuse into them
over-bitter exaggeration, not favorable to the culture of domestic felicity. Did these celebrated
curtain-homilies stand alone, their sharp and unrivalled humor might save Punch from the censure
of being once in a while the least bit of a Bluebeard. But, for the most gallant gentleman,
on the whole, in the United Kingdom, he is not so invariable in fairness towards the fair as
could be wished. The follies and frivolities of absurd fashions are his proper game; and he
does brave service in hunting them down. Still, his warfare against crinoline, small bonnets,
and other feminine fancies in dress, has been tiresomely inveterate. Even Mr. Punch had better,
as a general rule, leave the management of the female toilette to those whom it most nearly
concerns. But in his case, the scolding or pouting should not be inexorable; for in one way
he atones amply for all his impertinence. He paints his young ladies pretty and graceful, being,
with all his sly satire, evidently fond of the sex, the juvenile portion at least. Surely,
a Compliment so uniform and tasteful must more than outweigh his teasing and banter with the
amiable subjects of both.

Of Punch as a local politician we are hardly fair judges, and it may be a mistaken suspicion
that he has occasionally given up to party what was meant for mankind. With respect to "foreign
affairs," we shall be safer in saying, that, with all his cosmopolitanism, he is a shade or
two John-Bullish. Thanking him for his fraternal cordiality towards "Jonathan," we must doubt
if it will do to trust implicitly his reports and impressions of men and things across the
Channel. That he is more than half right, however, when lingering remains of insular prejudice
tinge his solicitude to save his native land from entangling alliances, and keep its free government
from striking hands with despotism, we incline to believe; and we honor him that his loyalty
is not mere adulation, but duly seasoned with the democratic principle that would have the
stability of the throne the people's love,--the people being of infinitely greater importance
than the propping-up or the propagation of royal houses. In one sad direction Punch's patriotism
and humanity, it seems to us, were wrathful exaggerations, open to graver objection than yielding
unconsciously to a natural bias. In his zeal against terrible outrages, he forgot that two
wrongs never make a right. We refer to his course on the Indian Revolt. From the way he raised
his voice for war, almost exterminating, and with no quarter, one would think the British rule
in the East had been the rule of Christian love,--that Sepoys and other subjects had known
the reigning power only as patriarchal kindness,--and so, without excuse, a highly civilized,
justly and tenderly treated people, suddenly, and without provocation, became rebellious devils,
and rebellious only because they were devils. In the hour of horror-struck indignation, was
not Punch too blood-thirsty, vindictive, unjust, and oblivious to the truth of history, that
the insurgents are poor superstitious heathens, whom a selfish policy may have kept superstitious
and heathenish? True, he was the witness of broken hearts and desolate hearth-stones at home,
and daily heard of hellish atrocities inflicted on the women and children abroad,--enough to
crush out for the moment every thought but the thought of vengeance. Yet, even at such a crisis,
he should have remembered, that England, in strict accordance with the stern, unrelenting logic
of events, having sown to the wind, might therefore have reaped the whirlwind. It is among
the mysteries of Providence, that retributive justice, when visiting nations, often involves
innocent victims,--but it is retributive justice still; and tracing up rightly the chain of
causes and effects, it may be that the tragedies of Delhi and Lucknow are attributable, to
say the least, as much to the avarice of the dominant as to the depravity of the subjugated
race. The bare possibility that this might be the truth a philosopher like Punch ought not
to have overlooked, in the suddenness and fire of his anger.

Finally, Punch is no ascetic, but quite the reverse. He cannot be expected, any more than his
namesake, the beverage, to go down with the apostles of temperance. He is a convivialist,--moderately
so,--and no teetotaler. He evidently prefers roast-beef and brown-stout to bran-bread and cold
water, and has gone so far as to sing the praises of pale-ale. He thinks the laboring classes
should have their pot of beer, if the nobility and gentry are to eat good dinners and take
airings in Hyde Park, on Sundays. He is a Merry Englishman, as to the stomach,--and, like a
Merry Englishman, enjoys good living. There is no denying this fact; but here is the whole
front of his offending. Remember that he was born at the Shakspeare's Head, and has had a publican
for his right-hand man.

These are defects, it may be; and yet not by its defects are we to judge of a work of Art.
Of that generous and just canon Punch should have the full benefit. Try him by that, and he
has abounding virtues to flood and conceal with lustrous and far-raying light his exceptional
errors. To brief notices of some of these--regretting the want of room to enlarge upon them
as it would be pleasant to do--we gladly turn.

Punch is to be loved and cherished as the maker of mirth for the million. Saying this, we do
not propose to go into an argument to excuse, justify, or recommend hilarity for its own sake
or its medicinal effects on overtasked bodies and souls. Desperate attempts have been made
to prove the innocence of fun, and the allowableness of wit and humor. Assuming or conceding
that the jocose elements or capacities of human nature need apology and defence, very nice
distinctions have been drawn, and very ingenious sophistry employed, to prove that the best
of people may, within certain limits, crack jokes, or laugh at jokes cracked for them. These
efforts to accommodate stern dogmas to that pleasant stubborn fact in man's constitution, his
irresistible craving for play, and irresistible impulse to laugh at whatever is really laughable,
are about as necessary as would be an essay maintaining the harmlessness of sunshine. The fact
has priority over the dogmas, and is altogether too strong to need the patronizing special-pleading
they suggest. Instead of going into the metaphysics of the question about the lawfulness and
blamelessness of humor shown or humor relished, suppose we cut the knot by a delightful illustration
of the compatibility of humor with the highest type of character.

No one will deny the sincerity, earnestness, devotedness, sublime consecration to duty, of
the heroine of the hospitals of Scutari. No one will dispute the practical piety of the gentle,
but fearless, the tenderhearted, but truly strong-minded woman, who made the lazar-house her
home for months together,--ministered to its sick, miserable, and ignorant inmates,--put, by
the unostentatious exercise of indomitable faith and unswerving self-sacrifice, the love and
humanity of the Gospel in direct and strongest contrast with the barbarisms of war. No one
will deny or dispute this now. That heroic English maiden, whose shadow, as it fell on his
pillow, the rude soldier kissed with almost idolatrous gratitude, has won, without thought
of seeking it, and without the loss of a particle of humility and womanly delicacy, the loving
admiration of all Christendom. Well, she

      "whose presence honors queenly guests,
    Who wears the noblest jewel of her time,
    And leaves her race a nobler, in her name,"

shall be the sufficient argument here,--especially as none have paid finer, more delicate,
or truer tributes to her virtue than Punch. In a recent sketch of her career, accompanying
her portrait in the gallery of noted women, this sentence is given from a descriptive letter:--"Her
general demeanor is quiet and rather reserved; still, I am much mistaken, if she is not gifted
with a very lively sense of the ridiculous." Here is a delightful, and, we doubt not, true
intimation. Since the springs of pathos lie very near the springs of humor, in the richest
souls, the fair Florence must, in moments of weariness, have glanced with merry eyes over the
pages of Punch, or handed, with smiling archness, his inimitable numbers to her wan and wounded
patients, kindly to cheat them into momentary forgetfulness of their agonies. If this were
so, who shall say that the use or enjoyment of wit is not as right as it is natural? None,
unless it be the narrowest of bigots,--like those who objected to this heroic lady's mission
of mercy to the East, because she did not echo their sectarian shibboleths, and would not ask
whether a good nurse were Protestant or Romanist.

We may repeat, therefore, as a prime excellence of Punch, that he is the maker of mirth for
the million. He is mainly engaged in furnishing titillating amusement,--and he furnishes an
article, not only marketable, but necessary. All work makes Jack a dull boy,--and not infrequently
an unhappy, if not bad boy,--whether Jack be in the pulpit, the counting-room, the senate-house,
or digging potatoes; and what is true of Jack is equally true of Gill, his sister, sweetheart,
or wife. That Punch every week puts a girdle of smiles round the earth, interrupts the serious
business of thousands by his merry visits, and with his ludicrous presence delights the drawing-room,
cheers the study, and causes side-shakings in the kitchen,--entitles him to be called a missionary
of good. Grant this,--then allow, on the average, five minutes of merriment to each reader
of each issue of Punch,--then multiply these 5 minutes by--say 50,000, and this again by 52
weeks, and this, finally, by 17 years, and thus cipher out, if you have a tolerably capacious
imagination, the amount of happiness which has flowed and spread, like a river of gladness,
through the world, from that inexhaustible, bubbling, and sparkling fountain, at 85, Fleet
Street, London.

Punch is the advocate of true manliness. Velvet robes and gilded coronets go for nothing with
him, if not worn by muscular integrity; and fustian is cloth-of-gold, in his eyes, when it
covers a stout heart in the right place. He has no mercy on snobbism, flunkeyism, or dandyism.
He whips smartly the ignoble-noble fops of the household-troops,--parading them on toy-horses,
and making them, with suicidal irony, deplore the hardships of comrades in the Crimea. He sneers
at the loungers, and the delicate, dissipated roués of the club-house,--though their names
were once worn by renowned ancestors, and are in the peerage. Fast young men are to him befooled
prodigals, wasting the wealth of life in profitless living. He is not, however, an anchorite,
or hard upon youth. On the contrary, he is an indulgent old fellow, and too sagacious to expect
the wisdom of age from those sporting their freedom-suits. Still, he has no patience with the
foppery whose whole existence advertises fine clothes, patronizes taverns, saunters along fashionable
promenades, and ogles opera-dancers. In this connection, his hits at "the rising generation"
will be called to mind. Punch has found out that in England there are no boys now,--only male
babies and precocious men;--no growing up,--only a leap from the cradle, robe, and trousers
to the habiliments and manners of a false manhood. Punch has found out and frequently illustrates
this fact, and furnishes a series of pictures of Liliputians aping the questionable doings
of their elders. It is observable, however, that he confines these portraits of precocity chiefly
to one sex. Whether this be owing to his innate delicacy and habitual gallantry, or to the
English custom of keeping little girls--and what we should call large girls also--at home longer,
and under more restraint, than in our republic, we cannot say. Were he on this side of the
Atlantic, he might possibly find occasion to be less partial in the use of his reproving fun.
Young misses seem to be growing scarce, and young ladies becoming alarmingly numerous. The
early date at which the cry comes for long skirts, parties, balls, and late hours, for lace,
jewelry, and gold watches, threatens to rob our homes of one of their sweetest charms,--the
bright presence of joyous, gentle, and modest lasses, willing to be happy children for as many
years as their mothers were, on their way to maidenhood and womanhood.

Punch is a reformer,--and of the right type, too; not destructive, declamatory, vituperative;
not a monomaniac, snarly, and ill-natured,--as if zeal in riding a favorite hobby excused exclusiveness
of soul and any amount of bad temper. He would not demolish the social system and build on
its ruins a new one; being clearly of the opinion that the growths of ages and the doings of
six thousands of years are to be respected,--that progress means improvement upon the present,
rather than overthrow of the entire past. Calm, hopeful, cheerful, and patient, he is at the
same time bold and uncompromising, and a bit radical into the bargain. In his own delicious
way, he has been no mean advocate of liberal principles and measures. He has argued for the
repeal of the corn and the modification of the game laws, the softening of the cruelties of
the criminal code, and the fair administration of law for all orders and conditions of men
and women. He has had no respect for ermine, lawn, or epaulets, in his assaults upon the monopolies
and sinecures of Church and State, circumlocution offices, nepotism, patronage, purchase, and
routine, in army or navy. He wants the established religion to be religious, not a cover for
aristocratic preferments and dog-in-the-manger laziness,--and government administered for the
whole people, and not merely dealing out treasury-pap and fat offices for the pensioned few.
Punch is loyal, sings lustily, "God Save the Queen," and stands by the Constitution. He is
a true-born Englishman, and patriotic to the backbone; but none are too high in place or name
for his merciless ridicule and daring wit, if they countenance oppressive abuses. It is a tall
feather in his fool's-cap, that his fantastic person is a dread to evil-doers on thrones, in
cabinets, and red-tape offices. Crowned tyrants, bold usurpers, and proud statesmen are sensitive,
like other mortals, to ridicule, and know very well how much easier it is to cannonade rebellious
insurgents than to put down the general laugh, and that the point of a joke cannot be turned
by the point of the bayonet. "Punch" was seized in Paris on account of the caricature of the
"Sphinx," but after twenty-four hours' consideration the order of confiscation was rescinded,
and the irreverent publication now lies upon the tables of the reading-rooms. So, iron power
is not beyond the reach of the shafts of wit; once make it ridiculous, and it may continue
to lie dreaded, but will cease to be respected.

Limits permitting, it would be pleasant to refer at length to various other marked graces of
Punch,--such, for example, as his care for true Art, by exposing to merited contempt the abortions
of statuary, painting, and architecture that come under his accurate eye,--his concern for
good letters, exhibited in fantastic parodies of affectations, mannerisms, absurdities of plot,
and vices of style in modern poets and novelists,--his "nil nisi bonum," and, where there is
no "bonum," his silent "nil," of the dead, whom when living he pursued with unrelenting raillery,--his
cool, eclectic judgments, freedom from extremes, and other manifestations of clear-headedness
and refined sentiment, glimmering and shooting through his rollicking drollery, quick wit,
and quiet humor. But we must pass them by, to emphasize a quality that out-tops and outshines
them all,--his humanity.

This is Mr. Punch's specialty, generating his purest fun and consecrating his versatile talents
to highest ends. Wherever he catches meanness, avarice, selfishness, force, preying upon the
humble and the weak, he is sure to give them hard knocks with his baton, or home-thrusts with
his pen and pencil. His practical kindness is charmingly comprehensive, too. He speaks for
the dumb beast, pleads for the maltreated brutes of Smithfield Market, craves compassion for
skeleton omnibus-horses, with the same ready sympathy that he fights for cheated fellow-mortals.
In the court of public opinion, he is volunteer counsel for all in any way defrauded or kept
in bondage by pitiless pride, barbarous policy, thoughtless luxury, or wooden-headed prejudice.
His sound ethics do not admit that the lower law of man's enactment can, under any circumstances,
override or abrogate the higher laws of God. Consequently, he judges with unbiased, instinctive
rectitude, when he shows up in black and white the Model Republic's criminal anomaly, by making
the African Slave a companion-piece to the Greek Slave, among "Jonathan's" contributions to
the great Crystal Palace Exhibition. In this same vein of a wide-ranging application of the
Golden Rule, he is ever on the alert to brand inhuman deeds and institutions, wherever found.
You cannot very often hit him with the "tu quoque" retort, insinuate that he lives in a house
of glass, or charge him with visiting his condemnation upon distant iniquities whilst winking
at iniquities of equal magnitude directly under his nose.

Punch is no Mrs. Jellyby, brimful of zeal for Borrio boolas in far-off Africas, and utterly
stolid to disorders and distresses under his own roof. Proud of the glory, he feels and confesses
the shame of England; and the grinding injustice of her caste-system, aristocracy, and hierarchy
does not escape the lash of his rebuke. He is the friend of the threadbare curate, performing
the larger half of clerical duty and getting but a tittle of the tithes,--of the weary seamstress,
wetting with midnight tears the costly stuff which must be ready to adorn heartless rank and
fashion at to-morrow's pageant,--of the pale governess, grudgingly paid her pittance of salary
without a kind word to sweeten the bitterness of a lonely lot. He is the friend even of the
workhouse juveniles, and, as their champion, castigates with cutting sarcasm and stinging scorn
the reverend and honorable guardians, who, just as, full of hope, they had reached the door
of the theatre, prohibited a band of these wretched orphans from availing of a kind-hearted
manager's invitation to an afternoon performance of "Jack and the Bean-Stalk." Truly, Punch
is more than half right, as, in his indignation, he declares, "It will go luckily with some
four-faced Christians, if, with the fullest belief in their own right of entry of paradise,
they are not 'stopped at the very doors'"; and the parson, in the case, gets but his deserts,
when at his lugubrious sham-piety are hurled stanzas like these:--

    "Their little faces beamed with joy
     Two miles upon their way,
    As they supposed, each girl and boy,
     About to see the play.
    Their little cheeks with tears were wet,
     As back again they went,
    Balked by a sanctimonious set,
     Led by a Reverend Gent.

    "And if such Reverend Gents as he
     Could get the upperhand,
    Ah, what a hateful tyranny
     Would override the land!
    That we may never see that time,
     Down with the canting crew
    That would out of their pantomime
    Poor little children do!"

Punch is the friend of all who are friendless, and, with a generous spirit of protection, gives
credit to whom credit is due, whatever conventionality, precedent, monopoly, or routine may
say to the contrary. During the Crimean War, he took care of the fame of the rank-and-file
of the army. The dispatches to Downing Street, reporting the gallantry of titled officers,
were more than matched by Punch's imitative dispatches from the seat of war, setting forth
the exploits of Sergeant O'Brien, Corporal Stout, or Private Gubbins. He saw to it that those
who had the hardest of the fight, the smallest pay, and the coarsest rations, should not be
forgotten in the gazetting of the heroes. Indeed, our comic friend's fellowship of soul with
the humblest members of the human family is a notable trait; it is so ready, and yet withal
so judicious. It is no part of his philosophy, as already intimated, violently and rashly to
disturb the existing order of things, and set one class in rebellion against other classes.
He simply insists upon the recognition of the law of mutual dependence all round. This is observable
in his dealing with the vexed question of domestic service. The prime trouble of housekeeping
comes in frequently for a share of his attention; and underneath ironical counsels, you may
trace, quietly insinuating itself into graphic sketches, the genial intent fairly to adjust
the relations between life above and life below stairs. Accordingly, Punch sees no reason why
Angelina may have a lover in the parlor, whilst Bridget's engagement forbids her to entertain
a fond "follower" in the kitchen; and he perversely refuses to see how it can be right for
Miss Julia to listen to the soft nonsense of Captain Augustus Fitzroy in the drawing-room,
and entirely wrong for Molly, the nursery-maid, to blush at the blunt admiration of the policeman,
talking to her down the area. Punch is independent and original in this respect. His strange
creed seems to be, that human nature is human nature,--whether, in its feminine department,
you robe it in silk or calico, and, in its male department, button a red coat over the breast
of an officer of the Guards, or put the coarse jerkin on the broad back of the industrious
toilsman. And according to this whimsical belief, he writes and talks jocosely, but with covert
common sense. His warm and catholic humanity runs up and down the whole social scale with a
clear-sighted equity. His philanthropy is what the word literally signifies,--the love of man
as man, and because he is a man. Without being an impracticable fanatic, advocating impossible
theories, or theories that can grow into realities only with the gradual progress of the race,--without
indulging in fanciful visions of unapproached Utopias,--without imagining that all, wherever
born and however nurtured, can reach the same level of wealth and station,--he holds, not merely
that

    "Honor and shame from no condition rise,"

but also, be the condition high or low, the worthy occupant of it, by reason of the common
humanity he shares with all above and all beneath and all around him, has a brother's birthright
to brotherly treatment, to even-handed justice and open-handed charity.

We have taken it for granted that Punch is a household necessity and familiar friend of our
readers; and, resisting as far as possible the besetting temptation to refer in detail to the
many pictorial and letter-press illustrations of his merits, have spoken of him as "a representative
man,"--the universally acknowledged example of the legitimate and beneficent uses of the sportive
faculties; thus indirectly claiming for these faculties more than toleration.

The variety in human nature must somehow be brought into unity, and its diversified, strongly
contrasted elements shown to be parts of a symmetrical and harmonious whole. The philosophy,
the religion, which overlooks or condemns any of these elements, is never satisfactory, and
fails to win sincere belief, because of its felt incompleteness. All men have an instinctive
faith that in God's plan no incontestable facts are exceptional or needless facts. Science
assumes this in regard to the phenomena of the natural world; and, in its progressive searches,
expects to discover continual proof that all manifestations, however opposite and contradictory,
are parts of one beneficent scheme. Accordingly, Science starts on its investigations with
the conviction that the storm is as salutary as the sunshine,--that there is utility in what
seems mere luxury,--and that Nature's loveliness and grandeur, Nature's oddity and grotesqueness,
have a substantial value, as well as Nature's wheat-harvests. Now the same principle is to
be recognized in dealing with things spiritual. It may not be affirmed that anything appertaining
to universal consciousness--spontaneous, irresistible, as breathing--is of itself base, and
therefore to be put away; since so to do is to question the Creative Wisdom. The work of the
Infinite Spirit must be consistent; and you might as truly charge the bright stars with malignity
as denounce as vile one faculty or capacity of the mind. Consequently, there is a use for all
forms of wit and humor.

Punch represents a genuine phase of human nature,--none the less genuine because human nature
has other and far different phases. That there is a time to mourn does not prove there is no
time to dance. Punch has his part, and his times to play it, in the melodrama, the mixed comedy
and tragedy, of existence. What we have to do is to see that he interferes with no other actor's
rôle, comes upon the stage in fitting scenes, keeps to the text and the impersonations which
right principle and pure taste assign him. His grimaces are not for the church. He may not
sing his catches when penitent souls are listening to the "Miserere," drop his torpedo-puns
when life's mystery and solemnity are pressed heavily upon the soul,--be irreverent, profane,
or vulgar. He must know and keep his place. But he should have his place, and have it confessed;
and that place is not quite at the end of the procession of the benefactors of the race. Punch,
as we speak of him now, is but a generic name for Protean wit and humor, well and wisely employed.
As such, let Punch have his mission; there is ample room for him and his merry doings, without
interfering with soberer agencies. Let him go about tickling mankind; it does mankind good
to be tickled occasionally. Let him broaden elongated visages; there are many faces that would
be improved by horizontal enlargement, by having the corners of the mouth curved upward. Let
him write and draw "as funny as he can"; there are dull talking and melancholy pictures in
abundance to counterbalance his pleasantry. Let him amuse the children, relax with jocosity
the sternness of adults, and wreathe into smiles the wrinkles of old age. Let him, in a word,
be a Merry Andrew,--the patron and promoter of frolicsomeness. To be only this is nothing to
his discredit; and to esteem him for being only this is not to pay respect to a worthless mountebank.

But Punch is and can be something more than a caterer of sport. Kings, in the olden time, had
their jesters, who, under cover of blunt witticisms, were permitted, to utter home-truths,
which it would have cost grave counsellors and dependent courtiers their heads to even whisper.
Punch should enjoy a similar immunity in this age,--and society tolerate his free and smiling
speech, when it would thrust out sager monitors. If it be true that

    "Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,"

something like the converse of this saying is also true. Not fools exactly, but wisdom disguised
in the motley of wit, often gains entrance to ears deaf to angelic voices. There are follies
that are to be laughed out of their silliness and sinfulness. There are tyrants, big and little,
to be dethroned by ridicule. There are offences, proof against appeals to conscience, that
wince and vanish before keen satire. Even as a well-aimed joke brings back good-humor to an
angry mob, or makes mad and pugnacious bullies cower and slink away from derision harder to
stand than hard knocks,--even so will a quizzical Punch be efficient as a philanthropist, when
sedate exhortations or stern warnings would fail to move stony insensibility.

As an element in effective literature, a force in the cause of reform, the qualities Punch
personifies have been and are of no slight service. And herein those qualities have an indefeasible
title to regard. Let there be no vinegar-faced, wholesale denunciation of them, because sometimes
their pranks are wild and overleap the fences of propriety. Rather let appreciation of their
worthiness accompany all reproving checks upon their extravagances. Let nimble fun, explosive
jokes, festoon-faced humor, the whole tribe of gibes and quirks, every light, keen, and flashing
weapon in the armory of which Punch is the keeper, be employed to make the world laugh, and
put the world's laughter on the side of all right as against all wrong. If this be not done,
the seriousness of life will darken into gloom, its work become slavish tasks, and the conflict
waged be a terrible conflict between grim virtues and fiendish vices.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: See Parton's Humorous Poetry.]

THE SUBJECTIVE OF IT.

Toward the close of a dreamy, tranquil July day, a day made impressive beyond the possible
comprehension of a dweller in civilization by its sun having risen for us over the unbroken
wilderness of the Adirondack, a mountain-land in each of whose deep valleys lies a blue lake,
we, a party of hunters and recreation-seekers, six beside our guides, lay on the fir-bough-cushioned
floor of our dark camp, passing away the little remnant of what had been a day of rest to our
guides and of delicious idleness to ourselves. The camp was built on the bold shore of a lake
which yet wants a name worthy its beauty, but which we always, for want of such a one, call
by that which its white discoverer left it,--Tupper's Lake,--whose waters, the untremulous
mirror of the forests and mountains around and the sky above, gleamed to us only in blue fragments
through the interstices of the leafy veil that intervened. The forest is unbroken to the water's
edge, and even out over the water itself it stretches its firs and cedars, gray and moss-draped,
with here and there a moisture-loving white-birch, so that from the very shore one sees only
suggestive bits of distance and sky; and from where we were lying, sky, hills, and the water
below were all blue alike, and undistinguishable alike, glimpses of a world of sunlight, which
the grateful shadow we lay in made delicious to the thought. We were sheltered right woodsman-like;--our
little house of fresh-peeled bark of spruces, twelve feet by nine, open only to the east, on
which side lay the lake, shielded us from wind and rain, and the huge trees shut around us
so closely that no eye could pierce a pistol-shot into their glades. There were blue-jays all
about us, making the woods ring with their querulous cries, and a single fish-hawk screamed
from the blue overhead, as he sailed round and round, watching the chances of a supper in the
lake. Between us and the water's edge, and a little to one side of the path we had bushed out
to the shore, was the tent of the guides, and there they lay asleep, except one who was rubbing
up his "man's" rifle, which had been forgotten the night before when we came in from the hunt,
and so had gathered rust.

Three of our party were sleeping, and the others talked quietly and low, desultorily, as if
the drowsiness had half conquered us too. The conversation had rambled round from a discussion
on the respective merits of the Sharp's and the Kentucky rifles (consequent on a trial of skill
and rifles which we had had after dinner) to Spiritualism,--led to this last topic by my relation
of some singular experiences I had met in the way of presentiments and what seemed almost like
second-sight, during a three-months' sojourn in the woods several summers before. There is
something wonderfully exciting to the imagination in the wilderness, after the first impression
of monotony and lonesomeness has passed away and there comes the necessity to animate this
so vacant world with something. And so the pines lift themselves grimly against the twilight
sky, and the moanings of the woods become full of meaning and mystery. Living, therefore, summer
after summer, as I had done, in the wilderness, until there is no place in the world which
seems so much like a home to me as a bark camp in the Adirondack, I had come to be what most
people would call morbid, but what I felt to be only sensitive to the things around, which
we never see, but to which we all at times pay the deference of a tremor of inexplicable fear,
a quicker and less deeply drawn breath, an involuntary turning of the head to see something
which we know we shall not see, yet are glad to find that we do not,--all which things we laugh
at as childish when they have passed, yet tremble at as readily when they come again. J., who
was both poet and philosopher, singularly clear and cold in his analyses, and at the same time
of so great imaginative power that he could set his creations at work and then look on and
reason out the law of their working as though they were not his, had wonders to tell which
always passed mine by a degree; his experiences were more various and marvellous than mine,
yet he had a reason for everything, to which I was compelled to defer without being convinced.
"Yes," said he, finally knocking out the ashes from his meerschaum, as we rose, at the Doctor's
suggestion, to take a row out on the lake while the sun was setting,--"Yes, I believe in your
kind of a 'spiritual world,'--but that it is purely subjective."

I was silenced in a moment;--this single sentence, spoken like the expression of the experience
of a lifetime, produced an effect which all his logic could not. He had rubbed some talismanic
opal, pronouncing the spirit-compelling sentence engraved thereon, and a new world of doubts
and mysteries, marvels and revelations burst on me. One phase of existence, which had been
hitherto a reality to me, melted away into the thinness of an uncompleted dream; but as it
melted away, there appeared behind it a whole universe, of which I had never before dreamed.
I had puzzled my brains over the metaphysics of subjectivity and objectivity and found only
words; now I grasped and comprehended the round of the thing. I looked through the full range
of human cognitions, and found, from beginning to end, a proclamation of the presence of that
arch-magician, Imagination. I had said to myself,--"The universe is subjective to Deity, objective
to me; but if I am his image, what is that part of me which corresponds to the Creator in Him?"
Here I found myself, at last, the creator of a universe of unsubstantialities, all of the stuff
that dreams are made of, and all alike unconsciously evoked, whether they were the dreams of
sleep or the hauntings of waking hours. I grew bewildered as the thought loomed up in its eternal
significance, and a thousand facts and phenomena, which had been standing in the darkness around
my little circle of vision, burst into light and recognition, as though they had been waiting
beyond the outer verge for the magic words. J. had spoken them.

Silent, almost for the moment unconscious of external things, in the intense exaltation of
thought and feeling, I walked down to the shore. Taking the lightest and fleetest of our boats,
we pushed off on the perfectly tranquil water. There was no flaw in the mirror which gave us
a duplicated world. Line for line, tint for tint, the noble mountain that lifts itself at the
east, robed in primeval forest to its very summit, and now suffused with rosy light from the
sun, already hidden from us by a low ridge in the west, was reproduced in the void below us.
The shadow of the western ridge began to climb the opposite bluffs of the lake shore. We pulled
well out into the lake and lay on our oars. If anything was said, I do not remember it. I was
as one who had just heard words from the dead, and hears as prattle all the sounds of common
life. My eyes, my ears, were opened anew to Nature, and it seemed even as if some new sense
had been given me. I felt, as I never felt before, the cool gloom of the shadow creep up, ridge
after ridge, towards the solitary peak, irresistibly and triumphantly encroaching on the light,
which fought back towards the summit, where it must yield at last. It drew back over ravines
and gorges, over the wildernesses of unbroken firs which covered all the upper portion of the
mountain, deepening its rose-tint and gaining in intensity what it lost in expanse,--diminished
to a handbreadth, to a point, and, flickering an instant, went out, leaving in the whole range
of vision no speck of sunlight to relieve the wilderness of shadowy gloom. I had come under
a spell,--for, often as I had seen the sun set in the mountains and over the lakes, I had never
before felt as I now felt, that I was a part in the landscape, and that it was something more
to me than rocks and trees. The sunlight had died on it. J. took up the oars and our silently-moving
boat broke the glassy surface again. All around us no distinction was visible between the landscape
above and that below, no water-line could be found; and to the west, where the sky was still
glowing and golden, with faint bands of crimson cirrus swept across the deep and tremulous
blue, growing purple as the sun sank lower, we could distinguish nothing in the landscape.
Neither sound nor motion of animate or inanimate thing disturbed the scene, save that of the
oars, with the long lines of blue which ran off from the wake of the boat into the mystery
closing behind us. A rifle-shot rang out from the landing and rolled in multitudinous echoes
around the lake, dying away in faintest thunders and murmurings from the ravines on the side
of the mountain. It was the call to supper, and we pulled back to the light of the fire, which
was now glimmering through the trees from the front of the camp.

Supper over, the smokers lighted their pipes and a rambling conversation began on the sights
and sounds of the day. For my own part, unable to quiet the uneasy questioning which possessed
me, I wandered down to the shore and took a seat in the stern of one of the boats, which, hauled
part of their length upon the sandy beach, reached out some distance among the lily-pads which
covered the shallow water, and whose folded flowers dotted the surface, the white points alone
visible. The uneasy question still stirred within me; and now, looking towards the northwest,
where the sky yet glowed faintly with twilight, a long line of pines, gaunt and humanesque,
as no tree but our northern white-pine is, was relieved in massy blackness against the golden
gray, like a long procession of giants. They were in groups of two and three, with now and
then an isolated one, stretching along the horizon, losing themselves in the gloom of the mountains
at the north. The weirdness of the scene caught my excited imagination in an instant, and I
became conscious of two mental phenomena. The first was an impression of motion in the trees,
which, whimsical as it was, I had not the slightest power to dispel. I trembled from head to
foot under the consciousness of this supernatural vitality. My rational faculties were as clear
as ever they had been, and I understood perfectly that the semblance of motion was owing to
two characteristics of the white-pine, namely,--that it follows the shores of the lakes in
lines, rarely growing back at any distance from the water, except when it follows, in the same
orderly arrangement, the rocky ridges,--and that, from its height above all other forest-trees,
it catches the full force of the prevalent winds, which here are from the west, and consequently
leans slightly to the east, much as a person leans in walking. These traits of the tree explained
entirely the phenomenon; yet the knowledge of them had not the slightest effect to undeceive
my imagination. I was awe-struck, as though the phantoms of some antediluvian race had arisen
from the valleys of the Adirondack and were marching in silence to their old fanes on the mountain-tops.
I cowered in the boat under an absolute chill of nervous apprehension.--The second phenomenon
was, that I heard mentally a voice which said distinctly these words,-"The procession of the
Anakim!"--and at the same time I became conscious of some disembodied spiritual being standing
near me, as we are sometimes aware of the presence of a friend without having seen him. Every
one accustomed to solitary thought has probably recognized this kind of mental action, and
speculated on the strange duality of Nature implied in it. The spiritualists call it "impressional
communication," and abandon themselves to its vagaries in the belief that it is really the
speech of angels; men of thought find in it a mystery of mental organization, and avail themselves
of it under the direction of their reason. I at present speculated with the philosophers; but
my imagination, siding with the spiritualists, assured me that some one spoke to me, and reason
was silenced. I sat still as long as I could endure it, alone, and then crept back, trembling,
to the camp,--feeling quiet only when surrounded by the rest of the party.

My attendant dæmon did not leave me, I found; for now I heard the question asked, half-tauntingly,--"Subjective
or objective?"

I asked myself, in reply,--"Am I mad or sane?"

"Quite sane, but with your eyes opened to something new!" was the instantaneous reply.

On such expeditions, men get back to the primitive usages and conditions of humanity. We had
arisen at daybreak; darkness brought the disposition to rest. We arranged ourselves side by
side on the couch of balsam and cedar boughs which the guides had spread on the ground of the
camp, our feet to the fire, and all but myself soon slept. I lay a long time, excited, looking
out through the open front of the camp at the stars which shone in through the trees, and even
they seemed partakers of my new state of existence, and twinkled consciously and confidentially,
as to one who shared the secret of their own existence and purposes. The pine-trees overhead
had an added tone in their meanings, and indeed everything, as I regarded it, seemed to manifest
a new life, to become identified with me: Nature and I had all things in common. I slept, at
length,--a strange kind of sleep; for when the guides awoke me, in the full daylight, I was
conscious of some one having talked with me through the night.

In broad day, with my companions, and in motion, the influences of the previous evening seemed
to withdraw themselves to a remote distance,--yet I was aware of their awaiting me when I should
be unoccupied. The day was as brilliant, as tranquil as its predecessor, and the council decided
that it should be devoted to a "drive," for we had eaten the last of our venison for breakfast.
The party were assigned their places at those points of the lake where the deer would be most
likely to take the water, while my guide, Steve M----, and myself went up Bog River, to start
him. The river, a dark, sluggish stream, about fifty feet wide, the channel by which the Mud
Lakes and Little Tupper's Lake, with its connected lakes and ponds, empty into Tupper's Lake,
is a favorite feeding-ground with the deer, whose breakfast is made on the leaves of the Nuphar
lutea which edge the stream. We surprised one, swimming around amongst the leaves, snatching
here and there the choicest of them, and when he turned to go out and rose in the water, as
his feet touched bottom, I gave him a ball without fatal effect, and landing, we put Carlo
on the track, which was marked by occasional drops and clots of blood, and hearing him well
off into the woods, and in that furious and deep bay which indicates close pursuit, we went
back to our boat and paddled upstream to a run-way Steve knew of, where the deer sometimes
crossed the river. We pushed the boat into the overhanging alders which fringe the banks, leaning
out into and over the water, and listened to the far-off bay of the hound. It died away and
was entirely lost for a few minutes, and then came into hearing from the nearer side of the
ridge, which lay back from the river a hundred rods or so, and I cocked my rifle while Steve
silently pushed the boat out of the bushes, ready for a start, if the deer should "water."
The baying receded again, and this time in the direction of the lake. The blood we had found
on the trail was the bright, red, frothy blood which showed that the ball had passed through
the lungs, and, as we knew that the deer would not run long before watering, we were sure that
this would be his last turn and that he was making in earnest for the lake, where some of the
boats would certainly catch him.

The excitement of the hunt had brought me back to a natural state of feeling, and now, as I
lay in the stern of the boat, drifting slowly down-stream, and looked up into the hazy blue
sky, in the whole expanse of which appeared no fragment of cloud, and the softened sunshine
penetrated both soul and body, while the brain, lulled into lethargy by the unbroken silence
and monotony of forest around, lost every trace of its midsummer madness,--I looked back to
the state of the last evening as to a curious dream. I asked myself wherein it differed from
a dream, and instantly my dæmon replied, "In no wise." The instant reply surprised me, without
startling me from my lethargy. I responded, as a matter of course, "But if no more than a dream,
it amounts to nothing." It answered me, "But when a man dreams wide awake?" I pondered an instant,
and it went on: "And how do you know that dreams are nothing? They are real while they last,
and your waking life is no more; you wake to one and sleep to the other. Which is the real,
and which the false? since you assume that one is false." I only asked myself again the eternal
question, "Objective or subjective?" and the dæmon made no further suggestion. At this instant
we heard the report of a gun from the lake. "That's the Doctor's shot-gun," said Steve, and
pulled energetically down-stream; for we knew, that, if the Doctor had fired, the deer had
come in,--and if he had missed the first shot, he had a second barrel, which we should have
heard from.

Among the most charming cascades in the world is certainly that which Bog River makes where
it falls into Tupper's Lake. Its amber water, black in the deep channel above the fall, dividing
into several small streams, slips with a plunge of, it may be, six feet over the granite rocks,
into a broad, deep pool, round which tall pines stand, and over which two or three delicate-leaved
white-birches lean, from which basin the waters plunge in the final foamy rush of thirty or
forty feet over the irregularly broken ledge which makes the bold shore of the lake. Between
the two points of rock which confine the stream is thrown a bridge, part of the military road
from the Mohawk settlements to those on the St. Lawrence, built during the war of 1812. On
this bridge I waited until Steve had carried the boat around, when we reëmbarked for the camp.

Arriving at the landing, we found two of the guides dressing the Doctor's deer, and the others
preparing for dinner. As night came on my excitement returned, and I remained in the camp while
the others went out on the lake,--not from fear of such an experience as I had the night before,
for I enjoyed the wild emotions, as one enjoys the raging of the sea around the rocks he stands
on, with a kind of tremulous apprehension,--but to see what effect the camp would produce on
the state of feeling which I had begun to look at as something normal in my mental development.
The rest of the party had gone out in two boats, and three of the guides, taking another, went
on an excursion of their own; the two remaining, having cleared the supper-things away and
lighted their pipes, were engaged in their tent, playing old sledge by the light of a single
candle. There was a race out on the lake, and a far-off merriment, with an occasional halloo,
like a suggestion of a busy world somewhere, but all so softened and toned down that it did
not jar on my tranquillity. There was a crackling fire of green logs as large as the guides
could lift and lay on, and they simmered in the blaze, and lit up the surrounding tree-trunks
and the overhanging foliage, and faintly explored the recesses of the forest beyond. I lay
on the blankets, and near to me seemed to sit my dæmon, ready to be questioned.

At this instant there came a doubt of the theological position of my ghostly vis-a-vis, and
I abruptly thought the question, "Who are you?"

"Nobody," replied the dæmon, oracularly.

This I knew in one sense to be true; and I replied, "But you know what I mean. Don't trifle.
Of what nature is your personality?"

"Do you think," it replied, "that personality is necessary to existence? We are spirit."

"But wherein, save in the having or not having a body, do you differ from me?"

"In all the consequences of that difference."

"Very well,--go on."

"Don't you see that without your circumstances you are only half a being?--that you are shaped
by the action and reaction between your own mind and surrounding things, and that the body
is the only medium of this action and reaction? Do you not see that without this there would
have been no consciousness of self, and consequently neither individuality nor personality?
Remove those circumstances by removing the body, and do you not remove personality?"

"But," said I, "you certainly have individuality, and wherein does that differ from personality?"

"Possibly you commit two mistakes," replied the dæmon. "As to the distinction, it is one with
a difference. You are personal to yourself, individual to others; and we, though individual
to you, may be still impersonal. If spirit takes form from having something to act on, the
fact that we act on you is sufficient, so far as you are concerned, to cause an individuality."

I hesitated, puzzled.

It went on: "Don't you see that the inertia of spirit is motion, as that of matter is rest?
Now compare this universal spirit to a river flowing tranquilly, and which in itself gives
no evidence of motion, save when it meets with some inert point of resistance. This point of
resistance has the effect of action in itself, and you attribute to it all the eddies and ripples
produced. You must see that your own immobility is the cause of the phenomena of life which
give you your apparent existence;--our individuality to you may be just as much the effect
of your personality; you find us only responsive to your own mental state."

I was conscious of a sophistry somewhere, but could not, for the life of me, detect it. I thought
of the Tempter; I almost feared to listen to another word; but the dæmon seemed so fair, so
rational, and, above all, so confident of truth, that I could not entertain my fears.

"But," said I, finally, "if my personality is owing to my physical circumstances, to my body
and its immobility, what is the body itself owing to?"

"All physical or organic existence is owing to the antagonism between certain particles of
matter, fixed and resistant, and the all-pervading, ever-flowing spirit; the different inertiæ
conflict, and end by combining in an organic being, since neither can be annihilated or transmuted.
Perhaps we can tell you, by-and-by, how this antagonism commences; at present, you would scarcely
be able to comprehend it clearly."

This I felt, for I was already getting confused with the questions that occurred to me as to
the relations between spirit and matter.

I asked once more, "Have you never been personal, as I am?--have you never had a body and a name?"

"Perhaps," was the reply,--"but it must have been long since; and the trifling circumstances
which you call life, with all their direct and recognizable effects, pass away so soon, that
it is impossible to recall anything of it. There seems a kind of consciousness when we have
something to act against, as against your mind at the present moment; but as to name, and all
that kind of distinctiveness, what is the use of it where there is no possibility of confusion
or mistake as to identity? We have said that we are spirit; and when we say that spirit is
one and matter one, we have gone behind personal identity."

"But," asked I, "am I to lose my individual existence,--to become finally merged in a universal
impersonality? What, then, is the object of life?"

"You see the plants and animals all around you growing up and passing away,--each entering
its little orbit, and sweeping through this sphere of cognizance back again to the same mystery
it emerged from; you never ask the question as to them, but for yourself you are anxious. If
you had not been, would creation have been any less creation?--if you cease, will it not still
be as great? Truly, though, your mistake is one of too little, not of too much. You assume
that the animals become nothing; but, truly, nothing dies. The very crystals into which all
the so-called primitive substances are formed, and which are the first forms of organization,
have a spirit in them; for they obey something which inhabits and organizes them. If you could
decompose the crystal, would you annihilate the soul which organized it? The plant absorbs
the crystal, and it becomes a part of a higher organization, which could no more exist without
its soul; and if the plant is cut down and cast into the oven, is the organic impulse food
for the flames? You, the animal, do but exist through the absorption of these vegetable substances,
and why should you not obey the analogical law of absorption and aggregation? You killed a
deer to-day;--the flesh you will appropriate to supply the wants of your own material organization;
but the life, the spirit which made that flesh a deer, in obedience to which that shell of
external appearance is moulded,--you missed that. You can trace the body in its metamorphoses;
but for this impalpable, active, and only real part of the being,--it were folly to suppose
it more perishable, more evanescent, than the matter of which it was master. And why should
not you, as well as the deer, go back into the great Life from which you came? As to a purpose
in creation, why should there be any other than that which existence always shows,--that of
existing?"

I now began to notice that all the leading ideas which the dæmon offered were put in the form
of questions, as if from a cautious non-committalism, or as if it dared not in so many words
say that they were the absolute truth. I felt that there was another side to the matter, and
was confident that I should detect the sophistry of the dæmon; but then I did not feel able
to carry the conversation farther, and was sensible of a readiness on the part of my interlocutor
to cease. I wondered at this, and if it implied weariness on its part, when it was replied,--"We
answer to your own mind; of course, when that ceases to act, there ceases to be reaction."
I cried out in my own mind, in utter bewilderment,--"Objective or subjective?" and ceased my
questionings.

The camp-fire glowed splendidly through the overhanging branches and foliage, and I longed
for a revel of light. I asked the guides to make a "blaze," and, after a minute's delay and
an ejaculation of "Game, to your high, low, jack," they emerged from the tent and in a few
minutes had cut down several small dead spruces and piled the tops on the fire, which flashed
up through the pitchy, inflammable mass, and we had a pyrotechnical display which startled
the birds, that had gone to rest in the assurance of night, into a confused activity and clamor.
The heat penetrated the camp and gave me a drowsiness which my disturbed repose of the night
before rendered extremely grateful, and when the rest of the party returned from their row,
I was asleep.

It was determined, the next morning, in council, to move; and one of the guides having informed
us of a newly-opened carry, by which we could cross from Little Tupper's Lake, ten miles above
us, directly to Forked Lake, and thence following the usual route down the Raquette River and
through Long Lake, we could reach Martin's on Saranac Lake without retracing our steps, except
over the short distance from the Raquette through the Saranac Lakes,--after breakfast, we hurriedly
packed up our traps and were off as early as might be. It is hard boating up the Bog River,
and hard work both for guides and tourists. All the boats and baggage had to be carried three
miles, on the backs of the guides, and, help them as much as we could, the day had drawn nearly
to its close before we were fairly embarked on Little Tupper's, and we had then nearly ten
miles to go before reaching Constable's Camp, where we were to stop for the night. I worked
hard all day, but in a kind of dream, as if the dead weight I carried with weariness were only
the phantom of something, and I were a fantasy carrying it;--the actual had become visionary,
and my imaginings nudged me and jostled me almost off the path of reason. But I had no time
for a séance with my dæmon. The next day I devoted with the guides to bushing out the carry
across to Forked Lake, about three and a half miles, through perfectly pathless woods; for
we found Sam's statements as to the carry being chopped out entirely false; only a blazed line
existed; so all the guides, except one, set to work with myself bushing and chopping out, while
the other guide and the rest of the party spent the day in hunting. At the close of the day
we had completed nearly two miles of the path, and returned to Constable's Camp to sleep. The
next day we succeeded in getting the boats and baggage through to Bottle Pond, two and a half
miles, and the whole party camped on the carry,--the guides anathematizing Sam, whose advice
had led us on this road. The next afternoon found us afloat on Forked Lake, weary and glad
to be in the sunlight on blue water again. Hard work and the excitement of responsibility in
engineering our road-making operations had kept my visitor from dream-land away, and as we
paddled leisurely down the beautiful lake,--one of the few yet untouched by the lumbermen,--I
felt a healthier tone of mind than I had known since we had entered the woods. As we ran out
of one of the deep bays which constitute a large portion of the lake, into the principal sheet
of water, one of the most perfectly beautiful mountain-views I have ever seen burst upon us.
We looked down the lake to its outlet, five miles, between banks covered with tall pines, and
far away in the hazy atmosphere a chain of blue peaks raised themselves sharp-edged against
the sky. One singularly-shaped summit, far to the south, attracted my attention, and I was
about to ask its name, when Steve called out, with the air of one who communicates something
of more than ordinary significance,--"Blue Mountain!" The name, Steve's manner, and I know
not what of mysterious cause, gave to the place a strange importance. I felt a new and unaccountable
attraction to the mountain. Some enchantment seemed to be casting its glamour over me from
that distance even. There was thenceforward no goal for my wanderings but the Blue Mountain.
It is a solitary peak, one of the southernmost of the Adirondacks, of a very quaint form, and
lies in a circlet of lakes, three of which in a chain are named from the mountain. The way
by which the mountain is reached is through these lakes, and their outlet, which empties into
Raquette Lake. I had determined to remain in the woods some weeks, and now concluded to return,
as soon as I had seen the rest of the party on their way home, and take up quarters on Raquette
Lake for the rest of my stay.

That night we camped at the foot of Forked Lake, and not one of the party will ever forget
the thunder-storm that burst on us in our woods-encampment among the tall pines, two of which,
near us, were struck by the lightning. I tried in vain, when we were quiet for the night, to
get some information on the subject of my attraction to the Blue Mountain. My dæmon appeared
remote and made no responses. It seemed as if, knowing my resolution to stay alone there, it
had resolved to be silent until I was without any cause for interruption of our colloquies.
Save the consciousness of its remote attendance, I felt no recurrence of my past experience,
until, having seen my friends on the road to civilization again, I left Martin's with Steve
and Carlo for my quarters on the Raquette. We hurried back up the river as fast as four strong
arms could propel our light boat, and resting, the second night, at Wilbur's, on Raquette Lake,
I the next morning selected a site for a camp, where we built a neat little bark-house, proof
against all discomforts of an elemental character, and that night I rested under my own roof,
squatter though I was. The dæmon seemed in no haste to renew our former intimate intercourse,--for
what reason I could not divine; but a few days after my settling, days spent in exploring and
planning, it resumed suddenly its functions. It came to me out on the lake, where I had paddled
to enjoy the starlight in the delicious evening, when the sky was filled with luminous vapor,
through which the stars struggled dimly, and in which the landscape was almost as clearly visible
as by moonlight.

"Well!" said I, familiarly, as I felt it take its place by my side, "you have come back."

"Come back!" it replied; "will you never get beyond your miserable ideas of space, and learn
that there is no separation but that of feeling, no nearness but that of sympathy? If you had
cared enough for us, we should have been with you constantly."

I was anxious to get to the subject of present interest, and did not stop to discuss a point
which, in one, and the highest sense, I admitted.

"What," I asked, "was that impulse which urged me to go to the Blue Mountain? Shall I find
there anything supernatural?"

"Anything supernatural? What is there above Nature, or outside of it?"

"But nothing is without cause; and for an emotion so strong as I experienced, on the sight
of those mountains, there must have been one."

"Very likely! if you go after it, you will find it. You probably expect to find some beautiful
enchantress keeping her court on the mountain-top, and a suite of fairies."

I started, for, absurd as it may seem, that very idea, half-formed, undeveloped from very shame
at my superstition, had rested in my mind.

"And," said I, at a loss what to say, "are there no such things possible?"

"All things are possible to the imagination."

"To create?"

"Most certainly! Is not creation the act of bringing into existence? and does not your Hamlet
exist as immortally as your Shakspeare? The only true existence, is it not that of the Idea?
Have you not seen the pines transfigured?"

"And if I imagined a race of fairies inhabiting the Blue Mountain, should I find them?"

"If you imagined them, yes! But the imagination is not voluntary; it works to supply a necessity;
its function is creation, and creation is needed only to fill a vacuum. The wild Arab, feeling
his own insignificance, and comprehending the necessity for a Creating Power, finds between
himself and that Power, which to him, as to you the other day, assumes a personality, an immense
distance, and fills the space with a race half divine, half human. It was the necessity for
the fairy which created the fairy. You do not feel the same distance between yourself and a
Creator, and so you do not call into existence a creative race of the same character; but has
not your own imagination furnished you with images to which you may give your reverence? It
may be that you diminish that distance by degrading the Great First Cause to an image of your
personality, and so are not so wise as the Arab, who at once admits it to be unattainable.
Each man shapes that which he looks up to by his desires or fears, and these in their turn
are the results of his degree of development."

"But God, is not He the Supreme Creator?"

"Is it not as we said, that you measure the Supreme by yourself? Can you not comprehend a supreme
law, an order which controls all things?"

In my meditations this doubt had often presented itself to me, and I had as often put it resolutely
aside; but now to hear it urged on me in this way from this mysterious presence troubled me,
and I shrank from further discussion of the topic. I earnestly desired a fuller knowledge of
the nature of my colloquist.

"Tell me," said I, "do you not take cognizance of my personality?--do you read my past and
my future?"

"Your past and future are contained in your present. Who can analyze what you are can see the
things which made you such; for effect contains its cause;--to see the future, it needs only
to know the laws which govern all things. It is a simple problem: you being given, with the
inevitable tendencies to which you are subject, the result is your future; the flight of one
of your rifle-balls cannot be calculated with greater certainty."

"But how shall we know those laws?" said I.

"You contain them all, for you are the result of them; and they are always the same,--not one
code for your beginning, and another for your continuance. Man is the complete embodiment of
all the laws thus far developed, and you have only to know yourself to know the history of
creation."

This I could not gainsay, and my mind, wearied, declined to ask further. I returned to camp
and went to sleep.

Several days passed without any remarkable progress in my knowledge of this strange being,
though I found myself growing more and more sensitive to the presence of it each day; and at
the same time the incomprehensible sympathy with Nature, for I know not what else to call it,
seemed growing stronger and more startling in the effects it produced on the landscape. The
influence was no longer confined to twilight, but made noon-day mystical; and I began to hear
strange sounds and words spoken by disembodied voices,--not like that of my dæmon, but unaccompanied
by any feeling of personal presence connected therewith. It seemed as if the vibrations shaped
themselves into words, some of them of singular significance. I heard my name called, and the
strangest laughs on the lake at night. My dæmon seemed averse to answering any questions on
the topic of these illusions. The only reply was,--"You would be wiser, not knowing too much."

Ere many days of this solitary life had passed, I found my whole existence taken up by my fantasies.
I determined to make my excursion to the Blue Mountain, and, sending Steve down to the post-office,
a three-days' journey, I took the boat, with Carlo and my rifle, and pushed off. The outlet
of the Blue Mountain Lakes is like all the Adirondack streams, dark and shut in by forest,
which scarcely permits landing anywhere. Now and then a log fallen into the water compels the
voyager to get out and lift his boat over; then a shallow rapid must be dragged over; and when
the stream is clear of obstruction, it is too narrow for any mode of propulsion but poling
or paddling.

I had worked several weary hours, and the sun had passed the meridian, when I emerged from
the forest into a wild, swampy flat,--"wild meadow," the guides call it,--through which the
stream wound, and around which was a growth of tall larches backed by pines. Where the brook
seemed to reënter the wood on the opposite side, stood two immense pines, like sentinels, and
such they became to me; and they looked grim and threatening, with their huge arms reaching
over the gateway. I drew my boat up on the boggy shore at the foot of a solitary tamarack,
into which I climbed as high as I could to look over the wood beyond.

Never shall I forget what I saw from that swaying look-out. Before me was the mountain, perhaps
five miles away, covered with dense forest to within a few hundred feet of the summit, which
showed bare rock with firs clinging in the clefts and on the tables, and which was crowned
by a walled city, the parapet of whose walls cut with a sharp, straight line against the sky,
and beyond showed spire and turret and the tops of tall trees. The walls must have been at
least a hundred and fifty feet high, and I could see here and there between the group of firs
traces of a road coming down the mountain-side. And I heard one of those mocking voices say,
"The city of silence!"--nothing more. I felt strongly tempted to start on a flight through
the air towards the city, and why I did not launch forth on the impulse I know not. My blood
rushed through my veins with maddest energy, and my brain seemed to have been replaced by some
ethereal substance, and to be capable of floating me off as if it were a balloon. Yet I clung
and looked, my whole soul in my eyes, and had no thought of losing the spectacle for an instant,
even were it to reach the city itself. The glorious glamour of that place and moment, who can
comprehend it? The wind swung my tree-top to and fro, and I climbed up until the tree bent
with my weight like a twig under a bird's.

Presently I heard bells and strains of music, as though all the military bands in the city
were coming together on the walls; and the sounds rose and fell with the wind,--one moment
entirely lost, another full and triumphant. Then I heard the sound of hunting-horns and the
baying of a pack of hounds, deep-mouthed, as if a hunting-party were coming down the mountain-side.
Nearer and nearer they came, and I heard merry laughing and shouting as they swept through
the valley. I feared for a moment that they would find me there, and drive me, intruding, from
the enchanted land.

But I must fathom the mystery, let what would come. I descended the tree, and when I had reached
the boat again I found the whole thing changed. I understood that my city was only granite
and fir-trees, and my music only the wind in the tree-tops. The reaction was sickening; the
sunshine seemed dull and cold after the lost glory of that enchantment. The Blue Mountain was
reached, its destiny fulfilled for me, and I returned to my camp, sick at heart, as one who
has had a dear illusion dispelled.

The next day my mind was unusually calm and clear. I asked my dæmon what was the meaning of
the enchantment of yesterday.

"It was a freak of your imagination," it replied.

"But what is this imagination, then, which, being a faculty of my own, yet masters my reason?"

"Not at all a faculty, but your very highest self, your own life in creative activity. Your
reason is a faculty, and is subordinate to the purposes of your imagination. If, instead of
regarding imagination as a pendant to your mental organization, you take it for what it is,
a function, and the noblest one your mind knows, you will see at once why it is that it works
unconsciously, just as you live unconsciously and involuntarily. Men set their reason and feeling
to subdue what they consider a treacherous element in themselves; they succeed only in dwarfing
their natures, and imagination is inert while reason controls; but when reason rests in sleep,
and you cease to live to the external world, imagination resumes its normal power. You dream;--it
is only the revival of that which you smother when you are awake. You consider the sights and
sounds of yesterday follies; you reason;--imagination demonstrates its power by overturning
your reason and deceiving your very senses."

"You speak of its creations; I understand this in a certain sense; but if these were such,
should not they have permanence? and can anything created perish?"

"Nonsense! what will these trees be tomorrow? and the rocks you sit on, are they not changing
to vegetation under you? The only creation is that of ideas; things are thin shadows. If man
is not creative, he is still undeveloped."

"But is not such an assumption trenching on the supremacy of God?" I asked.

"What do you understand by 'God?'"

"An infinitely wise and loving Controller of events, of course," I replied.

"Did you ever find any one whose ideas on the subject agreed with yours?"

"Not entirely."

"Then your God is not the same as the God of other men; from the Fee-Jeean to the Christian
there is a wide range. Of course there is a first great principle of life; but this personality
you all worship, is it not a creation?"

I now felt this to be the great point of the demon's urging; it recurred too often not to be
designed. Led on by the sophistry of my tempter, I had floated unconsciously to this issue,
practically admitting all; but when this suggestion stood completely unclothed before me, my
soul rose in horror at the abyss before it. For an instant all was chaos, and the very order
of Nature seemed disorder. Life and light vanished from the face of the earth; my night made
all things dead and dark. A universe without a God! Creation seemed to me for that moment but
a galvanized corse. What my emotions were no human being who has not felt them can conceive.
My first impulse was to suicide; with the next I cried from the depths of my despair, "God
deliver me from the body of this death!" It was but a moment,--and there came, in the place
of the cold questioning voice of my dæmon, one of ineffable music, repeating words familiar
to me from childhood, words linked to everything loved and lovely in my past:--"Ye believe
in God, believe also in me." The hot tears for another moment blotted out the world from sight.
I said once more to the questioner, "Now who are you?"

"Your own doubts," was the reply; and it seemed as if only I spoke to myself.

Since that day I have never reasoned with my doubts, never doubted my imagination.

ALL'S WELL.

    Sweet-voicèd Hope, thy fine discourse
      Foretold not half life's good to me;
    Thy painter, Fancy, hath not force
      To show how sweet it is to be!
        Thy witching dream
        And pictured scheme
    To match the fact still want the power;
      Thy promise brave
      From birth to grave
    Life's boon may beggar in an hour.

    O wealth of life beyond all bound!
      Eternity each moment given!
    What plummet may the Present sound?
      Who promises a future heaven?
        Or glad, or grieved,
        Oppressed, relieved,
    In blackest night, or brightest day,
        Still pours the flood
        Of golden good,
    And more than heartfull fills me aye.

    My wealth is common; I possess
      No petty province, but the whole;
    What's mine alone is mine far less
      Than treasure shared by every soul.
        Talk not of store,
        Millions or more,--
    Of values which the purse may hold,--
        But this divine!
        I own the mine
    Whose grains outweigh a planet's gold.

    I have a stake in every star,
      In every beam that fills the day;
    All hearts of men my coffers are,
      My ores arterial tides convey;
        The fields, the skies,
        And sweet replies
    Of thought to thought are my gold-dust,--
        The oaks, the brooks,
        And speaking looks
    Of lovers' faith and friendship's trust.

    Life's youngest tides joy-brimming flow
      For him who lives above all years,
    Who all-immortal makes the Now,
      And is not ta'en in Time's arrears:
        His life's a hymn
        The seraphim
    Might hark to hear or help to sing,
        And to his soul
      The boundless whole
    Its bounty all doth daily bring.

    "All mine is thine," the sky-soul saith;
      "The wealth I am, must thou become:
    Richer and richer, breath by breath,--
      Immortal gain, immortal room!"

THE BIRDS OF THE PASTURE AND FOREST.

He who has always lived in the city or its suburbs, who has seldom visited the interior except
for purposes of trade, and whose walks have not often extended beyond those roads which are
bordered on each side by shops and dwelling-houses, may never have heard the birds that form
the subject of this sketch. These are the birds of the pasture and forest,--those shy, melodious
warblers, who sing only in the ancient haunts of the Dryads, and of those nymphs who waited
upon Diana in her hunting-excursions, but who are now recognized only by the beautiful plants
which, with unseen hands, they rear in the former abodes of the celestial huntress. These birds
have not probably multiplied, like the familiar birds, with the increase of human population
and the extension of agriculture. They were perhaps as numerous in the days of King Philip
as they are now. Though they do not shun mankind, they keep aloof from cultivated grounds,
living chiefly in the deep wood or on the edge of the forest, and in the bushy pasture.

There is a peculiar wildness in the songs of this class of birds, that awakens a delightful
mood of mind, similar to that which is excited by reading the figurative lyrics of a romantic
age. This feeling is, undoubtedly, to a certain extent, the effect of association. Having always
heard their notes in rude, wild, and wooded places, they never fail to bring this kind of scenery
vividly before the imagination, and their voices affect us like the sounds of mountain-streams.
There is a little Sparrow which I often hear about the shores of unfrequented ponds, and in
their untrodden islets, and never in any other situations. The sound of his voice, therefore,
always enhances the sensation of rude solitude with which I contemplate this wild and desolate
scenery. We often see him perched upon a dead tree that stands in the water, a few rods from
the shore, apparently watching our angling operations from his leafless perch, where he sings
so sweetly, that the very desolation of the scene borrows a charm from his voice that renders
every object delightful. This bird I believe to be the Fringilla palustris of Wilson.

It is certain that the notes of the solitary birds, compared with those of the Robin and Linnet,
excite a different class of sensations. I can imagine that there is a similar difference in
the flavors of a cherry and a cranberry. If the former is sweeter, the latter has a spicy zest
that is peculiar to what we call natural fruit. The effect is the same, however, whether it
be attributable to some intrinsic quality, or to association, which is indeed the source of
some of the most delightful emotions of the human soul.

Nature has made all her scenes, and the sights and sounds that accompany them, more lovely,
by causing them to be respectively suggestive of a certain class of sensations. The birds of
the pasture and forest are not frequent enough in cultivated places to be associated with the
garden or village inclosure. Nature has confined particular birds and animals to certain localities,
and thereby adds a poetic and a picturesque attraction to their features. There are also certain
flowers that cannot be cultivated in the garden, as if they were designed for the exclusive
adornment of those secluded arbors which the spade and the plough have never profaned. Here
flowers grow which are too holy for culture, and birds sing whose voices were never heard in
the cage of the voluptuary, and whose tones inspire us with a sense of freedom known only to
those who often retire from the world, to live in religious communion with Nature.

When the flowers of early summer are gone, and the graceful neottia is seen in the meadows,
extending its spiral clusters among the nodding grasses,--when the purple orchis is glowing
in the wet grounds, and the roadsides are gleaming with the yellow blossoms of the hypericum,
the merry voice of the Bobolink has ceased, and many other familiar birds have become almost
silent. At this time, if we stroll away from the farm and the orchard into more retired and
wooded haunts, we may hear, at all times of the day and at frequent intervals, the pensive
and melodious notes of the Wood-Sparrow, who sings as if he were delighted at being left almost
alone to warble and complain to the benevolent deities of the grove. He who in his youth has
made frequent visits to these pleasant and solitary places, and wished that he could live and
love forever among the wild-roses, the blushing azaleas, the red summer-lilies, and the thousands
of beautiful and sweet-scented flowers that spring up among the various spicy and fruit-bearing
shrubs which unite to form a genuine huckleberry-pasture,--he only knows the unspeakable delights
which are awakened by the sweet, simple notes of this little warbler.

The Wood-Sparrow (Fringilla pusilla) is somewhat less than a Canary, with a chestnut-colored
crown; above of a grayish brown hue, and dusky white beneath. Though he does not seem to be
a shy bird, I have never seen him in cultivated grounds, and the inmates of solitary cottages
alone are privileged to hear his notes from their windows. He loves the hills which are half
covered with young pines, viburnums, cornels, and huckleberry-bushes, and feeds upon the seeds
of grasses and wild lettuce, with occasional repasts of insects and berries.

His notes are sweet and plaintive, seldom consisting of more than one strain. He commences
slowly, as if repeating the syllable, de de de de de de d' d' d' d' d' d' d' r' r' r',--increasing
in rapidity, and at the same time rising as it were by semi-tones, or chromatically, to about
a major fourth on the scale. In midsummer, when this bird is most musical, he occasionally
lengthens his song by alternately ascending and descending, interposing a few chirping notes
between the ascending and descending series. The song loses a part of its simplicity, and,
as it seems to me, is not improved by this variation.

While listening to the notes of the Wood-Sparrow, we are continually saluted by the agreeable,
though less musical song of the Chewink, or Ground-Robin,--a bird that frequents similar places.
This is a very beautiful bird, elegantly spotted with white, red, and black,--the female being
of a bright bay color where the male is red. Every rambler knows him, not only by his plumage
and his peculiar note, but also by his singular habit of lurking about among the bushes, appearing
and disappearing like a squirrel, and watching all our movements. Though he does not avoid
our company, it is with difficulty that a marksman can obtain a good aim at him, so rapidly
does he change his position among the leaves and branches. In this habit he resembles the Wren.
While we are watching his motions, he pauses in his song, and utters that peculiar note of
complaint from which he has derived his name, Chewink, though the sound he utters is more like
chewee, accenting the second syllable.

The Chewink (Fringilla erythrophthalma) is a very constant singer during four months of the
year, from the middle of April. He is very untiring in his lays, seldom resting for any considerable
time from morning till night, being never weary in rain or in sunshine, or at noon-day in the
hottest weather of the season. His song consists of two long notes, the first about a third
above the second, and the last part is made up of several rapidly uttered notes about one tone
below the first note.

There is an expression of great cheerfulness in these notes; but music, like poetry, must be
somewhat plaintive in its character, to take strong hold of the feelings. I have never known
a person to be affected by these notes as by those of the Wood-Sparrow. While engaged in singing,
the Chewink is usually perched on the lower branch of a tree, near the edge of a wood, or on
the top of a tall bush. He is a true forest-bird, and builds his nest in the thickets that
conceal the boundaries of the wood.

The notes of the Chewink and his general appearance and habits are well calculated to render
him conspicuous, and they cause him to be always noticed and remembered. Our birds are like
our men of genius. As in the literary world there is a description of talent that must be discovered
and pointed out by an observing few, before the great mass can understand it or even know its
existence,--so the sweetest songsters of the wood are unknown to the mass of the community,
while many very ordinary performers, whose talents are conspicuous, are universally known and
admired.

As we advance into the wood, if it be near mid-day, or before the decline of the sun, the notes
of two small birds will be sure to attract our attention. These notes are very similar, and
as slender and piercing as the chirp of a grasshopper, being distinguished from the latter
only by a different and more pleasing modulation. The birds to which I refer are the Red Start
(Muscicapa ruticilla) and the Speckled Creeper (Sylvia varia). The first is the more rarely
seen of the two, being a bird of the deep forest, and shunning observation by hiding himself
in the most obscure parts of the wood. In general appearance, and in the color of his plumage,
he bears a resemblance to the Ground-Robin, though not more than half his size. He lives entirely
on insects, catching them while they are flying in the air.

His song is similar to that of the Summer Yellow-Bird, so common in our gardens among the fruit-trees,
but it is more shrill and feeble. The Creeper's song does not differ from it more than the
songs of different individuals of the same species may differ. This bird may be seen creeping
like a Woodpecker around the branches of trees, feeding upon the grubs and insects that are
lodged upon the bark. He often leaves the forest, and may be seen busily searching the trees
in the orchard and garden. The restless activity of the birds of this species affords a proof
of the countless myriads of insects that must be destroyed by them in the course of one season,--insects
which, if not kept in check by these and other small birds, would multiply to such an extreme
as to render the earth uninhabitable by man.

While listening with close attention to the slender notes of either of the last-named birds,
often hardly audible amidst the din of grasshoppers, the rustling of leaves, and the sighing
of winds among the tall oaken boughs, suddenly the wood resounds with a loud, shrill song,
like the sharpest notes of the Canary. The bird that startles one with this vociferous note
is the Oven-Bird, (Turdus aurocapillus), or Golden-Crowned Thrush. It is the smallest of the
Thrushes, is confined exclusively to the wood, and when singing is particularly partial to
noon-day. There is no melody in his song. He begins rather low, increasing in loudness as he
proceeds, until the last notes are so loud as to seem almost in our immediate presence. He
might be supposed to utter His words, I see, I see, I see, etc.,--emphasizing the first word,
and repeating the words six or eight times, louder and louder with each repetition. No other
bird equals this little Thrush in the emphasis with which he delivers his brief communication.
His notes are associated with summer noon-days in the deep woods, and, when bursting upon the
ear in the silence of noon, they disperse all melancholy thoughts, and inspire one with a vivid
consciousness of life.

The most remarkable thing connected with the history of this bird is his oven-shaped nest.
It is commonly placed on the ground, under a knoll of moss or a tuft of grass and bushes, and
is formed almost entirely of long grass neatly woven. It is covered with a roof of the same
materials, and a round opening is made at the side, for the bird's entrance. The nest is so
ingeniously covered with grass and disguised with the appearance of the general surface around
it, that it is very seldom discovered. The Cow-Bunting, however, is able to find it, and often
selects it as a depository for its own eggs.

Those who are addicted to rambling in pursuit of natural curiosities may have observed that
pine-woods are remarkable for certain collections of mosses which have cushioned a projecting
rock or the decayed stump of a tree. When weary with heat and exercise, it is delightful to
sit down upon one of these green velveted couches and take note of the objects immediately
around us. We are then prepared to hear the least sound that invades our retreat. Some of the
sweetest notes ever uttered in the wood are distinctly heard only at such times; for when we
are passing over the rustling leaves, the noise made by our progress interferes with the perfect
recognition of all delicate sounds. It was when thus reclining, after half a day's search for
flowers, under the grateful shade of a pine-tree, now watching the white clouds that sent a
brighter day-beam into these dark recesses, as they passed luminously overhead, and then noting
the peculiar mapping of the grounds underneath the wood, diversified with mosses in swelling
knolls, little islets of fern, and parterres of ginsengs and Solomon's-seals,--in one of these
cloisters of the forest, I was first greeted by the pensive note of the Green Warbler, as he
seemed to titter in supplicatory tones, very slowly modulated, "Hear me, Saint Theresa!" This
strain, as I have observed many times since, is, at certain hours, repeated constantly for
ten minutes at a time, and it is one of those melodious sounds that seem to belong exclusively
to solitude.

The Green Warbler (Sylvia virens) is a small bird, and though his notes may be familiar to
all who have been accustomed to strolling in the woods, the species is not numerous in Massachusetts,
the greater number retiring farther north in the breeding-season. Nuttall remarks in reference
to this bird, "His simple, rather drawling, and somewhat plaintive song, uttered at short intervals,
resembled the syllables 'te dé teritscá, sometimes te derisca, pronounced pretty loud and slow,
and the tones proceeded from high to low. In the intervals, he was perpetually busied in catching
small cynips, and other kinds of flies,--keeping up a smart snapping of his bill, almost similar
to the noise made by knocking pebbles together." There is a plaintive expression in this musical
supplication, that is apparent to all who hear it, no less than if the bird were truly offering
prayers to some tutelary deity. It is difficult, in many cases, to determine why a certain
combination of sounds should affect one with an emotion of sadness, while another, under the
same circumstances, produces a feeling of joy. This is a part of the philosophy of music which
has not been explained.

While treating of the Sylvias, I must not omit to notice one of the most important of the tribe,
and one with which almost everybody is acquainted,--the Maryland Yellow-Throat (Sylvia trichas).
This species is quite common and familiar. He is most frequently seen in a willow-grove that
borders a stream, or in the shrubbery of moist and low grounds. The angler is greeted by his
notes on the rushy borders of a pond, and the botanist listens to them when hunting for those
rose-plants that hide themselves under dripping rocks in some wooded ravine. The song of the
Yellow-Throat resembles that of the Warbling Vireo, delivered with somewhat more precision,
as if he were saying, I see you, I see you, I see you. His notes are simply lively and agreeable;
there is nothing plaintive about them. The bird, however, is very attractive in his appearance,
being of a bright olive-color above, with a yellow throat and breast, and a black band extending
from the nostrils over the eye. This black band and the yellow throat are the marks by which
he is most easily identified. The Yellow-Throat remains tuneful till near the last week in August.

But if we leave the wood while those above described are the only singing-birds we have heard,
we have either returned too soon, or we did not penetrate deeply enough into the forest. The
Wood-Sparrow prepared our ears for a concert more delightful than the Red Start or the Yellow-Throat
are capable of presenting, and we have spent our time almost in vain, if we have not heard
the song of the Wood-Thrush (Turdus melodus). His notes are not startling or conspicuous; some
dull ears might not hear them, though poured forth only a few rods distant, if their attention
were not directed to them. Yet they are loud, liquid, and sonorous, and they fail to attract
attention only on account of the long pauses between the different strains. We must link all
these strains together to enjoy the full pleasure which the song of this bird is capable of
affording, though any single strain alone is sufficient to entitle the bird to considerable
reputation as a songster.

The song of the Wood-Thrush consists of about eight or ten different strains, each of considerable
length. After each strain the bird makes a pause of about three or four seconds. I think the
effect of this sylvan music is somewhat diminished by the length of the pauses or rests. It
may be said, however, that during each pause our susceptibility is increased, and we are thus
prepared to be more deeply affected by the next notes. Whether the one or the other opinion
be correct, it is certain that any one who stops to listen to this bird will become spellbound,
and deaf to almost every other sound in the grove, as if his ears were enchained to the song
of the Siren.

The Wood-Thrush sings at almost all hours of the day, though seldom after sunset. He delights
in a dusky retreat, and is evidently inspired by solitude, singing no less in gloomy weather
than in sunshine. Late in August, when other birds have mostly become silent, he is sometimes
the only songster in the wood. There is a liquid sound in his tones that slightly resembles
that of a glassichord; though in some parts of the country he has received the name of Fife-Bird,
from the clearness of his intonations. By many persons this species is called the Hermit-Thrush.

The Veery (Turdus Wilsonii) has many habits like those of the Wood-Thrush, and some similarity
of song. He is about the size of a Blue-Bird, and resembles the Red Thrush, except that the
brown of his back is slightly tinged with olive. He arrives early in May, and is first heard
to sing during some part of the second week of that month, when the sons of the Bobolink commences.
He is not one of our familiar birds; and unless we live in close proximity to a wood that is
haunted by a stream, we shall never hear his voice from our doors or windows. He sings neither
in the orchard, nor the garden, nor in the suburbs of the city. He shuns the exhibitions of
art, and reserves his wild notes for those who frequent the inner sanctuary of the groves.
All who have once become familiar with his song await his arrival with impatience, and take
note of his silence in midsummer with regret. Until this little bird has arrived, I always
feel as an audience do at a concert, before the chief singer has made her appearance, while
the other performers are vainly endeavoring to soothe them by their inferior attempts.

This bird is more retiring than any other important singing-bird, except the Wood-Thrush,--being
heard only in solitary groves, and usually in the vicinity of a pond or stream. Here, especially
after sunset, he pours forth his brilliant and melancholy strains with a peculiar cadence,
and fills the whole forest with sound. It seems as if the echoes were delimited with his notes,
and took pleasure in passing them round with multiplied reverberations. I am confident this
bird refrains from singing when others are the most vocal, from the pleasure he feels in listening
either to his own notes, or to the melodious responses which others of his own kindred repeat
in different parts of the wood. Hence he chooses the dusk of evening for his vocal hour, when
the little chirping birds are mostly silent, that their voices may not interrupt his chant.
At this hour, during a period of nine or ten weeks, he charms the evening with his strains,
and often prolongs them in still weather till after dusk, and whispers them sweetly into the
ear of night.

No bird of his size has more strength of voice; but his song, though loud, is modulated with
such a sweet and flowing cadence, that it comes to the ear with all the mellowness of the softest
warbling. It would be difficult to describe his song. It seems at first to be wanting in variety.
I was long of this opinion, though I was puzzled to account for its pleasing and extraordinary
effect on the mind of the listener. The song of the Veery consists of five distinct strains
or bars. They might, perhaps, be represented on the musical staff, by commencing the first
note on D above the staff and sliding down with a trill to C, one fifth below. The second,
third, fourth, and fifth bars are repetitions of the first, except that each commences and
ends a few tones lower than the preceding.

Were we to attempt to perform these notes with an instrument adapted to the purpose, we should
probably fail, from the difficulty of imitating the peculiar trilling of the notes, and the
liquid ventriloquial sounds at the conclusion of each strain. The whole is warbled in such
a manner as to produce upon the ear the effect of harmony. It seems as if we heard two or three
concordant notes at the same moment. I have never noticed this effect in the song of any other
bird. I should judge that it might be produced by the rapid descent from the commencing note
of each strain to the last note about a fourth or fifth below, the latter being heard simultaneously
with the reverberation of the first note.

Another remarkable quality of the song is a union of brilliancy and plaintiveness. The first
effect is produced by the commencing notes of each strain, which are sudden and on a high key;
the second, by the graceful chromatic slide to the termination, which is inimitable and exceedingly
solemn. I have sometimes thought that a part of the delightful influence of these notes might
be attributable to the cloistered situations from which they were delivered. But I have occasionally
heard them while the bird was singing from a tree in an open field, when they were equally
pleasing and impressive. I am not peculiar in my admiration of this little songster. I have
observed that people who are strangers to the woods, and to the notes of birds, are always
attracted by the song of the Veery.

In my early days, when I was at school, I boarded in a house near a grove that was vocal with
these Thrushes; and it was then I learned to love their song more than any other sound in Nature,
and above the finest strains of artificial music. Since that time I have lived in town, apart
from their sylvan retreats, which I have visited only during my hours of leisure; but I have
seldom failed, each returning year, to make frequent visits to the wood to listen to their
notes, which cause full half the pleasure I derive from a summer-evening walk. If in any year
I fail to hear the song of the Veery, I feel a painful sense of regret, as when I have missed
an opportunity to see an absent friend, during a periodical visit.

The Veery is not one of our latest singers. His notes are not often heard after the middle of July.

We should not be obliged to penetrate the wood to learn the habits of another Thrush, not so
remarkable for his musical powers as interesting on account of his manners. I allude to the
Cat-Bird, (Turdus felivox,) well known from his disagreeable habit of mewing like a kitten.
He is most frequently seen on the edge of a wood, among the bushes that have come up, as it
were, to hide its baldness and to harmonize it with the plain. He is usually attached to low,
moist, and retired situations, though he is often very familiar in his habits. His nest of
dry sticks is sometimes woven into a currant-bush in a garden that adjoins a wood, and his
quaint voice may be heard there as in his own solitary haunts. The Cat-Bird is not an inveterate
singer, and never seems to make music his employment, though at any hour of the day, from dawn
until dusk in the evening, he may be heard occasionally singing and complaining.

Though I have been all my life familiar with the notes and manners of the Cat-Bird, I have
not yet been able to discover that he is a mocker. He seems to me to have a definite song,
unlike that of any other bird, except the Red Mavis,--not made up of parts of the songs of
other birds, but as unique and original as that of the Song-Sparrow or the Robin. In the songs
of all birds we may detect occasional strains that resemble parts of the song of some other
species; but the Cat-Bird gives no more of these imitations than we might reasonably regard
as accidental. The modulation of his song is somewhat similar to that of the Red Thrush, and
it is sometimes difficult to determine, at first, when the bird is out of sight, whether we
are listening to the one or the other; but after a few seconds, we detect one of those quaint
turns that distinguish the notes of the Cat-Bird. I never yet mistook the note of the Cat-Bird
for that of any species except the Red Thrush. The truth is, that the Thrushes, though delightful
songsters, possess inferior powers of execution, and cannot equal the Finches in their capacity
of learning and performing the notes of other birds. Even the Mocking-Bird, as compared with
many other species, is a very imperfect imitator of any notes which are difficult of execution.

The mewing note of the Cat-Bird, from which his name is derived, has been the occasion of many
misfortunes to his species, causing them to share a portion of that contempt which almost every
human being feels towards the feline race, and that contempt has been followed by persecution.
The Cat-Bird has always been proscribed by the New England farmers, who from the first settlement
of the country have entertained a prejudice against many of the most useful birds. The Robin
and a few diminutive Fly-Catchers are almost the only exceptions. But the Robin is now in danger
of proscription. Within a few years past, the horticulturists, who are unwilling lo lose their
cherries for the general benefit of agriculture, have made an effort to obtain an edict of
outlawry against him, accusing him of being entirely useless to the farmer and the gardener.
Their efforts have caused the friends of the Robin to examine his claims to protection, and
the result of their investigations is demonstrative proof that the Robin is among the most
useful birds in existence. The Cat-Bird and other Thrushes are similar in their habits of feeding
and in their services to agriculture.

The Red Mavis (Turdus rufus) has many habits similar to those of the Cat-Bird, but he is not
partial to low grounds. He is one of the most remarkable of the American birds, and is generally
considered the finest songster in the New England forest. Nuttall says, "He is inferior only
to the Mocking-Bird in musical talent"; but I should question his inferiority. He is superior
to the Mocking-Bird in variety, and is surpassed by him only in the intonation of some of his
notes. But no person is ever tired of listening to the Red Mavis, who constantly varies his
song, while the Mocking-Bird tires us with his repetitions, which are often continued to a
ludicrous extreme.

It is unfortunate that our ornithologists should, in any cases, have adopted the disagreeable
names which our singularly unpoetical countrymen have given to the birds. The little Hair-Bird,
for example, is called the "Chipping-Sparrow," as if he were in the habit of making chips,
like the Carpenter-Bird; and the Red Thrush is called the "Thrasher," which is a low corruption
of Thrush, and would signify that the bird had some peculiar habit of threshing with his wings.
The word "chipping," when used for "chirping," is incorrect English; and "thrasher" is incorrect
in point of fact. No such names should find sanction in books. Let us repudiate the name of
"Thrasher" for the Red Thrush, as we would repudiate any other solecism.

The Red Mavis, or Thrush, is most musical in the early part of the season, when he first arrives,
or in the month of May; the Veery is most vocal in June, and the Wood-Thrush in July; the Cat-Bird
begins early and sings late, and fills out with his quaint notes the remainder of the singing
season, after the others have become silent. When one is in a thoughtful mood, the songs of
the Wood-Thrush and the Veery surpass all others on their delightful influence; and when I
am strolling in the solitary pastures, it seems to me that nothing can exceed the simple melody
of the Wood-Sparrow. But without claiming for the Red Thrush any remarkable power of exciting
poetic inspiration, his song in the open field has a charm for all ears, and can be appreciated
by the dullest of minds. Without singing badly, he pleases the millions. He sings occasionally
at all hours of the day, and, when employed in singing, devotes himself entirely to song, with
evident enthusiasm.

It would be difficult, either by word or by note, to give one who has never heard the song
of the Red Thrush a correct idea of it. This bird is not a rapid singer. His performances seem
to be a sort of recitative, often resembling spoken words, rather than musical notes, many
of which are short and guttural. He seldom whistles clearly, like the Robin, but he produces
a charming variety of tone and modulation.

We have now left the forest and are approaching the cultivated grounds, under the shade of
those fully expanded trees which have grown without restraint in the open field. Here as well
as in the wood we find the Pewee, or Phoebe. (Muscicapa nunciola,) one of our most common and
interesting birds. He seems to court solitude, and his peculiar note harmonizes well with his
obscure and shady retreats. He sits for the most part in the shade, catching his feast of insects
without any noise, merely flitting from his perch, seizing his prey, and then resuming his
station. This movement is performed in the most graceful manner, and he often turns a somerset,
or appears to do so, if the insect at first evades his pursuit,--and he seldom fails in capturing
it. All this is done in silence, for he is no singer. The only sounds he utters are an occasional
clicking cherup, and now and then, with a plaintive cadence, he seems to speak the word pewee.
As the male and female bird cannot be readily distinguished, I have not been able to determine
whether this sound is uttered by both sexes, or by the male alone.

So plainly expressive of sadness is this peculiar note, that it is difficult to believe that
the little being that utters it can be free from sorrow. Certainly he can have no congeniality
of feeling with the sprightly Bobolink. Perhaps, with the rest of his species, he represents
only the fragment of a superior race, which, according to the metempsychosis, have fallen from
their original importance, and this melancholy note is but the partial utterance of sorrow
that still lingers in their breasts after the occasion of it is forgotten.

Though a shy and retiring bird, the Pewee is known to almost every person, on account of its
remarkable note. Like the swallow, he builds his nest under a sheltering roof or rock, and
it is often fixed upon a beam or plank under a bridge that crosses a small stream. Near this
place he takes his station, on the branch of a tree or the top of a fence, and sits patiently
waiting for every moth, chafer, or butterfly that passes along. Fortunately, there are no prejudices
existing in the community against this bird that provoke men to destroy him. As he is known
to feed entirely on insects, he cannot be suspected of doing mischief on the farm or in the
garden, and is considered worthy of protection.

I would remark in this place, that the Fly-Catchers and Swallows, and a few other species that
enjoy an immunity in our land, would, though multiplied to infinity, perform only those offices
which are assigned them by Nature. It is a vain hope that leads one to believe, while he is
engaged in exterminating a certain species of small birds, that their places can be supplied
and their services performed by other species which are allowed to multiply to excess. The
preservation of every species of indigenous birds is the only means that can prevent the over-multiplication
of injurious insects.

As we return homeward, we soon find ourselves surrounded by the familiar birds that shun the
forest and assemble around the habitations of men. Among them the Blue-Bird meets our sight,
upon the roofs and fences as well as in the field and orchard. At the risk of introducing him
into a company to which he does not strictly belong, I will attempt in this place to describe
some of his habits. The Blue-Bird (Sylvia sialis) arrives very early in spring, and is detained
late in the autumn by his habit of raising two or more broods of young in the season. He is
said to bear a strong resemblance to the English Robin-Redbreast, being similar in form and
size, each having a red breast and short tail-feathers, with only this manifest difference,
that one is olive-colored above where the other is blue. But the Blue-Bird does not equal the
Redbreast as a songster. His notes are few, not greatly varied, though melodious and sweetly
and plaintively modulated, and never loud. On account of their want of variety, they do not
enchain a listener, but they constitute a delightful part in the woodland melodies of morn.

The importance of the inferior singers in making up a general chorus is not always appreciated.
In an artificial musical composition, as in an oratorio or an anthem, though there is a leading
part, which is commonly the air, that gives character to the whole, yet this principal part
would often be a very indifferent piece of melody, if performed without its accompaniments.
These accompaniments by themselves would seem still more unimportant and trifling. Yet if the
composition be the work of a master, however trifling and comparatively insignificant these
brief strains or snatches, they are intimately connected with the harmony of the piece, and
could not be omitted without a serious derangement of the grand effect. The inferior singing-birds,
on the same principle, are indispensable as aids in giving additional effect to the notes of
the chief singers.

Though the Robin is the principal musician in the general orison of dawn, his notes would become
tiresome, if heard without accompaniments. Nature has so arranged the harmony of this chorus,
that one part shall assist another; and so exquisitely has she combined all the different voices,
that the silence of any one can never fail to be immediately perceived. The low, mellow warble
of the Blue-Bird seems a sort of echo to the louder voice of the Robin; and the incessant trilling
or running accompaniment of the Hair-Bird, the twittering of the Swallow, and the loud and
melodious piping of the Oriole, frequent and short, are sounded like the different parts of
a regular band of instruments, and each performer seems to time his part as if by design. Any
discordant sound, that may happen to be made in the midst of this performance, never fails
to disturb the equanimity of the singers, and some minutes must elapse before they recommence
their parts.

It would be difficult to draw a correct comparison between the different birds and the various
instruments in an orchestra. It would be more easy to signify them by notes on the gamut. But
if the Robin were supposed to represent the German flute, the Blue-Bird might be considered
as the flageolet, frequently, but not incessantly, interposing a few mellow strains, the Swallow
and the Hair-Bird the octave flute, and the Golden Robin the bugle, sounding occasionally a
low but brief strain. The analogy could not be carried farther without losing force and correctness.

All the notes of the Blue-Bird--his call-notes, his notes of alarm, his chirp, and his song--are
equally plaintive, and closely resemble each other. I am not aware that this bird ever utters
a harsh note. His voice, which is one of the earliest to be heard in the spring, is associated
with the early flowers and with all pleasant vernal influences. When he first arrives, he perches
upon the roof of a barn or upon some still leafless tree, and pours forth his few and frequent
notes with evident fervor, as if conscious of the delights that await him. These mellow notes
are all the sounds he titters for several weeks, seldom chirping, crying, or scolding like
other birds. His song is discontinued in the latter part of summer; but his peculiar plaintive
call, consisting of a single note pensively modulated, continues all day, until the time of
frost. This sound is one of the melodies of summer's decline, and reminds us, like the notes
of the green nocturnal grasshopper, of the fall of the leaf, the ripened harvest, and all the
melancholy pleasures of autumn.

The Blue-Bird builds his nest in hollow trees and posts, and may be encouraged to breed and
multiply around our habitations, by erecting boxes for his accommodation. In whatever vicinity
we may reside, whether in the clearing or in the heart of the village, if we set up a little
bird-house in May, it will certainly be occupied by a Blue-Bird, unless preoccupied by a bird
of some other species. There is commonly so great a demand for such accommodations among the
feathered tribes, that it is not unusual to see birds of several different species contending
for the possession of one box.

After the middle of August, as a new race of winged creatures awake into life, the birds, who
sing of the seed-time, the flowers, and of the early summer harvests, give place to the inferior
band of insect-musicians. The reed and the pipe are laid aside, and myriads of little performers
have taken up the harp and the lute, and make the air resound with the clash and din of their
various instruments. An anthem of rejoicing swells up from myriads of unseen harpists, who
heed not the fate that awaits them, but make themselves merry in every place that is visited
by sunshine or the south-wind. The golden-rod sways its beautiful nodding plumes in the borders
of the fields and by the rustic roadsides; the purple gerardia is bright in the wet meadows,
and the scarlet lobelia in the channels of the sunken streamlets. But the birds heed them not;
for these are not the wreaths that decorate the halls of their festivities. Since the rose
and the lily have faded, they have ceased to be tuneful; some, like the Bobolink, assemble
in small companies, and with a melancholy chirp seem to mourn over some sad accident that has
befallen them; others still congregate about their usual resorts, and seem almost like strangers
in the land.

Nature provides inspiration for every sentiment that contributes to the happiness of man, as
she provides sustenance for his various physical wants. But all is not gladness that elevates
the soul into bliss; we may be made happy by sentiments that come not from rejoicing, even
from objects that waken tender recollections of sorrow. As if Nature designed that the soul
of man should find sympathy, in all its healthful moods, from the voices of her creatures,
and from the sounds of inanimate objects, she has provided that all seasons should pour into
his ear some pleasant intimations of heaven. In autumn, when the harvest-hymn of the day-time
has ceased, at early nightfall, the green nocturnal grasshoppers commence their autumnal dirge,
and fill the mind with a keen sense of the rapid passing of time. These sounds do not sadden
the mind, but deepen the tone of our feelings, and prepare us for a renewal of cheerfulness,
by inspiring us with the poetic sentiment of melancholy. This sombre state of the mind soon
passes away, effaced by the exhilarating influence of the clear skies and invigorating breezes
of autumn, and the inspiriting sounds of myriads of chirping insects that awake with the morning
and make all the meadows resound with the shout of their merry voices.

SONG OF THE WOOD-SPARROW.

NOTE.--In the early part of the season the song ends with the first double bar; later in the
season it is extended, in frequent instances, as in the notes that follow.

SONG OF THE CHEWINK.

SONG OF THE GREEN WARBLER.

SONG OF THE WOOD-THRUSH.

NOTE.--I have not been able to detect any order in the succession of these strains, though
some order undoubtedly exists, and might be discovered by long-continued observation. The intervals
in the above sketch cannot be given with exactness.

SONG OF THE VEERY.

or,

NOTE.--I am far from being satisfied with the above representation of the song of the Veery,
in which there are certain trilling and liquid sounds that hardly admit of notation.

SONG OF THE RED MAVIS.

pull it up pull it up tut tut tut see see see there you have it hae it hae it

see tut tut work away work away drop it drop it cover it up cover it up.]

NOTE.--The Red Mavis makes a short pause at the end of each bar. These pauses are irregular
in time, and cannot be correctly noted.

NOTE OF THE PEWEE.

SONG OF THE BLUE-BIRD.

THE MINISTER'S WOOING.

CHAPTER I.

Mrs. Katy Scudder had invited Mrs. Brown, and Mrs. Jones, and Deacon Twitchel's wife to take
tea with her on the afternoon of June second, A.D. 17--.

When one has a story to tell, one is always puzzled which end of it to begin at. You have a
whole corps of people to introduce that you know and your reader doesn't; and one thing so
presupposes another, that, whichever way you turn your patchwork, the figures still seem ill-arranged.
The small item that I have given will do as well as any other to begin with, as it certainly
will lead you to ask, "Pray, who was Mrs. Katy Scudder?"--and this will start me systematically
on my story.

You must understand that in the then small seaport-town of Newport, at that time unconscious
of its present fashion and fame, there lived nobody in those days who did not know "the Widow
Scudder."

In New England settlements a custom has obtained, which is wholesome and touching, of ennobling
the woman whom God has made desolate, by a sort of brevet rank which continually speaks for
her as a claim on the respect and consideration of the community. The Widow Jones, or Brown,
or Smith, is one of the fixed institutions of every New England village,--and doubtless the
designation acts as a continual plea for one whom bereavement, like the lightning of heaven,
has made sacred.

The Widow Scudder, however, was one of the sort of women who reign queens in whatever society
they move in; nobody was more quoted, more deferred to, or enjoyed more unquestioned position
than she. She was not rich,--a small farm, with a modest, "gambrel-roofed," one-story cottage,
was her sole domain; but she was one of the much-admired class who, in the speech of New England,
are said to have "faculty,"--a gift which, among that shrewd people, commands more esteem than
beauty, riches, learning, or any otherworldly endowment. Faculty is Yankee for savoir faire,
and the opposite virtue to shiftlessness. Faculty is the greatest virtue, and shiftlessness
the greatest vice, of Yankee man and woman. To her who has faculty nothing shall be impossible.
She shall scrub floors, wash, wring, bake, brew, and yet her hands shall be small and white;
she shall have no perceptible income, yet always be handsomely dressed; she shall have not
a servant in her house,--with a dairy to manage, hired men to feed, a boarder or two to care
for, unheard-of pickling and preserving to do,--and yet you commonly see her every afternoon
sitting at her shady parlor-window behind the lilacs, cool and easy, hemming muslin cap-strings,
or reading the last new book. She who hath faculty is never in a hurry, never behindhand. She
can always step over to distressed Mrs. Smith, whose jelly won't come,--and stop to show Mrs.
Jones how she makes her pickles so green,--and be ready to watch with poor old Mrs. Simpkins,
who is down with the rheumatism.

Of this genus was the Widow Scudder,--or, as the neighbors would have said of her, she that
was Katy Stephens. Katy was the only daughter of a shipmaster, sailing from Newport harbor,
who was wrecked off the coast one cold December night and left small fortune to his widow and
only child. Katy grew up, however, a tall, straight, black-eyed girl, with eyebrows drawn true
as a bow, a foot arched like a Spanish woman's, and a little hand which never saw the thing
it could not do,--quick of speech, ready of wit, and, as such girls have a right to be, somewhat
positive withal. Katy could harness a chaise, or row a boat; she could saddle and ride any
horse in the neighborhood; she could cut any garment that ever was seen or thought of; make
cake, jelly, and wine, from her earliest years, in most precocious style;--all without seeming
to derange a sort of trim, well-kept air of ladyhood that sat jauntily on her.

Of course, being young and lively, she had her admirers, and some well-to-do in worldly affairs
laid their lands and houses at Katy's feet; but, to the wonder of all, she would not even pick
them up to look at them. People shook their heads, and wondered whom Katy Stephens expected
to get, and talked about going through the wood to pick up a crooked stick,--till one day she
astonished her world by marrying a man that nobody ever thought of her taking.

George Scudder was a grave, thoughtful young man,--not given to talking, and silent in the
society of women, with that kind of reverential bashfulness which sometimes shows a pure, unworldly
nature. How Katy came to fancy him everybody wondered,--for he never talked to her, never so
much as picked up her glove when it fell, never asked her to ride or sail; in short, everybody
said she must have wanted him from sheer wilfulness, because he of all the young men of the
neighborhood never courted her. But Katy, having very sharp eyes, saw some things that nobody
else saw. For example, you must know she discovered by mere accident that George Scudder always
was looking at her, wherever she moved, though he looked away in a moment, if discovered,--and
that an accidental touch of her hand or brush of her dress would send the blood into his cheek
like the spirit in the tube of a thermometer; and so, as women are curious, you know, Katy
amused herself with investigating the causes of these little phenomena, and, before she knew
it, got her foot caught in a cobweb that held her fast, and constrained her, whether she would
or no, to marry a poor man that nobody cared much for but herself.

George was, in truth, one of the sort who evidently have made some mistake in coming into this
world at all, as their internal furniture is in no way suited to its general courses and currents.
He was of the order of dumb poets,--most wretched when put to the grind of the hard and actual;
for if he who would utter poetry stretches out his hand to a gainsaying world, he is worse
off still who is possessed with the desire of living it. Especially is this the case, if he
be born poor, and with a dire necessity upon him of making immediate efforts in the hard and
actual. George had a helpless invalid mother to support; so, though he loved reading and silent
thought above all things, he put to instant use the only convertible worldly talent he possessed,
which was a mechanical genius, and shipped at sixteen as a ship-carpenter. He studied navigation
in the forecastle, and found in its calm diagrams and tranquil eternal signs food for his thoughtful
nature, and a refuge from the brutality and coarseness of sea-life. He had a healthful, kindly
animal nature, and so his inwardness did not ferment and turn to Byronic sourness and bitterness;
nor did he needlessly parade to everybody in his vicinity the great gulf which lay between
him and them. He was called a good fellow,--only a little lumpish,--and as he was brave and
faithful, he rose in time to be a shipmaster. But when came the business of making money, the
aptitude for accumulating, George found himself distanced by many a one with not half his general
powers.

What shall a man do with a sublime tier of moral faculties, when the most profitable business
out of his port is the slave-trade? So it was in Newport in those days. George's first voyage
was on a slaver, and he wished himself dead many a time before it was over,--and ever after
would talk like a man beside himself, if the subject was named. He declared that the gold made
in it was distilled from human blood, from mothers' tears, from the agonies and dying groans
of gasping, suffocating men and women, and that it would scar and blister the soul of him that
touched it; in short, he talked as whole-souled unpractical fellows are apt to talk about what
respectable people sometimes do. Nobody had ever instructed him that a slave-ship, with a procession
of expectant sharks in its wake, is a missionary institution, by which closely-packed heathens
are brought over to enjoy the light of the gospel.

So, though George was acknowledged to be a good fellow, and honest as the noon-mark on the
kitchen floor, he let slip so many chances of making money as seriously to compromise his reputation
among thriving folks. He was wastefully generous,--insisted on treating every poor dog that
came in his way, in any foreign port, as a brother,--absolutely refused to be party in cheating
or deceiving the heathen on any shore, or in skin of any color,--and also took pains, as far
as in him lay, to spoil any bargains which any of his subordinates founded on the ignorance
or weakness of his fellow-men. So he made voyage after voyage, and gained only his wages and
the reputation among his employers of an incorruptibly honest fellow.

To be sure, it was said that he carried out books in his ship, and read and studied, and wrote
observations on all the countries he saw, which Parson Smith told Miss Dolly Persimmon would
really do credit to a printed book; but then they never were printed, or, as Miss Dolly remarked
of them, they never seemed to come to anything,--and coming to anything, as she understood
it, meant standing in definite relations to bread and butter.

George never cared, however, for money. He made enough to keep his mother comfortable, and
that was enough for him, till he fell in love with Katy Stephens. He looked at her through
those glasses which such men carry in their souls, and she was a mortal woman no longer, but
a transfigured, glorified creature,--an object of awe and wonder. He was actually afraid of
her; her glove, her shoe, her needle, thread, and thimble, her bonnet-string, everything, in
short, she wore or touched, became invested with a mysterious charm. He wondered at the impudence
of men that could walk up and talk to her,--that could ask her to dance with such an assured
air. Now he wished he were rich; he dreamed impossible chances of his coming home a millionnaire
to lay unknown wealth at Katy's feet; and when Miss Persimmon, the ambulatory dress-maker of
the neighborhood, in making up a new black gown for his mother, recounted how Captain Blatherem
had sent Katy Stephens "'most the splendidest India shawl that ever she did see," he was ready
to tear his hair at the thought of his poverty. But even in that hour of temptation he did
not repent that he had refused all part and lot in the ship by which Captain Blatherem's money
was made, for he knew every timber of it to be seasoned by the groans and saturated with the
sweat of human agony. True love is a natural sacrament; and if ever a young man thanks God
for having saved what is noble and manly in his soul, it is when he thinks of offering it to
the woman he loves. Nevertheless, the India-shawl story cost him a night's rest; nor was it
till Miss Persimmon had ascertained, by a private confabulation with Katy's mother, that she
had indignantly rejected it, and that she treated the Captain "real ridiculous," that he began
to take heart. "He ought not," he said, "to stand in her way now, when he had nothing to offer.
No, he would leave Katy free to do better, if she could; he would try his luck, and if, when
he came home from the next voyage, Katy was disengaged, why, then he would lay all at her feet."

And so George was going to sea with a secret shrine in his soul, at which he was to burn unsuspected
incense.

But, after all, the mortal maiden whom he adored suspected this private arrangement, and contrived--as
women will--to get her own key into the lock of his secret temple; because, as girls say, "she
was determined to know what was there." So, one night, she met him quite accidentally on the
sea-sands, struck up a little conversation, and begged him in such a pretty way to bring her
a spotted shell from the South Sea like the one on his mother's mantel-piece, and looked so
simple and childlike in saying it, that our young man very imprudently committed himself by
remarking, that, "When people had rich friends to bring them all the world from foreign parts,
he never dreamed of her wanting so trivial a thing."

Of course Katy "didn't know what he meant,--she hadn't heard of any rich friends." And then
came something about Captain Blatherem; and Katy tossed her head, and said, "If anybody wanted
to insult her, they might talk to her about Captain Blatherem,"--and then followed this, that,
and the other till finally, as you might expect, out came all that never was to have been said;
and Katy was almost frightened at the terrible earnestness of the spirit she had evoked. She
tried to laugh, and ended by crying, and saying she hardly knew what; but when she came to
herself in her own room at home, she found on her finger a ring of African gold that George
had put there, which she did not send back like Captain Blatherem's presents.

Katy was like many intensely matter-of-fact and practical women, who have not in themselves
a bit of poetry or a particle of ideality, but who yet worship these qualities in others with
the homage which the Indians paid to the unknown tongue of the first whites. They are secretly
weary of a certain conscious dryness of nature in themselves, and this weariness predisposes
them to idolize the man who brings them this unknown gift. Naturalists say that every defect
of organization has its compensation, and men of ideal natures find in the favor of women the
equivalent for their disabilities among men.

Do you remember, at Niagara, a little cataract on the American side, which throws its silver
sheeny veil over a cave called the Grot of Rainbows? Whoever stands on a rock in that grotto
sees himself in the centre of a rainbow-circle, above, below, around. In like manner, merry,
chatty, positive, busy, housewifely Katy saw herself standing in a rainbow-shrine in her lover's
inner soul, and liked to see herself so. A woman, by-the-by, must be very insensible, who is
not moved to come upon a higher plane of being, herself, by seeing how undoubtingly she is
insphered in the heart of a good and noble man. A good man's, faith in you, fair lady, if you
ever have it, will make you better and nobler even before you know it.

Katy made an excellent wife; she took home her husband's old mother and nursed her with a dutifulness
and energy worthy of all praise, and made her own keen outward faculties and deft handiness
a compensation for the defects in worldly estate. Nothing would make Katy's black eyes flash
quicker than any reflections on her husband's want of luck in the material line. "She didn't
know whose business it was, if she was satisfied. She hated these sharp, gimlet, gouging sort
of men that would put a screw between body and soul for money. George had that in him that
nobody understood. She would rather be his wife on bread and water than to take Captain Blatherem's
house, carriages, and horse, and all,--and she might have had 'em fast enough, dear knows.
She was sick of making money when she saw what sort of men could make it,"--and so on. All
which talk did her infinite credit, because at bottom she did care, and was naturally as proud
and ambitious a little minx as ever breathed, and was thoroughly grieved at heart at George's
want of worldly success; but, like a nice little Robin Redbreast, she covered up the grave
of her worldliness with the leaves of true love, and sung a "Who cares for that?" above it.

Her thrifty management of the money her husband brought her soon bought a snug little farm,
and put up the little brown gambrel-roofed cottage to which we directed your attention in the
first of our story. Children were born to them, and George found, in short intervals between
voyages, his home an earthly paradise. Ho was still sailing, with the fond illusion, in every
voyage, of making enough to remain at home,--when the yellow fever smote him under the line,
and the ship returned to Newport without its captain.

George was a Christian man;--he had been one of the first to attach himself to the unpopular
and unworldly ministry of the celebrated Dr. H., and to appreciate the sublime ideality and
unselfishness of those teachings which then were awakening new sensations in the theological
mind of New England. Katy, too, had become a professor with her husband in the same church,
and his death, in the midst of life, deepened the power of her religious impressions. She became
absorbed in religion, after the fashion of New England, where devotion is doctrinal, not ritual.
As she grew older, her energy of character, her vigor and good judgment, caused her to be regarded
as a mother in Israel; the minister boarded at her house, and it was she who was first to be
consulted in all matters relating to the well-being of the church. No woman could more manfully
breast a long sermon, or bring a more determined faith to the reception of a difficult doctrine.
To say the truth, there lay at the bottom of her doctrinal system this stable corner-stone,--"Mr.
Scudder used to believe it,--I will." And after all that is paid about independent thought,
isn't the fact, that a just and good soul has thus or thus believed, a more respectable argument
than many that often are adduced? If it be not, more's the pity,--since two-thirds of the faith
in the world is built on no better foundation.

In time, George's old mother was gathered to her son, and two sons and a daughter followed
their father to the invisible,--one only remaining of the flock and she a person with whom
you and I, good reader, have joint concern in the further unfolding of our story.

CHAPTER II.

As I before remarked, Mrs. Katy Scudder had invited company to tea. Strictly speaking, it is
necessary to begin with the creation of the world, in order to give a full account of anything.
But, for popular use, something less may serve one's turn, and therefore I shall let the past
chapter suffice to introduce my story, and shall proceed to arrange my scenery and act my little
play on the supposition you know enough to understand things and persons.

Being asked to tea in our New England in the year 17-- meant something very different from
the same invitation in our more sophisticated days. In those times, people held to the singular
opinion, that the night was made to sleep in; they inferred it from a general confidence they
had in the wisdom of Mother Nature, supposing that she did not put out her lights and draw
her bed-curtains and hush all noise in her great world-house without strongly intending that
her children should go to sleep; and the consequence was, that very soon after sunset the whole
community very generally set their faces bedward, and the toll of the nine-o'clock evening-bell
had an awful solemnity in it, sounding to the full. Good society in New England in those days
very generally took its breakfast at six, its dinner at twelve, and its tea, at six. "Company
tea," however, among thrifty, industrious folk, was often taken an hour earlier, because each
of the invitées had children to put to bed, or other domestic cares at home, and, as in those
simple times people were invited because you wanted to see them, a tea-party assembled themselves
at three and held session till sundown, when each matron rolled up her knitting-work and wended
soberly home.

Though Newport, even in those early times, was not without its families which affected state
and splendor, rolled about in carriages with armorial emblazonments, and had servants in abundance
to every turn within-doors, yet there, as elsewhere in New England, the majority of the people
lived with the wholesome, thrifty simplicity of the olden time, when labor and intelligence
went hand in hand, in perhaps a greater harmony than the world has ever seen.

Our scene opens in the great old-fashioned kitchen, which, on ordinary occasions, is the family
dining and sitting-room of the Scudder family. I know fastidious moderns think that the working-room,
wherein are carried on the culinary operations of a large family, must necessarily be an untidy
and comfortless sitting-place; but it is only because they are ignorant of the marvellous workings
which pertain to the organ of "faculty," on which we have before insisted. The kitchen of a
New England matron was her throne-room, her pride; it was the habit of her life to produce
the greatest possible results there with the slightest possible discomposure; and what any
woman could do, Mrs. Katy Scudder could do par excellence. Everything there seemed to be always
done and never doing. Washing and baking, those formidable disturbers of the composure of families,
were all over with in those two or three morning-hours when we are composing ourselves for
a last nap,--and only the fluttering of linen over the green yard, on Monday mornings, proclaimed
that the dreaded solemnity of a wash had transpired. A breakfast arose there as by magic; and
in an incredibly short space after, every knife, fork, spoon, and trencher, clean and shining,
was looking as innocent and unconscious in its place as if it never had been used and never
expected to be.

The floor,--perhaps, Sir, you remember your grandmother's floor, of snowy boards sanded with
whitest sand; you remember the ancient fireplace stretching quite across one end,--a vast cavern,
in each corner of which a cozy seat might be found, distant enough to enjoy the crackle of
the great jolly wood-fire; across the room ran a dresser, on which was displayed great store
of shining pewter dishes and plates, which always shone with the same mysterious brightness;
and by the side of the fire, a commodious wooden "settee," or settle, offered repose to people
too little accustomed to luxury to ask for a cushion. Oh, that kitchen of the olden times,
the old, clean, roomy New England kitchen!--who that has breakfasted, dined, and supped in
one has not cheery visions of its thrift, its warmth, its coolness? The noon-mark on its floor
was a dial that told of some of the happiest days; thereby did we right up the shortcomings
of the solemn old clock that tick-tacked in the corner, and whose ticks seemed mysterious prophecies
of unknown good yet to arise out of the hours of life. How dreamy the winter twilight came
in there,--as yet the candles were not lighted,--when the crickets chirped around the dark
stone hearth, and shifting tongues of flame flickered and cast dancing shadows and elfish lights
on the walls, while grandmother nodded over her knitting-work, and puss purred, and old Rover
lay dreamily opening now one eye and then the other on the family group! With all our ceiled
houses, let us not forget our grandmothers' kitchens!

But we must pull up, however, and back to our subject-matter, which is in the kitchen of Mrs.
Katy Scudder, who has just put into the oven, by the fireplace, some wondrous tea-rusks, for
whose composition she is renowned. She has examined and pronounced perfect a loaf of cake,
which has been prepared for the occasion, and which, as usual, is done exactly right. The best
room, too, has been opened and aired,--the white window-curtains saluted with a friendly little
shake, as when one says, "How d'ye do?" to a friend;--for you must know, clean as our kitchen
is, we are genteel, and have something better for company. Our best room in here has a polished
little mahogany tea-table, and six mahogany chairs, with claw talons grasping balls; the white
sanded floor is crinkled in curious little waves, like those on the sea-beach; and right across
the corner stands the "buffet," as it is called, with its transparent glass doors, wherein
are displayed the solemn appurtenances of company tea-table. There you may see a set of real
China teacups, which George bought in Canton, and had marked with his and his wife's joint
initials,--a small silver cream-pitcher, which has come down as an heirloom from unknown generations,--silver
spoons and delicate China cake-plates, which have been all carefully reviewed and wiped on
napkins of Mrs. Scudder's own weaving.

Her cares now over, she stands drying her hands on a roller-towel in the kitchen, while her
only daughter, the gentle Mary, stands in the doorway with the afternoon sun streaming in spots
of flickering golden light on her smooth pale-brown hair,--a petite figure in a full stuff
petticoat and white short gown, she stands reaching up one hand and cooing to something among
the apple-blossoms,--and now a Java dove comes whirring down and settles on her finger,--and
we, that have seen pictures, think, as we look on her girlish face, with its lines of statuesque
beauty, on the tremulous, half-infantine expression of her lovely mouth, and the general air
of simplicity and purity, of some old pictures of the girlhood of the Virgin. But Mrs. Scudder
was thinking of no such Popish matter, I can assure you,--not she! I don't think you could
have done her a greater indignity than to mention her daughter in any such connection. She
had never seen a painting in her life, and therefore was not to be reminded of them; and furthermore,
the dove was evidently, for some reason, no favorite,--for she said, in a quick, imperative
tone, "Come, come, child! don't fool with that bird,--it's high time we were dressed and ready,"--and
Mary, blushing, as it would seem, even to her hair, gave a little toss, and sent the bird,
like a silver fluttering cloud, up among the rosy apple-blossoms. And now she and her mother
have gone to their respective little bedrooms for the adjustment of their toilettes, and while
the door is shut and nobody hears us, we shall talk to you about Mary.

Newport at the present day blooms like a flower-garden with young ladies of the best ton,--lovely
girls, hopes of their families, possessed of amiable tempers and immensely large trunks, and
capable of sporting ninety changes of raiment in thirty days and otherwise rapidly emptying
the purses of distressed fathers, and whom yet travellers and the world in general look upon
as genuine specimens of the kind of girls formed by American institutions.

We fancy such a one lying in a rustling silk négligée, and, amid a gentle generality of rings,
ribbons, puffs, laces, beaux, and dinner-discussion, reading our humble sketch;--and what favor
shall our poor heroine find in her eyes? For though her mother was a world of energy and "faculty,"
in herself considered, and had bestowed on this one little lone chick all the vigor and all
the care and all the training which would have sufficed for a family of sixteen, there were
no results produced which could be made appreciable in the eyes of such company. She could
not waltz or polk, or speak bad French or sing Italian songs; but, nevertheless, we must proceed
to say what was her education and what her accomplishments.

Well, then, she could both read and write fluently in the mother-tongue. She could spin both
on the little and the great wheel, and there were numberless towels, napkins, sheets, and pillow-cases
in the household store that could attest the skill of her pretty fingers. She had worked several
samplers of such rare merit, that they hung framed in different rooms of the house, exhibiting
every variety and style of possible letter in the best marking-stitch. She was skilful in all
sewing and embroidery, in all shaping and cutting, with a quiet and deft handiness that constantly
surprised her energetic mother, who could not conceive that so much could be done with so little
noise. In fact, in all household lore she was a veritable good fairy; her knowledge seemed
unerring and intuitive; and whether she washed or ironed, or moulded biscuit or conserved plums,
her gentle beauty seemed to turn to poetry all the prose of life.

There was something in Mary, however, which divided her as by an appreciable line from ordinary
girls of her age. From her father she had inherited a deep and thoughtful nature, predisposed
to moral and religious exaltation. Had she been born in Italy, under the dissolving influences
of that sunny, dreamy clime, beneath the shadow of cathedrals, and where pictured saints and
angels smiled in clouds of painting from every arch and altar, she might, like fair St. Catherine
of Siena, have seen beatific visions in the sunset skies, and a silver dove descending upon
her as she prayed; but, unfolding in the clear, keen, cold New England clime, and nurtured
in its abstract and positive theologies, her religious faculties took other forms. Instead
of lying entranced in mysterious raptures at the foot of altars, she read and ponder treatises
on the Will, and listened in rapt attention while her spiritual guide, the venerated Dr. H.,
unfolded to her the theories of the great Edwards on the nature of true virtue. Womanlike,
she felt the subtile poetry of these sublime abstractions which dealt with such infinite and
unknown quantities,--which spoke of the universe, of its great Architect, of man, of angels,
as matters of intimate and daily contemplation; and her teacher, a grand-minded and simple-hearted
man as ever lived, was often amazed at the tread with which this fair young child walked through
these high regions of abstract thought,--often comprehending through an ethereal clearness
of nature what he had laboriously and heavily reasoned out; and sometimes, when she turned
her grave, childlike face upon him with some question or reply, the good man started as if
an angel had looked suddenly out upon him from a cloud. Unconsciously to himself, he often
seemed to follow her, as Dante followed the flight of Beatrice, through the ascending circles
of the celestial spheres.

When her mother questioned him, anxiously, of her daughter's spiritual estate, he answered,
that she was a child of a strange graciousness of nature, and of a singular genius; to which
Katy responded, with a woman's pride, that she was all her father over again. It is only now
and then that a matter-of-fact woman is sublimated by a real love; but if she is, it is affecting
to see how impossible it is for death to quench it; for in the child the mother feels that
she has a mysterious and undying repossession of the father.

But, in truth, Mary was only a recast in feminine form of her father's nature. The elixir of
the spirit that sparkled within, her was of that quality of which the souls of poets and artists
are made; but the keen New England air crystalizes emotions into ideas, and restricts many
a poetic soul to the necessity of expressing itself only in practical living.

The rigid theological discipline of New England is fitted to produce rather strength and purity
than enjoyment. It was not fitted to make a sensitive and thoughtful nature happy, however
it might ennoble and exalt.

The system of Dr. H. was one that could have had its origin in a soul at once reverential and
logical,--a soul, moreover, trained from its earliest years in the habits of thought engendered
by monarchical institutions. For although he, like other ministers, took an active part as
a patriot in the Revolution, still he was brought up under the shadow of a throne, and a man
cannot ravel out the stitches in which early days have knit him. His theology was, in fact,
the turning to an invisible Sovereign of that spirit of loyalty and unquestioning subjugation
which is one of the noblest capabilities of our nature.

It is not in our line to imply the truth or the falsehood of those systems of philosophic theology
which seem for many years to have been the principal outlet for the proclivities of the New
England mind, but as psychological developments they have an intense interest. He who does
not see a grand side to these strivings of the soul cannot understand one of the noblest capabilities
of humanity.

No real artist or philosopher ever lived who has not at some hours risen to the height of utter
self-abnegation for the glory of the invisible. There have been painters who would have been
crucified to demonstrate the action of a muscle,--chemists who would gladly have melted themselves
and all humanity in their crucible, if so a new discovery might arise out of its fumes. Even
persons of mere artistic sensibility are at times raised by music, painting, or poetry to a
momentary trance of self-oblivion, in which they would offer their whole being before the shrine
of an invisible loveliness. These hard old New England divines were the poets of metaphysical
philosophy, who built systems in an artistic fervor, and felt self exhale from beneath them
as they rose into the higher regions of thought. But where theorists and philosophers tread
with sublime assurance, woman often follows with bleeding footsteps;--women are always turning
from the abstract to the individual, and feeling where the philosopher only thinks.

It was easy enough for Mary to believe in self-renunciation, for she was one with a born vocation
for martyrdom; and so, when the idea was put to her of suffering eternal pains for the glory
of God and the good of being in general, she responded to it with a sort of sublime thrill,
such as it is given to some natures to feel in view of uttermost sacrifice. But when she looked
around on the warm, living faces of friends, acquaintances, and neighbors, viewing them as
possible candidates for dooms so fearfully different, she sometimes felt the walls of her faith
closing round her as an iron shroud,--she wondered that the sun could shine so brightly, that
flowers could flaunt such dazzling colors, that sweet airs could breathe, and little children
play, and youth love and hope, and a thousand intoxicating influences combine to cheat the
victims from the thought that their next step might be into an abyss of horrors without end.
The blood of youth and hope was saddened by this great sorrow, which lay ever on her heart,--and
her life, unknown to herself, was a sweet tune in the minor key; it was only in prayer, or
deeds of love and charity, or in rapt contemplation of that beautiful millennial day which
her spiritual guide most delighted to speak of, that the tone of her feelings ever rose to
the height of joy.

Among Mary's young associates was one who had been as a brother to her childhood. He was her
mother's cousin's son,--and so, by a sort of family immunity, had always a free access to her
mother's house. He took to the sea, as the most bold and resolute young men will, and brought
home from foreign parts those new modes of speech, those other eyes for received opinions and
established things, which so often shock established prejudices,--so that he was held as little
better than an infidel and a castaway by the stricter religious circles in his native place.
Mary's mother, now that Mary was grown up to woman's estate, looked with a severe eye on her
cousin. She warned her daughter against too free an association with him,--and so----We all
know what comes to pass when girls are constantly warned not to think of a man. The most conscientious
and obedient little person in the world, Mary resolved to be very careful. She never would
think of James, except, of course, in her prayers; but as these were constant, it may easily
be seen it was not easy to forget him.

All that was so often told her of his carelessness, his trifling, his contempt of orthodox
opinions, and his startling and bold expressions, only wrote his name deeper in her heart,--for
was not his soul in peril? Could she look in his frank, joyous fate and listen to his thoughtless
laugh, and then think that a fall from mast-head, or one night's storm, might----Ah, with what
images her faith filled the blank! Could she believe all this and forget him?

You see, instead of getting our tea ready, as we promised at the beginning of this chapter,
we have filled it with descriptions and meditations, and now we foresee that the next chapter
will be equally far from the point. But have patience with us; for we can write only as we
are driven, and never know exactly where we are going to land.

CHAPTER III.

A quiet, maiden-like place was Mary's little room. The window looked out under the overarching
boughs of a thick apple-orchard, now all in a blush with blossoms and pink-tipped buds, and
the light came golden-green, strained through flickering leaves,--and an ever-gentle rustle
and whirr of branches and blossoms, a chitter of birds, and an indefinite whispering motion,
as the long heads of orchard-grass nodded and bowed to each other under the trees, seemed to
give the room the quiet hush of some little side-chapel in a cathedral, where green and golden
glass softens the sunlight, and only the sigh and rustle of kneeling worshippers break the
stillness of the aisles. It was small enough for a nun's apartment, and dainty in its neatness
as the waxen cell of a bee. The bed and low window were draped in spotless white, with fringes
of Mary's own knotting. A small table under the looking-glass bore the library of a well-taught
young woman of those times. "The Spectator," "Paradise Lost," Shakspeare, and "Robinson Crusoe"
stood for the admitted secular literature, and beside them the Bible and the works then published
of Mr. Jonathan Edwards. Laid a little to one side, as if of doubtful reputation, was the only
novel which the stricter people in those days allowed for the reading of their daughters: that
seven-volumed, trailing, tedious, delightful old bore, "Sir Charles Grandison,"--a book whose
influence in those times was so universal, that it may be traced in the epistolary style even
of the gravest divines. Our little heroine was mortal, with all her divinity, and had an imagination
which sometimes wandered to the things of earth; and this glorious hero in lace and embroidery,
who blended rank, gallantry, spirit, knowledge of the world, disinterestedness, constancy,
and piety, sometimes walked before her, while she sat spinning at her wheel, till she sighed,
she hardly knew why, that no such men walked the earth now. Yet it is to be confessed, this
occasional raid of the romantic into Mary's balanced and well-ordered mind was soon energetically
put to rout, and the book, as we have said, remained on her table under protest,--protected
by being her father's gift to her mother during their days of courtship. The small looking-glass
was curiously wreathed with corals and foreign shells, so disposed as to indicate an artistic
eye and skilful hand; and some curious Chinese paintings of birds and flowers gave rather a
piquant and foreign air to the otherwise homely neatness of the apartment.

Here in this little retreat Mary spent those few hours which her exacting conscience would
allow her to spare from her busy-fingered household-life; here she read and wrote and thought
and prayed;--and here she stands now, arraying herself for the tea company that afternoon.
Dress, which in our day is becoming in some cases the whole of woman, was in those times a
remarkably simple affair. True, every person of a certain degree of respectability had state
and festival robes; and a certain camphor-wood brass-bound trunk, which was always kept solemnly
locked in Mrs. Katy Scudder's apartment, if it could have spoken, might have given off quite
a catalogue of brocade satin and laces. The wedding-suit there slumbered in all the unsullied
whiteness of its stiff ground broidered with heavy knots of flowers; and there were scarfs
of wrought India muslin and embroidered crape, each of which had its history,--for each had
been brought into the door with beating heart on some return voyage of one who, alas, should
return no more! The old trunk stood with its histories, its imprisoned remembrances,--and a
thousand tender thoughts seemed to be shaping out of every rustling fold of silk and embroidery,
on the few yearly occasions when all were brought out to be aired, their history related, and
then solemnly locked up again. Nevertheless, the possession of these things gave to the women
of an establishment a certain innate dignity, like a good conscience; so that in that larger
portion of existence commonly denominated among them "every day," they were content with plain
stuff and homespun. Mary's toilette, therefore, was sooner made than those of Newport belles
of the present day; it simply consisted in changing her ordinary "short gown and petticoat"
for another of somewhat nicer materials,--a skirt of India chintz and a striped jacconet short-gown.
Her hair was of the kind which always lies like satin; but, nevertheless, girls never think
their toilette complete unless the smoothest hair has been shaken down and rearranged.

There was a swish and rustle in the orchard-grass, and a tramp of elastic steps; then the branches
were brushed aside, and a young man suddenly emerged from the trees a little behind Mary. He
was apparently about twenty-five, dressed in the holiday rig of a sailor on shore, which well
set off his fine athletic figure, and accorded with a sort of easy, dashing, and confident
air which sat not unhandsomely on him. For the rest, a high forehead shaded by rings of the
blackest hair, a keen, dark eye, a firm and determined mouth, gave the impression of one who
had engaged to do battle with life, not only with a will, but with shrewdness and ability.

He introduced the colloquy by stepping deliberately behind Mary, putting his arms round her
neck, and kissing her.

"Why, James!" said Mary, starting up, and blushing. "Come, now!"

"I have come, haven't I?" said the young man, leaning his elbow on the window-seat and looking
at her with an air of comic determined frankness, which yet had in it such wholesome honesty
that it was scarcely possible to be angry. "The fact is, Mary," he added, with a sudden earnest
darkening of the face, "I won't stand this nonsense any longer. Aunt Katy has been holding
me at arm's length ever since I got home; and what have I done? Haven't I been to every prayer-meeting
and lecture and sermon, since I got into port, just as regular as a psalm-book? and not a bit
of a word could I get with you, and no chance even so much as to give you my arm. Aunt Kate
always comes between us and says, 'Here, Mary, you take my arm.' What does she think I go to
meeting for, and almost break my jaws keeping down the gapes? I never even go to sleep, and
yet I'm treated in this way! It's too bad! What's the row? What's anybody been saying about
me? I always have waited on you ever since you were that high. Didn't I always draw you to
school on my sled? didn't we always use to do our sums together? didn't I always wait on you
to singing-school? and I've been made free to run in and out as if I were your brother;--and
now she is as glum and stiff, and always stays in the room every minute of the time that I
am there, as if she was afraid I should be in some mischief. It's too bad!"

"Oh, James, I am sorry that you only go to meeting for the sake of seeing me; you feel no real
interest in religious things; and besides, mother thinks now I'm grown so old, that----Why,
you know things are different now,--at least, we mustn't, you know, always do as we did when
we were children. But I wish you did feel more interested in good things."

"I am interested in one or two good things, Mary,--principally in you, who are the beat I know
of. Besides," he said quickly, and scanning her face attentively to see the effect of his words,
"don't you think there is more merit in my sitting out all these meetings, when they bore me
so confoundedly, than there is in your and Aunt Katy's doing it, who really seem to find something
to like in them? I believe you have a sixth sense, quite unknown to me; for it's all a maze,--I
can't find top, nor bottom, nor side, nor up, nor down to it,--it's you can and you can't,
you shall and you sha'n't, you will and you won't,"----

"James!"

"You needn't look at me so. I'm not going to say the rest of it. But, seriously, it's all anywhere
and nowhere to me; it don't touch me, it don't help me, and I think it rather makes me worse;
and then they tell me it's because I'm a natural man, and the natural man understandeth not
the things of the Spirit. Well, I am a natural man,--how's a fellow to help it?"

"Well, James, why need you talk everywhere as you do? You joke, and jest, and trifle, till
it seems to everybody that you don't believe in anything. I'm afraid mother thinks you are
an infidel, but I know that can't be; yet we hear of all sorts of things that you say."

"I suppose you mean my telling Deacon Twitchel that I had seen as good Christians among the
Mahometans as any in Newport. Didn't I make him open his eyes? It's true, too!"

"In every nation, he that feareth God and worketh righteousness is accepted of Him," said Mary;
"and if there are better Christians than us among the Mahometans, I am sure I'm glad of it.
But, after all, the great question is, 'Are we Christians ourselves?' Oh, James, if you only
were a real, true, noble Christian!"

"Well, Mary, you have got into that harbor, through all the sandbars and rocks and crooked
channels; and now do you think it right to leave a fellow beating about outside, and not go
out to help him in? This way of drawing up, among you good people, and leaving us sinners to
ourselves, isn't generous. You might care a little for the soul of an old friend, anyhow!"

"And don't I care, James? How many days and nights have been one prayer for you!

There was a solemnity and pathos in Mary's manner which checked the conversation. James was
the more touched because he felt it all so real, from one whose words were always yea and nay,
so true, so inflexibly simple. Her eyes filled with tears, her face kindled with a sad earnestness,
and James thought, as he looked, of a picture he had once seen in a European cathedral, where
the youthful Mother of Sorrows is represented,

    "Radiant and grave, as pitying man's decline;
    All youth, but with an aspect beyond time;
    Mournful, but mournful of another's crime;
    She looked as if she sat by Ellen's door,
    And grieved for those who should return no more."

James had thought he loved Mary; he had admired her remarkable beauty, he had been proud of
a certain right in her before that of other young men, her associates; he had thought of her
as the keeper of his home; he had wished to appropriate her wholly to himself;--but in all
this there had been, after all, only the thought of what she was to be to him; and this, for
this poor measure of what he called love, she was ready to offer, an infinite sacrifice.

As a subtile flash of lightning will show in a moment a whole landscape, tower, town, winding
stream, and distant sea, so that one subtile ray of feeling seemed in a moment to reveal to
James the whole of his past life; and it seemed to him so poor, so meagre, so shallow, by the
side of that childlike woman, to whom the noblest of feelings were unconscious matters of course,
that a sort of awe awoke in him; like the Apostles of old, he "feared as he entered into the
cloud"; it seemed as if the deepest string of some eternal sorrow had vibrated between them.

After a moment's pause, he spoke in a low and altered voice:--

"Mary, I am a sinner. No psalm or sermon ever taught it to me, but I see it now. Your mother
is quite right, Mary; you are too good for me; I am no mate for you. Oh, what would you think
of me, if you knew me wholly? I have lived a mean, miserable, shallow, unworthy life. You are
worthy, you are a saint, and walk in white! Oh, what upon earth could ever make you care so
much for me?"

"Well, then, James, you will be good? Won't you talk with Dr. H.?"

"Hang Dr. H.!" said James. "Now, Mary, I beg your pardon, but I can't make head or tail of
a word Dr. H. says. I don't get hold of it, or know what he would be at. You girls and women
don't know your power. Why, Mary, you are a living gospel. You have always had a strange power
over us boys. You never talked religion much, but I have seen high fellows come away from being
with you as still and quite as one feels when one goes into a church. I can't understand all
the hang of predestination, and moral ability, and natural ability, and God's efficiency, and
man's agency, which Dr. H. is so engaged about; but I can understand you, you can do me good!"

"Oh, James, can I?"

"Mary, I'm going to confess my sins. I saw, that, somehow or other, the wind was against me
in Aunt Katy's quarter, and you know we fellows who take up the world in both fists don't like
to be beat. If there's opposition, it sets us on. Now I confess I never did care much about
religion, but I thought, without being really a hypocrite, I'd just let you try to save my
soul for the sake of getting you; for there's nothing surer to hook a woman than trying to
save a fellow's soul. It's a dead-shot, generally, that. Now our ship sails to-night, and I
thought I'd just come across this path in the orchard to speak to you. You know I used always
to bring you peaches and juneatings across this way, and once I brought you a ribbon."

"Yes, I've got it yet, James."

"Well, now, Mary, all this seems mean to me, mean, to try and trick and snare you, who are
so much too good for me. I felt very proud this morning that I was to go out first mate this
time, and that I should command a ship next voyage. I meant to have asked you for a promise,
but I don't. Only, Mary, just give me your little Bible, and I'll promise to read it all through
soberly, and see what it all comes to. And pray for me; and if, while I'm gone, a good man
comes who loves you, and is worthy of you, why, take him, Mary,--that's my advice."

"James, I am not thinking of any such things; I don't ever mean to be married. And I'm glad
you don't ask me for any promise,--because it would be wrong to give it; mother don't even
like me to be much with you. But I'm sure all I have said to you to-day is right; I shall tell
her exactly all I have said."

"If Aunt Katy knew what things we fellows are pitched into, who take the world headforemost,
she wouldn't be so selfish. Mary, you girls and women don't know the world you live in; you
ought to be pure and good: you are not as we are. You don't know what men, what women--no,
they're not women!--what creatures, beset us in every foreign port, and boarding-houses that
are gates of hell; and then, if a fellow comes back from all this and don't walk exactly straight,
you just draw up the hems of your garments and stand close to the wall, for fear he should
touch you when he passes. I don't mean you, Mary, for you are different from most; but if you
would do what you could, you might save us. But it's no use talking, Mary. Give me the Bible;
and please be kind to my dove,--for I had a hard time getting him across the water, and I don't
want him to die."

If Mary had spoken all that welled up in her little heart at that moment, she might have said
too much; but duty had its habitual seal upon her lips. She took the little Bible from her
table and gave it with a trembling hand, and James turned to go. In a moment he turned back,
and stood irresolute.

"Mary," he said, "we are cousins; I may never come back; you might kiss me this once."

The kiss was given and received in silence, and James disappeared among the thick trees.

"Come, child," said Aunt Katy, looking in, "there is Deacon Twitchel's chaise in sight,--are
you ready?"

"Yes, mother."

[To be continued.]

THE AUTOCRAT GIVES A BREAKFAST TO THE PUBLIC.

Before my friend the Professor takes his place at our old table, where, Providence permitting,
he means to wish you all a happy New Year on or about the First of January next, I wish you
to do me the favor of being my guests at the table which you see spread before you.

This table is a very long one. Legs in every Atlantic and inland city,--legs in California
and Oregon,--legs on the shores of 'Quoddy and of Lake Pontchartrain,--legs everywhere, like
a millipede or a banian-tree.

The schoolmistress that was,--and is,--(there are her little scholars at the side-table.)--shall
pour out coffee or tea for you as you like.

Sit down and make yourselves comfortable.--A teaspoon, my dear, for Minnesota.--Sacramento's
cup is out.

Bridget has become a thought, and serves us a great deal faster than the sticky lightning of
the submarine par vagum, as the Professor calls it.--Pepper for Kansas, Bridget.--A sandwich
for Cincinnati.--Rolls and sardines for Washington.--A bit of the Cape Ann turkey for Boston.--South
Carolina prefers dark meat.--Fifty thousand glasses of eau sucrée at once, and the rest simultaneously.--Now
give us the nude mahogany, that we may talk over it.--Bridget becomes as a mighty wind and
peels off the immeasurable table-cloth as a northwester strips off the leafy damask from the
autumn woods.

[At this point of the entertainment the Reporter of the "Oceanic Miscellany" was introduced,
and to his fluent and indefatigable pen we owe the further account of the proceedings.--Editors
of the "Oceanic Miscellany."]

--The liberal and untiring editors of the "Oceanic Miscellany" commissioned their special reporter
to be present at the Great Breakfast given by the personage known as the Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table,
furnishing him with one of the caput-mortuum tickets usually distributed on such occasions.

The tables groaned with the delicacies of the season, provided by the distinguished caterers
whose names are familiar in our mouths as household words. After the usual contest for places,--a
proceeding more honored in the breach than the observance,--the band discoursed sweet music.
The creature comforts were then discussed, consisting of the various luxuries that flesh is
heir to, together with fish and fowl, too numerous to mention. After the material banquet had
cloyed the hungry edge of appetite, began the feast of reason and the flow of soul. As, take
him for all in all, the bright particular star of the evening was the distinguished individual
who played the part of mine host, we shall make no apology for confining our report to the

SPEECH OF THE AUTOCRAT.

I think on the whole we have had a good time together, since we became acquainted. So many
pleasant looks and words as have passed between us must mean something. For one person who
speaks well or ill of us we may safely take it for granted that there are ten or a hundred,
or an indefinite number, who feel in the same way, but are shy of talking.

Now the first effect of being kindly received is unquestionably a pleasing internal commotion,
out of which arises a not less pleasing secondary sensation, which the unthinking vulgar call
conceit, but which is in reality an increased consciousness of life, and a most important part
of the mechanism by which a man is advertised of his ability to serve his fellows, and stirred
up to use it.

In the present instance, the immediate effects of the warm general welcome received were the
following demonstrations:--

1. The purchase of a glossy bell-crowned hat, which is worn a little inclined to one side,
at the angle of self-reliance,--this being a very slight dip, as compared to the outrageous
slant of country dandies and the insolent obliquity indulged in by a few unpleasantly conspicuous
city-youth, who prove that "it takes three generations to make a gentleman."

2. A movement towards the acquisition of a pair of pantaloons with a stripe running down the
leg; also of a slender canary-colored cane, to be carried as formerly in the time when Mr.
Van Buren was President.--[A mild veto from the schoolmistress was interposed.]

3. A manifest increase of that monstraridigitativeness,--if you will permit the term,--which
is so remarkable in literary men, that, if public opinion allowed it, some of them would like
to wear a smart uniform, with an author's button, so that they might be known and hailed everywhere.

4. An undeniable aggravation of the natural tendency to caress and cosset such products of
the writer's literary industry as have met with special favor. This is shown by a willingness
to repeat any given stanza, a line of which is referred to, and a readiness to listen to even
exaggerated eulogy with a twinkling stillness of feature and inclination of the titillated
ear to the operator, such as the Mexican Peccary is said to show when its dorsal surface is
gently and continuously irritated with the pointed extremity of a reed or of a magnolia-branch.
What other people think well of, we certainly have a right to like, ourselves.

All this self-exaltation, which some folks make so much scandal of, is the most natural thing
in the world when one gets an over-dose of fair words. The more I reflect upon it, the more
I am convinced that it is well for a man to think too highly of himself while he is in the
working state. Sydney Smith could discover no relation between Modesty and Merit, excepting
that they both began with an M. Considered simply as a machine out of which work is to be got,
the wheels of intellect run best when they are kept well oiled by the public and the publisher.

Therefore, my friends, if any of you have uttered words of kindness, of flattery, of extreme
over-praise, even, let me thank you for it. Criticism with praise in it is azotized food; it
makes muscle; to expect a man to write without it is like giving nothing but hay to a roadster
and expecting to get ten miles an hour out of him. A young fellow cannot be asked to go on
making love forever, if he does not get a smile now and then to keep hope alive. The truth
is, Bridget would have whisked off the table-cloth and given notice of quitting, and the whole
establishment would have gone to pieces at the end of No. 1, if you had not looked so very
good-natured about it that it was impossible to give up such amiable acquaintance.

The above acknowledgments and personal revelations are preliminary to the following more general
statement, which will show how they must be qualified.

Every man of sense has two ways of looking at himself. The first is an everyday working view,
in which he makes the most of his gifts and accomplishments. It is the superficial stratum
in which praise and blame find their sphere of action,--the region of comparisons,--the habitat
where envy and jealousy are to be looked for, if they have not been weeded out and flung into
the compost-heap of dead vices, with which, if we understand moral husbandry, we fertilize
our living virtues. It is quite foolish to abuse this thin upper layer of our mental soil.
The grasses do not strike their roots deep in towards the centre, like the oaks, but they are
the more useful and necessary vegetable of the two. The cheap, but perpetual activities of
life grow out of this upper stratum of our being. How silly to try to be wiser than Providence!
Don't tell me about the vain illusions of self-love. There is nothing so real in this world
as Illusion. All other things may desert a man, but this fair angel never leaves him. She holds
a star a billion miles over a baby's head, and laughs to see him clawing and batting himself
as he tries to reach it. She glides before the hoary sinner down the path which leads to the
inexorable gate, jingling the keys of heaven at her girdle.

Underneath this surface-soil lies another stratum of thought, where the tap-roots of the larger
mental growths penetrate and find their nourishment. Out of this comes heroism in all its shapes;
here the enterprises that overshadow half the planet, when full grown, lie, tender, in their
cotyledons. Here there is neither praise nor blame, nothing but a passionless self-estimate,
quite as willing to undervalue as to rate too highly. The less clay and straw the task-master
has given his servant, the smaller the tale of bricks he will be required to furnish. Many
a man not remarkable for conceit has shuddered as some effort or accident has revealed to him
a depth of power of which he never thought himself the possessor and broken his peace with
the fatal words, "Sleep no more!"

This deeper self-appreciation is a slow and gradual process. At first, a child thinks he can
do everything. I remember when I thought I could lift a house, if I would only try hard enough.
So I began with the hind wheel of a heavy old family-coach, built like that in which my Lady
Bountiful carried little King Pippin, if you happen to remember the illustrations of that story.
I lifted with all my might, and the planet pulled down with all its might. The planet beat.
After that, my ideas of the difference between my will and my muscular force were more accurately
defined. Then came the illusion, that I could, of course, "lick," "serve out," or "polish off,"
various small boys who had been or might be obnoxious to me. The event of the different "set-tos"
to which, this hypothesis led not uniformly confirming it, another limitation of my possibilities
was the consequence. In this way I groped along into a knowledge of my physical relations to
the organic and inorganic universe.

A man must be very stupid indeed, if, by the time he is fully ripened, he does not know tolerably
well what his physical powers are. His weight, his height, his general development, his constitutional
force, his good or ill looks, he has had time to find out; and he is a fool, if he does not
carry a reasonable consciousness of these conditions with him always. It is a little harder
with the mind; but some qualities are generally estimated fairly enough by their owners. Thus,
a man may be trusted when he says he has a good or a bad memory. Not so of his opinion of his
own judgment or imagination. It is only by a very slow process that he finds out how much or
how little of those qualities he possesses. But it is one of the blessed privileges of growing
older, that we come to have a much clearer sense of what we can do and what we cannot, and
settle down to our work quietly, knowing what our tools are and what we have to do with them.

Therefore, my friends, if I should at any time put on any airs on the strength of your good-natured
treatment, please to remember that these are only the growth of that thin upper stratum of
character I was telling you of. I conceive that the fact of a man's coming out in a book or
two, even supposing them to have a success such as I should never think of, is to the sum total
of that man's life and character as the bed of tulips and hyacinths you may see in spring,
at the feet of the "Great Elm," on our Boston Common, is to the solemn old tree itself. The
serene, strong life, reaching deep underground and high overhead, robed itself in April and
disrobed itself in October when the Common was a cow-pasture, and observes the same seasons
now that the old tree is belted with an iron girdle and finds its feet covered with flowers.
Alas! my friends, the fence and the tulips are painfully suggestive. Authorship is an iron
girdle, and the blossoms of flattery that are scattered at its feet are useful to it only as
their culture keeps the soil open to the sun and rain. No man can please the reading public
ever so little without being too highly commended for it in the heat of the moment; and so,
if he thinks of starting again for the prize of public approbation, he finds himself heavily
handicapped, and perhaps weighted down, simply because he has made good running for some former
stakes.

I don't like the position of my friend the Professor. I consider him fully as good a man as
myself.--I have, you know, often referred to him and quoted him, and sometimes got so mixed
up with him, that, like the Schildbürgers at their town-meeting, I was puzzled to disentangle
my own legs from his, when I wanted to stand up by myself, they were got into such a snarl
together.--But I don't like the position of my friend the Professor.

The first thing, of course, when he opens his mouth, will be to compare him with his predecessor.
Now, if he has the least tact in the world, he will begin dull, so as to leave a wide margin
for improvement. You may be perfectly certain that he can talk and write just as well as I
can; but you don't think, surely, that he is going to begin where I left off. Not unless we
are to have a wedding in the first number;--and you are not sure whether or not there is to
be any wedding at all while the Professor holds my seat at the table.

But I will tell you one thing,--if you sit a year or so at a long table, you will see what
life is. Christenings, weddings, funerals,--these are the three legs it stands on; and you
have a chance to see them all in a twelvemonth, if the table is really a long one. I don't
doubt the Professor will have something to tell besides his opinions and fancies; and if you
like a book of thoughts with occasional incidents, as well as a book of incidents with occasional
thoughts, why, I see no reason why you should not accept this talk of the Professor's as kindly
as if it had a fancy name and called itself a novel.

Life may be divided into two periods,--the hours of taking food, and the intervals between
them,--or, technically, into the alimentary and the non-alimentary portions of existence. Now
our social being is so intensified during the first of these periods, that whoso should write
the history of a man's breakfasts or dinners or suppers would give a perfect picture of his
most important social qualities, conditions, and actions, and might omit the non-alimentary
portion of his life altogether from consideration. Thus I trust that the breakfasts of which
you have had some records have given you a pretty clear idea, not only of myself, but of those
more interesting friends and fellow-boarders of mine to whom I have introduced you, and with
some of whom, in company with certain new acquaintances, my friend the Professor will keep
you in relation during the following year. So you see that over the new table-cloth which is
going to be spread there may very possibly be a new drama of life enacted; but all that, if
it should be so, is incidental and by the way;--for what the Professor wishes particularly
to do, and means to do, is to talk about life and men and things and books and thoughts; but
if there should be anything better than talk occurring before his eyes, either at the small
world of the breakfast-table or in the greater world without, he holds himself at liberty to
relate it or discourse upon it.

I suppose the Professor will receive a good many letters, as I did, containing suggestions,
counsel, and articles in prose and verse for publication. He desires me to state that he is
very happy to hear from known and unknown friends, provided they will not mistake him for an
editor, and will not be offended if their communications are not made the subject of individual
notice. There may be times when, having nothing to say, he will be very glad to print somebody's
note or copy of verses; I don't think it very likely; for life, is short, and the world is
brimful, and rammed down hard, with strange things worth seeing and telling, and Mr. Worcester's
great Quarto Dictionary is soon coming out, crammed with all manner of words to talk with,--so
that the Professor will probably find little room, except for an answer to a question now and
then, or the acknowledgment of some hint he may have thought worth taking.

       *       *       *       *       *

--The speaker shut himself off like a gas-burner at this point, and the company soon dispersed.
I sauntered down to the landlady's, and obtained from her the following production from the
papers left by the gentleman, whose pen, ranging from grave to gay, from lively to severe,
has held the mirror up to Nature, and given the form and pressure of his thoughts and feelings
for the benefit of the numerous and constantly-increasing multitudes of readers of the "Oceanic
Miscellany," a journal which has done and is doing so much for the gratification and improvement
of the masses.

A Poem from the Autocrat's Lose Papers.

[I find the following note written in pencil on the MSS.--Reporter Oc. Misc.]

This is a true story. Avis, Avise, or Avice, (they pronounce it Arris,) is a real breathing
person. Her home is not more than an hour and a half's space from the palaces of the great
ladies who might like to look at her. They may see her and the little black girl she gave herself
to, body and soul, when nobody else could bear the sight of her infirmity,--leaving home at
noon, or even after breakfast, and coming back in season to undress for the evening's party.

LITERARY NOTICES.

Sir Walter Raleigh and his Time, with other Papers. By CHARLES KINGSLEY, Author of "Hypatia,"
"Two Years Ago," etc. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 12mo.

This collection of Mr. Kingsley's miscellaneous writings is marked by the same qualities of
mind and temper which have given celebrity and influence to his novels. An earnest man, with
strong convictions springing from a fervid philanthropy, fertile in thought, confident in statement,
resolute in spirit, with many valuable ideas and not a few curious crotchets, and master of
a style singularly bold, vivid, passionate, and fluent, he always stimulates the mind, if he
does not always satisfy it. The defects of his intellect, especially in the treatment of historical
questions, proceed from the warmth of his temperament. His impulses irritate his reason. Intellectually
impatient with all facts and arguments which obstruct the full sweep of his theory, he has
an offensive habit of escaping from objections he will not pause to answer, by the calling
of names and the introduction of Providence. He is most petulantly disdainful of others when
he has nothing but paradoxes with which to oppose their truisms. He has a trick of adopting
the manner and expressions of Carlyle, in speaking of incidents and characters to which they
are ludicrously inapplicable, and becomes flurried and flippant on occasions where Carlyle
would put into the same words his whole scowling and scornful strength. He frequently mistakes
sympathy with suffering for insight into its causes, and an eloquent statement of what he thinks
desirable for an interpretation of what really is. He has bright glimpses of truth, but they
are due rather to the freedom of his thinking than to its depth; and in the hurry and impatient
pressure of his impulses, he does not discriminate between his ideas and his whims. He seems
to be in a state of insurrection against the limitations of his creed, his profession, and
his own mind, and the impression conveyed by his best passages is of splendid incompleteness.
It would be ungracious to notice these defects in a writer who possesses so many excellences,
were it not that he forces them upon the attention, and in their expression is unjust to other
thinkers. His intellectual conceit finds its vent in intellectual sauciness, and is all the
worse from appearing to have its source in conceit of conscience and benevolence.

In spite of these faults, however, Mr. Kingsley's reputation is not greater than he deserves.
He is one of the most sincere; truthful, and courageous of writers, has no reserves or concealments,
and pours out his feelings and opinions exactly as they lie in his own heart and brain. We
at least feel assured that he has no imperfections which he does not express, and that there
is no disagreement between the book and the man. He is commonly on the right side in the social
and political movements of the day, if he does not always give the right reasons for his position.
His love, both of Nature and human nature, is intense and deep, and this gives a cordiality,
freshness, and frankness to his writings which more than compensate for their defects.

The present volume of his miscellanies contains not only his essays and reviews, but his four
lectures on "Alexandria and her Schools," and his "Loose Thoughts for Loose Thinkers." Of the
essays, those on "North Devon" and "My Winter Garden" are the best specimens of his descriptive
power, and those on "Raleigh" and "England from Wolsey to Elizabeth," of his talents and accomplishments
as a thinker on historical subjects. The literary papers on "Tennyson," "Burns," "The Poetry
of Sacred and Literary Art," and "Hours with the Mystics," are full of striking and suggestive,
if somewhat perverse, thought. The volume, as a whole, is read with mingled feelings of vexation
and pleasure; but whether provoked or delighted, we are always interested both in the author
and his themes.

A Journey due North: Being Notes of a Residence in Russia. By GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA. Boston:
Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

Although the matter of this brilliant volume is of intrinsic interest, its charm is due more
to the mode of description than even to the things described. It gives us Russia from a Bohemian
point of view. The characteristics of Mr. Sala are keen observation, vivid description, lively
wit, indomitable assurance, and incapacity of being surprised. To his resolute belief in himself,
in what he sees with his own eyes and conceives with his own brain, the book owes much of its
raciness, its confident, decisive, "knowing" tone, its independence of the judgments of others,
and its freedom from all the deceptions which proceed from such emotions as wonder and admiration.
The volume is read with a pleasure similar to that we experience in listening to the animated
talk of an acquaintance fresh from novel scenes of foreign travel, who reproduces his whole
experience in recalling his adventures, and gives us not merely incidents and pictures, but
his own feelings of delight and self-elation.

The three introductory chapters, describing the journey to St. Petersburg, are perhaps the
most brilliant portions of the book. The delineations of his fellow-passengers, in the voyage
from Stettin to Cronstadt, especially the portraits of the swearing Captain Smith and the accomplished
Hussian noble, are admirable equally for their humor and their sagacity. The account of the
landing at Cronstadt, the scenes at the Custom-House, the author's first walk in St. Petersburg,
and his first drive in a droschky, are masterpieces of familiar narration, and fairly convert
the readers of his hook into companions of his journey. The description of the manners and
customs of the Russian people, the shrewd occasional comments on the policy of the government,
and the thorough analysis of the rascality of the Russian police, are admirable in substance,
if somewhat flippant in expression. In power of holding the amused attention of the reader,
equally by the pertinence of the matter and the impertinence of the tone, the volume is unexcelled
by any other book on the subject of Russia.

The New Priest in Conception Bay. Boston: Phillips, Sampson & Co. 1858. 2 vols. 12mo.

The southeastern portion of the island of Newfoundland, as may be seen by a glance at the map,
may be well described by that expressive epithet of "nook-shotten," which in Shakspeare is
applied to the mother-island of which it is a dependent. The land is indented by bays and estuaries,
so that it bears the same relation to the water that the parted fingers of an outstretched
hand do to the spaces of air that are between them. One of these inlets bears the name of Conception
Bay; and it is around the shores of this bay that the scene of this novel is laid. Everything
in it suffers a sea-change; everything is set to the music of the winds and the waves. We find
ourselves among a people with whom the sea is all, and the land only an appendage to the sea,--a
place to dry fish, and mend nets, and haul up boats, and caulk ships. But though the view everywhere,
morally and physically, is bounded by the sea, and though one of the finest of the characters
is a fisherman, yet the moving springs of the story are found in elements only accidentally
connected with the sea, and by no means new to novel-writers or playwrights. The plot of the
novel is taken from, or founded upon, the peculiar relations existing between the Roman Catholic
priesthood and the female sex; and, with only a change in costume and scenery, the events might
have taken place in Maryland, Louisiana, or France.

The novel is one of a peculiar class. To borrow a convenient phraseology recently introduced
into the language, its interest is more subjective than objective,--or, in other words, is
derived more from marked and careful delineations of individual character than from the march
of events or brilliant procession of incidents. With a single exception,--the abduction of
the fisherman's daughter,--the occurrences narrated are such as might happen any day in any
small community living near the sea. Novels constructed on this plan are less likely to be
popular than those in which the interest is derived from a skilfully-contrived plot and a rapid
and stirring succession of moving events. To what extent the work before us may be popular
we wilt not undertake even to guess; for we have had too frequent experience of the capriciousness
of public taste to hazard any prediction as to the reception a particular book may meet with,
especially if it rely exclusively upon its own merits, and be not helped by the previous reputation
of the writer. But we certainly can and will say that to readers of a certain cast it will
present strong attractions, and that no candid critic can read it without pronouncing it to
be a remarkable work and the production of an original mind. The author we should judge to
be a man who had lived a good deal in solitude, or at least removed from his intellectual peers,--who
had been through much spiritual struggle in the course of his life,--who had been more accustomed
to think than to write, at least for the press,--and whose own observation had revealed to
him some of the darker aspects of the Roman Catholic faith and practice.

There is very little skill in the construction of the plot. Most of the events stand to each
other in the relation of accidental and not of necessary succession, and might be transposed
without doing any harm. Many pages are written simply as illustrations of character; and a
fair proportion of the novel might be called with strict propriety a series of sketches connected
by a slight thread of narrative. But it would be unreasonable to deal sharply with an author
for this defect; for the faculty of making a well-constructed story, in which every event shall
come in naturally, and yet each bring us one step nearer to the journey's end, is now one of
the lost arts of earth. But this is not all. A considerable portion of it must be pronounced
decidedly slow. We use the word not in its slang application, but in the sense in which Goldsmith
used it in the first line of "The Traveller," or rather, as Johnson told him he used it, when
he said to him,--"You do not mean tardiness of locomotion; you mean that sluggishness of mind
which comes upon a man in solitude." But the slowness of which novel-readers will complain
is not mere commonplace, least of all is it dulness. It is the leisurely movement of a contemplative
mind full of rich thought and stored with varied learning. Such a writer could not have any
sympathy with the mercurial, vivacious, light-of-foot story-tellers of the French school. The
author of "The New Priest in Conception Bay," we surmise, has not been in the habit of packing
up his thoughts for the market, by either writing for the press, or conversing with clever
and nimble-witted men and women, and thus does not always distinguish between cargo and dunnage.
The current of the story often flows with a very languid movement. It happens, rather unluckily,
that this is particularly true of the first seventy pages of the first volume. We fear that
many professional novel-readers may break down in the course of these pages; and we confess
ourselves to have been a little discouraged. But after the ninth chapter, and the touching
account which Skipper George gives of the death of his boys,--a story which the most indifferent
cannot peruse without emotion,--the reader may be safely left in the author's hands. They will
go on together to the end, after this, on good terms. And the prospect brightens, and the horses
are whipped up, as we advance. The second volume is much more interesting, in the common sense
of the word,--more stirring, more rapid, more animated, than the first.

It is but putting our criticism into another form to say that the novel is too long, and, as
a mere story, might with advantage be compressed into at least two-thirds of its present bulk.
There are, especially, two departments or points to which this remark is applicable. In the
first place, the conversations are too numerous, too protracted, and run too much into trivialities
and details. In the second place, the descriptions of scenery are too frequently introduced,
and pushed to a wearisome enumeration of particulars and minute delineation of details. In
this peculiarity the author is kept in countenance by most respectable literary associates.
This sort of Pre-Raphaelite style of scenery-painting in words is a characteristic of most
recent American novel, especially such as are written by women. Every rock, every clump of
trees, every strip of sea-shore, every sloping hillside, sits for its portrait, and is reproduced
with a tender conscientiousness of touch wholly disproportioned to the importance of the subject.
When human hearts and human passions are animating or darkening the scene, we do not want to
be detained by a botanist's description of plants or a geologist's sketch of rocks. The broad,
free sweeps of Scott's brush in "The Pirate" are more effective than the delicate needle-point
lines of the writer before us.

We think, too, that too much use is made of those strange and uncouth dialects which have to
be represented to the eye by bad spelling. We have the familiar Yankee type in Mr. Bangs, and
a new form of phraseology in the speech of the Newfoundland fishermen. A little of this is
well enough, but it should not be pushed to an extreme. The author's style, in general, is
vigorous and expressive; it is the garb of an original mind, and often takes striking forms;
but in grace and simplicity there is room for improvement, and we doubt not that improvement
will come with practice.

There are many passages which we should like to quote as specimens of the imaginative power,
forcible description, and apt illustration which are shown in this work. Whether the author
has ever written verse or not, he is a poet in the best sense of that much-abused word. To
him Nature in all its forms is animated; it sympathizes with all his moods, and takes on the
hues of his thought. There are very few of these paragraphs that are easily separable; they
are fixed in the page, and cannot be understood apart from it. Besides, many of these beauties
are minute,--a gleaming word here and there,--but making the track of the story glow like the
phosphorescent waters of the tropics.

We give a few paragraphs at random:--

     "Does the sea hold the secret?

     "Along the wharves, along the little beaches, around the
     circuit of the little coves, along the smooth or broken face of
     rock, the sea, which cannot rest, is busy. These little waves
     and this long swell, that now are here at work, have been ere
     now at home in the great inland sea of Europe, breathed on by
     soft, warm winds from fruit-groves, vineyards, and wide fields
     of flowers,--have sparkled in the many-colored lights, and felt
     the trivial oars and dallying fingers of the loiterers, on the
     long canals of Venice,--have quenched the ashes of the
     Dutchman's pipe, thrown overboard from his dull, laboring
     treckschuyt,--have wrought their patient tasks in the dim
     caverns of the Indian Archipelago,--have yielded to the little
     builders under water means and implements to rear their
     towering altar, dwelling, monument.

     "These little waves have crossed the ocean, tumbling like
     porpoises at play, and, taking on a savage nature in the Great
     Wilderness, have thundered in close ranks and countless numbers
     against man's floating fortress,--have stormed the breach and
     climbed up over the walls in the ship's riven side,--have
     followed, howling and hungry as mad wolves, the crowded
     raft,--have leaped upon it, snatching off, one by one, the
     weary, worn-out men and women,--have taken up and borne aloft,
     as if on hands and shoulders, the one chance human body that is
     brought in to land, and the long spur, from which man's dancing
     cordage wastes by degrees, find yields its place to long, green
     streamers, much like those that clung to this tall, taper tree
     when it stood in the Northern forest.

     "These waves have rolled their breasts about amid the wrecks
     and weeds of the hot stream that comes up many thousands of
     miles out of the Gulf of Mexico, as the great Mississippi goes
     down into it, and by-and-by these waves will move, all numb and
     chilled, among the mighty icebergs and ice-fields that must be
     brought down from the poles."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "She asked, 'Have you given up being a priest, Mr. Urston?'

     "'Yes!' he answered, in a single word, looking before him, as
     it were along his coming life, like a quoit-caster, to see how
     far the uttered word would strike; then, turning to her, and in
     a lower voice, added, 'I've left that, once and forever.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

     "He stood still with his grief; and, as Mr. Wellon pressed his
     honest, hard hand, he lifted to his pastor one of those
     childlike looks that only come out on the face of the true man,
     that has grown, as oaks grow, ring around ring, adding each
     after-age to the childhood that has never been lost, but has
     been kept innermost. This fisherman seemed like one of those
     that plied their trade, and were the Lord's disciples, at the
     Sea of Galilee, eighteen hundred years ago. The very flesh and
     blood inclosing such a nature keep a long youth through life.
     Witness the genius, (who is only the more thorough man,) poet,
     painter, sculptor, finder-out, or whatever; how fresh and fair
     such an one looks out from under his old age! Let him be
     Christian, too, and he shall look as if--shedding this
     outward--the inward being would walk forth a glorified one."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "As he mentioned his fruitless visits, a startling, most
     repulsive leer just showed itself in Ladford's face; but it
     disappeared as suddenly and wholly as a monster that has come
     up, horrid and hideous, to the surface of the sea, and then has
     sunk again, bodily, into the dark deep, and is gone, as if it
     had never come, except for the fear and loathing that it leaves
     behind. This face, after that look, had nothing repulsive in
     it, but was only the more subdued and sad."

The author's mind so teems with images, that he does not always discriminate between the good
and the bad. Occasionally we find some that are manifestly faulty and overstrained.

     "It is one on which the tenderness of the deep heart of the
     Common Mother breaks itself; over which the broad, dark,
     silent wings of a dread mystery are stretched."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Her voice had in it that tender touch which lays itself,
     warm and loving, on the heart."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "And then her voice began to drop down, as it were, from
     step to step,--and the steps seemed cold and damp, as it went
     down them lingeringly:--'or for
     trial,--disappointment,--whatever comes!'--and at the last, it
     seemed to have gone down into a sepulchral vault."

We do not admire any one of the above,--least of all the last, in which the human voice is
embodied as a sexton going down the steps of a tomb. Why, too, as a matter of verbal criticism,
should the author use such words as "tragedist," "exhibitress," and "cheaty?"

In the delineation of character the author shows uncommon power and is entitled to high praise.
His portraits are animated, life-like, and individual. Father Terence is drawn with a firm
and skilful touch. The task which the author prescribed to himself--to present an ecclesiastic
without learning, without intellectual power, without enthusiasm, and with the easy habits
of a careless and enjoyable temperament, and yet who should be respectable, and even venerable,
by reason of the soundness of his instincts and his thorough right-heartedness--was not an
easy one; but in the execution he has been entirely successful. We cannot but surmise that
he has met sometime and somewhere a living man with some of the characteristic traits of Father
Terence. Father Ignatius, the conventional type of the dark, wily, and dangerous ecclesiastical
intriguer, is an easier subject, but not so well done. He is a little too melodramatic; and
we apply with peculiar force to him a criticism to which all the characters are more or less
obnoxious, that he is too constantly and uniformly manifesting the peculiar traits by which
the author distinguishes him from others. Father Debree and Mrs. Barré are drawn with powerful
and discriminating touch, and we recognize the skill of the writer in the fact that we had
read a considerable portion of the novel before we had any suspicion of the former relations
between them. We may here say that we think that the women who may read this work will want
to know, a little more fully and distinctly than the author has seen fit to tell, what were
the causes and influences which led to the severing of those relations. We cannot state our
meaning more clearly, without doing what we think should never be done in the review of a new
novel, and that is, telling the story, and thus removing half the impulse to read it. Skipper
George and his household, and the smuggler Ladford, are very well drawn,--not distinctly original,
and yet with distinctive individual traits, which sharp observation must, to some extent, have
furnished the author with.

But to our commendation of the characters we must make one exception: we humbly and respectfully
submit that Mr. Bangs is a portentous bore, and we heartily wish that he had been drowned before
he ever set his foot upon the shores of Newfoundland. It is possible, however, that in this
case we are not impartial judges; for we confess, that, for our own private reading, we are
heartily weary of the Yankee,--we mean as a literary creation,--of the eternal repetition of
the character of which Sam Slick is the prototype,--which is for the most part a caricature,
and no more to be found upon the solid earth than a griffin or a centaur. And in our judgment
the theological discussions between this worthy and Father Terence are not in good taste. The
author surely would not have us suppose that the wretched, skimble-skamble stuff which the
latter is made to talk is any fair representative of the arguments by which the Church of Rome
maintains its dogmas and vindicates its claims. A considerable amount of literary skill and
a quick perception of the ludicrous are shown in the ridiculous aspect which the good Father's
statements and reasonings are made to assume in passing through Mr. Bangs's mind; but we doubt
whether such exhibitions are profitable to the cause of good religion, and whether the advantage
thereby secured to Protestantism is not purchased at the price of some danger to Christianity.
It is not well to teach men the art of making mysteries ridiculous.

But we take leave of our author and his book with high respect for his powers,--we do not know
but that we may say his genius,--and with no small admiration for this particular expression
of them. The very minuteness of our criticism involves a compliment. It has been truly said,
that many men never write a book at all, but that very few write only one. We think that the
author of "The New Priest in Conception Bay" must and will write more. A mind so fruitful and
inventive, a spiritual nature so high and earnest, and an observation so keen and correct,
cannot fail to accumulate materials for future use. We predict that his next novel will be
better than this,--that it will have all its substantial and essential merits, and will show
more constructive skill and a more practised hand in literary artisanship. His gold will be
more neatly wrought, and not less pure and abundant.

Summer Time in the Country. By Rev. ROBERT ARIS WILLMOTT. London and New York: George Routledge.
Square 12mo. Illustrated.

We first made the acquaintance of this work in a shilling volume, a "railway-library edition,"
and were charmed with its genial tone, its nice appreciation of rural scenery, its agreeable
and unpedantic learning. It is a diary for the summer months, with notes upon the changing
aspects of Nature, reminiscences from the poets, and appropriate comments. We are glad now
to welcome the book in this form, wherein satin paper, careful typography, delicate engravings,
and handsome binding have been employed to give it an appropriate dress. By NATHAN CROSBY.
Boston: Phillips, Sampson, & Co. 8vo. pp. 430.

The object of this work is best stated in the words of the author, as being "the result of
a long and earnest desire to give a more permanent and accessible memorial to those who have
originated and developed our institutions,--those whose names should be remembered by the generations
to come, as the statesmen, the soldiers, the men of science and skill, the sagacious merchants,
the eminent clergymen and philanthropists,--those who have brought our country to the prosperity
and distinction it now enjoys."

Eulogies, funeral sermons, and obituaries soon pass out of remembrance, and an annual compilation
like this cannot fail to be of service. The work appears to have been done with impartiality
and care.

The Poetical Works of Edgar Allan Poe, with an Original Memoir. Illustrated by F. R. PICKERSGILL,
JOHN TENNIEL, BIRKET FOSTER, FELIX DARLEY, and others. New York: J. S. Redfield. 8vo. pp. 250.

The poems of Poe have taken their place in literature; it is too late to attempt anything like
a contemporaneous criticism, too early to anticipate the judgement of posterity. But whatever
were the faults of this gifted and erratic genius, much that he has written has become a part
of the thought and memory of the present generation of readers, and will doubtless go to our
children with equal claims.

In this volume it would seem that the arts connected with book-making have culminated; paper,
typography, drawing, and engraving are all admirable. There are no fewer than fifty-three wood-engravings,
of various degrees of excellence, but all exquisitely finished. The lovers of fine editions
of poetry will find this a gift-book which the most fastidious taste will approve. If we could
add that this mechanical excellence was from American hands, it would be much more grateful
to our national pride.

Black's Atlas of North America. Boston: Little, Brown, & Co.

Nothing could well be more convenient than this series of twenty maps. They are carefully executed,
of a size not too large for easy handling, and bound in a thin, light volume. They are preceded
by some introductory statistical matter which is very useful for purposes of ready reference,
and accompanied by an index so arranged that one can find the name he seeks on any map with
great facility. We have seen no maps of North America which seemed to us, on the whole, at
once so cheap and good.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the announcements of illustrated works in press, we notice "The Stratford Gallery, comprising
Forty-five Ideal Portraits described by Mrs. J. W. Palmer. Illustrated with Fine Engravings
on Steel, from Designs by Eminent Hands."

In one vol. 8vo. Antique morocco. New York: D. Appleton & Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

The many admirers of the "AUTOCRAT" will learn with pleasure that a fine edition of his charming
volume is in preparation, with tinted paper, illustrated by Hoppin, and bound in elegant style.
Probably no holiday-book will be in such demand this season.