"My young friend," said Geoffrey Hudson, "I cannot deny it.--Nature will claim her rights from
the best and boldest of us.--I thought of Nebuchadnezzar and his fiery furnace; and I waxed
warm with apprehension.--But, I thank Heaven, I also thought of my sworn duty to my royal mistress;
and was thereby obliged and enabled to resist all temptations to make myself prematurely known.
Nevertheless, the Duke--if of malice, may Heaven forgive him--followed down into the office
himself, and urged the master-cook very hard that the pasty should be heated, were it but for
five minutes. But the master-cook, being privy to the very different intentions of my royal
mistress, did most manfully resist the order; and I was again reconveyed in safety to the royal
table."

"And in due time liberated from your confinement, I doubt not?" said Peveril.

"Yes, sir; that happy, and I may say, glorious moment, at length arrived," continued the dwarf.
"The upper crust was removed--I started up to the sound of trumpet and clarion, like the soul
of a warrior when the last summons shall sound--or rather (if that simile be over audacious),
like a spell-bound champion relieved from his enchanted state. It was then that, with my buckler
on my arm, and my trusty Bilboa in my hand, I executed a sort of warlike dance, in which my
skill and agility then rendered me pre-eminent, displaying, at the same time my postures, both
of defence and offence, in a manner so totally inimitable, that I was almost deafened with
the applause of all around me, and half-drowned by the scented waters with which the ladies
of the Court deluged me from their casting bottles. I had amends of his Grace of Buckingham
also; for as I tripped a hasty morris hither and thither upon the dining-table, now offering
my blade, now recovering it, I made a blow at his nose--a sort of estramaçon--the dexterity
of which consists in coming mighty near to the object you seem to aim at, yet not attaining
it. You may have seen a barber make such a flourish with his razor. I promise you his Grace
sprung back a half-yard at least. He was pleased to threaten to brain me with a chicken-bone,
as he disdainfully expressed it; but the King said, 'George, you have but a Rowland for an
Oliver.' And so I tripped on, showing a bold heedlessness of his displeasure, which few dared
to have done at that time, albeit countenanced to the utmost like me by the smiles of the brave
and the fair. But, well-a-day! sir, youth, its fashions, its follies, its frolics, and all
its pomp and pride, are as idle and transitory as the crackling of thorns under a pot."

"The flower that is cast into the oven were a better simile," thought Peveril. "Good God, that
a man should live to regret not being young enough to be still treated as baked meat, and served
up in a pie!"

His companion, whose tongue had for many days been as closely imprisoned as his person, seemed
resolved to indemnify his loquacity, by continuing to indulge it on the present occasion at
his companion's expense. He proceeded, therefore, in a solemn tone, to moralise on the adventure
which he had narrated.

"Young men will no doubt think one to be envied," he said, "who was thus enabled to be the
darling and admiration of the Court"--(Julian internally stood self-exculpated from the suspicion)--"and
yet it is better to possess fewer means of distinction, and remain free from the backbiting,
the slander, and the odium, which are always the share of Court favour. Men who had no other
cause, cast reflections upon me because my size varied somewhat from the common proportion;
and jests were sometimes unthinkingly passed upon me by those I was bound to, who did not in
that case, peradventure, sufficiently consider that the wren is made by the same hand which
formed the bustard, and that the diamond, though small in size, out-values ten thousand-fold
the rude granite. Nevertheless, they proceeded in the vein of humour; and as I could not in
duty or gratitude retort upon nobles and princes, I was compelled to cast about in my mind
how to vindicate my honour towards those, who, being in the same rank with myself, as servants
and courtiers, nevertheless bore themselves towards me as if they were of a superior class
in the rank of honour, as well as in the accidental circumstance of stature. And as a lesson
to my own pride, and that of others, it so happened, that the pageant which I have but just
narrated--which I justly reckon the most honourable moment of my life, excepting perhaps my
distinguished share in the battle of Round-way-down--became the cause of a most tragic event,
in which I acknowledge the greatest misfortune of my existence."

The dwarf here paused, fetched a sigh, big at once with regret, and with the importance becoming
the subject of a tragic history; then proceeded as follows:--

"You would have thought in your simplicity, young gentleman, that the pretty pageant I have
mentioned could only have been quoted to my advantage, as a rare masking frolic, prettily devised,
and not less deftly executed; and yet the malice of the courtiers, who maligned and envied
me, made them strain their wit, and exhaust their ingenuity, in putting false and ridiculous
constructions upon it. In short, my ears were so much offended with allusions to pies, puff-paste,
ovens, and the like, that I was compelled to prohibit such subject of mirth, under penalty
of my instant and severe displeasure. But it happ'd there was then a gallant about the Court,
a man of good quality, son to a knight baronet, and in high esteem with the best in that sphere,
also a familiar friend of mine own, from whom, therefore, I had no reason to expect any of
that species of gibing which I had intimated my purpose to treat as offensive. Howbeit, it
pleased the Honourable Mr. Crofts, so was this youth called and designed, one night, at the
Groom Porter's being full of wine and waggery, to introduce this threadbare subject, and to
say something concerning a goose-pie, which I could not but consider as levelled at me. Nevertheless,
I did but calmly and solidly pray him to choose a different subject; failing which, I let him
know I should be sudden in my resentment. Notwithstanding, he continued in the same tone, and
even aggravated the offence, by speaking of a tomtit, and other unnecessary and obnoxious comparisons;
whereupon I was compelled to send him a cartel, and we met accordingly. Now, as I really loved
the youth, it was my intention only to correct him by a flesh wound or two; and I would willingly
that he had named the sword for his weapon. Nevertheless, he made pistols his election; and
being on horseback, he produced by way of his own weapon, a foolish engine, which children
are wont, in their roguery, to use for spouting water; a--a--in short, I forget the name."

"A squirt, doubtless," said Peveril, who began to recollect having heard something of this
adventure.

"You are right," said the dwarf; "you have indeed the name of the little engine, of which I
have had experience in passing the yards at Westminster.--Well, sir, this token of slight regard
compelled me to give the gentleman such language, as soon rendered it necessary for him to
make more serious arms. We fought on horseback--breaking ground, and advancing by signal; and,
as I never miss aim, I had the misadventure to kill the Honourable Master Crofts at the first
shot. I would not wish my worst foe the pain which I felt, when I saw him reel on his saddle,
and so fall down to the earth!--and, when I perceived that the life-blood was pouring fast,
I could not but wish to Heaven that it had been my own instead of his. Thus fell youth, hopes,
and bravery, a sacrifice to a silly and thoughtless jest; yet, alas! wherein had I choice,
seeing that honour is, as it were, the very breath in our nostrils; and that in no sense can
we be said to live, if we permit ourselves to be deprived of it?"

The tone of feeling in which the dwarfish hero concluded his story, gave Julian a better opinion
of his heart, and even of his understanding, than he had been able to form of one who gloried
in having, upon a grand occasion, formed the contents of a pasty. He was indeed enabled to
conjecture that the little champion was seduced into such exhibitions, by the necessity attached
to his condition, by his own vanity, and by the flattery bestowed on him by those who sought
pleasure in practical jokes. The fate of the unlucky Master Crofts, however, as well as various
exploits of this diminutive person during the Civil Wars, in which he actually, and with great
gallantry, commanded a troop of horse, rendered most men cautious of openly rallying him; which
was indeed the less necessary, as, when left alone, he seldom failed voluntarily to show himself
on the ludicrous side.

At one hour after noon, the turnkey, true to his word, supplied the prisoners with a very tolerable
dinner and a flask of well-flavoured though light claret; which the old man, who was something
of a bon-vivant, regretted to observe, was nearly as diminutive as himself. The evening also
passed away, but not without continued symptoms of garrulity on the part of Geoffrey Hudson.

It is true these were of a graver character than he had hitherto exhibited, for when the flask
was empty, he repeated a long Latin prayer. But the religious act in which he had been engaged,
only gave his discourse a more serious turn than belonged to his former themes, of war, lady's
love, and courtly splendour.

The little Knight harangued, at first on polemical points of divinity, and diverged from this
thorny path, into the neighbouring and twilight walk of mysticism. He talked of secret warnings--of
the predictions of sad-eyed prophets--of the visits of monitory spirits, and the Rosicrucian
secrets of the Cabala; all which topics he treated of with such apparent conviction, nay, with
so many appeals to personal experience, that one would have supposed him a member of the fraternity
of gnomes, or fairies, whom he resembled so much in point of size.

In short, he persevered for a stricken hour in such a torrent of unnecessary tattle, as determined
Peveril, at all events, to endeavour to procure a separate lodging. Having repeated his evening
prayers in Latin, as formerly (for the old gentleman was a Catholic, which was the sole cause
of his falling under suspicion), he set off on a new score, as they were undressing, and continued
to prattle until he had fairly talked both himself and his companion to sleep.

CHAPTER XXXV

              Of airy tongues that syllable men's names.
                                                   --COMUS.

Julian had fallen asleep, with his brain rather filled with his own sad reflections, than with
the mystical lore of the little Knight; and yet it seemed as if in his visions the latter had
been more present to his mind than the former.

He dreamed of gliding spirits, gibbering phantoms, bloody hands, which, dimly seen by twilight,
seemed to beckon him forward like errant-knight on sad adventure bound. More than once he started
from his sleep, so lively was the influence of these visions on his imagination; and he always
awaked under the impression that some one stood by his bedside. The chillness of his ankles,
the weight and clatter of the fetters, as he turned himself on his pallet, reminded him on
these occasions where he was, and under what circumstances. The extremity to which he saw all
that was dear to him at present reduced, struck a deeper cold on his heart than the iron upon
his limbs; nor could he compose himself again to rest without a mental prayer to Heaven for
protection. But when he had been for a third time awakened from repose by these thick-stirring
fancies, his distress of mind vented itself in speech, and he was unable to suppress the almost
despairing ejaculation, "God have mercy upon us!"

"Amen!" answered a voice as sweet and "soft as honey dew," which sounded as if the words were
spoken close by his bedside.

The natural inference was, that Geoffrey Hudson, his companion in calamity, had echoed the
prayer which was so proper to the situation of both. But the tone of voice was so different
from the harsh and dissonant sounds of the dwarf's enunciation, that Peveril was impressed
with the certainty it could not proceed from Hudson. He was struck with involuntary terror,
for which he could give no sufficient reason; and it was not without an effort that he was
able to utter the question, "Sir Geoffrey, did you speak?"

No answer was returned. He repeated the question louder; and the same silver-toned voice, which
had formerly said "Amen" to his prayers, answered to his interrogatory, "Your companion will
not awake while I am here."

"And who are you?--What seek you?--How came you into this place?" said Peveril, huddling, eagerly,
question upon question.

"I am a wretched being, but one who loves you well.--I come for your good.--Concern yourself
no farther."

It now rushed on Julian's mind that he had heard of persons possessed of the wonderful talent
of counterfeiting sounds to such accuracy, that they could impose on their hearers the belief,
that they proceeded from a point of the apartment entirely opposite to that which the real
speaker occupied. Persuaded that he had now gained the depth of the mystery, he replied, "This
trifling, Sir Geoffrey, is unseasonable. Say what you have to say in your own voice and manner.
These apish pleasantries do not become midnight in a Newgate dungeon."

"But the being who speaks with you," answered the voice, "is fitted for the darkest hour, and
the most melancholy haunts."

Impatient of suspense, and determined to satisfy his curiosity, Julian jumped at once from
his pallet, hoping to secure the speaker, whose voice indicated he was so near. But he altogether
failed in his attempt, and grasped nothing save thin air.

For a turn or two, Peveril shuffled at random about the room, with his arms extended; and then
at last recollected, that with the impediment of his shackles, and the noise which necessarily
accompanied his motions, and announced where he was, it would be impossible for him to lay
hands on any one who might be disposed to keep out of his reach. He therefore endeavoured to
return to his bed; but, in groping for his way, lighted first on that of his fellow-prisoner.
The little captive slept deep and heavy, as was evinced from his breathing; and upon listening
a moment, Julian became again certain, either that his companion was the most artful of ventriloquists
and of dissemblers, or that there was actually within the precincts of that guarded chamber,
some third being, whose very presence there seemed to intimate that it belonged not to the
ordinary line of humanity.

Julian was no ready believer in the supernatural; but that age was very far from being so incredulous
concerning ghostly occurrences as our own; and it was no way derogatory to his good sense,
that he shared the prejudices of his time. His hair began to bristle, and the moisture to stand
on his brow, as he called on his companion to awake, for Heaven's sake.

The dwarf answered--but he spoke without awaking.--"The day may dawn and be d--d. Tell the
master of the horse I will not go to the hunting, unless I have the little black jennet."

"I tell you," said Julian, "there is some one in the apartment. Have you not a tinder-box to
strike a light?"

"I care not how slight my horse be," replied the slumberer, pursuing his own train of ideas,
which, doubtless, carried him back to the green woods of Windsor, and the royal deer-hunts
which he had witnessed there. "I am not overweight--I will not ride that great Holstein brute,
that I must climb up to by a ladder, and then sit on his back like a pin-cushion on an elephant."

Julian at length put his hand to the sleeper's shoulder, and shook him, so as to awake him
from his dream; when, after two or three snorts and groans, the dwarf asked peevishly, what
the devil ailed him?

"The devil himself, for what I know," said Peveril, "is at this very moment in the room here
beside us."

The dwarf on this information started up, crossed himself, and began to hammer a flint and
steel with all despatch, until he had lighted a little piece of candle, which he said was consecrated
to Saint Bridget, and as powerful as the herb called fuga dæmonum, or the liver of the fish
burnt by Tobit in the house of Raguel, for chasing all goblins, and evil or dubious spirits,
from the place of its radiance; "if, indeed," as the dwarf carefully guarded his proposition,
"they existed anywhere, save in the imagination of his fellow-prisoner."

Accordingly, the apartment was no sooner enlightened by this holy candle's end, than Julian
began to doubt the evidence of his own ears; for not only was there no one in the room save
Sir Geoffrey Hudson and himself, but all the fastenings of the door were so secure, that it
seemed impossible that they could have been opened and again fixed, without a great deal of
noise, which, on the last occasion at least, could not possibly have escaped his ears, seeing
that he must have been on his feet, and employed in searching the chamber, when the unknown,
if an earthly being, was in the act of retreating from it.

Julian gazed for a moment with great earnestness, and no little perplexity, first on the bolted
door, then on the grated window; and began to accuse his own imagination of having played him
an unpleasant trick. He answered little to the questions of Hudson, and returning to his bed,
heard, in silence, a long studied oration on the merits of Saint Bridget, which comprehended
the greater part of her long-winded legend, and concluded with the assurance, that, from all
accounts preserved of her, that holy saint was the least of all possible women, except those
of the pigmy kind.

By the time the dwarf had ceased to speak, Julian's desire of sleep had returned; and after
a few glances around the apartment, which was still illuminated by the expiring beams of the
holy taper, his eyes were again closed in forgetfulness, and his repose was not again disturbed
in the course of that night.

Morning dawns on Newgate, as well as on the freest mountain-turf which Welshman or wild-goat
ever trode; but in so different a fashion, that the very beams of heaven's precious sun, when
they penetrate into the recesses of the prison-house, have the air of being committed to jail.
Still, with the light of day around him, Peveril easily persuaded himself of the vanity of
his preceding night's visions; and smiled when he reflected that fancies, similar to those
to which his ear was often exposed in the Isle of Man, had been able to arrange themselves
in a manner so impressive, when he heard them from the mouth of so singular a character as
Hudson, and in the solitude of a prison.

Before Julian had awaked, the dwarf had already quitted his bed, and was seated in the chimney-corner
of the apartment, where, with his own hands, he had arranged a morsel of fire, partly attending
to the simmering of a small pot, which he had placed on the flame, partly occupied with a huge
folio volume which lay on the table before him, and seemed well-nigh as tall and bulky as himself.
He was wrapped up in the dusky crimson cloak already mentioned, which served him for a morning-gown,
as well as a mantle against the cold, and which corresponded with a large montero-cap, that
enveloped his head. The singularity of his features, and of the eyes, armed with spectacles,
which were now cast on the subject of his studies, now directed towards his little cauldron,
would have tempted Rembrandt to exhibit him on canvas, either in the character of an alchymist,
or of a necromancer, engaged in some strange experiment, under the direction of one of the
huge manuals which treat of the theory of these mystic arts.

The attention of the dwarf was bent, however, upon a more domestic object. He was only preparing
soup, of no unsavoury quality, for breakfast, which he invited Peveril to partake with him.
"I am an old soldier," he said, "and, I must add, an old prisoner; and understand how to shift
for myself better than you can do, young man.--Confusion to the scoundrel Clink, he has put
the spice-box out of my reach!--Will you hand it me from the mantelpiece?--I will teach you,
as the French have it, faire la cuisine; and then, if you please, we will divide, like brethren,
the labours of our prison house."

Julian readily assented to the little man's friendly proposal, without interposing any doubt
as to his continuing an inmate of the same cell. Truth is, that although, upon the whole, he
was inclined to regard the whispering voice of the preceding evening as the impression of his
own excited fancy, he felt, nevertheless, curiosity to see how a second night was to pass over
in the same cell; and the tone of the invisible intruder, which at midnight had been heard
by him with terror, now excited, on recollection, a gentle and not unpleasing species of agitation--the
combined effect of awe, and of awakened curiosity.

Days of captivity have little to mark them as they glide away. That which followed the night
which we have described afforded no circumstance of note. The dwarf imparted to his youthful
companion a volume similar to that which formed his own studies, and which proved to be a tome
of one of Scuderi's now forgotten romances, of which Geoffrey Hudson was a great admirer, and
which were then very fashionable both at the French and English Courts; although they contrive
to unite in their immense folios all the improbabilities and absurdities of the old romances
of chivalry, without that tone of imagination which pervades them, and all the metaphysical
absurdities which Cowley and the poets of the age had heaped upon the passion of love, like
so many load of small coal upon a slender fire, which it smothers instead of aiding.

But Julian had no alternative, saving only to muse over the sorrows of Artamenes and Mandane,
or on the complicated distresses of his own situation; and in these disagreeable divertisements,
the morning crept through as it could.

Noon first, and thereafter nightfall, were successively marked by a brief visit from their
stern turnkey, who, with noiseless step and sullen demeanour, did in silence the necessary
offices about the meals of the prisoners, exchanging with them as few words as an official
in the Spanish Inquisition might have permitted himself upon a similar occasion. With the same
taciturn gravity, very different from the laughing humour into which he had been surprised
on a former occasion, he struck their fetters with a small hammer, to ascertain, by the sound
thus produced, whether they had been tampered with by file or otherwise. He next mounted on
a table, to make the same experiment on the window-grating.

Julian's heart throbbed; for might not one of those grates have been so tampered with as to
give entrance to the nocturnal visitant? But they returned to the experienced ear of Master
Clink, when he struck them in turn with the hammer, a clear and ringing sound, which assured
him of their security.

"It would be difficult for any one to get in through these defences," said Julian, giving vent
in words to his own feelings.

"Few wish that," answered the surly groom, misconstruing what was passing in Peveril's mind;
"and let me tell you, master, folks will find it quite as difficult to get out." He retired,
and night came on.

The dwarf, who took upon himself for the day the whole duties of the apartment, trundled about
the room, making a most important clatter as he extinguished their fire, and put aside various
matters which had been in use in the course of the day, talking to himself all the while in
a tone of no little consequence, occasionally grounded on the dexterity with which an old soldier
could turn his hand to anything. Then came the repetition of his accustomed prayers; but his
disposition to converse did not, as on the former occasion, revive after his devotions. On
the contrary, long before Julian had closed an eye, the heavy breathing from Sir Geoffrey Hudson's
pallet declared that the dwarf was already in the arms of Morpheus.

Amid the total darkness of the apartment, and with a longing desire, and at the same time no
small fear, for the recurrence of the mysterious address of the preceding evening, Julian lay
long awake without his thoughts receiving any interruption save when the clock told the passing
hour from the neighbouring steeple of St. Sepulchre. At length he sunk into slumber; but had
not slept to his judgment above an hour, when he was roused by the sound which his waking ear
had so long expected in vain.

"Can you sleep?--Will you sleep?--Dare you sleep?" were the questions impressed on his ear,
in the same clear, soft, and melodious voice, which had addressed him on the preceding night.

"Who is it asks me the question?" answered Julian. "But be the questioner good or evil, I reply
that I am a guiltless prisoner; and that innocence may wish and dare to sleep soundly."

"Ask no questions of me," said the voice; "neither attempt to discover who speaks to you; and
be assured that folly alone can sleep, with fraud around and danger before him."

"Can you, who tell me of dangers, counsel me how to combat or how to avoid them?" said Julian.

"My power is limited," said the voice; "yet something I can do, as the glow-worm can show a
precipice. But you must confide in me."

"Confidence must beget confidence," answered Julian. "I cannot repose trust in I know not what
or whom."

"Speak not so loud," replied the voice, sinking almost into a whisper.

"Last night you said my companion would not awake," said Julian.

"To-night I warrant not that he shall sleep," said the voice. And as it spoke, the hoarse,
snatching, discordant tones of the dwarf were heard, demanding of Julian why he talked in his
sleep--wherefore he did not rest himself, and let other people rest--and, finally, whether
his visions of last night were returned upon him again?

"Say yes," said the voice in a whisper, so low, yet so distinct, that Julian almost doubted
whether it was not an echo of his own thought.--"Say but yes--and I part to return no more!"

In desperate circumstances men look to strange and unusual remedies; and although unable to
calculate the chances of advantage which this singular communication opened to him, Julian
did not feel inclined to let them at once escape from him. He answered the dwarf, that he had
been troubled by an alarming dream.

"I could have sworn it, from the sound of your voice," said Hudson. "It is strange, now, that
you overgrown men never possess the extreme firmness of nerves proper to us who are cast in
a more compact mould. My own voice retains its masculine sounds on all occasions. Dr. Cockerel
was of opinion, that there was the same allowance of nerve and sinew to men of every size,
and that nature spun the stock out thinner or stronger, according to the extent of surface
which they were to cover. Hence, the least creatures are oftentimes the strongest. Place a
beetle under a tall candlestick, and the insect will move it by its efforts to get out; which
is, in point of comparative strength, as if one of us should shake his Majesty's prison of
Newgate by similar struggles. Cats also, and weasels, are creatures of greater exertion or
endurance than dogs or sheep. And in general, you may remark, that little men dance better,
and are more unwearied under exertion of every kind, than those to whom their own weight must
necessarily be burdensome. I respect you, Master Peveril, because I am told you have killed
one of those gigantic fellows, who go about swaggering as if their souls were taller than ours,
because their noses are nearer to the clouds by a cubit or two. But do not value yourself on
this as anything very unusual. And indeed you may observe, in sacred as well as profane history,
that your giants are ever heretics and blasphemers, robbers and oppressors, outragers of the
female sex, and scoffers at regular authority. Such were Gog and Magog, whom our authentic
chronicles vouch to have been slain near to Plymouth, by the good little Knight Corineus, who
gave name to Cornwall. Ascaparte also was subdued by Bevis, and Colbrand by Guy, as Southampton
and Warwick can testify. Like unto these was the giant Hoel, slain in Bretagne by King Arthur.
And if Ryence, King of North Wales, who was done to death by the same worthy champion of Christendom,
be not actually termed a giant, it is plain he was little better, since he required twenty-four
kings' beards, which were then worn full and long, to fur his gown; whereby computing each
beard at eighteen inches (and you cannot allow less for a beard-royal), and supposing only
the front of the gown trimmed therewith, as we use ermine; and that the back was mounted and
lined, instead of cat-skins and squirrels' fur, with the beards of earls and dukes, and other
inferior dignitaries--may amount to--But I will work the question to-morrow."

Nothing is more soporific to any (save a philosopher or moneyed man) than the operation of
figures; and when in bed, the effect is irresistible. Sir Geoffrey fell asleep in the act of
calculating King Ryence's height, from the supposed length of his mantle. Indeed, had he not
stumbled on this abstruse subject of calculation, there is no guessing how long he might have
held forth upon the superiority of men of little stature, which was so great a favourite with
him, that, numerous as such narratives are, the dwarf had collected almost all the instances
of their victories over giants, which history or romance afforded.

No sooner had unequivocal signs of the dwarf's sound slumbers reached Julian's ears, than he
began to listen eagerly for the renewal of that mysterious communication which was at once
interesting and awful. Even whilst Hudson was speaking, he had, instead of bestowing his attention
upon his eulogy on persons of low statue, kept his ears on watchful guard to mark if possible,
the lightest sounds of any sort which might occur in the apartment; so that he thought it scarce
possible that even a fly should have left it withouts its motion being overheard. If, therefore,
his invisible monitor was indeed a creature of this world--an opinion which Julian's sound
sense rendered him unwilling to renounce--that being could not have left the apartment; and
he waited impatiently for a renewal of their communication. He was disappointed; not the slightest
sound reached his ear; and the nocturnal visitor, if still in the room, appeared determined
on silence.

It was in vain that Peveril coughed, hemmed, and gave other symptoms of being awake; at length,
such became his impatience, that he resolved, at any risk, to speak first, in hopes of renewing
the communication betwixt them. "Whoever thou art," he said, in a voice loud enough to be heard
by a waking person, but not so high as to disturb his sleeping companion--"Whoever, or whatever
thou art, thou hast shown some interest in the fate of such a castaway as Julian Peveril, speak
once more, I conjure thee; and be your communication for good or evil, believe me, I am equally
prepared to abide the issue."

No answer of any kind was returned to this invocation; nor did the least sound intimate the
presence of the being to whom it was so solemnly addressed.

"I speak in vain," said Julian; "and perhaps I am but invoking that which is insensible of
human feeling, or which takes a malign pleasure in human suffering."

There was a gentle and half-broken sigh from a corner of the apartment, which, answering to
this exclamation, seemed to contradict the imputation which it conveyed.

Julian, naturally courageous, and familiarised by this time to his situation, raised himself
in bed, and stretched out his arm, to repeat his adjuration, when the voice, as if alarmed
at his action and energy, whispered, in a tone more hurried than that which it had hitherto
used, "Be still--move not--or I am mute for ever!"

"It is then a mortal being who is present with me," was the natural inference of Julian, "and
one who is probably afraid of being detected; I have then some power over my visitor, though
I must be cautious how I use it.--If your intents are friendly," he proceeded, "there was never
a time in which I lacked friends more, or would be more grateful for kindness. The fate of
all who are dear to me is weighed in the balance, and with worlds would I buy the tidings of
their safety."

"I have said my power is limited," replied the voice. "You I may be able to preserve--the fate
of your friends is beyond my control."

"Let me at least know it," said Julian; "and, be it as it may, I will not shun to share it."

"For whom would you inquire?" said the soft, sweet voice, not without a tremulousness of accent,
as if the question was put with diffident reluctance.

"My parents," said Julian, after a moment's hesitation; "how fare they?--What will be their fate?"

"They fare as the fort under which the enemy has dug a deadly mine. The work may have cost
the labour of years, such were the impediments to the engineers; but Time brings opportunity
upon its wings."

"And what will be the event?" said Peveril.

"Can I read the future," answered the voice, "save by comparison with past?--Who has been hunted
on these stern and unmitigable accusations, but has been at last brought to bay? Did high and
noble birth, honoured age, and approved benevolence, save the unfortunate Lord Stafford? Did
learning, capacity of intrigue, or high Court favour, redeem Coleman, although the confidential
servant of the heir presumptive of the Crown of England?--Did subtilty and genius, and exertions
of a numerous sect, save Fenwicke, or Whitbread, or any other of the accused priests?--Were
Groves, Pickering, or the other humble wretches who have suffered, safe in their obscurity?
There is no condition in life, no degree of talent, no form of principle, which affords protection
against an accusation, which levels conditions, confounds characters, renders men's virtues
their sins, and rates them as dangerous in proportion as they have influence, though attained
in the noblest manner, and used for the best purposes. Call such a one but an accessory to
the Plot--let him be mouthed in the evidence of Oates or Dugdale--and the blindest shall foresee
the issue of their trial."

"Prophet of Evil!" said Julian, "my father has a shield invulnerable to protect him. He is
innocent."

"Let him plead his innocence at the bar of Heaven," said the voice; "it will serve him little
where Scroggs presides."

"Still I fear not," said Julian, counterfeiting more confidence than he really possessed; "my
father's cause will be pleaded before twelve Englishmen."

"Better before twelve wild beasts," answered the Invisible, "than before Englishmen, influenced
with party prejudice, passion, and epidemic terror of an imaginary danger. They are bold in
guilt in proportion to the number amongst whom the crime is divided."

"Ill-omened speaker," said Julian, "thine is indeed a voice fitted only to sound with the midnight
bell, and the screeching owl. Yet speak again. Tell me, if thou canst"--(He would have said
of Alice Bridgenorth, but the word would not leave his tongue)--"Tell me," he said, "if the
noble house of Derby----"

"Let them keep their rock like the sea-fowl in the tempest; and it may so fall out," answered
the voice, "that their rock may be a safe refuge. But there is blood on their ermine; and revenge
has dogged them for many a year, like a bloodhound that hath been distanced in the morning
chase, but may yet grapple the quarry ere the sun shall set. At present, however, they are
safe.--Am I now to speak farther on your own affairs, which involve little short of your life
and honour?"

"There is," said Julian, "one, from whom I was violently parted yesterday; if I knew but of
her safety, I were little anxious for my own."

"One!" returned the voice, "only one from whom you were parted yesterday?"

"But in parting from whom," said Julian, "I felt separated from all happiness which the world
can give me."

"You mean Alice Bridgenorth," said the Invisible, with some bitterness of accent; "but her
you will never see more. Your own life and hers depend on your forgetting each other."

"I cannot purchase my own life at that price," replied Julian.

"Then DIE in your obstinacy," returned the Invisible; nor to all the entreaties which he used
was he able obtain another word in the course of that remarkable night.

CHAPTER XXXVI

               A short hough'd man, but full of pride.
                                           --ALLAN RAMSAY.

The blood of Julian Peveril was so much fevered by the state in which his invisible visitor
left him, that he was unable, for a length of time, to find repose. He swore to himself, that
he would discover and expose the nocturnal demon which stole on his hours of rest, only to
add gall to bitterness, and to pour poison into those wounds which already smarted so severely.
There was nothing which his power extended to, that, in his rage, he did not threaten. He proposed
a closer and a more rigorous survey of his cell, so that he might discover the mode by which
his tormentor entered, were it as unnoticeable as an auger-hole. If his diligence should prove
unavailing, he determined to inform the jailers, to whom it could not be indifferent to know,
that their prison was open to such intrusions. He proposed to himself, to discover from their
looks whether they were already privy to these visits; and if so, to denounce them to the magistrates,
to the judges, to the House of Commons, was the least that his resentment proposed. Sleep surprised
his worn-out frame in the midst of his projects of discovery and vengeance, and, as frequently
happens, the light of the ensuing day proved favourable to calmer resolutions.

He now reflected that he had no ground to consider the motives of his visitor as positively
malevolent, although he had afforded him little encouragement to hope for assistance on the
points he had most at heart. Towards himself, there had been expressed a decided feeling, both
of sympathy and interest; if through means of these he could acquire his liberty, he might,
when possessed of freedom, turn it to the benefit of those for whom he was more interested
than for his own welfare. "I have behaved like a fool," he said; "I ought to have temporised
with this singular being, learned the motives of its interference, and availed myself of its
succour, provided I could do so without any dishonourable conditions. It would have been always
time enough to reject such when they should have been proposed to me."

So saying, he was forming projects for regulating his intercourse with the stranger more prudently,
in case their communication should be renewed, when his meditations were interrupted by the
peremptory summons of Sir Geoffrey Hudson, that he would, in his turn, be pleased to perform
those domestic duties of their common habitation, which the dwarf had yesterday taken upon himself.

There was no resisting a request so reasonable, and Peveril accordingly rose and betook himself
to the arrangement of their prison, while Sir Hudson, perched upon a stool from which his legs
did not by half-way reach the ground, sat in a posture of elegant languor, twangling upon an
old broken-winded guitar, and singing songs in Spanish, Moorish, and Lingua Franca, most detestably
out of tune. He failed not, at the conclusion of each ditty, to favour Julian with some account
of what he had sung, either in the way of translation, or historical anecdote, or as the lay
was connected with some peculiar part of his own eventful history, in the course of which the
poor little man had chanced to have been taken by a Sallee rover, and carried captive into Morocco.

This part of his life Hudson used to make the era of many strange adventures; and, if he could
himself be believed, he had made wild work among the affections of the Emperor's seraglio.
But, although few were in a situation to cross-examine him on gallantries and intrigues of
which the scene was so remote, the officers of the garrison of Tangier had a report current
amongst them, that the only use to which the tyrannical Moors could convert a slave of such
slender corporeal strength, was to employ him to lie a-bed all day and hatch turkey's eggs.
The least allusion to this rumour used to drive him well-nigh frantic, and the fatal termination
of his duel with young Crofts, which began in wanton mirth, and ended in bloodshed, made men
more coy than they had formerly been, of making the fiery little hero the subject of their
raillery.

While Peveril did the drudgery of the apartment, the dwarf remained much at his ease, carolling
in the manner we have described; but when he beheld Julian attempting the task of the cook,
Sir Geoffrey Hudson sprang from the stool on which he sat en Signor, at the risk of breaking
both his guitar and his neck, exclaiming, "That he would rather prepare breakfast every morning
betwixt this and the day of judgment, than commit a task of such consequence to an inexperienced
bungler like his companion."

The young man gladly resigned his task to the splenetic little Knight, and only smiled at his
resentment when he added, that, to be but a mortal of middle stature, Julian was as stupid
as a giant. Leaving the dwarf to prepare the meal after his own pleasure, Peveril employed
himself in measuring the room with his eyes on every side, and in endeavouring to discover
some private entrance, such as might admit his midnight visitant, and perhaps could be employed
in case of need for effecting his own escape. The floor next engaged a scrutiny equally minute,
but more successful.

Close by his own pallet, and dropped in such a manner that he must have seen it sooner but
for the hurry with which he obeyed the summons of the impatient dwarf, lay a slip of paper,
sealed, and directed with the initial letters, J.P., which seemed to ascertain that it was
addressed to himself. He took the opportunity of opening it while the soup was in the very
moment of projection, and the full attention of his companion was occupied by what he, in common
with wiser and taller men, considered as one of the principal occupations of life; so that,
without incurring his observation or awaking his curiosity, Julian had the opportunity to read
as follows:--

 "Rash and infatuated as you are, there is one who would forfeit
  much to stand betwixt you and your fate. You are to-morrow to be
  removed to the Tower, where your life cannot be assured for a
  single day; for, during the few hours you have been in London, you
  have provoked a resentment which is not easily slaked. There is
  but one chance for you,--renounce A.B.--think no more of her. If
  that be impossible, think of her but as one whom you can never see
  again. If your heart can resolve to give up an attachment which it
  should never have entertained, and which it would be madness to
  cherish longer, make your acquiescence in this condition known by
  putting on your hat a white band, or white feather, or knot of
  ribbon of the same colour, whichever you may most easily come by.
  A boat will, in that case, run, as if by accident, on board of
  that which is to convey you to the Tower. Do you in the confusion
  jump overboard, and swim to the Southwark side of the Thames.
  Friends will attend there to secure your escape, and you will find
  yourself with one who will rather lose character and life, than
  that a hair of your head should fall to the ground; but who, if
  you reject the warning, can only think of you as of the fool who
  perishes in his folly. May Heaven guide you to a sound judgment of
  your condition! So prays one who would be your friend, if you
  pleased,
                                                   "UNKNOWN."

The Tower!--it was a word of terror, even more so than a civil prison; for how many passages
to death did that dark structure present! The severe executions which it had witnessed in preceding
reigns, were not perhaps more numerous than the secret murders which had taken place within
its walls; yet Peveril did not a moment hesitate on the part which he had to perform. "I will
share my father's fate," he said; "I thought but of him when they brought me hither; I will
think of nothing else when they convey me to yonder still more dreadful place of confinement;
it is his, and it is but meet that it should be his son's.--And thou, Alice Bridgenorth, the
day that I renounce thee, may I be held alike a traitor and a dastard!--Go, false adviser,
and share the fate of seducers and heretical teachers!"

He could not help uttering this last expression aloud, as he threw the billet into the fire,
with a vehemence which made the dwarf start with surprise. "What say you of burning heretics,
young man?" he exclaimed; "by my faith, your zeal must be warmer than mine, if you talk on
such a subject when the heretics are the prevailing number. May I measure six feet without
my shoes, but the heretics would have the best of it if we came to that work. Beware of such
words."

"Too late to beware of words spoken and heard," said the turnkey, who, opening the door with
unusual precautions to avoid noise, had stolen unperceived into the room; "However, Master
Peveril has behaved like a gentlemen, and I am no tale-bearer, on condition he will consider
I have had trouble in his matters."

Julian had no alternative but to take the fellow's hint and administer a bribe, with which
Master Clink was so well satisfied, that he exclaimed, "It went to his heart to take leave
of such a kind-natured gentleman, and that he could have turned the key on him for twenty years
with pleasure. But the best friends must part."

"I am to be removed, then?" said Julian.

"Ay, truly, master, the warrant is come from the Council."

"To convey me to the Tower."

"Whew!" exclaimed the officer of the law--"who the devil told you that? But since you do know
it, there is no harm to say ay. So make yourself ready to move immediately; and first, hold
out your dew-beaters till I take off the darbies."

"Is that usual?" said Peveril, stretching out his feet as the fellow directed, while his fetters
were unlocked.

"Why, ay, master, these fetters belong to the keeper; they are not a-going to send them to
the Lieutenant, I trow. No, no, the warders must bring their own gear with them; they get none
here, I promise them. Nevertheless, if your honour hath a fancy to go in fetters, as thinking
it may move compassion of your case----"

"I have no intention to make my case seem worse than it is," said Julian; whilst at the same
time it crossed his mind that his anonymous correspondent must be well acquainted both with
his own personal habits, since the letter proposed a plan of escape which could only be executed
by a bold swimmer, and with the fashions of prison, since it was foreseen that he would not
be ironed on his passage to the Tower. The turnkey's next speech made him carry conjecture
still farther.

"There is nothing in life I would not do for so brave a guest," said Clink; "I would nab one
of my wife's ribbons for you, if your honour had the fancy to mount the white flag in your beaver."

"To what good purpose?" said Julian, shortly connecting, as was natural, the man's proposed
civility with the advice given and the signal prescribed in the letter.

"Nay, to no good purpose I know of," said the turnkey; "only it is the fashion to seem white
and harmless--a sort of token of not-guiltiness, as I may say, which folks desire to show the
world, whether they be truly guilty or not; but I cannot say that guiltiness or not-guiltiness
argufies much, saving they be words in the verdict."

"Strange," thought Peveril, although the man seemed to speak quite naturally, and without any
double meaning, "strange that all should apparently combine to realise the plan of escape,
could I but give my consent to it! And had I not better consent? Whoever does so much for me
must wish me well, and a well-wisher would never enforce the unjust conditions on which I am
required to consent to my liberation."

But this misgiving of his resolution was but for a moment. He speedily recollected, that whoever
aided him in escaping, must be necessarily exposed to great risk, and had a right to name the
stipulation on which he was willing to incur it. He also recollected that falsehood is equally
base, whether expressed in words or in dumb show; and that he should lie as flatly by using
the signal agreed upon in evidence of his renouncing Alice Bridgenorth, as he would in direct
terms if he made such renunciation without the purpose of abiding by it.

"If you would oblige me," he said to the turnkey, "let me have a piece of black silk or crape
for the purpose you mention."

"Of crape!" said the fellow; "what should that signify? Why, the bien morts, who bing out to
tour at you,[*] will think you a chimney-sweeper on Mayday."

     [*] The smart girls, who turn out to look at you.

"It will show my settled sorrow," said Julian, "as well as my determined resolution."

"As you will, sir," answered the fellow; "I'll provide you with a black rag of some kind or
other. So, now; let us be moving."

Julian intimated his readiness to attend him, and proceeded to bid farewell to his late companion,
the stout Geoffrey Hudson. The parting was not without emotion on both sides, more particularly
on that of the poor little man, who had taken a particular liking to the companion of whom
he was now about to be deprived. "Fare ye well," he said, "my young friend," taking Julian's
hand in both his own uplifted palms, in which action he somewhat resembled the attitude of
a sailor pulling a rope overhead,--"Many in my situation would think himself wronged, as a
soldier and servant of the king's chamber, in seeing you removed to a more honourable prison
than that which I am limited unto. But, I thank God, I grudge you not the Tower, nor the rocks
of Scilly, nor even Carisbrooke Castle, though the latter was graced with the captivity of
my blessed and martyred master. Go where you will, I wish you all the distinction of an honourable
prison-house, and a safe and speedy deliverance in God's own time. For myself, my race is near
a close, and that because I fall martyr to the over-tenderness of my own heart. There is a
circumstance, good Master Julian Peveril, which should have been yours, had Providence permitted
our farther intimacy, but it fits not the present hour. Go, then, my friend, and bear witness
in life and death, that Geoffrey Hudson scorns the insults and persecutions of fortune, as
he would despise, and has often despised, the mischievous pranks of an overgrown schoolboy."

So saying, he turned away, and hid his face with his little handkerchief, while Julian felt
towards him that tragi-comic sensation which makes us pity the object which excites it, not
the less that we are somewhat inclined to laugh amid our sympathy. The jailer made him a signal,
which Peveril obeyed, leaving the dwarf to disconsolate solitude.

As Julian followed the keeper through the various windings of his penal labyrinth, the man
observed, that "he was a rum fellow, that little Sir Geoffrey, and, for gallantry, a perfect
Cock of Bantam, for as old as he was. There was a certain gay wench," he said, "that had hooked
him; but what she could make of him, save she carried him to Smithfield, and took money for
him, as for a motion of puppets, it was," he said, "hard to gather."

Encouraged by this opening, Julian asked if his attendant knew why his prison was changed.
"To teach you to become a King's post without commission," answered the fellow.

He stopped in his tattle as they approached that formidable central point, in which lay couched
on his leathern elbow-chair the fat commander of the fortress, stationed apparently for ever
in the midst of his citadel, as the huge Boa is sometimes said to lie stretched as a guard
upon the subterranean treasures of Eastern Rajas. This overgrown man of authority eyed Julian
wistfully and sullenly, as the miser the guinea which he must part with, or the hungry mastiff
the food which is carried to another kennel. He growled to himself as he turned the leaves
of his ominous register, in order to make the necessary entry respecting the removal of his
prisoner. "To the Tower--to the Tower--ay, ay, all must to the Tower--that's the fashion of
it--free Britons to a military prison, as if we had neither bolts nor chains here!--I hope
Parliament will have it up, this Towering work, that's all.--Well, the youngster will take
no good by the change, and that is one comfort."

Having finished at once his official act of registration, and his soliloquy, he made a signal
to his assistants to remove Julian, who was led along the same stern passages which he had
traversed upon his entrance, to the gate of the prison, whence a coach, escorted by two officers
of justice, conveyed him to the water-side.

A boat here waited him, with four warders of the Tower, to whose custody he was formally resigned
by his late attendants. Clink, however, the turnkey, with whom he was more especially acquainted,
did not take leave of him without furnishing him with the piece of black crape which he requested.
Peveril fixed it on his hat amid the whispers of his new guardians. "The gentleman is in a
hurry to go into mourning," said one; "mayhap he had better wait till he has cause."

"Perhaps others may wear mourning for him, ere he can mourn for any one," answered another
of these functionaries.

Yet notwithstanding the tenor of these whispers, their behaviour to their prisoner was more
respectful than he had experienced from his former keepers, and might be termed a sullen civility.
The ordinary officers of the law were in general rude, as having to do with felons of every
description; whereas these men were only employed with persons accused of state crimes--men
who were from birth and circumstances usually entitled to expect, and able to reward, decent usage.

The change of keepers passed unnoticed by Julian, as did the gay and busy scene presented by
the broad and beautiful river on which he was now launched. A hundred boats shot past them,
bearing parties intent on business, or on pleasure. Julian only viewed them with the stern
hope, that whoever had endeavoured to bribe him from his fidelity by the hope of freedom, might
see, from the colour of the badge which he had assumed, how determined he was to resist the
temptation presented to him.

It was about high-water, and a stout wherry came up the river, with sail and oar, so directly
upon that in which Julian was embarked, that it seemed as if likely to run her aboard. "Get
your carabines ready," cried the principal warder to his assistants. "What the devil can these
scoundrels mean?"

But the crew in the other boat seemed to have perceived their error, for they suddenly altered
their course, and struck off into the middle stream, while a torrent of mutual abuse was exchanged
betwixt them and the boat whose course they had threatened to impede.

"The Unknown has kept his faith," said Julian to himself; "I too have kept mine."

It even seemed to him, as the boats neared each other, that he heard, from the other wherry,
something like a stifled scream or groan; and when the momentary bustle was over, he asked
the warder who sat next him, what boat that was.

"Men-of-war's-men, on a frolic, I suppose," answered the warder. "I know no one else would
be so impudent as run foul of the King's boat; for I am sure the fellow put the helm up on
purpose. But mayhap you, sir, know more of the matter than I do."

This insinuation effectually prevented Julian from putting farther questions, and he remained
silent until the boat came under the dusky bastions of the Tower. The tide carried them up
under a dark and lowering arch, closed at the upper end by the well-known Traitor's gate,[*]
formed like a wicket of huge intersecting bars of wood, through which might be seen a dim and
imperfect view of soldiers and warders upon duty, and of the steep ascending causeway which
leads up from the river into the interior of the fortress. By this gate,--and it is the well-known
circumstance which assigned its name,--those accused of state crimes were usually committed
to the Tower. The Thames afforded a secret and silent mode of conveyance for transporting thither
such whose fallen fortunes might move the commiseration, or whose popular qualities might excite
the sympathy, of the public; and even where no cause for especial secrecy existed, the peace
of the city was undisturbed by the tumult attending the passage of the prisoner and his guards
through the most frequented streets.

     [*] See note, "Fortunes of Nigel."

Yet this custom, however recommended by state policy, must have often struck chill upon the
heart of the criminal, who thus, stolen, as it were, out of society, reached the place of his
confinement, without encountering even one glance of compassion on the road; and as, from under
the dusky arch, he landed on those flinty steps, worn by many a footstep anxious as his own,
against which the tide lapped fitfully with small successive waves, and hence looked forward
to the steep ascent into a Gothic state prison, and backward to such part of the river as the
low-brow'd vault suffered to become visible, he must often have felt that he was leaving daylight,
hope, and life itself, behind him.

While the warder's challenge was made and answered, Peveril endeavoured to obtain information
from his conductors where he was likely to be confined; but the answer was brief and general--"Where
the Lieutenant should direct."

"Could he not be permitted to share the imprisonment of his father, Sir Geoffrey Peveril?"
He forgot not, on this occasion, to add the surname of his house.

The warder, an old man of respectable appearance, stared, as if at the extravagance of the
demand, and said bluntly, "It is impossible."

"At least," said Peveril, "show me where my father is confined, that I may look upon the walls
which separate us."

"Young gentleman," said the senior warder, shaking his grey head, "I am sorry for you; but
asking questions will do you no service. In this place we know nothing of fathers and sons."

Yet chance seemed, in a few minutes afterwards, to offer Peveril that satisfaction which the
rigour of his keepers was disposed to deny to him. As he was conveyed up the steep passage
which leads under what is called the Wakefield Tower, a female voice, in a tone wherein grief
and joy were indescribably mixed, exclaimed, "My son!--My dear son!"

Even those who guarded Julian seemed softened by a tone of such acute feeling. They slackened
their pace. They almost paused to permit him to look up towards the casement from which the
sounds of maternal agony proceeded; but the aperture was so narrow, and so closely grated,
that nothing was visible save a white female hand, which grasped one of those rusty barricadoes,
as if for supporting the person within, while another streamed a white handkerchief, and then
let it fall. The casement was instantly deserted.

"Give it me," said Julian to the officer who lifted the handkerchief; "it is perhaps a mother's
last gift."

The old warder lifted the napkin, and looked at it with the jealous minuteness of one who is
accustomed to detect secret correspondence in the most trifling acts of intercourse.

"There may be writing on it with invisible ink," said one of his comrades.

"It is wetted, but I think it is only with tears," answered the senior. "I cannot keep it from
the poor young gentleman."

"Ah, Master Coleby," said his comrade, in a gentle tone of reproach, "you would have been wearing
a better coat than a yeoman's to-day, had it not been for your tender heart."

"It signifies little," said old Coleby, "while my heart is true to my King, what I feel in
discharging my duty, or what coat keeps my old bosom from the cold weather."

Peveril, meanwhile, folded in his breast the token of his mother's affection which chance had
favoured him with; and when placed in the small and solitary chamber which he was told to consider
as his own during his residence in the Tower, he was soothed even to weeping by this trifling
circumstance, which he could not help considering as an omen, that his unfortunate house was
not entirely deserted by Providence.

But the thoughts and occurrences of a prison are too uniform for a narrative, and we must now
convey our readers into a more bustling scene.

CHAPTER XXXVII

           Henceforth 'tis done--Fortune and I are friends;
           And I must live, for Buckingham commends.
                                                       --POPE.

The spacious mansion of the Duke of Buckingham, with the demesne belonging to it, originally
bore the name of York House and occupied a large portion of the ground adjacent to the Savoy.

This had been laid out by the munificence of his father, the favourite of Charles the First,
in a most splendid manner, so as almost to rival Whitehall itself. But during the increasing
rage for building new streets, and the creating of almost an additional town, in order to connect
London and Westminster, this ground had become of very great value; and the second Duke of
Buckingham, who was at once fond of scheming, and needy of money, had agreed to a plan laid
before him by some adventurous architect, for converting the extensive grounds around his palace
into those streets, lanes, and courts, which still perpetuate his name and titles; though those
who live in Buckingham Street, Duke Street, Villiers Street, or in Of-alley (for even that
connecting particle is locally commemorated), probably think seldom of the memory of the witty,
eccentric, and licentious George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, whose titles are preserved in
the names of their residence and its neighbourhood.

This building-plan the Duke had entered upon with all the eagerness which he usually attached
to novelty. His gardens were destroyed--his pavilions levelled--his splendid stables demolished--the
whole pomp of his suburban demesne laid waste, cumbered with ruins, and intersected with the
foundations of new buildings and cellars, and the process of levelling different lines for
the intended streets. But the undertaking, although it proved afterwards both lucrative and
successful, met with a check at the outset, partly from want of the necessary funds, partly
from the impatient and mercurial temper of the Duke, which soon carried him off in pursuit
of some more new object. So that, though much was demolished, very little, in comparison, was
reared up in the stead, and nothing was completed. The principal part of the ducal mansion
still remained uninjured; but the demesne in which it stood bore a strange analogy to the irregular
mind of its noble owner. Here stood a beautiful group of exotic trees and shrubs, the remnant
of the garden, amid yawning common-sewers, and heaps of rubbish. In one place an old tower
threatened to fall upon the spectator; and in another he ran the risk of being swallowed up
by a modern vault. Grandeur of conception could be discovered in the undertaking, but was almost
everywhere marred by poverty or negligence of execution. In short, the whole place was the
true emblem of an understanding and talents run to waste, and become more dangerous than advantageous
to society, by the want of steady principle, and the improvidence of the possessor.

There were men who took a different view of the Duke's purpose in permitting his mansion to
be thus surrounded, and his demesne occupied by modern buildings which were incomplete, and
ancient which were but half demolished. They alleged, that, engaged as he was in so many mysteries
of love and of politics, and having the character of the most daring and dangerous intriguer
of his time, his Grace found it convenient to surround himself with this ruinous arena, into
which officers of justice could not penetrate without some difficulty and hazard; and which
might afford, upon occasion, a safe and secret shelter for such tools as were fit for desperate
enterprises, and a private and unobserved mode of access to those whom he might have any special
reason for receiving in secret.

Leaving Peveril in the Tower, we must once more convey our readers to the Levee of the Duke,
who, on the morning of Julian's transference to that fortress, thus addressed his minister-in-chief,
and principal attendant: "I have been so pleased with your conduct in this matter, Jerningham,
that if Old Nick were to arise in our presence, and offer me his best imp as a familiar in
thy room, I would hold it but a poor compliment."

"A legion of imps," said Jerningham, bowing, "could not have been more busy than I in your
Grace's service; but if your Grace will permit me to say so, your whole plan was well-nigh
marred by your not returning home till last night, or rather this morning."

"And why, I pray you, sage Master Jerningham," said his Grace, "should I have returned home
an instant sooner than my pleasure and convenience served?"

"Nay, my Lord Duke," replied the attendant, "I know not; only, when you sent us word by Empson,
in Chiffinch's apartment, to command us to make sure of the girl at any rate, and at all risks,
you said you would be here so soon as you could get freed of the King."

"Freed of the King, you rascal! What sort of phrase is that?" demanded the Duke.

"It was Empson who used it, my lord, as coming from your Grace."

"There is much very fit for my Grace to say, that misbecomes such mouths as Empson's or yours
to repeat," answered the Duke haughtily, but instantly resumed his tone of familiarity, for
his humour was as capricious as his pursuits. "But I know what thou wouldst have; first, your
wisdom would know what became of me since thou hadst my commands at Chiffinch's; and next,
your valour would fain sound another flourish of trumpets on thine own most artificial retreat,
leaving thy comrade in the hands of the Philistines."

"May it please your Grace," said Jerningham, "I did but retreat for the preservation of the
baggage."

"What! do you play at crambo with me?" said the Duke. "I would have you to know that the common
parish fool should be whipt, were he to attempt to pass pun or quodlibet as a genuine jest,
even amongst ticket-porters and hackney chairmen."

"And yet I have heard your Grace indulge in the jeu de mots," answered the attendant.

"Sirrah Jerningham," answered the patron, "discard they memory, or keep it under correction,
else it will hamper thy rise in the world. Thou mayst perchance have seen me also have a fancy
to play at trap-ball, or to kiss a serving wench, or to guzzle ale and eat toasted cheese in
a porterly whimsy; but is it fitting thou shouldst remember such follies? No more on't.--Hark
you; how came the long lubberly fool, Jenkins, being a master of the noble science of defence,
to suffer himself to be run through the body so simply by a rustic swain like this same Peveril?"

"Please your Grace, this same Corydon is no such novice. I saw the onset; and, except in one
hand, I never saw a sword managed with such life, grace, and facility."

"Ay, indeed?" said the Duke, taking his own sheathed rapier in his hand, "I could not have
thought that. I am somewhat rusted, and have need of breathing. Peveril is a name of note.
As well go to the Barns-elms, or behind Montagu House, with him as with another. His father
a rumoured plotter, too. The public would have noted it in me as becoming a zealous Protestant.
Needful I do something to maintain my good name in the city, to atone for non-attendance on
prayer and preaching. But your Laertes is fast in the Fleet; and I suppose his blundering blockhead
of an antagonist is dead or dying."

"Recovering, my lord, on the contrary," replied Jerningham; "the blade fortunately avoided
his vitals."

"D--n his vitals!" answered the Duke. "Tell him to postpone his recovery, or I will put him
to death in earnest."

"I will caution his surgeon," said Jerningham, "which will answer equally well."

"Do so; and tell him he had better be on his own deathbed as cure his patient till I send him
notice.--That young fellow must be let loose again at no rate."

"There is little danger," said the attendant. "I hear some of the witnesses have got their
net flung over him on account of some matters down in the north; and that he is to be translated
to the Tower for that, and for some letters of the Countess of Derby, as rumour goes."

"To the Tower let him go, and get out as he can," replied the Duke; "and when you hear he is
fast there, let the fencing fellow recover as fast as the surgeon and he can mutually settle it."

The Duke, having said this, took two or three turns in the apartment, and appeared to be in
deep thought. His attendant waited the issue of his meditations with patience, being well aware
that such moods, during which his mind was strongly directed in one point, were never of so
long duration with his patron as to prove a severe burden to his own patience.

Accordingly, after the silence of seven or eight minutes, the Duke broke through it, taking
from the toilette a large silk purse, which seemed full of gold. "Jerningham," he said, "thou
art a faithful fellow, and it would be sin not to cherish thee. I beat the King at Mall on
his bold defiance. The honour is enough for me; and thou, my boy, shalt have the winnings."

Jerningham pocketed the purse with due acknowledgements.

"Jerningham," his Grace continued, "I know you blame me for changing my plans too often; and
on my soul I have heard you so learned on the subject, that I have become of your opinion,
and have been vexed at myself for two or three hours together, for not sticking as constantly
to one object, as doubtless I shall, when age (touching his forehead) shall make this same
weathercock too rusty to turn with the changing breeze. But as yet, while I have spirit and
action, let it whirl like the vane at the mast-head, which teaches the pilot how to steer his
course; and when I shift mine, think I am bound to follow Fortune, and not to control her."

"I can understand nothing from all this, please your Grace," replied Jerningham, "save that
you have been pleased to change some purposed measures, and think that you have profited by
doing so."

"You shall judge yourself," replied the Duke. "I have seen the Duchess of Portsmouth.--You
start. It is true, by Heaven! I have seen her, and from sworn enemies we have become sworn
friends. The treaty between such high and mighty powers had some weighty articles; besides,
I had a French negotiator to deal with; so that you will allow a few hours' absence was but
a necessary interval to make up our matters of diplomacy."

"Your Grace astonishes me," said Jerningham. "Christian's plan of supplanting the great lady
is then entirely abandoned? I thought you had but desired to have the fair successor here,
in order to carry it on under your own management."

"I forgot what I meant at the time," said the Duke; "unless that I was resolved she should
not jilt me as she did the good-natured man of royalty; and so I am still determined, since
you put me in mind of the fair Dowsabelle. But I had a contrite note from the Duchess while
we were at the Mall. I went to see her, and found her a perfect Niobe.--On my soul, in spite
of red eyes and swelled features, and dishevelled hair, there are, after all, Jerningham, some
women who do, as the poets say, look lovely in affliction. Out came the cause; and with such
humility, such penitence, such throwing herself on my mercy (she the proudest devil, too, in
the whole Court), that I must have had heart of steel to resist it all. In short, Chiffinch
in a drunken fit had played the babbler, and let young Saville into our intrigue. Saville plays
the rogue, and informs the Duchess by a messenger, who luckily came a little late into the
market. She learned, too, being a very devil for intelligence, that there had been some jarring
between the master and me about this new Phillis; and that I was most likely to catch the bird,--as
any one may see who looks on us both. It must have been Empson who fluted all this into her
Grace's ear; and thinking she saw how her ladyship and I could hunt in couples, she entreats
me to break Christian's scheme, and keep the wench out of the King's sight, especially if she
were such a rare piece of perfection as fame has reported her."

"And your Grace has promised her your hand to uphold the influence which you have so often
threatened to ruin?" said Jerningham.

"Ay, Jerningham; my turn was as much served when she seemed to own herself in my power, and
cry me mercy.--And observe, it is all one to me by which ladder I climb into the King's cabinet.
That of Portsmouth is ready fixed--better ascend by it than fling it down to put up another--I
hate all unnecessary trouble."

"And Christian?" said Jerningham.

"May go to the devil for a self-conceited ass. One pleasure of this twist of intrigue is, to
revenge me of that villain, who thought himself so essential, that, by Heaven! he forced himself
on my privacy, and lectured me like a schoolboy. Hang the cold-blooded hypocritical vermin!
If he mutters, I will have his nose slit as wide as Coventry's.[*]--Hark ye, is the Colonel come?"

"I expect him every moment, your Grace."

[*] The ill-usage of Sir John Coventry by some of the Life Guardsmen,
    in revenge of something said in Parliament concerning the King's
    theatrical amours, gave rise to what was called Coventry's Act,
    against cutting and maiming the person.

"Send him up when he arrives," said the Duke.----"Why do you stand looking at me? What would
you have?"

"Your Grace's direction respecting the young lady," said Jerningham.

"Odd zooks," said the Duke, "I had totally forgotten her.--Is she very tearful?--Exceedingly
afflicted?"

"She does not take on so violently as I have seen some do," said Jerningham; "but for a strong,
firm, concentrated indignation, I have seen none to match her."

"Well, we will permit her to cool. I will not face the affliction of a second fair one immediately.
I am tired of snivelling, and swelled eyes, and blubbered cheeks for some time; and, moreover,
must husband my powers of consolation. Begone, and send the Colonel."

"Will your Grace permit me one other question?" demanded his confidant.

"Ask what thou wilt, Jerningham, and then begone."

"Your Grace has determined to give up Christian," said the attendant. "May I ask what becomes
of the kingdom of Man?"

"Forgotten, as I have a Christian soul!" said the Duke; "as much forgotten as if I had never
nourished that scheme of royal ambition.--D--n it, we must knit up the ravelled skein of that
intrigue.--Yet it is but a miserable rock, not worth the trouble I have been bestowing on it;
and for a kingdom--it has a sound indeed; but, in reality, I might as well stick a cock-chicken's
feather into my hat, and call it a plume. Besides, now I think upon it, it would scarce be
honourable to sweep that petty royalty out of Derby's possession. I won a thousand pieces of
the young Earl when he was last here, and suffered him to hang about me at Court. I question
if the whole revenue of his kingdom is worth twice as much. Easily I could win it of him, were
he here, with less trouble than it would cost me to carry on these troublesome intrigues of
Christian's."

"If I may be permitted to say so, please your Grace," answered Jerningham, "although your Grace
is perhaps somewhat liable to change your mind, no man in England can afford better reasons
for doing so."

"I think so myself, Jerningham," said the Duke; "and it may be it is one reason for my changing.
One likes to vindicate his own conduct, and to find out fine reasons for doing what one has
a mind to.--And now, once again, begone. Or, hark ye--hark ye--I shall need some loose gold.
You may leave the purse I gave you; and I will give you an order for as much, and two years'
interest, on old Jacob Doublefee."

"As your Grace pleases," said Jerningham, his whole stock of complaisance scarcely able to
conceal his mortification at exchanging for a distant order, of a kind which of late had not
been very regularly honoured, the sunny contents of the purse which had actually been in his
pocket. Secretly, but solemnly did he make a vow, that two years' interest alone should not
be the compensation for this involuntary exchange in the form of his remuneration.

As the discontented dependant left the apartment, he met, at the head of the grand staircase,
Christian himself, who, exercising the freedom of an ancient friend of the house, was making
his way, unannounced, to the Duke's dressing apartment. Jerningham, conjecturing that his visit
at this crisis would be anything but well timed, or well taken, endeavoured to avert his purpose
by asserting that the Duke was indisposed, and in his bedchamber; and this he said so loud
that his master might hear him, and, if he pleased, realise the apology which he offered in
his name, by retreating into the bedroom as his last sanctuary, and drawing the bolt against
intrusion.

But, far from adopting a stratagem to which he had had recourse on former occasions, in order
to avoid those who came upon him, though at an appointed hour, and upon business of importance,
Buckingham called, in a loud voice, from his dressing apartment, commanding his chamberlain
instantly to introduce his good friend Master Christian, and censuring him for hesitating for
an instant to do so.

"Now," thought Jerningham within himself, "if Christian knew the Duke as well as I do, he would
sooner stand the leap of a lion, like the London 'prentice bold, than venture on my master
at this moment, who is even now in a humour nearly as dangerous as the animal."

He then ushered Christian into his master's presence, taking care to post himself within earshot
of the door.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

        "Speak not of niceness, when there's chance of wreck,"
        The captain said, as ladies writhed their neck
        To see the dying dolphin flap the deck:
        "If we go down, on us these gentry sup;
        We dine upon them, if we haul them up.
        Wise men applaud us when we eat the eaters,
        As the devil laughs when keen folks cheat the cheaters."
                                                   --THE SEA VOYAGE.

There was nothing in Duke's manner towards Christian which could have conveyed to that latter
personage, experienced as he was in the worst possible ways of the world, that Buckingham would,
at that particular moment, rather have seen the devil than himself; unless it was that Buckingham's
reception of him, being rather extraordinarily courteous towards so old an acquaintance, might
have excited some degree of suspicion.

Having escaped with some difficulty from the vague region of general compliments, which bears
the same relation to that of business that Milton informs us the Limbo Patrum has to the sensible
and material earth, Christian asked his Grace of Buckingham, with the same blunt plainness
with which he usually veiled a very deep and artificial character, whether he had lately seen
Chiffinch or his helpmate?

"Neither of them lately," answered Buckingham. "Have not you waited on them yourself?--I thought
you would have been more anxious about the great scheme."

"I have called once and again," said Christian, "but I can gain no access to the sight of that
important couple. I begin to be afraid they are paltering with me."

"Which, by the welkin and its stars, you would not be slow in avenging, Master Christian. I
know your puritanical principles on that point well," said the Duke. "Revenge may be well said
to be sweet, when so many grave and wise men are ready to exchange for it all the sugar-plums
which pleasures offer to the poor sinful people of the world, besides the reversion of those
which they talk of expecting in the way of post obit."

"You may jest, my lord," said Christian, "but still----"

"But still you will be revenged on Chiffinch, and his little commodious companion. And yet
the task may be difficult--Chiffinch has so many ways of obliging his master--his little woman
is such a convenient pretty sort of a screen, and has such winning little ways of her own,
that, in faith, in your case, I would not meddle with them. What is this refusing their door,
man? We all do it to our best friends now and then, as well as to duns and dull company."

"If your Grace is in a humour of rambling thus wildly in your talk," said Christian, "you know
my old faculty of patience--I can wait till it be your pleasure to talk more seriously."

"Seriously!" said his Grace--"Wherefore not?--I only wait to know what your serious business
may be."

"In a word, my lord, from Chiffinch's refusal to see me, and some vain calls which I have made
at your Grace's mansion, I am afraid either that our plan has miscarried, or that there is
some intention to exclude me from the farther conduct of the matter." Christian pronounced
these words with considerable emphasis.

"That were folly as well as treachery," returned the Duke, "to exclude from the spoil the very
engineer who conducted the attack. But hark ye, Christian--I am sorry to tell bad news without
preparation; but as you insist on knowing the worst, and are not ashamed to suspect your best
friends, out it must come--Your niece left Chiffinch's house the morning before yesterday."

Christian staggered, as if he had received a severe blow; and the blood ran to his face in
such a current of passion, that the Duke concluded he was struck with an apoplexy. But, exerting
the extraordinary command which he could maintain under the most trying circumstances, he said,
with a voice, the composure of which had an unnatural contrast with the alteration of his countenance,
"Am I to conclude, that in leaving the protection of the roof in which I placed her, the girl
has found shelter under that of your Grace?"

"Sir," replied Buckingham gravely, "the supposition does my gallantry more credit than it deserves."

"Oh, my Lord Duke," answered Christian, "I am not one whom you can impose on by this species
of courtly jargon. I know of what your Grace is capable; and that to gratify the caprice of
a moment you would not hesitate to disappoint even the schemes at which you yourself have laboured
most busily.--Suppose this jest played off. Take your laugh at those simple precautions by
which I intended to protect your Grace's interest, as well as that of others. Let us know the
extent of your frolic, and consider how far its consequences can be repaired."

"On my word, Christian," said the Duke, laughing, "you are the most obliging of uncles and
of guardians. Let your niece pass through as many adventures as Boccaccio's bride of the King
of Garba, you care not. Pure or soiled, she will still make the footstool of your fortune."

An Indian proverb says, that the dart of contempt will even pierce through the shell of the
tortoise; but this is more peculiarly the case when conscience tells the subject of the sarcasm
that it is justly merited. Christian, stung with Buckingham's reproach, at once assumed a haughty
and threatening mien, totally inconsistent with that in which sufferance seemed to be as much
his badge as that of Shylock. "You are a foul-mouthed and most unworthy lord," he said; "and
as such I will proclaim you, unless you make reparation for the injury you have done me."

"And what," said the Duke of Buckingham, "shall I proclaim you, that can give you the least
title to notice from such as I am? What name shall I bestow on the little transaction which
has given rise to such unexpected misunderstanding?"

Christian was silent, either from rage or from mental conviction.

"Come, come, Christian," said the Duke, smiling, "we know too much of each other to make a
quarrel safe. Hate each other we may--circumvent each other--it is the way of Courts--but proclaim!--a
fico for the phrase."

"I used it not," said Christian, "till your Grace drove me to extremity. You know, my lord,
I have fought both at home and abroad; and you should not rashly think that I will endure any
indignity which blood can wipe away."

"On the contrary," said the Duke, with the same civil and sneering manner, "I can confidently
assert, that the life of half a score of your friends would seem very light to you, Christian,
if their existence interfered, I do not say with your character, as being a thing of much less
consequence, but with any advantage which their existence might intercept. Fie upon it, man,
we have known each other long. I never thought you a coward; and am only glad to see I could
strike a few sparkles of heat out of your cold and constant disposition. I will now, if you
please, tell you at once the fate of the young lady, in which I pray you to believe that I
am truly interested."

"I hear you, my Lord Duke," said Christian. "The curl of your upper lip, and your eyebrow,
does not escape me. Your Grace knows the French proverb, 'He laughs best who laughs last.'
But I hear you."

"Thank Heaven you do," said Buckingham; "for your case requires haste, I promise you, and involves
no laughing matter. Well then, hear a simple truth, on which (if it became me to offer any
pledge for what I assert to be such) I could pledge life, fortune, and honour. It was the morning
before last, when meeting with the King at Chiffinch's unexpectedly--in fact I had looked in
to fool an hour away, and to learn how your scheme advanced--I saw a singular scene. Your niece
terrified little Chiffinch--(the hen Chiffinch, I mean)--bid the King defiance to his teeth,
and walked out of the presence triumphantly, under the guardianship of a young fellow of little
mark or likelihood, excepting a tolerable personal presence, and the advantage of a most unconquerable
impudence. Egad, I can hardly help laughing to think how the King and I were both baffled;
for I will not deny, that I had tried to trifle for a moment with the fair Indamora. But, egad,
the young fellow swooped her off from under our noses, like my own Drawcansir clearing off
the banquet from the two Kings of Brentford. There was a dignity in the gallant's swaggering
retreat which I must try to teach Mohun;[*] it will suit his part admirably."

     [*] Then a noted actor.

"This is incomprehensible, my Lord Duke," said Christian, who by this time had recovered all
his usual coolness; "you cannot expect me to believe this. Who dared be so bold as to carry
of my niece in such a manner, and from so august a presence? And with whom, a stranger as he
must have been, would she, wise and cautious as I know her, have consented to depart in such
a manner?--My lord, I cannot believe this."

"One of your priests, my most devoted Christian," replied the Duke, "would only answer, Die,
infidel, in thine unbelief; but I am only a poor worldling sinner, and I will add what mite
of information I can. The young fellow's name, as I am given to understand, is Julian, son
of Sir Geoffrey, whom men call Peveril of the Peak."

"Peveril of the Devil, who hath his cavern there!" said Christian warmly; "for I know that
gallant, and believe him capable of anything bold and desperate. But how could he intrude himself
into the royal presence? Either Hell aids him, or Heaven looks nearer into mortal dealings
than I have yet believed. If so, may God forgive us, who deemed he thought not on us at all!"

"Amen, most Christian Christian," replied the Duke. "I am glad to see thou hast yet some touch
of grace that leads thee to augur so. But Empson, the hen Chiffinch, and half-a-dozen more,
saw the swain's entrance and departure. Please examine these witnesses with your own wisdom,
if you think your time may not be better employed in tracing the fugitives. I believe he gained
entrance as one of some dancing or masking party. Rowley, you know, is accessible to all who
will come forth to make him sport. So in stole this termagant tearing gallant, like Samson
among the Philistines, to pull down our fine scheme about our ears."

"I believe you, my lord," said Christian; "I cannot but believe you; and I forgive you, since
it is your nature, for making sport of what is ruin and destruction. But which way did they take?"

"To Derbyshire, I should presume, to seek her father," said the Duke. "She spoke of going into
paternal protection, instead of yours, Master Christian. Something had chanced at Chiffinch's,
to give her cause to suspect that you had not altogether provided for his daughter in the manner
which her father was likely to approve of."

"Now, Heaven be praised," said Christian, "she knows not her father is come to London! and
they must be gone down either to Martindale Castle, or to Moultrassie Hall; in either case
they are in my power--I must follow them close. I will return instantly to Derbyshire--I am
undone if she meet her father until these errors are amended. Adieu, my lord. I forgive the
part which I fear your Grace must have had in baulking our enterprise--it is no time for mutual
reproaches."

"You speak truth, Master Christian," said the Duke, "and I wish you all success. Can I help
you with men, or horses, or money?"

"I thank your Grace," said Christian, and hastily left the apartment.

The Duke watched his descending footsteps on the staircase, until they could be heard no longer,
and then exclaimed to Jerningham, who entered, "Victoria! victoria! magna est veritas et prævalebit!--Had
I told the villain a word of a lie, he is so familiar with all the regions of falsehood--his
whole life has been such an absolute imposture, that I had stood detected in an instant; but
I told him truth, and that was the only means of deceiving him. Victoria! my dear Jerningham,
I am prouder of cheating Christian, than I should have been of circumventing a minister of state."

"Your Grace holds his wisdom very high," said the attendant.

"His cunning, at least, I do, which, in Court affairs, often takes the weather-gage of wisdom,--as
in Yarmouth Roads a herring-buss will baffle a frigate. He shall not return to London if I
can help it, until all these intrigues are over."

As his Grace spoke, the Colonel, after whom he had repeatedly made inquiry, was announced by
a gentleman of his household. "He met not Christian, did he?" said the Duke hastily.

"No, my lord," returned the domestic, "the Colonel came by the old garden staircase."

"I judged as much," replied the Duke; "'tis an owl that will not take wing in daylight, when
there is a thicket left to skulk under. Here he comes from threading lane, vault, and ruinous
alley, very near ominous a creature as the fowl of ill augury which he resembles."

The Colonel, to whom no other appellation seemed to be given, than that which belonged to his
military station, now entered the apartment. He was tall, strongly built, and past the middle
period of life, and his countenance, but for the heavy cloud which dwelt upon it, might have
been pronounced a handsome one. While the Duke spoke to him, either from humility or some other
cause, his large serious eye was cast down upon the ground; but he raised it when he answered,
with a keen look of earnest observation. His dress was very plain, and more allied to that
of the Puritans than of the Cavaliers of the time; a shadowy black hat, like the Spanish sombrero;
a large black mantle or cloak, and a long rapier, gave him something the air of a Castilione,
to which his gravity and stiffness of demeanour added considerable strength.

"Well, Colonel," said the Duke, "we have been long strangers--how have matters gone with you?"

"As with other men of action in quiet times," answered the colonel, "or as a good war-caper[*]
that lies high and dry in a muddy creek, till seams and planks are rent and riven."

     [*] A privateer.

"Well, Colonel," said the Duke, "I have used your valour before now, and I may again; so that
I shall speedily see that the vessel is careened, and undergoes a thorough repair."

"I conjecture, then," said the Colonel, "that your Grace has some voyage in hand?"

"No, but there is one which I want to interrupt," replied the Duke.

"Tis but another stave of the same tune.--Well, my lord, I listen," answered the stranger.

"Nay," said the Duke, "it is but a trifling matter after all.--You know Ned Christian?"

"Ay, surely, my lord," replied the Colonel, "we have been long known to each other."

"He is about to go down to Derbyshire to seek a certain niece of his, whom he will scarcely
find there. Now, I trust to your tried friendship to interrupt his return to London. Go with
him, or meet him, cajole him, or assail him, or do what thou wilt with him--only keep him from
London for a fortnight at least, and then I care little how soon he comes."

"For by that time, I suppose," replied the Colonel, "any one may find the wench that thinks
her worth the looking for."

"Thou mayst think her worth the looking for thyself, Colonel," rejoined the Duke; "I promise
you she hath many a thousand stitched to her petticoat; such a wife would save thee from skeldering
on the public."

"My lord, I sell my blood and my sword, but not my honour," answered the man sullenly; "if
I marry, my bed may be a poor, but it shall be an honest one."

"Then thy wife will be the only honest matter in thy possession, Colonel--at least since I
have known you," replied the Duke.

"Why, truly, your Grace may speak your pleasure on that point. It is chiefly your business
which I have done of late; and if it were less strictly honest than I could have wished, the
employer was to blame as well as the agent. But for marrying a cast-off mistress, the man (saving
your Grace, to whom I am bound) lives not who dares propose it to me."

The Duke laughed loudly. "Why, this is mine Ancient Pistol's vein," he replied.

  ----"Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
  And by my side wear steel?--then Lucifer take all!"

"My breeding is too plain to understand ends of playhouse verse, my lord," said the Colonel
suddenly. "Has your Grace no other service to command me?"

"None--only I am told you have published a Narrative concerning the Plot."

"What should ail me, my lord?" said the Colonel; "I hope I am a witness as competent as any
that has yet appeared?"

"Truly, I think so to the full," said the Duke; "and it would have been hard, when so much
profitable mischief was going, if so excellent a Protestant as yourself had not come in for
a share."

"I came to take your Grace's commands, not to be the object of your wit," said the Colonel.

"Gallantly spoken, most resolute and most immaculate Colonel! As you are to be on full pay
in my service for a month to come, I pray your acceptance of this purse, for contingents and
equipments, and you shall have my instructions from time to time."

"They shall be punctually obeyed, my lord," said the Colonel; "I know the duty of a subaltern
officer. I wish your Grace a good morning."

So saying, he pocketed the purse, without either affecting hesitation, or expressing gratitude,
but merely as a part of a transaction in the regular way of business, and stalked from the
apartment with the same sullen gravity which marked his entrance. "Now, there goes a scoundrel
after my own heart," said the Duke; "a robber from his cradle, a murderer since he could hold
a knife, a profound hypocrite in religion, and a worse and deeper hypocrite in honour,--would
sell his soul to the devil to accomplish any villainy, and would cut the throat of his brother,
did he dare to give the villainy he had so acted its right name.--Now, why stand you amazed,
good Master Jerningham, and look on me as you would on some monster of Ind, when you had paid
your shilling to see it, and were staring out your pennyworth with your eyes as round as a
pair of spectacles? Wink, man, and save them, and then let thy tongue untie the mystery."

"On my word, my Lord Duke," answered Jerningham, "since I am compelled to speak, I can only
say, that the longer I live with your Grace, I am the more at a loss to fathom your motives
of action. Others lay plans, either to attain profit or pleasure by their execution; but your
Grace's delight is to counteract your own schemes, when in the very act of performance; like
a child--forgive me--that breaks its favourite toy, or a man who should set fire to the house
he has half built."

"And why not, if he wanted to warm his hands at the blaze?" said the Duke.

"Ay, my lord," replied his dependent; "but what if, in doing so, he should burn his fingers?--My
lord, it is one of your noblest qualities, that you will sometimes listen to the truth without
taking offence; but were it otherwise, I could not, at this moment, help speaking out at every
risk."

"Well, say on, I can bear it," said the Duke, throwing himself into an easy-chair, and using
his toothpick with graceful indifference and equanimity; "I love to hear what such potsherds
as thou art, think of the proceeding of us who are of the pure porcelain clay of the earth."

"In the name of Heaven, my lord, let me then ask you," said Jerningham, "what merit you claim,
or what advantage you expect, from having embroiled everything in which you are concerned to
a degree which equals the chaos of the blind old Roundhead's poem which your Grace is so fond
of? To begin with the King. In spite of good-humour, he will be incensed at your repeated rivalry."

"His Majesty defied me to it."

"You have lost all hopes of the Isle, by quarrelling with Christian."

"I have ceased to care a farthing about it," replied the Duke.

"In Christian himself, whom you have insulted, and to whose family you intend dishonour, you
have lost a sagacious, artful, and cool-headed instrument and adherent," said the monitor.

"Poor Jerningham!" answered the Duke; "Christian would say as much for thee, I doubt not, wert
thou discarded tomorrow. It is the common error of such tools as you and he to think themselves
indispensable. As to his family, what was never honourable cannot be dishonoured by any connection
with my house."

"I say nothing of Chiffinch," said Jerningham, "offended as he will be when he learns why,
and by whom, his scheme has been ruined, and the lady spirited away--He and his wife, I say
nothing of them."

"You need not," said the Duke; "for were they even fit persons to speak to me about, the Duchess
of Portsmouth has bargained for their disgrace."

"Then this bloodhound of a Colonel, as he calls himself, your Grace cannot even lay him on
a quest which is to do you service, but you must do him such indignity at the same time, as
he will not fail to remember, and be sure to fly at your throat should he ever have an opportunity
of turning on you."

"I will take care he has none," said the Duke; "and yours, Jerningham, is a low-lived apprehension.
Beat your spaniel heartily if you would have him under command. Ever let your agents see you
know what they are, and prize them accordingly. A rogue, who must needs be treated as a man
of honour, is apt to get above his work. Enough, therefore, of your advice and censure, Jerningham;
we differ in every particular. Were we both engineers, you would spend your life in watching
some old woman's wheel, which spins flax by the ounce; I must be in the midst of the most varied
and counteracting machinery, regulating checks and counter-checks, balancing weights, proving
springs and wheels, directing and controlling a hundred combined powers."

"And your fortune, in the meanwhile?" said Jerningham; "pardon this last hint, my lord."

"My fortune," said the Duke, "is too vast to be hurt by a petty wound; and I have, as thou
knowest, a thousand salves in store for the scratches and scars which it sometimes receives
in greasing my machinery."

"Your Grace does not mean Dr. Wilderhead's powder of projection?"

"Pshaw! he is a quacksalver, and mountebank, and beggar."

"Or Solicitor Drowndland's plan for draining the fens?"

"He is a cheat,--videlicet, an attorney."

"Or the Laird of Lackpelf's sale of Highland woods?"

"He is a Scotsman," said the Duke,--"videlicet, both cheat and beggar."

"These streets here, upon the site of your noble mansion-house?" said Jerningham.

"The architect's a bite, and the plan's a bubble. I am sick of the sight of this rubbish, and
I will soon replace our old alcoves, alleys, and flower-pots by an Italian garden and a new
palace."

"That, my lord, would be to waste, not to improve your fortune," said his domestic.

"Clodpate, and muddy spirit that thou art, thou hast forgot the most hopeful scheme of all--the
South Sea Fisheries--their stock is up 50 per cent. already. Post down to the Alley, and tell
old Mansses to buy £20,000 for me.--Forgive me, Plutus, I forgot to lay my sacrifice on thy
shrine, and yet expected thy favours!--Fly post-haste, Jerningham--for thy life, for thy life,
for thy life!"[*]

[*] Stock-jobbing, as it is called, that is, dealing in shares of
    monopolies, patent, and joint-stock companies of every
    description, was at least as common in Charles II.'s time as our
    own; and as the exercise of ingenuity in this way promised a road
    to wealth without the necessity of industry, it was then much
    pursued by dissolute courtiers.

With hands and eyes uplifted, Jerningham left the apartment; and the Duke, without thinking
a moment farther on old or new intrigues--on the friendship he had formed, or the enmity he
had provoked--on the beauty whom he had carried off from her natural protectors, as well as
from her lover--or on the monarch against whom he had placed himself in rivalship,--sat down
to calculate chances with all the zeal of Demoivre, tired of the drudgery in half-an-hour,
and refused to see the zealous agent whom he had employed in the city, because he was busily
engaged in writing a new lampoon.

CHAPTER XXXIX

                Ah! changeful head, and fickle heart!
                                       --PROGRESS OF DISCONTENT.

No event is more ordinary in narratives of this nature, than the abduction of the female on
whose fate the interest is supposed to turn; but that of Alice Bridgenorth was thus far particular,
that she was spirited away by the Duke of Buckingham, more in contradiction than in the rivalry
of passion; and that, as he made his first addresses to her at Chiffinch's, rather in the spirit
of rivalry to this Sovereign, than from any strong impression which her beauty had made on
his affections, so he had formed the sudden plan of spiriting her away by means of his dependents,
rather to perplex Christian, the King, Chiffinch, and all concerned, than because he had any
particular desire for her society at his own mansion. Indeed, so far was this from being the
case, that his Grace was rather surprised than delighted with the success of the enterprise
which had made her an inmate there, although it is probable he might have thrown himself into
an uncontrollable passion, had he learned its miscarriage instead of its success.

Twenty-four hours had passed over since he had returned to his own roof, before, notwithstanding
sundry hints from Jerningham, he could even determine on the exertion necessary to pay his
fair captive a visit; and then it was with the internal reluctance of one who can only be stirred
from indolence by novelty.

"I wonder what made me plague myself about this wench," said he, "and doom myself to encounter
all the hysterical rhapsodies of a country Phillis, with her head stuffed with her grandmother's
lessons about virtue and the Bible-book, when the finest and best-bred women in town may be
had upon more easy terms. It is a pity one cannot mount the victor's car of triumph without
having a victory to boast of; yet, faith, it is what most of our modern gallants do, though
it would not become Buckingham.--Well, I must see her," he concluded, "though it were but to
rid the house of her. The Portsmouth will not hear of her being set at liberty near Charles,
so much is she afraid of a new fair seducing the old sinner from his allegiance. So how the
girl is to be disposed of--for I shall have little fancy to keep her here, and she is too wealthy
to be sent down to Cliefden as a housekeeper--is a matter to be thought on."

He then called for such a dress as might set off his natural good mien--a compliment which
he considered as due to his own merit; for as to anything farther, he went to pay his respects
to his fair prisoner with almost as little zeal in the cause, as a gallant to fight a duel
in which he has no warmer interest than the maintenance of his reputation as man of honour.

The set of apartments consecrated to the use of those favourites who occasionally made Buckingham's
mansion their place of abode, and who were, so far as liberty was concerned, often required
to observe the regulations of a convent, were separated from the rest of the Duke's extensive
mansion. He lived in the age when what was called gallantry warranted the most atrocious actions
of deceit and violence; as may be best illustrated by the catastrophe of an unfortunate actress,
whose beauty attracted the attention of the last De Vere, Earl of Oxford. While her virtue
defied his seductions, he ruined her under colour of a mock marriage, and was rewarded for
a success which occasioned the death of his victim, by the general applause of the men of wit
and gallantry who filled the drawing-room of Charles.

Buckingham had made provision in the interior of his ducal mansion for exploits of a similar
nature; and the set of apartments which he now visited were alternately used to confine the
reluctant, and to accommodate the willing.

Being now destined for the former purpose, the key was delivered to the Duke by a hooded and
spectacled old lady, who sat reading a devout book in the outer hall which divided these apartments
(usually called the Nunnery) from the rest of the house. This experienced dowager acted as
mistress of the ceremonies on such occasions, and was the trusty depositary of more intrigues
than were known to any dozen of her worshipful calling besides.

"As sweet a linnet," she said, as she undid the outward door, "as ever sung in a cage."

"I was afraid she might have been more for moping than for singing, Dowlas," said the Duke.

"Till yesterday she was so, please your Grace," answered Dowlas; "or, to speak sooth, till
early this morning, we heard of nothing but Lachrymæ. But the air of your noble Grace's house
is favourable to singing-birds; and to-day matters have been a-much mended."

"Tis sudden, dame," said the Duke; "and 'tis something strange, considering that I have never
visited her, that the pretty trembler should have been so soon reconciled to her fate."

"Ah, your Grace has such magic, that it communicates itself to your very walls; as wholesome
Scripture says, Exodus, first and seventh, 'It cleaveth to the walls and the doorposts.'"

"You are too partial, Dame Dowlas," said the Duke of Buckingham.

"Not a word but truth," said the dame; "and I wish I may be an outcast from the fold of the
lambs, but I think this damsel's very frame has changed since she was under your Grace's roof.
Methinks she hath a lighter form, a finer step, a more displayed ankle--I cannot tell, but
I think there is a change. But, lack-a-day, your Grace knows I am as old as I am trusty, and
that my eyes wax something uncertain."

"Especially when you wash them with a cup of canary, Dame Dowlas," answered the Duke, who was
aware that temperance was not amongst the cardinal virtues which were most familiar to the
old lady's practice.

"Was it canary, your Grace said?--Was it indeed with canary, that your Grace should have supposed
me to have washed my eyes?" said the offended matron. "I am sorry that your Grace should know
me no better."

"I crave your pardon, dame," said the Duke, shaking aside, fastidiously, the grasp which, in
the earnestness of her exculpation, Madam Dowlas had clutched upon his sleeve. "I crave your
pardon. Your nearer approach has convinced me of my erroneous imputation--I should have said
nantz--not canary."

So saying, he walked forward into the inner apartments, which were fitted up with an air of
voluptuous magnificence.

"The dame said true, however," said the proud deviser and proprietor of the splendid mansion--"A
country Phillis might well reconcile herself to such a prison as this, even without a skilful
bird-fancier to touch a bird-call. But I wonder where she can be, this rural Phidele. Is it
possible she can have retreated, like a despairing commandant, into her bedchamber, the very
citadel of the place, without even an attempt to defend the outworks?"

As he made this reflection, he passed through an antechamber and little eating parlour, exquisitely
furnished, and hung with excellent paintings of the Venetian school.

Beyond these lay a withdrawing-room, fitted up in a style of still more studied elegance. The
windows were darkened with painted glass, of such a deep and rich colour, as made the midday
beams, which found their way into the apartment, imitate the rich colours of sunset; and, in
the celebrated expression of the poet, "taught light to counterfeit a gloom."

Buckingham's feelings and taste had been too much, and too often, and too readily gratified,
to permit him, in the general case, to be easily accessible, even to those pleasures which
it had been the business of his life to pursue. The hackneyed voluptuary is like the jaded
epicure, the mere listlessness of whose appetite becomes at length a sufficient penalty for
having made it the principal object of his enjoyment and cultivation. Yet novelty has always
some charms, and uncertainty has more.

The doubt how he was to be received--the change of mood which his prisoner was said to have
evinced--the curiosity to know how such a creature as Alice Bridgenorth had been described,
was likely to bear herself under the circumstances in which she was so unexpectedly placed,
had upon Buckingham the effect of exciting unusual interest. On his own part, he had none of
those feelings of anxiety with which a man, even of the most vulgar mind, comes to the presence
of the female whom he wishes to please, far less the more refined sentiments of love, respect,
desire, and awe, with which the more refined lover approaches the beloved object. He had been,
to use an expressive French phrase, too completely blasé even from his earliest youth, to permit
him now to experience the animal eagerness of the one, far less the more sentimental pleasure
of the other. It is no small aggravation of this jaded and uncomfortable state of mind, that
the voluptuary cannot renounce the pursuits with which he is satiated, but must continue, for
his character's sake, or from the mere force of habit, to take all the toil, fatigue, and danger
of the chase, while he has so little real interest in the termination.

Buckingham, therefore, felt it due to his reputation as a successful hero of intrigue, to pay
his addresses to Alice Bridgenorth with dissembled eagerness; and, as he opened the door of
the inner apartment, he paused to consider, whether the tone of gallantry, or that of passion,
was fittest to use on the occasion. This delay enabled him to hear a few notes of a lute touched
with exquisite skill, and accompanied by the still sweeter strains of a female voice, which,
without executing any complete melody, seemed to sport itself in rivalship of the silver sound
of the instrument.

"A creature so well educated," said the Duke, "with the sense she is said to possess, would,
rustic as she is, laugh at the assumed rants of Oroondates. It is the vein of Dorimont--once,
Buckingham, thine own--that must here do the feat, besides that the part is easier."

So thinking, he entered the room with that easy grace which characterised the gay courtiers
among whom he flourished, and approached the fair tenant, whom he found seated near a table
covered with books and music, and having on her left hand the large half-open casement, dim
with stained glass, admitting only a doubtful light into this lordly retiring-room, which,
hung with the richest tapestry of the Gobelines, and ornamented with piles if china and splendid
mirrors, seemed like a bower built for a prince to receive his bride.

The splendid dress of the inmate corresponded with the taste of the apartment which she occupied
and partook of the Oriental costume which the much-admired Roxalana had the brought into fashion.
A slender foot and ankle, which escaped from the wide trowser of richly ornamented and embroidered
blue satin, was the only part of her person distinctly seen; the rest was enveloped, from head
to foot, in a long veil of silver gauze, which, like a feathery and light mist on a beautiful
landscape, suffered you to perceive that what it concealed was rarely lovely, yet induced the
imagination even to enhance the charms it shaded. Such part of the dress as could be discovered
was, like the veil and the trowsers, in the Oriental taste; a rich turban, and splendid caftan,
were rather indicated than distinguished through the folds of the former. The whole attire
argued at least coquetry on the part of the fair one, who must have expected, from her situation,
a visitor of some pretension; and induced Buckingham to smile internally at Christian's account
of the extreme simplicity and purity of his niece.

He approached the lady en cavalier, and addressed her with the air of being conscious, while
he acknowledged his offences, that his condescending to do so formed a sufficient apology for
them. "Fair Mistress Alice," he said, "I am sensible how deeply I ought to sue for pardon for
the mistaken zeal of my servants, who, seeing you deserted and exposed without protection during
an unlucky affray, took it upon them to bring you under the roof of one who would expose his
life rather than suffer you to sustain a moment's anxiety. Was it my fault that those around
me should have judged it necessary to interfere for your preservation; or that, aware of the
interest I must take in you, they have detained you till I could myself, in personal attendance,
receive your commands?"

"That attendance has not been speedily rendered, my lord," answered the lady. "I have been
a prisoner for two days--neglected, and left to the charge of menials."

"How say you, lady?--Neglected!" exclaimed the Duke. "By Heaven, if the best in my household
has failed in his duty, I will discard him on the instant!"

"I complain of no lack of courtesy from your servants, my lord," she replied; "but methinks
it had been but complaisant in the Duke himself to explain to me earlier wherefore he has had
the boldness to detain me as a state prisoner."

"And can the divine Alice doubt," said Buckingham, "that, had time and space, those cruel enemies
to the flight of passion, given permission, the instant in which you crossed your vassal's
threshold had seen its devoted master at your feet, who hath thought, since he saw you, of
nothing but the charms which that fatal morning placed before him at Chiffinch's?"

"I understand, then, my lord," said the lady, "that you have been absent, and have had no part
in the restraint which has been exercised upon me?"

"Absent on the King's command, lady, and employed in the discharge of his duty," answered Buckingham
without hesitation. "What could I do?--The moment you left Chiffinch's, his Majesty commanded
me to the saddle in such haste, that I had no time to change my satin buskins for riding-boots.[*]
If my absence has occasioned you a moment of inconvenience, blame the inconsiderate zeal of
those who, seeing me depart from London, half distracted at my separation from you, were willing
to contribute their unmannered, though well-meant exertions, to preserve their master from
despair, by retaining the fair Alice within his reach. To whom, indeed, could they have restored
you? He whom you selected as your champion is in prison, or fled--your father absent from town--your
uncle in the north. To Chiffinch's house you had expressed your well-founded aversion; and
what fitter asylum remained than that of your devoted slave, where you must ever reign a queen?"

[*] This case is not without precedent. Among the jealousies and fears
    expressed by the Long Parliament, they insisted much upon an agent
    for the King departing for the continent so abruptly, that he had
    not time to change his court dress--white buskins, to wit, and
    black silk pantaloons--for an equipment more suitable to travel
    with.

"An imprisoned one," said the lady. "I desire not royalty."

"Alas! how wilfully you misconstrue me!" said the Duke, kneeling on one knee; "and what right
can you have to complain of a few hours' gentle restraint--you, who destine so many to hopeless
captivity? Be merciful for once, and withdraw that envious veil; for the divinities are ever
most cruel when they deliver their oracles from such clouded recesses. Suffer at least my rash
hand----"

"I will save your Grace that unworthy trouble," said the lady haughtily; and rising up, she
flung back over her shoulders the veil which shrouded her, saying, at the same time, "Look
on me, my Lord Duke, and see if these be indeed the charms which have made on your Grace an
impression so powerful."

Buckingham did look; and the effect produced on him by surprise was so strong, that he rose
hastily from his knee, and remained for a few seconds as if he had been petrified. The figure
that stood before him had neither the height nor the rich shape of Alice Bridgenorth; and,
though perfectly well made, was so slightly formed, as to seem almost infantine. Her dress
was three or four short vests of embroidered satin, disposed one over the other, of different
colours, or rather different shades of similar colours; for strong contrast was carefully avoided.
These opened in front, so as to show part of the throat and neck, partially obscured by an
inner covering of the finest lace; over the uppermost vest was worn a sort of mantle, or coat
of rich fur. A small but magnificent turban was carelessly placed on her head, from under which
flowed a profusion of coal-black tresses, which Cleopatra might have envied. The taste and
splendour of the Eastern dress corresponded with the complexion of the lady's face, which was
brunette, of a shade so dark as might almost have served an Indian.

Amidst a set of features, in which rapid and keen expression made amends for the want of regular
beauty, the essential points of eyes as bright as diamonds, and teeth as white as pearls, did
not escape the Duke of Buckingham, a professed connoisseur in female charms. In a word, the
fanciful and singular female who thus unexpectedly produced herself before him, had one of
those faces which are never seen without making an impression; which, when removed, are long
after remembered; and for which, in our idleness, we are tempted to invent a hundred histories,
that we may please our fancy by supposing the features under the influence of different kinds
of emotion. Every one must have in recollection countenances of this kind, which, from a captivating
and stimulating originality of expression, abide longer in the memory, and are more seductive
to the imagination, than ever regular beauty.

"My Lord Duke," said the lady, "it seems the lifting of my veil has done the work of magic
upon your Grace. Alas, for the captive princess, whose nod was to command a vassal so costly
as your Grace! She runs, methinks, no slight chance of being turned out of doors, like a second
Cinderella, to seek her fortune among lackeys and lightermen."

"I am astonished!" said the Duke. "That villain, Jerningham--I will have the scoundrel's blood!"

"Nay, never abuse Jerningham for the matter," said the Unknown; "but lament your own unhappy
engagements. While you, my Lord Duke, were posting northward, in white satin buskins, to toil
in the King's affairs, the right and lawful princess sat weeping in sables in the uncheered
solitude to which your absence condemned her. Two days she was disconsolate in vain; on the
third came an African enchantress to change the scene for her, and the person for your Grace.
Methinks, my lord, this adventure will tell but ill, when some faithful squire shall recount
or record the gallant adventures of the second Duke of Buckingham."

"Fairly bit and bantered to boot," said the Duke--"the monkey has a turn for satire, too, by
all that is piquante.--Hark ye, fair Princess, how dared you adventure on such a trick as you
have been accomplice to?"

"Dare, my lord," answered the stranger; "put the question to others, not to one who fears nothing."

"By my faith, I believe so; for thy front is bronzed by nature.--Hark ye, once more, mistress--What
is your name and condition?"

"My condition I have told you--I am a Mauritanian sorceress by profession, and my name is Zarah,"
replied the Eastern maiden.

"But methinks that face, shape, and eyes"--said the Duke--"when didst thou pass for a dancing
fairy?--Some such imp thou wert not many days since."

"My sister you may have seen--my twin sister; but not me, my lord," answered Zarah.

"Indeed," said the Duke, "that duplicate of thine, if it was not thy very self, was possessed
with a dumb spirit, as thou with a talking one. I am still in the mind that you are the same;
and that Satan, always so powerful with your sex, had art enough on our former meeting, to
make thee hold thy tongue."

"Believe what you will of it, my lord," replied Zarah, "it cannot change the truth.--And now,
my lord, I bid you farewell. Have you any commands to Mauritania?"

"Tarry a little, my Princess," said the Duke; "and remember, that you have voluntarily entered
yourself as pledge for another; and are justly subjected to any penalty which it is my pleasure
to exact. None must brave Buckingham with impunity."

"I am in no hurry to depart, if your Grace hath any commands for me."

"What! are you neither afraid of my resentment, nor of my love, fair Zarah?" said the Duke.

"Of neither, by this glove," answered the lady. "Your resentment must be a pretty passion indeed,
if it could stoop to such a helpless object as I am; and for your love--good lack! good lack!"

"And why good lack with such a tone of contempt, lady?" said the Duke, piqued in spite of himself.
"Think you Buckingham cannot love, or has never been beloved in return?"

"He may have thought himself beloved," said the maiden; "but by what slight creatures!--things
whose heads could be rendered giddy by a playhouse rant--whose brains were only filled with
red-heeled shoes and satin buskins--and who run altogether mad on the argument of a George
and a star."

"And are there no such frail fair ones in your climate, most scornful Princess?" said the Duke.

"There are," said the lady; "but men rate them as parrots and monkeys--things without either
sense or soul, head or heart. The nearness we bear to the sun has purified, while it strengthens,
our passions. The icicles of your frozen climate shall as soon hammer hot bars into ploughshares,
as shall the foppery and folly of your pretended gallantry make an instant's impression on
a breast like mine."

"You speak like one who knows what passion is," said the Duke. "Sit down, fair lady, and grieve
not that I detain you. Who can consent to part with a tongue of so much melody, or an eye of
such expressive eloquence!--You have known then what it is to love?"

"I know--no matter if by experience, or through the report of others--but I do know, that to
love, as I would love, would be to yield not an iota to avarice, not one inch to vanity, not
to sacrifice the slightest feeling to interest or to ambition; but to give up all to fidelity
of heart and reciprocal affection."

"And how many women, think you, are capable of feeling such disinterested passion?"

"More, by thousands, than there are men who merit it," answered Zarah. "Alas! how often do
you see the female, pale, and wretched, and degraded, still following with patient constancy
the footsteps of some predominating tyrant, and submitting to all his injustice with the endurance
of a faithful and misused spaniel, which prizes a look from his master, though the surliest
groom that ever disgraced humanity, more than all the pleasure which the world besides can
furnish him? Think what such would be to one who merited and repaid her devotion."

"Perhaps the very reverse," said the Duke; "and for your simile, I can see little resemblance.
I cannot charge my spaniel with any perfidy; but for my mistresses--to confess truth, I must
always be in a cursed hurry if I would have the credit of changing them before they leave me."

"And they serve you but rightly, my lord," answered the lady; "for what are you?--Nay, frown
not; for you must hear the truth for once. Nature has done its part, and made a fair outside,
and courtly education hath added its share. You are noble, it is the accident of birth--handsome,
it is the caprice of Nature--generous, because to give is more easy than to refuse--well-apparelled,
it is to the credit of your tailor--well-natured in the main, because you have youth and health--brave,
because to be otherwise were to be degraded--and witty, because you cannot help it."

The Duke darted a glance on one of the large mirrors. "Noble, and handsome, and court-like,
generous, well-attired, good-humoured, brave, and witty!--You allow me more, madam, than I
have the slightest pretension to, and surely enough to make my way, at some point at least,
to female favour."

"I have neither allowed you a heart nor a head," said Zarah calmly.--"Nay, never redden as
if you would fly at me. I say not but nature may have given you both; but folly has confounded
the one, and selfishness perverted the other. The man whom I call deserving the name is one
whose thoughts and exertions are for others, rather than himself,--whose high purpose is adopted
on just principles, and never abandoned while heaven or earth affords means of accomplishing
it. He is one who will neither seek an indirect advantage by a specious road, nor take an evil
path to gain a real good purpose. Such a man were one for whom a woman's heart should beat
constant while he breathes, and break when he dies."

She spoke with so much energy that the water sparkled in her eyes, and her cheek coloured with
the vehemence of her feelings.

"You speak," said the Duke, "as if you had yourself a heart which could pay the full tribute
to the merit which you describe so warmly."

"And have I not?" said she, laying her hand on her bosom. "Here beats one that would bear me
out in what I have said, whether in life or in death."

"Were it in my power," said the Duke, who began to get farther interested in his visitor than
he could at first have thought possible--"Were it in my power to deserve such faithful attachment,
methinks it should be my care to requite it."

"Your wealth, your titles, your reputation as a gallant--all you possess, were too little to
merit such sincere affection."

"Come, fair lady," said the Duke, a good deal piqued, "do not be quite so disdainful. Bethink
you, that if your love be as pure as coined gold, still a poor fellow like myself may offer
you an equivalent in silver--The quantity of my affection must make up for its quality."

"But I am not carrying my affection to market, my lord; and therefore I need none of the base
coin you offer in change for it."

"How do I know that, my fairest?" said the Duke. "This is the realm of Paphos--You have invaded
it, with what purpose you best know; but I think with none consistent with your present assumption
of cruelty. Come, come--eyes that are so intelligent can laugh with delight, as well as gleam
with scorn and anger. You are here a waif on Cupid's manor, and I must seize on you in name
of the deity."

"Do not think of touching me, my lord," said the lady. "Approach me not, if you would hope
to learn the purpose of my being here. Your Grace may suppose yourself a Solomon if you please,
but I am no travelling princess, come from distant climes, either to flatter your pride, or
wonder at your glory."

"A defiance, by Jupiter!" said the Duke.

"You mistake the signal," said the 'dark ladye'; "I came not here without taking sufficient
precautions for my retreat."

"You mouth it bravely," said the Duke; "but never fortress so boasted its resources but the
garrison had some thoughts of surrender. Thus I open the first parallel."

They had been hitherto divided from each other by a long narrow table, which, placed in the
recess of the large casement we have mentioned, had formed a sort of barrier on the lady's
side, against the adventurous gallant. The Duke went hastily to remove it as he spoke; but,
attentive to all his motions, his visitor instantly darted through the half-open window. Buckingham
uttered a cry of horror and surprise, having no doubt, at first, that she had precipitated
herself from a height of at least fourteen feet; for so far the window was distant from the
ground. But when he sprung to the spot, he perceived, to his astonishment, that she had effected
her descent with equal agility and safety.

The outside of this stately mansion was decorated with a quantity of carving, in the mixed
state, betwixt the Gothic and Grecian styles, which marks the age of Elizabeth and her successor;
and though the feat seemed a surprising one, the projections of these ornaments were sufficient
to afford footing to a creature so light and active, even in her hasty descent.

Inflamed alike by mortification and curiosity, Buckingham at first entertained some thought
of following her by the same dangerous route, and had actually got upon the sill of the window
for that purpose; and was contemplating what might be his next safe movement, when, from a
neighbouring thicket of shrubs, amongst which his visitor had disappeared, he heard her chant
a verse of a comic song, then much in fashion, concerning a despairing lover who had recourse
to a precipice--

 "But when he came near,
    Beholding how steep
  The sides did appear,
    And the bottom how deep;
  Though his suit was rejected,
    He sadly reflected,
  That a lover forsaken
    A new love may get;
  But a neck that's once broken
    Can never be set."

The Duke could not help laughing, though much against his will, at the resemblance which the
verses bore to his own absurd situation, and, stepping back into the apartment, desisted from
an attempt which might have proved dangerous as well as ridiculous. He called his attendants,
and contented himself with watching the little thicket, unwilling to think that a female, who
had thrown herself in a great measure into his way, meant absolutely to mortify him by a retreat.

That question was determined in an instant. A form, wrapped in a mantle, with a slouched hat
and shadowy plume, issued from the bushes, and was lost in a moment amongst the ruins of ancient
and of modern buildings, with which, as we have already stated, the demesne formerly termed
York House, was now encumbered in all directions.

The Duke's servants, who had obeyed his impatient summons, were hastily directed to search
for this tantalising siren in every direction. Their master, in the meantime, eager and vehement
in every new pursuit, but especially when his vanity was piqued, encouraged their diligence
by bribes, and threats, and commands. All was in vain. They found nothing of the Mauritanian
Princess, as she called herself, but the turban and the veil; both of which she had left in
the thicket, together with her satin slippers; which articles, doubtless, she had thrown aside
as she exchanged them for others less remarkable.

Finding all his search in vain, the Duke of Buckingham, after the example of spoiled children
of all ages and stations, gave a loose to the frantic vehemence of passion; and fiercely he
swore vengeance on his late visitor, whom he termed by a thousand opprobrious epithets, of
which the elegant phrase "Jilt" was most frequently repeated.

Even Jerningham, who knew the depths and the shallows of his master's mood, and was bold to
fathom them at almost every state of his passions, kept out of his way on the present occasion;
and, cabineted with the pious old housekeeper, declared to her, over a bottle of ratafia, that,
in his apprehension, if his Grace did not learn to put some control on his temper, chains,
darkness, straw, and Bedlam, would be the final doom of the gifted and admired Duke of Buckingham.

CHAPTER XL

            ----Contentious fierce,
            Ardent, and dire, spring from no petty cause.
                                                    --ALBION.

The quarrels between man and wife are proverbial; but let not these honest folks think that
connections of a less permanent nature are free from similar jars. The frolic of the Duke of
Buckingham, and the subsequent escape of Alice Bridgenorth, had kindled fierce dissension in
Chiffinch's family, when, on his arrival in town, he learned these two stunning events: "I
tell you," he said to his obliging helpmate, who seemed but little moved by all that he could
say on the subject, "that your d--d carelessness has ruined the work of years."

"I think it is the twentieth time you have said so," replied the dame; "and without such frequent
assurance, I was quite ready to believe that a very trifling matter would overset any scheme
of yours, however long thought of."

"How on earth could you have the folly to let the Duke into the house when you expected the
King?" said the irritated courtier.

"Lord, Chiffinch," answered the lady, "ought not you to ask the porter rather than me, that
sort of question?--I was putting on my cap to receive his Majesty."

"With the address of a madge-howlet," said Chiffinch, "and in the meanwhile you gave the cat
the cream to keep."

"Indeed, Chiffinch," said the lady, "these jaunts to the country do render you excessively
vulgar! there is a brutality about your very boots! nay, your muslin ruffles, being somewhat
soiled, give to your knuckles a sort of rural rusticity, as I may call it."

"It were a good deed," muttered Chiffinch, "to make both boots and knuckles bang the folly
and affectation out of thee." Then speaking aloud, he added, like a man who would fain break
off an argument, by extorting from his adversary a confession that he has reason on his side,
"I am sure, Kate, you must be sensible that our all depends on his Majesty's pleasure."

"Leave that to me," said she; "I know how to pleasure his Majesty better than you can teach
me. Do you think his Majesty is booby enough to cry like a schoolboy because his sparrow has
flown away? His Majesty has better taste. I am surprised at you, Chiffinch," she added, drawing
herself up, "who were once thought to know the points of a fine woman, that you should have
made such a roaring about this country wench. Why, she has not even the country quality of
being plump as a barn-door fowl, but is more like a Dunstable lark, that one must crack bones
and all if you would make a mouthful of it. What signifies whence she came, or where she goes?
There will be those behind that are much more worthy of his Majesty's condescending attention,
even when the Duchess of Portsmouth takes the frumps."

"You mean your neighbour, Mistress Nelly," said her worthy helpmate; "but Kate, her date is
out. Wit she has, let her keep herself warm with it in worse company, for the cant of a gang
of strollers is not language for a prince's chamber."[*]

[*] In Evelyn's Memoirs is the following curious passage respecting
    Nell Gwyn, who is hinted at in the text:--"I walked with him [King
    Charles II.] through Saint James Park to the garden, where I both
    saw and heard a very familiar discourse between... [the King]
    and Mrs. Nelly, as they called her, an intimate comedian, she
    looking out of her garden on a terrace at the top of the wall, and
    [the King] standing on the green walk under it. I was heartily
    sorry at this scene."--EVELYN'S Memoirs, vol. i. p.413.

"It is no matter what I mean, or whom I mean," said Mrs. Chiffinch; "but I tell you, Tom Chiffinch,
that you will find your master quite consoled for loss of the piece of prudish puritanism that
you would need saddle him with; as if the good man were not plagued enough with them in Parliament,
but you must, forsooth, bring them into his very bedchamber."

"Well, Kate," said Chiffinch, "if a man were to speak all the sense of the seven wise masters,
a woman would find nonsense enough to overwhelm him with; so I shall say no more, but that
I would to Heaven I may find the King in no worse humour than you describe him. I am commanded
to attend him down the river to the Tower to-day, where he is to make some survey of arms and
stores. They are clever fellows who contrive to keep Rowley from engaging in business, for,
by my word, he has a turn for it."

"I warrant you," said Chiffinch the female, nodding, but rather to her own figure, reflected
from a mirror, than to her politic husband,--"I warrant you we will find means of occupying
him that will sufficiently fill up his time."

"On my honour, Kate," said the male Chiffinch, "I find you strangely altered, and, to speak
truth, grown most extremely opinionative. I shall be happy if you have good reason for your
confidence."

The dame smiled superciliously, but deigned no other answer, unless this were one,--"I shall
order a boat to go upon the Thames to-day with the royal party."

"Take care what you do, Kate; there are none dare presume so far but women of the first rank.
Duchess of Bolton--of Buckingham--of----"

"Who cares for a list of names? why may not I be as forward as the greatest B. amongst your
string of them?"

"Nay, faith, thou mayest match the greatest B. in Court already," answered Chiffinch; "so e'en
take thy own course of it. But do not let Chaubert forget to get some collation ready, and
a souper au petit couvert, in case it should be commanded for the evening."

"Ay, there your boasted knowledge of Court matters begins and ends.--Chiffinch, Chaubert, and
Company;--dissolve that partnership, and you break Tom Chiffinch for a courtier."

"Amen, Kate," replied Chiffinch; "and let me tell you it is as safe to rely on another person's
fingers as on our own wit. But I must give orders for the water.--If you will take the pinnace,
there are the cloth-of-gold cushions in the chapel may serve to cover the benches for the day.
They are never wanted where they lie, so you may make free with them too."

Madam Chiffinch accordingly mingled with the flotilla which attended the King on his voyage
down the Thames, amongst whom was the Queen, attended by some of the principal ladies of the
Court. The little plump Cleopatra, dressed to as much advantage as her taste could devise,
and seated upon her embroidered cushions like Venus in her shell, neglected nothing that effrontery
and minauderie could perform to draw upon herself some portion of the King's observation; but
Charles was not in the vein, and did not even pay her the slightest passing attention of any
kind, until her boatmen having ventured to approach nearer to the Queen's barge than etiquette
permitted, received a peremptory order to back their oars, and fall out of the royal procession.
Madam Chiffinch cried for spite, and transgressed Solomon's warning, by cursing the King in
her heart; but had no better course than to return to Westminster, and direct Chaubert's preparations
for the evening.

In the meantime the royal barge paused at the Tower; and, accompanied by a laughing train of
ladies and of courtiers, the gay Monarch made the echoes of the old prison-towers ring with
the unwonted sounds of mirth and revelry. As they ascended from the river-side to the centre
of the building, where the fine old keep of William the Conqueror, called the White Tower,
predominates over the exterior defences, Heaven only knows how many gallant jests, good or
bad, were run on the comparison of his Majesty's state-prison to that of Cupid, and what killing
similes were drawn between the ladies' eyes and the guns of the fortress, which, spoken with
a fashionable congée, and listened to with a smile from a fair lady, formed the fine conversations
of the day.

This gay swarm of flutterers did not, however, attend close on the King's person, though they
had accompanied him upon his party on the river. Charles, who often formed manly and sensible
resolutions, though he was too easily diverted from them by indolence or pleasure, had some
desire to make himself personally acquainted with the state of the military stores, arms, &c.
of which the Tower was then, as now, the magazine; and, although he had brought with him the
usual number of his courtiers, only three or four attended him on the scrutiny which he intended.
Whilst, therefore, the rest of the train amused themselves as they might in other parts of
the Tower, the King, accompanied by the Dukes of Buckingham, Ormond, and one or two others,
walked through the well-known hall, in which is preserved the most splendid magazine of arms
in the world, and which, though far from exhibiting its present extraordinary state of perfection,
was even then an arsenal worthy of the great nation to which it belonged.

The Duke of Ormond, well known for his services during the Great Civil War, was, as we have
elsewhere noticed, at present rather on cold terms with his Sovereign, who nevertheless asked
his advice on many occasions, and who required it on the present amongst others, when it was
not a little feared that the Parliament, in their zeal for the Protestant religion, might desire
to take the magazines of arms and ammunition under their own exclusive orders. While Charles
sadly hinted at such a termination of the popular jealousies of the period, and discussed with
Ormond the means of resisting, or evading it, Buckingham, falling a little behind, amused himself
with ridiculing the antiquated appearance and embarrassed demeanour of the old warder who attended
on the occasion, and who chanced to be the very same who escorted Julian Peveril to his present
place of confinement. The Duke prosecuted his raillery with the greater activity, that he found
the old man, though restrained by the place and presence, was rather upon the whole testy,
and disposed to afford what sportsmen call play to his persecutor. The various pieces of ancient
armour, with which the wall was covered, afforded the principal source of the Duke's wit, as
he insisted upon knowing from the old man, who, he said, could best remember matters from the
days of King Arthur downwards at the least, the history of the different warlike weapons, and
anecdotes of the battles in which they had been wielded. The old man obviously suffered, when
he was obliged, by repeated questions, to tell the legends (often sufficiently absurd) which
the tradition of the place had assigned to particular relics. Far from flourishing his partisan,
and augmenting the emphasis of his voice, as was and is the prevailing fashion of these warlike
Ciceroni, it was scarcely possible to extort from him a single word concerning those topics
on which their information is usually overflowing.

"Do you know, my friend," said the Duke to him at last, "I begin to change my mind respecting
you. I supposed you must have served as a Yeoman of the Guard since bluff King Henry's time,
and expected to hear something from you about the Field of the Cloth of Gold,--and I thought
of asking you the colour of Anne Bullen's breastknot, which cost the Pope three kingdoms; but
I am afraid you are but a novice in such recollections of love and chivalry. Art sure thou
didst not creep into thy warlike office from some dark shop in Tower-Hamlets, and that thou
hast not converted an unlawful measuring-yard into that glorious halberd?--I warrant thou canst
not even tell you whom this piece of antique panoply pertained to?"

The Duke pointed at random to a cuirass which hung amongst others, but was rather remarkable
from being better cleansed.

"I should know that piece of iron," said the warder bluntly, yet with some change in his voice;
"for I have known a man within side of it who would not have endured half the impertinence
I have heard spoken to-day."

The tone of the old man, as well as the words, attracted the attention of Charles and the Duke
of Ormond, who were only two steps before the speaker. They both stopped, and turned round;
the former saying at the same time,--"how now, sirrah!--what answers are these?--What man do
you speak of?"

"Of one who is none now," said the warder, "whatever he may have been."

"The old man surely speaks of himself," said the Duke of Ormond, closely examining the countenance
of the warder, which he in vain endeavoured to turn away. "I am sure I remember these features--Are
not you my old friend, Major Coleby?"

"I wish your Grace's memory had been less accurate," said the old man, colouring deeply, and
fixing his eyes on the ground.

The King was greatly shocked.--"Good God!" he said, "the gallant Major Coleby, who joined us
with his four sons and a hundred and fifty men at Warrington!--And is this all we could do
for an old Worcester friend?"

The tears rushed thick into the old man's eyes as he said in broken accents, "Never mind me,
sire; I am well enough here--a worn-out soldier rusting among old armour. Where one old Cavalier
is better, there are twenty worse.--I am sorry your Majesty should know anything of it, since
it grieves you."

With that kindness, which was a redeeming point of his character, Charles, while the old man
was speaking, took the partisan from him with his own hand, and put it into that of Buckingham,
saying, "What Coleby's hand has borne, can disgrace neither yours nor mine,--and you owe him
this atonement. Time has been with him, that, for less provocation, he would have laid it about
your ears."

The Duke bowed deeply, but coloured with resentment, and took an immediate opportunity to place
the weapon carelessly against a pile of arms. The King did not observe a contemptuous motion,
which, perhaps, would not have pleased him, being at the moment occupied with the veteran,
whom he exhorted to lean upon him, as he conveyed him to a seat, permitting no other person
to assist him. "Rest there," he said, "my brave old friend; and Charles Stewart must be poor
indeed, if you wear that dress an hour longer.--You look very pale, my good Coleby, to have
had so much colour a few minutes since. Be not vexed at what Buckingham says; no one minds
his folly.--You look worse and worse. Come, come, you are too much hurried by this meeting.
Sit still--do not rise--do not attempt to kneel. I command you to repose yourself till I have
made the round of these apartments."

The old Cavalier stooped his head in token of acquiescence in the command of his Sovereign,
but he raised it not again. The tumultuous agitation of the moment had been too much for spirits
which had been long in a state of depression, and health which was much decayed. When the King
and his attendants, after half-an-hour's absence, returned to the spot where they had left
the veteran, they found him dead, and already cold, in the attitude of one who has fallen easily
asleep. The King was dreadfully shocked; and it was with a low and faltering voice that he
directed the body, in due time, to be honourably buried in the chapel of the Tower.[*] He was
then silent, until he attained the steps in front of the arsenal, where the party in attendance
upon his person began to assemble at his approach, along with some other persons of respectable
appearance, whom curiosity had attracted.

[*] A story of this nature is current in the legends of the Tower. The
    affecting circumstances are, I believe, recorded in one of the
    little manuals which are put into the hands of visitors, but are
    not to be found in the later editions.

"This is dreadful," said the King. "We must find some means of relieving the distresses, and
rewarding the fidelity of our suffering followers, or posterity will cry fie upon our memory."

"Your Majesty has had often such plans agitated in your Council," said Buckingham.

"True, George," said the King. "I can safely say it is not my fault. I have thought of it for
years."

"It cannot be too well considered," said Buckingham; "besides, every year makes the task of
relief easier."

"True," said the Duke of Ormond, "by diminishing the number of sufferers. Here is poor old
Coleby will no longer be a burden to the Crown."

"You are too severe, my Lord of Ormond," said the King, "and should respect the feelings you
trespass on. You cannot suppose that we would have permitted this poor man to hold such a situation,
had we known of the circumstances?"

"For God's sake, then, sire," said the Duke of Ormond, "turn your eyes, which have just rested
on the corpse of one old friend, upon the distresses of others. Here is the valiant old Sir
Geoffrey Peveril of the Peak, who fought through the whole war, wherever blows were going,
and was the last man, I believe, in England, who laid down his arms--Here is his son, of whom
I have the highest accounts, as a gallant of spirit, accomplishments, and courage--Here is
the unfortunate House of Derby--for pity's sake, interfere in behalf of these victims, whom
the folds of this hydra-plot have entangled, in order to crush them to death--rebuke the fiends
that are seeking to devour their lives, and disappoint the harpies that are gaping for their
property. This very day seven-night the unfortunate family, father and son, are to be brought
upon trial for crimes of which they are as guiltless, I boldly pronounce, as any who stand
in this presence. For God's sake, sire, let us hope that, should the prejudices of the people
condemn them, as it has done others, you will at last step in between the blood-hunters and
their prey."

The King looked, as he really was, exceedingly perplexed.

Buckingham, between whom and Ormond there existed a constant and almost mortal quarrel, interfered
to effect a diversion in Charles's favour. "Your Majesty's royal benevolence," he said, "needs
never want exercise, while the Duke of Ormond is near your person. He has his sleeve cut in
the old and ample fashion, that he may always have store of ruined cavaliers stowed in it to
produce at demand, rare old raw-boned boys, with Malmsey noses, bald heads, spindle shanks,
and merciless histories of Edgehill and Naseby."

"My sleeve is, I dare say, of an antique cut," said Ormond, looking full at the Duke; "but
I pin neither bravoes nor ruffians upon it, my Lord of Buckingham, as I see fastened to coats
of the new mode."

"That is a little too sharp for our presence, my lord," said the King.

"Not if I make my words good," said Ormond.--"My Lord of Buckingham, will you name the man
you spoke to as you left the boat?"

"I spoke to no one," said the Duke hastily--"nay, I mistake, I remember a fellow whispered
in my ear, that one, who I thought had left London was still lingering in town. A person whom
I had business with."

"Was yon the messenger?" said Ormond, singling out from the crowd who stood in the court-yard
a tall dark-looking man, muffled in a large cloak, wearing a broad shadowy black beaver hat,
with a long sword of the Spanish fashion--the very Colonel, in short, whom Buckingham had despatched
in quest of Christian, with the intention of detaining him in the country.

When Buckingham's eyes had followed the direction of Ormond's finger, he could not help blushing
so deeply as to attract the King's attention.

"What new frolic is this, George?" he said. "Gentlemen, bring that fellow forward. On my life,
a truculent-looking caitiff--Hark ye, friend, who are you? If an honest man, Nature has forgot
to label it upon your countenance.--Does none here know him?

 'With every symptom of a knave complete,
  If he be honest, he's a devilish cheat.'"

"He is well known to many, sire," replied Ormond; "and that he walks in this area with his
neck safe, and his limbs unshackled, is an instance, amongst many, that we live under the sway
of the most merciful Prince of Europe."

"Oddsfish! who is the man, my Lord Duke?" said the King. "Your Grace talks mysteries--Buckingham
blushes--and the rogue himself is dumb."

"That honest gentleman, please your Majesty," replied the Duke of Ormond, "whose modesty makes
him mute, though it cannot make him blush, is the notorious Colonel Blood, as he calls himself,
whose attempt to possess himself of your Majesty's royal crown took place at no very distant
date, in this very Tower of London."

"That exploit is not easily forgotten," said the King; "but that the fellow lives, shows your
Grace's clemency as well as mine."

"I cannot deny that I was in his hands, sire," said Ormond, "and had certainly been murdered
by him, had he chosen to take my life on the spot, instead of destining me--I thank him for
the honour--to be hanged at Tyburn. I had certainly been sped, if he had thought me worth knife
or pistol, or anything short of the cord.--Look at him sire! If the rascal dared, he would
say at this moment, like Caliban in the play, 'Ho, ho, I would I had done it!'"

"Why, oddsfish!" answered the King, "he hath a villainous sneer, my lord, which seems to say
as much; but, my Lord Duke, we have pardoned him, and so has your Grace."

"It would ill have become me," said the Duke of Ormond, "to have been severe in prosecuting
an attempt on my poor life, when your Majesty was pleased to remit his more outrageous and
insolent attempt upon your royal crown. But I must conceive it as a piece of supreme insolence
on the part of this bloodthirsty bully, by whomsoever he may be now backed, to appear in the
Tower, which was the theatre of one of his villainies, or before me, who was well-nigh the
victim of another."

"It shall be amended in future," said the King.--"Hark ye, sirrah Blood, if you again presume
to thrust yourself in the way you have done but now, I will have the hangman's knife and your
knavish ears made acquainted."

Blood bowed, and with a coolness of impudence which did his nerves great honour, he said he
had only come to the Tower accidentally, to communicate with a particular friend on business
of importance. "My Lord Duke of Buckingham," he said, "knew he had no other intentions."

"Get you gone, you scoundrelly cut-throat," said the Duke, as much impatient of Colonel Blood's
claim of acquaintance, as a town-rake of the low and blackguard companions of his midnight
rambles, when they accost him in daylight amidst better company; "if you dare to quote my name
again, I will have you thrown into the Thames."

Blood, thus repulsed, turned round with the most insolent composure, and walked away down from
the parade, all men looking at him, as at some strange and monstrous prodigy, so much was he
renowned for daring and desperate villainy. Some even followed him, to have a better survey
of the notorious Colonel Blood, like the smaller tribe of birds which keep fluttering round
an owl when he appears in the light of the sun. But as, in the latter case, these thoughtless
flutterers are careful to keep out of reach of the beak and claws of the bird of Minerva, so
none of those who followed and gazed on Blood as something ominous, cared to bandy looks with
him, or to endure and return the lowering and deadly glances, which he shot from time to time
on those who pressed nearest to him. He stalked on in this manner, like a daunted, yet sullen
wolf, afraid to stop, yet unwilling to fly, until he reached the Traitor's Gate, and getting
on board a sculler which waited for him, he disappeared from their eyes.

Charles would fain have obliterated all recollection of his appearance, by the observation,
"It were a shame that such a reprobate scoundrel should be the subject of discord between two
noblemen of distinction;" and he recommended to the Dukes of Buckingham and Ormond to join
hands, and forget a misunderstanding which rose on so unworthy a subject.

Buckingham answered carelessly, "That the Duke of Ormond's honoured white hairs were a sufficient
apology for his making the first overtures to a reconciliation," and he held out his hand accordingly.
But Ormond only bowed in return, and said, "The King had no cause to expect that the Court
would be disturbed by his personal resentments, since time would not yield him back twenty
years, nor the grave restore his gallant son Ossory. As to the ruffian who had intruded himself
there, he was obliged to him, since, by showing that his Majesty's clemency extended even to
the very worst of criminals, he strengthened his hopes of obtaining the King's favour for such
of his innocent friends as were now in prison, and in danger, from the odious charges brought
against them on the score of the Popish Plot."

The King made no other answer to this insinuation, than by directing that the company should
embark for their return to Whitehall; and thus took leave of the officers of the Tower who
were in attendance, with one of those well-turned compliments to their discharge of duty, which
no man knew better how to express; and issued at the same time strict and anxious orders for
protection and defence of the important fortress confided to them, and all which it contained.

Before he parted with Ormond on their arrival at Whitehall, he turned round to him, as one
who has made up his resolution, and said, "Be satisfied, my Lord Duke--our friends' case shall
be looked to."

In the same evening the Attorney-General, and North, Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas,
had orders with all secrecy, to meet his Majesty that evening on especial matters of state,
at the apartments of Chiffinch, the centre of all affairs, whether of gallantry or business.

CHAPTER XLI

            Yet, Corah, thou shalt from oblivion pass;
            Erect thyself, thou monumental brass,
            High as the serpent of thy metal made,
            While nations stand secure beneath thy shade.
                                       --ABSALOM AND ACHITOPHEL.

The morning which Charles had spent in visiting the Tower, had been very differently employed
by those unhappy individuals, whom their bad fate, and the singular temper of the times, had
made the innocent tenants of that state prison, and who had received official notice that they
were to stand their trial in the Court of Queen's Bench at Westminster, on the seventh succeeding
day. The stout old Cavalier at first only railed at the officer for spoiling his breakfast
with the news, but evinced great feeling when he was told that Julian was to be put under the
same indictment.

We intend to dwell only very generally on the nature of their trial, which corresponded, in
the outline, with almost all those which took place during the prevalence of the Popish Plot.
That is, one or two infamous and perjured evidences, whose profession of common informers had
become frightfully lucrative, made oath to the prisoners having expressed themselves interested
in the great confederacy of the Catholics. A number of others brought forward facts or suspicions,
affecting the character of the parties as honest Protestants and good subjects; and betwixt
the direct and presumptive evidence, enough was usually extracted for justifying, to a corrupted
court and perjured jury, the fatal verdict of Guilty.

The fury of the people had, however, now begun to pass away, exhausted even by its own violence.
The English nation differ from all others, indeed even from those of the sister kingdoms, in
being very easily sated with punishment, even when they suppose it most merited. Other nations
are like the tamed tiger, which, when once its native appetite for slaughter is indulged in
one instance, rushes on in promiscuous ravages. But the English public have always rather resembled
what is told of the sleuth-dog, which, eager, fierce, and clamorous in pursuit of his prey,
desists from it so soon as blood is sprinkled upon his path.

Men's minds were now beginning to cool--the character of the witnesses was more closely sifted--their
testimonies did not in all cases tally--and a wholesome suspicion began to be entertained of
men, who would never say they had made a full discovery of all they knew, but avowedly reserved
some points of evidence to bear on future trials.

The King also, who had lain passive during the first burst of popular fury, was now beginning
to bestir himself, which produced a marked effect on the conduct of the Crown Counsel, and
even the Judges. Sir George Wakeman had been acquitted in spite of Oates's direct testimony;
and public attention was strongly excited concerning the event of the next trial; which chanced
to be that of the Peverils, father and son, with whom, I know not from what concatenation,
little Hudson the dwarf was placed at the bar of the Court of King's Bench.

It was a piteous sight to behold a father and son, who had been so long separated, meet under
circumstances so melancholy; and many tears were shed, when the majestic old man--for such
he was, though now broken with years--folded his son to his bosom, with a mixture of joy, affection,
and a bitter anticipation of the event of the impending trial. There was a feeling in the Court
that for a moment overcame every prejudice and party feeling. Many spectators shed tears; and
there was even a low moaning, as of those who weep aloud.

Such as felt themselves sufficiently at ease to remark the conduct of poor little Geoffrey
Hudson, who was scarcely observed amid the preponderating interest created by his companions
in misfortune, could not but notice a strong degree of mortification on the part of that diminutive
gentleman. He had soothed his great mind by the thoughts of playing the character which he
was called on to sustain, in a manner which should be long remembered in that place; and on
his entrance, had saluted the numerous spectators, as well as the Court, with a cavalier air,
which he meant should express grace, high-breeding, perfect coolness, with a noble disregard
to the issue of their proceedings. But his little person was so obscured and jostled aside,
on the meeting of the father and son, who had been brought in different boats from the Tower,
and placed at the bar at the same moment, that his distress and his dignity were alike thrown
into the background, and attracted neither sympathy nor admiration.

The dwarf's wisest way to attract attention would have been to remain quiet, when so remarkable
an exterior would certainly have received in its turn the share of public notice which he so
eagerly coveted. But when did personal vanity listen to the suggestions of prudence?--Our impatient
friend scrambled, with some difficulty, on the top of the bench intended for his seat; and
there, "paining himself to stand a-tiptoe," like Chaucer's gallant Sir Chaunticlere, he challenged
the notice of the audience as he stood bowing and claiming acquaintance of his namesake Sir
Geoffrey the larger, with whose shoulders, notwithstanding his elevated situation, he was scarcely
yet upon a level.

The taller Knight, whose mind was occupied in a very different manner, took no notice of these
advances upon the dwarf's part, but sat down with the determination rather to die on the spot
than evince any symptoms of weakness before Roundheads and Presbyterians; under which obnoxious
epithets, being too old-fashioned to find out party designations of newer date, he comprehended
all persons concerned in his present trouble.

By Sir Geoffrey the larger's change of position, his face was thus brought on a level with
that of Sir Geoffrey the less, who had an opportunity of pulling him by the cloak. He of Martindale
Castle, rather mechanically than consciously, turned his head towards the large wrinkled visage,
which, struggling between an assumed air of easy importance, and an anxious desire to be noticed,
was grimacing within a yard of him. But neither the singular physiognomy, the nods and smiles
of greeting and recognition into which it was wreathed, nor the strange little form by which
it was supported, had at that moment the power of exciting any recollections in the old Knight's
mind; and having stared for a moment at the poor little man, his bulky namesake turned away
his head without farther notice.

Julian Peveril, the dwarf's more recent acquaintance, had, even amid his own anxious feelings,
room for sympathy with those of his little fellow-sufferer. As soon as he discovered that he
was at the same terrible bar with himself, although he could not conceive how their causes
came to be conjoined, he acknowledged him by a hearty shake of the hand, which the old man
returned with affected dignity and real gratitude. "Worthy youth," he said, "thy presence is
restorative, like the nepenthe of Homer even in this syncopé of our mutual fate. I am concerned
to see that your father hath not the same alacrity of soul as that of ours, which are lodged
within smaller compass; and that he hath forgotten an ancient comrade and fellow-soldier, who
now stands beside him to perform, perhaps, their last campaign."

Julian briefly replied, that his father had much to occupy him. But the little man--who, to
do him justice, cared no more (in his own phrase) for imminent danger or death, than he did
for the puncture of a flea's proboscis--did not so easily renounce the secret object of his
ambition, which was to acquire the notice of the large and lofty Sir Geoffrey Peveril, who,
being at least three inches taller than his son, was in so far possessed of that superior excellence,
which the poor dwarf, in his secret soul, valued before all other distinctions, although in
his conversation, he was constantly depreciating it. "Good comrade and namesake," he proceeded,
stretching out his hand, so as to again to reach the elder Peveril's cloak, "I forgive your
want of reminiscence, seeing it is long since I saw you at Naseby, fighting as if you had as
many arms as the fabled Briareus."

The Knight of Martindale, who had again turned his head towards the little man, and had listened,
as if endeavouring to make something out of his discourse, here interrupted him with a peevish,
"Pshaw!"

"Pshaw!" repeated Sir Geoffrey the less; "Pshaw is an expression of slight esteem,--nay, of
contempt,--in all languages; and were this a befitting place----"

But the Judges had now taken their places, the criers called silence, and the stern voice of
the Lord Chief Justice (the notorious Scroggs) demanded what the officers meant by permitting
the accused to communicate together in open court.

It may here be observed, that this celebrated personage was, upon the present occasion, at
a great loss how to proceed. A calm, dignified, judicial demeanour, was at no time the characteristic
of his official conduct. He always ranted and roared either on the one side or the other; and
of late, he had been much unsettled which side to take, being totally incapable of anything
resembling impartiality. At the first trials for the Plot, when the whole stream of popularity
ran against the accused, no one had been so loud as Scroggs; to attempt to the character of
Oates or Bedloe, or any other leading witnesses, he treated as a crime more heinous than it
would have been to blaspheme the Gospel on which they had been sworn--it was a stifling of
the Plot, or discrediting of the King's witnesses--a crime not greatly, if at all, short of
high treason against the King himself.

But, of late, a new light had begun to glimmer upon the understanding of this interpreter of
the laws. Sagacious in the signs of the times, he began to see that the tide was turning; and
that Court favour at least, and probably popular opinion also, were likely, in a short time,
to declare against the witnesses, and in favour of the accused.

The opinion which Scroggs had hitherto entertained of the high respect in which Shaftesbury,
the patron of the Plot, was held by Charles, had been definitely shaken by a whisper from his
brother North to the following effect: "His Lordship has no more interest at Court than your
footman."

This notice, from a sure hand, and received but that morning, had put the Judge to a sore dilemma;
for, however indifferent to actual consistency, he was most anxious to save appearances. He
could not but recollect how violent he had been on former occasions in favour of these prosecutions;
and being sensible at the same time that the credit of the witnesses, though shaken in the
opinion of the more judicious, was, amongst the bulk of the people out of doors, as strong
as ever, he had a difficult part to play. His conduct, therefore, during the whole trial, resembled
the appearance of a vessel about to go upon another tack, when her sails are shivering in the
wind, ere they have yet caught the impulse which is to send her forth in a new direction. In
a word, he was so uncertain which side it was his interest to favour, that he might be said
on that occasion to have come nearer a state of total impartiality than he was ever capable
of attaining, whether before or afterwards. This was shown by his bullying now the accused,
and now the witnesses, like a mastiff too much irritated to lie still without baying, but uncertain
whom he shall first bite.

The indictment was then read; and Sir Geoffrey Peveril heard, with some composure, the first
part of it, which stated him to have placed his son in the household of the Countess of Derby,
a recusant Papist, for the purpose of aiding the horrible and bloodthirsty Popish Plot--with
having had arms and ammunition concealed in his house--and with receiving a blank commission
from the Lord Stafford, who had suffered death on account of the Plot. But when the charge
went on to state that he had communicated for the same purpose with Geoffrey Hudson, sometimes
called Sir Geoffrey Hudson, now, or formerly in the domestic service of the Queen Dowager,
he looked at his companion as if he suddenly recalled him to remembrance, and broke out impatiently,
"These lies are too gross to require a moment's consideration. I might have had enough of intercourse,
though in nothing but what was loyal and innocent, with my noble kinsman, the late Lord Stafford--I
will call him so in spite of his misfortunes--and with my wife's relation, the Honourable Countess
of Derby. But what likelihood can there be that I should have colleagued with a decrepit buffoon,
with whom I never had an instant's communication, save once at an Easter feast, when I whistled
a hornpipe, as he danced on a trencher to amuse the company?"

The rage of the poor dwarf brought tears in his eyes, while, with an affected laugh, he said,
that instead of those juvenile and festive passages, Sir Geoffrey Peveril might have remembered
his charging along with him at Wiggan Lane.

"On my word," said Sir Geoffrey, after a moment's recollection, "I will do you justice, Master
Hudson--I believe you were there--I think I heard you did good service. But you will allow
you might have been near one without his seeing you."

A sort of titter ran through the Court at the simplicity of the larger Sir Geoffrey's testimony,
which the dwarf endeavoured to control, by standing on his tiptoes, and looking fiercely around,
as if to admonish the laughers that they indulged their mirth at their own peril. But perceiving
that this only excited farther scorn, he composed himself into a semblance of careless contempt,
observing, with a smile, that no one feared the glance of a chained lion; a magnificent simile,
which rather increased than diminished the mirth of those who heard it.

Against Julian Peveril there failed not to be charged the aggravated fact, that he had been
bearer of letters between the Countess of Derby and other Papists and priests, engaged in the
universal treasonable conspiracy of the Catholics; and the attack of the house at Moultrassie
Hall,--with his skirmish with Chiffinch, and his assault, as it was termed, on the person of
John Jenkins, servant to the Duke of Buckingham, were all narrated at length, as so many open
and overt acts of treasonable import. To this charge Peveril contented himself with pleading--Not
Guilty.

His little companion was not satisfied with so simple a plea; for when he heard it read, as
a part of the charge applying to him, that he had received from an agent of the Plot a blank
commission as Colonel of a regiment of grenadiers, he replied, in wrath and scorn, that if
Goliath of Gath had come to him with such a proposal, and proffered him the command of the
whole sons of Anak in a body, he should never have had occasion or opportunity to repeat the
temptation to another. "I would have slain him," said the little man of loyalty, "even where
he stood."

The charge was stated anew by the Counsel for the Crown; and forth came the notorious Doctor
Oates, rustling in the full silken canonicals of priesthood, for it was a time when he affected
no small dignity of exterior decoration and deportment.

This singular man, who, aided by the obscure intrigues of the Catholics themselves, and the
fortuitous circumstance of Godfrey's murder, had been able to cram down the public throat such
a mass of absurdity as his evidence amounts to, had no other talent for imposture than an impudence
which set conviction and shame alike at defiance. A man of sense or reflection, by trying to
give his plot an appearance of more probability, would most likely have failed, as wise men
often to do in addressing the multitude, from not daring to calculate upon the prodigious extent
of their credulity, especially where the figments presented to them involve the fearful and
the terrible.

Oates was by nature choleric; and the credit he had acquired made him insolent and conceited.

This notorious personage, such as we have described him, stood forth on the present trial,
and delivered his astonishing testimony concerning the existence of a Catholic Plot for the
subversion of the government and murder of the King, in the same general outline in which it
may be found in every English history. But as the doctor always had in reserve some special
piece of evidence affecting those immediately on trial, he was pleased, on the present occasion,
deeply to inculpate the Countess of Derby. "He had seen," as he said, "that honourable lady
when he was at the Jesuits' College at Saint Omer's. She had sent for him to an inn, or auberge,
as it was there termed--the sign of the Golden Lamb; and had ordered him to breakfast in the
same room with her ladyship; and afterwards told him, that, knowing he was trusted by the Fathers
of the Society, she was determined that he should have a share of her secrets also; and therewithal,
that she drew from her bosom a broad sharp-pointed knife, such as butchers kill sheep with,
and demanded of him what he thought of it for the purpose; and when he, the witness, said for
what purpose she rapt him on the fingers with her fan, called him a dull fellow, and said it
was designed to kill the King with."

Here Sir Geoffrey Peveril could no longer refrain his indignation and surprise. "Mercy of Heaven!"
he said, "did ever one hear of ladies of quality carrying butchering knives about them, and
telling every scurvy companion she meant to kill the King with them?--Gentleman of the Jury,
do but think if this is reasonable--though, if the villain could prove by any honest evidence,
that my Lady of Derby ever let such a scum as himself come to speech of her, I would believe
all he can say."

"Sir Geoffrey," said the Judge, "rest you quiet--You must not fly out--passion helps you not
here--the Doctor must be suffered to proceed."

Doctor Oates went on to state how the lady complained of the wrongs the House of Derby had
sustained from the King and the oppression of her religion, and boasted of the schemes of the
Jesuits and seminary priests; and how they would be farthered by her noble kinsman of the House
of Stanley. He finally averred that both the Countess and the Fathers of the seminary abroad,
founded much upon the talents and courage of Sir Geoffrey Peveril and his son--the latter of
whom was a member of her family. Of Hudson, he only recollected of having heard one of the
Fathers say, that although but a dwarf in stature, he would prove a giant in the cause of the
Church.

When he had ended his evidence, there was a pause, until the Judge, as if the thought had suddenly
occurred to him, demanded of Dr. Oates, whether he had ever mentioned the names of the Countess
of Derby in any of the previous informations which he had lodged before the Privy Council,
and elsewhere, upon this affair.

Oates seemed rather surprised at the question, and coloured with anger, as he answered, in
his peculiar mode of pronunciation, "Whoy, no, maay laard."

"And pray, Doctor," said the Judge, "how came so great a revealer of mysteries as you have
lately proved, to have suffered so material a circumstance as the accession of this powerful
family to the Plot to have remained undiscovered?"

"Maay laard," said Oates, with much effrontery, "aye do not come here to have my evidence questioned
as touching the Plaat."

"I do not question your evidence, Doctor," said Scroggs, for the time was not arrived that
he dared treat him roughly; "nor do I doubt the existence of the Plaat, since it is your pleasure
to swear to it. I would only have you, for your own sake, and the satisfaction of all good
Protestants, to explain why you have kept back such a weighty point of information from the
King and country."

"Maay laard," said Oates, "I will tell you a pretty fable."

"I hope," answered the Judge, "it may be the first and last which you shall tell in this place."

"Maay laard," continued Oates, "there was once a faux, who having to carry a goose over a frazen
river, and being afraid the aice would not bear him and his booty, did caarry aaver a staane,
my laard, in the first instance, to prove the strength of the aice."

"So your former evidence was but the stone, and now, for the first time, you have brought us
the goose?" said Sir William Scroggs; "to tell us this, Doctor, is to make geese of the Court
and Jury."

"I desoire your laardship's honest construction," said Oates, who saw the current changing
against him, but was determined to pay the score with effrontery. "All men knaw at what coast
and praice I have given my evidence, which has been always, under Gaad, the means of awakening
this poor naation to the dangerous state in which it staunds. Many here knaw that I have been
obliged to faartify my ladging at Whitehall against the bloody Papists. It was not to be thought
that I should have brought all the story out at aance. I think your wisdome would have advised
me otherwise."[*]

[*] It was on such terms that Dr. Oates was pleased to claim the
    extraordinary privilege of dealing out the information which he
    chose to communicate to a court of justice. The only sense in
    which his story of the fox, stone, and goose could be applicable,
    is by supposing that he was determined to ascertain the extent of
    his countrymen's credulity before supplying it with a full meal.

"Nay, Doctor," said the Judge, "it is not for me to direct you in this affair; and it is for
the Jury to believe you or not; and as for myself, I sit here to do justice to both--the Jury
have heard your answer to my question."

Doctor Oates retired from the witness-box reddening like a turkey-cock, as one totally unused
to have such accounts questioned as he chose to lay before the courts of justice; and there
was, perhaps, for the first time, amongst the counsel and solicitors, as well as the templars
and students of law there present, a murmur, distinct and audible, unfavourable to the character
of the great father of the Popish Plot.

Everett and Dangerfield, with whom the reader is already acquainted, were then called in succession
to sustain the accusation. They were subordinate informers--a sort of under-spur-leathers,
as the cant term went--who followed the path of Oates, with all deference to his superior genius
and invention, and made their own fictions chime in and harmonise with his, as well as their
talents could devise. But as their evidence had at no time received the full credence into
which the impudence of Oates had cajoled the public, so they now began to fall into discredit
rather more hastily than their prototype, as the super-added turrets of an ill-constructed
building are naturally the first to give way.

It was in vain that Everett, with the precision of a hypocrite, and Dangerfield, with the audacity
of a bully, narrated, with added circumstances of suspicion and criminality, their meeting
with Julian Peveril in Liverpool, and again at Martindale Castle. It was in vain they described
the arms and accoutrements which they pretended to have discovered in old Sir Geoffrey's possession;
and that they gave a most dreadful account of the escape of the younger Peveril from Moultrassie
Hall, by means of an armed force.

The Jury listened coldly, and it was visible that they were but little moved by the accusation;
especially as the Judge, always professing his belief in the Plot, and his zeal for the Protestant
religion, was ever and anon reminding them that presumptions were no proofs--that hearsay was
no evidence--that those who made a trade of discovery were likely to aid their researches by
invention--and that without doubting the guilt of the unfortunate persons at the bar, he would
gladly hear some evidence brought against them of a different nature. "Here we are told of
a riot, and an escape achieved by the younger Peveril, at the house of a grave and worthy magistrate,
known, I think, to most of us. Why, Master Attorney, bring ye not Master Bridgenorth himself
to prove the fact, or all his household, if it be necessary?--A rising in arms is an affair
over public to be left on the hearsay tale of these two men--though Heaven forbid that I should
suppose they speak one word more than they believe! They are the witnesses for the King--and,
what is equally dear to us, the Protestant religion--and witnesses against a most foul and
heathenish Plot. On the other hand, here is a worshipful old knight, for such I must suppose
him to be, since he has bled often in battle for the King,--such, I must say, I suppose him
to be, until he is proved otherwise. And here is his son, a hopeful young gentleman--we must
see that they have right, Master Attorney."

"Unquestionably, my lord," answered the Attorney. "God forbid else! But we will make out these
matters against these unhappy gentlemen in a manner more close, if your lordship will permit
us to bring in our evidence."

"Go on, Master Attorney," said the Judge, throwing himself back in his seat. "Heaven forbid
I hinder proving the King's accusation! I only say, what you know as well as I, that de non
apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio."

"We shall then call Master Bridgenorth, as your lordship advised, who I think is in waiting."

"No!" answered a voice from the crowd, apparently that of a female; "he is too wise and too
honest to be here."

The voice was distinct as that of Lady Fairfax, when she expressed herself to a similar effect
on the trial of Charles the First; but the researches which were made on the present occasion
to discover the speaker were unsuccessful.

After the slight confusion occasioned by this circumstance was abated, the Attorney, who had
been talking aside with the conductors of the prosecution, said, "Whoever favoured us with
that information, my lord, had good reason for what they said. Master Bridgenorth has become,
I am told, suddenly invisible since this morning."

"Look you there now, Master Attorney," said the Judge--"This comes of not keeping the crown
witnesses together and in readiness--I am sure I cannot help the consequences."

"Nor I either, my lord," said the Attorney pettishly. "I could have proved by this worshipful
gentleman, Master Justice Bridgenorth, the ancient friendship betwixt this party, Sir Geoffrey
Peveril, and the Countess of Derby, of whose doings and intentions Dr. Oates has given such
a deliberate evidence. I could have proved his having sheltered her in his Castle against a
process of law, and rescued her, by force of arms, from this very Justice Bridgenorth, not
without actual violence. Moreover, I could have proved against young Peveril the whole affray
charged upon him by the same worshipful evidence."

Here the Judge stuck his thumbs into his girdle, which was a favourite attitude of his on such
occasions, and exclaimed, "Pshaw, pshaw, Master Attorney!--Tell me not that you could have
proved that, or that, or this--Prove what you will, but let it be through the mouths of your
evidence. Men are not to be licked out of their lives by the rough side of a lawyer's tongue."

"Nor is a foul Plot to be smothered," said the Attorney, "for all the haste your lordship is
in. I cannot call Master Chiffinch neither, as he is employed on the King's especial affairs,
as I am this instant certiorated from the Court at Whitehall."

"Produce the papers, then, Master Attorney, of which this young man is said to be the bearer,"
said the Judge.

"They are before the Privy Council, my lord."

"Then why do you found on them here?" said the Judge--"This is something like trifling with
the Court."

"Since your lordship gives it that name," said the Attorney, sitting down in a huff, "you may
manage the cause as you will."

"If you do not bring more evidence, I pray you to charge the Jury," said the Judge.

"I shall not take the trouble to do so," said the Crown Counsel. "I see plainly how the matter
is to go."

"Nay, but be better advised," said Scroggs. "Consider, your case is but half proved respecting
the two Peverils, and doth not pinch on the little man at all, saving that Doctor Oates said
that he was in a certain case to prove a giant, which seems no very probable Popish miracle."

This sally occasioned a laugh in the Court, which the Attorney-General seemed to take in great
dudgeon.

"Master Attorney," said Oates, who always interfered in the management of these law-suits,
"this is a plain an absolute giving away of the cause--I must needs say it, a mere stoifling
of the Plaat."

"Then the devil who bred it may blow wind into it again, if he lists," answered the Attorney-General;
and, flinging down his brief, he left the Court, as if in a huff with all who were concerned
in the affair.

The Judge having obtained silence,--for a murmur arose in the Court when the Counsel for the
prosecution threw up his brief,--began to charge the Jury, balancing, as he had done throughout
the whole day, the different opinions by which he seemed alternately swayed. He protested on
his salvation that he had no more doubt of the existence of the horrid and damnable conspiracy
called the Popish Plot, than he had of the treachery of Judas Iscariot; and that he considered
Oates as the instrument under Providence of preserving the nation from all the miseries of
his Majesty's assassination, and of a second Saint Bartholomew, acted in the streets of London.
But then he stated it was the candid construction of the law of England, that the worse the
crime, the more strong should be the evidence. Here was the case of accessories tried, whilst
their principal--for such he should call the Countess of Derby--was unconvicted and at large;
and for Doctor Oates, he had but spoke of matters which personally applied to that noble lady,
whose words, if she used such in passion, touching aid which she expected in some treasonable
matters from these Peverils, and from her kinsmen, or her son's kinsmen, of the House of Stanley,
may have been but a burst of female resentment--dulcis Amaryllidis ira, as the poet hath it.
Who knoweth but Doctor Oates did mistake--he being a gentleman of a comely countenance and
easy demeanour--this same rap with the fan as a chastisement for lack of courage in the Catholic
cause, when, peradventure, it was otherwise meant, as Popish ladies will put, it is said, such
neophytes and youthful candidates for orders, to many severe trials. "I speak these things
jocularly," said the Judge, "having no wish to stain the reputation either of the Honourable
Countess or the Reverend Doctor; only I think the bearing between them may have related to
something short of high treason. As for what the Attorney-General hath set forth of rescues
and force, and I wot not what, sure I am, that in a civil country, when such things happen
such things may be proved; and that you and I, gentlemen, are not to take them for granted
gratuitously. Touching this other prisoner, this Galfridus minimus, he must needs say," he
continued, "he could not discover even a shadow of suspicion against him. Was it to be thought
so abortive a creature would thrust himself into depths of policy, far less into stratagems
of war? They had but to look at him to conclude the contrary--the creature was, from his age,
fitter for the grave than a conspiracy--and by his size and appearance, for the inside of a
raree-show, than the mysteries of a plot."

The dwarf here broke in upon the Judge by force of screaming, to assure him that he had been,
simple as he sat there, engaged in seven plots in Cromwell's time; and, as he proudly added,
with some of the tallest men of England. The matchless look and air with which Sir Geoffrey
made this vaunt, set all a-laughing, and increased the ridicule with which the whole trial
began to be received; so that it was amidst shaking sides and watery eyes that a general verdict
of Not Guilty was pronounced, and the prisoners dismissed from the bar.

But a warmer sentiment awakened among those who saw the father and son throw themselves into
each other's arms, and, after a hearty embrace, extend their hands to their poor little companion
in peril, who, like a dog, when present at a similar scene, had at last succeeded, by stretching
himself up to them and whimpering at the same time, to secure to himself a portion of their
sympathy and gratulation.

Such was the singular termination of this trial. Charles himself was desirous to have taken
considerable credit with the Duke of Ormond for the evasion of the law, which had been thus
effected by his private connivance; and was both surprised and mortified at the coldness with
which his Grace replied, that he was rejoiced at the poor gentleman's safety, but would rather
have had the King redeem them like a prince, by his royal prerogative of mercy, than that his
Judge should convey them out of the power of the law, like a juggler with his cups and balls.

CHAPTER XLII

                     ----On fair ground
                     I could beat forty of them!
                                           --CORIOLANUS.

It doubtless occurred to many that were present at the trial we have described, that it was
managed in a singular manner, and that the quarrel, which had the appearance of having taken
place between the Court and the Crown Counsel, might proceed from some private understanding
betwixt them, the object of which was the miscarriage of the accusation. Yet though such underhand
dealing was much suspected, the greater part of the audience, being well educated and intelligent,
had already suspected the bubble of the Popish Plot, and were glad to see that accusations,
founded on what had already cost so much blood, could be evaded in any way. But the crowd,
who waited in the Court of Requests, and in the hall, and without doors, viewed in a very different
light the combination, as they interpreted it, between the Judge and the Attorney-General,
for the escape of the prisoners.

Oates, whom less provocation than he had that day received often induced to behave like one
frantic with passion, threw himself amongst the crowd, and repeated till he was hoarse, "Theay
are stoifling the Plaat!--theay are straangling the Plaat!--My Laard Justice and Maaster Attarney
are in league to secure the escape of the plaaters and Paapists!"

"It is the device of the Papist whore of Portsmouth," said one.

"Of old Rowley himself," said another.

"If he could be murdered by himself, why hang those that would hinder it!" exclaimed a third.

"He should be tried," said a fourth, "for conspiring his own death, and hanged in terrorem."

In the meanwhile, Sir Geoffrey, his son, and their little companion, left the hall, intending
to go to Lady Peveril's lodgings, which had been removed to Fleet Street. She had been relieved
from considerable inconvenience, as Sir Geoffrey gave Julian hastily to understand, by an angel,
in the shape of a young friend, and she now expected them doubtless with impatience. Humanity,
and some indistinct idea of having unintentionally hurt the feelings of the poor dwarf, induced
the honest Cavalier to ask this unprotected being to go with them. "He knew Lady Peveril's
lodgings were but small," he said; "but it would be strange, if there was not some cupboard
large enough to accommodate the little gentleman."

The dwarf registered this well-meant remark in his mind, to be the subject of a proper explanation,
along with the unhappy reminiscence of the trencher-hornpipe, whenever time should permit an
argument of such nicety.

And thus they sallied from the hall, attracting general observation, both from the circumstances
in which they had stood so lately, and from their resemblance, as a wag of the Inner Temple
expressed it, to the three degrees of comparison, Large, Lesser, Least. But they had not passed
far along the street, when Julian perceived that more malevolent passions than mere curiosity
began to actuate the crowd which followed, and, as it were, dogged their motions.

"There go the Papist cut-throats, tantivy for Rome!" said one fellow.

"Tantivy to Whitehall, you mean!" said another.

"Ah! the bloodthirsty villains!" cried a woman: "Shame, one of them should be suffered to live,
after poor Sir Edmondsbury's cruel murder."

"Out upon the mealy-mouthed Jury, that turned out the bloodhounds on an innocent town!" cried
a fourth.

In short, the tumult thickened, and the word began to pass among the more desperate, "Lambe
them, lads; lambe them!"--a cant phrase of the time, derived from the fate of Dr. Lambe, an
astrologer and quack, who was knocked on the head by the rabble in Charles the First's time.

Julian began to be much alarmed at these symptoms of violence, and regretted that they had
not gone down to the city by water. It was now too late to think of that mode of retreating,
and he therefore requested his father in a whisper, to walk steadily forward towards Charing
Cross, taking no notice of the insults which might be cast upon them, while the steadiness
of their pace and appearance might prevent the rabble from resorting to actual violence. The
execution of this prudent resolution was prevented after they had passed the palace, by the
hasty disposition of the elder Sir Geoffrey, and the no less choleric temper of Galfridus Minimus,
who had a soul which spurned all odds, as well of numbers as of size.

"Now a murrain take the knaves, with their hollowing and whooping," said the large knight;
"by this day, if I could but light on a weapon, I would cudgel reason and loyalty into some
of their carcasses!"

"And I also," said the dwarf, who was toiling to keep up with the longer strides of his companions,
and therefore spoke in a very phthisical tone.--"I also will cudgel the plebeian knaves beyond
measure--he!--hem!"

Among the crowd who thronged around them, impeded, and did all but assault them, was a mischievous
shoemaker's apprentice, who, hearing this unlucky vaunt of the valorous dwarf, repaid it by
flapping him on the head with a boot which he was carrying home to the owner, so as to knock
the little gentleman's hat over his eyes. The dwarf, thus rendered unable to discover the urchin
that had given him the offence, flew with instinctive ambition against the biggest fellow in
the crowd, who received the onset with a kick on the stomach, which made the poor little champion
reel back to his companions. They were now assaulted on all sides; but fortune complying with
the wish of Sir Geoffrey the larger, ordained that the scuffle should happen near the booth
of a cutler, from amongst whose wares, as they stood exposed to the public, Sir Geoffrey Peveril
snatched a broadsword, which he brandished with the formidable address of one who had for many
a day been in the familiar practice of using such a weapon. Julian, while at the same time
he called loudly for a peace-officer, and reminded the assailants that they were attacking
inoffensive passengers, saw nothing better for it than to imitate his father's example, and
seized also one of the weapons thus opportunely offered.

When they displayed these demonstrations of defence, the rush which the rabble at first made
towards them was so great as to throw down the unfortunate dwarf, who would have been trampled
to death in the scuffle, had not his stout old namesake cleared the rascal crowd from about
him with a few flourishes of his weapon, and seizing on the fallen champion, put him out of
danger (except from missiles), by suddenly placing him on the bulk-head, that is to say, the
flat wooden roof of the cutler's projecting booth. From the rusty ironware, which was displayed
there, the dwarf instantly snatched an old rapier and target, and covering himself with the
one, stood making passes with the other, at the faces and eyes of the people in the street;
so much delighted with his post of vantage, that he called loudly to his friends who were skirmishing
with the riotous on more equal terms as to position, to lose no time in putting themselves
under his protection. But far from being in a situation to need his assistance, the father
and son might easily have extricated themselves from the rabble by their own exertions, could
they have thought of leaving the mannikin in the forlorn situation, in which, to every eye
but his own, he stood like a diminutive puppet, tricked out with sword and target as a fencing-master's
sign.

Stones and sticks began now to fly very thick, and the crowd, notwithstanding the exertions
of the Peverils to disperse them with as little harm as possible, seemed determined on mischief,
when some gentlemen who had been at the trial, understanding that the prisoners who had been
just acquitted were in danger of being murdered by the populace, drew their swords, and made
forward to effect their rescue, which was completed by a small party of the King's Life Guards,
who had been despatched from their ordinary post of alarm, upon intelligence of what was passing.
When this unexpected reinforcement arrived, the old jolly Knight at once recognised, amidst
the cries of those who then entered upon action, some of the sounds which had animated his
more active years.

"Where be these cuckoldly Roundheads," cried some.--"Down with the sneaking knaves!" cried
others.--"The King and his friends, and the devil a one else!" exclaimed a third set, with
more oaths and d--n me's, than, in the present more correct age, it is necessary to commit
to paper.

The old soldier, pricking up his ears like an ancient hunter at the cry of the hounds, would
gladly have scoured the Strand, with the charitable purpose, now he saw himself so well supported,
of knocking the London knaves, who had insulted him, into twiggen bottles; but he was withheld
by the prudence of Julian, who, though himself extremely irritated by the unprovoked ill-usage
which they had received, saw himself in a situation in which it was necessary to exercise more
caution than vengeance. He prayed and pressed his father to seek some temporary place of retreat
from the fury of the populace, while that prudent measure was yet in their power. The subaltern
officer, who commanded the party of the Life Guards, exhorted the old Cavalier eagerly to the
same sage counsel, using, as a spice of compulsion, the name of the King; while Julian strongly
urged that of his mother. The old Knight looked at his blade, crimsoned with cross-cuts and
slashes which he had given to the most forward of the assailants, with the eye of one not half
sufficed.

"I would I had pinked one of the knaves at least--but I know not how it was, when I looked
on their broad round English faces, I shunned to use my point, and only sliced the rogues a
little."

"But the King's pleasure," said the officer, "is, that no tumult be prosecuted."

"My mother," said Julian, "will die with fright, if the rumour of this scuffle reaches her
ere we see her."

"Ay, ay," said the Knight, "the King's Majesty and my good dame--well, their pleasure be done,
that's all I can say--Kings and ladies must be obeyed. But which way to retreat, since retreat
we must?"

Julian would have been at some loss to advise what course to take, for everybody in the vicinity
had shut up their shops, and chained their doors, upon observing the confusion become so formidable.
The poor cutler, however, with whose goods they made so free, offered them an asylum on the
part of his landlord, whose house served as a rest for his shop, and only intimated gently,
he hoped the gentleman would consider him for the use of his weapons.

Julian was hastily revolving whether they ought, in prudence, to accept this man's invitation,
aware, by experience, how many trepans, as they were then termed, were used betwixt two contending
factions, each too inveterate to be very scrupulous of the character of fair play to an enemy,
when the dwarf, exerting his cracked voice to the uttermost, and shrieking like an exhausted
herald, from the exalted station which he still occupied on the bulk-head, exhorted them to
accept the offer of the worthy man of the mansion. "He himself," he said, as he reposed himself
after the glorious conquest in which he had some share, "had been favoured with a beatific
vision, too splendid to be described to common and mere mortal ears, but which had commanded
him, in a voice to which his heart had bounded as to a trumpet sound, to take refuge with the
worthy person of the house, and cause his friends to do so."

"Vision!" said the Knight of the Peak,--"sound of a trumpet!--the little man is stark mad."

But the cutler, in great haste, intimated to them that their little friend had received an
intimation from a gentlewoman of his acquaintance, who spoke to him from the window, while
he stood on the bulk-head, that they would find a safe retreat in his landlord's; and desiring
them to attend to two or three deep though distant huzzas, made them aware that the rabble
were up still, and would soon be upon them with renewed violence, and increased numbers.

The father and son, therefore, hastily thanked the officer and his party, as well as the other
gentlemen who had volunteered in their assistance, lifted little Sir Geoffrey Hudson from the
conspicuous post which he had so creditably occupied during the skirmish, and followed the
footsteps of the tenant of the booth, who conducted them down a blind alley and through one
or two courts, in case, as he said, any one might have watched where they burrowed, and so
into a back-door. This entrance admitted them to a staircase carefully hung with straw mats
to exclude damp, from the upper step of which they entered upon a tolerably large withdrawing-room,
hung with coarse green serge edged with gilded leather, which the poorer or more economical
citizens at that time use instead of tapestry or wainscoting.

Here the poor cutler received from Julian such a gratuity for the loan of the swords, that
he generously abandoned the property to the gentlemen who had used them so well; "the rather,"
he said, "that he saw, by the way they handed their weapons, that they were men of mettle,
and tall fellows."

Here the dwarf smiled on him courteously, and bowed, thrusting at the same time, his hand into
his pocket, which however, he withdrew carelessly probably because he found he had not the
means of making the small donation which he had meditated.

The cutler proceeded to say, as he bowed and was about to withdraw, that he saw there would
be merry days yet in Old England, and that Bilboa blades would fetch as good a price as ever.
"I remember," he said, "gentlemen, though I was then but a 'prentice, the demand for weapons
in the years forty-one and forty-two; sword blades were more in request than toothpicks, and
Old Ironsides, my master, took more for rascally Provant rapiers, than I dare ask nowadays
for a Toledo. But, to be sure, a man's life then rested on the blade he carried; the Cavaliers
and Roundheads fought every day at the gates of Whitehall, as it is like, gentlemen, by your
good example, they may do again, when I shall be enabled to leave my pitiful booth, and open
a shop of better quality. I hope you will recommend me, gentlemen, to your friends. I am always
provided with ware which a gentleman may risk his life on."

"Thank you, good friend," said Julian, "I prithee begone. I trust we shall need thy ware no
more for some time at least."

The cutler retired, while the dwarf hollowed after him downstairs, that he would call on him
soon, and equip himself with a longer blade, and one more proper for action; although, he said,
the little weapon he had did well enough for a walking-sword, or in a skirmish with such canaille
as they had been engaged with.

The cutler returned at this summons, and agreed to pleasure the little man with a weapon more
suitable to his magnanimity; then, as if the thought had suddenly occurred to him, he said,
"But, gentlemen, it will be wild work to walk with your naked swords through the Strand, and
it can scarce fail to raise the rabble again. If you please, while you repose yourselves here,
I can fit the blades with sheaths."

The proposal seemed so reasonable, that Julian and his father gave up their weapons to the
friendly cutler, an example which the dwarf followed, after a moment's hesitation, not caring,
as he magnificently expressed it, to part so soon with the trusty friend which fortune had
but the moment before restored to his hand. The man retired with the weapons under his arm;
and, in shutting the door behind him, they heard him turn the key.

"Did you hear that?" said Sir Geoffrey to his son--"and we are disarmed!"

Julian, without reply, examined the door, which was fast secured; and then looked at the casements,
which were at a storey's height from the ground, and grated besides with iron. "I cannot think,"
he said, after a moment's pause, "that the fellow means to trepan us; and, in any event, I
trust we should have no difficulty in forcing the door, or otherwise making escape. But, before
resorting to such violent measures, I think it is better to give the rabble leisure to disperse,
by waiting this man's return with our weapons within a reasonable time, when, if he does not
appear, I trust we shall find little difficulty in extricating ourselves." As he spoke thus,
the hangings were pulled aside, and from a small door which was concealed behind them, Major
Bridgenorth entered the room.

CHAPTER XLIII

            He came amongst them like a new raised spirit
            To speak of dreadful judgments that impend,
            And of the wrath to come.
                                               --THE REFORMER.

The astonishment of Julian at the unexpected apparition of Bridgenorth, was instantly succeeded
by apprehension of his father's violence, which he had every reason to believe would break
forth against one, whom he himself could not but reverence on account of his own merits, as
well as because he was the father of Alice. The appearance of Bridgenorth was not however,
such as to awaken resentment. His countenance was calm, his step slow and composed, his eye
not without the indication of some deep-seated anxiety, but without any expression either of
anger or of triumph. "You are welcome," he said, "Sir Geoffrey Peveril, to the shelter and
hospitality of this house; as welcome as you would have been in other days, when we called
each other neighbours and friends."

"Odzooks," said the old Cavalier; "and had I known it was thy house, man, I would sooner had
my heart's blood run down the kennel, than my foot should have crossed your threshold--in the
way of seeking safety, that is."

"I forgive your inveteracy," said Major Bridgenorth, "on account of your prejudices."

"Keep your forgiveness," answered the Cavalier, "until you are pardoned yourself. By Saint
George I have sworn, if ever I got my heels out of yon rascally prison, whither I was sent
much through your means, Master Bridgenorth,--that you should pay the reckoning for my bad
lodging.--I will strike no man in his own house; but if you will cause the fellow to bring
back my weapon, and take a turn in that blind court there below, along with me, you shall soon
see what chance a traitor hath with a true man, and a kennel-blooded Puritan with Peveril of
the Peak."

Bridgenorth smiled with much composure. "When I was younger and more warm-blooded," he replied,
"I refused your challenge, Sir Geoffrey; it is not likely I should now accept it, when each
is within a stride of the grave. I have not spared, and will not spare, my blood, when my country
wants it."

"That is when there is any chance of treason against the King," said Sir Geoffrey.

"Nay, my father," said Julian, "let us hear Master Bridgenorth! We have been sheltered in his
house; and although we now see him in London, we should remember that he did not appear against
us this day, when perhaps his evidence might have given a fatal turn to our situation."

"You are right, young man," said Bridgenorth; "and it should be some pledge of my sincere goodwill,
that I was this day absent from Westminster, when a few words from my mouth had ended the long
line of Peveril of the Peak: it needed but ten minutes to walk to Westminster Hall, to have
ensured your condemnation. But could I have done this, knowing, as I now know, that to thee,
Julian Peveril, I owe the extrication of my daughter--of my dearest Alice--the memory of her
departed mother--from the snares which hell and profligacy had opened around her?"

"She is, I trust safe," said Peveril eagerly, and almost forgetting his father's presence;
"she is, I trust, safe, and in your own wardship?"

"Not in mine," said the dejected father; "but in that of one in whose protection, next to that
of Heaven, I can most fully confide."

"Are you sure--are you very sure of that?" repeated Julian eagerly. "I found her under the
charge of one to whom she had been trusted, and who yet----"

"And who yet was the basest of women," answered Bridgenorth; "but he who selected her for the
charge was deceived in her character."

"Say rather you were deceived in his; remember that when we parted in Moultrassie, I warned
you of that Ganlesse--that----"

"I know your meaning," said Bridgenorth; "nor did you err in describing him as a worldly-wise
man. But he has atoned for his error by recovering Alice from the dangers into which she has
plunged when separated from you; and besides, I have not thought meet again to entrust him
with the charge that is dearest to me."

"I thank God your eyes are thus far opened!" said Julian.

"This day will open them wide, or close them for ever," answered Bridgenorth.

During this dialogue, which the speakers hurried through without attending to the others who
were present, Sir Geoffrey listened with surprise and eagerness, endeavouring to catch something
which should render their conversation intelligible; but as he totally failed in gaining any
such key to their meaning, he broke in with,--"'Sblood and thunder, Julian, what unprofitable
gossip is this? What hast thou to do with this fellow, more than to bastinado him, if you should
think it worth while to beat so old a rogue?"

"My dearest father," said Julian, "you know not this gentleman--I am certain you do him injustice.
My own obligations to him are many; and I am sure when you come to know them----"

"I hope I shall die ere that moment come," said Sir Geoffrey; and continued with increasing
violence, "I hope in the mercy of Heaven, that I shall be in the grave of my ancestors, ere
I learn that my son--my only son--the last hope of my ancient house--the last remnant of the
name of Peveril--hath consented to receive obligations from the man on earth I am most bound
to hate, were I not still more bound to contemn him!--Degenerate dog-whelp!" he repeated with
great vehemence, "you colour without replying! Speak, and disown such disgrace; or, by the
God of my fathers----"

The dwarf suddenly stepped forward and called out, "Forbear!" with a voice at once so discordant
and commanding, that it sounded supernatural. "Man of sin and pride," he said, "forbear; and
call not the name of a holy God to witness thine unhallowed resentments."

The rebuke so boldly and decidedly given, and the moral enthusiasm with which he spoke, gave
the despised dwarf an ascendancy for the moment over the fiery spirit of his gigantic namesake.
Sir Geoffrey Peveril eyed him for an instant askance and shyly, as he might have done a supernatural
apparition, and then muttered, "What knowest thou of my cause of wrath?"

"Nothing," said the dwarf;--"nothing but this--that no cause can warrant the oath thou wert
about to swear. Ungrateful man! thou wert to-day rescued from the devouring wrath of the wicked,
by a marvellous conjunction of circumstances--Is this a day, thinkest thou, on which to indulge
thine own hasty resentments?"

"I stand rebuked," said Sir Geoffrey, "and by a singular monitor--the grasshopper, as the prayer-book
saith, hath become a burden to me.--Julian, I will speak to thee of these matters hereafter;--and
for you, Master Bridgenorth, I desire to have no farther communication with you, either in
peace or in anger. Our time passes fast, and I would fain return to my family. Cause our weapons
to be restored; unbar the doors, and let us part without farther altercation, which can but
disturb and aggravate our spirits."

"Sir Geoffrey Peveril," said Bridgenorth, "I have no desire to vex your spirit or my own; but,
for thus soon dismissing you, that may hardly be, it being a course inconsistent with the work
which I have on hand."

"How, sir! Do you mean that we should abide here, whether with or against our inclinations?"
said the dwarf. "Were it not that I am laid under charge to remain here, by one who hath the
best right to command this poor microcosm, I would show thee that bolts and bars are unavailing
restraints on such as I am."

"Truly," said Sir Geoffrey, "I think, upon an emergency, the little man might make his escape
through the keyhole."

Bridgenorth's face was moved into something like a smile at the swaggering speech of the pigmy
hero, and the contemptuous commentary of Sir Geoffrey Peveril; but such an expression never
dwelt on his features for two seconds together, and he replied in these words:--"Gentlemen,
each and all of you must be fain to content yourselves. Believe me, no hurt is intended towards
you; on the contrary, your remaining here will be a means of securing your safety, which would
be otherwise deeply endangered. It will be your own fault if a hair of your head is hurt. But
the stronger force is on my side; and, whatever harm you may meet with should you attempt to
break forth by violence, the blame must rest with yourselves. It you will not believe me, I
will permit Master Julian Peveril to accompany me, where he shall see that I am provided fully
with the means of repressing violence."

"Treason!--treason!" exclaimed the old Knight--"Treason against God and King Charles!--Oh,
for one half-hour of the broadsword which I parted with like an ass!"

"Hold, my father, I conjure you!" said Julian. "I will go with Master Bridgenorth, since he
requests it. I will satisfy myself whether there be danger, and of what nature. It is possible
I may prevail on him to desist from some desperate measure, if such be indeed in agitation.
Should it be necessary, fear not that your son will behave as he ought to do."

"Do your pleasure, Julian," said his father; "I will confide in thee. But if you betray my
confidence, a father's curse shall cleave to you."

Bridgenorth now motioned to Peveril to follow him, and they passed through the small door by
which he entered.

The passage led to a vestibule or anteroom, in which several other doors and passages seemed
to centre. Through one of these Julian was conducted by Bridgenorth, walking with silence and
precaution, in obedience to a signal made by his guide to that effect. As they advanced, he
heard sounds, like those of the human voice, engaged in urgent and emphatic declamation. With
slow and light steps Bridgenorth conducted him through a door which terminated this passage;
and as he entered a little gallery, having a curtain in front, the sound of the preacher's
voice--for such it now seemed--became distinct and audible.

Julian now doubted not that he was in one of those conventicles, which, though contrary to
the existing laws, still continued to be regularly held in different parts of London and the
suburbs. Many of these, as frequented by persons of moderate political principles, though dissenters
from the Church for conscience' sake, were connived at by the prudence or timidity of the government.
But some of them, in which assembled the fiercer and more exalted sects of Independents, Anabaptists,
Fifth-Monarchy men, and other sectaries, whose stern enthusiasm had contributed so greatly
to effect the overthrow of the late King's throne, were sought after, suppressed, and dispersed,
whenever they could be discovered.

Julian was soon satisfied that the meeting into which he was thus secretly introduced was one
of the latter class; and, to judge by the violence of the preacher, of the most desperate character.
He was still more effectually convinced of this, when, at a sign from Bridgenorth, he cautiously
unclosed a part of the curtain which hung before the gallery, and thus, unseen himself, looked
down on the audience, and obtained a view of the preacher.

About two hundred persons were assembled beneath, in an area filled up with benches, as if
for the exercise of worship; and they were all of the male sex, and well armed with pikes and
muskets, as well as swords and pistols. Most of them had the appearance of veteran soldiers,
now past the middle of life, yet retaining such an appearance of strength as might well supply
the loss of youthful agility. They stood, or sat, in various attitudes of stern attention;
and, resting on their spears and muskets, kept their eyes firmly fixed on the preacher, who
ended the violence of his declamation by displaying from the pulpit a banner, on which was
represented a lion, with the motto, "Vicit Leo ex tribu Judæ."

The torrent of mystical yet animating eloquence of the preacher--an old grey-haired man, whom
zeal seemed to supply with the powers of voice and action, of which years had deprived him--was
suited to the taste of his audience, but could not be transferred to these pages without scandal
and impropriety. He menaced the rulers of England with all the judgments denounced on those
of Moab and Assyria--he called upon the saints to be strong, to be up and doing; and promised
those miracles which, in the campaigns of Joshua, and his successors, the valiant Judges of
Israel, supplied all odds against the Amorites, Midianites, and Philistines. He sounded trumpets,
opened vials, broke seals, and denounced approaching judgments under all the mystical signs
of the Apocalypse. The end of the world was announced, accompanied with all its preliminary
terrors.

Julian, with deep anxiety, soon heard enough to make him aware that the meeting was likely
to terminate in open insurrection, like that of the Fifth-Monarchy men, under Venner, at an
earlier period of Charles's reign; and he was not a little concerned at the probability of
Bridgenorth being implicated in so criminal and desperate an undertaking. If he had retained
any doubts of the issue of the meeting, they must have been removed when the preacher called
on his hearers to renounce all expectation which had hitherto been entertained of safety to
the nation, from the execution of the ordinary laws of the land. This, he said, was at best
but a carnal seeking after earthly aid--a going down to Egypt for help, which the jealousy
of their Divine Leader would resent as a fleeing to another rock, and a different banner, from
that which was this day displayed over them.--And here he solemnly swung the bannered lion
over their heads, as the only sign under which they ought to seek for life and safety. He then
proceeded to insist, that recourse to ordinary justice was vain as well as sinful.

"The event of that day at Westminster," he said, "might teach them that the man at Whitehall
was even as the man his father;" and closed a long tirade against the vices of the Court, with
assurance "that Tophet was ordained of old--for the King it was made hot."

As the preacher entered on a description of the approaching theocracy, which he dared to prophesy,
Bridgenorth, who appeared for a time to have forgotten the presence of Julian, whilst with
stern and fixed attention he drunk in the words of the preacher, seemed suddenly to collect
himself, and, taking Julian by the hand, led him out of the gallery, of which he carefully
closed the door, into an apartment at no great distance.

When they arrived there, he anticipated the expostulations of Julian, by asking him, in a tone
of severe triumph, whether these men he had seen were likely to do their work negligently,
or whether it would not be perilous to attempt to force their way from a house, when all the
avenues were guarded by such as he had now seen--men of war from their childhood upwards.

"In the name of Heaven," said Julian, without replying to Bridgenorth's question, "for what
desperate purpose have you assembled so many desperate men? I am well aware that your sentiments
of religion are peculiar; but beware how you deceive yourself--No views of religion can sanction
rebellion and murder; and such are the natural and necessary consequences of the doctrine we
have just heard poured into the ears of fanatical and violent enthusiasts."

"My son," said Bridgenorth calmly, "in the days of my non-age, I thought as you do. I deemed
it sufficient to pay my tithes of cummin and aniseed--my poor petty moral observances of the
old law; and I thought I was heaping up precious things, when they were in value no more than
the husks of the swine-trough. Praised be Heaven, the scales are fallen from mine eyes; and
after forty years' wandering in the desert of Sinai, I am at length arrived in the Land of
Promise--My corrupt human nature has left me--I have cast my slough, and can now with some
conscience put my hand to the plough, certain that there is no weakness left in me where-through
I may look back. The furrows," he added, bending his brows, while a gloomy fire filled his
large eyes, "must be drawn long and deep, and watered by the blood of the mighty."

There was a change in Bridgenorth's tone and manner, when he used these singular expressions,
which convinced Julian that his mind, which had wavered for so many years between his natural
good sense and the insane enthusiasm of the time, had finally given way to the latter; and,
sensible of the danger in which the unhappy man himself, the innocent and beautiful Alice,
and his own father, were likely to be placed--to say nothing of the general risk of the community
by a sudden insurrection, he at the same time felt that there was no chance of reasoning effectually
with one, who would oppose spiritual conviction to all arguments which reason could urge against
his wild schemes. To touch his feeling seemed a more probable resource; and Julian therefore
conjured Bridgenorth to think how much his daughter's honour and safety were concerned in his
abstaining from the dangerous course which he meditated. "If you fall," he said, "must she
not pass under the power and guardianship of her uncle, whom you allow to have shown himself
capable of the grossest mistake in the choice of her female protectress; and whom I believe,
upon good grounds, to have made that infamous choice with his eyes open?"

"Young man," answered Bridgenorth, "you make me feel like the poor bird, around whose wing
some wanton boy has fixed a line, to pull the struggling wretch to earth at his pleasure. Know,
since thou wilt play this cruel part, and drag me down from higher contemplations, that she
with whom Alice is placed, and who hath in future full power to guide her motions, and decide
her fate, despite of Christian and every one else, is--I will not tell thee who she is--Enough--no
one--thou least of all, needs to fear for her safety."

At this moment a side-door opened, and Christian himself came into the apartment. He started
and coloured when he saw Julian Peveril; then turning to Bridgenorth with an assumed air of
indifference, asked, "Is Saul among the prophets?--Is a Peveril among the saints?"

"No, brother," replied Bridgenorth, "his time is not come more than thine own--thou art too
deep in the ambitious intrigues of manhood, and he in the giddy passions of youth, to hear
the still calm voice--You will both hear it, as I trust and pray."

"Master Ganlesse, or Christian, or by whatever name you are called," said Julian, "by whatever
reasons you guide yourself in this most perilous matter, you at least are not influenced by
any idea of an immediate divine command for commencing hostilities against the state. Leaving,
therefore, for the present, whatever subjects of discussion may be between us, I implore you,
as a man of shrewdness and sense, to join with me in dissuading Master Bridgenorth from the
fatal enterprise which he now meditates."

"Young gentleman," said Christian, with great composure, "when we met in the west, I was willing
to have made a friend of you, but you rejected the overture. You might, however, even then
have seen enough of me to be assured, that I am not likely to rush too rashly on any desperate
undertaking. As to this which lies before us, my brother Bridgenorth brings to it the simplicity,
though not the harmlessness of the dove, and I the subtilty of the serpent. He hath the leading
of saints who are moved by the spirit; and I can add to their efforts a powerful body, who
have for their instigators the world, the devil, and the flesh."

"And can you," said Julian, looking at Bridgenorth, "accede to such an unworthy union?"

"I unite not with them," said Bridgenorth; "but I may not, without guilt, reject the aid which
Providence sends to assist His servants. We are ourselves few, though determined--Those whose
swords come to help the cutting down of the harvest, must be welcome--When their work is wrought,
they will be converted or scattered.--Have you been at York Place, brother, with that unstable
epicure? We must have his last resolution, and that within an hour."

Christian looked at Julian, as if his presence prevented him from returning an answer; upon
which Bridgenorth arose, and taking the young man by the arm, led him out of the apartment,
into that in which they had left his father; assuring him by the way, that determined and vigilant
guards were placed in every different quarter by which escape could be effected, and that he
would do well to persuade his father to remain a quiet prisoner for a few hours.

Julian returned him no answer, and Bridgenorth presently retired, leaving him alone with his
father and Hudson. To their questions he could only briefly reply, that he feared they were
trepanned, since they were in the house with at least two hundred fanatics, completely armed,
and apparently prepared for desperate enterprise. Their own want of arms precluded the possibility
of open violence; and however unpleasant it might be to remain in such a condition, it seemed
difficult, from the strength of the fastenings at doors and windows, to attempt any secret
escape without instantaneous detection.

The valiant dwarf alone nursed hopes, with which he in vain endeavoured to inspire his companions
in affliction. "The fair one, whose eyes," he said, "were like the twin stars of Leda"--for
the little man was a great admirer of lofty language--"had not invited him, the most devoted,
and, it might be, not the least favoured of her servants, into this place as a harbour, in
order that he might therein suffer shipwreck; and he generously assured his friends, that in
his safety they also should be safe."

Sir Geoffrey, little cheered by this intimation, expressed his despair at not being able to
get the length of Whitehall, where he trusted to find as many jolly Cavaliers as would help
him to stifle the whole nest of wasps in their hive; while Julian was of opinion that the best
service he could now render Bridgenorth, would be timeously to disclose his plot, and, if possible,
to send him at the same time warning to save his person.

But we must leave them to meditate over their plans at leisure; no one of which, as they all
depended on their previous escape from confinement, seemed in any great chance of being executed.

CHAPTER XLIV

         And some for safety took the dreadful leap;
         Some for the voice of Heaven seem'd calling on them;
         Some for advancement, or for lucre's sake--
         I leap'd in frolic.
                                                  --THE DREAM.

After a private conversation with Bridgenorth, Christian hastened to the Duke of Buckingham's
hotel, taking at the same time such a route as to avoid meeting with any acquaintance. He was
ushered into the apartment of the Duke, whom he found cracking and eating filberts, with a
flask of excellent white wine at his elbow. "Christian," said his Grace, "come help me to laugh--I
have bit Sir Charles Sedley--flung him for a thousand, by the gods!"

"I am glad at your luck, my Lord Duke," replied Christian; "but I am come here on serious business."

"Serious?--why, I shall hardly be serious in my life again--ha, ha, ha!--and for luck, it was
no such thing--sheer wit, and excellent contrivance; and but that I don't care to affront Fortune,
like the old Greek general, I might tell her to her face--In this thou hadst no share. You
have heard, Ned Christian, that Mother Cresswell is dead?"

"Yes, I did hear that the devil hath got his due," answered Christian.

"Well," said the Duke, "you are ungrateful; for I know you have been obliged to her, as well
as others. Before George, a most benevolent and helpful old lady; and that she might not sleep
in an unblest grave, I betted--do you mark me--with Sedley, that I would write her funeral
sermon; that it should be every word in praise of her life and conversation, that it should
be all true, and yet that the diocesan should be unable to lay his thumb on Quodling, my little
chaplain, who should preach it."

"I perfectly see the difficulty, my lord," said Christian, who well knew that if he wished
to secure attention from this volatile nobleman, he must first suffer, nay, encourage him,
to exhaust the topic, whatever it might be, that had got temporary possession of his pineal gland.

"Why," said the Duke, "I had caused my little Quodling to go through his oration thus--'That
whatever evil reports had passed current during the lifetime of the worthy matron whom they
had restored to dust that day, malice herself could not deny that she was born well, married
well, lived well, and died well; since she was born in Shadwell, married to Cresswell, lived
in Camberwell, and died in Bridewell.' Here ended the oration, and with it Sedley's ambitious
hopes of overreaching Buckingham--ha, ha, ha!--And now, Master Christian, what are your commands
for me to-day?"

"First, to thank your Grace for being so attentive as to send so formidable a person as Colonel
Blood, to wait upon your poor friend and servant. Faith, he took such an interest in my leaving
town, that he wanted to compel me to do it at point of fox, so I was obliged to spill a little
of his malapert blood. Your Grace's swordsmen have had ill luck of late; and it is hard, since
you always choose the best hands, and such scrupleless knaves too."

"Come now, Christian," said the Duke, "do not thus exult over me; a great man, if I may so
call myself, is never greater than amid miscarriage. I only played this little trick on you,
Christian, to impress on you a wholesome idea of the interest I take in your motions. The scoundrel's
having dared to draw upon you, is a thing not to be forgiven.--What! injure my old friend Christian?"

"And why not," said Christian coolly, "if your old friend was so stubborn as not to go out
of town, like a good boy, when your Grace required him to do so, for the civil purpose of entertaining
his niece in his absence?"

"How--what!--how do you mean by my entertaining your niece, Master Christian?" said the Duke.
"She was a personage far beyond my poor attentions, being destined, if I recollect aright,
to something like royal favour."

"It was her fate, however, to be the guest of your Grace's convent for a brace of days, or
so. Marry, my lord, the father confessor was not at home, and--for convents have been scaled
of late--returned not till the bird was flown."

"Christian, thou art an old reynard--I see there is no doubling with thee. It was thou, then,
that stole away my pretty prize, but left me something so much prettier in my mind, that, had
it not made itself wings to fly away with, I would have placed it in a cage of gold. Never
be downcast, man; I forgive thee--I forgive thee."

"Your Grace is of a most merciful disposition, especially considering it is I who have had
the wrong; and sages have said, that he who doth the injury is less apt to forgive than he
who only sustains it."

"True, true, Christian," said the Duke, "which, as you say, is something quite new, and places
my clemency in a striking point of view. Well, then, thou forgiven man, when shall I see my
Mauritanian Princess again?"

"Wherever I am certain that a quibble, and a carwhichit, for a play or a sermon, will not banish
her from your Grace's memory."

"Not all the wit of South, or of Etherege," said Buckingham hastily, "to say nothing of my
own, shall in future make me oblivious of what I owe the Morisco Princess."

"Yet, to leave the fair lady out of thought for a little while--a very little while," said
Christian, "since I swear that in due time your Grace shall see her, and know in her the most
extraordinary woman that the age has produced--to leave her, I say out of sight for a little
while, has your Grace had late notice of your Duchess's health?"

"Health," said the Duke. "Umph--no--nothing particular. She has been ill--but----"

"She is no longer so," subjoined Christian; "she died in Yorkshire forty-eight hours since."

"Thou must deal with the devil," said the Duke.

"It would ill become one of my name to do so," replied Christian. "But in the brief interval,
since your Grace hath known of an event which hath not yet reached the public ear, you have,
I believe, made proposals to the King for the hand of the Lady Anne, second daughter of the
Duke of York, and your Grace's proposals have been rejected."

"Fiends and firebrands, villain!" said the Duke, starting up and seizing Christian by the collar;
"who hath told thee that?"

"Take your hand from my cloak, my Lord Duke, and I may answer you," said Christian. "I have
a scurvy touch of old puritanical humour about me. I abide not the imposition of hands--take
off your grasp from my cloak, or I will find means to make you unloose it."

The Duke, who had kept his right hand on his dagger-hilt while he held Christian's collar with
his left, unloosed it as he spoke, but slowly, and as one who rather suspends than abandons
the execution of some hasty impulse; while Christian, adjusting his cloak with perfect composure,
said, "Soh--my cloak being at liberty, we speak on equal terms. I come not to insult your Grace,
but to offer you vengeance for the insult you have received."

"Vengeance!" said the Duke--"It is the dearest proffer man can present to me in my present
mood. I hunger for vengeance--thirst for vengeance--could die to ensure vengeance!---'Sdeath!"
he continued, walking up and down the large apartment with the most unrestrained and violent
agitation; "I have chased this repulse out of my brain with ten thousand trifles, because I
thought no one knew it. But it is known, and to thee, the very common-sewer of Court-secrets--the
honour of Villiers is in thy keeping, Ned Christian! Speak, thou man of wiles and of intrigue--on
whom dost thou promise the vengeance? Speak! and if thy answers meet my desires, I will make
a bargain with thee as willingly as with thy master, Satan himself."

"I will not be," said Christian, "so unreasonable in my terms as stories tell of the old apostate;
I will offer your Grace, as he might do, temporal prosperity and revenge, which is his frequent
recruiting money, but I leave it to yourself to provide, as you may be pleased, for your future
salvation."

The Duke, gazing upon him fixedly and sadly, replied, "I would to God, Christian, that I could
read what purpose of damnable villainy thou hast to propose to me in thy countenance, without
the necessity of thy using words!"

"Your Grace can but try a guess," said Christian, calmly smiling.

"No," replied the Duke, after gazing at him again for the space of a minute; "thou art so deeply
dyed a hypocrite, that thy mean features, and clear grey eye, are as likely to conceal treason,
as any petty scheme of theft or larceny more corresponding to your degree."

"Treason, my lord!" echoed Christian; "you may have guessed more nearly than you were aware
of. I honour your Grace's penetration."

"Treason?" echoed the Duke. "Who dare name such a crime to me?"

"If a name startles your Grace, you may call it vengeance--vengeance on the cabal of councillors,
who have ever countermined you, in spite of your wit and your interest with the King.--Vengeance
on Arlington, Ormond--on Charles himself."

"No, by Heaven," said the Duke, resuming his disordered walk through the apartment--"Vengeance
on these rats of the Privy Council,--come at it as you will. But the King!--never--never. I
have provoked him a hundred times, where he has stirred me once. I have crossed his path in
state intrigue--rivalled him in love--had the advantage in both,--and, d--n it, he has forgiven
me! If treason would put me in his throne, I have no apology for it--it were worse than bestial
ingratitude."

"Nobly spoken, my lord," said Christian; "and consistent alike with the obligations under which
your Grace lies to Charles Stewart, and the sense you have ever shown of them.--But it signifies
not. If your Grace patronise not our enterprise, there is Shaftesbury--there is Monmouth----"

"Scoundrel!" exclaimed the Duke, even more vehemently agitated than before, "think you that
you shall carry on with others an enterprise which I have refused?--No, by every heathen and
every Christian god!--Hark ye, Christian, I will arrest you on the spot--I will, by gods and
devils, and carry you to unravel your plot at Whitehall."

"Where the first words I speak," answered the imperturbable Christian, "will be to inform the
Privy Council in what place they may find certain letters, wherewith your Grace has honoured
your poor vassal, containing, as I think, particulars which his Majesty will read with more
surprise than pleasure."

"'Sdeath, villain!" said the Duke, once more laying his hand on his poniard-hilt, "thou hast
me again at advantage. I know not why I forbear to poniard you where you stand!"

"I might fall, my Lord Duke," said Christian, slightly colouring, and putting his right hand
into his bosom, "though not, I think, unavenged--for I have not put my person into this peril
altogether without means of defence. I might fall, but, alas! your Grace's correspondence is
in hands, which, by that very act, would be rendered sufficiently active in handing them to
the King and the Privy Council. What say you to the Moorish Princess, my Lord Duke? What if
I have left her executrix of my will, with certain instructions how to proceed if I return
not unharmed from York Place? Oh, my lord, though my head is in the wolf's mouth, I was not
goose enough to place it there without settling how many carabines should be fired on the wolf,
so soon as my dying cackle was heard.--Pshaw, my Lord Duke! you deal with a man of sense and
courage, yet you speak to him as a child and a coward."

The Duke threw himself into a chair, fixed his eyes on the ground, and spoke without raising
them. "I am about to call Jerningham," he said; "but fear nothing--it is only for a draught
of wine--That stuff on the table may be a vehicle of filberts, and walnuts, but not for such
communications as yours.--Bring me champagne," he said to the attendant who answered to his
summons.

The domestic returned, and brought a flask of champagne, with two large silver cups. One of
them he filled for Buckingham, who, contrary to the usual etiquette, was always served first
at home, and then offered the other to Christian, who declined to receive it.

The Duke drank off the large goblet which was presented to him, and for a moment covered his
forehead with the palm of his hand; then instantly withdrew it, and said, "Christian, speak
your errand plainly. We know each other. If my reputation be in some degree in your hands,
you are well aware that your life is in mine. Sit down," he said, taking a pistol from his
bosom and laying it on the table--"Sit down, and let me hear your proposal."

"My lord," said Christian, smiling, "I shall produce no such ultimate argument on my part,
though possibly, in time of need, I may not be found destitute of them. But my defence is in
the situation of things, and in the composed view which, doubtless, your Majesty will take
of them."

"Majesty!" repeated the Duke--"My good friend Christian, you have kept company with the Puritans
so long, that you confuse the ordinary titles of the Court."

"I know not how to apologise," said Christian, "unless your Grace will suppose that I spoke
by prophecy."

"Such as the devil delivered to Macbeth," said the Duke--again paced the chamber, and again
seated himself, and said, "Be plain, Christian--speak out at once, and manfully, what is it
you intend?"

"I," said Christian--"What should I do?--I can do nothing in such a matter; but I thought it
right that your Grace should know that the godly of this city"--(he spoke the word with a kind
of ironical grin)--"are impatient of inactivity, and must needs be up and doing. My brother
Bridgenorth is at the head of all old Weiver's congregation; for you must know, that, after
floundering from one faith to another, he hath now got beyond ordinances, and is become a Fifth-Monarchy
man. He has nigh two hundred of Weiver's people, fully equipped, and ready to fall on; and,
with slight aid from your Grace's people, they must carry Whitehall, and make prisoners of
all within it."

"Rascal!" said the Duke, "and is it to a Peer of England you make this communication?"

"Nay," answered Christian, "I admit it would be extreme folly in your Grace to appear until
all is over. But let me give Blood and the others a hint on your part. There are the four Germans
also--right Knipperdolings and Anabaptists--will be specially useful. You are wise, my lord,
and know the value of a corps of domestic gladiators, as well as did Octavius, Lepidus, and
Anthony, when, by such family forces, they divided the world by indenture tripartite."

"Stay, stay," said the Duke. "Even if these bloodhounds were to join with you--not that I would
permit it without the most positive assurances for the King's personal safety--but say the
villains were to join, what hope have you of carrying the Court?"

"Bully Tom Armstrong,[*] my lord, hath promised his interest with the Life Guards. Then there
are my Lord Shaftesbury's brisk boys in the city--thirty thousand on the holding up a finger."

[*] Thomas, or Sir Thomas Armstrong, a person who had distinguished
    himself in youth by duels and drunken exploits. He was
    particularly connected with the Duke of Monmouth, and was said to
    be concerned in the Rye-House Plot, for which he suffered capital
    punishment, 20th June 1684.

"Let him hold up both hands, and if he count a hundred for each finger," said the Duke, "it
will be more than I expect. You have not spoken to him?"

"Surely not till your Grace's pleasure was known. But, if he is not applied to, there is the
Dutch train, Hans Snorehout's congregation, in the Strand--there are the French Protestants
in Piccadilly--there are the family of Levi in Lewkenor's Lane--the Muggletonians in Thames
Street----"

"Ah, faugh!--Out upon them--out upon them!--How the knaves will stink of cheese and tobacco
when they come upon action!--they will drown all the perfumes in Whitehall. Spare me the detail;
and let me know, my dearest Ned, the sum total of thy most odoriferous forces."

"Fifteen hundred men, well armed," said Christian, "besides the rabble that will rise to a
certainty--they have already nearly torn to pieces the prisoners who were this day acquitted
on account of the Plot."

"All, then, I understand.--And now, hark ye, most Christian Christian," said he, wheeling his
chair full in front of that on which his agent was seated, "you have told me many things to-day--Shall
I be equally communicative? Shall I show you that my accuracy of information matches yours?
Shall I tell you, in a word, why you have at once resolved to push every one, from the Puritan
to the free-thinker, upon a general attack of the Palace of Whitehall, without allowing me,
a peer of the realm, time either to pause upon or to prepare for a step so desperate? Shall
I tell you why you would lead or drive, seduce or compel me, into countenancing your measures?"

"My lord, if you please to form a guess," said Christian, "I will answer with all sincerity,
if you have assigned the right cause."

"The Countess of Derby is this day arrived, and attends the Court this evening, with hopes
of the kindest reception. She may be surprised amid the mêlée?--Ha! said I not right, Master
Christian? You, who pretend to offer me revenge, know yourself its exquisite sweetness."

"I would not presume," said Christian, half smiling, "to offer your Grace a dish without acting
as your taster as well as purveyor."

"That's honestly said," said the Duke. "Away then, my friend. Give Blood this ring--he knows
it, and knows how to obey him who bears it. Let him assemble my gladiators, as thou dost most
wittily term my coup jarrets. The old scheme of the German music may be resorted to, for I
think thou hast the instruments ready. But take notice, I know nothing on't; and Rowley's person
must be safe--I will hang and burn on all hands if a hair of his black periwig[*] be but singed.--Then
what is to follow--a Lord Protector of the realm--or stay--Cromwell has made the word somewhat
slovenly and unpopular--a Lord Lieutenant of the Kingdom?--The patriots who take it on themselves
to avenge the injustice done to the country, and to remove evil counsellors from before the
King's throne, that it may be henceforward established in righteousness--so I think the rubric
runs--cannot fail to make a fitting choice."

[*] Charles, to suit his dark complexion, always wore a black peruke.
    He used to say of the players, that if they wished to represent a
    villain on the stage, "Oddsfish, they always clapp'd on him a
    black periwig, whereas the greatest rogue in England [meaning,
    probably, Dr. Oates] wears a white one."--See CIBBER's Apology.

"They cannot, my Lord Duke," said Christian, "since there is but one man in the three kingdoms
on whom that choice can possibly fall."

"I thank you Christian," said his Grace; "and I trust you. Away, and make all ready. Be assured
your services shall not be forgot. We will have you near to us."

"My Lord Duke," said Christian, "you bind me doubly to you. But remember that as your Grace
is spared any obnoxious proceedings which may befall in the way of military execution, or otherwise,
so it will be advisable that you hold yourself in preparation, upon a moment's notice, to put
yourself at the head of a band of honourable friends and allies, and come presently to the
palace, where you will be received by the victors as a commander, and by the vanquished as
a preserver."

"I conceive you--I conceive you. I will be in prompt readiness," said the Duke.

"Ay, my lord," continued Christian; "and for Heaven's sake, let none of those toys, which are
the very Delilahs of your imagination, come across your Grace this evening, and interfere with
the execution of this sublime scheme."

"Why, Christian, dost think me mad?" was his Grace's emphatic reply. "It is you who linger,
when all should be ordered for a deed so daring. Go then.--But hark ye, Ned; ere you go, tell
me when I shall again see yonder thing of fire and air--yon Eastern Peri, that glides into
apartments by the keyhole, and leaves them through the casement--yon black-eyed houri of the
Mahometan paradise--when, I say, shall I see her once more?"

"When your Grace has the truncheon of Lord Lieutenant of the Kingdom," said Christian, and
left the apartment.

Buckingham stood fixed in contemplation for a moment after he was gone. "Should I have done
this?" he said, arguing the matter with himself; "or had I the choice rather of doing aught
else? Should I not hasten to the Court, and make Charles aware of the treason which besets
him? I will, by Heaven?--Here, Jerningham, my coach, with the despatch of light!--I will throw
myself at his feet, and tell him of all the follies which I have dreamed of with this Christian.--And
then he will laugh at me, and spurn me.--No, I have kneeled to him to-day already, and my repulse
was nothing gentle. To be spurned once in the sun's daily round is enough for Buckingham."

Having made this reflection, he seated himself, and began hastily to mark down the young nobles
and gentlemen of quality, and others, their very ignoble companions, who he supposed might
be likely to assume him for their leader in any popular disturbance. He had nearly completed
it, when Jerningham entered, to say the coach would be ready in an instant, and to bring his
master's sword, hat, and cloak.

"Let the coachman draw off," said the Duke, "but be in readiness. And send to the gentlemen
thou wilt find named in this list; say I am but ill at ease, and wish their company to a light
collation. Let instant expedition be made, and care not for expense; you will find most of
them at the Club House in Fuller's Rents."[*]

[*] The place of meeting of the Green Ribbon Club. "Their place of
    meeting," says Roger North, "was in a sort of Carrefour at
    Chancery Lance, in a centre of business and company most proper
    for such anglers of fools.

The preparations for festivity were speedily made, and the intended guests, most of them persons
who were at leisure for any call that promised pleasure, though sometimes more deaf to those
of duty, began speedily to assemble. There were many youths of the highest rank, and with them,
as is usual in those circles, many of a different class, whom talents, or impudence, or wit,
or a turn for gambling, had reared up into companions for the great and the gay. The Duke of
Buckingham was a general patron of persons of this description; and a numerous attendance took
place on the present occasion.

The festivity was pursued with the usual appliances of wine, music, and games of hazard; with
which, however, there mingled in that period much more wit, and a good deal more gross profligacy
of conversation, than the talents of the present generation can supply, or their taste would
permit.

The Duke himself proved the complete command which he possessed over his versatile character,
by maintaining the frolic, the laugh, and the jest, while his ear caught up, and with eagerness,
the most distant sounds, as intimating the commencement of Christian's revolutionary project.
Such sounds were heard from time to time, and from time to time they died away, without any
of those consequences which Buckingham expected.

At length, and when it was late in the evening, Jerningham announced Master Chiffinch from
the Court; and that worthy personage followed the annunciation.

"Strange things have happened, my Lord Duke," he said; "your presence at Court is instantly
required by his Majesty."

"You alarm me," said Buckingham, standing up. "I hope nothing has happened--I hope there is
nothing wrong--I hope his Majesty is well?"

"Perfectly well," said Chiffinch; "and desirous to see your Grace without a moment's delay."

"This is sudden," said the Duke. "You see I have had merry fellows about me, and am scarce
in case to appear, Chiffinch."

"Your Grace seems to be in very handsome plight," said Chiffinch; "and you know his Majesty
is gracious enough to make allowances."

"True," said the Duke, not a little anxious in his mind, touching the cause of this unexpected
summons--"True--his Majesty is most gracious--I will order my coach."

"Mine is below," replied the royal messenger; "it will save time, if your Grace will condescend
to use it."

Forced from every evasion, Buckingham took a goblet from the table, and requested his friends
to remain at his palace so long as they could find the means of amusement there. He expected,
he said, to return almost immediately; if not, he would take farewell of them with his usual
toast, "May all of us that are not hanged in the interval, meet together again here on the
first Monday of next month."

This standing toast of the Duke bore reference to the character of several of his guests; but
he did not drink it on the present occasion without some anticipation concerning his own fate,
in case Christian had betrayed him. He hastily made some addition to his dress, and attended
Chiffinch in the chariot to Whitehall.

CHAPTER XLV

           High feasting was there there--the gilded roofs
           Rung to the wassail-health--the dancer's step
           Sprung to the chord responsive--the gay gamester
           To fate's disposal flung his heap of gold,
           And laugh'd alike when it increased or lessen'd:
           Such virtue hath court-air to teach us patience
           Which schoolmen preach in vain.
                                       --WHY COME YE NOT TO COURT?

Upon the afternoon of this eventful day, Charles held his Court in the Queen's apartments,
which were opened at a particular hour to invited guests of a certain lower degree, but accessible
without restriction to the higher classes of nobility who had from birth, and to the courtiers
who held by office the privilege of the entrée.

It was one part of Charles's character, which unquestionably rendered him personally popular,
and postponed to a subsequent reign the precipitation of his family from the throne, that he
banished from his Court many of the formal restrictions with which it was in other reigns surrounded.
He was conscious of the good-natured grace of his manners, and trusted to it, often not in
vain, to remove evil impressions arising from actions, which he was sensible could not be justified
on the grounds of liberal or national policy.

In the daytime the King was commonly seen in the public walks alone, or only attended by one
or two persons; and his answer to the remonstrance of his brother, on the risk of thus exposing
his person, is well known:--"Believe me, James," he said, "no one will murder me, to make you
King."

In the same manner, Charles's evenings, unless such as were destined to more secret pleasures,
were frequently spent amongst all who had any pretence to approach a courtly circle; and thus
it was upon the night which we are treating of. Queen Catherine, reconciled or humbled to her
fate, had long ceased to express any feelings of jealousy, nay, seemed so absolutely dead to
such a passion, that she received at her drawing-room, without scruple, and even with encouragement,
the Duchesses of Portsmouth and Cleveland, and others, who enjoyed, though in a less avowed
character, the credit of having been royal favourites. Constraint of every kind was banished
from a circle so composed, and which was frequented at the same time, if not by the wisest,
at least by the wittiest courtiers, who ever assembled round a monarch, and who, as many of
them had shared the wants, and shifts, and frolics of his exile, had then acquired a sort of
prescriptive licence, which the good-natured prince, when he attained his period of prosperity,
could hardly have restrained had it suited his temper to do so. This, however, was the least
of Charles's thoughts. His manners were such as secured him from indelicate obtrusion; and
he sought no other protection from over-familiarity, than what these and his ready wit afforded
him.

On the present occasion, he was peculiarly disposed to enjoy the scene of pleasure which had
been prepared. The singular death of Major Coleby, which, taking place in his own presence,
had proclaimed, with the voice of a passing bell, the ungrateful neglect of the Prince for
whom he had sacrificed everything, had given Charles much pain. But, in his own opinion at
least, he had completely atoned for this negligence by the trouble which he had taken for Sir
Geoffrey Peveril and his son, whose liberation he looked upon not only as an excellent good
deed in itself, but, in spite of the grave rebuke of Ormond, as achieved in a very pardonable
manner, considering the difficulties with which he was surrounded. He even felt a degree of
satisfaction on receiving intelligence from the city that there had been disturbances in the
streets, and that some of the more violent fanatics had betaken themselves to their meeting-houses,
upon sudden summons, to inquire, as their preachers phrased it, into the causes of Heaven's
wrath, and into the backsliding of the Court, lawyers, and jury, by whom the false and bloody
favourers of the Popish Plot were screened and cloaked from deserved punishment.

The King, we repeat, seemed to hear these accounts with pleasure, even when he was reminded
of the dangerous and susceptible character of those with whom such suspicions originated. "Will
any one now assert," he said, with self-complacence, "that I am so utterly negligent of the
interest of friends?--You see the peril in which I place myself, and even the risk to which
I have exposed the public peace, to rescue a man whom I have scarce seen for twenty years,
and then only in his buff-coat and bandoleers, with other Train-Band officers who kissed hands
upon the Restoration. They say Kings have long hands--I think they have as much occasion for
long memories, since they are expected to watch over and reward every man in England, who hath
but shown his goodwill by crying 'God save the King!'"

"Nay, the rogues are even more unreasonable still," said Sedley; "for every knave of them thinks
himself entitled to your Majesty's protection in a good cause, whether he has cried God save
the King or no."

The King smiled, and turned to another part of the stately hall, where everything was assembled
which could, according to the taste of the age, make the time glide pleasantly away.

In one place, a group of the young nobility, and of the ladies of the Court, listened to the
reader's acquaintance Empson, who was accompanying with his unrivalled breathings on the flute,
a young siren, who, while her bosom palpitated with pride and with fear, warbled to the courtly
and august presence the beautiful air beginning--

 "Young I am, and yet unskill'd,
  How to make a lover yield," &c.

She performed her task in a manner so corresponding with the strains of the amatory poet, and
the voluptuous air with which the words had been invested by the celebrated Purcel, that the
men crowded around in ecstasies, while most of the ladies thought it proper either to look
extremely indifferent to the words she sung, or to withdraw from the circle as quietly as possible.
To the song succeeded a concerto, performed by a select band of most admirable musicians, which
the King, whose taste was indisputable, had himself selected.

At other tables in the apartment, the elder courtiers worshipped Fortune, at the various fashionable
games of ombre, quadrille, hazard, and the like; while heaps of gold which lay before the players,
augmented or dwindled with every turn of a card or cast of a die. Many a year's rent of fair
estates was ventured upon the main or the odds; which, spent in the old deserted manor-house,
had repaired the ravages of Cromwell upon its walls, and replaced the sources of good housekeeping
and hospitality, that, exhausted in the last age by fine and sequestration, were now in a fair
way of being annihilated by careless prodigality. Elsewhere, under cover of observing the gamester,
or listening to the music, the gallantries of that all-licensed age were practised among the
gay and fair, closely watched the whilst by the ugly or the old, who promised themselves at
least the pleasure of observing, and it may be that of proclaiming, intrigues in which they
could not be sharers.

From one table to another glided the merry Monarch, exchanging now a glance with a Court beauty,
now a jest with a Court wit, now beating time to the music, and anon losing or winning a few
pieces of gold on the chance of the game to which he stood nearest;--the most amiable of voluptuaries--the
gayest and best-natured of companions--the man that would, of all others, have best sustained
his character, had life been a continued banquet, and its only end to enjoy the passing hour,
and send it away as pleasantly as might be.

But Kings are least of all exempted from the ordinary lot of humanity; and Seged of Ethiopia
is, amongst monarchs, no solitary example of the vanity of reckoning on a day or an hour of
undisturbed serenity. An attendant on the Court announced suddenly to their Majesties that
a lady, who would only announce herself as a Peeress of England, desired to be admitted into
the presence.

The Queen said, hastily, it was impossible. No peeress, without announcing her title, was entitled
to the privilege of her rank.

"I could be sworn," said a nobleman in attendance, "that it is some whim of the Duchess of
Newcastle."

The attendant who brought the message, said that he did indeed believe it to be the Duchess,
both from the singularity of the message, and that the lady spoke with somewhat a foreign accent.

"In the name of madness, then," said the King, "let us admit her. Her Grace is an entire raree-show
in her own person--a universal masquerade--indeed a sort of private Bedlam-hospital, her whole
ideas being like so many patients crazed upon the subjects of love and literature, who act
nothing in their vagaries, save Minerva, Venus, and the nine Muses."

"Your Majesty's pleasure must always supersede mine," said the Queen. "I only hope I shall
not be expected to entertain so fantastic a personage. The last time she came to Court, Isabella"--(she
spoke to one of her Portuguese ladies of honour)--"you had not returned from our lovely Lisbon!--her
Grace had the assurance to assume a right to bring a train-bearer into my apartment; and when
this was not allowed, what then, think you, she did?--even caused her train to be made so long,
that three mortal yards of satin and silver remained in the antechamber, supported by four
wenches, while the other end was attached to her Grace's person, as she paid her duty at the
upper end of the presence-room. Full thirty yards of the most beautiful silk did her Grace's
madness employ in this manner."

"And most beautiful damsels they were who bore this portentous train," said the King--"a train
never equalled save by that of the great comet in sixty-six. Sedley and Etherege told us wonders
of them; for it is one advantage of this new fashion brought up by the Duchess, that a matron
may be totally unconscious of the coquetry of her train and its attendants."

"Am I to understand, then, your Majesty's pleasure is, that the lady is to be admitted?" said
the usher.

"Certainly," said the King; "that is, if the incognita be really entitled to the honour.--It
may be as well to inquire her title--there are more madwomen abroad than the Duchess of Newcastle.
I will walk into the anteroom myself, and receive your answer."

But ere Charles had reached the lower end of the apartment in his progress to the anteroom,
the usher surprised the assembly by announcing a name which had not for many a year been heard
in these courtly halls--"the Countess of Derby!"

Stately and tall, and still, at an advanced period of life, having a person unbroken by years,
the noble lady advanced towards her Sovereign, with a step resembling that with which she might
have met an equal. There was indeed nothing in her manner that indicated either haughtiness
or assumption unbecoming that presence; but her consciousness of wrongs, sustained from the
administration of Charles, and of the superiority of the injured party over those from whom,
or in whose name, the injury had been offered, gave her look dignity, and her step firmness.
She was dressed in widow's weeds, of the same fashion which were worn at the time her husband
was brought to the scaffold; and which, in the thirty years subsequent to that event, she had
never permitted her tirewoman to alter.

The surprise was no pleasing one to the King; and cursing in his heart the rashness which had
allowed the lady entrance on the gay scene in which they were engaged, he saw at the same time
the necessity of receiving her in a manner suitable to his own character, and her rank in the
British Court. He approached her with an air of welcome, into which he threw all his natural
grace, while he began, "Chère Comtesse de Derby, puissante Reine de Man, notre très auguste
sur----"

"Speak English, sire, if I may presume to ask such a favour," said the Countess. "I am a Peeress
of this nation--mother to one English Earl, and widow, alas, to another! In England I have
spent my brief days of happiness, my long years of widowhood and sorrow. France and its language
are but to me the dreams of an uninteresting childhood. I know no tongue save that of my husband
and my son. Permit me, as the widow and mother of Derby, thus to render my homage."

She would have kneeled, but the King gracefully prevented her, and, saluting her cheek, according
to the form, led her towards the Queen, and himself performed the ceremony of introduction.
"Your Majesty," he said, "must be informed that the Countess has imposed a restriction on French--the
language of gallantry and compliment. I trust your Majesty will, though a foreigner, like herself,
find enough of honest English to assure the Countess of Derby with what pleasure we see her
at Court, after the absence of so many years."

"I will endeavour to do so, at least," said the Queen, on whom the appearance of the Countess
of Derby made a more favourable impression than that of many strangers, whom, at the King's
request, she was in the habit of receiving with courtesy.

Charles himself again spoke. "To any other lady of the same rank I might put the question,
why she was so long absent from the circle? I fear I can only ask the Countess of Derby, what
fortunate cause produces the pleasure of seeing her here?"

"No fortunate cause, my liege, though one most strong and urgent."

The King augured nothing agreeable from this commencement; and in truth, from the Countess's
first entrance, he had anticipated some unpleasant explanation, which he therefore hastened
to parry, having first composed his features into an expression of sympathy and interest.

"If," said he, "the cause is of a nature in which we can render assistance, we cannot expect
your ladyship should enter upon it at the present time; but a memorial addressed to our secretary,
or, if it is more satisfactory, to ourselves directly, will receive our immediate, and I trust
I need not add, our favourable construction."

The Countess bowed with some state, and answered, "My business, sire, is indeed important;
but so brief, that it need not for more than a few minutes withdraw your ear from what is more
pleasing;--yet it is so urgent, that I am afraid to postpone it even for a moment."

"This is unusual," said Charles. "But you, Countess of Derby, are an unwonted guest, and must
command my time. Does the matter require my private ear?"

"For my part," said the Countess, "the whole Court might listen; but you Majesty may prefer
hearing me in the presence of one or two of your counsellors."

"Ormond," said the King, looking around, "attend us for an instant--and do you, Arlington,
do the same."

The King led the way into an adjoining cabinet, and, seating himself, requested the Countess
would also take a chair. "It needs not, sire," she replied; then pausing for a moment, as if
to collect her spirits, she proceeded with firmness.

"Your Majesty well said that no light cause had drawn me from my lonely habitation. I came
not hither when the property of my son--that property which descended to him from a father
who died for your Majesty's rights--was conjured away from him under pretext of justice, that
it might first feed the avarice of the rebel Fairfax, and then supply the prodigality of his
son-in-law, Buckingham."

"These are over harsh terms, lady," said the King. "A legal penalty was, as we remember, incurred
by an act of irregular violence--so our courts and our laws term it, though personally I have
no objection to call it, with you, an honourable revenge. But admit it were such, in prosecution
of the laws of honour, bitter legal consequences are often necessarily incurred."

"I come not to argue for my son's wasted and forfeited inheritance, sire," said the Countess;
"I only take credit for my patience, under that afflicting dispensation. I now come to redeem
the honour of the House of Derby, more dear to me than all the treasures and lands which ever
belonged to it."

"And by whom is the honour of the House of Derby impeached?" said the King; "for on my word
you bring me the first news of it."

"Has there one Narrative, as these wild fictions are termed, been printed with regard to the
Popish Plot--this pretended Plot as I will call it--in which the honour of our house has not
been touched and tainted? And are there not two noble gentlemen, father and son, allies of
the House of Stanley, about to be placed in jeopardy of their lives, on account of matters
in which we are the parties first impeached?"

The King looked around, and smiled to Arlington and Ormond. "The Countess's courage, methinks,
shames ours. What lips dared have called the immaculate Plot pretended, or the Narrative of
the witnesses, our preservers from Popish knives, a wild fiction?--But, madam," he said, "though
I admire the generosity of your interference in behalf of the two Peverils, I must acquaint
you, that your interference is unnecessary--they are this morning acquitted."

"Now may God be praised!" said the Countess, folding her hands. "I have scarce slept since
I heard the news of their impeachment; and have arrived here to surrender myself to your Majesty's
justice, or to the prejudices of the nation, in hopes, by so doing, I might at least save the
lives of my noble and generous friends, enveloped in suspicion only, or chiefly, by their connection
with us.--Are they indeed acquitted?"

"They are, by my honour," said the King. "I marvel you heard it not."

"I arrived but last night, and remained in the strictest seclusion," said the Countess, "afraid
to make any inquiries that might occasion discovery ere I saw your Majesty."

"And now that we have met," said the King, taking her hand kindly--"a meeting which gives me
the greatest pleasure--may I recommend to you speedily to return to your royal island with
as little éclat as you came thither? The world, my dear Countess, has changed since we were
young. Men fought in the Civil War with good swords and muskets; but now we fight with indictments
and oaths, and such like legal weapons. You are no adept in such warfare; and though I am well
aware you know how to hold out a castle, I doubt much if you have the art to parry off an impeachment.
This Plot has come upon us like a land storm--there is no steering the vessel in the teeth
of the tempest--we must run for the nearest haven, and happy if we can reach one."

"This is cowardice, my liege," said the Countess--"Forgive the word!--it is but a woman who
speaks it. Call your noble friends around you, and make a stand like your royal father. There
is but one right and one wrong--one honourable and forward course; and all others which deviate
are oblique and unworthy."

"Your language, my venerated friend," said Ormond, who saw the necessity of interfering betwixt
the dignity of the actual Sovereign and the freedom of the Countess, who was generally accustomed
to receive, not to pay observance,--"your language is strong and decided, but it applies not
to the times. It might occasion a renewal of the Civil War, and of all its miseries, but could
hardly be attended with the effects you sanguinely anticipate."

"You are too rash, my Lady Countess," said Arlington, "not only to rush upon this danger yourself,
but to desire to involve his Majesty. Let me say plainly, that, in this jealous time, you have
done but ill to exchange the security of Castle Rushin for the chance of a lodging in the Tower
of London."

"And were I to kiss the block there," said the Countess, "as did my husband at Bolton-on-the-Moors,
I would do so willingly, rather than forsake a friend!--and one, too, whom, as in the case
of the younger Peveril, I have thrust upon danger."

"But have I not assured you that both of the Peverils, elder and younger, are freed from peril?"
said the King; "and, my dear Countess, what can else tempt you to thrust yourself on danger,
from which, doubtless, you expect to be relieved by my intervention? Methinks a lady of your
judgment should not voluntarily throw herself into a river, merely that her friends might have
the risk and merit of dragging her out."

The Countess reiterated her intention to claim a fair trial.--The two counsellors again pressed
their advice that she should withdraw, though under the charge of absconding from justice,
and remain in her own feudal kingdom.

The King, seeing no termination to the debate, gently reminded the Countess that her Majesty
would be jealous if he detained her ladyship longer, and offered her his hand to conduct her
back to the company. This she was under the necessity of accepting, and returned accordingly
to the apartments of state, where an event occurred immediately afterwards, which must be transferred
to the next chapter.

CHAPTER XLVI

              Here stand I tight and trim,
              Quick of eye, though little of limb;
              He who denieth the word I have spoken,
              Betwixt him and me shall lances be broken.
                            --LAY OF THE LITTLE JOHN DE SAINTRE.

When Charles had reconducted the Countess of Derby into the presence-chamber, before he parted
with her, he entreated her, in a whisper, to be governed by good counsel, and to regard her
own safety; and then turned easily from her, as if to distribute his attentions equally among
the other guests.

These were a good deal circumscribed at the instant, by the arrival of a party of five or six
musicians; one of whom, a German, under the patronage of the Duke of Buckingham, was particularly
renowned for his performance on the violoncello, but had been detained in inactivity in the
antechamber by the non-arrival of his instrument, which had now at length made its appearance.

The domestic who placed it before the owner, shrouded as it was within its wooden case, seemed
heartily glad to be rid of his load, and lingered for a moment, as if interested in discovering
what sort of instrument was to be produced that could weigh so heavily. His curiosity was satisfied,
and in a most extraordinary manner; for, while the musician was fumbling with the key, the
case being for his greater convenience placed upright against the wall, the case and instrument
itself at once flew open, and out started the dwarf, Geoffrey Hudson,--at sight of whose unearthly
appearance, thus suddenly introduced, the ladies shrieked, and ran backwards; the gentlemen
started, and the poor German, on seeing the portentous delivery of his fiddle-case, tumbled
on the floor in an agony, supposing, it might be, that his instrument was metamorphosed into
the strange figure which supplied its place. So soon, however, as he recovered, he glided out
of the apartment, and was followed by most of his companions.

"Hudson!" said the King--"My little old friend, I am not sorry to see you; though Buckingham,
who I suppose is the purveyor of this jest, hath served us up but a stale one."

"Will your Majesty honour me with one moment's attention?" said Hudson.

"Assuredly, my good friend," said the King. "Old acquaintances are springing up in every quarter
to-night; and our leisure can hardly be better employed than in listening to them.--It was
an idle trick of Buckingham," he added, in a whisper to Ormond, "to send the poor thing hither,
especially as he was to-day tried for the affair of the plot. At any rate he comes not to ask
protection from us, having had the rare fortune to come off Plot-free. He is but fishing, I
suppose, for some little present or pension."

The little man, precise in Court etiquette, yet impatient of the King's delaying to attend
to him, stood in the midst of the floor, most valorously pawing and prancing, like a Scots
pony assuming the airs of a war-horse, waving meanwhile his little hat with the tarnished feather,
and bowing from time to time, as if impatient to be heard.

"Speak on, then, my friend," said Charles; "if thou hast some poetical address penned for thee,
out with it, that thou mayst have time to repose these flourishing little limbs of thine."

"No poetical speech have I, most mighty Sovereign," answered the dwarf; "but, in plain and
most loyal prose, I do accuse, before this company, the once noble Duke of Buckingham of high
treason!"

"Well spoken, and manfully--Get on, man," said the King, who never doubted that this was the
introduction to something burlesque or witty, not conceiving that the charge was made in solemn
earnest.

A great laugh took place among such courtiers as heard, and among many who did not hear, what
was uttered by the dwarf; the former entertained by the extravagant emphasis and gesticulation
of the little champion, and the others laughing not the less loud that they laughed for example's
sake, and upon trust.

"What matter is there for all this mirth?" said he, very indignantly--"Is it fit subject for
laughing, that I, Geoffrey Hudson, Knight, do, before King and nobles, impeach George Villiers,
Duke of Buckingham, of high treason?"

"No subject of mirth, certainly," said Charles, composing his features; "but great matter of
wonder.--Come, cease this mouthing, and prancing, and mummery.--If there be a jest, come out
with it, man; and if not, even get thee to the beaffet, and drink a cup of wine to refresh
thee after thy close lodging."

"I tell you, my liege," said Hudson impatiently, yet in a whisper, intended only to be audible
by the King, "that if you spend overmuch time in trifling, you will be convinced by dire experience
of Buckingham's treason. I tell you,--I asseverate to your Majesty,--two hundred armed fanatics
will be here within the hour, to surprise the guards."

"Stand back, ladies," said the King, "or you may hear more than you will care to listen to.
My Lord of Buckingham's jests are not always, you know, quite fitted for female ears; besides,
we want a few words in private with our little friend. You, my Lord of Ormond--you, Arlington"
(and he named one or two others), "may remain with us."

The gay crowd bore back, and dispersed through the apartment--the men to conjecture what the
end of this mummery, as they supposed it, was likely to prove; and what jest, as Sedley said,
the bass-fiddle had been brought to bed of--and the ladies to admire and criticise the antique
dress, and richly embroidered ruff and hood of the Countess of Derby, to whom the Queen was
showing particular attention.

"And now, in the name of Heaven, and amongst friends," said the King to the dwarf, "what means
all this?"

"Treason, my lord the King!--Treason to his Majesty of England!--When I was chambered in yonder
instrument, my lord, the High-Dutch fellows who bore me, carried me into a certain chapel,
to see, as they said to each other, that all was ready. Sire, I went where bass-fiddle never
went before, even into a conventicle of Fifth-Monarchists; and when they brought me away, the
preacher was concluding his sermon, and was within a 'Now to apply' of setting off like the
bell-wether at the head of his flock, to surprise your Majesty in your royal Court! I heard
him through the sound-holes of my instrument, when the fellow set me down for a moment to profit
by this precious doctrine."

"It would be singular," said Lord Arlington, "were there some reality at the bottom of this
buffoonery; for we know these wild men have been consulting together to-day, and five conventicles
have held a solemn fast."

"Nay," said the King, "if that be the case, they are certainly determined on some villainy."

"Might I advise," said the Duke of Ormond, "I would summon the Duke of Buckingham to this presence.
His connections with the fanatics are well known, though he affects to conceal them."

"You would not, my lord, do his Grace the injustice to treat him as a criminal on such a charge
as this?" said the King. "However," he added, after a moment's consideration, "Buckingham is
accessible to every sort of temptation, from the flightiness of his genius. I should not be
surprised if he nourished hopes of an aspiring kind--I think we had some proof of it lately.--Hark
ye, Chiffinch; go to him instantly, and bring him here on any fair pretext thou canst devise.
I would fain save him from what lawyers call an overt act. The Court would be dull as a dead
horse were Buckingham to miscarry."

"Will not your Majesty order the Horse Guards to turn out?" said young Selby, who was present,
and an officer.

"No, Selby," said the King, "I like not horse-play. But let them be prepared; and let the High
Bailiff collect his civil officers, and command the Sheriffs to summon their worshipful attendants
from javelin-men to hangmen, and have them in readiness, in case of any sudden tumult--double
the sentinels on the doors of the palace--and see no strangers get in."

"Or out," said the Duke of Ormond. "Where are the foreign fellows who brought in the dwarf?"

They were sought for, but they were not to be found. They had retreated, leaving their instruments--a
circumstance which seemed to bear hard on the Duke of Buckingham, their patron.

Hasty preparations were made to provide resistance to any effort of despair which the supposed
conspirators might be driven to; and in the meanwhile, the King, withdrawing with Arlington,
Ormond, and a few other counsellors, into the cabinet where the Countess of Derby had had her
audience, resumed the examination of the little discoverer. His declaration, though singular,
was quite coherent; the strain of romance intermingled with it, being in fact a part of his
character, which often gained him the fate of being laughed at, when he would otherwise have
been pitied, or even esteemed.

He commenced with a flourish about his sufferings for the Plot, which the impatience of Ormond
would have cut short, had not the King reminded his Grace, that a top, when it is not flogged,
must needs go down of itself at the end of a definite time, while the application of the whip
may keep it up for hours.

Geoffrey Hudson was, therefore, allowed to exhaust himself on the subject of his prison-house,
which he informed the King was not without a beam of light--an emanation of loveliness--a mortal
angel--quick of step and beautiful of eye, who had more than once visited his confinement with
words of cheering and comfort.

"By my faith," said the King, "they fare better in Newgate than I was aware of. Who would have
thought of the little gentleman being solaced with female society in such a place?"

"I pray your Majesty," said the dwarf, after the manner of a solemn protest, "to understand
nothing amiss. My devotion to this fair creature is rather like what we poor Catholics pay
to the blessed saints, than mixed with any grosser quality. Indeed, she seems rather a sylphid
of the Rosicrucian system, than aught more carnal; being slighter, lighter, and less than the
females of common life, who have something of that coarseness of make which is doubtless derived
from the sinful and gigantic race of the antediluvians."

"Well, say on, man," quoth Charles. "Didst thou not discover this sylph to be a mere mortal
wench after all?"

"Who?--I, my liege?--Oh, fie!"

"Nay, little gentleman, do not be so particularly scandalised," said the King; "I promise you
I suspect you of no audacity of gallantry."

"Time wears fast," said the Duke of Ormond impatiently, and looking at his watch. "Chiffinch
hath been gone ten minutes, and ten minutes will bring him back."

"True," said Charles gravely. "Come to the point, Hudson; and tell us what this female has
to do with your coming hither in this extraordinary manner."

"Everything, my lord," said little Hudson. "I saw her twice during my confinement in Newgate,
and, in my thought, she is the very angel who guards my life and welfare; for, after my acquittal,
as I walked towards the city with two tall gentlemen, who had been in trouble along with me,
and just while we stood to our defence against a rascally mob, and just as I had taken possession
of an elevated situation, to have some vantage against the great odds of numbers, I heard a
heavenly voice sound, as it were, from a window behind me, counselling me to take refuge in
a certain house; to which measure I readily persuaded my gallant friends the Peverils, who
have always shown themselves willing to be counselled by me."

"Showing therein their wisdom at once and modesty," said the King. "But what chanced next?
Be brief--be like thyself, man."

"For a time, sire," said the dwarf, "it seemed as if I were not the principal object of attention.
First, the younger Peveril was withdrawn from us by a gentleman of venerable appearance, though
something smacking of a Puritan, having boots of neat's leather, and wearing his weapon without
a sword-knot. When Master Julian returned, he informed us, for the first time, that we were
in the power of a body of armed fanatics who were, as the poet says, prompt for direful act.
And your Majesty will remark, that both father and son were in some measure desperate, and
disregardful from that moment of the assurances which I gave them, that the star which I was
bound to worship, would, in her own time, shine forth in signal of our safety. May it please
your Majesty, in answer to my hilarious exhortations to confidence, the father did but say
tush, and the son pshaw, which showed how men's prudence and manners are disturbed by affliction.
Nevertheless, these two gentlemen, the Peverils, forming a strong opinion of the necessity
there was to break forth, were it only to convey a knowledge of these dangerous passages to
your Majesty, commenced an assault on the door of the apartment, I also assisting with the
strength which Heaven hath given, and some threescore years have left me. We could not, as
it unhappily proved, manage our attempt so silently, but that our guards overheard us, and,
entering in numbers, separated us from each other, and compelled my companions, at point of
pike and poniard, to go to some other and more distant apartment, thus separating our fair
society. I was again enclosed in the now solitary chamber, and I will own that I felt a certain
depression of soul. But when bale is at highest, as the poet singeth, boot is at nighest, for
a door of hope was suddenly opened----"

"In the name of God, my liege," said the Duke of Ormond, "let this poor creature's story be
translated into the language of common sense by some of the scribblers of romances about Court,
and we may be able to make meaning of it."

Geoffrey Hudson looked with a frowning countenance of reproof upon the impatient old Irish
nobleman, and said, with a very dignified air, "That one Duke upon a poor gentleman's hand
was enough at a time, and that, but for his present engagement and dependency with the Duke
of Buckingham, he would have endured no such terms from the Duke of Ormond."

"Abate your valour, and diminish your choler, at our request, most puissant Sir Geoffrey Hudson,"
said the King; "and forgive the Duke of Ormond for my sake; but at all events go on with your
story."

Geoffrey Hudson laid his hand on his bosom, and bowed in proud and dignified submission to
his Sovereign; then waved his forgiveness gracefully to Ormond, accompanied with a horrible
grin, which he designed for a smile of gracious forgiveness and conciliation. "Under the Duke's
favour, then," he proceeded, "when I said a door of hope was opened to me, I meant a door behind
the tapestry, from whence issued that fair vision--yet not so fair as lustrously dark, like
the beauty of a continental night, where the cloudless azure sky shrouds us in a veil more
lovely than that of day!--but I note your Majesty's impatience;--enough. I followed my beautiful
guide into an apartment, where there lay, strangely intermingled, warlike arms and musical
instruments. Amongst these I saw my own late place of temporary obscurity--a violoncello. To
my astonishment, she turned around the instrument, and opening it behind the pressure of a
spring, showed that it was filled with pistols, daggers, and ammunition made up in bandoleers.
'These,' she said, 'are this night destined to surprise the Court of the unwary Charles'--your
Majesty must pardon my using her own words; 'but if thou darest go in their stead, thou mayst
be the saviour of king and kingdoms; if thou art afraid, keep secret, I will myself try the
adventure.' Now may Heaven forbid, that Geoffrey Hudson were craven enough, said I, to let
thee run such a risk! You know not--you cannot know, what belongs to such ambuscades and concealments--I
am accustomed to them--have lurked in the pocket of a giant, and have formed the contents of
a pasty. 'Get in then,' she said, 'and lose no time.' Nevertheless, while I prepared to obey,
I will not deny that some cold apprehensions came over my hot valour, and I confessed to her,
if it might be so, I would rather find my way to the palace on my own feet. But she would not
listen to me, saying hastily, 'I would be intercepted, or refused admittance, and that I must
embrace the means she offered me of introduction into the presence, and when there, tell the
King to be on his guard--little more is necessary; for once the scheme is known, it becomes
desperate.' Rashly and boldly, I bid adieu to the daylight which was then fading away. She
withdrew the contents of the instrument destined for my concealment, and having put them behind
the chimney-board, introduced me in their room. As she clasped me in, I implored her to warn
the men who were to be entrusted with me, to take heed and keep the neck of the violoncello
uppermost; but ere I had completed my request, I found I was left alone, and in darkness, Presently,
two or three fellows entered, whom, by their language, which I in some sort understood, I perceived
to be Germans, and under the influence of the Duke of Buckingham. I heard them receive from
the leader a charge how they were to deport themselves, when they should assume the concealed
arms--and--for I will do the Duke no wrong--I understood their orders were precise, not only
to spare the person of the King, but also those of the courtiers, and to protect all who might
be in the presence against an irruption of the fanatics. In other respects, they had charge
to disarm the Gentlemen-pensioners in the guard-room, and, in fine, to obtain the command of
the Court."

The King looked disconcerted and thoughtful at this communication, and bade Lord Arlington
see that Selby quietly made search into the contents of the other cases which had been brought
as containing musical instruments. He then signed to the dwarf to proceed in his story, asking
him again and again, and very solemnly, whether he was sure that he heard the Duke's name mentioned,
as commanding or approving this action.

The dwarf answered in the affirmative.

"This," said the King, "is carrying the frolic somewhat far."

The dwarf proceeded to state, that he was carried after his metamorphosis into the chapel,
where he heard the preacher seemingly about the close of his harangue, the tenor of which he
also mentioned. Words, he said, could not express the agony which he felt when he found that
his bearer, in placing the instrument in a corner, was about to invert its position, in which
case, he said, human frailty might have proved too great for love, for loyalty, for true obedience,
nay, for the fear of death, which was like to ensue on discovery; and he concluded, that he
greatly doubted he could not have stood on his head for many minutes without screaming aloud.

"I could not have blamed you," said the King; "placed in such a posture in the royal oak, I
must needs have roared myself.--Is this all you have to tell us of this strange conspiracy?"
Sir Geoffrey Hudson replied in the affirmative, and the King presently subjoined--"Go, my little
friend, your services shall not be forgotten. Since thou hast crept into the bowels of a fiddle
for our service, we are bound, in duty and conscience, to find you a more roomy dwelling in
future."

"It was a violoncello, if your Majesty is pleased to remember," said the little jealous man,
"not a common fiddle; though, for your Majesty's service, I would have crept even into a kit."

"Whatever of that nature could have been performed by any subject of ours, thou wouldst have
enacted in our behalf--of that we hold ourselves certain. Withdraw for a little; and hark ye,
for the present, beware what you say about this matter. Let your appearance be considered--do
you mark me--as a frolic of the Duke of Buckingham; and not a word of conspiracy."

"Were it not better to put him under some restraint, sire?" said the Duke of Ormond, when Hudson
had left the room.

"It is unnecessary," said the King. "I remember the little wretch of old. Fortune, to make
him the model of absurdity, has closed a most lofty soul within that little miserable carcass.
For wielding his sword and keeping his word, he is a perfect Don Quixote in decimo-octavo.
He shall be taken care of.--But, oddsfish, my lords, is not this freak of Buckingham too villainous
and ungrateful?"

"He had not had the means of being so, had your Majesty," said the Duke of Ormond, "been less
lenient on other occasions."

"My lord, my lord," said Charles hastily--"your lordship is Buckingham's known enemy--we will
take other and more impartial counsel--Arlington, what think you of all this?"

"May it please your Majesty," said Arlington, "I think the thing is absolutely impossible,
unless the Duke has had some quarrel with your Majesty, of which we know nothing. His Grace
is very flighty, doubtless, but this seems actual insanity."

"Why, faith," said the King, "some words passed betwixt us this morning--his Duchess it seems
is dead--and to lose no time, his Grace had cast his eyes about for means of repairing the
loss, and had the assurance to ask our consent to woo my niece Lady Anne."

"Which your Majesty of course rejected?" said the statesman.

"And not without rebuking his assurance," added the King.

"In private, sire, or before any witnesses?" said the Duke of Ormond.

"Before no one," said the King,--"excepting, indeed, little Chiffinch; and he, you know, is
no one."

"Hinc illæ lachrymæ," said Ormond. "I know his Grace well. While the rebuke of his aspiring
petulance was a matter betwixt your Majesty and him, he might have let it pass by; but a check
before a fellow from whom it was likely enough to travel through the Court, was a matter to
be revenged."

Here Selby came hastily from the other room, to say, that his Grace of Buckingham had just
entered the presence-chamber.

The King rose. "Let a boat be in readiness, with a party of the yeomen," said he. "It may be
necessary to attach him of treason, and send him to the Tower."

"Should not a Secretary of State's warrant be prepared?" said Ormond.

"No, my Lord Duke," said the King sharply. "I still hope that the necessity may be avoided."

CHAPTER XLVII

             High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
                                           --RICHARD III.

Before giving the reader an account of the meeting betwixt Buckingham and his injured Sovereign,
we may mention a trifling circumstance or two which took place betwixt his Grace and Chiffinch,
in the short drive betwixt York Place and Whitehall.

In the outset, the Duke endeavoured to learn from the courtier the special cause of his being
summoned so hastily to the Court. Chiffinch answered, cautiously, that he believed there were
some gambols going forward, at which the King desired the Duke's presence.

This did not quite satisfy Buckingham, for, conscious of his own rash purpose, he could not
but apprehend discovery. After a moment's silence, "Chiffinch," he said abruptly, "did you
mention to any one what the King said to me this morning touching the Lady Anne?"

"My Lord Duke," said Chiffinch, hesitantly, "surely my duty to the King--my respect to your
Grace----"

"You mentioned it to no one, then?" said the Duke sternly.

"To no one," replied Chiffinch faintly, for he was intimidated by the Duke's increasing severity
of manner.

"Ye lie, like a scoundrel!" said the Duke--"You told Christian!"

"Your Grace," said Chiffinch--"your Grace--your Grace ought to remember that I told you Christian's
secret; that the Countess of Derby was come up."

"And you think the one point of treachery may balance for the other? But no. I must have a
better atonement. Be assured I will blow your brains out, ere you leave this carriage, unless
you tell me the truth of this message from Court."

As Chiffinch hesitated what reply to make, a man, who, by the blaze of the torches, then always
borne, as well by the lackeys who hung behind the carriage, as by the footmen who ran by the
side, might easily see who sat in the coach, approached, and sung in a deep manly voice, the
burden of an old French song on the battle of Marignan, in which is imitated the German French
of the defeated Swiss.

 "Tout est verlore
  La tintelore,
  Tout est verlore
            Bei Got."

"I am betrayed," said the Duke, who instantly conceived that this chorus, expressing "all is
lost," was sung by one of his faithful agents, as a hint to him that their machinations were
discovered.

He attempted to throw himself from the carriage, but Chiffinch held him with a firm, though
respectful grasp. "Do not destroy yourself, my lord," he said, in a tone of deep humility--"there
are soldiers and officers of the peace around the carriage, to enforce your Grace's coming
to Whitehall, and to prevent your escape. To attempt it would be to confess guilt; and I advise
you strongly against that--the King is your friend--be your own."

The Duke, after a moment's consideration, said sullenly, "I believe you are right. Why should
I fly, when I am guilty of nothing but sending some fireworks to entertain the Court, instead
of a concert of music?"

"And the dwarf, who came so unexpectedly out of the bass-viol----"

"Was a masking device of my own, Chiffinch," said the Duke, though the circumstance was then
first known to him. "Chiffinch, you will bind me for ever, if you will permit me to have a
minute's conversation with Christian."

"With Christian, my lord?--Where could you find him?--You are aware we must go straight to
the Court."

"True," said the Duke, "but I think I cannot miss finding him; and you, Master Chiffinch, are
no officer, and have no warrant either to detain me prisoner, or prevent my speaking to whom
I please."

Chiffinch replied, "My Lord Duke, your genius is so great, and your escapes so numerous, that
it will be from no wish of my own if I am forced to hurt a man so skilful and so popular."

"Nay, then, there is life in it yet," said the Duke, and whistled; when, from beside the little
cutler's booth, with which the reader is acquainted, appeared, suddenly, Master Christian,
and was in a moment at the side of the coach. "Ganz ist verloren," said the Duke.

"I know it," said Christian; "and all our godly friends are dispersed upon the news. Luckily
the Colonel and these German rascals gave a hint. All is safe--You go to Court--Hark ye, I
will follow."

"You, Christian? that would be more friendly than wise."

"Why, what is there against me?" said Christian. "I am innocent as the child unborn--so is
your Grace. There is but one creature who can bear witness to our guilt; but I trust to bring
her on the stage in our favour--besides, if I were not, I should presently be sent for."

"The familiar of whom I have heard you speak, I warrant?"

"Hark in your ear again."

"I understand," said the Duke, "and will delay Master Chiffinch,--for he, you must know, is
my conductor,--no longer.--Well, Chiffinch, let them drive on.--Vogue la Galère!" he exclaimed,
as the carriage went onward; "I have sailed through worse perils than this yet."

"It is not for me to judge," said Chiffinch; "your Grace is a bold commander; and Christian
hath the cunning of the devil for a pilot; but----However, I remain your Grace's poor friend,
and will heartily rejoice in your extrication."

"Give me a proof of your friendship," said the Duke. "Tell me what you know of Christian's
familiar, as he calls her."

"I believe it to be the same dancing wench who came with Empson to my house on the morning
that Mistress Alice made her escape from us. But you have seen her, my lord?"

"I?" said the Duke; "when did I see her?"

"She was employed by Christian, I believe, to set his niece at liberty, when he found himself
obliged to gratify his fanatical brother-in-law, by restoring his child; besides being prompted
by a private desire, as I think, of bantering your Grace."

"Umph! I suspected so much. I will repay it," said the Duke. "But first to get out of this
dilemma.--That little Numidian witch, then, was his familiar; and she joined in the plot to
tantalise me?--But here we reach Whitehall.--Now, Chiffinch, be no worse than thy word, and--now,
Buckingham, be thyself!"

But ere we follow Buckingham into the presence, where he had so difficult a part to sustain,
it may not be amiss to follow Christian after his brief conversation with him. On re-entering
the house, which he did by a circuitous passage, leading from a distant alley, and through
several courts, Christian hastened to a low matted apartment, in which Bridgenorth sat alone,
reading the Bible by the light of a small brazen lamp, with the utmost serenity of countenance.

"Have you dismissed the Peverils?" said Christian hastily.

"I have," said the Major.

"And upon what pledge--that they will not carry information against you to Whitehall?"

"They gave me their promise voluntarily, when I showed them our armed friends were dismissed.
To-morrow, I believe, it is their purpose to lodge informations."

"And why not to-night, I pray you?" said Christian.

"Because they allow us that time for escape."

"Why, then, do you not avail yourself of it? Wherefore are you here?" said Christian.

"Nay, rather, why do you not fly?" said Bridgenorth. "Of a surety, you are as deeply engaged as I."

"Brother Bridgenorth, I am the fox, who knows a hundred modes of deceiving the hounds; you
are the deer, whose sole resource is in hasty flight. Therefore lose no time--begone to the
country--or rather, Zedekiah Fish's vessel, the Good Hope, lies in the river, bound for Massachusetts--take
the wings of the morning, and begone--she can fall down to Gravesend with the tide."

"And leave to thee, brother Christian," said Bridgenorth, "the charge of my fortune and my
daughter? No, brother; my opinion of your good faith must be re-established ere I again trust
thee."

"Go thy ways, then, for a suspicious fool," said Christian, suppressing his strong desire to
use language more offensive; "or rather stay where thou art, and take thy chance of the gallows!"

"It is appointed to all men to die once," said Bridgenorth; "my life hath been a living death.
My fairest boughs have been stripped by the axe of the forester--that which survives must,
if it shall blossom, be grafted elsewhere, and at a distance from my aged trunk. The sooner,
then, the root feels the axe, the stroke is more welcome. I had been pleased, indeed, had I
been called to bringing yonder licentious Court to a purer character, and relieving the yoke
of the suffering people of God. That youth too--son to that precious woman, to whom I owe the
last tie that feebly links my wearied spirit to humanity--could I have travailed with him in
the good cause!--But that, with all my other hopes is broken for ever; and since I am not worthy
to be an instrument in so great a work, I have little desire to abide longer in this vale of
sorrow."

"Farewell, then, desponding fool!" said Christian, unable, with all his calmness, any longer
to suppress his contempt for the resigned and hopeless predestinarian. "That fate should have
clogged me with such confederates!" he muttered, as he left the apartment--"this bigoted fool
is now nearly irreclaimable--I must to Zarah; for she, or no one, must carry us through these
straits. If I can but soothe her sullen temper, and excite her vanity to action,--betwixt her
address, the King's partiality for the Duke, Buckingham's matchless effrontery, and my own
hand upon the helm, we may yet weather the tempest that darkens around us. But what we do must
be hastily done."

In another apartment he found the person he sought--the same who visited the Duke of Buckingham's
harem, and, having relieved Alice Bridgenorth from her confinement there, had occupied her
place as has been already narrated, or rather intimated. She was now much more plainly attired
than when she had tantalised the Duke with her presence; but her dress had still something
of the Oriental character, which corresponded with the dark complexion and quick eye of the
wearer. She had the kerchief at her eyes as Christian entered the apartment, but suddenly withdrew
it, and, flashing on him a glance of scorn and indignation, asked him what he meant by intruding
where his company was alike unsought for and undesired.

"A proper question," said Christian, "from a slave to her master!"

"Rather, say, a proper question, and of all questions the most proper, from a mistress to her
slave! Know you not, that from the hour in which you discovered your ineffable baseness, you
have made me mistress of your lot? While you seemed but a demon of vengeance, you commanded
terror, and to good purpose; but such a foul fiend as thou hast of late shown thyself--such
a very worthless, base trickster of the devil--such a sordid grovelling imp of perdition, can
gain nothing but scorn from a soul like mine."

"Gallantly mouthed," said Christian, "and with good emphasis."

"Yes," answered Zarah, "I can speak--sometimes--I can also be mute; and that no one knows better
than thou."

"Thou art a spoiled child, Zarah, and dost but abuse the indulgence I entertain for your freakish
humour," replied Christian; "thy wits have been disturbed since ever you landed in England,
and all for the sake of one who cares for thee no more than for the most worthless object who
walks the streets, amongst whom he left you to engage in a brawl for one he loved better."

"It is no matter," said Zarah, obviously repressing very bitter emotion; "it signifies not
that he loves another better; there is none--no, none--that ever did, or can, love him so well."

"I pity you, Zarah!" said Christian, with some scorn.

"I deserve your pity," she replied, "were your pity worth my accepting. Whom have I to thank
for my wretchedness but you?--You bred me up in thirst of vengeance, ere I knew that good and
evil were anything better than names;--to gain your applause, and to gratify the vanity you
had excited, I have for years undergone a penance, from which a thousand would have shrunk."

"A thousand, Zarah!" answered Christian; "ay, a hundred thousand, and a million to boot; the
creature is not on earth, being mere mortal woman, that would have undergone the thirtieth
part of thy self-denial."

"I believe it," said Zarah, drawing up her slight but elegant figure; "I believe it--I have
gone through a trial that few indeed could have sustained. I have renounced the dear intercourse
of my kind; compelled my tongue only to utter, like that of a spy, the knowledge which my ear
had only collected as a base eavesdropper. This I have done for years--for years--and all for
the sake of your private applause--and the hope of vengeance on a woman, who, if she did ill
in murdering my father, has been bitterly repaid by nourishing a serpent in her bosom, that
had the tooth, but not the deafened ear, of the adder."

"Well--well--well," reiterated Christian; "and had you not your reward in my approbation--in
the consequences of your own unequalled dexterity--by which, superior to anything of thy sex
that history has ever known, you endured what woman never before endured, insolence without
notice, admiration without answer, and sarcasm without reply?"

"Not without reply!" said Zarah fiercely. "Gave not Nature to my feelings a course of expression
more impressive than words? and did not those tremble at my shrieks, who would have little
minded my entreaties or my complaints? And my proud lady, who sauced her charities with the
taunts she thought I heard not--she was justly paid by the passing her dearest and most secret
concerns into the hands of her mortal enemy; and the vain Earl--yet he was a thing as insignificant
as the plume that nodded in his cap;--and the maidens and ladies who taunted me--I had, or
can easily have, my revenge upon them. But there is one," she added, looking upward, "who never
taunted me; one whose generous feelings could treat the poor dumb girl even as his sister;
who never spoke word of her but was to excuse or defend--and you tell me I must not love him,
and that it is madness to love him!--I will be mad then, for I will love till the latest breath
of my life!"

"Think but an instant, silly girl--silly but in one respect, since in all others thou mayest
brave the world of women. Think what I have proposed to thee, for the loss of this hopeless
affection, a career so brilliant!--Think only that it rests with thyself to be the wife--the
wedded wife--of the princely Buckingham! With my talents--with thy wit and beauty--with his
passionate love of these attributes--a short space might rank you among England's princesses.--Be
but guided by me--he is now at deadly pass--needs every assistance to retrieve his fortunes--above
all, that which we alone can render him. Put yourself under my conduct, and not fate itself
shall prevent your wearing a Duchess's coronet."

"A coronet of thistle-down, entwined with thistle-leaves," said Zarah.--"I know not a slighter
thing than your Buckingham! I saw him at your request--saw him when, as a man, he should have
shown himself generous and noble--I stood the proof at your desire, for I laugh at those dangers
from which the poor blushing wailers of my sex shrink and withdraw themselves. What did I find
him?--a poor wavering voluptuary--his nearest attempt to passion like the fire on a wretched
stubble-field, that may singe, indeed, or smoke, but can neither warm nor devour. Christian!
were his coronet at my feet this moment, I would sooner take up a crown of gilded gingerbread,
than extend my hand to raise it."

"You are mad, Zarah--with all your taste and talent, you are utterly mad! But let Buckingham
pass--Do you owe me nothing on this emergency?--Nothing to one who rescued you from the cruelty
of your owner, the posture-master, to place you in ease and affluence?"

"Christian," she replied, "I owe you much. Had I not felt I did so, I would, as I have been
often tempted to do, have denounced thee to the fierce Countess, who would have gibbeted you
on her feudal walls of Castle Rushin, and bid your family seek redress from the eagles, that
would long since have thatched their nest with your hair, and fed their young ospreys with
your flesh."

"I am truly glad you have had so much forbearance for me," answered Christian.

"I have it, in truth and in sincerity," replied Zarah--"Not for your benefits to me--such as
they were, they were every one interested, and conferred from the most selfish considerations.
I have overpaid them a thousand times by the devotion to your will, which I have displayed
at the greatest personal risk. But till of late I respected your powers of mind--your inimitable
command of passion--the force of intellect which I have ever seen you exercise over all others,
from the bigot Bridgenorth to the debauched Buckingham--in that, indeed, I have recognised
my master."

"And those powers," said Christian, "are unlimited as ever; and with thy assistance, thou shalt
see the strongest meshes that the laws of civil society ever wove to limit the natural dignity
of man, broke asunder like a spider's web."

She paused and answered, "While a noble motive fired thee--ay, a noble motive, though irregular--for
I was born to gaze on the sun which the pale daughters of Europe shrink from--I could serve
thee--I could have followed, while revenge or ambition had guided thee--but love of wealth,
and by what means acquired!--What sympathy can I hold with that?--Wouldst thou not have pandered
to the lust of the King, though the object was thine own orphan niece?--You smile?--Smile again
when I ask you whether you meant not my own prostitution, when you charged me to remain in
the house of that wretched Buckingham?--Smile at that question, and by Heaven, I stab you to
the heart!" And she thrust her hand into her bosom, and partly showed the hilt of a small poniard.

"And if I smile," said Christian, "it is but in scorn of so odious an accusation. Girl, I will
not tell thee the reason, but there exists not on earth the living thing over whose safety
and honour I would keep watch as over thine. Buckingham's wife, indeed, I wished thee; and
through thy own beauty and thy wit, I doubted not to bring the match to pass."

"Vain flatterer," said Zarah, yet seeming soothed even by the flattery which she scoffed at,
"you would persuade me that it was honourable love which you expected the Duke was to have
offered me. How durst you urge a gross a deception, to which time, place, and circumstance
gave the lie?--How dare you now again mention it, when you well know, that at the time you
mention, the Duchess was still in life?"

"In life, but on her deathbed," said Christian; "and for time, place, and circumstance, had
your virtue, my Zarah, depended on these, how couldst thou have been the creature thou art?
I knew thee all-sufficient to bid him defiance--else--for thou art dearer to me than thou thinkest--I
had not risked thee to win the Duke of Buckingham; ay, and the kingdom of England to boot.
So now, wilt thou be ruled and go on with me?"

Zarah, or Fenella, for our readers must have been long aware of the identity of these two personages,
cast down her eyes, and was silent for a long time. "Christian," she said at last, in a solemn
voice, "if my ideas of right and of wrong be wild and incoherent, I owe it, first, to the wild
fever which my native sun communicated to my veins; next, to my childhood, trained amidst the
shifts, tricks, and feats of jugglers and mountebanks; and then, to a youth of fraud and deception,
through the course thou didst prescribe me, in which I might, indeed, hear everything, but
communicate with no one. The last cause of my wild errors, if such they are, originates, O
Christian, with you alone; by whose intrigues I was placed with yonder lady, and who taught
me, that to revenge my father's death, was my first great duty on earth, and that I was bound
by nature to hate and injure her by whom I was fed and fostered, though as she would have fed
and caressed a dog, or any other mute animal. I also think--for I will deal fairly with you--that
you had not so easily detected your niece, in the child whose surprising agility was making
yonder brutal mountebank's fortune; nor so readily induced him to part with his bond-slave,
had you not, for your own purposes, placed me under his charge, and reserved the privilege
of claiming me when you pleased. I could not, under any other tuition, have identified myself
with the personage of a mute, which it has been your desire that I should perform through life."

"You do me injustice, Zarah," said Christian--"I found you capable of the avenging of your
father's death--I consecrated you to it, as I consecrated my own life and hopes; and you held
the duty sacred, till these mad feeling towards a youth who loves your cousin----"

"Who--loves--my--cousin," repeated Zarah (for we will continue to call her by her real name)
slowly, and as if the words dropped unconsciously from her lips. "Well--be it so!--Man of many
wiles, I will follow thy course for a little, a very little farther; but take heed--tease me
not with remonstrances against the treasure of my secret thoughts--I mean my most hopeless
affection to Julian Peveril--and bring me not as an assistant to any snare which you may design
to cast around him. You and your Duke shall rue the hour most bitterly, in which you provoke
me. You may suppose you have me in your power; but remember, the snakes of my burning climate
are never so fatal as when you grasp them."

"I care not for these Peverils," said Christian--"I care not for their fate a poor straw, unless
where it bears on that of the destined woman, whose hands are red in your father's blood. Believe
me, I can divide her fate and theirs. I will explain to you how. And for the Duke, he may pass
among men of the town for wit, and among soldiers for valour, among courtiers for manners and
for form; and why, with his high rank and immense fortune, you should throw away an opportunity,
which, as I could now improve it----"

"Speak not of it," said Zarah, "if thou wouldst have our truce--remember it is no peace--if,
I say, thou wouldst have our truce grow to be an hour old!"

"This, then," said Christian, with a last effort to work upon the vanity of this singular being,
"is she who pretended such superiority to human passion, that she could walk indifferently
and unmoved through the halls of the prosperous, and the prison cells of the captive, unknowing
and unknown, sympathising neither with the pleasures of the one, nor the woes of the other,
but advancing with sure, though silent steps, her own plans, in despite and regardless of either!"

"My own plans!" said Zarah--"Thy plans, Christian--thy plans of extorting from the surprised
prisoners, means whereby to convict them--thine own plans, formed with those more powerful
than thyself, to sound men's secrets, and, by using them as a matter of accusation, to keep
up the great delusion of the nation."

"Such access was indeed given you as my agent," said Christian, "and for advancing a great
national change. But how did you use it?--to advance your insane passion."

"Insane!" said Zarah--"Had he been less than insane whom I addressed, he and I had ere now
been far from the toils which you have pitched for us both. I had means prepared for everything;
and ere this, the shores of Britain had been lost to our sight for ever."

"The dwarf, too," said Christian--"Was it worthy of you to delude that poor creature with flattering
visions--lull him asleep with drugs! Was that my doing?"

"He was my destined tool," said Zarah haughtily. "I remembered your lessons too well not to
use him as such. Yet scorn him not too much. I tell you, that yon very miserable dwarf, whom
I made my sport in the prison--yon wretched abortion of nature, I would select for a husband,
ere I would marry your Buckingham;--the vain and imbecile pigmy has yet the warm heart and
noble feelings, that a man should hold his highest honour."

"In God's name, then, take your own way," said Christian; "and, for my sake, let never man
hereafter limit a woman in the use of her tongue, since he must make it amply up to her, in
allowing her the privilege of her own will. Who would have thought it? But the colt has slipped
the bridle, and I must needs follow, since I cannot guide her."

Our narrative returns to the Court of King Charles at Whitehall.

CHAPTER XLVIII

                                   ----But oh!
          What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop; thou cruel,
          Ingrateful, savage, and inhuman creature!
          Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
          That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
          That almost mightst have coined me into gold,
          Wouldst thou have practised on me for thy use?
                                                   --HENRY V.

At no period of his life, not even when that life was in imminent danger, did the constitutional
gaiety of Charles seem more overclouded, than when waiting for the return of Chiffinch with
the Duke of Buckingham. His mind revolted at the idea, that the person to whom he had been
so particularly indulgent, and whom he had selected as the friend of his lighter hours and
amusements, should prove capable of having tampered with a plot apparently directed against
his liberty and life. He more than once examined the dwarf anew, but could extract nothing
more than his first narrative contained. The apparition of the female to him in the cell of
Newgate, he described in such fanciful and romantic colours, that the King could not help thinking
the poor man's head a little turned; and, as nothing was found in the kettledrum, and other
musical instruments brought for the use of the Duke's band of foreigners, he nourished some
slight hope that the whole plan might be either a mere jest, or that the idea of an actual
conspiracy was founded in mistake.

The persons who had been despatched to watch the motions of Mr. Weiver's congregation, brought
back word that they had quietly dispersed. It was known, at the same time, that they had met
in arms, but this augured no particular design of aggression, at a time when all true Protestants
conceived themselves in danger of immediate massacre; when the fathers of the city had repeatedly
called out the Train-Bands, and alarmed the citizens of London, under the idea of an instant
insurrection of the Catholics; and when, to sum the whole up, in the emphatic words of an alderman
of the day, there was a general belief that they would all waken some unhappy morning with
their throats cut. Who was to do these dire deeds, it was more difficult to suppose; but all
admitted the possibility that they might be achieved, since one Justice of the Peace was already
murdered. There was, therefore, no inference of hostile intentions against the State, to be
decidedly derived from a congregation of Protestants par excellence, military from old associations,
bringing their arms with them to a place of worship, in the midst of a panic so universal.

Neither did the violent language of the minister, supposing that to be proved, absolutely infer
meditated violence. The favourite parables of the preachers, and the metaphors and ornaments
which they selected, were at all times of a military cast; and the taking the kingdom of heaven
by storm, a strong and beautiful metaphor, when used generally as in Scripture, was detailed
in their sermons in all the technical language of the attack and defence of a fortified place.
The danger, in short, whatever might have been its actual degree, had disappeared as suddenly
as a bubble upon the water, when broken by a casual touch, and had left as little trace behind
it. It became, therefore, matter of much doubt, whether it had ever actually existed.

While various reports were making from without, and while their tenor was discussed by the
King, and such nobles and statesmen as he thought proper to consult on the occasion, a gradual
sadness and anxiety mingled with, and finally silenced, the mirth of the evening. All became
sensible that something unusual was going forward; and the unwonted distance which Charles
maintained from his guests, while it added greatly to the dulness that began to predominate
in the presence-chamber, gave intimation that something unusual was labouring in the King's mind.

Thus play was neglected--the music was silent, or played without being heard--gallants ceased
to make compliments, and ladies to expect them; and a sort of apprehensive curiosity pervaded
the circle. Each asked the others why they were grave; and no answer was returned, any more
than could have been rendered by a herd of cattle instinctively disturbed by the approach of
a thunderstorm.

To add to the general apprehension, it began to be whispered, that one or two of the guests,
who were desirous of leaving the palace, had been informed no one could be permitted to retire
until the general hour of dismissal. And these, gliding back into the hall, communicated in
whispers that the sentinels at the gates were doubled, and that there was a troop of the Horse
Guards drawn up in the court--circumstances so unusual, as to excite the most anxious curiosity.

Such was the state of the Court, when wheels were heard without, and the bustle which took
place denoted the arrival of some person of consequence.

"Here comes Chiffinch," said the King, "with his prey in his clutch."

It was indeed the Duke of Buckingham; nor did he approach the royal presence without emotion.
On entering the court, the flambeaux which were borne around the carriage gleamed on the scarlet
coats, laced hats, and drawn broadswords of the Horse Guards--a sight unusual, and calculated
to strike terror into a conscience which was none of the clearest.

The Duke alighted from the carriage, and only said to the officer, whom he saw upon duty, "You
are late under arms to-night, Captain Carleton."

"Such are our orders, sir," answered Carleton, with military brevity; and then commanded the
four dismounted sentinels at the under gate to make way for the Duke of Buckingham. His Grace
had no sooner entered, than he heard behind him the command, "Move close up, sentinels--closer
yet to the gate." And he felt as if all chance of rescue were excluded by the sound.

As he advanced up the grand staircase, there were other symptoms of alarm and precaution. The
Yeomen of the Guard were mustered in unusual numbers, and carried carabines instead of their
halberds; and the Gentlemen-pensioners, with their partisans, appeared also in proportional
force. In short, all that sort of defence which the royal household possesses within itself,
seemed, for some hasty and urgent reason, to have been placed under arms, and upon duty.

Buckingham ascended the royal staircase with an eye attentive to these preparations, and a
step steady and slow, as if he counted each step on which he trode. "Who," he asked himself,
"shall ensure Christian's fidelity? Let him but stand fast, and we are secure. Otherwise----"

As he shaped the alternative, he entered the presence-chamber.

The King stood in the midst of the apartment, surrounded by the personages with whom he had
been consulting. The rest of the brilliant assembly, scattered into groups, looked on at some
distance. All were silent when Buckingham entered, in hopes of receiving some explanation of
the mysteries of the evening. All bent forward, though etiquette forbade them to advance, to
catch, if possible, something of what was about to pass betwixt the King and his intriguing
statesman. At the same time, those counsellors who stood around Charles, drew back on either
side, so as to permit the Duke to pay his respects to his Majesty in the usual form. He went
through the ceremonial with his accustomed grace, but was received by Charles with much unwonted
gravity.

"We have waited for you some time, my Lord Duke. It is long since Chiffinch left us, to request
your attendance here. I see you are elaborately dressed. Your toilette was needless on the
present occasion."

"Needless to the splendour of your Majesty's Court," said the Duke, "but not needless on my
part. This chanced to be Black Monday at York Place, and my club of Pendables were in full
glee when your Majesty's summons arrived. I could not be in the company of Ogle, Maniduc, Dawson,
and so forth, but what I must needs make some preparation, and some ablution, ere entering
the circle here."

"I trust the purification will be complete," said the King, without any tendency to the smile
which always softened features, that, ungilded by its influence, were dark, harsh, and even
severe. "We wished to ask your Grace concerning the import of a sort of musical mask which
you designed us here, but which miscarried, as we are given to understand."

"It must have been a great miscarriage indeed," said the Duke, "since your Majesty looks so
serious on it. I thought to have done your Majesty pleasure (as I have seen you condescend
to be pleased with such passages), by sending the contents of that bass-viol; but I fear the
jest has been unacceptable--I fear the fireworks may have done mischief."

"Not the mischief they were designed for, perhaps," said the King gravely; "you see, my lord,
we are all alive, and unsinged."

"Long may your Majesty remain so," said the Duke; "yet I see there is something misconstrued
on my part--it must be a matter unpardonable, however little intended, since it hath displeased
so indulgent a master."

"Too indulgent a master, indeed, Buckingham," replied the King; "and the fruit of my indulgence
has been to change loyal men into traitors."

"May it please your Majesty, I cannot understand this," said the Duke.

"Follow us, my lord," answered Charles, "and we will endeavour to explain our meaning."

Attended by the same lords who stood around him, and followed by the Duke of Buckingham, on
whom all eyes were fixed, Charles retired into the same cabinet which had been the scene of
repeated consultations in the course of the evening. There, leaning with his arms crossed on
the back of an easy-chair, Charles proceeded to interrogate the suspected nobleman.

"Let us be plain with each other. Speak out, Buckingham. What, in one word, was to have been
the regale intended for us this evening?"

"A petty mask, my lord. I had destined a little dancing-girl to come out of that instrument,
who, I thought, would have performed to your Majesty's liking--a few Chinese fireworks there
were, thinking the entertainment was to have taken place in the marble hall, might, I hoped,
have been discharged with good effect, and without the slightest alarm, at the first appearance
of my little sorceress, and were designed to have masked, as it were, her entrance upon the
stage. I hope there have been no perukes singed--no ladies frightened--no hopes of noble descent
interrupted by my ill-fancied jest."

"We have seen no such fireworks, my lord; and your female dancer, of whom we now hear for the
first time, came forth in the form of our old acquaintance Geoffrey Hudson, whose dancing days
are surely ended."

"Your Majesty surprises me! I beseech you, let Christian be sent for--Edward Christian--he
will be found lodging in a large old house near Sharper the cutler's, in the Strand. As I live
by bread, sire, I trusted him with the arrangement of this matter, as indeed the dancing-girl
was his property. If he has done aught to dishonour my concert, or disparage my character,
he shall die under the baton."

"It is singular," said the King, "and I have often observed it, that this fellow Christian
bears the blame of all men's enormities--he performs the part which, in a great family, is
usually assigned to that mischief-doing personage, Nobody. When Chiffinch blunders, he always
quotes Christian. When Sheffield writes a lampoon, I am sure to hear of Christian having corrected,
or copied, or dispersed it--he is the ame damnée of every one about my Court--the scapegoat,
who is to carry away all their iniquities; and he will have a cruel load to bear into the wilderness.
But for Buckingham's sins, in particular, he is the regular and uniform sponsor; and I am convinced
his Grace expects Christian should suffer every penalty he has incurred, in this world or the
next."

"Not so," with the deepest reverence replied the Duke. "I have no hope of being either hanged
or damned by proxy; but it is clear some one hath tampered with and altered my device. If I
am accused of aught, let me at least hear the charge, and see my accuser."

"That is but fair," said the King. "Bring our little friend from behind the chimney-board.
[Hudson being accordingly produced, he continued.] There stands the Duke of Buckingham. Repeat
before him the tale you told us. Let him hear what were those contents of the bass-viol which
were removed that you might enter it. Be not afraid of any one, but speak the truth boldly."

"May it please your Majesty," said Hudson, "fear is a thing unknown to me."

"His body has no room to hold such a passion; or there is too little of it to be worth fearing
for," said Buckingham.--"But let him speak."

Ere Hudson had completed his tale, Buckingham interrupted him by exclaiming, "Is it possible
that I can be suspected by your Majesty on the word of this pitiful variety of the baboon tribe?"

"Villain-Lord, I appeal thee to the combat!" said the little man, highly offended at the appellation
thus bestowed on him.

"La you there now!" said the Duke--"The little animal is quite crazed, and defies a man who
need ask no other weapon than a corking-pin to run him through the lungs, and whose single
kick could hoist him from Dover to Calais without yacht or wherry. And what can you expect
from an idiot, who is engoué of a common rope-dancing girl, that capered on a pack-thread at
Ghent in Flanders, unless they were to club their talents to set up a booth at Bartholomew
Fair?--Is it not plain, that supposing the little animal is not malicious, as indeed his whole
kind bear a general and most cankered malice against those who have the ordinary proportions
of humanity--Grant, I say, that this were not a malicious falsehood of his, why, what does
it amount to?--That he has mistaken squibs and Chinese crackers for arms! He says not he himself
touched or handled them; and judging by the sight alone, I question if the infirm old creature,
when any whim or preconception hath possession of his noddle, can distinguish betwixt a blunderbuss
and a black-pudding."

The horrible clamour which the dwarf made so soon as he heard this disparagement of his military
skill--the haste with which he blundered out a detail of this warlike experiences--and the
absurd grimaces which he made in order to enforce his story, provoked not only the risibility
of Charles, but even of the statesmen around him, and added absurdity to the motley complexion
of the scene. The King terminated this dispute, by commanding the dwarf to withdraw.

A more regular discussion of his evidence was then resumed, and Ormond was the first who pointed
out, that it went farther than had been noticed, since the little man had mentioned a certain
extraordinary and treasonable conversation held by the Duke's dependents, by whom he had been
conveyed to the palace.

