Dignified country houses no longer raised brown-tiled roofs from among groves of olives; but
an illimitable sea of waving downs lay bathed in the amber light of Spain. Then, olive woods
again, with a foam, of field-flowers spraying their gnarled feet, hedges of sweetbrier, tangled
with tall, wild lilacs, and blossoming thorn. Beyond, high hills up which the Gloria stormed
boldly, frightening the horses of a troop of laughing soldiers who rode without saddles; over
stony roads, mere rough tracks drawn through meadows, where bulls grazed, and bellowed at the
automobile; thus to a village which first showed itself like a white crown on a hilltop, and
proved to be inhabited by women and children of surpassing beauty. Never were such eyes as
those which looked from the faces in the quick-gathering crowd; eyes like black wells with
fallen stars in their depths.

Peasant houses by the wayside had thatched roofs, grey and glistening as silver plush; and
outside ovens like huge cups turned upside down. The fields were gay with flowers; the distance
floated in waves of azure gauze which touched the sky.

On we swept, as though to find the joining place, but found only Ecija, the Town of the Seven
Brigands, with its grand bridge and pearl-white Moorish mills, in the yellow, swift-running Genil.

Kings had been lodged behind those brass-nailed doors and wrought-iron balconies, the Cherub
said; and malefactors famed in history and ballad had swung from that tall gallows which caught
the eye before Ecija’s eight church towers. There had been famous fighting, too, by the river
bank; but now the place slept, dreaming of peace, and the whirr of the mill-wheels sounded
as comforting as the “chum-chum” of a motor that runs by night.

So we flashed out of the Province of Cordoba into the Province of Seville, and tall, slender
palms, rearing feathered heads among walnut trees and oaks, were signposts pointing south.
It was early in April, but the air was the air of an English June, and I wondered to see men
muffled in long capas. “They do it to keep out the sun, as in the north to keep out the wind,”
explained Pilar; but she only laughed when Dick asked why they shaved their donkeys’ backs,
why they put red and yellow muzzles on their donkeys’ mouths, why they always carried plaid
“railway rugs” on their beasts’ backs or their own, and why their trousers and leggings were
made in one piece?

Beyond the olives, black clumps of umbrella pines flung ink-blots against the sky, and a purple
carpet of budding heather was torn apart to let the road pass through. It was ideal motor-country,
and Dick recalled with sneers the sixty horse-power man in Biarritz, who had feared the experiment.

“The way is to do what you want to do, and find out as you go along whether it can be done
or not,” he soliloquized.

I wondered if he were thinking of another difficult road, not to be travelled by motors—a road
where perhaps Don Cipriano already knew the way.

Larks sprang skyward from beds of wild flowers as we fled by, little fountains of music; tall
cranes flew out of screening bushes beside bright streams; and blurring the distance before
us, a mist of rain floated like a veil blown across the face of Spring.

In sight of Carmona’s splendid walls and ruined castle, the rain caught us; and for Pilar’s
sake we made the car cosey by fastening down the front glass and filling in the space with
drawn canvas curtains.

After this, our fleeting glimpses of pine and palm and olive were dimmed as we bowled along
a sandy road, yellow as beaten gold. Now and again a patch of purple blossom burning through
the mist sang a loud, exultant note of spring and love; and pretty orange-pickers, in men’s
jackets and brown trousers, warbled of the same theme in that soft Andaluza which is beyond
all other languages of passion.

The colour, and the music, and the day went to my head. I knew that I was young, and I wanted
my chance of happiness—wanted it so much that I felt I could kill a man who dared try to snatch
it from me.

                                   XXVI

IN THE PALACE OF THE KINGS

“Now I’ve something serious to say, Don Ramón,” began the Cherub, when we had passed the first
pink-and-white house which marked the suburbs of Seville. “You mustn’t go to an hotel here.
It would be dangerous. You must be our guest; and Señor Waring, too. I feel now as if our little
play were true, and you were my son; while as for Señor Waring, we might have known him for
years, might we not, Pilarcita?”

“Of course. For my part, I’m ready to adopt him for a brother, too,” replied Pilar.

I covered Dick’s recoil at this blow by thanking the Cherub. He was more than kind, I said,
but we couldn’t think of—

“You will not think of disappointing us,” broke in the dear brown fellow. “Could you have imagined
that our only reason is to keep you out of danger? No. We’re not so unselfish. We want you.
Partings will come soon enough. We must have you with us, under our roof, at our table, as
long as we can. Now you understand, you will say ‘yes.’ ”

“In my country,” said Dick, as a broad hint to me, “when we tell people we want them to visit
us, we mean it; and I guess Colonel O’Donnel and Miss O’Donnel are the same sort.”

Of course I wanted to say yes; and, of course, after this, I did say yes without further parleying.

“Now begins the most critical time in this adventure of yours. Don Ramón,” the Cherub went
on. “You see, as our place is only five miles outside Seville, we know many people; and though
Carmona is seldom there with his mother, he certainly has acquaintances, and some of them may
be ours too. You have travelled since Burgos as my son, though you wore his uniform only for
two days; but you may be sure Carmona has been looking forward to shaking you off, once and
for all, if you should venture to Seville to see the show of Semana Santa as other tourists
see it.”

“He perhaps thinks that, because of our promise—which we’ve kept—he’s shaken Ramón off already,”
said Dick.

“He knows better. The trick answered for a few hours; but his car broke down, and he had to
accept our help. He said then that fate was against him; I heard it; and Carmona’s a man to
be actually superstitious about you, now. So far, he’s kept the little señorita out of touch
with you, but that’s nearly all he has accomplished.”

“Thanks to you both,” I cut in. “If it hadn’t been for your help, I should have been ‘pinched,’
and hustled over the border long ago. I see that now; and though I should have come back and
begun the chase again somehow, it would have been a thousand times more difficult.”

“No use bothering about what might have happened,” laughed Pilar. “Let’s think of what did
happen—and what will.”

“Nevertheless,” said I, “the thought’s often in my mind; what if we had missed Colonel and
Miss O’Donnel at Burgos?”

Dick chuckled; and when Pilar wanted to know what amused him, asked my permission to tell.
I gave him leave; and with a memory for detail which I could have spared, to say nothing of
an attempt at mimicry, he repeated, word for word, my objections to meeting the Irish friends
of Angèle de la Mole.

We were so intimate now that my point of view before knowing them did seem particularly comic,
and Dick made the most of it.

“Well, think what we have to thank you for!” exclaimed Pilar; “this delightful trip. If it
hadn’t been for you, Cristóbal would be here instead of with Angèle in Biarritz.”

“Come back to common sense,” implored the Cherub, “and help me plan for the Cristóbal who is
here. If he sits in our box for the processions, Carmona will see him and say to some officious
person, very different from Rafael Calmenare, ‘who is that young man with the O’Donnels?’ And
the officious person will answer, ‘I never saw him in my life.’ ‘Ah,’ the Duke will exclaim,
‘isn’t he Cristóbal O’Donnel?’ ‘Not at all,’ will come the reply; and Carmona will proceed
to make trouble.”

“For you as well as for me; that’s the worst of it,” said I.

“We care nothing for that. It’s of you we think,” said the Cherub. And because I knew it was
true, more than ever it became my duty to think of him and his.

“Of course I don’t want to lose any chance of seeing Monica,” I said; “but on the days of the
processions I shall walk about in the crowd and keep out of Carmona’s way.”

“As for us,” said Pilar, “we’ll try for a box near the Duke’s—though there may be nothing left,
as the King’s to be here and there’s sure to be a crowd. I’ll do my best to whisper to Lady
Monica, or send her a note, or speak with my eyes if no more.”

“You know how I depend on you,” I answered. “She may give you a letter, an answer to one which
I hope she got at Manzanares.”

“I’ll be ready for the lightest hint,” said Pilar. “If she has a note for you, she’ll show
it behind her fan. Then I’ll motion her to crumple it up and throw it on the floor as she goes
out. If you don’t appear in our society, the Duke will think perhaps that after all he’s safe.”

“No. We mustn’t count on any such thing,” broke in her father. “If he can’t get rid of you
in one way, he’ll try another; and there’s an old saying which is still true: anything can
happen in Spain, especially in the south. Carmona will be watching for you. You must be prepared
for that.”

“I shall be,” I said.

“We’ll all be,” Pilar finished. “Oh, there’s the old Roman aqueduct! Isn’t it splendid; and
strong as if it had been built yesterday instead of in the days before the Goths. I love Seville—love
every brick and stone of it, from the ruins of the Moorish wall and the Torre del Oro, and
the glorious cathedral, to the old house in the Callo del Candilejo, where the witch-woman
looked out and saw King Don Pedro fighting his duel. I don’t believe any other place could
make up to me for Seville.”

By the side of the two-thousand-years-old-aqueduct ran a modern electric tramway; and one of
the graceful arches made by Roman hands had been widened to let pass the railway line for Madrid.
Farther on, Moorish houses with lofty miradors and beautiful capped windows were tucked between
ugly new buildings, and across the shaded avenue of a green park was flung an extraordinary,
four-winged spiral staircase of iron. I groaned at the monstrosity, saying that Pedro himself
had never perpetrated an act more cruel; and the Cherub excused it sadly, by saying that it
was convenient for the crowds to pass from one side of the street to the other, as I should
see if I stayed beyond the Semana Santa for the feria.

“Look at the Giralda, and you’ll forget the iron bridge,” said Pilar. My eyes followed hers,
and lit like winging birds upon a beautiful tower soaring delicately against the sky. So light,
so fragile in effect was it, I felt that it might lean upon a cloud. In the golden light of
afternoon the little pillars of old marble, the carved lozenges of stone, the arches of the
horseshoe windows, the dainty carvings of the balconies, and all the marvellous ornamentation
that broke the square surfaces of the tower, were rosy as if with reflections from a sunset
sky. Its beauty was a Moorish poem in brick-work, such as no other hands save Moorish hands
have ever made.

I looked back until I lost sight of the Giralda, except the glittering figure of Faith on the
top (strange symbol for a weather-vane), while threading through tortuous streets, mere strips
of pavement veiled with blue shadow, and walled with secretive, flat-fronted houses, old and
new, pearly with fresh whitewash, or painted pale lemon, faded orange, or a green ethereal
as the tints of seaweed. Even at first sight the quaint town was singularly lovable, in its
mingling of simplicity and mystery, and as Spanish in this mixture as in all things else.

The tall, straight palms, with their tufted heads like falling fountains, clear against the
sky, were Oriental, and seemed scarcely kin to the palms of Italy and Southern France. Nor
were the narrow streets, through which we pounded over cobbles, like the narrow streets of
Italian towns. They were Spanish; inexplicably but wholly Spanish, although Dick was not sure
they did not recall bits of Venice, “just as you turn away from St. Mark’s.”

It was odd that shops so small could be so gay and attractive as these with their rows of painted
fans, their draped mantillas, their bright sashes, foolish little tambourines, castanets tied
with rosettes of ribbon in Spanish colours; their curious and vivid antique jewelry; their
sombreros cordobeses displayed in the same windows with silk hats from Bond Street; their flaming
flowers, Moorish pottery, old lace, and cabinets of inlaid ebony and silver. And I knew that
I should learn to love the sounds of Seville better than the sounds of London or other cities
I had seen.

Haunting sounds they were, these noises of a closely peopled old town, characteristic as those
of Naples, not so strident as in Madrid; above all, the sound of bells, ringing, booming, chiming,
so continuously that soon they would affect the senses like a heavy perfume always present.
One would cease to hear them, and be startled only if their clamouring tongues were silenced.

In the streets, where the processions of Semana Santa would pass, already hundreds of rush-bottomed
chairs were ranged in front of houses and shops, piled in confusion, which would be reduced
to order for to-morrow, Palm Sunday. Beyond, in the Plaza de la Constitución—scene in old days
of the bull-fight and auto-da-fé,—many men were busy putting the last touches on the crimson
velvet and gold draperies of the royal box, pounding barriers into place in the tribune in
front of the silver-like chasing of the Casa del Ayuntamiento’s Plateresque façade, or arranging
row after row of chairs in the open space opposite, leaving an aisle for the procession to
pass between.

“Now there is something to do before we drive home to the Cortijo de Santa Rufina,” said the
Cherub. “I must see about getting a box in the tribune for the week; I must find out whether
Carmona did come in by train last night. Don Ramón hasn’t suggested this plan, but I think
he would not dislike it.”

“I meant to drop out of the car, to see what I could learn myself, and join you afterwards
at home,” I said. “But you can get hold of things better than I, a stranger, can.”

“You must remain a stranger,” he supplemented my words. “If your chauffeur will stop at the
top of this narrow street, I’ll walk down it a few doors to my club, and ask for the latest
news. Carmona doesn’t honour his house in Seville too often with his presence, though his mother
is here every season, and his arrival will be the talk of the club. I can take steps too, about
a box for the show. I won’t keep you long; but you’d better wait at the Café Perla. Pilar can’t
go there without me. Oh, you may smile; but remember we’re in Spain. She must wait at the house
of a friend.”

The Cherub’s idea of a “little while” and a “long while” were always rather vague, and apt
to dovetail confusingly one into another; but knowing what it was his aim to accomplish, I
did not grudge the fifty minutes before his ample form and smiling face appeared in the doorway
of the café.

“It’s all right,” were his first words. “I felt my luck wouldn’t desert me. Who do you suppose”—and
he turned to Pilar, who had come on with him—“was the first man I ran across? No other than
Don Esteban Villaroya.”

Pilar looked a little frightened. “But he’s a friend of the Duke’s. Won’t that make it awkward?”

“No; all the better. I told him Cristóbal and my daughter and I had motored from Burgos with
an American friend, an important writer for the papers, who was going to pay us a visit. Not
an untrue word to trouble my confessor with. Don Esteban may or may not mention our meeting
to Carmona when he dines with him this evening.”

“Dines with him? Oh, I hope that won’t make mischief.”

“It won’t. Carmona arrived late last night, with his mother and guests. It seems preparations
have been going on in the house for the past fortnight; and the first thing Carmona and his
mother did was to send out half a dozen invitations for dinner this evening. Afterwards, he
managed, probably through royal influence, to get permission from the Governor to take the
party into the Alcázar by moonlight, and he’s going to have coloured illuminations, music,
and Spanish dances given by professionals in the costumes of different provinces. A grand idea,
Don Esteban thinks.”

“But why is he doing it?” asked Pilar, thoughtfully. “María purísima! It isn’t as if he were
an impulsive or hospitable man, fond of getting up impromptu entertainments. This is done in
a hurry. What can be his object? for he always has an object.”

“To amuse Lady Monica, who’s not pleased with him so far,” explained the Cherub. “And as he’s
a good Catholic, at least in appearance, to-night or the night after will be his last chance
to entertain till Semana Santa is over.”

“Somehow, I don’t feel that’s reason enough,” said Pilar, looking so troubled that I felt new
stirrings of anxiety, and must have shown it; for Pilar exclaimed that she was a “little beast”
to worry me.

“You haven’t worried me,” I protested. “Still, I think I’ll go to that entertainment at the
Alcázar.”

Pilar and her father stared. “I see what you mean,” said the girl. “You hope to walk in and
meet Lady Monica. But you can’t, because the Alcázar’s closed to the public after sunset. It
will only be open for the Duke as a favour, because he’s rich and important, and care will
be taken that no outsider slips in.”

“If there should be one more guitarist than he hired, do you think it would be noticed?” I
asked, smiling.

Pilar clapped her hands. “You’re a true lover, Don Ramón,” she exclaimed. “Ay de mi! Nobody
will ever love a little dark thing like myself, as Lady Monica is loved. I must be satisfied
with the affections of my relations, and a few others, I suppose.” Great eyes lifted sadly
ceiling-ward as she spoke, then cast down with distracting play of long curled lashes. Spanish
after all to her finger-tips, this María del Pilar Inés, despite her Irish quickness. Poor Dick!

“You believe I could manage it, then?”

“I believe you will. Señor Waring has told me about the masked ball, and how you played Romeo
to somebody’s Juliet.”

“The difficulty will be to get hold of the impresario.”

Pilar looked at her watch. “They’ll know at the Alcázar who’s been engaged. There’s an hour
and a half yet before closing time.”

“What if you and I take a stroll through?” suggested Dick.

“We’ll all take a stroll through,” said Pilar, “and papa shall find out. You know, he can always
make everybody tell him anything in five minutes. Even Cristóbal and I have never been able
to keep a secret from him. If I’d planned to elope, he would only have to whisper and smile,
for me to tell all, even if it meant my going into a convent directly after.”

“Yes, we must go to the Alcázar now, or it will be too late,” said the Cherub, with an indulgent
twinkle at his spoiled daughter.

The car took us to the gate of the Alcázar, a gate of that unsuggestive Moorish simplicity
which purposely hid all splendours of decoration from any save favoured eyes. The guardian
knew and evidently respected Colonel O’Donnel; but with apologies which comprehended the whole
party, he regretted that he could not let us in. The King was to arrive in a few days, returning
from his yachting trip to the Canaries, and would live in the Alcázar which was being got ready
for him. From now until the day after his departure, the Alcázar was to be closed to the public.

This was just, and as it should be, admitted the Cherub; but we were not the public. We were
special ones, even as special as the Duke of Carmona who would entertain his friends there
that evening. Surely the guardian must know that the O’Donnel family was on terms of friendship
with the Governor of the Alcázar, who would suffer severe pains of the heart if he heard that
such visitors had been turned away. Thus the good Cherub continued to whisper. And whether
or no coin changed hands I cannot tell; but certain it is that in less than the five minutes
allowed by Pilar for the working of her father’s fascinations, we were inside the forbidden
precincts, accompanied by a lamb-like attendant.

It was from him that we must learn what we wished to know; but it would be unwise to betray
a premature thirst for information on any subject save the history or beauties of the Alcázar.
Asking a question now and then of our guide, we wandered from patio to patio, from room to
room of that wonderful royal dwelling once called “the house of Cæsar.” Many a rude shock and
vicissitude had it sustained when Goths fought for it with Romans, when Moors seized it from
Christians, when Christians won it back, and conducted themselves within its jewelled walls
in ways unworthy of their faith and boasted chivalry, yet the beauties which Pedro the Cruel
restored in admiring imitation of the Alhambra, glowed still with undimmed splendour, in the
sunshine of this twentieth century afternoon.

If I had not been preoccupied by my own private and extremely modern anxieties, I should have
let imagination work the spell it longed to work, and make of me some humble character gliding
shadow-like, but ever observant, through tale after tale of the “Arabian Nights.” In just such
a palace as this had the Seven Calenders lost each an eye; behind any one of these fretted
arches might one come upon a king, half man, half jet-black marble. The most captious of genies
could have found no fault with the Hall of the Ambassadors save the absence of the roc’s egg;
and despite my impatience the storied enchantment of the place soon had me in its grip.

Scheherezade, I said to myself, could have invented no tales to surpass in thrilling interest
the scenes which had been enacted here. The drama of widowed Egilona and her handsome Moorish
prince, ruined by her love; the tragedy of Abu Said, done to death by Pedro for the sake of
his “fair ruby, great as a racket ball,” and the store of gems for which men still search secretly
in hidden nooks of the Alcázar; the murder of the young Master of Santiago, who came to Pedro
as an honoured guest; the love story of Maria de Padilla, whose spirit, the guardian whispered,
could be seen to this day flitting in moonlight and shadow along her favourite garden walks,
or trailing white robes through rooms which had been hers.

“Perhaps, as the moon is full, Maria will appear to-night in the garden to the Duke of Carmona
and his guests,” said Pilar; and I knew from this preface that our probation was at an end.

The attendant laughed. “Perhaps,” he replied; “but I think there will be too much noise to
please her. The Duke has engaged a troupe of dancers and guitarists to entertain his friends.”

“No doubt King Don Pedro used to amuse his in the same way,” remarked the Cherub, “employing
the forerunners of Ramiro Olivero and his school maybe.”

“It is Ramiro Olivero who performs to-night,” said the attendant, playing into our hands.

“Of course! He is the favoured one in such affairs,” assented the Cherub. “It ought to be a
pretty entertainment, and interesting to the Duke’s English guests. It will be somewhere in
the gardens?”

“In the lower garden of the Moorish kiosk,” was the unsuspecting reply.

Pilar looked at me, and her eyes said, “The key you wanted is in your hand.”

                                  XXVII

MOONLIGHT IN THE GARDEN

When the Cherub dies and is gathered to his Irish and Spanish fathers (far distant be the day!)
he will not know a happy moment in Paradise unless he is doing something ingenuously kind for
somebody. It is my conviction that he will have to be made a guardian angel; and I mentioned
this theory to him as he took me to the house of Ramiro Olivero, ex-bull-fighter, present professor
of Spanish dancing.

The others were waiting in the car, as, according to the Cherub’s plan of campaign, he and
I were to visit Olivero alone.

We climbed many stairs to the flat where the celebrated man lives and conducts his school for
dancing. He it was who came to the door, and it was a sight worth seeing to watch his somewhat
hard, middle-aged features relax in response to cherubic murmurings.

Colonel O’Donnel remembered Señor Olivero since the time when he was a banderillero; oh, incomparably
the most brilliant banderillero of his day. Then, afterwards, what triumphs as a torero! Ah,
that was something for an old admirer to remember. Not to regret, naturally, since the señor
was as great an artist in his present profession as in that other doubtless sacrificed to family
affections.

This gentleman whom he (Colonel O’Donnel) now ventured to introduce was from England, travelling
with a friend from the States who wrote articles on Spain for well-known journals. The American
could speak no Spanish, but with the gentleman from England it was like the native tongue.
Therefore it was he who most often attended important ceremonies, and made notes for his friend
to work up into articles. This entertainment in which Señor Olivero was assisting the Duke
of Carmona, for instance; it would be all that was characteristic of Spain, as well as beautiful.
If the señor would allow the gentleman from England to enter the Alcázar as one of his guitarists,
an article could be made for the great American newspapers which would not only be a credit
to the journalist, but would widely advertise the skill of Señor Olivero and his pupils.

If every man has his price, it was not derogatory to his merits that these pearls of flattery
should be the price which bought Olivero. Not a penny was to be paid for the favour. When the
word “money” was hinted, rather than spoken, the ex-hero of the bull-ring waved it away with
a superb gesture. But he would be glad to see the articles when they appeared; and this was
promised, for Dick must write them for the neglected papers he was supposed to represent.

In return for the promise (and the compliments), it was arranged that I should present myself
at his house about ten o’clock (the dance was timed to begin at 10.45), there dress for my
part, and be furnished with a guitar. Once inside the Alcázar I need not play upon the instrument;
but, said Olivero, it was well that I should be able to do so if called upon. My costume was
to be a short chulo jacket and tight-hipped, loose-legged grey trousers, with a low-collared,
unstarched shirt, and a broad-brimmed grey sombrero de Cordoba. With this hat, well tipped
over my eyes, in moonlight or even spasmodic rose-and-gold bursts of coloured fire, recognition
would be impossible at a distance; and I meant to keep at a distance from all the Duke’s party—with
one exception.

By the time the plan was mapped out, it was nearly seven o’clock, but the O’Donnels still urged
me to dine at the Cortijo de Santa Rufina. The Gloria would eat up the six miles distance in
ten minutes; I could bathe and dress before 8.15, when dinner would be ready (a telegram had
been sent to the servants from Cordoba), and rested and refreshed, I could start for Seville
in the car again at half-past nine.

So we flashed out across the Guadalquivir, by way of the bridge of Isabel Segunda, into that
strange suburb which gave Trajan birth, and my family their name; ancient Trajana, now Triana,
town of potters, picadores, and gypsies.

Dark-browed boys played toreros to our car as bull, their coats muletas, sticks their banderillas,
yelling and springing lithely aside as the enemy rushed on them. Girls, handsome as Carmen,
flung us flowers, staring boldly eye to eye; and this was my welcome to the place near which
the Casa Trianas had once lived and thought themselves great!

Almost could I have seen the towers of the old house—now the property of the King—as we passed
into open country again; but I did not speak, nor did the others, though the thought in my
mind must have been in Pilar’s and Colonel O’Donnel’s.

Five miles more, through falling dusk and sweet country scents and we turned off the main road
into another, gleaming white as a path of snow in the opal twilight. Then, in a wide-reaching
plantation of olives, spraying silver on a ruddy soil where glimmered irrigation tanks and
grinding mills, we came upon a large, irregular clump of white buildings grouped together,
and made one by a high wall with an open belfry at one corner.

“Here we are at home!” exclaimed the Cherub with a contented sigh, as he gently touched Ropes’
shoulder. “Welcome, dear friends, to the Cortijo de Santa Rufina. It, and all within its walls,
is at your disposition.”

We drove in through a wide gate in the outer wall, where there was a clamour of greeting from
the steward, many servants, and more dogs, dogs of all races, who selected Pilar for their
wildest demonstrations. In a second she was out of the car, and half drowned in a wave of tumultuous
doghood. Laughing, shaking hands with the servants, patting or suppressing greyhounds, collies,
setters, retrievers, she had never seemed so charming. This was the real Pilar—Pilar at home;
the Pilar it would be next to impossible to uproot from such associations. Again, poor Dick!
And now he no longer tried to hide the loving admiration in his eyes. I think he would even
have done his best to fondle a wild bull or two of her acquaintance had they been among the
friends who gave her welcome.

Away boomed the Gloria to the stables—the sole garage at the Cortijo—while we were bidden through
the Moorish entrance-porch and wrought-iron cancela into a patio surrounded on all sides by
an arcade, roofed with green and brown tiling. The supporting pillars were of pale pink brick,
not marble, and the pavement was of brick also, interset with a pattern of small blue tiles.
But the tiles were old and good; from a carved stone basin in the middle of the court sprang
the tall crystal stem of a fountain, blossoming into diamonds; pearly arum lilies, pink azaleas,
and pale green hydrangeas bloomed in huge white and blue and yellow pots from Triana, of the
same beautiful shapes made before Santa Justa and Santa Rufina knew they were saints, and undertook
to keep the Giralda from falling.

The windows leading into the rooms surrounding the patio were large as doors, and all were
hospitably open, giving through thin curtains glimpses of old furniture carefully grouped to
please a woman’s dainty taste. Pilar again—always Pilar! Here were her lares and penates; and
she was a goddess among lesser household gods. I knew that it would be safer for Dick to say
a hasty good-bye upon the threshold; but I knew also that no power on earth could force him
to do it.

“This is only a farm, you know,” said the girl, meekly, all the while dimpling with pride in
her home and what she had made it; “for we are only farmers, aren’t we, Papa.”

Our rooms—Dick’s and mine—were not overstocked with furniture; but there were two or three
things for which an antiquary would have pawned his soul. On one side, our windows looked upon
the patio; on the other, we gazed through iron bars over olives and meadows where grain was
green. There was no sound save the tinkling rain of the fountain, and now and then the sleepy
note of a bird, or a far-away lowing of cattle—perhaps the welcoming bellow of Vivillo, the
brown bull which was the sole possession of Carmona coveted by Pilar.

The two servants who waited at dinner were wreathed in smiles at seeing again their master
and mistress; and their occasional furtive glances of interest in my direction made me wonder
if they had not received mysterious instructions as to how they must answer any questions concerning
me. But, whatever those instructions might be, I was sure they would be loyally carried out;
for the Cherub is a man servants would obey through torture until death, if these days were
as the old.

At half-past nine Ropes was ready to spin me back into Seville. We arrived earlier than need
be; and having made an appointment to meet at a quiet hotel, where Ropes would await me from
half-past eleven till half-past twelve, I decided to walk past Carmona’s house and reconnoitre.

I knew where to find it, in the Calle de las Dueñas; but if I had hoped for a tell-tale glimpse
within, as in a London or Parisian mansion, I was disappointed. Once a Moorish palace, it showed
a closed, secretive front to the narrow street. But I knew, for I had read, that within there
were six courtyards, ninety marble pillars, half a dozen fountains, a garden of orange and
magnolia trees, with myrtle hedges clipped to represent the ducal arms; that there were vast
treasures of statuary, pictures by Velasquez, Murillo, and Alonso Cano; gold-inlaid plate armour;
tapestry from the Netherlands not to be surpassed at the Royal Palace at Madrid.

I knew that these splendours would loom large in the eyes of Lady Vale-Avon, and might count
for something even with Monica, who confessed to a love of all things beautiful. I thought
of the famous Carmona jewels, which would belong to the wife of the Duke, while she lived,
as they had belonged to generations of Duchesses. Above all, I thought of the incomparable
Blanca Laguna pearl and its glistening maids of honour, which, by this time perhaps, had been
shown to Monica. There were few girls in Spain, or in the world, I remembered hearing my mother
say, who could resist that pearl as a bride. And now it was offered to Monica, a penniless
girl of eighteen, whose beauty formed her sole dowry.

There, behind the cold reserve of those white walls with the shut, brass-studded doors and
barred windows, she was being fêted by the Duke, dining on gold plate, in a tapestried room
fragrant with orange flowers. I could see the pictures. I could see the look in Carmona’s eyes
as they turned to her, saying, “all this is yours if you will have it.” And Carmona’s eyes
were handsome eyes; I had to admit that, in justice.

Would she hold true to me—true to a man with no palaces, no lands, no priceless pearls, and
only half as many hundreds a year as her other lover had thousands? Would she be able to resist
her mother, now that mother had seen with her own eyes how much there was to fight for and to win?

The question would come. But with it came a vision of Monica herself, pure and sweet as beautiful,
loyal and loving as she was lovely. And I said to myself, “Yes, she will be true.”

It was with the clear ringing of these words in my mind that I turned my back upon the house
of Carmona.

Once I had passed into the Alcázar with Olivero’s band of dancers and guitarists I was free
to do as I pleased. And I pleased to escape from my laughing, chattering companions before
the arrival of the Duke and his guests, and the illuminations in their honour. There was no
better place to wait and watch for the opportunity I wanted, than in the mock-Moorish kiosk
at the end of the lower garden. From there I could see without being seen; and the moment a
chance came I should be ready to take it.

It was early still, but Olivero lost no time in marshalling his little army into place, that
they might make a good effect as a tableau vivant when the great people came. He seated his
six men with guitars, their sombreros at precisely the right angle on their glossy black heads,
and in a row of chairs in front six young women in black dresses with black lace mantillas,
the red and yellow ribbons of their castanets already in their hands. Then, at intervals, he
grouped the dancers, youths, and pretty girls, carefully dressed in the costumes of different
provinces, making a bouquet of bright colours in the light of a few concealed lamps which supplemented
the silver radiance of the moon, now almost at the zenith.

The minutes passed. The dancers talked in subdued tones which scarcely disturbed the nightingales.
A breeze rustled the crisp leaves of the orange trees and myrtle hedges; far away the voice
of the watchman told the hour of eleven, echoed by the chiming bells of a church clock; and
the last stroke had not sounded when there was a burst of merry voices in a distant avenue.
Carmona and his friends had come—late, of course—or there could have been no Andalucíans among
them; and suddenly, as if on a signal, the gardens pulsed with rose-coloured light. In the
pink blaze I saw Monica, slender and fair as a lily, in a white dress sparkling with silver;
but I had only time to see that she walked beside Carmona, when the rose flame died down and
left the garden pure and peaceful under the moon.

For an instant the soft light seemed darkness, and I lost the white figure. When it sprang
to my eyes again in a sharp emerald flash, while all the hidden fountains in the garden walks
spouted jewels, others were grouped round it; only the gold crown of rippling hair shone out
clear as a star for me among other women’s dark coils and braids.

Old ebony chairs with crimson velvet cushions and the Carmona arms in heavy gilding, had been
sent to the Alcázar from the Duke’s house, for the entertainment. The party sat down, and the
dancing began, to the flamenco music of guitars and the clacking of castanets; the fandango,
the bolero, the malagueña, the chaquera vella; all the classical dances of old Spain, and each
one a variant on the theme of love, the woman coy, coquettishly retreating; the man persuading
or demanding, the woman yielding in passionate abandonment at last.

In the midst of a sevillana I came out from the shadows of the kiosk and walked without a sound
of rattling pebble or cracking twig, along a path which the moon had not yet found.

The high backs of the ebony chairs were turned to me. I could not even see the heads of the
people who sat in them; but I had watched them take their places, and I knew that Monica’s
chair was the outside one on the end, at the right.

Everyone was absorbed in watching the dance. As it approached its tempestuous climax of joy
and love, I moved into the deep shadow of a magnolia tree, close to Monica—so close that, reaching
out from behind the round trunk which screened me, I touched her hand.

With a start, she glanced up, expecting perhaps to find that the breeze had blown a rose-branch
across her fingers. Instead, she saw my face; for I had taken off the wide-brimmed grey sombrero
and bared my head to her.

For a second she looked straight into my eyes, as if she doubted that she saw aright. Then,
an unbelievable thing happened. Her eyes grew cold as glass. Her lips tightened into a line
which I had not dreamed their soft curves could take. Her youth and beauty froze under my gaze.
With a haughty lifting of her brows, and an indescribable movement of her shoulder which could
mean nothing but scornful indifference, she turned away as if impatient at having lost a gesture
of the dancers.

Astounded, I stepped back; and so vast was the chasm of my amazement that I floundered in it
bewildered, unable even to suffer.

Then came a pang of such pain and anger as I had never known—anger not against the girl, but
against Carmona; and the knife which pierced me was dipped in the poison of jealously. My impulse
was to leap out from the shadow and strangle him. My hands tingled for his neck, and through
the drumming of the blood in my ears I could hear the crack his spine would make as I twisted
it. For that instant I was a madman. Then, something that was myself conquered.

Horror of the savage thing just born in me overflowed in an icy flood that swept it, drowning,
out of my soul. But never again, so long as I may live, shall I condemn a man who kills another
in one blind moment of rage.

Even when the red glaze was gone from before my eyes, I could not trust myself to stand there,
looking at Carmona as he smiled and patronized the dancers by clapping his hands. I turned
away, not stopping until I had regained the kiosk.

There I sat down, elbows on knees, head in my hands, trying to analyse that look on Monica’s
face, trying to tell myself that I must have mis-read it—that such an expression as I imagined
could not have been there for me.

Perhaps, as I suddenly appeared behind a veil of flickering moonlight and shadow she had not
known who I was. She had mistaken me for some impertinent stranger, and rather than give an
alarm, she had hoped that a frown might rid her of the intruder. Then, I had gone without giving
her a second chance to recognize me.

After a few minutes of such reflections, I almost persuaded myself that I had been a fool and
was wholly to blame for what I suffered. At least, I said, I owed it to her to make sure that
the look had been for me, and the suspense must end to-night. I would know, even if I made
her answer me under the eyes of Carmona and the others.

But a moment later I saw that I need not be driven to such extremes.

The first part of the dance was over; the Duke and his guests were walking through the gardens
in the interval. They were coming my way—coming to the kiosk. As they advanced, I retreated
into shadow. I let the group linger at the kiosk, admiring the beautiful azulejos; I let them
move on; then, as Monica loitered purposely behind the others, drooping and evidently sad,
I put myself in front of her.

“Monica,” I said, “what has happened? You—”

The girl flung up her head, and though there was a glitter of tears in her eyes and her face
was white under the moon, she stared defiance. “Don’t speak to me,” she said. “I never wish
to see you again. I’m going to marry the Duke of Carmona.”

                                  XXVIII

LET YOUR HEART SPEAK

Men do not kill themselves for such things. Fools, or cowards, or children may; but not men
who are worthy the name. Yet there was no joy of life left in me, as I went out of the Alcázar
garden, having had my answer.

Love cannot die in an hour, and I loved Monica still, though I said that she was not the girl
to whom I had dedicated my soul in worship.

She had let me follow her, only to say at last: “I never wish to see you again. I’m going to
marry the Duke of Carmona.”

After all, she had proved herself a docile daughter. She had seen what the house of a grandee
of Spain can be like. She had seen the Blanca Laguna pearl. Poor child of eighteen years, brought
up to know poverty and to loathe it; was I to let my love turn to hate because she was not
an angel, but a woman like others?

A despairing pity and a sense of hopeless loss weighed upon my spirit with such heaviness as
I had never known. Not only had I lost the girl I loved, but there was no such girl; she was
a dream, and I had waked up. That was all; but it seemed the end of everything.

My errand in Spain was finished, or rather broken short. She did not want me any more. The
sooner I took myself out of her life and let her forget what must now seem childish folly,
the better. I might have known—she was so young; and she had warned me of disaster when she
said, “Don’t leave me alone.”

I went to Olivero’s flat and changed my clothes; then to the hotel where Ropes and the car
were waiting. For the first time since we had come into Spain, I drove, “like a demon,” Ropes’
surprised face said, though his tongue was discreet; and the wild rush through the air was
wine to thirsty lips.

At the Cortijo de Santa Rufina they were all sitting in the patio in floods of moonlight, the
great awning which gave shade by day, fully rolled back.

“You see,” exclaimed Pilar, “we sat up for you. Well, how did it go off?”

I heard myself laughing. It did not feel a pleasant laugh, but I was glad to think that it
sounded like any other. “Oh, it went off exactly as I might have expected,” I said, knowing
that it was useless to hide my humiliation, though I might hide my misery. “And consequently,
my car and I will also go off, to-morrow. As for Dick, he must do as he pleases; but I advise
him, now he’s here, to stay for the Semana Santa.”

“What do you mean?” asked Pilar, almost letting fall the guitar on which she had been playing.
“Has—has Lady Monica promised to go with you—to-morrow?”

“Not at all,” said I. “But what she’s promised to another man makes it better that I should
go. She’s engaged to Carmona.”

“I don’t believe it,” cried Pilar.

“I shouldn’t, if anyone but herself had told me.”

“She said it?”

“In exactly those words. She said too, that she didn’t want to see me again.”

“Oh—oh!” breathed Pilar. “Thank Heaven for that. You frightened me horribly—just for a moment.”

I stared. “And now—”

“Now I know there’s some mistake—dreadful, but not too dreadful to clear up.”

I laughed again, as bitterly as I felt this time. “Extraordinary idea! Because she says she
doesn’t want to see me, there’s a mistake—”

“Of course. Surely you aren’t so cold-hearted, so disloyal, so—so stupid as to believe her?
But tell me instantly all about it—everything; every word; every look.”

“Easily done,” I said, “if it won’t bore you all. There were very few of either; but what there
were left nothing to the imagination.”

“Imagination indeed!” exclaimed Pilar. “But go on.”

So I went on, and she listened to the end without interruption, as did the two others, who
were only men, and therefore had no comments to make upon such matters.

As I told the wretched story in as few and as bald words as possible, Pilar sat grave-eyed,
tense-lipped as Portia in the Court of Justice before her turn to plead. When I finished she
was silent for a moment, I thought because, after all, she found herself with nothing to say.
But, when her father in his compassion would have begun some murmur of consolation, she broke
out quickly, “I suppose she is engaged to the Duke, or she wouldn’t have said so.”

“Not much doubt of that,” I assented.

“Nor any doubt of her real feelings. Poor little girl, I know she’s wishing she could die to-night.
Those devils! Yes, I will say it, Papa. I shall be forgiven, for they are. They’ve told her
some hateful lie, and made her so desperate she was ready to do anything. Why, it’s just come
to me; there’s only one thing that would make a girl who loves a man do what she’s done.”

“What?” I broke in, breathless; for Pilar’s fire had flamed into my blood now, and I waited
for her answer as a man waits for an antidote to poison.

“Believing he’s in love with someone else.”

“How could she believe that? Who is there—” I stopped. My eyes met Pilar’s, and she blushed,
stammering as she hurried bravely on. “The greatest nonsense, of course. But—but—oh, don’t
you remember how she looked that evening at Manzanares when we saw her last? So wistful, as
if there were something on her mind she mustn’t tell? I caught her looking at me once or twice
as if she were wondering—they must have begun, even then, to upset her mind, poor, lonely child;
but the worst hadn’t happened; she was only a little doubtful. If you could have spoken to
her, or if I—”

“I did write,” I said, “though I’ve always been afraid something went wrong with that letter.”

“Ah!” Pilar caught at this, and would have the whole story with every detail. I even found
myself confessing my old presentiment, the fancy that Monica was calling for me to help her.

“I believe she was, calling and praying. Of course she never got the letter. What was in it?
If you don’t mind my asking?”

“I said, a crisis seemed to be coming, and she must make up her mind to let me take her away.”

“A splendid letter to fall into her mother’s hands. Did you sign your real name?”

“No name at all. I wrote in a hurry, and—”

“That’s lucky. But even if you had, Lady Vale-Avon couldn’t have shown such a letter to the
Duke, he’s too Spanish—too Moorish, I ought to say. She wouldn’t have dared, as she wants him
for a son-in-law.”

“That occurred to me.”

“But there aren’t many other things she wouldn’t dare, to get rid of such a danger as you.
If she got the letter—and I’m sure she did—there was your handwriting at her mercy. Supposing she—”

“I know what’s in your mind. But I don’t think such things are done—out of novels.”

“Oh, aren’t they; when people are clever enough? I know of one case myself. And the girl’s
life was spoiled. Lady Monica’s shan’t be though, if I can help it.”

“You’re taking a great deal for granted,” I said. But I felt as if the radiance of heaven were
pouring down upon me, instead of the pensive moonlight.

“Doesn’t your heart tell you I’m right?” cried Pilar.

“Yes!” I answered. “Yes, you good angel, it does.”

                                   XXIX

THE GARDEN OF FLAMING LILIES

The voice of some maid servant singing a copla waked me early in the morning, after an hour
or two of sleep.

    El amor y la naranja
    se parecen infinito;
    Que por muy dulces que sean
    de agrio tienen su poquito.(1)

Yes, always a little bitter, I said to myself. But if for me there were after all to be some
sweetness left?

Last night before parting, the Cherub, Dick and I had talked matters over from every point
of view. I was only too thankful to take the advice of one girl on behalf of another, and give
to Monica the benefit of that doubt which at first had not seemed admissible. But even Pilar
confessed that Monica’s engagement to Carmona made our part a hundred times more difficult.

Whatever her motive had been—revenge upon me for supposed disloyalty, dread of her mother,
or awakened ambition--she had in any case consented to marry him, and Pilar suggested that
the dinner invitations had been sent out as an excuse for a public announcement, which would
more firmly bind her to her promise. The news would have flown all over Seville in twenty-four
hours; when the King arrived on Tuesday Carmona would certainly lose no time in telling him;
Lady Vale-Avon would not wait for Monica to write to the Princess, but would probably wire;
and no matter what my private anxieties might be, for Monica’s sake I must do nothing openly.
As for defying Carmona to use his knowledge of my true name, and challenging him to fight,
that must not be thought of. Monica’s fair fame would never survive such a scandal, especially
in Spain, where a girl’s reputation is as easily damaged as the down on a butterfly’s wing.

But, as the Cherub said, there are many roads which lead to the centre of the world. He had
learned at his club that the Duke had lent his box in the tribune to a friend, for such processions
as he and his household did not care to see. That friend was a member of the club, and through
him the Cherub had found out that the box in question was next to the royal box which would
be occupied by the King, the Infanta Doña María Teresa, and her husband. Immediately upon making
this discovery, the Cherub had begun to move heaven and earth to obtain a box for himself,
either behind, in front of, or on one side of Carmona’s box. He did not know yet if he should
succeed, for things were not done in a moment in Spain. Of course all the boxes were already
subscribed for the whole week by members of the aristocracy and other persons of importance
in Seville; but, then, the Cherub had friends and acquaintances in every class. If it were
a question of money, money would not be spared; if it were a question of a favour for a favour
in return, that favour would be given. There was hope that the thing might be arranged; and
once Pilar came within speaking distance of Monica, nothing short of sudden death could prevent
her from telling the girl the truth, vowing by all the saints that she had been deceived for
the one purpose of separating her from me. If Monica could be made to believe that, she would
have courage to be true in spite of all; and then it would be for me to save her from keeping
the engagement into which she had been tricked.

As for my going to Carmona’s house and trying to see Monica, such a plan appeared useless,
as I should certainly not be allowed to come near her. Therefore I must wait with such patience
as I could, and let my friends help me in the subtle ways favoured in Spain.

Now, Palm Sunday had dawned crystal clear; but Pilar had explained that nobody occupied the
boxes and chairs to see the procession of palms in the morning; that, though it was pretty
to see, it was not one of the great sights; and, as one must be waiting early outside the cathedral,
it was unlikely that anyone from Carmona’s house would be there. Still there was the chance,
and I could not afford to miss it; so the O’Donnels offered to go with me into Seville, Dick,
of course, being of the party.

Consequently, every one at the Cortijo was astir by six; and before seven Dick and I were in
the patio, just in time to greet Pilar utterly fascinating in a mantilla.

She was dressed as a Spanish woman of the upper class should be dressed on Palm Sunday; and
though the tight-fitting, rich black brocade silk which she wore would, in any other country,
have seemed a costume not for young girlhood but for middle age, it suited her wonderfully.
Her clear-skinned, heart-shaped face, with its great soft eyes and red lips, was beautiful
in the cloudy frame of black lace; and her piled hair, of so dark a brown as to appear black,
except when the sunlight burnished threads of gold in its masses, looked ruddy as the leaves
of a copper-beech gleaming through the figured lace.

“By Jove!” exclaimed Dick, jumping to his feet when he saw her. No more than that; but Pilar
was woman enough to understand the value of the compliment; and she smiled, patting the flounce
of her mantilla into still more graceful folds on her breast.

“You think me nice like this?” she asked. “I’m proud of my mantilla, you know. It came to me
from my great-grandmother, as all the best ones do come to Spanish girls; and I’ve two lovely
white mantillas which I wear on great feast days when I want to be very beautiful.”

“At bull-fights?” asked Dick, his eyes adoring her in a way he would have laughed at in any
other man only a few weeks ago.

“I don’t go to bull-fights,” said Pilar. “I love the poor bulls and horses so much, it would
make me sad to see them die. Though, if I were a bull, I would myself choose a brave death
in the arena, after a life of five glorious years, rather than the slaughter-house, or a weary
existence of labour till old age or overstrain finished me. But I drive in the paseo on the
bull-fight days, and for the feria. Ay de mi! A girl in Spain has few other chances to make
herself pretty for the world to see, unless she lives in Madrid; and if it were not for the
bull-fights, I suppose many girls would never get husbands. But, Our Lady be thanked, I do
not have to look for one.”

Did she mean that there was any understanding with Don Cipriano?

I knew this was the thought which flashed through Dick’s mind. And if Pilar had been desirable
in motoring days, she was irresistible at home.

Before eight o’clock the Gloria was at the gates, and twenty minutes later we were on foot
in the street of the Gran Capitán, mingling with the crowd who waited for the first procession
of Semana Santa to pour out from the cathedral doors. But the crowd was not a dense one, and
the face I hoped to see was not there. “It will be a long time before anything happens,” said
the Cherub. “Here, when a thing should be at eight, it is at nine, or maybe half-past. What
does a little time matter? But mass is being said. Who knows that the old Duchess may not have
had a religious fit, and come to hear it, bringing her friends?”

No more was needed to make me anxious to go in; and we entered the cathedral, which is, to
my mind, the most beautiful, inspiring, and poetic in the world.

The two O’Donnels flitted away in the dusk, mysterious as the twilight of the gods, and we
guessed that they were going to hear mass. Soon they found us again. They had not seen those
for whom we searched; but the procession was starting.

We made haste out before it, and none too soon, for it billowed forth after us in a glitter
of gold and purple vestments, and tall, bleached palm-branches like beams of moonlight streaming
against the blue of the morning sky.

“They’re not here,” said Pilar, when the last gleaming crucifix and waving palm, blessed by
the bishop, had disappeared. “I was sure they wouldn’t come. And—it does seem hard to disappoint
you—but I’m afraid they won’t be in their box this afternoon. Oh, we shall go, of course! But
that will be the time for the Duke to lend the Conde de Ambulato his box. Thursday will be
the great day, when the King will be in the royal box, and will walk with his cofradia of the
cigarette-makers before Our Lady of Victory. You know how anxious the Duke is to win back the
favour of the royal family; and he’ll hardly think it worth while to sit through the hours
of a procession unless he can be next door to the King, with a chance of an invitation to his box.”

This was discouraging; still, I determined to be in the crowd during the afternoon; and I knew
well that, though the splendid show of Semana Santa was an old story to the O’Donnels, they
would not fail me for a moment.

Dick shamefacedly bought from one of many vendors an armful of blessed palms for Pilar to tie
under the house windows, as a protection against the rage of thunder-storms throughout the
coming year; and we drove to the country with the great glistening fronds blowing behind the
motor-car like giant plumes.

I spent hours writing, tearing up, and rewriting a letter to Monica which Pilar was to try
and deliver if she could, and when she could. We lunched and did our best to make careless
conversation, as if we were not anxious and excited—Dick and I for our own selfish reasons;
the two others in sympathy. We talked of Seville, past and present—once “Sultana of the South,”
still beautiful and gay, though her reign is over. “We are very happy even now, among ourselves,
we Sevillanos,” said the Cherub. “You should see a tertulia, if you want to know how families
can enjoy themselves together. But there’s another side of the picture, too. English and American
people—there are a few—accuse us of being unsociable. They say we never give invitations to
luncheons and dinners as people of other countries do; that a few calls are exchanged, and
that is all, in an intercourse, it may be, of many years.”

“Oh, I know what they say!” laughed Pilar. “I heard an American girl give a friend of hers
a description of families she knew in Seville. ‘You go to call,’ said she; ‘and if the ladies
are at home (they won’t be if they can help it), you’re shown into a shut-up drawing-room smelling
of mustiness. In front of the fireplace, if there is any, or else the brazier-table, a hard
yellow or red satin sofa is drawn up, an armchair on each side. All the rest of the furniture’s
ranged in a straight row round the wall. It’s in the afternoon, but you wait till the ladies
dress, because if they’re in they’re sure to be in wrappers, unless it’s so late that their
carriage is ready for the paseo. After you’re nearly gone to sleep, they come, and you talk
of any uninteresting things they can think of; never interesting ones, because they’re kept
for intimate friends’ gossip; and the girls simper and stare as if you were a curiosity, because
you’re allowed to walk in the street without a maid.’ That’s being ‘sociable’ in Seville, according
to the American girl; and I’m afraid that she’s right from a foreigner’s point of view.”

All this, to amuse us; but unfortunately it was far from amusing to Dick. He sat looking introspective,
and wondering no doubt, if Pilar meant to hint that, so far as the door of her heart was concerned,
foreigners might save themselves the trouble of knocking.

Seeing him taciturn, as hostess she felt it her duty to console him, so when luncheon was over
an invitation to go and visit Vivillo, the beloved bull, was delivered to all, with an especially
beguiling look at Dick. He accepted with suspicious alacrity, and to please her I said yes;
while the Cherub, who was evidently longing for a siesta, shrugged his shoulders dutifully.
It seemed that we could see the pasture which was Vivillo’s drawing-room without trespassing
upon Carmona’s land, on which I should have been loth to set my foot, even for Pilar; but when,
after twenty minutes’ walk across meadows, we arrived at the hedge which divided the Duke’s
ganaderia from Colonel O’Donnel’s farm, Dick would not be satisfied with a distant inspection
of the grazing bulls. Pilar (denuded of her mantilla, but still in the black brocade, ready
for the afternoon in Seville) was going to pay a friendly call upon her darling, and Dick was
resolved upon an introduction.

Pilar cried gaily to a herdsman visible in the distance, and joyously obedient to the girl’s
evidently familiar voice, the young fellow came running towards us, garrocha in hand. Between
him and the hedge which separated the two properties, was a deep ditch which no bull, save
in a state of fury, would care to jump. But not far away a long plank lay half hidden in rich
grass, and the ganadero dragged it nearer, without a question, as if he knew already what was
expected of him. Having pushed it across the ditch, to form a bridge at the spot where the
hedge was thinnest, he took off his hat, and welcomed the gracious señor and señorita home.
Vivillo, said he, was well, but would be the better for a sight of the señorita, who was the
one human being he had seemed to love since the day of the tienta which had proved him brave.

Yes, there he was—the “lively one,” well named indeed!—grazing for the moment off there to
the south-east. Could not the señorita see his brown back among the grey and black ones, farthest
away? But she had only to call. Vivillo knew her voice and would answer to it as to no other.
It was really a marvel. And was it true that she had begun negotiating for his purchase? Ah,
it was a pity that such a toro bravo would not have his chance to fight in some splendid corrida,
where the noblest bulls of Spain must meet the most skilled of the espadas. He—Mateo—had often
thought what a grand spectacle it would be to see Fuentes and Vivillo together. But—well, better
waste the best bull that ever grazed on these pastures, and please the señorita. For her interests
it was a good thing that the Señor Duque seldom or never troubled to come and see los toros,
for if his eye once lit upon Vivillo he would never part with him for any money, except for
the honour of the corrida.

“Then be sure you don’t let the Duke have a hint!” laughed Pilar, happy and fearless as a boy,
as she squeezed through the hedge and tripped across the plank, followed by Dick.

“She is perfectly safe,” said the Cherub, in answer to an uneasy look from me. “She’s as well
known over there almost as the herdsmen who tend the bulls from their birth; besides, she has
some curious influence over animals. I have never seen anything like it in another human being,
though I have read of such things. Since she was a child, I have no longer had any fear for
her over there; and Señor Waring is safe also, while he keeps with her and Mateo, unless he
were foolish enough to make some demonstration. But for me, I am no friend of los toros when
they are at home.”

Dick and Pilar were in Carmona’s pasture now, moving towards a troop of grazing bulls, magnificent
creatures whose terrible horns and silken hides (branded with double circles under a crown)
glittered in the sun. Scarcely a head was tossed in honour of the new-comers; but as Pilar
raised her girlish voice to give a peculiar call, I saw a dark form in the distance separate
itself from a group. Then a brown, lean-flanked bull, nobly armed with horns grand as the antlers
of a stag, bounded away from his companions, and rushed in so straight a line towards Pilar,
that in spite of the Cherub’s words, my heart was wrenched.

But I need not have feared. While the young herdsman and Dick stood by passive and admiring,
this toro bravo of famous fighting breed reduced his run to a canter, and trotted up to Pilar
as tamely as if he had been a belled cabestro.

The girl, opening a large knotted handkerchief which she had brought filled with sweet biscuit,
took a step or two forward to meet the bull. Nestling against his huge head, powerful enough
to bear up a horse and rider impaled upon his horns, she calmly fed the great beast from her
store. Never could there have been a more beautiful picture since the day when another bull
submitted to the caresses of Europa.

Vivillo scarcely deigned to look at Dick, who made some bids for his favour. All his chivalrous
soul of toro bravo was absorbed in pleasure at Pilar’s return, gratitude for her remembrance
of him. I would scarcely have believed that it could be real, had I not seen it.

For ten minutes she stayed, Dick close at her side, always ignored by the bull; then she returned
and walked towards us, slowly, the herdsman keeping near and Vivillo marching after in a resolute
way which would have turned grey the hair of a nervous man or woman.

But if Dick were conscious of his nerves in such an unusual situation, he did not show it.
His head was bent over Pilar’s, talking earnestly, and though she never looked up at him in
answer, once she broke out laughing, so merrily, I wondered what he had said.

In our own meadow again, safely delivered from the bulls, Pilar slipped instantly to her father’s
side and began chattering about Vivillo, who stood by the ditch looking wistfully after her
as he chewed his last biscuit. Dick and I were thus thrown together; and though Dick’s face
is no tell-tale, I guessed somehow that his mind was not as calm as his features.

“I should think that might have been a little upsetting to an amateur,” I said.

“Maybe,” answered Dick, absent-mindedly. “But it isn’t that, if I’m looking queer. Say Ramón,
I’ve done it.”

“What?”

“Proposed to a girl for the first time in my life. What’s more, I grovelled. I called Vivillo
a lamb, though at the moment he was looking more like several dozen lions. I told her if she’d
marry me, she could have him and any other bulls sitting about on our hearthrug; that we’d
have a nice big one on purpose.”

“That ought to be an inducement—even from a heretic.”

“Oh, confound you, don’t harp on that. I’m mad about the girl. I know all you’re suffering,
and if I ever put on superior airs, I take them back and swallow them.”

Even a man heartbroken would have had to grin; and Pilar had persuaded me not to be heartbroken
yet. If I laughed, I sympathized too, and liked Dick better than ever because we were eating
the same bitter-sweet orange of which the voice had sung. It seemed that Pilar had neither
accepted nor refused him, but had asked for time to think; and he would have been a little
encouraged if she had not suddenly said, “Don Cipriano loves bulls.”

At five o’clock we spun into Seville, with the car, for nobody knew at what time the procession
might begin; nobody ever did know, it appeared. And Pilar was no longer merrily boyish, but
feminine and seductive again in her black mantilla.

The vast oblong of the Plaza de la Constitución was already humming with the excitement of
a moving crowd. The lane between chairs and tribune was thronged with the poor of the town
and peasants from the country, who would have no seats and must press for places to see the
procession; but there was no ill-natured pushing, and gentlest care was taken not to crush
the toddling, star-eyed children who tumbled under people’s feet. Soldiers laughed and edged
their way past clinging groups of pretty girls. Civil guards, looking as if they had stepped
out of old pictures, strove to keep order, their shouts lost among the cries which filled the
air; cries of water-sellers bearing big earthen vessels; cries of those who wheeled cargoes
of roasted peanuts in painted ships; cries of crab-sellers; cries of shabby old men, and neat,
white-capped boys, hawking fresh-fried calientes, sugared cakes, and all kinds of dulces on
napkin-covered trays.

English and American tourists in panamas wandered through the throng searching for their numbered
chairs; vendors of seats shouted reduced prices; bareheaded women with brown babies in their
arms offered programmes of the week’s processions; tattered boys shrieked the daily papers,
and coloured post-cards; while from the balconies of private houses ladies in black mantillas,
children in white, and foreigners in gay colours looked down upon the scene.

So passed an hour, while the boxes and best seats began to fill. Spanish families of the middle
class, men and women in black, took front seats of the tribune, where the empty royal box made
a brave splash of gold and crimson; but more slowly came members of the aristocracy and officers
in blue and gold; and, jostled by the crowd, I waited in suspense.

Colonel O’Donnel had gone to his club for news of the box which, by strategic means, he had
been trying to get. Pilar and Dick had gone with him, to remain in the car chaperoned by Ropes,
until he should come out; so that I had no means of learning whether the Cherub had triumphed
or failed. All I knew was, that a club acquaintance whose wife was ill, might be induced to
offer his box, close to the royalties, to a second acquaintance in exchange for one directly
behind that which the Duke of Carmona had taken. If this could be arranged, the O’Donnels would
be given the latter, in exchange for—only the Cherub knew what. Borne back and forth with the
moving throng, like a leaf in an eddy, my eyes seldom strayed for long from the tribune. Would
the Carmona household come? Would the O’Donnels be their neighbours?

At last I saw Pilar and the two men entering the tribune. Yes, they had succeeded, I could
tell from the Cherub’s description of the Duke’s box. But Carmona’s was still empty.

The procession had not yet appeared, though the first cofradia had been due in the Plaza an
hour ago, and twilight was falling over the vast square, ethereally clear and pale. Only the
figure of Faith on the soaring Giralda, turned as if to watch the scene, still glittered in
the sun; and its dazzling brilliance had faded before a bugle note rang out, poignant as a
cry of bitter sorrow from a breaking heart.

This was the herald of a brotherhood with its sacred images; and the police began to sweep
the crowd before them out of the lane between the chairs and tribune. Slowly the flock was
forced along by the shepherd dogs; and as the way cleared, forth from the dim tunnel of Las
Sierpes marched, with arms reversed, a squad of civil guards; then a company of mounted soldiers,
their bugles still wailing that sad warning of some piteous spectacle to come.

The cavalry passed; it was but a modern preface to a mediæval poem which, following closely,
brought with it into the Plaza sad ghosts, grim ghosts, sainted ghosts of long past days.

Headed by one of their number bearing aloft an exquisite crucifix, walked a band of penitents
carrying great lighted candles. Their white robes of linen swept in long pointed trains over
the cobbles, the silver buckles on their black shoes glinting with each step; through the narrow
slits in the blue capuchas, whose conical peaks tapered far above the wearers’ heads, their
dark eyes burned with mysterious intensity. Two and two they moved, noiseless as bats save
for the tap of silver batons, making an avenue of gliding stars, like will-o’-the-wisps, from
the black mouth of Las Sierpes across the length of the Plaza.

Then suddenly, in that dark, distant tunnel flashed something luminous, something that moved,
swung in air higher than the heads of men, something that was like a great blazing casket of
jewels or a cloud of fireflies.

It came on, halting, starting again, reaching the open square, and revealing itself as an illuminated
platform supporting a crucified Christ, life size, with no detail spared of tragedy and torture.

One of those fine sculptures of painted wood, such as I had seen at Valladolid, the sixteenth
century artist had spent his soul in showing to believers what Christ had suffered that they
might be saved; and so startling was the appeal of this terrible figure to the sympathies,
that for an instant I found myself forgetting everything except a wild desire to rescue it.

As the paso, with its quivering silver lamps and strewn flowers, came near to where I stood,
I could see, beneath the long velvet curtains which draped the platform, twenty pairs or more
of slowly moving feet; and the frequent pauses were accounted for.

I watched the heart-rending figure pass round the corner of the Plaza, out of sight, swallows
wheeling overhead as if once more to pluck the thorns from that bleeding brow; and as it vanished,
far away in the dusk of Las Sierpes appeared another illumined mystery of clustering stars.
Out from darkness into hyacinth twilight it floated, a canopied platform of purple velvet,
crusted with silver and gold; under the glittering roof a virgin, who seemed to stand praying
in a garden of tall lilies, lit by a sacred silver flame.

The crowding lilies, as the paso came nearer, were only white, waxen candles after all, but
in their light the image of the Virgin gained a womanliness and beauty extraordinary. Her gorgeous
trailing robe of gold-embroidered velvet, her under gown of satin scintillating with diamonds,
her blazing crown of jewels, the sparkling rings on her delicate fingers, her necklaces, her
bracelets, were such as the Mother of Christ never dreamed of in her simple life; and half
the watchers knew grinding poverty, which a few of her gems might relieve.

That thought, I knew, would leap to many minds; but they would be the minds of foreigners;
and I, being Spanish, understood. I saw what this procession of emblems meant to these people,
rich and poor alike. They were being reminded, in the realistic and dramatic way which appealed
best to their imaginations, of all Christ had suffered for them, of all the mother-woman had
endured. The gems, which to alien minds were incongruous, crystallized their tears, their love,
their gratitude; and Our Lady’s jewels were the jewels of the poor—rich possessions which could
not be taken from them, joys for ever, objects of their highest pride.

Bending in gentle grief, the fair face bowed, the graceful figure passed in fragrance of lilies,
perfumed wax, and incense sending blue clouds from silver censors swung by white-robed boys.
With her, as she moved, went music—our Lady’s own music, sad and beautiful as moonlight on
a lonely grave, cool as peace after hot pain.

Now the box in the tribune I had watched so long was filled with strangers. Pilar had been
right. Carmona had given his place to friends. But with that soft, haunting music in my ears,
sweet as remembered days of joy, I could not fear anything. Somehow I was at peace, with good
thoughts in my mind and hope in my heart.

Brotherhoods in black, brotherhoods in purple, and paso after paso went by; Christus bending
under the weight of the cross, Christus praying among sleeping disciples in Gethsemane, Our
Lady of the Rosary, Our Lady of Tears, flaming rivers of light, suns rising out of purple clouds.

Night folded over the great square, with its crowd of people. No one had gone away. Electric
lights burst out and made the scene like the auditorium of some vast theatre; but the stage
and auditorium were one. Then the full moon, yellow as honey, looked over the thronged roof-gardens
of tall houses opposite the tribune, and sailed high in heaven.

It was past nine o’clock when Colonel O’Donnel touched me on the shoulder.

“We saw you long ago,” he said. “You are so tall. Shall we go home to dinner? But on Thursday
you will have another chance.”

Thursday! and there were three days in between. I wished that he could have left me in my dream
of peace as long as it might last.

                                   XXX

THE HAND UNDER THE CURTAINS

Like a dream the three days passed; but not a dream of peace, for that I lost with the last
echo of the Virgin music and the fragrance of her lilies.

Dick thought himself miserable, but I would gladly have changed my state of mind for his. Sometimes
he hoped, sometimes he despaired, but at all times he was really very happy, if only he had
known it. He enjoyed visiting the Murillos with Pilar and the Cherub when I had no heart to
go. He borrowed the motor to whisk them out to Italica. He went with the O’Donnels late every
afternoon for the drive in the fashionable paseo along the river side, as pleased with the
five handsome mules, in their smart Spanish harness of white and crimson rope and brown leather,
as if they had been his own.

As for me, I would not go, although Dick urged that, in the never-ending double line of fine
carriages, we might meet the Duchess of Carmona’s. But I did not dare to see Monica again after
what had happened unless there were some hope that Pilar could speak for me, or that I could
speak for myself. Still, I could not resist questioning the family in the evening. Had they
heard tidings of her? Had they seen her?

Presently there was news, but not good news. The engagement was known, and was being talked
of everywhere. The story was that the wedding would be soon, as the Duchess was not strong,
and professed herself anxious to see her son married. Gossip said also that the marriage would
be celebrated in Madrid directly after the festivities of the royal wedding were over, so that
the young duchess, as the wife of a grandee of Spain, could become lady-in-waiting to the bride-queen,
when los Reyes returned from their honeymoon at La Granja.

The Cherub told me these things only because I insisted on hearing all; and on Wednesday evening
I dragged further details from Pilar. They had passed the Duchess, Lady Vale-Avon, and Monica
in the Carmona carriage, the handsomest in Seville; and the Duke had been on horseback, looking
more attractive than Pilar had ever seen him in the chulo costume, worn at times as an amusing
affectation by some young aristocrats of Andalucía. I could picture him in the wide-brimmed
grey sombrero, the tight short jacket, and trousers fitting close as a glove until they widened
below the knee. Yes, the dress would suit him; and Pilar admitted reluctantly that he was a
perfect rider. I was horribly jealous, ready to fancy that, after all, Monica had actually
begun to care for him.

There had been a procession on Wednesday, but it was not an affair of importance; and with
Thursday, and the presence of the King, all the greatest events of this Semana Santa were to begin.

Early in the afternoon there was washing of poor men’s feet by the great ecclesiastics in the
cathedral, the King remaining at the Alcázar to bathe—as Dick put it—a few carefully selected
feet on his own account, as a sign of humility. Later, would come the most splendid procession
of the week, the King walking with his own cofradia; in the evening, the Miserere in the cathedral,
and processions all night, till mass on Good Friday morning. To myself I said, therefore, that
I was to have two more chances: the one for which I depended upon Pilar in the afternoon; the
one for which I depended on an inspiration of my own in the evening. For all the world was
going to hear the Miserere.

Though it was a week for penitence and fasting, Seville—honoured by the King—thrilled with
excitement. Thousands of strangers had poured into the town for this day, and the crowds were
three times as dense as on Sunday. Though there had been disquieting rumours, whispers of anarchist
plots and bombs, the police had been alert; the King had taken a swift gunboat up the Guadalquivir,
instead of arriving by special train from Cadiz, had reached Seville safely; and now anxiety
was forgotten. All the town poured into the Plaza de la Constitución more than an hour before
there was any hope that the procession might begin; and I was in the crowd.

The boxes filled earlier than before, many of the ladies no longer in black, but wearing Paris
hats and pale-tinted dresses, though to-morrow there would be black mantillas again, and red
carnations. Pilar, Dick, and Colonel O’Donnel were in their places, and though the Duke’s box
was still empty, I was sure I should not be disappointed to-day. “He’ll appear about the time
the King does,” I was saying to myself, when suddenly there came a stir in the royal box. The
mayor and town councillors walked in, looking important; four giant halberdiers of the royal
guard took position, each in a corner of the box. Then rose a shout, “Viva el Rey!” and against
the crimson velvet draperies the figure of the tall young King in white uniform stood out like
a slender statue of marble.

He was accompanied by his sister, the Infanta, and her husband, three or four ladies, and a
retinue of decorated officers; but for an instant I saw only the King, because—rebel as I was
supposed to be—my hat waved as high and my cheers rang as loudly as any in the crowd.

I had not seen his face—that day at Biarritz long ago—when his automobile stopped for want
of petrol. He had worn his motor-mask, and had not removed it, for he was incognito; but now,
as he bowed in answer to the people’s greeting, the young face was noble under the silver helmet.
His smile brought a deep dimple to either cheek, and a pleasant light to the brown eyes. I
was proud of my King, and found myself wishing that I could serve him, though it seemed that
that could never be; and with a sigh for the perversities of fate I looked away, only to receive
a shock of surprise.

Among the ladies with the Infanta were the Duchess of Carmona, Lady Vale-Avon, and Monica.
With the officers and friends of the King stood the Duke, his dark face radiating satisfaction,
as if this were the crowning moment of his life.

Not only was Monica with the man as his fiancée, but she was dressed, in compliment to him,
like a girl of Spain. She wore a mantilla such as the Infanta wore, and so bright was her hair,
so fair her skin framed in the black flounce of lace, that she was almost as much stared at
as the King. On her breast, pinning the folds of the mantilla, there was a glint of crimson;
and looking closely, I made it out to be a large brooch of rubies, forming the famous “No.
8 Do,” the motto of Seville. Only the Duke could have given her this, I thought; and she had
accepted it!

There was no more hope, then. It did not matter that her unexpected presence in the royal box
would prevent Pilar from speaking, or giving her my letter. Still, I clung desperately to the
one chance left; the cathedral and the Miserere.

Hardly were the royalties and their friends settled in the red-draped box when the next brotherhood
marched out from Las Sierpes, and halted their first paso before the King, that he might see
it well. He was on his feet, his head bared and bowed; and while he stood veiled in rising
incense, some emotional soul in the audience broke into a Moorish wail, the prayer song or
saeta of the people, improvising words which caught the popular fancy.

A murmur of approval ran through the crowd, which pressed close, in spite of the police; and
as all eyes for the moment turned upon the King, or upon the white-haired peasant singer, a
thing happened which caught my attention.

The velvet curtain which hid the bearers of the paso resting before the royal box, parted very
slightly at one side, as if someone were peering out; then a hand darted forth and received
from a man in a black coat, who stood with his back half-turned to me, a faded bouquet of flowers,
arranged Spanish fashion in a hard, stiff pyramid.

Quick as that darting hand a thought flashed through my brain. In a few seconds the paso would
be moving on; the bearers were bracing themselves for a new effort. That bouquet! if it should
hold the threatened bomb? This was the moment for such an attempt at wrecking the royal box,
for the King was a member of the next brotherhood that must pass; and soon he would be leaving
his sister and friends to walk with it, perhaps not returning to his box that day.

The passing of light is no more swift than was the flight of these thoughts; and without waiting
to calculate the cost to myself, thinking only of the King and of the girl I loved, I instantly
thrust both hands between the curtains, following the flowers as they were passed in. I grasped
the bouquet firmly round the stiff base of the pyramid, and pulled it out before the hidden
man who had received it knew that it had not been withdrawn by his confederate. It was all
over in a second, and I had the bouquet. Also I had identified the man who pushed it through
the curtains of the paso, though which among the twenty or twenty-five concealed bearers had
taken it from him I could not tell.

Whether my act had been wise or foolish, it was done, and the paso had moved on, carrying the
secret of one beating heart under the curtained platform.

Prying cautiously among the tightly banked flowers, my blood quickened as I touched something
round and hard, a thing about the size of a large orange, fastened into the centre of the pyramid
by a network of thin wire. Intuition had not played me a trick. There was death in this bunch
of roses, death for many, perhaps. Though it was of first importance to get the bomb as far
away as possible from the King and from Monica, and to render it harmless, I would not give
up my pursuit of the man in the black coat, who was fighting his way through the crowd, only
a few yards in front of me,—a square-set figure, in the holiday clothes of a respectable workman.
I saw only his back now, every muscle tense in his desire to escape the vengeance on his track;
but I had seen his face for an instant, and could identify it anywhere.

What if, in his desperation, he turned, and in the hope of saving himself accused me of the
crime he would have committed? It but needed that to ruin me—after Barcelona, and this long
journey to Seville, where the King was due. Would any explanation I might make be credited,
when the bomb was in my hand?

I pushed the crowding thoughts out of my mind. There were other things to think of—the bomb
itself, what to do with it; and the man to be followed.

Meanwhile I was moving on after that broad back of which I must not lose sight, and away from
the neighbourhood of the royal box. I was in the lane of the procession, close in front of
the long ranks of occupied chairs, and opposite the tribune. There were only two persons abreast
in the moving line which carried me along, driven on by the police, but we were tightly packed,
pressed against on one side by the knees of people in the chairs, on the other by the purple
brotherhood preceding another paso. The situation seemed desperate, since to give an alarm
would endanger the crowd as well as jeopardize my future; and a panic would be a calamity.

Suddenly the cry of a water-seller struck my ear sharply. “Agua!—clear as crystal and cold
as mountain snow. Agua!”

He was just before me with his earthen vessel. “Sell me your jar,” I said. “No, I don’t want
a glass of water. I want the jar—for a curiosity. Twenty pesetas for it.”

This offer saved questionings. The vessel with its contents was worth two pesetas to the vendor,
perhaps, and, lest I should change my mind, its owner hastily handed over his jar and pocketed
my silver. Even now I had to wait for an opening in the throng, till I had been pushed on as
far as the lane leading from the square to the Plaza de San Fernando; and there, to my joy,
I jostled against Ropes. Without a word of explanation, I said, “Follow that man in the cloth
cap with the black coat and red tie. Get hold of him; take care he doesn’t knife or shoot you.
Don’t let him go—and wait for me.”

This was all Ropes needed. “Right, sir,” said he, and forged after the black back, which in
this freer space was gaining distance.

Unexpectedly relieved of my second task, carefully shielding the bouquet with the water-jar
I worked my way into the lane, and struck the head of the earthen vessel against a stone coping.

The porous clay cracked like an egg-shell, the top coming off in one piece, with a few flying
splinters; and I pressed the bouquet deep into the water.

This was the best I could do at the moment, though, if the bomb was made with picric acid,
I had accomplished nothing. I could only hope; and pressing on I came up with Ropes, who had
collared his man and jammed him against a wall.

Not a sound had the wretch uttered. He knew that, if he resisted, he would be instantly denounced
and torn to pieces by a crowd not likely to wait for clear proof of such an accusation. Since
he had failed, it was better to trust to the mercy of his captor and of the police than to
the thousands wild with enthusiasm for the King. Fortunately for him, as for us, the crowd
had something better to do than stop to watch what they took for some trifling private quarrel.

“He tried to knife me,” said Ropes; “but I stopped that. Knife’s in my pocket. What next, sir?”

It was characteristic that he did not ask what the man had done.

“Give the brute up to the police,” I answered in English. “He was with another chap whom I’ve
lost, in a plot to throw a bomb at the royal box; and the bomb’s in this water-jar.”

For the first time Ropes’ face lost its imperturbable expression. “What, sir!” he exclaimed,
“after your troubles—excuse my mentioning them—you concern yourself in an affair like this!”

“I’ve no choice. We can’t let this beast escape. If they have him, the police may get his mate.
He looks a coward and sneak.”

“Beg pardon, sir, you have a choice. I’ve got the man. Give me the jar with the bomb, and I’ll
take the whole thing on my shoulders with the police, though it’s a shame you should lose the
credit. I’ve a clean bill; chauffeur to Mr. R. Waring, American newspaper correspondent. No
need to bring you into it.”

“If you’re blown up by the bomb—”

“Would get blown up just the same sticking to you, for I would stick like a burr, sir. (Now,
no good wriggling, you beast, or gabbling about a mistake. There’s no mistake, and you won’t
get away!) Better tell him what’s in that jar, sir—my Spanish doesn’t run as far—and that’ll
quiet him.”

“You can’t manage the man and the jar.”

“Could manage two of each. There’s a couple of civil guards. Now, if you’ve any kindness for
me, sir, let go that jar; and don’t be seen with me.”

I gave Ropes his way. But I lingered near enough to watch the scene which followed; and had
that innocent-looking jar been broken, or had the contents of the soaked bouquet exploded of
its own accord, I should have been near enough to share my chauffeur’s fate.

He explained in broken Spanish, eked out with gesture; and the fact that he was English, with
the most honest of English faces to vouch for his sincerity, helped him. The man in his grasp
was Catalán, which was not in his favour at Seville. The civil guards looked at the jar with
respectful interest, but did not offer to take it; and, after a moment of lively conversation,
Ropes and his captive marched rapidly away with the men in red, black, and white.

At least, whatever happened now, the King was safe; and Monica was safe.

It was not until eight o’clock, when I went to the quiet hotel where we had appointed to meet
and dine, that I found out anything more. Then they told me that the King returned to his box
after walking in the procession, and that, soon after, Dick had been surprised by a visit from
a member of the police in plain clothes. The man had come to the O’Donnels’ box, inquired if
the American gentleman were Mr. Waring, asked if he had a chauffeur named Peter Ropes, and
being answered in the affirmative had told the story of the bomb. Dick had then gone with the
policeman to see Ropes, had made a statement concerning himself, his business, his car, his
chauffeur, his occupation in life, and the friends with whom he was staying. All had proved
satisfactory. Ropes had been thanked by the police for his promptness and presence of mind,
and threatened with active gratitude from higher quarters. Both had been asked to remain within
reach for a few days; and the episode was over.

But it was not until they heard my part of the story that Dick or the O’Donnels knew precisely
where and how Ropes had come into the drama.

                                   XXXI

BEHIND AN IRON GRATING

“Say,” remarked Dick in a stage whisper, “there’d be a big drop in the bee industry if all
the world turned Protestant and bought no more great wax candles.”

We were standing inside the Moorish arch of the Puerta del Perdon, in the Court of Oranges.
Beyond, where the stuffed crocodile swung in a light breeze, was the entrance to the cathedral,
black as the mouth of a cave. The wind which rocked that huge reptile—the gift of a disappointed
Sultan—sent the petals of ten thousand orange blossoms drifting over our heads in a perfumed
snow-storm. Past us trooped a dark-robed brotherhood, each man with his tall candle raining
wax on the grass-grown stones of the old court.

This it was which had drawn forth Dick’s reflection; but I scarcely heard his words. I was
watching for Monica; and my last chance must come soon if it were to come at all.

Pilar and her father were not with us. They had gone into the cathedral, where they had secured
seats not far from the royal chapel, and in the best position to hear the Miserere. Though
it was early still, not quite nine o’clock, vast crowds were gathering and it was possible,
they thought, that Carmona and his guests were already in their places. If they were seen there,
Colonel O’Donnel would send out a messenger (a man employed in the cathedral) with a word for me.

Earlier, this person had come to the hotel, where he had been told to look well at me that
he might not fail to recognize me again. And Dick and I had not stood on sentinel duty for
fifteen minutes when he appeared, beating through the opposing tide of the multitude as it
swept towards the cathedral.

“His worship the Colonel O’Donnel, wished their worships the two señoritos, to know that those
they wished to find were not visible in the cathedral.”

“Could they be there, and invisible?” I asked.

“The cathedral is very dimly lighted; and they might not be seen if they were in some chapel.
There are several with many people in them, and the doors are locked.”

“Is that allowed?”

“The people have given something to a verger not to let others in. I have power of the same
kind, if any señor wished me to use it.”

“Here they come!” whispered Dick. “Carmona, Lady Vale-Avon, and Lady Monica.”

We stepped farther back into shadow, though such precaution was hardly needed. It was so dim
in the Court of Oranges that the crowd groped its way over the cracked, uneven pavement. Only
because they were close upon us, and he was watching, had Dick been able to make out the faces
we knew.

“Stop with us,” I said to Colonel O’Donnel’s messenger. “You shall have a hundred pesetas if
you will open the door of an empty chapel for me, and lock it again when I give the word.”

“But I fear there are no empty ones—” he began.

“Then make one empty. Can you do that—for a hundred pesetas?”

“Yes, señor, I think I can.”

By this time Monica, still in her black mantilla, had flitted past us between her mother and
the Duke, but we were following. Dim as it was in the court, the moon looked out from behind
the Giralda tower, and it was not dark enough for my project. Inside the cathedral, however
(save where blazed the Holy Week monument, an illuminated temple of white and gold), was a
mysterious darkness. Not the hundreds of great wax candles sufficed to light the aisles in
that vast forest of stone. Stumbling, groping to pass through a hanging veil of shadow, thousands
of men and women drifted aimlessly to and fro, themselves black as the shadows they fought,
save here and there some soldier whose uniform waked a brief flame of red and gold, or a hooded
brother who glowed purple under a lighted pillar.

Purposely we pushed against the people before us, so that in a space black as a lake of ink
the trio we followed was separated. The rush of people from behind was so sudden—so well managed
by us,—that it took the Duke unawares. The three were caught in the eddy, divided, and before
they could come together again I had my arm through Monica’s, and was dragging her away, the
messenger clinging to me closely.

“Don’t be frightened,” I said. “It’s I—Ramón. I have to speak with you.”

She looked up at me, her pale face dim as a spirit’s in the dark.

“Shame!” she stammered brokenly. “To force me like this—you, who have—”

“Done nothing except love you too well; and you must give me the chance to win you back. You
owe it to me,” I said almost fiercely; and she was silenced.

“Monica! where are you?” I heard Lady Vale-Avon’s voice call, and could have thanked her for
giving me the direction to avoid.

“Take us to that empty chapel quickly,” I said to the man. Then he, who would have known how
to find his way in that stone forest blindfold, steered us through the sea of people, and into
a haven beyond the waves. Not a chapel was lighted; but as my eyes grew used to the gloom I
could see faces on the other side of the tall, shut gates of openwork iron which we passed.

“I have the key of this one. I will promise the people a better place if they’ll come out,”
whispered the messenger, stopping before a pair of these closed doors, and unlocking it with
a great key.

I heard him speciously informing a group of shadows that they would be too far from the music
to hear it well. He had a friend who would open another chapel nearer. Eagerly ten or twenty
persons snapped at the bait, flocked out, and the instant their backs were turned, I half dragged,
half carried Monica in. Then before she could escape, if she had wished to try, the great iron
gates were shut and locked upon us.

“They will be looking everywhere for you,” I said. “Come with me to the back where it is so
dark that no one can see us. This chapel must seem to be empty.”

“I want to be found,” the girl answered cruelly. “I’m going to marry the Duke.”

“If you love him and not me, I shan’t lift my hand to keep you,” I said. “The other night I
believed it was so, and made up my mind to trouble you no more. But Miss O’Donnel said—”

“Miss O’Donnel!” exclaimed Monica. “I wonder you can speak of her to me.”

Her voice quivered with angry scorn, yet my heart leaped with joy at the words which confirmed
Pilar’s suspicions and my hopes.

“She’s as loyally your friend as I am loyally your lover,” I assured her. “Now listen. There
are things which you must hear; and if when you’ve heard them you ask me to take you to your
mother and Carmona, I’ll obey instantly.” Then, without giving her time to cut me short, I
began to talk of the letter I had written at Manzanares, and how I sent it, and what it had
said. “Did you get it?” I asked.

“No such letter as that. It was a very different one—a horrible letter. Oh, Ramón! if it were
true; if you had been true! If you could have gone on loving me!” She broke into sobbing, and
hid her face between her hands.

“Don’t dare to doubt that I did, and always will. Tell me what the letter said?” I pulled her
hands down, too roughly perhaps, and held them fast in mine.

She tried to check her sobs. “I could show you the letter if there were a light. Since that
day I’ve carried it with me, so that I could look at it sometimes, and have strength to hate
you if my heart failed.”

“My own darling—mine again,” I soothed her. “It’s been a horrible plot. If that letter was
not full of love and longing for you, it was forged; no doubt after the handwriting of the
one I really sent.”

“You mean my mother—would do a thing like that?”

“She might have justified it by telling herself that the end sanctified the means.”

“I know—she was ready to do almost anything to turn me from you,” Monica admitted, leaning
against me so confidingly that all I had suffered was forgotten. “I couldn’t have believed
this of her; but—she did tell me the night before Manzanares that at Toledo she heard you calling
Pilar O’Donnel, ‘darling.’ ‘Young Mr. O’Donnel seems very fond of his sister,’ mother said,
looking straight at me, though she seemed to speak innocently. ‘I heard him call her “darling
girl.” ’ You can imagine how I felt! But I hoped she was mistaken, or that she’d invented it
to make me unhappy; so I wouldn’t let myself be very unhappy, only a little distressed. Because,
you know, Miss O’Donnel is awfully pretty and perfectly fascinating. Mother said, the night
we were at Manzanares, that she was one of those girls whom most men fall irresistibly in love
with; and—and I loved you so much, I couldn’t help being jealous.”

“As if any man could even see poor little Pilar, when you were near!” I exclaimed, forgetting
Dick’s difference of opinion.

“Oh, I had faith in you, then. But next morning that pretty Mariquita handed me a letter, which
I was sure was from you, as she hid it behind a tin of hot water. I was taking it, when mother
saw, and snatched it away. You can’t imagine the things I said to her, to make her give it
back. I was so furious, that for once in my life I wasn’t in the least afraid, and I would
have tried to rush past her and run out to you, when she’d refused to give the letter up, but
I wasn’t dressed. My room had no door of its own. I had to go through mother’s room to get
out; and before I knew what she was doing, she’d slammed the door between us, locking it on
her side. I hadn’t even a proper window, only a little barred, square thing, high up in the
wall. I couldn’t scream for help, even if I hadn’t been ashamed to make a scene in a strange
hotel; so what was I to do.

“She kept me there, wild with rage against her, for quite an hour after I was dressed and ready
to dart out when I had the chance; but at last she unlocked the door, looking very grave. ‘I’ve
opened your letter,’ she said, ‘and read it, as it was my duty and my right to do. It is different
from what I expected, and I’ve decided after all that it’s as well you should have it.’

“Then she handed me a torn envelope, and I recognized it as the one we had crumpled up between
us when she snatched it away. Your handwriting was on it, and I never doubted it was yours
inside, though it looked as if you’d written in a hurry, with a bad pen. No name was signed;
but the letter said you thought it best to tell me, without waiting longer, that you feared
we’d both been hasty and made a mistake in our feelings. Our meeting was romantic, and we’d
been carried away by our youth and hot blood. Now you’d had time to see that it would be unwise
of me to give up a man like the Duke of Carmona for one unworthy enough to have fallen in love
with another girl. Accordingly, you released me from all obligations, and took it for granted
that you were also free. Then you bade me good-bye, wishing me a happy future in case your
car and the Duke’s happened to go on by different ways. Do you wonder I tried to hate you,
and that I said ‘yes’ the very next night, when the Duke asked me again if I wouldn’t change
my mind and marry him?”

For answer, I caught her against my breast, and we clung to each other as if we could never part.

“Such a promise is no promise,” I said at last. “I have you, and I don’t mean to let you go,
lest I lose you for ever. Monica, will you trust yourself to me, and run away with me to-night?”

“Yes,” she whispered. “I daren’t go back to them. But what shall we do?”

“I’ll tell you what I’ve been thinking,” I said. “My car isn’t far off. Colonel O’Donnel and
Pilar, who’d do anything for you and me, are in the cathedral. Just outside this chapel the
man who locked us in is waiting for my signal to open the door. With the O’Donnels and Dick
Waring to see you through, will you motor with me to Cadiz, take ship for Gibraltar, and marry
me on English soil?”

“Suppose there should be no ship for days?” she hesitated.

“There is one nearly every day; but at worst I can hire a boat of some sort.”

“Once we were in Gibraltar, you’d be out of reach if the Duke tried to take revenge,” she said.
“Yes, I will go! I love you and I can’t give you up again. Oh, Ramón, I never would have promised
to marry him, if I hadn’t longed to show you that—that I didn’t care, and that there was someone
who wanted me very much, if you didn’t.”

“How like a woman!” I exclaimed, laughing—for I could laugh now.

“He has only kissed my hand,” she went on, “and I hated even that.”

“Yet you’re wearing his brooch,” a returning flash of jealousy made me say; “and a mantilla,
to please him.”

“The brooch is his mother’s. So is the mantilla. She at least has been kind; so I let her put
them both on for me to-day, when she asked.”

“Kind? When there’s time I’ll tell you one or two things. But now there’s no time for anything
except to take you away.”

“Listen! The Miserere has begun,” she said. “Has it been long? I heard it only now. Can we
get out before it’s over?”

“Of course we can—though not quite as easily, perhaps, as if the crowd were moving with us.
However, we can’t afford to wait.”

“What wonderful music!” Monica whispered. “I wish I dared to feel it were blessing us.”

“Yes, feel it so,” I said, and involuntarily was silent to listen for an instant to the melodious
flood which swept from aisle to aisle in golden billows. Out from the wave of organ music and
men’s voices, boyish soprano notes sprayed high, flinging their bright crystals up, up, until
they fell, shattered, from the vaulted ceiling of stone.

From each dimly seen column shot forth one of those slender-stemmed, flaming white lilies of
light, such as had bloomed in Our Lady’s garden, as the pasos moved blossoming through the
streets. It seemed as if they might have been gathered and replanted here, to lighten the darkness;
and as the music soared and sank, its waves set the lily-flames flickering.

I peered out, and saw my man hovering near. In the gloom he did not catch the signal I gave
him with my hand, but when I shook a handkerchief between the gratings he came quickly. As
he unlocked the doors I slid the promised bribe into his palm; and having glanced about to
make sure as far as possible that we were not watched, I called Monica.

“Take us out by the nearest way,” I said; and the man began to hurry us officiously through
the crowd.

Monica clung to me tightly, and I could feel the tremblings that ran through her body. My heart
was pounding too; for it is when the ship is nearest home, after a stormy voyage, that the
captain remembers he has nerves. It seemed too marvellous to be true, that the girl was mine
at last, and yet—what could separate us, now that I held her close against my side, and she
was ready to go with me, out of her world into mine?

“This way, this way, señorito,” our guide warned me, plucking at my arm as I steered ahead,
confused by a thousand moving shadows. I followed, brushing sharply against a tall man in conical
capucha and trailing robe of blue. He turned, his masked face close to mine, so close that
even in the dusk I caught a flash of glittering eyes. Then, giving me a sudden push, he cried
out, “Help—murder! An anarchist—a free-thinker! To the rescue!”

It was Carmona’s voice, and I knew instantly that he must have borrowed this dress from some
friend in the cathedral—perhaps a member of the cofradìa to which he himself belonged—so that
he could search for me and Monica, without being seen by us.

Thrusting the girl behind me, yet keeping her close, I hurled him away, but he sprang at me
again, and this time something glittered in his right hand. I fought with him for it, and pulled
a slim length of steel up through his closed fingers, so that the sharp dagger-blade must have
cut him to the bone. He gave a cry, and relaxed his grasp; but though he was disabled for the
instant a dozen men in the crowd, which swirled round us now, caught and held me fast. Monica
was wrenched from me; the dagger had fallen to the ground (but not before I had seen it was
of Toledo make); the figure in the blue capucha was swept out of my sight, and I was fighting
like a madman in a strait-jacket for freedom.

                                  XXXII

ON THE ROAD TO CADIZ

It was a mouse who gnawed a hole in the net that entangled the lion.

Now, I am no lion in importance, nor was Colonel O’Donnel’s messenger of as little significance
as a mouse; yet he was the last creature to whom I would have looked for succour in a moment
of stress. Nevertheless to him I owed my rescue.

“A mistake, a mistake,” he chirped, jumping about, bird-like, just outside the circle of struggling
men. “I am a verger here; this gentleman was with me. He did nothing. He is a most respectable
and twice wealthy person, a tourist whom I guide. He is innocent—no anarchist, no free-thinker.
That other—that pretended brother—has made a practical joke. See, he has run away to escape
consequences. There is nothing against this noble señor; you have it on the word of a verger.”

Because it was bewilderingly dark, and they might have got the wrong man; because, too, the
verger was probably right, and it had been a joke played upon them by a person who had now
disappeared, the twelve or fifteen men who surrounded me fell back shamefacedly, glad on second
thoughts to melt away before they could be identified and reproached for disturbing the public
peace, and spoiling the music to which their King listened.

I was free, but I would not leave the cathedral yet, for my hope was to find Monica again.
I wandered in every direction, while the verger went off to bring Dick and the O’Donnels to
meet me in the Orange Court.

Pilar’s delight in the first part of my story was dashed by the sequel. Of course, she said,
it must come right in the end, since Monica and I understood each other at last. But just for
the moment everything seemed difficult. The Duke was sure now that I was Casa Triana, and not
Cristóbal O’Donnel. He would almost certainly make all the trouble he could, and a man of his
influence could make a good deal. As his attempt to stick a dagger into me—by way of a quick
solution—had been covered by the capucha of a cofradìa, I could not take revenge by laying
a counter accusation. I might say I had recognized his voice, and that I thought I had recognized
the dagger bought in Toledo; but I could prove nothing, and the Duke would score.

Still, as the Cherub remarked consolingly, he could not do much worse than force me out of
Spain. Neither I, nor anyone else, had ever said in so many words that I was Cristóbal O’Donnel.
If people had taken my identity for granted because of a few round-about hints, and because
for a joke I had borrowed a friend’s uniform for a day or two, nothing very serious could be
made out of that after all; and as Cristóbal really was on leave, he need not be involved.
He was a good officer, whose services were valued, and I was not to worry lest harm should
come upon him. I need think only of Monica and of myself. Had I formed any idea of what to do next?

“I must get Monica out of Carmona’s house,” I said.

“You’ll have to lie in wait and snatch her from under their noses next time they show them,”
suggested Dick; “unless—”

“Unless?”

“Carmona keeps his indoors until he’s arranged to have yours politely deported.”

“I can’t be got rid of in an hour.”

“You could to-morrow.”

“I’m afraid you can,” sighed the Cherub, “and that, though I shall do my best, I may be powerless
to help you.”

“What if it were known that he saved the King yesterday?” Pilar asked her father.

“The King is going away to-morrow. You know, he’s off to England in a few days. Besides, the
incident to-day will be hushed up. The King will know, of course, and a few others; but it
will be kept out of the papers,—anyhow, until they’ve got their hands on both the men concerned.”

“I’ve still got to-night,” I said, “and it’s not eleven yet. I hoped that in the confusion
Monica had given her mother and Carmona the slip, and that if I waited here I might find her
again. I thought she might try to get back to the chapel where we had our talk, trusting that
I’d look for her there. But she didn’t come, and I searched everywhere in vain before I tried
watching the crowd pass through the Court of Oranges. Now, I’m certain that Carmona or Lady
Vale-Avon must have pounced upon her while I was surrounded, and forced her away. No doubt
they’re at home long ago. Why shouldn’t I appeal to the English consul, and say that the Duke
of Carmona’s detaining an English girl in his house against her will?”

“No use,” said the Cherub. “She’s under age, and she’s with her mother, who’s visiting the
Duchess.”

“Then I’ll go to Carmona’s door and make such a row that they’ll be obliged to let me in.”

“You’d get into a police cell instead. A man’s house is his castle, especially when it’s a
palace and he’s a Duke.”

I was silenced. I knew the Cherub was right; but it seemed monstrous that in this twentieth
century such tyranny should divide a girl from her lover.

When I had thought for a moment I said, “Anyhow, I shall go to the house and try to bribe a
servant. Once in, I’d not come out without Monica. I’ve done two satisfactory things to-day
by bribery and corruption, and I don’t see why I shouldn’t bring it off the third time.”

“The Duke’s servants have been in the employ of the family for years, and their fathers and
grandfathers before them. No money would bribe them to deceive their master and mistress,”
said the Cherub.

“I shouldn’t have thought either the Duke or his mother capable of inspiring such devotion.”

“It isn’t devotion—it’s fear. To an unfaithful servant in that house—well, almost anything
might happen.”

“Have you any advice to give me, then?” I asked, in despair.

The Cherub shook his head. “The prudent thing would be to go away to-night, and trust Lady
Monica’s loyalty. She can’t be forced into marrying the Duke, you know; and if she breaks the
engagement he’ll have to let her alone, for dignity’s sake.”

“That might be prudent; but of course I won’t do it.”

“Of course you won’t,” returned the Cherub, as if it went without saying.

“Very well, then; matters are desperate, and desperate remedies must be tried; things can’t
be worse than they are. I shall hang about Carmona’s house early in the morning, and when the
first person comes out I’ll go in. If I don’t come out, you will know what’s become of me;
and I don’t suppose in these days even a Duke can kill a man without getting into trouble?”

“He would merely have you arrested as a housebreaker,” said the Cherub.

“Well, I should have seen Monica first, and perhaps have got her on the right side of the door.”

“We’ll have a go at the business together,” said Dick. “It would be more sociable.”

“All right, thank you,” said I. “Then something’s settled; and these best of friends can go
home and sleep.”

“Sleep!” echoed Pilar scornfully. “Oh, if I were a man, and could do something to punish the Duke!”

“I wish you could set your bull at him,” said Dick. “Only, now I think of it, it’s his bull still.”

Try as we might, it was impossible to persuade either Colonel O’Donnel or Pilar that they ought
to return quietly to bed, if not to sleep. No, they would do nothing of the kind. Besides,
no properly disposed person within ten miles of Seville would lie in bed that night. Processions
would go on till early morning. Many people would watch them, or spend the hours till early
mass in prayer in the cathedral, which would be open all night. Why should not the O’Donnel
family do as others did?

There was no answer to this; and it was finally arranged that, if they wished to rest at all,
it should be at the hotel in the Plaza de San Fernando, where we had dined. That was to be
the rendezvous; and the Cherub would engage the verger we knew to watch the Duke’s house in
the morning, bringing news of our fate to the hotel—if we did not bring it ourselves.

Never—if I live beyond the allotted threescore years and ten—shall I forget that strange night
of Holy Thursday in Seville.

Dick and I wandered through the streets, and in the Plaza de la Constitución, where electric
lamps and moonlight mingled bleakly, while never-ending cofradìas passed.

A sky of violet was like a veil of silky gauze, and as the moon slid down the steeps of heaven
the vast dome paled. One by one the stars went out like spent matches; dawn was on its way.
Electric lights flared and died, leaving a pearly dusk more mysterious than any twilight which
falls with night.

The crowds had thinned; but silent brotherhoods moved through streets where there was no other
sound than the rustling of their feet, the tap of their leaders’ silver batons. So faint was
the dawn-dusk, that they were droves of shadows on their way back into night, their candle-lights
lost stars. Now and then the clink of a baton brought to some half-shuttered window a face,
to be presently joined by other faces, peering down at the dark processions of men and black-robed,
penitent women.

Outside the great east door of the cathedral halted a paso, like a huge golden car. Christ
was nailed to a cross not yet lifted into place. A Roman soldier, of exaggerated height and
sardonic features, stood reading the parchment with the mocking inscription about to be nailed
above the thorn-crowned head. His evil mouth was curled in a satirical smile. Two centurions
in armour sat their impatient horses, and gave directions for raising the cross. The effect
was startling; for in this pale beginning of light, and the atmosphere of tingling exaltation
which steeped the town, it was difficult not to believe that the terrible carved figures of
wood had life, and that with the eyes of one’s flesh one beheld the world’s great tragedy.

Somehow the impression of horror was but deepened by the fact that the bearers had come out
from under the curtains of the paso, to take off the large pads they wore on their heads, to
drink water, and smoke cigarettes with the penitents who had rolled up the masks from their
pale, damp faces. They might have been comrades of the Roman soldiers, in their obliviousness
of that tortured form on the cross.

It was not yet five o’clock when Dick and I plunged into the cool gloom of the cathedral, passing
the spot where Carmona had struck at me, and the chapel where I had taken Monica. The stones
were slippery as the floor of a ballroom, with wax dropped from innumerable candles, and the
air was heavy with the smoke of stale incense.

The searchlight of dawn could scarcely penetrate the black curtains which throughout Holy Week
had draped the cathedral; therefore a solitary beam, like a bar of gold, slanted in through
one superb window.

The amethysts, emeralds, and rubies of incomparable painted glass transformed the yellow bar
into a rainbow which streamed down the length of the majestic aisle and struck full upon a
golden altar. Then slowly the jewelled band moved from the gold carvings, the flames dying
as it passed. Travelling, still like a searchlight, it found the prostrate forms of sleeping
men exhausted by their vigils, snatched out of veiling darkness kneeling women clad in black,
and at last rested on the Holy Week monument itself, paled its myriad candles, and made pools
of liquid gold on the vestments of priests who had knelt all night in adoration of the Host.

“Say,” said Dick, half whispering, “I don’t gush as a rule; but doesn’t it look like the light
of salvation coming to save lost souls?”

Not a hotel in Seville had shut its doors that night of Holy Thursday; not a concièrge had
done more than nod and wake out of a broken dream, for there had been an excited coming and
going through all the dark hours.

At six o’clock Dick and I were at the fonda, inquiring for Colonel O’Donnel and his daughter.
They had come in at two, and were now asleep, it seemed; but had left a note for the señores.
In this note we were assured that the friendly verger of last night’s adventure would be lurking
in the neighbourhood of Carmona’s house as early as six o’clock, and should we want him we
would know where he was to be found.

We took bedrooms, bathed, dressed again, and after hot coffee and rolls decided that is was
time to go on guard. To be sure, it was absurdly early; but by this time the Duke’s household
might be astir, and we must not risk letting Monica be carried away before we had had a chance
to practise the gentle art of housebreaking.

The clocks of Seville were spasmodically telling the hour of seven when we entered the narrow
and dusky lane of the Calle de las Dueñas. So fast asleep were the shuttered windows that our
mission seemed a fool’s errand; but as we came in sight of the Duke’s closed door the Cherub’s
messenger loomed out of the shadows.

Unshaven and haggard, his eyes glittered like black beads in the daylight; and he greeted us
excitedly. “Señores,” he began, “I was going to look for you at the hotel. A thing has happened.
The Señor Colonel told me I must watch the house of His Grace the Duke, and let you know when
you came if anyone had been out or in. Who would think of people starting upon a journey before
the day is awake? But so it is. The Duke, whom I have seen in other years, has gone away in
an automobile with his honourable mother and two other ladies.”

“You are sure it was he?” I asked, completely taken aback.

“Sure, my señorito. The car was a large grey car. And”—his face grew sly as a squirrel’s—“I
can tell you where it is going, if you would like to know.”

“I want to know all you can tell,” I said.

“Well, the grey car arrived a little before half-past six, I should think. In it there was
only the young man who drives, dressed in leather. ‘What is going to happen?’ I asked myself.
It seemed better to wait and see than run to the hotel to say, ‘there’s an automobile at the
door for the Duke,’ and perhaps find it gone, no one could tell where, when I got back. But
I do not sleep on my feet. There are always ideas running in my head. I pretended to be strolling
past, and stopping for a look at such a fine machine. Perhaps I had matches in my pocket, perhaps
not; in any case I asked the young man in leather to give me a light for my cigarette. He did,
and it was a natural thing to fall into talk. ‘You make an early start,’ I said. He nodded.
‘Going far?’ ‘To Cadiz to-day, by Jerez.’ That is all, honoured señores; but I tell it for
what it is worth. A few minutes later the grand people came out, and the automobile shot away.”

“Did they put on luggage?” I asked.

“All the automobile would hold.”

“By Jove!” exclaimed Dick. “Carmona’s thrown sand in our eyes this time. Who’d have supposed
he’d turn tail and run away like a coward in the midst of the Holy Week show, with the King
still in town?”

“I was a fool not to expect the unexpected,” I said. “If anyone except Colonel O’Donnel’s man
had told me I should have been between two minds whether to accept the story or not. But O’Donnel
called him a trusty fellow; and he served me well last night. If we wait to verify his story,
by the time we find out it’s true the grey car will have got too long a start. I don’t like
Carmona’s stealing off. It looks as if there were something up.”

“He showed last night that he was desperate,” said Dick. “I guess we’d better get on the road
before much grass grows.”

“You’re the best of friends,” said I. And paying the verger well for his services, we hurried
back to the hotel to find Ropes and have the car got ready.

It was still very early, and the Cherub and Pilar had not had many hours beauty sleep; but
we could not leave for an indefinite absence without bidding them good-bye; and we were on
our way to knock at Colonel O’Donnel’s door when Pilar appeared from the room adjoining.

A moment, and she understood everything. “You’ll follow!” she exclaimed, without waiting to
hear my plans.

“And I’ll go with him,” said Dick, looking wistfully at her; for he had not had his answer
yet, and who could tell when he would have it now, or what it would be when it came?

“Of course. I knew you would,” Pilar replied. And a light leaped up in her dark eyes. If it
meant nothing warmer, it meant approval. “You’ll want to go at once. Oh, I am sorry you’ll
miss the fair. You don’t know what a fairyland Seville is, with miles of streets and park roofed
in with arches of coloured lights, like jewels; and papa has a tent in the gayest place, where
we stay all day, and see our friends, and it’s such fun visiting the booths and side-shows!
But maybe next spring you’ll come back for the feria with your bride, Don Ramón; and as for
you, Señor Waring—”

“As for me?” repeated Dick, anxiously. “Am I not to come back before that?”

“You’re to come back when you like, and—papa will be glad to see you,” she answered, just as
any conventional little señorita might have answered. But at least she had the kindness to
blush; and I would have moved away to give Dick a last chance if at that moment the Cherub
had not come out of his room.

Instantly Pilar dashed into explanations, and between the three of us he soon had the history
of events.

No one on earth looks less practical than the dreamy-eyed, soft-voiced Cherub; yet it was he
who thought of practical details which we had forgotten. He it was who reminded us that it
would not be prudent to take Ropes away from Seville. As the man who said he had discovered
the bomb, his evidence would be wanted, and if he disappeared it would look mysterious. His
real connection with the Marqués of Casa Triana might be unearthed by the police; and because
of that miserable affair at Barcelona, whose consequences were continually cropping up, some
hideous story might be concocted and believed.

Dick and I unhesitatingly decided to take the Cherub’s advice, and leave Ropes behind. He was
engaged in getting the car ready, and would no doubt be disappointed to hear that he was to
be temporarily abandoned; but he would see the wisdom of such a course, and might be trusted
to guard my interests. As for Dick, he might turn his back on the proceedings in Seville without
danger, for he posed only as the employer of a man who had found the bomb; besides, as I suggested
without glancing at Pilar, he could come back in a few days in case he were wanted to give
evidence.

Thus it was settled; at eight o’clock we had said good-bye to Pilarcita and the Cherub, softening
the farewell with a hopeful “au revoir”; and with Ropes staring disconsolately after us, we
flashed out of the Plaza de San Fernando.

I drove, with Dick beside me, for there was no longer need for subterfuge. Carmona knew me
for what I was, and I could help Monica more by defying him than by playing the old waiting
game, of which I was tired.

It seemed strange to be racing across country again in the car, after those fevered days in
Seville. With the steering-wheel in my hand, the steady thrum of the motor seemed to say, “You’ll
do it; you’ll do it;—I’ll help you to do it.”

The air was made of perfume—orange blossoms and acacias; and the vast flowery plain where Seville
is queen gave us a tolerable road, on which the car ran lightly. Soaring snow peaks of fantastic
shapes walled the green arena of rolling meadows, and the day was like a day of June.

Save for the grey Lecomte, scarcely a motor had we seen since leaving Biarritz, except in Madrid;
but now, when I tried to decipher the road hieroglyphics, the dust showed more than one track
of pneus. Cars had come to Seville from Madrid for Semana Santa, and had evidently run out
this way for a spin more than once. As I had not Ropes’ detective talent I was unable to distinguish
the Lecomte’s tyre-marks from others.

In sight of the conspicuous church tower at Utrera—ancient home of outlaws—we came upon a dusty
white line diverging to Ecija. Pausing to question a road-mender, I remembered Colonel O’Donnel’s
story of the Seven Men of Ecija, and the curious bond between them and the Dukes of Carmona.
But what brought the tale to my mind—unless it was the name of Ecija on the road-map and signpost,
or the fact that we were now in the real heart of brigand-land—I could not have told.

Yes, said the road-mender, he had seen an automobile go by—a big one, not long ago, steering
as if for Jerez. Was it grey? He would not be sure, but at all events the thing was so grey
with dust that had there been another colour underneath, no one could have seen it. Ladies
in the car? Well, he was not positive, for it had gone by like a cannon-ball in a cloud of
smoke; but there were several persons inside, and it was the only motor which had passed him
to-day. Several cars had appeared in the distance yesterday, but they had turned back on the
Seville side of Utrera.

One automobile, a big one, apparently grey, and with several persons inside, had gone by at
a tremendous pace not long before. That sounded as if the car we chased could not be far away.
Our eyes searched the tell-tale dust, and found the sleek, straight trail of a pneu in the
midst of wobbling cart tracks. We had but to follow that straight trail, then, I said, to come
up with Carmona and interfere with his new plans.

Now we were racing through a wide region of salt marsh, where within enclosures grazed hundreds
of fierce black bulls, sooner or later to die in the arena. The country became desolate, and
curiously sad. We met no more peasants’ carts or laden donkeys as the road began to undulate
among the foothills of distant mountain ranges.

“What an ideal place for a band of Colonel O’Donnel’s bandidos, eh?” said Dick; then drew in
his breath with a sharpness that cut the sentence short, as we whirled round a hummock at a
turning of the road.

                                  XXXIII

THE SEVEN MEN OF ECIJA

Close in front of us was drawn up a large automobile, its front wheels mounted on a barrier
of rough stones built across the highway. Rolled in the dust lay a leather-clad chauffeur,
limp in unconsciousness or death; and with their backs to the car, two young men stood bravely
defending themselves against seven.

So suddenly did we burst upon the scene, and so furiously had I to put on the brake, that I
saw only a wild picture of determined faces pale above flashing blades, fierce faces under
red peasant caps, and carbines used as clubs. Then Dick and I were out of the Gloria; and instead
of two there were four against seven.

Where were the revolvers we had bought by Don Cipriano’s advice at Madrid, for just such an
emergency as this?—In our suit-cases at the Cortijo de Santa Rufina, forgotten from the moment
of purchase until this moment of need. But, as by one accord, each seized a jagged stone which
had rolled from the barricade, and before we had had time for two consecutive thoughts we had
joined the strangers, and all four were fighting like demons.

Oddly enough, the seven red caps did not fire their carbines, and had apparently directed all
their efforts to disarming or stunning the automobilists. But at sight of us their tactics
changed. Surprised at first, their astonishment was burnt up by rage. Four of the seven turned
upon us, and drew knives, but quick as light I had wrenched one of them out of a brown hand,
giving its owner a smashing blow between the eyes with my stone.

Down he dropped like an ox, and I was ready for another; but the blade of a third would have
slid between my ribs had not one of the seven cried out sharply, “Stop! A red car—a red car.
These are the men we want.”

“Disable them,” yelled another voice; but it was easier said than done. The second’s pause
which followed the warning shout saved my skin. The brigand’s knife flew; and he got a side
blow on the temple which sent him spinning.

We were now four against five; but already the right arm of another red cap spouted crimson
from the blade in a sword-stick which was flashing blue lightning, and another wore a dark
spot on his shirt—a spot which spread and changed its shape.

There was no time to look at faces. I scarcely saw the features of friend or foe, and could
not have sworn to the identity of one man had my life depended on it. But I knew that two beside
whom we fought were brave beyond the common, that they were worth fighting for and with. We
were all four shoulder to shoulder now, our backs against the car, though how we had won through
to that position I could not have told.

Another red cap had gone down on one knee, cursing, and there was a fresh blot of crimson on
a dark-stained shirt. We four had the advantage now, for we had come to no harm but a few bruises
and an aching head or two, when suddenly there was a howl from the fellow last down, “El guardia
civile!”

It was true. Out of the distance rode two men, dashing towards us from the direction of Jerez.
Far away still, their white, black, and red uniforms caught the sun; and guessing from the
knot of forms swaying round a motor-car that something was wrong, the pair spurred their horses
to a gallop.

“It’s too hot for us!” panted the brigand I took for the leader. He growled an order; and supporting
two of their fallen comrades who were able to help themselves, the uninjured pair made off
towards a small wood where I now saw horses tethered. After them we went; but they promptly
left their half-disabled friends to shift for themselves, and loaded their carbines—so lately
clubs—with quickness almost incredible.

An instant later two black muzzles covered us; and the tide of battle might after all have
turned disastrously, had not the shrill ping of a bullet warned the enemy that there was no
time to waste upon reprisals.

One of the civil guard had fired from a distance, but with precise aim, as a yell of pain announced.
A man already wounded got another souvenir of the encounter; and out of the seven only four
could get to their saddles. One limped in the rear, but he had lost his carbine; one sat where
his comrades had flung him in their flight, and the last of the seven—stunned by my stone—lay
breathing stertorously on the road.

“After them—after them!” one of the young men who had fought so brilliantly shouted now to
the civil guards. “Don’t let them get away.”

For the first time I looked at him with seeing eyes. Then, I could hardly stifle an exclamation.
It was the King.

He gave me back look for look, smiling that brave and charming smile which has magic in it
to transform an enemy into a loyal servant.

I had my cap off now, and so had Dick, who wore the jaunty air I had seen him wear in more
than one battle.

“I have to thank you both,” said the King. “And—not for the first time. Our cars, as well as
ourselves, have met before. Wasn’t it—near Biarritz?”

I felt the blood stream up to the roots of my hair. “Your Majesty has a King’s memory for faces,”
I stammered.

“There are faces one doesn’t forget,” said he. “But we’ll talk of that presently. Now we have
work here.”

The King’s companion was already down on one knee by the side of the chauffeur, pouring aguardiente
from a flask into the man’s half-open mouth. As for the fellow I had hit, I was sure that he
would presently come round, but little the worse for wear; and I suggested that Dick and I
find a rope in the car, which would bind him and the two other half-disabled ones. But the
King would not let us work alone. He did as much as we, and more, before we were joined by
the young officer who was his friend.

Discouraged and weak from loss of blood, as well as the loss of their carbines and their comrades,
the wounded brigands made no further fight. But they were silent, save for a muttered oath
or two, and I made up my mind that the true secret of this morning’s work would never be torn
from them.

For there was, of course, a secret. The King, who had not the clue which I held, saw that,
and wondered why the brigands had not wished at first to shoot us. Plainly, their plan had
been to make captives.

The obvious idea was that they would have conveyed their prisoners to some brigands’ nest in
the mountains, in the hope of obtaining a rich ransom. But they had evidently expected an automobile,
or they would not have raised a barricade, just round a sharp corner on a particularly lonely
piece of road.

Could they have been lying in wait for the King? This seemed impossible, as he had told no
one that he was going out, and the expedition had indeed been made on the impulse, in the company
of but one companion beside the chauffeur. He had intended to have a spin, and discover the
state of the roads as far as practicable on the way to Jerez before turning back for the procession
in the afternoon. And that evening he must return to Madrid. No, it was not the King for whom
the seven men had prepared.

Who, then, was to have been their prey?

I believed that I could have answered this question, but I kept silent; and there was no reason
why the King should guess that I had a suspicion.

“At all events,” he said, “we have you and your friend to thank that the affair was not more
serious. I hope we should have been able to give a good account of ourselves; but seven against
two are long odds. And there seems a fate in it that you should have come to me in the nick
of time to-day as well as at Biarritz. I should like to know your names.”

I had dreaded this. Foolishly, perhaps, I felt that I could not bear to see the cordial light
in his eyes fade to proud coldness, as it must when he knew me for a son of the man who had
tried to place another on his throne. Besides, that I should at such a moment announce myself
a Casa Triana would seem like bidding for pardon as a reward for what I had done. The confession
stuck in my throat; and while I hesitated, Dick spoke.

“My friend didn’t mean you to know, sir,” said he, gabbling so fast that I could not stop him;
“but this isn’t the second time he’s happened to be around when there was a little thing to
be done for your Majesty,—it’s the third. Yesterday it was he who snatched that bomb away from
the man under the paso, collared the other fellow, and stuck the bomb in a smashed water-jar,
although he gave the credit to the chauffeur—who, by the way, is ‘shover’ to this car. My friend
here is travelling, as you might say, incog. for important private reasons, which he’ll want
you to know some day, sir, if he doesn’t now; and that’s why, when Ropes the chauffeur happened
along, he made him a present of all the praise.”

The King flushed, looking me straight in the eyes with an expression so noble and at the same
time so kind that, had we lived a century or two ago, when men were not ashamed to show their
true feelings, I should have thrown myself at his feet.

“I thank you again,” he said, “for everything. I’m glad to know you are Spanish, even if I
am to know no more. But am I to know no more?”

“Will your Majesty pardon me,” I asked, “if I beg to remain nameless for the present?”

“I could pardon you far graver crimes,” the King said smiling; “and I’m sure your reason, whatever
it is, reflects nothing but honour on yourself. I owe you a debt. Claim it’s payment in my
gratitude whenever you will; the sooner the better. And if you want a friend, you’ll know where
to find one.”

He held out his hand, and when I took it, shook mine warmly in English fashion. Something else
he was about to say on a second thought, when his friend—who had now restored the chauffeur
to dazed consciousness—drew his attention. “Sir,” he said, “the guardia civile are coming back
without prisoners.”

A minute or two later the two men had galloped up to us, one wounded in the cheek. They had
chased the brigands, exchanging shots, until suddenly, having passed beyond a clump of trees
and a few lumpy hummocks of sand, the band had vanished as if by magic. The civil guards had
explored the spot for some cleverly concealed hiding-place, which they knew must exist within
the space of two hundred metres, but they had found nothing. And as they had had no time to
ascertain the condition of the men left for us to deal with, they had thought it best to return
lest the wounded enemy prove not to be hors de combat after all.

Fortunately the distance from this lonely spot to Jerez was not more than thirty kilometres,
and within three miles there was a farm. Here a cart could be got to take the wounded brigands
into the town; and from Jerez a posse of men would be immediately sent out to scour the country
for the escaped brigands.

The King, whom the guardia civile recognized with respectful surprise, was now anxious to get
back to Seville, where he was due in the royal box for the Good Friday procession, and must
appear by five o’clock at latest. He delayed only long enough to be sure that his chauffeur
was not hurt beyond a slight concussion of the brain, to speak a few kind words to the civil
guard, and to say a significantly emphasized “Au revoir” to Dick and me. Then, taking the wheel
himself, whilst the half-dazed chauffeur lay in the tonneau, he backed the big, reddish-brown
car off the barricade, and darted away in a cloud of dust at a good forty miles an hour.

It was left for us to do what we could to advance the civil guard with their task; and though
we had already lost too much time for my peace of mind, it was our plain duty to help those
who had helped us. When we had levelled the rough barricade we reluctantly bundled the wounded
men into our tonneau, and going at a pace which enabled the civil guards to gallop close behind
us, we steered for the farm of which they had spoken. There, in a buzz of excitement, the brigands
were piled into a cart; and leaving them to follow, presided over by one mounted guard leading
his comrade’s horse, we took the other on to Jerez in our car, so that the search party might
be organized the sooner.

Sometimes virtue brings its own reward, and mine came when I learned that our new companion
had met an automobile going at a great pace towards Jerez. It had gone so fast that, in the
dust, he was not sure of the colour or number of persons inside, but he thought that he had
seen several ladies.

If he could he would have compelled us to stop in Jerez and give evidence of the attack by
brigands; but laughingly we told him that, rather than be delayed again, we would spill him
out by the roadside and vanish into space before he could set the telegraph to work. As for
the brigands, the leader with three others had escaped, and the faces of those captured were
not known to the guard. But the fact that they had been seven was significant in his opinion;
and he believed that they would prove to be men of Ecija, forming a band officially supposed
to be defunct.

Should we give a hint of our suspicions, we knew well that every effort would be made to detain
us at Jerez, and such a catastrophe I would have avoided at almost any price, unless there
had been a hope of handicapping Carmona. But that there was no such hope I was as sure as that
the abortive plan had been organized by him.

How he had communicated so quickly with his friends the Seven, I did not pretend to say, unless
he had known where to find their leader, and visited him this morning in his car. Whatever
he had done, however, he would not have been fool enough to jeopardize his reputation for the
sake of laying me by the heels. The fact that he had claimed the aid of bandits proved that
he wished to dispose of me without implicating himself, though why he had not adopted the far
simpler plan of denouncing me as Casa Triana to the police, I could not conceive. Still, there
was ingenuity in this idea. If a young man—or two young men—were captured in a lonely place
known to be infected with brigands; if such young men were held for ransom, and kept out of
the way for weeks or months, what was all that to a Duke of Carmona?

What if, when one of those young men appeared in the world again (minus an ear or a finger,
perhaps), he told a fairy story about the enmity of the Duke, and reminded the public of an
old nurse’s tale concerning a bond between the house of Carmona and the leader of the seven
famous brigands? Who would believe him? Who would not think it a silly and spiteful attempt
on the part of an embittered man to injure a grandee of Spain?

Carmona would not have taken the whole Seven into his confidence, that was certain. He would
have appealed to the leader alone. That leader had escaped; and even if he were captured he
would not betray the Duke. Why should he, since it would not help himself; whereas, if he were
loyal, Carmona would secretly use influence to lighten his lot?

Dick and I discussed these matters in English, under the nose of the civil guard, as I drove
on to Jerez; and shrewd Yankee as he was, for once he accepted the Spanish point of view. If
we were to “get even with Carmona and pay him out for this,” it must be in some less clumsy
way, Dick agreed.

                                  XXXIV

THE RACE

It was lucky for us that the guard had met an automobile between the brigands’ barricade and
Jerez, otherwise we should have been at sea. The road-mender near Utrera had seen but one car,
and that might have been the King’s; but now we had something to hope for still; and Dick and
I resolved to get out of Jerez as soon as possible, provided we could learn that the car we
followed had gone on. If we lingered, the civil guard might, after all, think it his duty to
have us detained, and we did not wish to give him time to change his mind.

“It’s a pity, though,” said Dick, with a thirsty sigh. “I’ve always had a sneaking fancy that
if I ever came to Spain I’d stop at Jerez—‘the place where the sherry comes from’—and potter
about in huge, cool bodegas, sampling golden wine from giant casks with queer names on them.
Only think what it would feel like to-day to have a stream of mellow ‘Methusalem’ trickling
over our dusty lips and down our dry throats? Great Scott! I daren’t dwell on it, since it
can’t be. But it’s a grand chance missed.”

Almost as he spoke we flashed into a neat white town, with green glimpses of patios; and groaning,
Dick shut his eyes upon a great bodega where the famous names of Gonzalez and Byass loomed
black on white.

We dumped our civil guard at the entrance to a side street which was, we hinted, rather narrow
for automobiles, and, not waiting for his grateful adieux, we darted on, asking a bootblack
the way to the best hotel. At the “Sign of the Swan” we paused just long enough to give the
Gloria water, and to find out that a motor-car had stopped for a few moments about two hours
ago. There were ladies inside, but they had not got out. A gentleman, covered with dust, had
ordered sherry and biscuits, which he and the chauffeur had themselves carried to the other
passengers, appearing rather impatient with the waiters. This gentleman had spoken Spanish
in the hotel, but had been heard conversing in English with his friends. They had remained
about fifteen minutes, and had then gone on. A waiter remembered seeing the chauffeur and his
master consulting a road-map, and had heard the word “Cadiz” spoken.

This gave us an apparently unbroken clue, and half expecting to be caught in a police-trap,
we slipped stealthily out of Jerez, with a spurt of speed as streets were left behind.

Still we were watched by purple-robed, guardian mountains, sitting in conclave. A running fire
of poppies swept the fields between which we travelled, while distant meadows were paved with
gold, or with forget-me-not blue like squares of the sky’s mosaic fallen out. The air grew
luminous as the crystal bell which hangs over the lagoons of Venice; and with the subtle change
of atmosphere we had in our nostrils the first tang of the sea.

Here and there a strip of lush green was belted with cactus, but we were driving through salt
marshes, and round us spread a plain piled with strange, shining pyramids of salt, white and
bright as hills of diamond dust. Then, suddenly, a broken line of turrets and domes and spires
was cut in gleaming pearl against the sky; and it was not the opal clearness of the air alone
which took the memory to Venice. Here was the same ebb and flow of salt water in glittering
lagoons, the same dark, waving lines of seaweed, the same wide stretch of sapphire beyond the
alabaster domes.

For Spain, the road was good, and we glided smoothly through the pretty old town of Puerta
de Santa Maria, with its big bodegas and Byronic associations. Across the Guadalquivir, where
it tumbles into the Atlantic, dashing through an aromatic forest of umbrella pines we came
out at Queen Isabel’s white, Moorish looking Puerto Real. Thence, distant Cadiz on its rock
appeared to change position bewilderingly, like a group of fairy castles, as we swept round
the rim of that semicircular bay where once the Phœnicians traded in metals of England, and
amber of the Baltic; where the ships of the Great Armada lay; and where Essex wrought destruction.

At San Fernando, I was assailed by doubt. What if, after all, the car we sought had not gone
to Cadiz, but had here taken the coast road to Algeciras? The great conference was only just
over, there; tourists of all nations were flocking to the town, attracted by curiosity; and
as the place boasts the most beautiful hotel in Spain, it seemed likely that in flying from
Seville the Duke should choose Algeciras instead of Cadiz. But some fishermen, on that rope
of sand which binds Cadiz to the mainland, had seen a car pass a few hours before. Yes, only
one; and they thought it was grey. It had four or five passengers, and was going to Cadiz.

Thither we spurted, Dick studying a plan of the city as we flew along the straight road embanked
above the sand. By the time we arrived in silver Cadiz he was able to say in which direction
I must drive to find the chief hotel; and in an open place not far from the crowded port we
stopped.

Dick stayed to guard the car from the crowd which quickly collected, while I went to question
the landlord.

No travellers with an automobile were stopping with him at present; but one had arrived a couple
of hours ago, perhaps, and its passengers had wished to remain overnight. Unfortunately, however,
as a big ship had just come in from America every room was taken.

There was no other hotel at which persons of taste could stop in comfort; and after some discussion,
the owner of the car had decided to run on to Algeciras by way of Tarifa. The party, consisting
of three ladies, one gentleman, and the chauffeur, had taken a hasty meal, and had got away
about an hour and a half before our arrival.

“Those beastly bandidos!” I exclaimed to Dick in a rage of disappointment. “If it hadn’t been
for them we should have been on the heels of the grey car, and caught it up here at the hotel.
I should have been able to snatch Monica away from under their noses—for I know she wouldn’t
have failed me.”

“Those beastly bandidos introduced you to the King,—don’t forget that,” said Dick consolingly.
“And the day may come before long when you’ll be glad of that introduction. You can never tell,
in a life like yours. And once Carmona’s at Algeciras, why, you’ve got him in a kind of cul-de-sac
from which he can’t escape, any more than a mouse can jump out of a basin half full of water.
If he takes rooms at the Reina Cristina, you’ll come plump upon him. If he tries to return
by road, he’ll run into your arms; and one or the other must happen unless he puts his auto
on a train or steamer, neither of which is likely.”

Somewhat comforted, I proposed to follow at once, but Dick wistfully reminded me that the afternoon
was wearing on, and he was wearing with it. Soon he would be worn out, unless I gave him something
to eat. It seemed years since that cup of coffee and roll of the early morning.

If we needed nourishment, the car needed water. Both needs were supplied somewhat grudgingly
by me, though the physical part of me did appreciate the coolness of the restaurant, and the
strange dishes for which Cadiz is famous; the mushroom-flavoured cuttle-fish, the golden dorado
in sherry.

Then off we started again, to take a road which the landlord warned us was none too good. People
who travelled by carriage or diligence had evil things to say of the fourteen to eighteen hours
of journey, though the scenery was fine. This did not sound enlivening; but what good horses
could do in fourteen hours, the Gloria could do in three or four.

Through ramifications of narrow streets I steered the car out of Cadiz. In all directions they
branched off from one another, interlacing, overlapping with the intricacy of a puzzle. The
houses were high, too, and there was not a window with glittering balcony of glass and iron,
where dark-eyed women did not lean between heaven and earth, to smile down upon our humming
motor. It was all very quaint and gay, in spite of ancient, tragic memories; and though few
cities of Spain are older than Cadiz—which claims Hercules for founder—the white houses looked
as clean as if they had been built yesterday or some mediæval model.

We tore back to San Fernando; and soon came upon the bad surface which had been prophesied.
The Gloria bumped over ruts and grooves, and scattered stones, and perforce I had to slacken
speed lest she should break some blood-vessel. Nevertheless we did not waste time in covering
the six miles to Chiclana de la Frontera; and when we had crashed through this ancient stronghold
of the Phœnicians we jolted out into an open, sandy solitude, with only the knoll of Barosa
to break its blank monotony.

Even a mind preoccupied must spare a few thoughts for Graham and the “Faugh-a-ballaghs,” on
this ground where Spanish men and British men fought shoulder to shoulder against the French
invader. But when we passed the road branching away to Conil, and held straight on across the
little river Salado, I heard a thing more instructive than history, more exciting than romance.

A man we met—who looked almost old enough to remember the brave days of the great tunny fishing—had
seen a large automobile, not more than an hour ago. Evidently, then, we were gaining on the
quarry. The news gave me courage.

The sea and the Straits of Gibraltar were near now, and though they were not in sight yet,
nor the sandy headland of Trafalgar, the smell of salt came to us with the wind.

At the old Moorish town of Vejer de la Frontera (scarcely a town in this storied corner of
the world but tells, with its “de la Frontera,” of days when the Moors were crushed back, ever
farther and farther) we had travelled full thirty miles from Cadiz. Childish voices screaming
round the car cried that another automobile was not far ahead; and like a racehorse nearing
the finish, we put on speed, dashing at a rush to the Laguna de Janda, over the ground where
Tarik the Conquerer began his great running fight with Rodrigo. So through little Venta de
Tabilla, leaving the lake to plunge into an imposing gorge which was a doorway to the sea.
There, spread out before, were the straits and the burning African coast; Europe and Africa
face to face; white Tarifa jutting into the green waves; Trafalgar in the distance, smothered
in clouds like clinging memories; Tangier opposite, a crescent of pearls, tossed seaward by
towering blue waves which were the Atlas Mountains. Taking the wild beauty of the scene with
all that it meant, it was one of the great sights of the world—the world once supposed to end
here, with Hercules’ pillars.

As the Gloria sprang on towards Tarifa, a fierce wind which had been lying in wait leapt at
the car and sent her staggering. Gust after gust darted from ambush, half blinding our ungoggled
eyes with the sand they flung by handfuls into our faces. But we jammed on our hats; and the
Gloria bore the onslaughts bravely, her voice drowned in the screaming of the wind, which might
have been the war cries of those Moorish armies whose battleground this land had been for seven
centuries.

As the good white road mounted the shoulder of a down on its way to Tarifa, that most Moorish
of all Spanish towns stood up like a model cut out of alabaster in a frame of jade. Clear against
the sky rose the crumbling tower of Guzman el Bueno, the Abraham of mediæval history; but our
way, instead of leading through the strange old city, passed the horseshoe gate of entrance,
and bore us up into the mountains.

Not a soul did we meet, once we turned our backs upon Tarifa. Only the wild wind would not
desert us, but roared in strange voices along the hollows of the land, in a country where all
was wild. The rough mountain sides were peppered with stunted oaks; and as our way ascended
more thrilling grew the views, with the smoke of great steamers streaming black pennons over
the sea, and the Atlas Mountains squatting Sphinx-like to guard the African shore.

Then, we lost the hard blue line of water, screened behind mountains; and slipping down over
the summit we hid from the bellowing wind. The car flew like a circling bird round the wide
curves, and dropped us in peaceful vales sheltered by cork forests, and rocky walls inlaid
with the silver of trickling streams.

Thus, back to the wide sea view and downs whose flowery carpet was torn by jagged nail-heads
of rock. Cork trees, sombre as giant olives clad in mourning, strong in their corselets and
shields of half-stripped bark as knights in armour, covered the hills like a vast army. At
the foot of the hoary warriors, waved bracken and yellow iris in tangled masses; high above
their heads sailed here and there a golden eagle of a vulture, looking like paper birds or
Japanese kites.

Far below us the white houses of Algeciras lay scattered, a broken necklace of white beads;
and from across the water that dark lion, Gibraltar, crouched as if waiting to spring.

Whether Dick or I saw it first I can’t tell, but we exclaimed together, “There’s the other
car!” And there it was, a moving speck upon the road in a white cloud of dust.

After it we went with a bound of increased speed. No need now to stop and ask the way to the
hotel; all we had to do was to follow and catch up with the Lecomte at the steps of the Hotel
Reina Cristina. A wild idea flashed into my head, that I would snatch Monica as she alighted
from Carmona’s car, fling her to Dick in mine, jump in after her myself, and be off before
the others had time to recover from their surprise.

The more I thought of this the more feasible did it seem. No slowing up for sharp turnings
now; trust to luck that the road was clear ahead! I was thrilling with hope and excitement
as we dashed after the disappearing dust-covered automobile into a wide open gateway. The scent
of heliotrope and rose geranium, hot under the April sun, intoxicated me as we swept along
the white avenue, and came in sight of the other car just drawing up before an arcaded loggia.

                                   XXXV

THE MOON IN THE WILDERNESS

Two ladies and their maid were getting out. An American young man was helping them down. The
grey car was not a Lecomte. The owner, his chauffeur, and the three women were of types entirely
different from those we sought.

The discovery, coming after such exaltation of hope, was like a blow over the heart.

“Hard luck,” exclaimed Dick. “But Carmona’s car must be somewhere.”

“If it ever started,” I said. “I begin to think now that Carmona rallied his brigands, and
sent me out to meet them, knowing I’d surely follow if I believed he had gone that way.”

“Oh come, there’s hope still,” Dick consoled me. And turning to the owner of the car, he asked
if he had seen another grey automobile. He had not; and, on further questioning, he went on
to tell us that he had started from Seville meaning to stop at Cadiz and come on here to-morrow;
but the hotel had been full, so he had “rushed it” to Algeciras. These details proved that
his was the motor we had been chasing from the first; and the excellent Spanish which the Californian
spoke to the porters accounted for one misleading bit of information.

While the party of care-free tourists went indoors, Dick and I stood in our coats of dust to
discuss the situation. We soon agreed that there was but one thing to do. Wire Colonel O’Donnel
for news of Carmona’s movements, and wait where we were for an answer.

To none save those who count every moment precious could such a delay have been irksome. The
place was a paradise, the garden a corner of Eden, and the Reina Cristina more like the country
house of some Spanish millionaire than a hotel.

Leaving the Gloria, we went in to write a telegram; and in a court, charming as the patio of
a Moorish palace, we sat to plan out a message. The people of the hotel confirmed our fears
that no answer could come from Seville till morning; so Dick busied himself in choosing rooms,
while, to save time, I took the car by the sea road to the telegraph-office in town.

How many miles up and down those flower-bordered paths Dick and I walked next morning waiting
for news, neither could have told. Eleven o’clock had struck when Colonel O’Donnel’s answer
was brought to me in the garden.

“On receipt of wire, interviewed verger,” I read. “Made him confess to accepting large sum
from agent of C—— to send you on wrong track. Making inquiries and hope let you know in few
hours whether C—— really gone; if so, which direction. Advise you stop Algeciras till hear
from me again. Am sending on luggage there.”

“A few hours!” I was beginning to know too well what a few hours could mean in Spain where,
to a population of philosophers it mattered nothing if a thing happened to-morrow or the day after.

Gibraltar was empurpled with night and sequined with ten thousand lights when the next telegram
arrived—a message which covered two telegraph forms.

“Just learned C—— left to-day for Granada with same party. Took train, and whether shipped
automobile not found out. C—— believed to be ill. Friend at club says C—— been heard say knows
at Granada man worth twenty physicians, natural bone-setter, herb doctor. Perhaps wishes consult
this person. Illness seems mysterious. House of C—— well known at Granada. Inquire at Washington
Irving, where suppose you will stay. Will wire or write to that address.”

I should have been off within the hour, but the quickest way of reaching Granada was by Ronda,
and there was no road for automobiles. One could walk, one could ride, along a bridle path
through gorges unsurpassed for grandeur; but it was an expedition of two days, whereas if we
could curb our impatience until early morning, we would reach Ronda by train in about four hours.

Not being quite mad, we waited, rose at five, and before seven were steaming out of Algeciras,
while the great cloud-cataract of the Levanter churned and boiled over Gibraltar. On a truck,
travelling by the same train, was my brave Gloria, none the worse for yesterday’s wild flight,
and ready for another when she could take the road beyond Ronda. I had not ceased yet to wonder
at the expedition with which she had been shipped. Dick discovered, however, that the manager
of the line was a Scotsman, a kind of fairy godfather for all the region round, which explained
the mystery; and his road was wonderful. In a glass coach, which was an “observation car,”
we tore through scenery so diversified that it might have been chosen from the finest bits
of a whole continent. There were wooded ravines tapestried with pink sweetbrier; there were
far hill-towns like flocks of gulls resting on the edge of giddy precipices; there were strange
old fortresses; ruined Moorish castles; velvet-green fields with aloe hedges grey as lines
of broken slate; dark, noble gorges sprinkled with mother-o’-pearl flakes of white wild roses,
that drifted down the red rock into water green as onyx. There were blossomy bits of Holland
and long tracts of Switzerland. Glacier-mills in narrow gorges were like empty niches for colossal
statues of saints; pink and white orchards foamed at the feet of ancient look-out towers; black
rocks, like huge watch-dogs, seemed to crouch on cushions of wild flowers; and weeping willows
fringed the river with silver before it dashed away to do battle among the mountains; acacias
showered perfume, and orange groves pushed so near to the train that a hand reached out could
have plucked their golden globes.

There were caves and underground rivers, haunted by enchanted Moors; and at last, a brief glimpse
of Ronda hanging high against the sky, vanishing like the fabled Garden of Iram, and not to
be seen again until the train mounted the cliff by many loops.

Just as we arrived at the end of the journey a thought in my brain seemed to snap like the
trigger of a carbine. In my haste to get off by the first morning train I had forgotten to
try and find more petrol at Algeciras, although I had not enough left to get the car to Granada.

There was just time to telegraph back to the Reina Cristina and beg some of the young Californian,
who had fallen so deeply in love with the place that he intended to stay a week. We had become
friendly and he would certainly grant the favour, therefore we might count on travelling that
night by acetylene and moonlight. Meanwhile, there was a long day to wait, but I tramped off
my restlessness as best I could in exploring every foot of Ronda.

After that one look upward from the train, when Ronda hung before our eyes over a thousand
foot gorge, we had at last sneaked in, so to speak, by a back door. If it had not been for
that first glimpse, and if we had not read “Miranda of the Balcony” we should not have guessed,
in walking from the station to the Alameda, that Ronda differed from other Moorish towns. But
far away was a barrier of iron railing, and a curious effect as if beyond it everything ended
except the sky. We walked on, reached that railing, and leaned over.

No picture, no book had been able to give us a real idea of Ronda. It was stupendous—wonderful.
We stared down at the world beneath as if we hung in a balloon, for the rock fell away from
our feet, a sheer precipice; and men working in the valley below were like tiny crabs. The
Moorish mills were white, broken hour-glasses, shaking out a stream of silver; geese on the
river were floating bread-crumbs; a string of donkeys crawling up the steep Moorish road were
invisible under their packs, which looked like mushrooms with moving stems.

The noise of the river floated up to us with a muffled roar, and across the deep valley its
water had cut, tumbled a wild mountain-land, crossed here and there by white threads of road
which clung to the sky-line and disappeared.

“Great Scott, if this eagle’s nest doesn’t take the cake!” exclaimed Dick, always modern. “If
there were any more to take, it could have that, too. Hurrah for you, rock and river. You’re
sublime.”

But we had not seen all, by hanging over that iron railing, nor nearly all. There was the palace
of the Moorish King, and the terrible steps cut by Christian captives. There was the bridge
swung over the gorge; and the far-famed “window” of rock, one of the wonders of the world.
There was the old Roman amphitheatre, turned into a bull-ring; the town wall, which Hercules
helped to build; the Roman gate, and the Moorish gate, and the house where Miranda lived; and
a hundred other things to be found by mounting steep hills or sliding down wild precipices.

The splendid mountain air had given Dick a ferocious appetite; nevertheless he could hardly
be torn from the cliff above the “window,” and vowed that it would be worth while coming all
the way from New York to Ronda next year when the grand new hotel should be finished.

Rain fell while we lunched, but we wandered out again, in a thin mist like a sieve, through
which sifted turquoises and silver spangles; nor did we cease wandering until it was time for
the train to arrive with the expected petrol. The Californian had not failed us; and with a
good supply of food for the Gloria, and enough for ourselves to last until morning, we set
off, against the advice of everyone.

The sky had cleared, and twilight would soon merge into moonlight; but we would need the moon
and stars as well on the road we had to travel. In more than one place it was marked on my
map by an ominous, thin black line which meant “Motorists, beware.” The country was sparsely
populated; people whispered of bandidos; and if anything happened to the car in the middle
of the night, there would be no means of getting help.

Still, if we won through without serious mishap, we should save a day; for there was no train
to Granada until morning, and Dick was as keen on the adventure, for the adventure’s sake,
as I was for another reason.

After all, we reminded each other, it was a journey of only a hundred and twenty miles. With
no traffic to interfere, the Gloria ought to fly over the distance in four hours; and what
if everyone did try to discourage us? We had experienced that sort of thing in Biarritz, and
the dangers had resolved themselves into chimeras. Nothing in Spain was as troublesome nowadays
as the busybodies would have one believe—not even the beggars.

My big searchlights cast a flashing ring on the road, which the car seemed to push swiftly
before it as it ran.

Dick peered through the uncertain light for the hill town of Teba, from which the Empress Eugenie
took her title, but my eyes were glued to the road.

To think, if we had known at Jerez that Granada was the lodestar, we could have reached Ronda
in a run of four hours day before yesterday! But it was useless to repine, and fate had given
us Ronda.

By the time we had passed through the straggling village of Campillos the moon was up, a great
white, incandescent globe of light, so brilliant that instead of draining colour from rock,
and grass, and flower, it gave new and almost supernatural values to all.

We had the world to ourselves, a wonderful world like a vast silver bowl half full of jewels.
Over the tops of mountains cut jaggedly of steel, strange figures seemed to run along the horizon.
Bathed in unearthly radiance lay fields of poppies like deep lakes of blood filling the valleys
between little rolling hills, and here and there a miniature mountain of pink or glittering
grey, rose out of the plain like a fairy palace which would be invisible in daylight. Olive
trees stretching away in straight lines on either side of endless avenues, fountained silver
under the moon, each avenue swept by a wave of poppies. It was an Aladdin’s Cave landscape
made out of rare metals and precious stones that imitated trees and flowers.

Antiquera on its wild crags, was a ragged black hole in the silver sky, until we shot into
the town under the dominating castle of crimson memories.

There, was life and music still; guitars tinkled, children who should have been in bed frolicked
in the streets with lambs that followed them like dogs, while everyone, old and young, laughed
and hooted at the Gloria as she shot by without stopping, on her way to Loja and Granada.

A sharp turn to the left swept us out of Antiquera, and so good was the road that Dick and
I began to laugh at the gloomy prognostications which thus far had not been fulfilled.

My spirits rose to such a height that as we passed under the Lovers’ Rock, still haunted by
the Moorish maiden and her Christian lover, I quoted Southey, verse after verse of the old-fashioned
poetry coming back to my mind. The Peña de los Enamorados stood up like a small model of Gibraltar,
rising out of the plain; and as we wound on among other pinnacles almost as majestic, we could
see the bleached skeleton of Archidona hanging on its mountain. Once the place had been a famous
nest of brigands; and when after climbing a tremendous hill, we had come into its long white
street, Dick was of opinion that Archidona of to-day was still an ideal summer resort for the
fraternity in case they should crave a town life. Each low-browed house in the interminable
avenue looked a fit nursery for mysteries and secrets. Here and there a dark face framed in
a knotted red handkerchief peered from a lighted doorway, staring after the Gloria until she
had slipped over the brow of the hill to coast smoothly down another as steep.

There, had we but known, the peaceful olive grove through which we passed and hushed the song
of nightingales was to be our last glimpse of peace. Beyond that silver barrier lay chaos,
a chaos of wild mountains, deep chasms, and grim steppes, solitary, unpeopled, forbidding under
the moon!

If we broke an axle here, with leagues to walk to the nearest farm, there was no hope of Granada
to-morrow. And now the road was equally well fitted for breaking axles, necks, and hearts.

It was made of rock in petrified waves, among which the Gloria floundered and buck-jumped as
long ago Dick had expected her to do when she crossed the Spanish border. Every part of her
shivered as though she were a horse in the bull-ring, and I pitied her as if she had a nerve
in every spring and chain.

“This is no road; it’s a nightmare,” groaned Dick. But if it were, it was a nightmare which
ran with us glaring, showing frightful fangs, for mile after mile of horror. Just as the steep
slope of a descent offered a softer cushion for the suffering tyres, and hope stirred within
us, we broke into such a region as imagination pictures in the streets of Lisbon after the
great earthquake. Gullies and vertical rifts scored the highway serpentining hither and thither,
the chasms gaping to swallow the Gloria or at least bite off a wheel.

Now the earthy lip of a cleft would crumble and fall in as our driving-wheels skimmed along
the edge; now, steer with all the nerve and nicety I might, the Gloria would rock as she hung
half over a gully. Somehow I coaxed her down the hill, and driving out from the labyrinth of
crevasses, I breathed a sigh of relief. But the next instant, I had only time to jam on the
brakes to save the car from vaulting into a small river which ran across the road. Carefully
embanked on either side, the stream flowed swiftly, cutting the descent at right angles.

Whatever the depth might prove, I had to risk it. Mounting the nearer embankment, I drove down
into the running water, where the moon laughed up at me as I broke her glittering reflection.

“Good old San Cristóbal!” cried Dick as we came through without damage and climbed the opposite
bank, to plump down a breakneck descent on the other side.

But it was early still to praise the saint. We had only to look ahead to see how much more
he had to do for us, if we were to win through to Granada at all. Where a little clump of houses
had assembled at the bottom of the hill, as if to watch our struggle, another and far broader
river flowed.

It also raced across the highway, as if roads were made for river-beds; and this time the situation
was so serious that I stopped the Gloria to reflect.

There was no doubt about it; this river was deep. Though a cart might ford it safely, and have
the flood of rippling silver no higher than the axles, it was different with an automobile.
I wondered bleakly what would happen to the silencer if its mass of heated metal were suddenly
plunged into cold water, and what would happen to the commutator.

“When in doubt, play a trump,” said Dick. “And I guess that camel-backed bridge is a trump,
if it’s only a knave—or the deuce.”

It was true, there was a narrow erection which might pass as a bridge, if one wished to pay
a compliment. It was of stone, and came to a steep point at the apex, like a “card tent” when
two cards receive support from one another. It was the question of a fraction of an inch, if
the Gloria were to squeeze over; but between the danger of a jam and the danger of a burst
cylinder, I decided to risk playing Dick’s trump.

First I got out and unscrewed the wheel-caps to give more clearance, then in again for the
trial, while Dick walked, ready to offer aid if it were needed. I had rasped through to the
top, and the Gloria had actually started on the down grade, when she gave a grinding scream,
and stuck between the parapets.

I tried to move, and could not. The car was hopelessly jammed.

“Nice fix,” said Dick. “If I was writing a book, I’d say, ‘this route only suitable for hundred
horse-power cars, built in small sections, and carrying cheerful passengers.’ Now, we were
cheerful once—and may be again. Chuck me over the key of the tool-box, will you?”

I did so without a word, lest if I uttered any they should be too strong. But curiosity overcame
me when I heard a metallic chinking, then the blows of a hammer.

“Only knocking down a bit of this old parapet,” was the calm answer to my question. “Some of
it’s gone already; why not more? I bet future generations will thank me—as it’s certain never
to be mended.”

As he spoke, there was a great splash, when a piece of the parapet, already weakened by years
of storm and stress, plumped over into the river. The car was released, and slid down the other
slope of the camel’s back.

Now it did seem that we might safely thank San Cristóbal, since nothing could well be worse
than the pass from which he had just delivered us, scratched, bruised, yet unbroken. We had
but to scramble out of the rough river-bed, bump over the level crossing of a railway, to come
out upon a broad, smooth highway like a road to paradise. Ready to shout with joy, I put on
speed, and the Gloria sprinted over the white and silent way as if she were happy to turn her
back upon Inferno.

Yesterday’s study of the map assured me that at length we had struck the main road from Malaga,
and there seemed every reason to believe that the ordeal just over would be our last. Flying
along at a good fifty miles an hour, under a tired moon that sought the west, presently a town
rose grandly up before us, throned on rocks in a wide valley, and pallid in the strange light
as some sad queen.

Loja, tragically lost key of Granada, sister of famed Alhama, stronghold of that fierce alcayde
who called Boabdil’s sultana daughter! Loja, and only thirty miles more to Granada.

We rushed towards that wide valley, and on to the mountain town which dared to repulse Ferdinand.
In the deserted streets the only sound was the singing of many springs, the same musical voices,
the same strains that Lord Rivers heard close upon five hundred years ago, when he came with
his English archers to help conquer the wild place. El Gran Capitán, too, had come here, a
lonely exile, after all his splendid services to an ungrateful king. He, too, had heard the
singing of Loja’s springs, not in triumph, but in sorrow.

Down in the valley beyond, the river cried a warning to us; but we did not heed, even when
the road surface changed again to gluey mud; squelching on, mile after mile, at the best pace
we could, and saying always that soon we should be on the Vega. So the dawn stole up and quivered
on the snows of the Sierra Nevada.

The moon was gone, and it must still be long before the sun would shine over the mountains,
when a black shadow like a great coffin deserted on the road, gave me pause. I pulled up in
haste, only just in time, and could hardly believe I saw aright. But there was no illusion.
We were on the highway from the port of Malaga to Granada, yet here was a broken bridge, a
noble structure which should have outworn centuries, tumbling into ruin.

The fall of the great central arch was no new thing, for moss and lichen enamelled its jagged
edges with green and gold. Some branches loosely strewn across the road were the only signposts
indicating this tragedy, though perhaps it was a story as old as the great earthquake of two-and-twenty
years ago.

A yard or so more and we should have been over; but San Cristóbal had not forgotten us; and
the next thing was, how to cross the river without a bridge. I turned and went back, discovering
wheel-tracks which showed an obscure bye-path dipping over the edge of the embankment. I followed,
and beheld the ford, a little farther on in a baby forest, where a broad stream lay in flood
between low banks.

“We’ll have to get through,” I said, and drove the Gloria into the water. If there should be
mud—but there were stones instead; and with tiny waves swishing among the spokes of her wheels
she set out to rumble over.

“I believe she’ll do it—” I had begun, when she gave a great hiss, as when a blacksmith plunges
a red-hot horseshoe into water; and a cloud of steam gushed up. Still I forced her on, expecting
each instant to hear some fatal crash, while we plunged deeper into the stream. Now the little
waves splashed coldly across my feet. Would they mount to the carburetor, spoil the ignition,
or, still worse, would they crack the cylinders?

Neither of us spoke, and the car stormed on, sobbing. For a moment she clawed in vain at something,
and then stumbled, as if on her knees, up the farther bank. Dripping water and puffing steam
she climbed to the high-road again, and, with a bound, started on through spouting mud, as
if nothing had happened. One would have thought her fired by some incentive as powerful as
mine, which forced her on in the face of all difficulties; and perhaps it was a song of gladness
which the motor hummed, as she came out upon the Vega.

Suddenly the first beams of the sun streamed down the white slopes of the far Sierra Nevada,
touched the vast fertile plain, and wrought magic with a castled hill which floated up, dreamlike,
from a purple haze where a great city lay asleep. Clustering vermilion towers blazed with the
gold of dawn, and dazzled our eyes with the glamour of romance. For the sleeping city was Granada,
and the red towers and gardens on the castled hill were the towers and gardens of the Alhambra.

The adventure was over. And under one of those roofs, dove-grey in the dawn, I hoped that Monica
was sleeping.

                                  XXXVI

WILES AND ENCHANTMENTS

In spite of dykes and dams, said Dick, we had arrived at a place to visit which had once seemed
to him as wonderful as finding the key of the rainbow. Yet here we were; and Granada—after
we had entered at last by crossing still another river—came out from under its spell of enchantment
when we saw it at close quarters. Only that wonderful hill above was magical still, as magical
to the eye as when Ibraham the astrologer decreed its gardens.

More than half the miradored Moorish houses had given place to modern French ones; and descendants
of the banished owners in far Tetuan and Tunis, might as well fling their keys and title-deeds
away.

The dome of Isabella’s cathedral and the towers of old, old churches rose from among the roofs
of commonplace streets; ordinary shops of yesterday and to-day ran up the steep hill towards
the Alhambra; but at a great gateway—la Puerta de las Granadas, raised by Charles the Fifth—the
centuries opened and let us drive through into the past.

At this hour of the morning, the deep green forest of the Alhambra park, beyond the classic
arch, was still as the enchanted wood which hid from the world the Sleeping Beauty in her palace.
The nightingales had gone to sleep, and the daylight birds had finished their first concert,
but another voice was singing, the joyous high soprano of water—water unseen, rippling through
subterranean channels; water seen tumbling in crystal runnels on either side of the road in
its bubbling way downhill.

Still we saw nothing of the enchanted vermilion towers which draw all the world across sea
and land. There was but a glimpse of ruddy battlements once at a turn of the road, through
a netting of trees and branches; then we were in a green cutting in the deep wood, where two
pleasant, old-fashioned hotels faced each other.

We were expected at the house named after that delicate and genial soul who awoke Europe and
America to the charm of the Alhambra. I had hopefully telegraphed from Ronda that we would
arrive early, en automobile; nevertheless, the landlord, knowing the route, was smilingly surprised
to see us.

There was a telegram; that was the first thing we learned; and it was from Colonel O’Donnel;
but he had no news to tell. He merely wired his advice that, if possible, Señor Waring should
come back to Seville immediately, as his evidence was now wanted in the affair of the bomb.

Dick at once said that he would not desert me, but I urged upon him the advisability of going.
He had seen me through my great adventure; and if Carmona and the others were in Granada there
was nothing he could do at the moment which I could not do for myself. If he failed to appear
in Seville, there might be trouble; and should I find that I needed his help, I would telegraph.

Pilar’s name was not spoken, but it rang in our thoughts, and Dick could not hide the flash
of eagerness that lit his eyes. Perhaps by this time she would have made up her mind whether
he were to have “yes” or “no” for his answer.

“My going shall depend on whether Carmona’s here or not,” he said; and I turned to the landlord
with a question. Did he know whether the Duke of Carmona and his mother had come, and brought
friends to their palace in Granada?

The Spaniard laughed. He knew but too well, since the arrival of the distinguished family had
roused something like an emeute in his and other hotels. Carmona palace was perhaps the most
interesting show-place left in the town of Granada, except the tombs of los Reyes Católicos
in the cathedral. It was the palace where Boabdil had fled from his father’s wrath; and after
the Alhambra and the Generalife it was the one thing that tourists came to see. Now they were
prevented from seeing it by the arrival of the Duke and Duchess, a calamity which did not happen
in the high season once in ten years. If the house (which had in these days but one grand suite
of furnished and habitable rooms) was occupied by its owners, it was usually for a few weeks
in the height of summer, after strangers had ceased to come south; or else in the autumn, before
the time for travellers. Now there was great dissatisfaction among the foreign visitors, who
considered themselves defrauded of their rights. Yesterday morning several parties of tourists
had insisted upon an entrance, and in the afternoon, in fulfilment of the Duke’s request, two
civil guards had been stationed before the door to keep would-be intruders at a distance.

This did not seem a hopeful outlook for me, in case I wished to try some such coup d’état as
I had planned in Seville. But there would be other ways of reaching Monica, I told myself,
when the landlord had gone on to say that the Duke was supposed to be seriously ill. If Carmona
were suffering, he would not be able to watch the members of his household as closely as before,
and it ought not to be impossible to let Monica know that I was in Granada. Once she understood
that I was ready and waiting to take her away, means would be found to reach her.

There was only time, when Dick had finally decided to go, for a bath and breakfast before I
spun him down to the station for the morning train.

Meanwhile I had learned that every room in our landlord’s two hotels was occupied, for it was
the most crowded season. But I was to have a villa belonging to the hotels given to me for
my entire use, a villa in an old Moorish garden of tinkling fountains, flowing rills, rose-entwined
miradores, jasmine arbours, myrtle hedges, and magnolia trees. The Carmen de Mata Moros was
to be mine for as few days or as many weeks as I chose to remain. Satisfied, therefore, that
I should not have to camp under the trees of the park, I determined, when I had seen Dick off,
to put up the car in the town of Granada, and reconnoitre the neighbourhood of the Carmona palace.

An inquiry here and there took me to the street without much delay. The palace, sacred to memories
of Boabdil, his gentle Sultana Zorayda, and his stern mother Ayxa, was to be found on the outskirts
of the Albaicín, that part of Granada once favoured by the Moorish aristocracy, now almost
given up to the poorer Spaniards, and gypsies rich enough and sophisticated enough to desert
their caves. Ferdinand and Isabel had granted the house to a rich Moorish noble who had fore-sworn
his religion to help them in their wars, and who became the first Duque de Carmona, owner of
many estates and many palaces.

My landlord had not been misinformed. The fine entrance, with its fifteenth century Spanish
coat of arms over the Moorish portal, was kept by two civil guards. I walked up, and with the
air of a tourist, inquired how soon the palace would be open to visitors. The men could not
tell me. Was the Duke ill? They believed so. And as I could get nothing further from them I
walked away.

Above, on the hill, clustered the red towers of the Alhambra. I fancied that in those towers
there must be windows which overlooked the patio of Boabdil’s old palace, and I resolved to
prove this presently, but I was not yet ready to leave the Albaicín.

I had brought down my Kodak as an excuse for lingering, and now I began, within sight of Carmona’s
doors, to take leisurely snapshots. When I had been thus engaged for nearly half an hour, I
saw a young woman, evidently a servant, leaving the palace with a small bundle under her arm;
and without appearing to notice her, I strolled in the direction she was taking. Once beyond
eyeshot of the civil guards, I spoke to the girl, taking off my hat politely.

“You are from the Duke of Carmona’s?” I said. “I am an acquaintance of his, and intended to
call, but I hear he is seeing no one.”

“That is true, señor,” replied the girl, a handsome creature of the gypsy type, with bold eyes
which took in every detail of my features and clothing. “His Grace arrived very fatigued and
is obliged to lie in bed; which is inconvenient, as there are foreign guests who must be so
constantly entertained by Her Grace the Duchess, that she has no time to nurse her son.”

“I trust he has a clever doctor,” said I.

“Oh, a very clever one,” the girl answered eagerly. “Not an ordinary physician, but a wonderful
person. My brother knows him well, and goes into the Sierra to find herbs and flowers for his
medicines and balsams.”

Evidently the girl was proud of the acquaintance, and I humoured her.

“Such remedies are good in cases of fever and malaria,” I said.

“And for many other things,” she persisted. “His Grace has contracted some poisoning of the
hand. I do not know how; but he is better already, and will no doubt soon be well. If the señor
would care to send a line of sympathy, I might arrange for it to reach the Duke. At present
not even the most intimate friends are admitted, but I am in the confidence of Her Grace’s
maid, who came with her from Seville. Indeed I’m now on the way to do an errand for her.”

I caught at this opening.

“I should like to send a note,” I said, “but not to the Duke.”

Having got so far, I took a roll of bank-notes from my pocket, as we strolled slowly on together.
A young woman so anxious to convey an impression of her own importance, must have ambitions
beyond her place in life.

The dark face sparkled at sight of the money, and tactfully I explained that my principal interest
centred in a young guest of the Duchess’s. Any person who could take word from me to her, unknown
to others, would be well rewarded. I should not think five hundred pesetas too much, to give
for such a service.

A hint was enough. In an instant the girl became a woman of business and a mistress of intrigue.
She would not, she said, dare attempt to deliver a note. It would be simpler, less dangerous
for all concerned, to be at work in a corridor through which the English señorita must pass;
to murmur a few words which would attract her attention; to receive a verbal message in return;
and to bring it to me when she could—not to-day; that would be impossible; but to-morrow evening
about nine, at which time she had already permission to go out.

Should I trust her? Her face was one to inspire a man’s admiration rather than trust, but I
had no alternative. If I surrendered this chance, I should hardly find another as promising;
and as I must depend upon someone in Carmona’s house, why not upon this woman? The bribe I
offered was tempting enough to keep her true, if anything could.

I hesitated no more than a moment in accepting her amendment of my proposal, since she assured
me it was impossible to make an appointment sooner. And the message I sent Monica was cautiously
worded.

The friends who had seen her last in the cathedral of Seville were anxious to see her again,
and begged that she would arrange to meet them as soon as possible, to carry out the plan which
had been interrupted.

The girl repeated these words after me, promised to remember them and give me the answer to-morrow
night at nine, in case any message were entrusted to her. We were not to meet at the same place,
however, but on the Alhambra Hill, in the road leading up from the “Wasinton” (as she called
the hotel) to the Carmen de Mata Moros. She had a brother living not far from there, she said,
whom she expected to visit the following evening. I offered half the money in advance as an
incentive to loyalty, and it was accepted with dignity. Then, when we were parting, I asked
if one could see into the palace patio from the Alhambra, which towered above us on the height.

“From the middle window of the Sala de Ambajadores the señor will find himself able to see
very well,” she answered. “And there is still another patio, into which there is a better view
from the gardens of the Generalife. Certainly the gardens are very high and far; but if the
señor has a spy-glass of some sort? And if he chooses I can try to tell the young lady that
he will be first in one place, then in the other, hoping for a sight of her. Let us say, in
the afternoon between four and six at the Alhambra; after that, at the Generalife, till the
sun is gone.”

This neat plan was worth an extra twenty-five peseta note, and I gave it. Afterwards, having
no other personal affairs to distract my attention, I wandered through the streets of Granada
and into the chill cathedral before going up to make acquaintance with the Carmen de Mata Moros.

When I had seen the villa, with its enchanting terraced garden, hanging on the hillside high
above the Vega, a wild hope blazed within me that I might snatch Monica, persuade the English
Consul to marry us, and keep her here for the honeymoon, flaunting my happiness in Carmona’s
face. Of course the idea was fantastic, but it gave me a few moments of happiness.

I lunched in the garden under the thick shade of nisperos trees, and before the time agreed
upon I started to walk to the Alhambra.

Not for worlds would I have taken a guide to show the way. All my life, since the days when
my mother told me legends of treasure hidden and Moorish warriors enchanted, the Alhambra had
been a fairy dream to me. There was no one in the world, save only Monica, whose company I
would have craved for this expedition. Other people’s thoughts and impressions of the place
might be better than mine, but I did not want to hear them; I wanted only my own.

Under the huge leaning elms, which people who trust guide-books attribute to Wellington, I
wandered until I came to a great red tower, with a horseshoe arch for entrance. There on the
keystone was the carved hand; beyond, over the arch within, the key; and remembering the legend
that never would disaster come until the Hand had grasped the Key, I knew that this must be
the Gate of Justice.

Now, a spell fell upon me. It was as if the Hand had come down to touch me on the shoulder,
and give the Key to hidden wonders, which only I might be allowed to see. That was the fiction
with which I pleased myself; for he who comes to the most famous of places is as truly a discoverer
as he who finds a new world. No matter how much he has read, how many faithful photographs
seen, he must discover everything anew, since it is certain that nowhere will he find anything
more than he has within himself. The picture he sees will fit the frame his mind can give,
and no one ever has, no one ever will, see there exactly what he sees. If a man’s mind cannot
create a beautiful frame, then the picture must have but a poor effect for him, and he will
go away belittling it.

Now, I believed that I had been making a fine jewelled frame for this picture of the Alhambra,
and I hoped that I deserved the Key which the Hand had lent.

Inside the gateway, when I had climbed a winding lane, I found myself in the great Place of
the Cisterns, which, with the vast incongruous palace half finished by Charles the Fifth, I
recognized from many pictures; but not yet would I look down over Granada and the Vega. I would
wait until I could stand at a window in the Hall of the Ambassadors and see what I had been
promised. So, without a glance over the parapet, I walked on to an open door, where stood two
or three men in gold-laced hats. One moved resignedly forward to act as guide, but a word and
a piece of silver convinced him that I was a person who might be trusted alone, though I lacked
a student’s ticket.

I passed through the room devoted to officialdom, and then—the time had come to use the key,
for I was already in fairyland; the covers of the “Arabian Nights” had closed on me, and shut
me in between the pages.

Physically I was not alone; for there were faded and strident tourists in the marble-paved
court of the Alberca, whom I fain would have had stopped outside and put into appropriate costume
for fairyland; but spiritually I had the place to myself.

The little glittering fish, like tropical flowers under green glass, flashed towards me through
the beryl water, just as ancestor fish had flashed when jewelled hands of harem beauties crumbled
cake into the gleaming tank. My mother had told me a legend, that fair favourites of banished
sultans prayed to return after death to the Alhambra, in the bronze and gold, rose and purple
forms of these fish of the Alberca; and now I half believed the story. Where—since Mahomet
grants no heaven to women—could they be happier than here? Floating ever under their roof of
emerald, did they think themselves more fortunate than their husbands, lovers, and brothers
permitted to rest within the Alhambra walls in the guise of martens wailing shrilly for days
that might not come again?

Dreaming, I passed into the Court of Lions, where I and the twelve quaint, stone guardians
of the place stared at one another across a few feet of marble pavement that measured centuries.
Each prim beast, beautiful because of his crude hideousness differing from his fellows; each
with a different story to tell if he would. Which one remembered that night when the brave
Abencerrages faced death, there in the hall to the right, where the fountain kept ominous stains
of brown? Which had the seeing eye in these fallen times, to watch when the ghost of those
noble Moors passed by silent and sad in the moonlight? Upon which had blood-drops spattered
when the boy princes died for jealous Fatima’s pleasure? Which had known the touch of Morayma’s
little hand or lovely Galiana’s?

I asked the questions; yet the deep answering silence of the court, and of all this hidden,
secret, fairy palace seemed to say so much that it was not like silence, but reserve.

“The Alhambra is music and colour and knowledge,” I said to the lions. “When I am gone I shall
shut my eyes and hear as well as see it; hear the magic music of the silence, played on silver
lutes of Moors, and tinkling fountains, a siren’s song to draw me back again; and I shall know
and feel things which I’ve never been able to think out quite clearly before.”

Would Monica come here? I wondered. No face more lovely than hers had ever looked down from
those latticed windows supported by pillars delicate as a child’s white arm. If I could but
see her face now! Not seeing it, I knew that no place, however beautiful, could be perfect
for me. Shadows of sorrow, of separation, would stand out the blacker against the sunlit, jewelled
walls of the fairy palace; and even happiness must sing in minor notes here, lest it strike
out a discord in the tragic poem of the Alhambra. No wonder, in losing their crown jewel, the
Moors lost hope, and with it all the art and science which had set them far above their Christian
rivals! No wonder they plunged, despairing, into the deserts they had left, mingling among
savage races as some bright spring mingles with a dark subterranean river, never to glitter
in the light again.

But none of my day dreams cheated me into losing count of time.

If my messenger were true, soon Monica would be in one of the patios of Carmona’s palace, looking
up at the Alhambra towers. “The middle window as you go into the Hall of the Ambassadors,”
I repeated, and found my way back through the court of the Alberca; for you do not need to
know the Alhambra to find your way from sala to sala, seen a hundred times in imagination.

So beautiful had I guessed that room above all others, that I had not expected to be surprised;
yet I was surprised, and oddly excited, for supreme beauty is always exciting to the Latin
mind. A vast bower of jewels, and old point-lace embroidered with tarnished gold threads and
yellowing pearls, it seemed; its portals lace-curtained too; rich hanging folds of lace and
fringe, like the lifted drapery of a sultan’s tent, supported on delicate poles of polished ivory.

Behind me was the beryl block of the fish-pond, set in silver instead of marble by the sunshine
in the court. Before me, across the pink-jewelled dusk of the Sala de los Ambajadores, a blue
and green picture of sky and mountains was framed by lace and precious stones.

I walked to the middle window and looked sheer down over tall tree-tops to the valley of the
Darro, where the roofs of the Albaicín clustered together, softly grey and glistening as the
ruffled plumage of nestling birds.

Far away to the left lay the Vega, shimmering under a mist of heat, which gave the look of
a crystal sea engulfing the plain, trees and scattered villages gleaming through the transparent
flood. Straight before my eyes, on the cactus-clothed shoulder of a hill opposite the tower,
glittered a splash of whitewash dotted with black holes, which were the doors and windows of
gypsy caverns. And above me, to the right on a higher hillside, rose the towers and miradores
of that ancient “summer palace of delights,” the Generalife.

One sweeping glance gave me these details; then, adjusting the field-glass I had brought, I
fixed my attention on a house near the Albaicín, which I easily identified as Carmona’s palace.

Gazing down from such a height, I had a bird’s-eye view of double patios thick with clustering
shrubs, orange trees, and cypresses. The powerful glasses brought out clearly the delicate
marble pillars supporting the Moorish archways of the upper gallery in one of these patios;
but the other was shrouded for me by a group of cypresses.

For a long time I waited—hours it seemed; but no one moved along the gallery or appeared in
the half-shuttered windows that looked down into the court; and at last I decided to try the
gardens of the Generalife, which I had been told commanded the second patio.

Once, said legend, a prince had been secluded by his father in those gardens and those towers,
lest he see the face of a woman, and learn sorrow through love; nevertheless, he had found
out the great secret, and had had news of the most beautiful lady in the world. I hoped, as
I walked along the avenue of cypresses, that I might be as fortunate; and in the gardens all
things spoke of love. There, under the giant cypress, the handsome Abencerrage had come to
keep the tryst which cost his head, and thirty-five others as noble. There, at the top of that
shaded flight of stone steps, whose balustrades were jewelled with running water, Prince Ahmed
had sat to play his lute. From that arcaded balcony Zorayda had looked when love was young,
and Boabdil still the lover. In the mirrors of the water-patio Galiana had bent to her own
image and asked, “Am I worthy to be loved?”

Out of the tangle of red and white roses, bunched in with golden oranges and scented blooms
mingling together in one huge bouquet, I looked to find my love. It was true, I could see clearly
now into the cypress patio; and suddenly a white figure came out from a window upon the gallery.
The glass at my eye, I thought I recognized Monica’s slender girlishness; but a moment later
a larger form appeared. The two women stood together looking up, Lady Vale-Avon pointing towards
the towers of the Alhambra or the Generalife.

Was it possible she saw me? Yet no, she could not without glasses. But if Monica had indeed
been told where I would be at a certain time, could she not have contrived some means to elude
her mother and come to the balcony alone?

Long after the two vanished I lingered; waited until sunset; waited until the sky was flooded
with rose and gold, and towers and hills were purple in a violet mist. But Monica did not come
again.

If she had not been given the message, what guarantee had I that she would receive the other
far more important?

It was in a fever of uncertainty that I must spend the next four-and-twenty hours.

                                  XXXVII

DREAMS AND AN AWAKENING

That night, in my villa above “the road of the great Moor-killing,” the nightingales were the
only serenos. Their song was the song of the stars; and the song of the stars was the song
of the nightingales. At dawn, from my window, I was taken into the private life of my neighbour
birds. I heard them wake each other; I saw them make their toilets; and from the town far below
my terraced garden the sound of bells came up—church bells, bells of mules and horses beginning
work, while their masters sang coplas with a lilting Moorish wail.

Once again I went down to look at Carmona’s door, to find it still kept by guardia civile;
and most of the day I spent in the Alhambra, seeing rooms and courts I had missed yesterday,
looking down often into the patio of the palace in the Albaicín.

I dined in the hotel garden, and before nine I was at the appointed spot in the road outside
the high wall of my Carmen. The moments passed as I walked up and down, my cigarette a spot
of fire in the growing moonlight; still the gypsy-faced girl did not come.

Twenty minutes late, said my watch, and as I stared at it, a man stopped in front of me.

“Is the noble señor expecting someone?” he asked.

I put my watch away and looked at him. The moon, obscured though it was by clouds, showed a
tall figure, with strong shoulders, and a face which seemed in the night as dark as a Moor’s.
The man had lifted his hat from his thick black hair, and I said to myself that he was a model
for an artist who wished to paint a gypsy.

Finding that I did not answer on the instant, he went on—

“The señor must forgive me if I have made a mistake; but my sister, who had an errand to do
for a gentleman, has sent me in her place.”

“In that case you have made no mistake,” I said. “You have a message for me from your sister?”

“And from a lady. The message is, that if the señor will come to my house in an hour, he will
find what he seeks.”

My blood quickened.

“What do I seek?”

“A lady who loves you, and has sent you this through my sister.”

The man produced a tiny white paper packet which I took, but would not open in his presence.

“Do you mean that the lady will, meet me at your house—to-night?” I asked.

“She hopes it, for there is no other place or way. My sister will bring the lady; but it is
not a house, in your way of speaking, señor. It is a cave in the hillside which I have made
my home, for I am a gitano.”

“You live above the Albaicín, in the gypsy quarter, then?” I said.

“No, señor, nearer here than that. You must have seen, if you have walked about the neighbourhood,
that there are many other caves which honeycomb the hillsides. To find mine you must go towards
the cemetery, take the first turn to the right, follow the winding road which descends, then
up a rough path, and stop at the first of the three gypsy caves. I must not wait for you, as
I have to see that my sister and the lady arrive safely. But you cannot miss the place; and
if I am not waiting at the door, open it without knocking and walk in. Is that understood, señor?”

“Yes,” I said.

“Then I will go to watch for my sister near the palace. At half-past ten, señor.”

“At half-past ten.” I echoed his words, and watched him out of sight as he tramped away in
the direction which would take him to the Albaicín. Then I hurried back to the villa and opened
the packet. It contained the shield-shaped Toledo brooch by the gift of which I had infuriated
Carmona; that, and nothing besides. But—unless it had been stolen from her—it was an assurance
that she had sent the messenger, that she wished me to trust him.

Nevertheless, there was danger that I might fall into a trap in keeping a night tryst at the
cave of a gypsy, especially a gypsy who had either deserted or been banished from the colony.
But not to run this risk was to run a far greater one, that of losing the chance offered by
Monica; and of such an alternative I could not even think.

If I told the man, Pepe, who looked after my wants at the villa where I intended to go, I might
succeed in compromising Monica, in case she were so late that Pepe was alarmed. As her name
must be kept out of the affair at any cost, I decided that due caution would be protection
enough. Unless the news of my presence in Granada had reached Carmona in his bed, there was
little fear of treachery; and when I slipped into my hip pocket the revolver bought in Madrid,
I felt that I was safe.

It was a dark and lonely road, that way of the dead. Not a soul had I met when I reached a
narrow path, a mere goat track, leading higher up the hillside to a row of four or five tiny
lighted windows in the rock. These must, I knew, mark the cave dwellings of which the gypsy
had spoken, some little offshoot from the main settlement by the Albaicín. The door which I
reached first was closed. No one stood waiting, but I opened it and went in.

A faint light, cast by a small paraffin lamp set in a niche hollowed out of the whitewashed
rock, made darkness visible in a tiny room with a rough earthen floor. A red calico curtain
at the far end signified a second cave-room beyond. No one was visible, no one answered when
I spoke, and I sat down to wait on a dilapidated rush-bottomed chair which stood with its back
to the red curtain.

After that, nothing.

And then, dreams.

There was one dream about a room, a large room it seemed to be, shadowy in the corners, and
with walls where Christian and Moorish warriors fought in tapestry, leaping off sometimes on
their stallions, and spurring back into place again.

In the room was a great bed with dark silk curtains. A man lay in it, but suddenly sat up,
and looked eagerly at something which seemed to be myself, dead or dying. But I did not care.
I knew who he was, and that we hated each other for some reason which I could not remember,
but it was impossible to recall his name. That was twisted up in a thousand skeins of silk;
or was it a woman’s yellow hair?

The man exclaimed, “Good—very good,” more than once to someone I could not see. Then he said,
when the someone else had spoken, “Only keep him till after I’m married. I don’t care what
you do with him after that. Fling him into a well, or let him go. Either way he can never find
out or prove anything troublesome.”

This was all of that part of the dream, though there was another which came soon after, and
was somehow connected with it. It was a dream about a long dark passage, which smelled like
a cellar, and I was being dragged through it by two voices, a thing which did not appear at
all out of the ordinary, though it was disagreeable.

After that, concrete thoughts were lost in one tremendous throbbing ache, which was in the
back of my head at first, but spread slowly down the spine, until at last my whole body felt
as if it had been pounded with giant hammers.

I had an idea at one time that I had fallen into the power of the Inquisition, and been tortured
by the head screw and the rack, because often a man in a black capucha flitted about me; but
later I realized that my suffering was caused by becoming conscious of the world’s motion—a
terrible, ceaseless whirling, which, being once felt, could be escaped only in death.

This was appalling. I lived through many years of the horror, but I fell off the world at last
on to another planet, where there came a period of peace.

When I waked up I was looking at my hands.

To my great surprise they were no longer brown and strong as a young man’s hands ought to be,
but of a sickly white, and so thin that I found myself laughing at them in a slow, soft way,
as one laughs in one’s sleep.

At first it did not seem to matter that I should have hands like that; but suddenly, with a
rush of blood to the heart, I realized that it was unnatural, dreadful, that something hideous
must have happened to me.

In a moment my head was clear, and I felt as if a tight band had been taken off my forehead.

Yes, something had happened, but what?

I looked round and saw a room unfamiliar, yet already hated. It was a small, but beautiful
room, the walls covered with Moorish work, such as I had seen at the Alhambra. I lay on a divan-bed,
in an alcove without windows; but in the room beyond, I saw one with a dainty filigree frame,
supported by a marble pillar. There was also an archway, from which a curtain was pushed aside,
and I could see the end of a marble bath.

How had I come to this place? Where was it, and how long had I been there? were the next questions
I asked myself.

There was no more dreaming now. The room was real; and the whiteness and emaciation of my hands
were real. A man must have been very ill, and for a long time, to have hands as white and thin
as that.

Suddenly I sat up, crying aloud, “Monica!”

The sound of her name brought her image before me. What horrible thing had been done to me
that I should have forgotten her very existence?

Strength failed, and I fell back, a dampness coming out on my forehead. Above all, what had
been done to her? “Don’t leave me alone,” she had begged; yet I had deserted her. I was—here.

The motoring days came back to me; happy, hopeful days in the open air. How long ago were they
that I should be thus broken, that I should feel like a man grown old?

Slowly, and cold as the trail of a snake, a thought crawled into my mind.

I remembered a short story I had read once. It was by Gertrude Atherton, and at the time I
had thought it the most harrowing story ever written. A woman had gone to sleep, young, beautiful,
beloved. She had waked to find her hair grey, her hands old and veined. Twenty blank years
of madness she had spent in a lunatic asylum, after being driven mad by a shock, waking to
sanity at last only to find herself an old woman.

Had I been mad? Was I old now, with my wasted white hands?

Tingling with dread I touched my face. My chin was rough with a stubble of beard. I fancied
there were hollows in my cheeks. Was my hair grey?

Somewhere there must be a mirror. I tried to struggle up and find it, that I might see my own
image and know the worst; but a giddiness came over me, and I had to lie down again, or I knew
that I should faint.

“I have Carmona to thank for this,” I said aloud, furiously. But then I asked myself, how did
I know that there ever had been a Carmona, that there ever had been a girl called Monica Vale?
Perhaps I had dreamed them both, in the time of madness.

There had been many dreams. Suddenly I remembered a man’s voice saying: “Only keep him till
after I’m married.” The voice had been Carmona’s. I knew that now.

No, I had never been mad. A horrible trick had been played on me—in the gypsy’s cave. I remembered
that. Everything was blank since, except for the dreams. Perhaps some of them had been true.
Perhaps, half-unconscious—(for somebody must have come out from behind that red curtain and
struck me on the head)—I had been taken to him, that he might be sure it was the right man.
Somebody had been ordered to keep me, until after—Again I sat up, with a groan. I must get
out of this. I must save Monica from the man, and from her own mother. But—if it was already
too late?

There was a sound in the room. From a door I could not see, someone had come in. A key had
turned, and was being turned again. The dream of the Inquisition came back to my mind, for
the man in the black capucha stood looking at me.

“Who are you?” I asked. Although for many years I had spoken English, and Spanish only for
a few weeks, it was mechanically that I used Spanish now.

“Your good friend,” came from under the capucha, while there was a glitter of eyes through
the two slanting slits in the black silk.

“If you’re my friend, you’ll let me out of this place, wherever it is,” I said.

“But I am your doctor as well, and you are too weak to go out. This is the first time you have
spoken sensible words, and now they are not wise.”

“I’m not too weak to hear how I came here, how long I have been, and—” He cut me short, with
a wave of a yellow old hand. Under the capucha he wore an ordinary black coat, such as elderly
Spaniards of the middle class wear every day.

“You must not excite yourself,” he said. “As for your coming here, I found you lying in the
road one dark night, with your head cut open, and out of compassion I brought you into my house.”

“If you are a doctor, and have no reason to hide your face from me, why do you cover it up
with a capucha?” I went on incredulously.

“It is the capucha of the cofradìa to which I belong,” explained the man. “I wear it at certain
hours because of a vow which will not expire till Corpus Christi. If I were a wicked person,
who wished you harm, why need I trouble to hide my face so that you should not know it again?
I live alone in this house, and if I wished you evil, I need never let you leave these rooms.
But instead, I have taken care of you, and you have repaid some experiments I have made, for
now I think you are getting well. You have only to be patient.”

“Tell me how long since you played good Samaritan and picked me up by the roadside,” said I.
“Then perhaps I shall try to be patient.”

“How long?” he echoed. “I can’t tell you that. To a philosopher like me days and weeks are
much the same.”

“Philosophers have often been in the pay of dukes,” I said.

“Those days have passed. I live my life without dukes.”

“Without the Duke of Carmona?”

“The Duke of Carmona? That is a mere name to me. Why do you speak it?”

“I think you can guess.”

“I fear that after all your brain is not clear. We must have a little more of the good medicine.”

Before I knew what he meant to do, he was out of the alcove, and out of sight in the room beyond.
Again I tried my strength, and would have followed, but before I could do more than struggle
up from the bed, the door had been unlocked, and locked again.

“He must keep the key in his pocket,” I thought.

I did not believe a word of the plausible explanations. The continued mental effort I had been
making had cleared, rather than tired my brain; and I was out of that black sea of horror in
which I had been drowning.

I had not been mad, and I could not have been in this house for many weeks, since the man in
the capucha talked of Corpus Christi as still in the future.

I remembered Colonel O’Donnel’s telegram, and his mention of a man in Granada whom Carmona
valued above many doctors. It seemed not impossible that this person and my “good friend” were
one and the same; but if—weak as I was now—I hoped to get out of his house alive, perhaps I
had better change my tactics, and keep my suspicions to myself, until I should recover strength.
If the man believed that he had convinced me of his innocence and kindly intentions, he would
perhaps think it easier to let me live than to put me violently out of the way.

I made up my mind to cultivate a more reasonable spirit, until my body might help me defend
other convictions. And one thing gave me courage to keep the resolution. The fact that my host
was not willing yet to discharge me as cured, argued that there was still a strong motive for
detaining me behind locked doors. The time of which Carmona had spoken in my dream had not
come. He was not married yet, and I said to myself that he never would be, if it depended on
Monica’s consent to be his wife.

Since that hour in the cathedral of Seville nothing would make her believe me disloyal, I thought;
therefore nothing could make her disloyal to me.

Knowing little of illness, I trusted that, after all, I had not been put away here for long.
Maybe a few days of fever and delirium would waste the hands and bleach out the brown stain
of sunburn. At the moment, though I was young, and had been strong, I would have no chance
against even an old man; but if I ate, and could crawl up to take a little exercise, a day
or two ought to make a vast difference.

I was still of this mind when the capucha came back. So softly did he unlock the door that
I did not hear him, but he was not as stealthy about locking it again. He had brought me a
glass of milk; and when I had drunk it he asked me to get up, and let him judge of my strength.

Weak as I was, I felt that I could have risen, but I determined to fight him with his own weapons.
Making a faint effort, I fell back on the pillows, and closed my eyes.

“It will take many more glasses of milk before you need again ask ‘But when do I leave you?’
” said the voice through the capucha.

I agreed, and pleased myself with my strategy after the man had gone out, until to my alarm
I was overcome with sleep.

He had put something into the milk.

                                 XXXVIII

THE FOUNTAIN

The delicate fretwork of the walls was blurred in twilight when I waked from heavy, irresistible
sleep.

I felt dull, but could trace no other bad effect from the drug. Indeed, I fancied that I was
stronger; and very slowly, with occasional rests, I got upon my feet and began to crawl about
the room.

There was very little furniture, but what there was, was good, and of a graceful Moorish design
which suited the wall decoration, and the horseshoe shape of the window. This had an elaborate
lattice of wood, which let in plenty of air, as there was no glass; but outside were six stout
bars of iron, and the lattice was securely fastened. I stared through the pattern of wood into
a very small but charming patio, paved with brick and tiles, and having in the centre a fountain,
with a shallow basin. Feathery plumes of water played over a few low palms in great blue and
white pots of Triana ware, but as I looked the plumes shrank almost to nothing, then ceased
to wave. The fountain was asleep for the night.

Supporting myself with a hand on the wall, I got to the room of the marble bath. There, the
window was but a foot square, and was set high in the wall. On a low, carved bench, lay the
clothing I had worn on the night of my visit to the gypsy’s cave. I sat down, and explored
the pockets. What money I had had—six or seven hundred pesetas, so far as I could remember—was
gone; so was my gold watch, and the revolver I had so gaily carried as a sure means of self-protection.

“Gypsy perquisites,” I said to myself, but the sight of the clothes brought back the past so
vividly that I could see myself bidding good-bye to Dick at the railway station. Loyal, resourceful
old Dick! Why had he not found his friend in all this time, while my hands were growing white
and thin?

Surely there must have been some hue or cry, when I did not appear either at the villa or the
hotel? A man cannot vanish off the face of the earth, I told myself, and leave no trace. I
longed for the man with the capucha to come back, so that I could ask him more questions, even
though I could put no faith in his answers; but he did not appear again that night. I slept
after a time, a sleep of exhaustion; and when I waked in broad daylight, I found a glass of
milk on a small Moorish stand by the bed.

I could not bear to drink it, lest the same drug should make me sleep as before. But how regain
strength without food? And evidently I was to have this or none.

