"Paddington handed over a quarter and left the shop without another word. He went directly
to a cheap restaurant across the street, and, ordering a cup of coffee, he tore open the cigarette
box. It contained only a sheet of paper, folded twice. I was at the next table, too far away
to read what was written upon it, but whatever it was, it seemed to give him immense satisfaction.
He finished his coffee, returned to his rooms, changed his clothes, and went directly to the
office of Snedecker, the man whose divorce case he is trying to trump up. Evidently he's good
for a day's work on that, so I thought I could safely leave him at it, and report to you."

"Humph! I'd like to have a glimpse of that communication in the cigarette box, but it isn't
of sufficient importance, on the face of it, to show our hand by having him waylaid, or searching
his rooms," Blaine cogitated aloud. "I'll put another man on to-morrow morning. Leave the address
of the tobacconist with my secretary on your way out, and if there is another message to-morrow,
he'll get it first. You needn't do anything more on this Paddington matter; I think the other
end needs your services more; and since you've already broken ground up there, you'll be able
to do better than anyone else. I want you to return to the Bronx, get back your old room, if
you can, and stick close to the Brunells."

Back in his old rooms at Mrs. Quinlan's, Guy sat in the window-seat at dusk, impatiently awaiting
the appearance of a slender, well-known figure. The rain, which had set in early in the afternoon,
had turned to sleet, and as the darkness deepened, the rays from a solitary street lamp gleamed
sharply upon the pavement as upon an unbroken sheet of ice.

Presently the spare, long-limbed form of James Brunell emerged from the gloom and disappeared
within the door of this little house opposite. Morrow observed that the man's step lacked its
accustomed jauntiness and spring, and he plodded along wearily, as if utterly preoccupied with
some depressing meditation. A light sprang up in the front room on the ground floor, but after
a few moments it was suddenly extinguished, and Brunell appeared again on the porch. He closed
the door softly behind him, and strode quickly down the street. There was a marked change in
his bearing, a furtiveness and eager haste which ill accorded with his manner of a short time
before.

Scarcely had Brunell vanished into the encroaching gloom, when his daughter appeared. She,
too, approached wearily, and on reaching the little sagging gate she paused in surprised dismay
at the air of detached emptiness the house seemed to exude. Then a little furry object scurried
around the porch corner and precipitated itself upon her. She stooped swiftly, gathered up
the kitten in her arms and went slowly into the house.

Morrow ate his supper in absent-minded haste, and as soon as he decently could, he made his
way across the street.

Emily opened the door in response to his ring and greeted him with such undisguised pleasure
and surprise that his honest heart quickened a beat or two, and it was with difficulty that
he voiced the plausible falsehood concerning his loss of position, and return to his former abode.

Under the light in the little drawing-room, he noticed that she looked pale and careworn, and
her limpid, childlike eyes were veiled pathetically with deep, blue shadows. As he looked at
her, however, a warm tint dyed her cheeks and her head drooped, while the little smile still
lingered about her lips.

"You are tired?" he found himself asking solicitously, after she had expressed her sympathy
for his supposed ill fortune. "You found your work difficult to-day at the club?"

"Oh, no,"--she shook her head slowly. "My position is a mere sinecure, thanks to Miss Lawton's
wonderful consideration. I have been a little depressed--a little worried, that is all."

"Worried?" Morrow paused, then added in a lower tone, the words coming swiftly, "Can't you
tell me, Emily? Isn't there some way in which I can help you? What is it that is troubling you?"

"I--I don't know." A deeper, painful flush spread for a moment over her face, then ebbed, leaving
her paler even than before. "You are very kind, Mr. Morrow, but I do not think that I should
speak of it to anyone. And indeed, my fears are so intangible, so vague, that when I try to
formulate my thoughts into words, even to myself, they are unconvincing, almost meaningless.
Yet I feel instinctively that something is wrong."

"Won't you trust me?" Morrow's hand closed gently but firmly over the girl's slender one, in
a clasp of compelling sympathy, and unconsciously she responded to it. "I know that I am comparatively
a new friend. You and your father have been kind enough to extend your hospitality to me, to
accept me as a friend. You know very little about me, yet I want you to believe that I am worthy
of trust--that I want to help you. I do, Emily, more than you realize, more than I can express
to you now!"

Morrow had forgotten the reason for his presence there, forgotten his profession, his avowed
purpose, everything but the girl beside him. But her next words brought him swiftly back to
a realization of the present--so swiftly that for a moment he felt as if stunned by an unexpected
blow.

"Oh, I do believe that you are a friend! I do trust you!" Emily's voice thrilled with deep
sincerity, and in an impetuous outburst of confidence she added: "It is about my father that
I am troubled. Something has happened which I do not understand; there is something he is keeping
from me, which has changed him. He seems like a different man, a stranger!"

"You are sure of it?" Morrow asked, slowly. "You are sure that it isn't just a nervous fancy?
Your father really has changed toward you lately?"

"Not only toward me, but to all the world beside!" she responded. "Now that I look back, I
can see that his present state of mind has been coming on gradually for several months, but
it was only a short time ago that something occurred which seemed to bring the matter, whatever
it is, to a turning-point. I remember that it was just a few days before you came--I mean,
before I happened to see you over at Mrs. Quinlan's."

She stopped abruptly, as if an arresting finger had been laid across her lips, and after waiting
a moment for her to continue, Morrow asked quietly:

"What was it that occurred?"

"Father received a letter. It came one afternoon when I had returned from the club earlier
than usual. I took it from the postman myself, and as father had not come home yet from the
shop, I placed it beside his plate at the supper table. I noticed the postmark--'Brooklyn'--but
it didn't make any particular impression upon me; it was only later, when I saw how it affected
my father, that I remembered, and wondered. He had scarcely opened the envelope, when he rose,
trembling so that he could hardly stand, and coming into this room, he shut the door after
him. I waited as long as I could, but he did not return, and the supper was getting cold, so
I came to the door here. It was locked! For the first time in his life, my father had locked
himself in, from me! He would not answer me at first, as I called to him, and I was nearly
frightened to death before he spoke. When he did, his voice sounded so harsh and strained that
I scarcely recognized it. He told me that he didn't want anything to eat; he had some private
business to attend to, and I was not to wait up for him, but to go to bed when I wished.

"I crept away, and went to my room at last, but I could not sleep. It was nearly morning when
Father went to bed, and his step was heavy and dragging as he passed my door. His room is next
to mine, and I heard him tossing restlessly about--and once or twice I fancied that he groaned
as if in pain. He was up in the morning at his usual time, but he looked ill and worn, as if
he had aged years in that one night. Neither of us mentioned the letter, then or at any subsequent
time, but he has never been the same man since."

"And the letter--you never saw it?" Morrow asked eagerly, his detective instinct now thoroughly
aroused. "You don't know what that envelope postmarked 'Brooklyn' contained?"

"Oh, but I do!" Emily exclaimed. "Father had thrust it in the stove, but the fire had gone
out, without his noticing it. I found it the next morning, when I raked down the ashes."

"You--read it?" Morrow carefully steadied his voice.

"No," she shook her head, with a faint smile. "That's the queer part of it all. No one could
have read it--no one who did not hold the key to it, I mean. It was written in some secret
code or cipher, with oddly shaped figures instead of letters; dots and cubes and triangles.
I never saw anything like it before. I couldn't understand why anyone should send such a funny
message to my father, instead of writing it out properly."

"What did you do with the letter--did you destroy it?" This time the detective made no effort
to control the eagerness in his tones, but the girl was so absorbed in her problem that she
was oblivious to all else.

"I suppose I should have, but I didn't. I knew that it was what my father had intended, yet
somehow I felt that it might prove useful in the future--that I might even be helping Father
by keeping it, against his own judgment. The envelope was partially scorched by the hot ashes,
but the inside sheet remained untouched. I hid the letter behind the mirror on my dresser,
and sometimes, when I have been quite alone, I took it out and tried to solve it, but I couldn't.
I never was good at puzzles when I was little, and I suppose I lack that deductive quality
now. I was ashamed, too: it seemed so like prying into things which didn't concern me, which
my father didn't wish me to know; still, I was only doing it to try to help him."

Morrow winced, and drew a long breath. Then resolutely he plunged into the task before him.

"Emily, don't think that I want to pry, either, but if I am to help you I must see that letter.
If you trust me and believe in my friendship, let me see it. Perhaps I may be able to discover
the key in the first word or two, and then you can decipher it for yourself. You understand,
I don't wish you to show it to me unless you really have confidence in me, unless you are sure
that there is nothing in it which one who has your welfare and peace of mind at heart should
not see."

He waited for her reply with a suffocating feeling as if a hand were clutching at his throat.
A hot wave of shame, of fierce repugnance and self-contempt at the rôle he was forced to play,
surged up within him, but he could not go back now. The die was cast.

She looked at him--a long, searching look, her childlike eyes dark with troubled indecision.
At length they cleared slowly and she smiled, a faint, pathetic smile, which wrung his heart.
Then she rose without a word, and left the room.

It seemed to him that an interminable period of time passed before he heard her light, returning
footsteps descending the stairs. A wild desire to flee assailed him--to efface himself before
her innocent confidence was betrayed.

Emily Brunell came straight to him, and placed the letter in his hands.

"There can be nothing in this letter which could harm my father, if all the world read it,"
she said simply. "He is good and true; he has not an enemy on earth. It can be only a private
business communication, at the most. My father's life is an open book; no discredit could come
to him. Yet if there was anything in the cryptic message written here which others, not knowing
him as I do, might misjudge, I am not afraid that you will. You see, I do believe in your friendship,
Mr. Morrow; I am proving my faith in you."

CHAPTER XII

THE CIPHER

It was a haggard, heavy-eyed young man who presented himself at Henry Blaine's office, early
the next morning, with his report. The detective made no comment upon his subordinate's changed
appearance and manner, but eyed him keenly as with dogged determination Guy Morrow told his
story through to the end.

"The letter--the cipher letter!" Blaine demanded, curtly, when the operative paused at length.
"You have it with you?"

Morrow drew a deep breath and unconsciously he squared his shoulders.

"No, sir," he responded, his voice significantly steady and controlled.

"Where is it?"

"I gave it back to her--to Miss Brunell."

"What! Then you solved it?" the detective leaned forward suddenly, the level gaze from beneath
his close-drawn brows seeming to pierce the younger man's impassivity.

"No, sir. It was a cryptogram, of course--an arrangement of cabalistic signs instead of letters,
but I could make nothing of it. The message, whatever it is, would take hours of careful study
to decipher; and even then, without the key, one might fail. I have seen nothing quite like
it, in all my experience."

"And you gave it back to her!" Blaine exclaimed, with well-simulated incredulity. "You actually
had the letter in your hands, and relinquished it? In heaven's name, why?"

"Miss Brunell had shown it to me in confidence. It was her property, and she trusted me. Since
I was unable to aid her in solving it, I returned it to her. The chances are that it is, as
she said, a matter of private business between her father and another man, and it is probably
entirely dissociated from this investigation."

"You're not paid, Morrow, to form opinions of your own, or decide the ethics, social or moral,
of a case you're put on; you're paid to obey instructions, collect data and obtain whatever
evidence there may be. Remember that. Confidence or no confidence, girl or no girl, you go
back and get that letter! I don't care what means you use, short of actual murder; that cipher's
got to be in my hands before midnight. Understand?"

"Yes, sir, I understand." Morrow rose slowly, and faced his chief. "I'm sorry, but I cannot do it."

"You can't? That's the first time I ever heard that word from your lips, Guy." Henry Blaine
shook his head sadly, affecting not to notice his operative's rising emotion.

"I mean that I won't, sir. I'm sorry to appear insubordinate, but I've got to refuse--I simply
must. I've never shirked a duty before, as I think you will admit, Mr. Blaine. I have always
carried out the missions you entrusted to me to the best of my ability, no matter what the
odds against me, and in this case I have gone ahead conscientiously up to the present moment,
but I won't proceed with it any further."

"What are you afraid of--Jimmy Brunell?" asked the detective, significantly.

The insult brought a deep flush to Morrow's cheek, but he controlled himself.

"No, sir," he responded, quietly. "I'm not going to betray the trust that girl has reposed in me."

"How about the trust another girl has placed in me--and through me, in you?" Henry Blaine rose
also, and gazed levelly into his operative's eyes. "What of Anita Lawton? Have you considered
her? I ought to dismiss you, Guy, at this moment, and I would if it were anyone else, but I
can't allow you to fly off at a tangent, and ruin your whole career. Why should you put this
girl, Emily Brunell, before everything in the world--your duty to Miss Lawton, to me, to yourself?"

"She trusted me," returned Morrow, with grim persistence.

