After celery is cut up and soaked in cold water for fifteen minutes, then cooked until tender,
it must be drained in the colander, thrown into cold water to blanch and become firm, and then
thoroughly heated in a white sauce. If the cold bath is neglected the result will be flat and
discolored instead of white and crisp.

CELERY SOUP.

The ingredients are two heads of celery, one quart of water, one quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter and a dash of pepper. Wash
and scrape celery and cut in half inch pieces, put in boiling water and cook until soft. Mash
the celery in the water in which it is boiled and add salt and pepper. Let the milk come to
a boil; cream together the butter and flour and stir the boiling milk into it slowly; then
add celery and strain through a sieve mashing and pressing with the back of a spoon until all
but the tough fibres of the celery are squeezed through. Return the soup to the fire and heat
until it is steaming when it is ready to serve.

BOILED CELERIAC.

Pare the roots and throw them into cold water for one half hour. Cut into squares, boil in
salted water until tender and serve with a butter or cream sauce.

CELERIAC SALAD.

Boil the roots in salted water, throw into cold water and peel; slice, serve on lettuce leaves
and pour over a French or mayonnaise dressing. (See Salad Dressing.)

CHERVIL SALAD.

Clean the leaves thoroughly in cold water and shake to drain. Serve with French salad dressing.
The leaves are aromatic and are used for seasoning dressings, salads, sauces and soups and
also for garnishes.

CREAM CHICORY.

Clean well and boil several heads of chicory, drain and cool; squeeze out the water from the
chicory and mince it; melt some butter in a saucepan and cook until the moisture has evaporated;
sprinkle with flour and add hot milk; boil up stirring all the time; season, and cook on back
of the stove fifteen minutes; serve with croutons or bits of toast.

FRENCH RECIPE.

CHICORY SALAD.

Wash and shake well; select the white leaves and cut in one or two inch lengths. In the salad
bowl mix the oil, salt and vinegar then add the chicory and mix vigorously with a wooden fork
and spoon; add the vinegar sparingly--1-1/2 tablespoons of vinegar to 6 of oil. A crust of
bread rubbed with garlic is usually added, but the bowl itself may be slightly rubbed with
a cut clove.

FRENCH RECIPE. Boil in water with a small piece of alum until clear and tender; then rinse
in cold water. Boil the weighed sugar in water and skim until the syrup is clear. Add the fruit,
a little ginger root or a few slices of lemon, boil five minutes and fill hot jars. Seal tightly.

CITRON PUDDING.

Cream together half a cup of butter and one cup of sugar; add the well beaten yolks of five
eggs, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, and whip until very light, then add the whites
beaten to a froth alternately with two full cups of flour, through which must be sifted two
even teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Butter a mold lavishly, line it with strips of preserved
citron, using a quarter of a pound for a pudding of this size, put in the batter, cover and
set in a pan with boiling water in a good oven. Keep the pan nearly full of boiling water and
bake steadily one and one half hours. Dip the mold in cold water, turn out upon a hot dish,
and eat at once with any kind of sweet pudding sauce. The mold must not be filled more than
two thirds full, in order to give the pudding a chance to swell.

SWEET PICKLED CITRON.

One pound of sugar and one quart of vinegar (if too strong dilute with water) to every two
pounds of citron. Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices together and skim well. Then add the citron
and cook until about half done. Use spices to suit taste.

CORN CHOWDER.

Chop fine one-quarter pound of salt pork, put in a kettle, and when well tried out add two
white onions sliced thin. Brown lightly, then add one pint of raw diced potatoes, one can of
corn, chopped fine, and sufficient boiling water to cover. When the potatoes are tender stir
in two tablespoonfuls of flour, blended with one of butter, one teaspoonful of salt and saltspoonful
of white pepper and one quart of boiling milk. Simmer five minutes longer, add one cupful of
hard crackers, broken into bits, and serve.

MISS BEDFORD.

CHICKEN WITH CORN OYSTERS.

Clean and joint a chicken, one weighing about three pounds, as for fricassee. Wipe each piece
with a damp cloth, dip in slightly beaten egg; then roll in seasoned fine bread crumbs. Arrange
in a deep dish, and bake in a very hot oven for forty-five minutes, basting every ten minutes
with melted butter. While the chicken is baking chop one cup full of cold boiled corn fine,
add to it one beaten egg, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, one tablespoonful
of milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour and one-quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder. Heat
one tablespoonful of drippings in a pan, drop the batter in in spoonfuls, and brown quickly
on both sides. Prepare a sauce with one tablespoonful of butter, blended with one of flour
and one cupful of chicken stock (made from the neck and wing tips), one-half of a cupful of
cream, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, a saltspoon of salt, one-quarter as much pepper and
the yolks of two eggs. Do not add the eggs and cream until just before it is taken from the
fire. Arrange on a warm, deep platter. Garnish with the corn oysters and sprigs of parsley.
Serve the sauce in a boat.

CHICAGO RECORD.

CREAM OF CORN.

Use one can of corn for one quart of soup. Crush it thoroughly with pestle or potato-masher
to free the pulp from the tough outside coating; rub through a fine colander, then through
a sieve. Add one teacupful of cream to the strained pulp and enough milk to make a quart altogether.
Put in a dash of cayenne pepper, a piece of butter the size of a filbert, and salt to taste--it
requires a surprising amount of salt to bring out the flavor. Use a double boiler as it burns
easily. Serve very hot stirring well before taking up.

MRS. THOMPSON.

GREEN CORN FRITTERS.

Cut the corn from three good sized ears and chop it slightly. Add one well beaten egg, one-half
cup of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful
of pepper, and flour enough to make a thin batter. Put one teaspoonful of baking powder in
the flour, fry to a golden brown in boiling fat.

CORN OMELET.

Take cold boiled corn and after cutting the grains through the middle, scrape it from the cob.
Make a plain omelet, and have the corn with very little milk heating in a saucepan, seasoning
to taste. When the omelet is ready to turn, put the corn by spoonfuls over half the top, and
fold the omelet over. Serve at once.

GREEN CORN PUDDING.

Take one dozen ears of tender corn; grate them; then add one quart of sweet milk thickened
with three tablespoonfuls of flour made free from lumps, a full tablespoonful of butter, four
eggs, and pepper and salt to taste. Butter an earthen baking dish and pour into it this mixture.
Bake one and one-half hours. This is to be served as a vegetable, though with the addition
of sugar and a rich sauce it can be used as a dessert.

CORN SOUP.

Take three ears of corn, remove the corn from the cob and boil the cobs in three pints of soup
stock or water very slowly one half hour. Remove the cobs, put in the corn and boil twenty
minutes, then rub the corn through a sieve and add salt and pepper to taste. Boil up again
and stir into the soup a tablespoonful of flour and butter mixed. When it thickens add one
cupful of boiling milk. Let this new mixture come to a boil, add one well beaten egg and serve.

CORN VINEGAR.

Add to one gallon of rain water one pint of brown sugar or molasses and one pint of corn off
the cob. Put into a jar, cover with a cloth, set in the sun, and in three weeks you will have
good vinegar. Most people prefer it to cider vinegar.

CORN SALAD.

Corn salad makes a most refreshing salad in winter and spring as a substitute for lettuce.
Serve with French dressing. It is also used as greens and is cooked like spinach.

CRESS.

Water cress has a pleasant and highly pungent flavor that makes it valuable as a salad or garniture.
Tear water cress apart with the fingers and put them loosely in a bowl to clean; use cold water;
break off the roots, do not use a knife; dress with salt, vinegar, and a little powdered sugar.
Some send them to the table without any dressing and eat them with a little salt.

CUCUMBER AND CRESS SALAD.

Pare two cucumbers and cut them into quarters, lengthwise, then into half-inch pieces. Pick
over, wash and drain a pint of fresh cress, and dry in a cloth. Add the cucumbers; mix and
turn into the salad-bowl and pour over a French dressing, made by mixing together four tablespoonfuls
of olive oil, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper, then dropping
in, while stirring quickly, one tablespoonful of tarragon or plain vinegar, or lemon juice.

CHICAGO RECORD.

WATER CRESS SOUP.

Look over carefully one large bunch of water cress and chop it fine. Melt one large tablespoonful
of butter in a granite stew-pan, add the cress and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cook about
ten minutes, until the cress is tender. Do not let it burn. Add one egg, well beaten, with
one heaping teaspoonful of flour, also one saltspoonful of salt and two dashes of pepper. Then
pour in three pints of well-flavored soup stock. Let boil five minutes longer and serve with
croutons.

CHICAGO RECORD.

WATERCRESS AND WALNUT SALAD.

Crack fifty walnuts and remove the meats as nearly as possible in unbroken halves. Squeeze
over them the juice of two large lemons, or three small ones, and leave them for several hours,
or a day if convenient. Just before dinner pick over in a cool place one quart of watercress,
wash it carefully and drain on a napkin. At the last moment drench the cress with French dressing,
spread the nuts over it, give them a generous sprinkling of the dressing and serve.

CHICAGO RECORD.

BOILED CUCUMBERS.

Peel the cucumbers unless very young and tender, put into boiling salted water, and when boiled
throw them into cold water to firm them. When ready for use, heat them in butter quickly without
frying them, season with salt and pepper, pour over any good sauce and serve. Ripe cucumbers
can be treated quite similarly unless the seeds are tough, if they are, mash the cucumbers
through a sieve and serve with butter, pepper and salt.

CUCUMBER CATSUP.

Take twelve large, full-grown cucumbers and four onions. Peel the cucumbers and take the skin
off the onions; grate them, and let the pulp drain through a sieve for several hours, then
season highly with salt and pepper, and add good cider vinegar until the pickle tastes strongly
of it, and it rises a little to the top. Put it in jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cork or
seal them so as to be airtight. The pickle tastes more like the fresh cucumber than anything
else, and will pay for the making.

FRIED CUCUMBER.

Boil a good-sized cucumber till nearly soft in milk and water flavored slightly with onion.
Remove and drain dry, cut it up into slices when cold and brush each slice, which should be
about a third of an inch thick, with egg, and dip in bread crumbs or make a batter and dip
each slice in this, after which fry in butter till amber brown. To be served in the center
of a hot dish with mashed potatoes round.

CUCUMBER MANGOES. (See Mangoes.)

CUCUMBER A LA POULETTE.

Pare and cut in slices three good-sized cucumbers; cover with water and let soak for half an
hour, then drain and dry on a cloth. Put in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter and
fry over a moderate fire without browning for five minutes. Add one scant tablespoonful of
flour, and, when well mixed, one and one-half cupfuls of chicken or veal broth. Simmer gently
for twenty minutes, season with a small teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and half
a teaspoonful of sugar; draw the pan to one side, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and one
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Take from the fire as soon as thickened, being careful
not to allow the sauce to boil again.

MARION C. WILSON.

CUCUMBER SALAD.

Peel the cucumbers, slice as thin as possible, cover with salt, let stand one hour covered,
then put in colander and let cold water run over them until all the salt is off. Make a bed
of cress or lettuce leaves and pour over French dressing; or prepare as above, pour over vinegar,
give a little dash of cayenne pepper and add sour cream. Cucumbers sliced very thin with a
mayonnaise dressing make a very excellent sandwich filling.

CUCUMBER SALAD CUPS.

Choose medium sized cucumbers, pare carefully and cut off the two ends, cut them in halves
lengthwise, take out the seeds and put the cucumbers into ice water for two hours. When ready
for use wipe the cucumbers dry, set them on a bed of lettuce leaves, asparagus leaves, cress,
parsley or any other pretty garniture, and fill the shells with lobster, salmon or shrimp salad,
asparagus, potato or vegetable salad, mix with mayonnaise before stuffing and put a little
more on top afterwards.

STUFFED CUCUMBERS.

Choose medium sized cucumbers, pare, cut off one or both ends, extract the seeds, boil from
three to five minutes, drain and throw into cold water to firm, drain again and fill the insides
with chicken or veal forcemeat; line a pan with thin slices of pork, on which set the cucumbers,
season with salt and pepper and a pinch of marjoram and summer savory, baste with melted butter,
or gravy, chicken gravy is the best, cover with a buttered paper and let bake. Or stuff with
a sausage forcemeat, make a bed for the cucumbers of chopped vegetables and moisten with stock
or water; or fill with a tomato stuffing as for stuffed tomatoes, baste often with butter,
or a nice gravy, put over a buttered paper and bake until done, in about fifteen or twenty
minutes. The Chicago Record gave the following recipe for cucumbers stuffed with rice:--Pare
thinly five five-inch cucumbers. Cut off one end and remove the pulp, leaving a thick solid
case, with one thick end. Season one cup of hot boiled rice, salted in cooking, with a tablespoonful
of butter, a "pinch" each of marjoram and summer savory, saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, four
shakes of cayenne and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Fill the cucumbers with this mixture;
replace the end, fastening it with small skewers; place in a pan of boiling water, salted,
in which are two bay leaves and a clove of garlic, and boil for ten minutes or until tender.
Drain and serve covered with a cream sauce.

DANDELIONS.

Use the dandelions in the early spring when they are young and tender. They take the place
of spinach and are treated the same. (See Spinach.) Dandelions may be used as a salad with
a French dressing.

EGG PLANT CROQUETTES.

Peel, slice and boil until tender, mash and season with pepper and salt; roll crackers or dry
bread, and stir into it until very thick. Make into croquettes or patties; fry in hot lard
or with a piece of salt pork.

ESCALLOPED EGG PLANT.

1 egg plant, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful salt, 1/3 teaspoonful pepper, 1 egg,
4 tablespoonfuls grated cheese, 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls bread
crumbs.

One good sized perfect egg plant. Let stand in cold water one hour. Do not remove skin, but
put the egg plant whole in a deep kettle of boiling water, cover, and cook thirty minutes,
or until tender. Be careful not to break the skin while cooking. Drain on large platter and
cool. Cut in half and turn cut surfaces to platter while removing skin with knife and fork.
Egg plant discolors readily, also stains easily; so, keep covered from the air when not preparing
it. Use silver knife and fork for chopping; porcelain frying pan for seasoning process and
an earthen dish for baking if you desire best results. Chop the plant moderately fine, season
with salt and pepper and simmer in two tablespoonfuls of butter over a slow fire for ten minutes,
keeping it closely covered. Add one tablespoonful of Worcestershire Sauce after taking from
the fire, and divide the mixture into two equal portions. Put the first half into a hot buttered
baking dish; sprinkle over it one half of the grated cheese and one tablespoonful of bread
crumbs. Stir one well beaten egg into the second portion; add to the first, cover with remainder
of cheese and finish with two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. Bake in moderately hot oven for
twenty minutes. Cover the dish for first five minutes, or until the bread crumbs shall have
lightly browned. Serve hot as an entree, with or without tomato sauce, according to taste.

ALICE CAREY WATERMAN.

FRIED EGG PLANT.

Select a plant not too large or old. Cut in slices one fourth of an inch thick, and lay in
weak salt water over night. In the morning remove the purple rind and wipe dry, dip in beaten
egg, then in fine bread crumbs or cracker dust; fry on the griddle or in a spider in hot butter
and drippings until a nice brown. It must cook rather slowly until thoroughly soft, otherwise
it is unpalatable.

MRS. MALLORY.

They can be more daintily fried if they are steamed first, in which case the slices should
be cut one inch thick and should lie in salt and water two hours before frying. Crumbs sifted
through a coarse sieve are an improvement.

STUFFED EGG PLANT

Choose four rather small egg plants and cut in halves; with a spoon scoop out a part of the
flesh from each half, leaving a thin layer adhering to the skin. Salt the shells and drain;
chop the flesh. Mince two or three onions, brown with a little butter, mix with the flesh of
the egg plant, and cook away the moisture; add some chopped mushrooms, parsley and lastly an
equal quantity of bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper, remove from the fire and thicken
with yolks of eggs. Now fill the shells, dust with bread crumbs, put in a baking-pan and sprinkle
with olive oil, or bits of butter and bake.

FRENCH RECIPE.

ENDIVE SALAD.

Endive is wholesome and delicate. If the curled endive be prepared, use only the yellow leaves,
removing the thick stalks and cutting the small ones into thin pieces; the smooth endive stalk
as well must be cut fine. It may be mixed with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and a potato
mashed fine, or with sour cream mixed with oil, vinegar and salt. When mixed with the last
dressing it is usually served with hot potatoes. Endive may also be used as spinach. (See Spinach
Recipes.)

A FLOWER SALAD.

The most beautiful salad ever imagined is rarely seen upon our tables, although the principal
material for its concoction may be grown in the tiniest yard. Any one who has tried growing
nasturtiums must admit that they almost take care of themselves, and if the ground is enriched
but a little their growth and yield of blossom is astonishingly abundant. It is these same
beautiful blossoms that are used in salad, and, as if nature had surmised that their beauty
should serve the very practical end of supplying the salad bowl, the more one plucks these
growing flowers, the greater number will a small plant yield. The pleasant, pungent flavor
of these blossoms would recommend them, aside from their beauty, and when they are shaken out
of ice-cold water with some bits of heart lettuce, they, too, become crisp in their way. One
of the prettiest ways of arranging a nasturtium salad is to partly fill the bowl with the center
of a head of lettuce pulled apart and the blossoms plentifully scattered throughout. Prof.
Blot, that prince of saladmakers, recommends the use of the blossoms and petals (not the leaves)
of roses, pinks, sage, lady's slipper, marshmallow and periwinkle, as well as the nasturtium,
for decorating the ordinary lettuce salad, and reminds his readers that roses and pinks may
be had at all seasons of the year. In summer the lovely pink marshmallow is to be found wild
in the country places near salt water; so abundant are these flowers in the marshes (hence
the name) and so large are the petals that there need be no fear of robbing the flower vases
to fill the salad bowl. These salads should be dressed at the table by the mistress, as, of
course, a little wilting is sure to follow if the seasoning has been applied for any length
of time. A French dressing is the best, although a mayonnaise may be used if preferred. Opinions
differ greatly as regards the proportions of the former, but to quote Blot again, the proper
ones are two of oil to one of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste. If the eye is not trained
to measure pepper and salt and the hostess is timid about dressing a salad, let her have measured
in a pretty cut-glass sprinkler a teaspoon of salt and half of pepper mixed, for every two
of oil. For a small salad the two of oil and one of vinegar will be sufficient; measure the
saltspoon even full of oil, sprinkle this over the salad, then half the salt and pepper; toss
all lightly with the spoon and fork, then add the other spoonful of oil, the vinegar and the
remainder of the salt and pepper; toss well and serve. How simple, and yet there are women
who never have done the graceful thing of dressing lettuce at the table.

REBECCA UNDERWOOD.

Potatoes and tomatoes in alternate layers may take the place of lettuce. Just before serving
toss all together.

FLOWER SANDWICHES.

Make a filling of two-thirds nasturtium blossoms, one third leaves, lay on buttered bread,
with buttered bread on top, sandwich style.

CHICAGO RECORD.

PRESERVED ROSE LEAVES.

Put a layer of rose leaves in a jar and sprinkle sugar over them, add layers sprinkled with
sugar as the leaves are gathered until the jar is full. They will turn dark brown and will
keep for two or three years. Used in small quantities they add a delightful flavor to fruit
cake and mince pies.

MRS. ROLLINS.

SACHET POWDERS.

In making sachet powders one general direction must be borne in mind--each ingredient must
be powdered before mixing. Potpourri should be made before the season of outdoor flowers passes.
Pluck the most fragrant flowers in your garden, passing by all withered blossoms. Pick the
flowers apart, placing the petals on plates and setting them where the sun can shine upon them.
Let the petals thus continue to dry in the sun for several days. Each flower may be made into
potpourri by itself, or the different flowers may be mixed in any variety and proportion that
pleases the maker. Flowers which have little or no scent should be left out. When the leaves
are well dried sprinkle them with table salt. Do not omit this, as it is important. The right
proportion is about two ounces of the salt to each pound of leaves. If also two ounces of powdered
orris root is added and well mixed in with the dried petals the fragrance and permanence are
improved. Now the potpourri is ready to put in the jars that are sold for that purpose.

H. J. HANCOCK.

VIOLET MARMALADE.

Crush three pounds of violets to a pulp; in the meantime boil four pounds of sugar, take out
some, blow through it, and if little flakes of sugar fly from it, it is done. Add the flowers,
stir them together; add two pounds of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times,
put the marmalade into jars.

THE COOK'S OWN BOOK.

GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE.

Bruise half a dozen cloves of garlic, rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon; mix
this pulp with butter and beat thoroughly, put in a wide mouthed bottle and keep for further use.

GROUND CHERRY PUDDING.

Half fill a pudding dish with ripe ground cherries or husk tomatoes, dot with bits of butter
and cover with a soft batter made of one cup milk, one egg, one tablespoonful butter, two teaspoonfuls
baking powder and a half-saltspoonful of salt. Bake quickly and serve with lemon sauce. This
fruit is so easily raised, so prolific and so delicious, used in various ways, that I wonder
it is not more widely known and used. For pies, preserves, puddings and dried, to put in cake,
it is inferior to none. It will keep a long time in the husks in a dry place. It will flourish
in the fence corners or any out-of-the-way place, and seems to prefer a poor soil and neglect.

HARRIET I. MANN.

HERBS.

Whether food is palatable or not largely depends upon its seasoning. Good, rich material may
be stale and unprofitable because of its lack, while with it simple, inexpensive foods become
delicious and take on the appearance of luxuries. A garden of herbs with its varying flavors
is a full storehouse for the housekeeper, it gives great variety to a few materials and without
much expense of money, time or space as any little waste corner of the garden or even a window
box, will afford a fine supply. Besides use as flowers the young sprouts of most of the herbs
are available as greens or salads, and are excellent with any plain salad dressing; among them
might be mentioned mustard, cress, chervil, parsley, mint, purslane, chives, sorrel, dandelions,
nasturtiums, tarragon and fennel. Many of these herbs are ornamental and make beautiful garnishes,
or are medicinal and add to the home pharmacy. Though not equally good as the fresh herbs,
yet dried ones hold their flavors and do excellent service. Just before flowering they should
be gathered on a sunshiny day and dried by artificial heat, as less flavor escapes in quick
drying. When dry, powder them and put up in tin cans, or glass bottles, tightly sealed and
properly labeled.

=Anise.=--Anise leaves are used for garnishing, and the seeds for seasoning, also are used
medicinally.

=Balm.=--Balm leaves and stems are used medicinally and make a beverage called Balm Wine. A
variety of cat-mint called Moldavian balm is used in Germany for flavoring food.

=Basil.=--Sweet basil an aromatic herb is classed among the sweet herbs. It is used as seasoning
in soups, sauces, salads and in fish dressings. Basil vinegar takes the place in winter of
the fresh herb.

=Basil Vinegar.=--In August or September gather the fresh basil leaves. Clean them thoroughly,
put them in a wide mouthed bottle and cover with cider vinegar, or wine for fourteen days.
If extra strength is wanted draw off the vinegar after a week or ten days and pour over fresh
leaves; strain after fourteen days and bottle tightly.

=Borage.=--Its pretty blue flowers are used for garnishing salads. The young leaves and tender
tops are pickled in vinegar and are occasionally boiled for the table. Its leaves are mucilaginous
and are said to impart a coolness to beverages in which they are steeped. Borage, wine, water,
lemon and sugar make an English drink called Cool Tankard.

=Caraway.=--Caraway seeds are used in cakes, breads, meats, pastry and candies and are very
nice on mutton or lamb when roasting. Caraway and dill are a great addition to bean soup. The
root though strong flavored is sometimes used like parsnips and carrots.

=Catnip or Catmint.=--Its leaves are used medicinally and its young leaves and shoots are used
for seasoning.

=Chives.=--The young leaves of chives are used for seasoning, they are like the onion but more
delicate, and are used to flavor sauces, salads, dressings and soups. They are chopped very
fine when added to salads--sometimes the salad bowl is only rubbed with them. Chopped very
fine and sprinkled over Dutch cheese they make a very acceptable side dish or sandwich filling.

=Coriander.=--Coriander seed is used in breads, cakes and candies.

=Dill.=--The leaves are used in pickles, sauces and gravies, and the seeds, in soups, curries
and medicines.

=Fennel.=--The leaves of the common fennel have somewhat the taste of cucumber, though they
are sweet and have a more delicate odor. They are boiled and served chiefly with mackerel and
salmon though sometimes with other fish, or enter into the compound of their sauces. The young
sprouts from the roots of sweet fennel when blanched are a very agreeable salad and condiment.
The seed is medicinal.

=Henbane.=--Henbane is poisonous and is only used medicinally.

=Hops.=--The young shoots of hops are used as vegetables in the early spring, prepared in the
same way as asparagus and salsify. The leaves are narcotic and are therefore often made up
into pillows.

=Horehound.=--The leaves are used for seasoning and are a popular remedy for a cough. It is
much used in flavoring candies.

=Hyssop.=--The young leaves and shoots are used for flavoring food, but their principal use
is medicinal. A syrup made from it is a popular remedy for a cold.

=Lavender.=--The leaves are used for seasoning, but the chief use of the plant is the distillation
of perfumery from its flowers which are full of a sweet odor.

=Marjoram Sweet.=--Sweet marjoram belongs to the sweet herbs, the leaves and ends of the shoots
are used for seasoning, and are also used medicinally.

=Pennyroyal.=--The leaves are used for seasoning puddings and other dishes, and also have a
medicinal use.

=Pot Marigold.=--Marigold has a bitter taste, but was formerly much used in seasoning soups
and is still in some parts of England. The flowers are dried and are used medicinally and for
coloring butter and cheese.

=Pimpinella, or Salad-Burnet.=--The young tender leaves are used as a salad; they have a flavor
resembling that of cucumbers.

=Rosemary.=--A distillation of the leaves makes a pleasant perfume and is also used medicinally.
It is one of the sweet herbs for seasoning.

=Rue.=--This is one of the bitter herbs yet is sometimes used for seasoning.

=Saffron.=--The dried pistils are used for flavoring and dyeing. Some people use it with rice.
It is often used in fancy cooking as a coloring material.

=Sage.=--The leaves both fresh and dried are used for seasoning, meats and dressings especially.

=Summer Savory.=--Summer savory is used for flavoring, and especially for flavoring beans.

=Tarragon or Esdragon.=--Esdragon with its fine aromatic flavor is a valuable adjunct to salads
and sauces.

=Tarragon or Esdragon Vinegar.=--Strip the leaves from the fresh cut stalks of tarragon. Put
a cupful of them in a wide mouthed bottle and cover with a quart of cider or wine vinegar,
after fourteen days, strain, bottle and cork tightly.

=Tagetis Lucida.=--Its leaves have almost the exact flavor of tarragon and can be used as its
substitute.

=Thyme.=--Thyme is one of the sweet herbs and its leaves are favorites for seasoning in cooking.

=Winter Savory.=--The leaves and young shoots, like summer savory are used for flavoring foods.

=Wormwood.=--Wormwood is used medicinally as its name implies.

HORSERADISH CREAM APPLE SAUCE.

Stew six sour apples and sift; let cool, and add two heaping tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish;
when cold and ready to serve add double the amount of whipped cream, slightly sweetened.

CHICAGO RECORD.

KALE. (See Borecole.)

KOHL RABI.

Strip the leaves from the stem, put on in salted water and boil. Peel the tubers, slice thin
and boil until tender; drain and chop very fine both leaves and tubers separately, then mix
thoroughly; brown a tablespoonful of butter and a little flour in a saucepan, add the kohl
rabi and cook for a moment, then add a cup of meat broth and boil thoroughly; serve very hot.

LEAVES FOR CULINARY PURPOSES.

In addition to sweet and bitter herbs, we have many leaves available for seasoning. The best
known and most used are bay leaves, a leaf or two in custards, rice, puddings and soups adds
a delicate flavor and aroma. A laurel leaf answers the same purpose. Bitter almond flavoring
has a substitute in fresh peach leaves which have a smell and taste of bitter almond. Brew
the leaves, fresh or dry, and use a teaspoonful or two of the liquid. Use all these leaves
stintedly as they are strongly aromatic, and it is easy to get too much. The flowering currant
gives a flavor that is a compound of the red and black currant; gooseberry leaves in the bottled
fruit emphasize the flavor, and it is said keep the fruit greener. A fresh geranium or lemon
verbena leaf gives a delightful odor and taste to jelly. A geranium leaf or two in the bottom
of a cake dish while the cake is baking will flavor the cake. Nasturtium leaves and flowers
find a place in sandwiches and salads. The common syringa has an exact cucumber flavor and
can be a substitute for cucumber in salads or wherever that flavor is desired. Lemon and orange
leaves answer for the juice of their fruits. Horseradish and grape leaves have use in pickles.
Carrot, cucumber and celery leaves give the respective flavors of their vegetables. Tender
celery leaves can be thoroughly dried and bottled for winter use. The use of leaves is an economy
for a household, and a source of great variety.

LEEKS.

Leeks are generally used to flavor soups, sauces and salads and are seldom brought to the table
as a separate dish. However, they are semi-occasionally served as follows:--Boiled and dressed
with a cream sauce; or when two-thirds done are put to soak in vinegar seasoned with salt,
pepper and cloves, then are drained, stuffed, dipped in batter and fried.

BOILED LETTUCE.

Take the coarser part of lettuce not delicate enough for a salad, boil in salted water until
soft, then drain thoroughly. Slightly brown a tablespoonful of butter and a dessertspoonful
of flour in a saucepan, put in the lettuce, let it cook up once or twice, then add a half-cup
of stock and boil thoroughly, just before serving add a gill of cream and give a sprinkle of
nutmeg if the flavor is liked.

LETTUCE SALAD.

Lettuce leaves whole or shredded are served with vinegar, salt, pepper, mustard and a little
sugar, or with a French or mayonnaise dressing; or it is shredded and mixed with veal and egg,
sweetbreads, shrimps, cress, cucumber, tomatoes or other salad material and is treated with
the various salad dressings, mentioned above.

STEWED GREEN PEAS WITH LETTUCE.

Shell a half peck of peas, and shred two heads of lettuce; boil together with as little water
as possible to keep it from burning, and stir often for the same purpose. Stew one hour, set
back on the stove, and add one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, salt, and
a dash of cayenne pepper and just as it is taken up, one well beaten egg, which must not be
allowed to boil. Serve at once.

STUFFED LETTUCE.

Use five clean heads of lettuce, wash thoroughly, open up the leaves and fill between with
any highly seasoned meat--sweetbreads, chicken or veal preferred--or make a forcemeat stuffing.
Tie up the heads, put into a saucepan with any good gravy, stock or sauce and cook until thoroughly
heated through; serve in the gravy.

LETTUCE SOUP.

