First published 1904.

                           HONORE DE BALZAC
                        HIS LIFE AND WRITINGS

                                  BY

                           MARY F. SANDARS

                               PREFACE

Books about Balzac would fill a fair-sized library. Criticisms on his novels abound, and his
contemporaries have provided us with several amusing volumes dealing in a humorous spirit with
his eccentricities, and conveying the impression that the author of "La Cousine Bette" and
"Le Pere Goriot" was nothing more than an amiable buffoon.

Nevertheless, by some strange anomaly, there exists no Life of him derived from original sources,
incorporating the information available since the appearance of the volume called "Lettres
a l'Etrangere." This book, which is the source of much of our present knowledge of Balzac,
is a collection of letters written by him from 1833 to 1844 to Madame Hanska, the Polish lady
who afterwards became his wife. The letters are exact copies of the originals, having been
made by the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, to whom the autographs belong.

It seems curious that no one should yet have made use of this mine of biographical detail.
In English we have a Memoir by Miss Wormeley, written at a time when little as known about
the great novelist, and a Life by Mr. Frederick Wedmore in the "Great Writers" Series; but
this, like Miss Wormeley's Memoir, appeared before the "Lettres a l'Etrangere" were published.
Moreover, it is a very small book, and the space in it devoted to Balzac as a man is further
curtailed by several chapters devoted to criticism of his work. The introduction to the excellent
translation of Balzac's novels undertaken by Mr. Saintsbury, contains a short account of his
life, but this only fills a few pages and does not enter into much detail. Besides these, an
admirable essay on Balzac has appeared in "Main Currents of Nineteenth-century Literature,"
by Mr. George Brandes; the scope of this, however, is mainly criticism of his merits as a writer,
not description of his personality and doings.

Even in the French language, there is no trustworthy or satisfactory Life of Balzac--a fact
on which numerous critical writers make many comments, though they apparently hesitate to throw
themselves into the breach and to undertake one. Madame Surville's charming Memoir only professes
to treat of Balzac's early life, and even within these limits she intentionally conceals as
much as she reveals. M. Edmond Bire, in his interesting book, presents Balzac in different
aspects, as Royalist, playwriter, admirer of Napoleon, and so on; but M. Bire gives no connected
account of his life, while MM. Hanotaux and Vicaire deal solely with Balzac's two years as
printer and publisher. The Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul is the one man who could give
a detailed and minutely correct Life of Balzac, as he has proved by the stores of biographical
knowledge contained in his works the "Roman d'Amour," "Autour de Honore de Balzac," "La Genese
d'un Roman de Balzac, 'Les Paysans,'" and above all, "L'Histoire des Oeuvres de Balzac," which
has become a classic. The English or American reader would hardly be able to appreciate these
fascinating books, however, unless he were first equipped with the knowledge of Balzac which
would be provided by a concise Life.

In these circumstances, helped and encouraged by Dr. Emil Reich, whose extremely interesting
lectures I had attended with much enjoyment, and who very kindly gave me lists of books, and
assisted me with advice, I engaged in the task of writing this book. It is not intended to
add to the mass of criticism of Balzac's novels, being merely an attempt to portray the man
as he was, and to sketch correctly a career which has been said to be more thrilling than a
large proportion of novels.

I must apologise for occasional blank spaces, for when Balzac is with Madame Hanska, and his
letters to her cease, as a general rule all our information ceases also; and the intending
biographer can only glean from scanty allusions in the letters written afterwards, what happened
at Rome, Naples, Dresden, or any of the other towns, to which Balzac travelled in hot haste
to meet his divinity.

The book has been compiled as far as possible from original sources; as the Vicomte de Spoelberch
de Lovenjoul--whose collection of documents relating to Balzac, Gautier, and George Sand is
unique, while his comprehensive knowledge of Balzac is the result of many years of study--has
most kindly allowed me to avail myself of his library at Brussels. There, arranged methodically,
according to some wonderful system which enables the Vicomte to find at once any document his
visitor may ask for, are hundreds of Balzac's autograph writings, many of them unpublished
and of great interest. There, too, are portraits and busts of the celebrated novelist, letters
from his numerous admirers, and the proofs of nearly all his novels--those sheets covered with
a network of writing, which were the despair of the printers. The collection is most remarkable,
even when we remember the large sums of money, and the patience and ability, which have for
many years been focussed on its formation. It will one day be deposited in the museum at Chantilly,
near Paris, where it will be at the disposal of those who wish to study its contents.

The Vicomte has kindly devoted much time to answering my questions, and has shown me documents
and autograph letters, the exact words of which have been the subject of discussion and dispute,
so that I have been able myself to verify the fact that the copies made by M. de Spoelberch
de Lovenjoul are taken exactly from the originals. He has warned me to be particularly careful
about my authorities, as many of Balzac's letters--printed as though copied from autographs--are
incorrectly dated, and have been much altered.

He has further added to his kindness by giving me several illustrations, and by having this
book translated to him, in order to correct it carefully by the information to which he alone
has access. I gladly take this opportunity of acknowledging how deeply I am indebted to him.

I cannot consider these words of introduction complete without again expressing my sense of
what I owe to Dr. Reich, to whom the initial idea of this book is due, and without whose energetic
impetus it would never have been written. He has found time, in the midst of a very busy life,
to read through, and to make many valuable suggestions, and I am most grateful for all he has
done to help me.

I must finish by thanking Mr. Curtis Brown most heartily for the trouble he has taken on my
behalf, for the useful hints he has given me, and for the patience with which he has elucidated
the difficulties of an inexperienced writer.

    MARY F. SANDARS.

                           HONORE DE BALZAC

                              CHAPTER I

  Balzac's claims to greatness--The difficulty in attempting a
  complete Life--His complex character--The intention of this book.

At a time when the so-called Realistic School is in the ascendant among novelists, it seems
strange that little authentic information should have been published in the English language
about the great French writer, Honore de Balzac. Almost alone among his contemporaries, he
dared to claim the interest of the world for ordinary men and women solely on the ground of
a common humanity. Thus he was the first to embody in literature the principle of Burns that
"a man's a man for a' that"; and though this fact has now become a truism, it was a discovery,
and an important discovery, when Balzac wrote. He showed that, because we are ourselves ordinary
men and women, it is really human interest, and not sensational circumstance which appeals
to us, and that material for enthralling drama can be found in the life of the most commonplace
person--of a middle-aged shopkeeper threatened with bankruptcy, or of an elderly musician with
a weakness for good dinners. At one blow he destroyed the unreal ideal of the Romantic School,
who degraded man by setting up in his place a fantastic and impossible hero as the only theme
worthy of their pen; and thus he laid the foundation of the modern novel.

His own life is full of interest. He was not a recluse or a bookworm; his work was to study
men, and he lived among men, he fought strenuously, he enjoyed lustily, he suffered keenly,
and he died prematurely, worn out by the force of his own emotions, and by the prodigies of
labour to which he was impelled by the restless promptings of his active brain, and by his
ever-pressing need for money. Some of his letters to Madame Hanska have been published during
the last few years; and where can we read a more pathetic love story than the record of his
seventeen years' waiting for her, and of the tragic ending to his long-deferred happiness?
Or where in modern times can more exciting and often comical tales of adventure be found than
the accounts of his wild and always unsuccessful attempts to become a millionaire? His friends
comprised most of the celebrated French writers of the day; and though not a lover of society,
he was acquainted with many varieties of people, while his own personality was powerful, vivid,
and eccentric.

Thus he appears at first sight to be a fascinating subject for biography; but if we examine
a little more closely, we shall realise the web of difficulties in which the writer of a complete
and exhaustive Life of Balzac would involve himself, and shall understand why the task has
never been attempted. The great author's money affairs alone are so complicated that it is
doubtful whether he ever mastered them himself, and it is certainly impossible for any one
else to understand them; while he managed to shroud his private life, especially his relations
to women, in almost complete mystery. For some years after his death the monkish habit in which
he attired himself was considered symbolic of his mental attitude; and even now, though the
veil is partially lifted, and we realise the great part women played in his life, there remain
many points which are not yet cleared up.

Consequently any one who attempts even in the most unambitious way to give a complete account
of the great writer's life, is confronted with many blank spaces. It is true that the absolutely
mysterious disappearances of which his contemporaries speak curiously are now partially accounted
for, as we know that they were usually connected with Madame Hanska, and that Balzac's sense
of honour would not allow him to breathe her name, except to his most intimate friends, and
under the pledge of the strictest secrecy. His letters to her have allowed a flood of light
to pour upon his hitherto veiled personality; but they are almost our only reliable source
of information. Therefore, when they cease, because Balzac is with his ladylove, and we are
suddenly excluded from his confidence, we can only guess what is happening.

In this way, we possess but the scantiest information about the journeys which occupied a great
part of his time during the last few years of his life. We know that he travelled, regardless
of expense and exhaustion, as quickly as possible, and by the very shortest route, to meet
Madame Hanska; but this once accomplished, we can gather little more, and we long for a diary
or a confidential correspondent. In the first rapture of his meeting at Neufchatel, he did
indeed open his heart to his sister, Madame Surville; but his habitual discretion, and his
care for the reputation of the woman he loved, soon imposed silence upon him, and he ceased
to comment on the great drama of his life.

The great versatility of his mind, and the power he possessed of throwing himself with the
utmost keenness into many absolutely dissimilar and incongruous enterprises at the same time,
add further to the difficulty of understanding him. An extraordinary number of subjects had
their place in his capacious brain, and the ease with which he dismissed one and took up another
with equal zest the moment after, causes his doings to seem unnatural to us of ordinary mind.
Leon Gozlan gives a curious instance of this on the occasion of the first reading of the "Ressources
de Quinola."

Balzac had recited his play in the green-room of the Odeon to the assembled actors and actresses,
and before a most critical audience had gone through the terrible strain of trying to improvise
the fifth act, which was not yet written. He and Gozlan went straight from the hot atmosphere
of the theatre to refresh themselves in the cool air of the Luxembourg Gardens. Here we should
expect one of two things to happen. Either Balzac would be depressed with the ill-success of
his fifth act, at which, according to Gozlan, he had acquitted himself so badly that Madame
Dorval, the principal actress, refused to take a role in the play; or, on the other hand, his
sanguine temperament would cause him to overlook the drawbacks, and to think only of the enthusiasm
with which the first four acts had been received. Neither of these two things took place. Balzac
"n'y pensait deja plus." He talked with the greatest eagerness of the embellishments he had
proposed to M. Decazes for his palace, and especially of a grand spiral staircase, which was
to lead from the centre of the Luxembourg Gardens to the Catacombs, so that these might be
shown to visitors, and become a source of profit to Paris. But of his play he said nothing.

The reader of "Lettres a l'Etrangere," which are written to the woman with whom Balzac was
passionately in love, and whom he afterwards married, may, perhaps, at first sight congratulate
himself on at last understanding in some degree the great author's character and mode of life.
If he dives beneath the surface, however, he will find that these beautiful and touching letters
give but an incomplete picture; and that, while writing them, Balzac was throwing much energy
into schemes, which he either does not mention to his correspondent, or touches on in the most
cursory fashion. Therefore the perspective of his life is difficult to arrange, and ordinary
rules for gauging character are at fault. We find it impossible to follow the principle, that
because Balzac possessed one characteristic, he could not also show a diametrically opposite
quality--that, for instance, because tenderness, delicacy of feeling, and a high sense of reverence
and of honour were undoubtedly integral parts of his personality, the stories told by his contemporaries
of his occasional coarseness must necessarily be false.

His own words, written to the Duchesse d'Abrantes in 1828, have no doubt a great element of
truth in them: "I have the most singular character I know. I study myself as I might study
another person, and I possess, shut up in my five foot eight inches, all the incoherences,
all the contrasts possible; and those who think me vain, extravagant, obstinate, high-minded,
without connection in my ideas,--a fop, negligent, idle, without application, without reflection,
without any constancy; a chatterbox, without tact, badly brought up, impolite, whimsical, unequal
in temper,--are quite as right as those who perhaps say that I am economical, modest, courageous,
stingy, energetic, a worker, constant, silent, full of delicacy, polite, always gay. Those
who consider that I am a coward will not be more wrong than those who say that I am extremely
brave; in short, learned or ignorant, full of talent or absurd, nothing astonishes me more
than myself. I end by believing that I am only an instrument played on by circumstances. Does
this kaleidoscope exist, because, in the soul of those who claim to paint all the affections
of the human heart, chance throws all these affections themselves, so that they may be able,
by the force of their imagination, to feel what they paint? And is observation a sort of memory
suited to aid this lively imagination? I begin to think so."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 77.

Certainly Balzac's character proves to the hilt the truth of the rule that, with few exceptions
in the world's history, the higher the development, the more complex the organisation and the
more violent the clashing of the divers elements of the man's nature; so that his soul resembles
a field of battle, and he wears out quickly. Nevertheless, because everything in Balzac seems
contradictory, when he is likened by one of his friends to the sea, which is one and indivisible,
we perceive that the comparison is not inapt. Round the edge are the ever-restless waves; on
the surface the foam blown by fitful gusts of wind, the translucent play of sunbeams, and the
clamour of storms lashing up the billows; but down in the sombre depths broods the resistless,
immovable force which tinges with its reflection the dancing and play above, and is the genius
and fascination, the mystery and tragedy of the sea.

Below the merriment and herculean jollity, so little represented in his books, there was deep,
gloomy force in the soul of the man who, gifted with an almost unparalleled imagination, would
yet grip the realities of the pathetic and terrible situations he evolved with brutal strength
and insistence. The mind of the writer of "Le Pere Goriot," "La Cousine Bette," and "Le Cousin
Pons," those terrible tragedies where the Greek god Fate marches on his victims relentlessly,
and there is no staying of the hand for pity, could not have been merely a wide, sunny expanse
with no dark places. Nevertheless, we are again puzzled, when we attempt to realise the personality
of a man whose imagination could soar to the mystical and philosophical conception of "Seraphita,"
which is full of religious poetry, and who yet had the power in "Cesar Birotteau" to invest
prosaic and even sordid details with absolute verisimilitude, or in the "Contes Drolatiques"
would write, in Old French, stories of Rabelaisian breadth and humour. The only solution of
these contradictions is that, partly perhaps by reason of great physical strength, certainly
because of an abnormally powerful brain and imagination, Balzac's thoughts, feelings, and passions
were unusually strong, and were endowed with peculiar impetus and independence of each other;
and from this resulted a versatility which caused most unexpected developments, and which fills
us of smaller mould with astonishment.

Nevertheless, steadfastness was decidedly the groundwork of the character of the man who was
not dismayed by the colossal task of the Comedie Humaine; but pursued his work through discouragement,
ill health, and anxieties. Except near the end of his life, when, owing to the unreasonable
strain to which it had been subjected, his powerful organism had begun to fail, Balzac refused
to neglect his vocation even for his love affairs--a self-control which must have been a severe
test to one of his temperament.

This absorption in his work cannot have been very flattering to the ladies he admired; and
one plausible explanation of Madame de Castries' coldness to his suit is that she did not believe
in the devotion of a lover who, while paying her the most assiduous court at Aix, would yet
write from five in the morning till half-past five in the evening, and only bestow his company
on her from six till an early bedtime. Even the adored Madame Hanska had to take second place
where work was concerned. When they were both at Vienna in 1835, he writes with some irritation,
apparently in answer to a remonstrance on her part, that he cannot work when he knows he has
to go out; and that, owing to the time he spent the evening before in her society, he must
now shut himself up for fourteen hours and toil at "Le Lys dans la Vallee." He adds, with his
customary force of language, that if he does not finish the book at Vienna, he will throw himself
into the Danube!

The great psychologist knew his own character well when, in another letter to Madame Hanska,
who has complained of his frivolity, he cries, indignantly: "Frivolity of character! Why, you
speak as a good bourgeois would have done, who, seeing Napoleon turn to the right, to the left,
and on all sides to examine his field of battle, would have said, 'This man cannot remain in
one place; he has no fixed idea!'"[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

This change of posture, though consonant, as Balzac says, with real stability, is a source
of bewilderment to the reader of his sayings and doings, till it dawns upon him that, through
pride, policy, and the usual shrinking of the sensitive from casting their pearls before swine,
Balzac was a confirmed poseur, so that what he tells us is often more misleading than his silence.
Leon Gozlan's books are a striking instance of the fact that, with all Balzac's jollity, his
camaraderie, and his flow of words, he did not readily reveal himself, except to those whom
he could thoroughly trust to understand him. Gozlan went about with Balzac very often, and
was specially chosen by him time after time as a companion; but he really knew very little
of the great man. If we compare his account of Balzac's feeling or want of feeling at a certain
crisis, and then read what is written on the same subject to Madame Hanska, Balzac's enormous
power of reserve, and his habit of deliberately misleading those who were not admitted to his
confidence, may be gauged.

George Sand tells us an anecdote which shows how easily, from his anxiety not to wear his heart
upon his sleeve, Balzac might be misunderstood. He dined with her on January 29th, 1844, after
a visit to Russia, and related at table, with peals of laughter and apparently enormous satisfaction,
an instance which had come under his notice of the ferocious exercise of absolute power. Any
stranger listening, would have thought him utterly heartless and brutal, but George Sand knew
better. She whispered to him: "That makes you inclined to cry, doesn't it?"[*] He answered
nothing; left off laughing, as if a spring in him had broken; was very serious for the rest
of the evening, and did not say a word more about Russia.

[*] "Autour de la Table," by George Sand.

