Paddy Fooshane kept a shebeen house at Barleymount Cross, in which he sold whisky--from which
his Majesty did not derive any large portion of his revenues--ale, and provisions. One evening
a number of friends, returning from a funeral---all neighbours too--stopt at his house, "because
they were in grief," to drink a drop. There was Andy Agar, a stout, rattling fellow, the natural
son of a gentleman residing near there; Jack Shea, who was afterwards transported for running
away with Biddy Lawlor; Tim Cournane, who, by reason of being on his keeping, was privileged
to carry a gun; Owen Connor, a march-of-intellect man, who wished to enlighten proctors by
making them swallow their processes; and a number of other "good boys." The night began to
"rain cats and dogs," and there was no stirring out; so the cards were called for, a roaring
fire was made down, and the whisky and ale began to flow. After due observation, and several
experiments, a space large enough for the big table, and free from the drop down, was discovered.
Here six persons, including Andy, Jack, Tim--with his gun between his legs--and Owen, sat to
play for a pig's head, of which the living owner, in the parlour below, testified, by frequent
grunts, his displeasure at this unceremonious disposal of his property.

Card-playing is very thirsty, and the boys were anxious to keep out the wet; so that long before
the pig's head was decided, a messenger had been dispatched several times to Killarney, a distance
of four English miles, for a pint of whisky each time. The ale also went merrily round, until
most of the men were quite stupid, their faces swoln, and their eyes red and heavy. The contest
at length was decided; but a quarrel about the skill of the respective parties succeeded, and
threatened broken heads at one time. At last Jack Shea swore they must have something to eat;----him
but he was starved with drink, and he must get some rashers somewhere or other. Every one declared
the same; and Paddy was ordered to cook some griskins forthwith. Paddy was completely nonplussed:--all
the provisions were gone, and yet his guests were not to be trifled with. He made a hundred
excuses--"'Twas late--'twas dry now--and there was nothing in the house; sure they ate and
drank enough." But all in vain. The ould sinner was threatened with instant death if he delayed.
So Paddy called a council of war in the parlour, consisting of his wife and himself.

"Agrah, Jillen, agrah, what will we do with these? Is there any meat in the tub? Where is the
tongue? If it was yours, Jillen, we'd give them enough of it; but I mane the cow's." (aside.)

"Sure the proctors got the tongue ere yesterday, and you know there an't a bit in the tub.
Oh the murtherin villains! and I'll engage 'twill be no good for us, after all my white bread
and the whisky. That it may pison 'em!"

"Amen! Jillen; but don't curse them. After all, where's the meat? I'm sure that Andy will kill
me if we don't make it out any how;--and he hasn't a penny to pay for it. You could drive the
mail coach, Jillen, through his breeches pocket without jolting over a ha'penny. Coming, coming;
d'ye hear 'em?"

"Oh, they'll murther us. Sure if we had any of the tripe I sent yesterday to the gauger."

"Eh! What's that you say? I declare to God here's Andy getting up. We must do something. Thonom
an dhiaoul, I have it. Jillen run and bring me the leather breeches; run woman, alive! Where's
the block and the hatchet? Go up and tell 'em you're putting down the pot."

Jillen pacified the uproar in the kitchen by loud promises, and returned to Paddy. The use
of the leather breeches passed her comprehension; but Paddy actually took up the leather breeches,
tore away the lining with great care, chopped the leather with the hatchet on the block, and
put it into the pot as tripes. Considering the situation in which Andy and his friends were,
and the appetite of the Irish peasantry for meat in any shape--"a bone" being their summum
bonum--the risk was very little. If discovered, however, Paddy's safety was much worse than
doubtful, as no people in the world have a greater horror of any unusual food. One of the most
deadly modes of revenge they can employ is to give an enemy dog's or cat's flesh; and there
have been instances where the persons who have eaten it, on being informed of the fact, have
gone mad. But Paddy's habit of practical jokes, from which nothing could wean him, and his
anger at their conduct, along with the fear he was in did not allow him to hesitate a moment.
Jillen remonstrated in vain. "Hould your tongue, you foolish woman. They're all as blind as
the pig there. They'll never find it out. Bad luck to 'em too, my leather breeches! that I
gave a pound note and a hog for in Cork. See how nothing else would satisfy 'em!" The meat
at length was ready. Paddy drowned it in butter, threw out the potatoes on the table, and served
it up smoking hot with the greatest gravity.

"By ----," says Jack Shea, "that's fine stuff! How a man would dig a trench after that."

"I'll take a priest's oath," answered Tim Cohill, the most irritable of men, but whose temper
was something softened by the rich steam;--

"Yet, Tim, what's a priest's oath? I never heard that."

"Why, sure, every one knows you didn't ever hear of anything of good."

"I say you lie, Tim, you rascal."

Tim was on his legs in a few moments, and a general battle was about to begin; but the appetite
was too strong, and the quarrel was settled; Tim having been appeased by being allowed to explain
a priest's oath. According to him, a priest's oath was this:--He was surrounded by books, which
were gradually piled up until they reached his lips. He then kissed the uppermost, and swore
by all to the bottom. As soon as the admiration excited by his explanation, in those who were
capable of hearing Tim, had ceased, all fell to work; and certainly, if the tripes had been
of ordinary texture, drunk as was the party, they would soon have disappeared. After gnawing
at them for some time, "Well," says Owen Connor, "that I mightn't!--but these are the quarest
tripes I ever eat. It must be she was very ould."

"By ----," says Andy, taking a piece from his mouth to which he had been paying his addresses
for the last half hour, "I'd as soon be eating leather. She was a bull, man; I can't find the
soft end at all of it."

"And that's true for you, Andy," said the man of the gun; "and 'tis the greatest shame they
hadn't a bull-bait to make him tinder. Paddy, was it from Jack Clifford's bull you got 'em?
They'd do for wadding, they're so tough."

"I'll tell you, Tim, where I got them--'twas out of Lord Shannon's great cow at Cork, the great
fat cow that the Lord Mayor bought for the Lord Lieutenant--Asda churp naur hagushch."[14]

    [14] May it never come out of his body!

"Amen, I pray God! Paddy. Out of Lord Shandon's cow? near the steeple, I suppose; the great
cow that couldn't walk with tallow. By ----, these are fine tripes. They'll make a man very
strong. Andy, give me two or three libbhers more of 'em."

"Well, see that! out of Lord Shandon's cow: I wonder what they gave her, Paddy. That I mightn't!--but
these would eat a pit of potatoes. Any how, they're good for the teeth. Paddy, what's the reason
they send all the good mate from Cork to the Blacks?"

But before Paddy could answer this question, Andy, who had been endeavouring to help Tim, uttered
a loud "Thonom an dhiaoul! what's this? Isn't this flannel?" The fact was, he had found a piece
of the lining, which Paddy, in his hurry, had not removed; and all was confusion. Every eye
was turned to Paddy; but with wonderful quickness he said "'Tis the book tripe, agragal, don't
you see?"--and actually persuaded them to it.

"Well, any how," says Tim, "it had the taste of wool."

"May this choke me," says Jack Shea, "if I didn't think that 'twas a piece of a leather breeches
when I saw Andy chawing it."

This was a shot between wind and water to Paddy. His self-possession was nearly altogether
lost, and he could do no more than turn it off by a faint laugh. But it jarred most unpleasantly
on Andy's nerves. After looking at Paddy for some time with a very ominous look, he said, "Yirroo
Pandhrig of the tricks, if I thought you were going on with any work here, my soul and my guts
to the devil if I would not cut you into garters. By the vestment I'd make a furhurmeen of you."

"Is it I, Andy? That the hands may fall off me!"

But Tim Cohill made a most seasonable diversion. "Andy, when you die, you'll be the death of
one fool, any how. What do you know that wasn't ever in Cork itself about tripes. I never ate
such mate in my life; and 'twould be good for every poor man in the County of Kerry if he had
a tub of it."

Tim's tone of authority, and the character he had got for learning, silenced every doubt, and
all laid siege to the tripes again. But after some time, Andy was observed gazing with the
most astonished curiosity into the plate before him. His eyes were rivetted on something; at
last he touched it with his knife, arid exclaimed, "Kirhappa, dar dhia!"--[A button by G--.]

"What's that you say?" burst from all! and every one rose in the best manner he could, to learn
the meaning of the button.

"Oh, the villain of the world!" roared Andy, "I'm pisoned! Where's the pike? For God's sake
Jack, run for the priest, or I'm a dead man with the breeches. Where is he?--yeer bloods won't
ye catch him, and I pisoned?"

The fact was, Andy had met one of the knee-buttons sewed into a piece of the tripe, and it
was impossible for him to fail discovering the cheat. The rage, however, was not confined to
Andy. As soon as it was understood what had been done, there was an universal rush for Paddy
and Jillen; but Paddy was much too cunning to be caught, after the narrow escape he had of
it before. The moment after the discovery of the lining, that he could do so without suspicion,
he stole from the table, left the house, and hid himself. Jillen did the same; and nothing
remained for the eaters, to vent their rage, but breaking every thing in the cabin; which was
done in the utmost fury. Andy, however, continued watching for Paddy with a gun, a whole month
after. He might be seen prowling along the ditches near the shebeen-house, waiting for a shot
at him. Not that he would have scrupled to enter it, were he likely to find Paddy there; but
the latter was completely on the shuchraun, and never visited his cabin except by stealth.
It was in one of those visits that Andy hoped to catch him.

--Tait's Edinburgh Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSATIONS WITH LORD BYRON.

By the Countess of Blessington.

One of our first rides with Lord Byron was to Nervi, a village on the sea-coast, most romantically
situated, and each turn of the road presenting various and beautiful prospects. They were all
familiar to him, and he failed not to point them out, but in very sober terms, never allowing
any thing like enthusiasm in his expressions, though many of the views might have excited it.

