And Malcolm, in his agitation, poured forth the whole story of his having shifted from his
old cherished purpose of devoting himself to the service of Heaven, and leaving lands and vassals
to the stronger hands of Patrick and Lilias; how, having thus given himself to the world, he
had fallen into temptation; how he had let himself be led to persecute with his suit a noble
lady, vowed like himself; how he had almost agreed to marry her by force: and how he had been
running into the ordinary dissipations of the camp, abstaining from confession, avoiding mass;
disobeying orders, plunging into scenes of plunder, till he had almost been the death of Patrick,
whom he had already so cruelly wronged.

So felt the boy.  Fresh from that death-bed, the evils his conscience had protested against
from the first appeared to him frightfully heinous, and his anguish of self-reproach was such,
that Patrick listened in the greatest anxiety lest he should hear of some deadly stain on his
young kinsman's scutcheon; but when the tale was told, and he had demanded 'Is that all?' and
found that no further overt act was alleged against Malcolm, he breathed a long sigh, and muttered,
'You daft laddie! you had fairly startled me!  So this is the coil, is it?  Who ever told you
to put on a cowl, I should like to know?  Why, 'twas what my poor father ever declared against.
I take your lands!  By my troth! 'twould be enough to make me break faith with your sister,
if I could!'

'The vow was in my heart,' faltered Malcolm.

'In a fule's head!' said Patrick.  'What right have babes to be talking of vows?  'Twould be
the best tidings I've heard for many a long day, that you were wedded to a lass with a good
tocher, and fit to guide your silly pate.  What's that?  Her vows!  If they are no better than
yours, the sooner they are forgot the better.  If she had another love, 'twould be another
matter, but with a bishop on your side, you've naught to fear.'

Malcolm turned away, sick at heart.  To him his present position had become absolute terror.
His own words had worked him up to an alarming sense of having lapsed from high aims to mere
selfishness; of having profaned vows, consented to violence, and fallen away from grace; and
he was in an almost feverish passion to utter something that would irrevocably bind him to
his former intentions; but here were the King and Patrick both conspiring to silence him, and
hold him back to his fallen and perilous state.  Nay, Patrick even derided his penitence. 
Patrick was an honourable knight, a religious man, as times went, but he had been brought up
in a much rougher and more unscrupulous school than Malcolm, and had been hardened by years
of service as a soldier of fortune.  The Armagnac camp was not like that of England.  Warriors
of such piety and strictness as Henry and Bedford had never come within his ken; and that any
man, professing to be a soldier, should hesitate at the license of war, was incomprehensible
to him.  The discipline of Henry's army had been scoffed at in the French camp, and every infraction
of it hailed as a token of hypocrisy; and to the stout Scot Malcolm's grief for the rapine
at Meaux, which after all he had not committed, seemed a simple absurdity.  Even his own danger,
on the second occasion, did not make him alter his opinion; it was all the fortune of war.
And he was not sure that he had not best have been stifled at once, since his hands were tied
from warfare.  And as for Lily--how was he to win her now?  Then, as Malcolm opened his mouth,
Patrick sharply charged him to hold his tongue as to that folly, unless he wanted to drive
him to make a vow on his side, that he would turn Knight of Rhodes, and never wed.

Malcolm, wearied out with excitement, came at last to weeping that no one would hear or understand
him; but the scene was ended by Bairdsbrae, who, returning, brought a leech with him, who at
once took the command of Patrick, and ordered him to his bed.

Malcolm could not rest.  He was feverish with the shock of grief and awe, and absorbed in the
thought which had mastered him, and which was much dwelt on in the middle ages:--the monastic
path, going towards heaven straight as a sunbeam; the secular, twining its way through a tortuous
difficult course--the 'broad way,' tending downward to the abyss.  To his terrified apprehension,
he had abandoned the direct and narrow path for the fatal road, and there might at any moment
be captured, and whirled away by the grisly phantom Death, who had just snatched the mightiest
in his inevitable clutch; and with something of the timidity of his nature, he was in absolute
terror, until he should be able to set himself back on the shining road from which he had swerved,
and be rid of the load of transgression which seemed ready to sink him into the gulf.

Those few and perfunctory confessions to a courtly priest who knew nothing about him, and was
sure not to be hard on a king's cousin, now seemed to add to his guilt: and, wandering down-stairs
towards the chapel, he met a train of ecclesiastics slowly leaving it, having just been relieved
by a bevy of monks from a neighbouring convent, who took up the chants where they had left them.

Looking up at them, he recognized Dr. Bennet's bent head, and throwing himself before him on
his knee, he gasped, 'O father, father! hear me! Take me back!  Give me hope!'

'What means this, my young lord?' said Dr. Bennet, pausing, while his brethren passed on. 
'Are you sick?' he added, kindly, seeing the whiteness of Malcolm's face, and his startled eye.

'Oh, no, no! only sick at heart at my own madness, and the doom on it!  O Sir, hear me!  Take
my vow again! give me absolution once more to a true shrift.  Oh, if you will hear me, it shall
be honest this time!  Only put me in the way again.'

The chaplain was sorely sad and weary.  He it was whose ministrations had chiefly comforted
the dying King.  To him it had been the loss of a deeply-loved son and pupil, as well as of
almost unbounded hopes for the welfare of the Church; and he had had likewise, in the freshness
of his sorrow, to take the lead in the ecclesiastical ceremonies that ensued, so that both
in body and mind he was well-nigh worn out, and longed for peace in which to face his own private
sorrow; but the wild words and anguished looks of the young Scot showed him that his case was
one for immediate hearing, and he drew the lad into the confessional, authoritatively calmed
his agitation, and prepared to hear the outpouring of the boy's self-reproach.

He heard it all--sifting facts from fancies, and learning the early purpose, the terror at
the cruel world, the longing for peace and shelter; the desire to smooth his sister's way,
which had led him to devote himself in heart to the cloister, though never permitted openly
to pledge himself.  Then the discovery that the world was less thorny than he had expected;
the allurement of royal favour and greatness; the charm of amusement, and activity in recovered
health; the cowardly dread of scorn, leading him not merely into the secular life, but into
the gradual dropping of piety and devotion; the actual share he had taken in forbidden diversions;
his attempts at plunder; his ill-will to King Henry; and, above all, his persecution of Esclairmonde,
which he now regarded as sacrilegious; and he even told how he lay under a half engagement
to Countess Jaqueline to return alone to the Court, and bear his part in the forcible marriage
she projected.

He told all, with no extenuation; nay, rather with such outbursts of opprobrium on himself,
that Dr. Bennet could hardly understand of what positive evils he had been guilty; and he ended
by entreating that the almoner would at once hear his vow to become a Benedictine monk, ere--

But Dr. Bennet would not listen.  He silenced the boy by saying he had no more right to hear
it than Malcolm as yet to make it.  Nay, that inner dedication, for which Malcolm yearned as
a sacred bond to his own will, the priest forbade.  It was no moment to make such a promise
in his present mood, when he did not know himself.  If broken, he would only be adding sin
to sin; nor was Malcolm, with all his errors fresh upon him, in any state to dedicate himself
worthily.  The errors--which in Ralf Percy, or in most other youths, might have seemed slight--were
heavy stains on one who, like Malcolm, had erred, not thoughtlessly, but with a conscience
of them all, in wilful abandonment of his higher principles. On these the chaplain mostly dwelt;
on these he tried to direct Malcolm's repentance; and, finding that the youth was in perpetual
extremes of remorse, and that his abject submission was a sort of fresh form of wilfulness,
almost passion at being forbidden to bind himself by the vow, he told him that the true token
of repentance was steadiness and constancy; and that therefore his absolution must be deferred
until he had thus shown that his penitence was true and sincere--by perseverance, firstly,
in the devotions that the chaplain appointed for him, and, secondly, in meeting whatever temptations
might be in store for him.  Nay, the cruel chaplain absolutely forbade the white, excited,
eager boy to spend half the night in chapel over the first division of these penitential psalms
and prayers, but on his obedience sent him at once to his bed.

Malcolm could have torn his hair.  Unabsolved!  Still under the weight of sin; still unpledged;
still on dangerous ground; still left to a secular life--and that without Esclairmonde!  Why
had he not gone to a French Benedictine, who would have caught at his vow, and crowned his
penitence with some magnificent satisfying asceticism?

Yet something in his heart, something in the father's own authority, made him submit; and in
a tumult of feeling, more wretched even than before his confession, he threw himself on his
bed, expecting to charge the tossings of a miserable night on Dr. Bennet, and to creep down
barefoot to the chapel in the early morning to begin his Misereres.

Instead of which, his first wakening was in broad daylight, by King James standing over him.
'Malcolm,' he said, 'I have answered for you that you are discreet and trusty.  A message of
weight is to be placed in your hands.  Come with me to the Duke of Bedford.'

Malcolm could only dress himself, and obediently follow to the chamber, where sat the Duke,
his whole countenance looking as if the light of his life had gone out, but still steadfastly
set to bear the heavy burden that had been placed on his shoulders.

He called Malcolm to him, and showed him a ring, asking whether he knew it.

'The King's signet--King Harry's,' said Malcolm.

He was then reminded how, in the winter, Henry had lost the ring, and after having caused another
to be made at Paris, had found it in the finger of his gauntlet.  Very few knew of the existence
of this duplicate.  Bedford himself was not aware of it till it had been mentioned by James
and Lord Fitzhugh the chamberlain; and then search was made for it, without effect, so that
it evidently had been left with the Queen.  These private signets were of the utmost importance,
far more so than even the autograph; for, though signatures were just acquiring individuality
enough to become the best authentication, yet up to this very reign the seal was the only valid
affirmation.  Such signets were always destroyed on a prince's death, and it was of the utmost
importance that the duplicate should not be left in Queen Catherine's hands--above all, while
she was with her mother and her party, who were quite capable of affixing it to forgeries.

Bedford, James, and Fitzhugh were all required at Vincennes; the two latter at the lying-in-state
in the chapel.  Most of the other trusty nobles had repaired to the army; and, indeed, Bedford,
aware of the terrible jealousies that were sure to break out in the headless realm, did not
choose to place a charge that might hereafter prove invidious in the hands of any Englishman,
or to extend the secret any further than could be helped; since who could tell what suspicion
might not be thus cast on any paper sealed by Henry?

In his perplexity, James had suggested young Malcolm, who had assisted in the search for the
lost ring, and been witness to its discovery; and whom he could easily send as bearer of his
condolences to the widowed Queen; who had indeed the entree of the palace, but had no political
standing, was neither French nor English, and had shown himself discreet enough with other
secrets to deserve confidence.

Bedford caught at the proposal.  And Malcolm now received orders to take horse, with a sufficient
escort, and hasten at once to Paris, where he should try if possible to obtain the ring from
the Queen herself; but if he could not speak to her in private, he might apply to Sir Lewis
Robsart.  No other person was to be informed of the real object of the mission, and he was
to get back to Vincennes as soon as possible.

Neither prince could understand the scared, distressed looks with which Malcolm listened to
commands showing so much confidence in a youth of his years.  They encouraged him by assurances
that Sir Lewis Robsart, who had a curious kind of authority, half fatherly, half nurselike,
over the Queen, would manage all for him.  And King James, provoked by his reluctance, began,
as they left Bedford's chamber, to chide him for ungraciousness in the time of distress, and
insensibility to the honour conferred on him.

'Nay, nay,' disclaimed Malcolm, almost ready to weep, 'but I have a whole world of penance!'

'Penance!  Plague on the boy's perverseness!  What penance is so good as obedience?' said James,
much displeased.

'Sir, Sir,' panted Malcolm, ''tis not only that.  Could any one but be sent in my stead?  My
returning alone is what Madame of Hainault bade--for--for some scheme on--'

His voice was choked, and his face was burning.

'Is the lad gone daft?' cried James, in great anger.  'If Madame of Hainault were so lost to
decorum as to hatch such schemes at such a moment, I trow you are neither puppet nor fool in
her hands for her to do what she will with.  I'll have no more fooling!'

Malcolm could only obey.

In the brief space while the horses were preparing, and he had to equip and take food, he sped
in search of Dr. Bennet, hoping, he knew not what, from his interference, or trusting, at any
rate, to explain his own sudden absence.

But, looking into the chapel, he recognized the chaplain as one of the leading priests in one
of the lengthiest of masses, which was just commencing.  It was impossible to wait for the
conclusion.  He could but kneel down, find himself too much hurried and confused to recollect
any prayer, then dash back again to don his riding-gear, before King James should miss him,
and be angered again.

'Unabsolved--unvowed!' he thought.  'Sent off thither against my will. Whatever may fall out,
it is no fault of mine!'

CHAPTER XIV: THE TROTH FLIGHT

Trembling and awed, the ladies waited at Paris.  It was well known how the King's illness must
end.  No one, save the Queen, professed to entertain any hope of his amendment; but Catherine
appeared to be too lethargic to allow herself to be roused to any understanding of his danger;
and as to the personal womanly tendance of wife to suffering husband, she seemed to have no
notion of it.  Her mother had never been supposed to take the slightest care of King Charles;
and Catherine, after her example, regarded the care either of husband or child as no more required
of a royal lady than of a queen bee.

The little Lady Montagu, as Alice was now to be called, who had been scheming that her Richard
should be wounded just enough to learn to call her his good little nurse-tender, was dreadfully
scandalized, as indeed were wives of more experience, when they found all their endeavours
to make their mistress understand how ill the King really was, and how much he wished for her,
fall upon uncomprehending ears, and at last were desired by her mother Isabeau not to torment
the poor Queen, or they would make her ill.

'Make her ill!  I wish I could!' muttered Lady Warwick, as she left the presence-chamber; 'but
it is like my little Nan telling her apple-stock baby that all her kin were burnt alive in
one castle.  She heeds as much!'

But when at late evening Sir Lewis Robsart rode up to the hotel, and a hush went along with
him, for all knew that he would never have left his King alive, Catherine's composure gave
way.  She had not imagination enough for apprehension of what was out of sight; but when she
knew that she had lost her king, to whom she had owed the brief splendour of an otherwise dreary
and neglected life, she fell into a passion of cries and tears, even at the mere sight of Sir
Lewis, and continued to bewail her king, her lord, her husband, her light, her love, with the
violence of an utterly unexpected bereavement.

But while her shrieks and sobs were rending the air, a hoarse voice gasped out, 'What say you?
My son Henri dead!' and white and ghastly, the gray hair hanging wildly from the temples, the
eyes roaming with the wistful gaze of the half insane, poor King Charles stood among them,
demanding, 'Tell me I am sick again!  Tell me it is but one of my delusions!  So brave, so
strong, so lively, so good to the poor old man! My son Henri cannot die!  That is for the old,
the sick!'

And when Sir Lewis with gentle words had made him understand the truth, he covered his face
with his hands, and staggered away, led by his attendant knight, still murmuring in a dazed
way, 'Mon fils Henri, mon bon fils Henri--most loving of all my children!'

In truth, neither of his own sons had been thus mourned; nor had any person shown the poor
crazed monarch the uniform deferential consideration he had received from Henry.  He crept
back to his own chamber, and for many days hardly spoke, save to moan for his bon fils Henri,
scarcely tasting food, and pining away day by day.  Those who had watched the likeness between
the heroes of Monmouth and of Macedon, saw the resemblance carried out; for as the aged Persian
queen perished away from grief for the courteous and gentle Alexander, so now the king of the
conquered realm was actually wasting to death with mourning for his frank and kindly bon fils
Henri.

As part of royal etiquette, Catherine betook herself to her bed, in a chamber hung with black,
the light of day excluded, and ranks of wax tapers shedding a lugubrious light upon rows of
gentlemen and ladies who had to stand there on duty, watching her as the mourners watched the
King, though her lying-in-state was not always as silent; for though, there was much time spent
in slumber, Catherine sometimes would indulge in a good deal of subdued prattle with her mother,
or her more confidential attendants.  But at other times, chiefly when first awaking, or else
when anything had crossed her will, she would fall into agonies of passionate grief--weeping,
shrieking, and rending her hair with almost a frenzy of misery, as she called herself utterly
desolate, and screamed aloud for her king to return to her.

She was quite past the management of her English ladies on these occasions; and her mother,
declaring that she was becoming crazed like her father, declined having anything to do with
her.  Even Sir Lewis Robsart she used to spurn aside; and nothing ever seemed effectual, but
for the Demoiselle de Luxemburg, with her full sweet voice, and force of will in all the tenderness
of strength, caressingly to hold her still, talk to her almost as to an infant, and sing away
her violence with some long low ditty--sometimes a mere Flemish lullaby, sometimes a Church
hymn.  As Lady Warwick said, when the ladies were all wearied out with the endeavour to control
their Queen's waywardness and violence, and it sighed away like a departing tempest before
Esclairmonde, 'It was as great a charity as ever ministering as a St. Katherine's bedeswoman
could be.'

To the young Lady Montagu, the blow was astounding.  It was the first realization that a great
man could die, a great support be taken away; and, child-like, she moved about, bewildered
and stunned, in the great household on which the dark cloud had descended--clinging to Esclairmonde
as if to protect her from she knew not what; anything dreadful might happen, with the King
dead, and her father and husband away.

Alas! poor Esclairmonde!  She was in much more real danger herself, as came to the bride's
mind presently, when, in the midst of her lamentations, she exclaimed, 'And, ah, Clairette!
there ends his goodly promise about the sisterhood of good works at Paris.'

Esclairmonde responded with a gesture of sorrow, and the murmur of the 'In principibus non
confide' that is so often the echo of disappointment.

'And what will you do?' continued Alice, watching her anxiously, as her face, turning very
pale, was nevertheless uplifted towards heaven.

'Strive to trust more in God, less in princes,' she breathed forth, clasping her hands, and
compressing her lips.

'Nay, but does it grieve you so intensely?' asked Alice.  'Mayhap--'

'Alas! sweet one!  I would that the fall of this device seemed like to be the worst effect
to me of your good king's death.  Pray for me, Alice, for now no earthly power stands between
me and my kinsmen's will.'

Alice cried aloud, 'Nay, nay, lady, we are English still.  There are my father; my lord, the
Duke of Bedford; they will not suffer any wrong to be done.'

'Hush, Alice.  None of them hath any power to aid me.  Even good King Henry had no legal power
to protect me; only he was so great, so strong in word or deed, that no man durst do before
him what he declared a shame and a sin.  Now it will be expedient more than ever that nothing
be done by the English to risk offending the Duke of Burgundy.  None will dare withhold me;
none ought to dare, for they act not for themselves, but for their infant charge; and my countess
is weary of me.  There is nothing to prevent my uncles from taking me away with them; or--'

'Nothing!' cried Alice.  'It cannot be!  Oh, that my father were here!'

'He could do nothing for me.'

'A convent!'

'No convent here could keep me against the Bishop of Therouenne.'

Alice wrung her hands.  'Oh, it cannot--shall not be!'

'No, Alice, I do not believe it will be.  I have that confidence in Him to whom I have given
myself, that I do not believe He will permit me to be snatched from Him, so long as my will
does not consent.'  Esclairmonde faltered a moment, as she remembered her wavering, crossed
her hands on her breast, and ejaculated, 'May He deal mercifully with me!  Yet it may be at
an exceeding cost--at that of all my cherished schemes, of all that was pride and self-seeking.
Alice, look not so terrified.  Nothing can be done immediately, or with violence, in this first
mourning for the King; and I trust to make use of the time to disguise me, and escape to England,
where I may keep my vow as anchoress, or as lay sister.  Let me keep that, and my self-exalting
schemes shall be all put by!'

The question whether this should be to England, or to the southern parts of France held by
the Armagnacs, remained for decision, as opportunity should direct: Alice constantly urging
her own scheme of carrying her friend with her as her tire-woman, if, as seemed likely, she
were sent home; and Esclairmonde refusing to consent to anything that might bring the bride
into troubles with her father and husband; and the debates being only interrupted when the
Lady Montagu was required to take her turn among the weary ladies-in-waiting around Catherine's
state bed.

Whenever she was not required to control, console, or persuade the Queen, Esclairmonde spent
most of her time in a chamber apart from the chatter of Jaqueline's little court, where she
was weaving, in the delicate point- lace work she had learnt in her Flemish convent, an exquisite
robe, such as were worn by priests at Mass.  She seldom worked, save for the poor; but she
longed to do some honour to the one man who would have promoted her nearly vanished scheme,
and this work she trusted to offer for a vestment to be used at his burial Mass.  Many a cherished
plan was resigned, many an act of self-negation uttered, as she bent over the dainty web; many
an entreaty breathed, that her moment's wandering of fancy might not be reckoned against her,
but that she might be aided to keep the promise of her infancy, and devote herself undivided
to the direct service of God and of His poor, be it in ever so humble a station.

Here she sat alone, when steps approached, the door opened, and of all people he stood before
her whom she least wished to see, the young Lord of Glenuskie.

Amazed as she was, she betrayed no confusion, and merely rose, saying quietly, 'This is an
error.  I will show you Madame's apartment.'

But Malcolm, who had begun by looking far more confused than she, cried earnestly, 'One moment,
lady.  I came not willingly; the Countess sent for me to her.  But since I am here--listen
while Heaven gives me strength to say it--I will trouble you never again.  I am come to a better
mind.  Oh, forgive me!'

'What are you here then for, Sir?' said Esclairmonde, with the same defensive dignity.

'My king sent me, against my will, on a mission to the Queen,' panted Malcolm.  'I am forced
to wait here; or, lady, I should have been this day doing penance for my pursuit of you.  Verily
I am a penitent.  Mayhap Heaven will forgive me, if you will.'

'If I understand you aright, it is well,' said Esclairmonde, still gravely and doubtfully.

'It is so indeed,' protested Malcolm, with a terrible wrench to his heart, yet a sensation
of freeing his conscience.  'Fear me no longer now.  After that which I saw at Vincennes, I
know what it is to be on the straight path, and--oh! what it is to have fallen from it.  How
could I dream of dragging you down to be with one so unworthy, becoming more worthless each
day?  Lady, if I never see you more, pardon me, pray for me, as a saint for a poor outcast
on earth!'

'Hush,' said Esclairmonde; 'I am no saint--only a maiden pledged.  But, Sir, I thank you fervently.
You have lightened my heart of one of my fears.'

Malcolm could not but be cheered by being for once spoken to by her in so friendly a tone;
and he added, gravely and resolutely: 'My suit, then, I yield up, lady--yield for ever.  Am
I permitted once to kiss that fair and holy hand, as I resign my presumptuous hopes thereof?'

'Mayhap it were wiser left undone,' said Esclairmonde.  'My mind misgives me that this meeting
is planned to bring us into trouble.  Farewell, my lord.'

As she had apprehended, the door was flung back, and Countess Jaqueline rushed in, clasping
her hands in an affectation of merry surprise, as she cried, 'Here they are!  See, Monseigneur!
No keeping doves apart!'

'Madame,' said Esclairmonde, turning on her with cold dignity, 'I have been thanking Monsieur
de Glenuskie for having resigned the suit that I always declared to be in vain.'

