"Your kindness, or else that of Mrs. Woodford, carries you far, sir," answered his host.

"What?  Is my nephew and namesake so peevish a scapegrace?" demanded the visitor.

On which anecdotes broke forth from all quarters.  Peregrine had greased the already slippery
oak stairs, had exchanged Oliver's careful exercise for a ribald broadsheet, had filled Mr.
Horncastle's pipe with gunpowder, and mixed snuff with the chocolate specially prepared for
the peculiar godly guest Dame Priscilla Waller.  Every one had something to adduce, even the
serving-men behind the chairs; and if Oliver and Robert did not add their quota, it was because
absolute silence at meals was the rule for nonage. However, the subject was evidently distasteful
to the father, who changed the conversation by asking his brother questions about the young
Prince of Orange and the Grand Pensionary De Witt.  For the gentleman had been acting as English
attache to the Embassy at the Hague, whence he had come on affairs of State to London, and
after being knighted by Charles, had newly arrived at the old home, which he had scarcely seen
since his brother's marriage.  Dr. Woodford enjoyed his conversation, and his information on
foreign politics, and the Major, though now and then protesting, was evidently proud of his
brother.

When grace had been pronounced by the chaplain the lady withdrew to her parlour, the two boys,
each with an obeisance and request for permission, departed for an hour's recreation, and Dr.
Woodford intimated that he wished for some conversation with his host respecting the boy Peregrine.

"Let us discuss it here," said Major Oakshott, turning towards a small table set in the deep
bay window, and garnished with wine, fruit, and long slender glasses.  "Good Mr. Horncastle,"
he added, as he motioned his guest to one of the four seats, "is with me in all that concerns
my children, and I desire my brother's counsel respecting the untoward lad with whom it has
pleased Heaven to afflict me."

When the glasses had been filled with claret Dr. Woodford uttered a diplomatic compliment on
the healthful and robust appearance of the eldest and youngest sons, and asked whether any
cause had been assigned for the difference between them and the intermediate brother.

"None, sir," returned the father with a sigh, "save the will of the Almighty to visit us for
our sins with a son who has thus far shown himself one of the marred vessels doomed to be broken
by the potter. It may be in order to humble me and prove me that this hath been laid upon me."

The chaplain groaned acquiescence, but there was vexation in the brother's face.

"Sir," said the Doctor, "it is my opinion and that of my sister-in- law, an excellent, discreet,
and devout woman, that the poor child would give you more cause for hope if the belief had
not become fixed in his mind that he is really and truly a fairy elf--yes, in very sooth--a
changeling!"

All the auditors broke out into exclamations that it was impossible that a boy of fourteen
could entertain so absurd an idea, and the tutor evidently thought it a fresh proof of depravity
that he should thus have tried to deceive his kind hosts.

In proof that Peregrine veritably believed it himself, Dr. Woodford related what he had witnessed
on Midsummer night, mentioning how in delirium the boy had evidently believed himself in fairyland,
and how disappointed he had been, on regaining his senses, to find himself on common earth;
telling also of the adventure with the King, which Sir Christopher Wren had described to him,
but of which Major Oakshott was unaware, though it explained the offer of the pageship.  He
was a good deal struck by these revelations, proving misery that he had never suspected, though,
as he said, he had often pleaded, "Why will ye revolt more and more? ye will be stricken more
and more."

"Have you ever sought his confidence?" asked the travelled brother, a question evidently scarcely
understood, for the reply was, "I have always required of my sons to speak the truth, nor have
they failed of late years save this unfortunate Peregrine."

"And," said Sir Peregrine, "if the unlucky lad actually supposes himself to be no human being,
admonitions and chastisements would naturally be vain."

"I cannot believe it," exclaimed the Major.  "'Tis true, as I now remember, I once came on
a couple of beldames, my wife's nurse and another, who has since been ducked for witchcraft,
and found them about to flog the babe with nettles, and lay him in the thorn hedge because
he was a sickly child, whom, forsooth, they took to be a changeling; but I forbade the profane
folly to be ever again mentioned in my household, nor did I ever hear thereof again."

"There are a good many more things mentioned in a household, brother, than the master is wont
to hear of," remarked Sir Peregrine.

Dr. Woodford then begged as a personal favour for an individual examination of the family and
servants on their opinion.  The master was reluctant thus, as he expressed it, to go a-fooling,
but his brother backed the Doctor up, and further prevented a general assembly to put one another
to shame, but insisted on the witnesses being called in one by one.  Oliver, the first summoned,
was beginning to be somewhat less overawed by his father than in his earlier boyhood.  To the
inquiry what he thought of his brother Peregrine, he made a tentative sort of reply, that he
was a strange fellow, who never could keep out of disgrace.

"That is not the question," said his father.  "I am almost ashamed to speak it!  Do you--nay,
have you ever supposed him to be a--" he really could not bring out the word.

"A changeling, sir?" returned Oliver.  "I do not believe so now, knowing that it is impossible,
but as a child I always did."

"Who durst possess you with so foolish and profane a falsehood?"

"Every one, sir.  I cannot recollect the time when I did not as entirely deem Peregrine a changeling
elf as that Robin was my own brother.  He believes so himself."

"You have never striven to disabuse him."

"Indeed, sir, he would scarce have listened to me had I done go; besides, to tell the truth,
it has only been of late, since I have been older, and have studied more, that I have come
to perceive the folly of it."

Major Oakshott groaned, and bade him call Robert without saying wherefore.  The little fellow
came in, somewhat frightened, and when asked the question that had been put to his elder, his
face lighted up, and he exclaimed, "Oh, have they brought him back again?"

"Whom?"

"Our real brother, sir, who was carried off to fairyland!"

"Who told you so, Robert?"

He looked puzzled, and said, "Sir, they all know it.  Molly Owens, that was his foster-mother,
saw the fairies bear him off on a broomstick up the chimney."

"Robert, no lying!"

The boy was only restrained from tears by fear of his father, and just managed to say, "'Tis
what they all say, and Perry knows."

"Knows!" muttered Major Oakshott in despair, but the uncle, drawing Robin towards him, extracted
that Perry had been seen flying out of the loft window, when he had been locked up--Robin had
never seen it himself, but the maids had often done so.  Moreover, there was proof positive,
in the mark on Oliver's head, where he had nearly killed himself by tumbling downstairs, being
lured by the fairies while they stole away the babe.

The Major could not listen with patience.  "A boy of that age to repeat such blasphemous nonsense!"
he exclaimed; and Robert, restraining with difficulty his sobs of terror, was dismissed to
fetch the butler.

The old Ironside who now appeared would not avouch his own disbelief in the identity of Master
Peregrine, being, as he said, a man who had studied his Bible, listened to godly preachers,
and seen the world; but he had no hesitation in declaring that almost every other soul in the
household believed in it as firmly as in the Gospel, certainly all the women, and probably
all the men, nor was there any doubt that the young gentleman conducted himself more like a
goblin than the son of pious Christian parents.  In effect both the clergyman and the Diplomate
could not help suspecting that in other company the worthy butler's disavowal of all share
in the superstition might have been less absolute.

"After this," said Major Oakshott with a sigh, "it seems useless to carry the inquiry farther."

"What says my sister Oakshott?" inquired Sir Peregrine.  "She!  Poor soul, she is too feeble
to be fretted," said her husband.  "She has never been the same woman since the Fire of London,
and it would be vain to vex her with questions.  She would be of one mind while I spoke to
her, and another while her women were pouring their tales into her ear.  Methinks I now understand
why she has always seemed to shrink from this unfortunate child, and to fear rather than love him."

"Even so, sir," added the tutor.  "Much is explained that I never before understood.  The question
is how to deal with him under this fresh light.  I will, so please your honour, assemble the
family this very night, and expound to them that such superstitions are contrary to the very
word of Scripture."

"Much good will that do," muttered the knight.

"I should humbly suggest," put in Dr. Woodford, "that the best hope for the poor lad would
be to place him where these foolish tales were unknown, and he could start afresh on the same
terms with other youths."

"There is no school in accordance with my principles," said the Squire gloomily.  "Godly men
who hold the faith as I do are inhibited by the powers that be from teaching in schools."

"And," said his brother, "you hold these principles as more important than the causing your
son to be bred up a human being instead of being pointed at and rendered hopeless as a demon."

"I am bound to do so," said the Major.

"Surely," said Dr. Woodford, "some scholar might be found, either here or in Holland, who might
share your opinions, and could receive the boy without incurring penalties for opening a school
without license."

"It is a matter for prayer and consideration," said Major Oakshott. "Meantime, reverend sir,
I thank you most heartily for the goodness with which you have treated my untoward son, and
likewise for having opened my eyes to the root of his freakishness."

The Doctor understood this as dismissal, and asked for his horse, intimating, however, that
he would gladly keep the boy till some arrangement had been decided upon.  Then he rode home
to tell his sister-in-law that he had done his best, and that he thought it a fortunate conjunction
that the travelled brother had been present.

CHAPTER VI: A RELAPSE

"A tell-tale in their company
   They never could endure,
And whoso kept not secretly
   Their pranks was punished sure.

BISHOP CORBETT.

Several days passed, during which there could be no doubt that Peregrine Oakshott knew how
to behave himself, not merely to grown- up people, but to little Anne, who had entirely lost
her dread of him, and accepted him as a playfellow.  He was able to join the family meals,
and sit in the pleasant garden, shaded by the walls of the old castle, as well as by its own
apple-trees, and looking out on the little bay in front, at full tide as smooth and shining
as a lake.

There, while Anne did her task of spinning or of white seam, Mrs. Woodford would tell the children
stories, or read to them from the Pilgrim's Progress, a wonderful romance to both.  Peregrine,
still tamed by weakness, would lie on the grass at her feet, in a tranquil bliss such as he
had never known before, and his fairy romances to Anne were becoming mitigated, when one day
a big coach came along the road from Fareham, with two boys riding beside it, escorting Lady
Archfield and Mistress Lucy.

The lady was come to study Mrs. Woodford's recipe for preserved cherries, the young people,
Charles, Lucy, and their cousin Sedley, now at home for the summer holidays, to spend an afternoon
with Mistress Anne.

Great was Lady Archfield's surprise at finding that Major Oakshott's cross-grained slip of
a boy was still at Portchester.

"If you were forced to take him in for very charity when he was hurt," she said, "I should
have thought you would have been rid of him as soon as he could leave his bed."

"The road to Oakwood is too rough for broken ribs as yet," said Mrs. Woodford, "nor is the
poor boy ready for discipline."

"Ay, I fancy that Major Oakshott is a bitter Puritan in his own house; but no discipline could
be too harsh for such a boy as that, according to all that I hear," said her ladyship, "nor
does he look as if much were amiss with him so far as may be judged of features so strange
and writhen."

"He is nearly well, but not yet strong, and we are keeping him here till his father has decided
on what is best for him."

"You even trust him with your little maid!  And alone!  I wonder at you, madam."

"Indeed, my lady, I have seen no harm come of it.  He is gentle and kind with Anne, and I think
she softens him."

Still Mrs. Woodford would gladly not have been bound to her colander and preserving-pan in
her still-room, where her guest's housewifely mind found great scope for inquiry and comment,
lasting for nearly two hours.

When at length the operations were over, and numerous little pots of jam tied up as specimens
for the Archfield family to taste at home, the children were not in sight.  No doubt, said
Mrs. Woodford, they would be playing in the castle court, and the visitor accompanied her thither
in some anxiety about broken walls and steps, but they were not in sight, nor did calls bring them.

The children had gone out together, Anne feeling altogether at ease and natural with congenial
playmates.  Even Sedley's tortures were preferable to Peregrine's attentions, since the first
were only the tyranny of a graceless boy, the other gave her an indescribable sense of strangeness
from which these ordinary mundane comrades were a relief and protection.

However, Charles and Sedley rushed off to see a young colt in which they were interested, and
Lucy, in spite of her first shrinking, found Peregrine better company than she could have expected,
when he assisted in swinging her and Anne by turns under the old ash tree.

When the other two were seen approaching, the swinging girl hastily sprang out, only too well
aware what Sedley's method of swinging would be.  Then as the boys came up followed inquiries
why Peregrine had not joined them, and jests in schoolboy taste ensued as to elf- locks in
the horses' manes, and inquiries when he had last ridden to a witch's sabbath.  Little Anne,
in duty bound, made her protest, but this only incited Charles to add his word to the teasing,
till Lucy joined in the laugh.

By and by, as they loitered along, they came to the Doctor's little boat, and there was a proposal
to get in and rock.  Lucy refused, out of respect for her company attire, and Anne could not
leave her, so the two young ladies turned away with arms round each other's waists, Lucy demonstratively
rejoicing to be quit of the troublesome boys.

Before they had gone far an eldritch shout of laughter was responded to by a burst of furious
dismay and imprecation.  The boat with the two boys was drifting out to sea, and Peregrine
capering wildly on the shore, but in another instant he had vanished into the castle.

Anne had presence of mind enough to rush to the nearest fisherman's cottage, and send him out
to bring them back, and it was at this juncture that the two mothers arrived on the scene.
There was little real danger.  A rope was thrown and caught, and after about half an hour of
watching they were safely landed, but the tide had ebbed so far that they had to take off their
shoes and stockings and wade through the mud.  They were open-mouthed against the imp who had
enticed them to rock in the boat, then in one second had cut the painter, bounded out, and
sent them adrift with his mocking 'Ho! ho! ho!'  Sedley Archfield clenched his fists, and gazed
round wildly in search of the goblin to chastise him soundly, and Charles was ready to rush
all over the castle in search of him.

"Two to one!" cried Anne, "and he so small; you would never be so cowardly."

"As if he were like an honest fellow," said Charley.  "A goblin like that has his odds against
a dozen of us."

"I'd teach him, if I could but catch him," cried Sedley.

"I told you," said Anne, "that he would be good if you would let him alone and not plague him."

"Now, Anne," said Charles, as he sat putting on his stockings, "how could I stand being cast
off for that hobgoblin, that looks as if he had been cut out of a root of yew with a blunt
knife, and all crooked!  I that always was your sweetheart, to see you consorting with a mis-shapen
squinting Whig of a Nonconformist like that."

"Nonconformist!  I'll Nonconform him indeed," added Sedley.  "I wish I had the wringing of
his neck."

"Now is not that hard!" said Anne; "a poor lad who has been very sick, and that every one baits
and spurns."

"Serve him right," said Sedley; "he shall have more of the same sauce!"

"I think he has cast his spell on Anne," added Charles, "or how can she stand up for him?"

"My mamma bade me be kind to him."

"Kind!  I would as lief be kind to a toad!" put in Lucy.

"To see you kind to him makes me sick," exclaimed Charles.  "You see what comes of it."

"It did not come of my kindness, but of your unkindness," reasoned Anne.

"I told you so," said Charles.  "You would have been best pleased if we had been carried out
to sea and drowned!"

Anne burst into tears and disavowed any such intention, and Charles was protesting that he
would only forgive her on condition of her never showing any kindness to Peregrine again, when
a sudden shower of sand and pebbles descended, one of them hitting Sedley pretty sharply on
the ear.  The boys sprang up with a howl of imprecation and vengeance, but no one was to be
seen, only 'Ho! ho! ho!' resounded from the battlements.  Off they rushed headlong, but the
nearest door was in a square tower a good way off, and when they reached it the door defied
their efforts of frantic rage, whilst another shower descended on them from above, accompanied
by the usual shout.  But while they were dashing off in quest of another entrance they were
met by a servant sent to summon them to return home.  Coach and horses were at the door, and
Lady Archfield was in haste to get them away, declaring that she should not think their lives
safe near that fiendish monster.  Considering that Sedley was nearly twice as big as Peregrine,
and Charles a strong well-grown lad, this was a tribute to his preternatural powers.

Very unwillingly they went, and if Lady Archfield had not kept a strict watch from her coach
window, they would certainly have turned back to revenge the pranks played on them.  The last
view of them showed Sedley turning round shaking his whip and clenching his teeth in defiance.
Mrs. Woodford was greatly concerned, especially as Peregrine could not be found and did not
appear at supper.

"Had he run away to sea?" the usual course of refractory lads at Portchester, but for so slight
a creature only half recovered it did not seem probable.  It was more likely that he had gone
home, and that Mrs. Woodford felt as somewhat a mortifying idea.  However, on looking into
his chamber, as she sought her own, she beheld him in bed, with his face turned into the pillow,
whether asleep or feigning slumber there was no knowing.

Later, she heard sounds that induced her to go and look at him.  He was starting, moaning,
and babbling in his sleep.  But with morning all his old nature seemed to have returned.

There was a hedgehog in Anne's bowl of milk, Mrs. Woodford's poultry were cackling hysterically
at an unfortunate kitten suspended from an apple tree and let down and drawn up among them.
The three- legged stool of the old waiting-woman 'toppled down headlong' as though by the hands
of Puck, and even on Anne's arms certain black and blue marks of nails were discovered, and
when her mother examined her on them she only cried and begged not to be made to answer.

And while Dr. Woodford was dozing in his chair as usual after the noonday dinner Mrs. Woodford
actually detected a hook suspended from a horsehair descending in the direction of his big
horn spectacles, and quietly moving across to frustrate the attempt, she unearthed Peregrine
on a chair angling from behind the window curtain.

She did not speak, but fixed her calm eyes on him with a look of sad, grave disappointment
as she wound up the line.  In a few seconds the boy had thrown himself at her feet, rolling
as if in pain, and sobbing out, "'Tis all of no use!  Let me alone."

Nevertheless he obeyed the hushing gesture of her hand, and held his breath, as she led him
out to the garden-seat, where they had spent so many happy quiet hours.  Then he flung himself
down and repeated his exclamation, half piteous, half defiant.  "Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
It has me!  It is all of no use."

"What has you, my poor child?"

"The evil spirit.  You will have it that I'm not one of--one of them--so it must be as my father
says, that I am possessed--the evil spirit.  I was at peace with you--so happy--happier than
ever I was before--and now--those boys.  It has me again--I could not help it-- I've even hurt
her--Mistress Anne.  Let me alone--send me home--to be scorned, and shunned, and brow-beaten--and
as bad as ever--then at least she will be safe from me."

All this came out between sobs such that Mrs. Woodford could not attempt to speak, but she
kept her hand on him, and at last she said, when he could hear her:  "Every one of us has to
fight with an evil spirit, and when we are not on our guard he is but too apt to take advantage
of us."

The boy rather sullenly repeated that it was of no use to fight against his.

"Indeed!  Nay.  Were you ever so much grieved before at having let him have the mastery?"

"No--but no one ever was good to me before."

"Yes; all about you lived under a cruel error, and you helped them in it.  But if you had not
a better nature in you, my poor child, you would not be happy here and thankful for what we
can do for you."

"I was like some one else here," said Peregrine, picking a daisy to pieces, "but they stirred
it all up.  And at home I shall be just the same as ever I was."

She longed to tell him that there was hope of a change in his life, but she durst not till
it was more certain, so she said--

"There was One who came to conquer the evil spirit and the evil nature, and to give each one
of us the power to get the victory. The harder the victory, the more glorious!" and her eyes
sparkled at the thought.

He caught a moment's glow, then fell back.  "For those that are chosen," he said.

"You are chosen--you were chosen by your baptism.  You have the stirrings of good within you.
You can win and beat back the evil side of you in Christ's strength, if you will ask for it,
and go on in His might."

The boy groaned.  Mrs. Woodford knew that the great point with him would be to teach him to
hope and to pray, but the very name of prayer had been rendered so distasteful to him that
she scarce durst press the subject by name, and her heart sank at the thought of sending him
home again, but she was glad to be interrupted, and said no more.

At night, however, she heard sounds of moaning and stifled babbling that reminded her of his
times of delirium, and going into his room she found him tossing and groaning so that it was
manifestly a kindness to wake him; but her gentle touch occasioned a scream of terror, and
he started aside with open glassy eyes, crying, "Oh take me not!"

"My dear boy!  It is I.  Perry, do you not know me?"

"Oh, madam!" in infinite relief, "it is you.  I thought--I thought I was in elfland and that
they were paying me for the tithe to hell;" and he still shuddered all over.

"No elf--no elf, dear boy; a christened boy--God's child, and under His care;" and she began
the 121st Psalm.

"Oh, but I am not under His shadow!  The Evil One has had me again! He will have me.  Aren't
those his claws?  He will have me!"

"Never, my child, if you will cry to God for help.  Say this with me, 'Lord, be Thou my keeper.'"

He did so, and grew more quiet, and she began to repeat Dr. Ken's evening hymn, which had become
known in manuscript in Winchester. It soothed him, and she thought he was dropping off to sleep,
but no sooner did she move than he started with "There it is again--the black wings--the claws--"
then while awake, "Say it again!  Oh, say it again.  Fold me in your prayers--you can pray."
She went back to the verse, and he became quiet, but her next attempt to leave him caused an
entreaty that she would remain, nor could she quit him till the dawn, happily very early, was
dispelling the terrors of the night, and then, when he had himself murmured once--

"Let no ill dreams disturb my rest, No powers of darkness me molest,"

he fell asleep at last, with a softer look on his pinched face. Poor boy, would that verse
be his first step to prayer and deliverance from his own too real enemy?

CHAPTER VII: THE ENVOY

"I then did ask of her, her changeling child."

Midsummer Night's Dream.

Mrs. Woodford was too good a housewife to allow herself any extra rest on account of her vigil,
and she had just put her Juneating apple-tart into the oven when Anne rushed into the kitchen
with the warning that there was a grand gentleman getting off his horse at the gateway, and
speaking to her uncle--she thought it must be Peregrine's uncle.

Mrs. Woodford was of the same opinion, and asked where Peregrine was.

"Fast asleep in the window-seat of the parlour, mother!  I did not waken him, for he looked
so tired."

"That was right, my little maiden," said Mrs. Woodford, hastily washing her hands, taking off
her cooking apron, letting down her black gown from its pocket holes, and arranging her veil-like
widow's coif, after which, in full trim for company, she sallied out to the front door, to
avert, if possible, the wakening of the boy, whom she wished to appear to the best advantage.

She met in the garden her brother-in-law, and Sir Peregrine Oakshott, on being presented to
her, made such a bow as had seldom been seen in those parts, as he politely said that he was
the bearer of his brother's thanks for her care of his nephew.

Mrs. Woodford explained that the boy had had so bad a night that it would be well not to break
his present sleep, and invited the guest to walk in the garden or sit in the Doctor's study
or in the shade of the castle wall.

This last was what he preferred, and there they seated themselves, with a green slope before
them down to the pale gray creek, and the hill beyond lying in the summer sunshine.

"I have been long in coming hither," said the knight, "partly on account of letters on affairs
of State, and partly likewise because I desired to come alone, thinking that I might better
understand how it is with the lad without the presence of his father or brothers."

"I am very glad you have so done, sir."

"Then, madam, I entreat of you to speak freely and tell me your opinion of him without reserve.
You need not fear offence by speaking of the mode in which they have treated him at home. 
My poor brother has meant to do his duty, but he has stood so far aloof from his sons that
he has dealt with them in ignorance, and their mother, between sickliness and timidity, is
a mere prey to the folly of her gossips.  So speak plainly, madam, I beg of you."

Mrs. Woodford did speak plainly of the boy's rooted belief in his own elfish origin, and how
when arguing against it she had found the alternative even sadder and more hopeless, how well
he comported himself as long as he was treated as a human and rational being, but how the taunts
and jests of the young Archfields had renewed all the mischief, to the poor fellow's own remorse
and despair.

Sir Peregrine listened with only a word of comment, or question now and then, like a man of
the world well used to hearing all before he committed himself, and the description was only
just ended when the clang of the warning dinner-bell sounded and they rose; but as they were
passing the window of the dining-parlour a shriek of Anne's startled them all, and as they
sprang forward, Mrs. Woodford first, Peregrine's voice was heard, "No, no, Anne, don't be afraid.
It is for me he is come; I knew he would."

Something in a strange language was heard.  A black face with round eyes and gleaming teeth
might be seen bending forward.  Anne gave another shriek, but was heard crying, "No, no!  Get
away, sir.  He is our Lord Christ's!  He is!  You can't! you shan't have him."

And Anne was seen standing over Peregrine, who had dropped shuddering and nearly fainting on
the floor, while she stood valiantly up warding off the advance of him whom she took for the
Prince of Darkness, and in her excitement not at first aware of those who were come to her
aid at the window.  In one second the negro was saying something which his master answered,
and sent him off.  Mrs. Woodford had called out, "Don't be afraid, dear children. 'Tis Sir
Peregrine's black servant"; and the Doctor, "Foolish children!  What is this nonsense?"  A
moment or two more and they were in the room, Anne, all trembling, flying up to her mother
and hiding her face against her between fright and shame at not having thought of the black
servant, and the while they lifted up Peregrine, who, as he met his kind friend's eyes, said
faintly, "Is he gone?  Was it the dream again?"

"It was your uncle's blackamoor servant," said Mrs. Woodford.  "You woke up, and no wonder
you were startled.  Come with me, both of you, and make you ready for dinner."

Peregrine had rather collapsed than fainted, for he was able to walk with her hand on his shoulder,
and Sir Peregrine understood her sign and did not attempt to accost either of the children,
though as the Doctor took him to his chamber he expressed his admiration of the little maiden.

"That's the right woman," he said, "losing herself when there is one to guard.  Nay, sir, she
needs no excuse.  Such a spirit may well redeem a child's mistake."

Mrs. Woodford had reassured the children, so that they were more than half ashamed, though
scarce willing to reappear when she had made Peregrine wash his face and hands, smooth the
hair ruffled in his nap, freshly tying his little cravat and the ribbons on his shoes and at
his knees.  To make his hair into anything but elf locks, or to obliterate the bristly tuft
that made him like Riquet, was impossible, illness had made him additionally lean and sallow,
and his keen eyes, under their black contracted brows and dark lashes, showed all the more
the curious variation in their tints, and with an obliquity that varied according to the state
of the nerves.  There was a satirical mischievous cast in the mould of the face, though individually
the features were not amiss except for their thinness, and in fact the unpleasantness of the
expression had insensibly been softened during this last month, and there was nothing repellent,
though much that was quaint, in the slight figure, with the indescribably one-sided air, and
stature more befitting ten than fourteen years.  What would the visitor think of him?  The
Doctor called to him, "Come, Peregrine, your uncle, Sir Peregrine Oakshott, has been good enough
to come over to see you."

Peregrine had been well trained enough in that bitter school of home to make a correct bow,
though his feelings were betrayed by his yellow eye going almost out of sight.

"My namesake--your father will not let me say my godson," said Sir Peregrine smiling.  "We
ought to be good friends."

The boy looked up.  Perhaps he had never been greeted in so human a manner before, and there
was something confiding in the way those bony fingers of his rested a moment in his uncle's clasp.

"And this is your little daughter, madam, Peregrine's kind playmate? You may well be proud
of her valour," said the knight, while Anne made her courtesy, which he, in the custom of the
day, returned with a kiss; and she, who had been mortally ashamed of her terror, marvelled
at his praise.

The pair of fowls were by this time on the table, and good manners required silence on the
part of the children, but while Sir Peregrine explained that he had been appointed by his Majesty
as Envoy to the Elector of Brandenburg, and gave various interesting particulars of foreign
life, Mrs. Woodford saw that he was keeping a quiet watch over his nephew's habits at table,
and she was thankful that when unmoved by any wayward spirit of mischief they were quite beyond
reproach.  Something of the refinement of his poor mother's tastes must have been inherited
by Peregrine, for a certain daintiness of taste and habit had probably added to his discomforts
in the austere, not to say rude simplicity imposed upon the children of the family.

When the meal was over the children were dismissed to the garden, but bidden to keep within
call, in case Sir Peregrine should wish to see his nephew again.  The others repaired again
to the garden seat, with wine and fruit, but the knight begged Mrs. Woodford not to leave them.

"I am satisfied," he said.  "The boy shows gentle blood and breeding.  There was cause enough
for fright without cowardice, and there is not, what I was led to fear, such uncouthness or
ungainliness as should hinder me from having him with me."

"Oh, sir, is that your purpose?" cried the lady, almost as eagerly as if it had been high preferment
for her own child.

"I had thought thereon," said the envoy.  "There is reason that he should be my charge, and
my brother is like to give a ready consent, since he is sorely perplexed what to do with this
poor untoward slip."

"He would be less untoward were he happier," said Mrs. Woodford. "Indeed, sir, I do not think
you will repent it, if--" and she paused.

"What would you say, madam?"

"If only all your honour's household are absolutely ignorant of all these tales."

"That can well be, madam.  I have only one body-servant with me, this unlucky blackamoor, who
speaks nothing save Dutch.  I had already thought of leaving my grooms here, and returning
to London by sea, and this could well be done, and would cut off all channels of gossiping.
The boy is, the chaplain tells me, quick-witted, and a fair scholar for his years, and I can
find good schooling for him."

"When his head is able to bear it," said Mrs. Woodford.

"Truly, sir," added the Doctor, "you are doing a good work, and I trust that the boy will requite
you worthily."

