Transcriber's Note: In this text words
 surrounded by an underscore are underlined.

       *       *       *       *       *

 A BURIAL CAVE IN BAJA
 CALIFORNIA

 THE PALMER COLLECTION, 1887

 BY
 WILLIAM C. MASSEY AND CAROLYN M. OSBORNE

 ANTHROPOLOGICAL RECORDS
 Vol. Although the material was duly catalogued,
together with Dr. Palmer's notes, it has gone undescribed until the
present.

Dr. Robert F. Heizer called this collection to the attention of the senior author in 1948.
At that time the archaeology of Baja California was receiving emphasis at the University of
California because of the interest of the Associates in Tropical Biogeography, under the chairmanship
of Dr. C. O. Sauer. The late Professor E. W. Gifford, then Curator of the Museum of Anthropology
at the University of California, arranged with Dr. T. Dale Stewart of the United States National
Museum for a temporary study loan of the collection.

From the beginning, the division of labor between the authors has been primarily in terms of
"hard" and "soft" artifacts. Massey has handled the analyses of the imperishable artifacts,
their ethnographic and archaeological distributions, and the distributions of all artifacts
for Baja California. Mrs. Osborne has dealt with the netting, textiles, and cordage, and the
distribution of their techniques outside Baja California. Dr. Lila M. O'Neale began the analysis
of the textiles and netting and directed it until her untimely death. Professor E. W. Gifford
advised on the initial description of the imperishable artifacts.

This presentation has been delayed for many reasons, but the intervening years have added much
detailed information to the original data, both in the literature of anthropology and in subsequent
field work.

We are very grateful to friends, past and present, for their help and encouragement. We wish
to acknowledge the support of the Department of Anthropology, University of California, for
the photographs of the imperishable materials. Thanks are due Bob Ormsby, a University of Washington
student, for the drawings of netting. All other drawings and the maps were done by June M.
Massey. We acknowledge with thanks the assistance of Mrs. Gene Marquez, whose services as a
typist were provided by the Department of Biological Sciences of the University of Florida.

Above all we wish to dedicate this small work to the memories of two tireless teachers and
workers in anthropology--and in humanity: Dr. Lila M. O'Neale and Professor E. W. Gifford.

                                      W.C.M.
                                      C.M.O.

CONTENTS

                                    Page
 Preface                             iii
 Introduction                        339
 Ethnographic background             339
 The site                            341
 The burials                         341
 Artifacts                           341
   Stone                             341
   Bone                              342
   Shell                             342
   Midden potsherds                  343
   Wood                              343
   Cordage and textiles              345
     Simplest uses of prepared cord  345
     Haftings                        346
     Matting                         346
     Netting                         347
     Feathered apron or cape         349
     Human hair cape                 349
     Tump band                       350
     Cotton cloth                    351
 Summary and conclusions             351
 Bibliography                        352
 Explanation of plates               356

MAPS

 1. Baja California, showing
      location of Bahía de Los Angeles    339
 2. Linguistic groups of Baja California  340

FIGURES

 1. Detail of arrow or dart (139587),
      showing sting-ray spine point and
      cuplike depression at butt end      344
 2. Tie-twined matting technique          346
 3. Square-knot technique                 347
 4. Method of beginning hairnets and
      carrying nets                       347
 5. Detail of lower, fitted edge of
    hairnet                               348
 6. Detail of lower, gathered edge of
      carrying net                        348
 7. Then, as now,
there was a modest gold-mining operation at the bay. During his brief
stay at the mining station, Dr. Palmer excavated a small natural cave
which had been used by the Indians who were then extinct in that part
of the peninsula.

Seven partially disturbed skeletons and a variety of associated artifacts were collected and
deposited at the United States National Museum. The collection also included some potsherds
and shells from a midden on the shores of the bay. All of these items were listed and briefly
described in the Annual Report of the United States National Museum for the year 1888 (pp.
127-129).

Aside from the intrinsic value of presenting archaeological material from the little-known
area of Baja California, the Palmer Collection has particular importance because of its immediate
geographic source. Bahía de Los Angeles lies in that part of Baja California most accessible
to the Mexican mainland (map 1). Not only is there a relative physical closeness, but the Gulf
islands form here a series of "stepping stones" from Bahía de Los Angeles across to Tiburon
Island, home of the Seri, and thence to the adjacent mainland coast of Sonora.

The bay lies in the north-central desert region of the peninsula, where the environment is
especially difficult because of extreme aridity, scarcity of surface water, and the consequent
dearth of plant and animal life.

In view of these conditions, it has been suggested that the Seri may be descendants of people
who, hard-pressed by the environmental poverty of this section of Baja California, may have
moved across the Gulf to Tiburon Island and Sonora (Kroeber, 1931, pp. 5, 49-50). This hypothesis
has appealed to one California archaeologist, although at present there is insufficient evidence
from archaeology or ethnography either to support or to deny it (Rogers, 1945, p. 194). However,
the archaeological collection from Bahía de Los Angeles does indicate trade and some contact
across the Gulf.

In this paper emphasis is placed on the evaluation of the Palmer Collection with respect to
the known archaeology and ethnography of Baja California.

ETHNOGRAPHIC BACKGROUND

The Indians who inhabited the area surrounding Bahía de Los Angeles spoke the Borjeño language
of the Peninsular Yuman group, of the Yuman Family of languages (map 2). They were linguistically
and historically related to other Yuman-speaking groups of the peninsula and areas to the north
(Massey, 1949, p. 292). At the time of European contact these people--like all other aboriginal
groups on the peninsula--were hunters, fishers, and gatherers. The nearest agricultural tribes
were on the lower Colorado River.

Culturally, the Borjeño were like other Peninsular Yumans of relatively late prehistoric and
historic periods in central Baja California. However, they lived in more widely scattered groups
because of the greater scarcity of water in this part of the peninsula. Immediately to the
north of them at Bahía de San Luis Gonzaga--at approximately the 30th parallel--a decided break
with the Peninsular Yuman tradition occurred.

In 1746, during a voyage up the gulf coast from Loreto to the mouth of the Colorado River,
Father Fernando Consag noted that (1) the Spanish and their "Cochimí" interpreters could not
converse with the natives; (2) the natives had dogs; and (3) the Indians had pottery vessels
(Venegas, 1944, III:107-109).

The Hungarian Jesuit was the first to note the southeastern linguistic boundary of the California
Yuman groups, a boundary which lay immediately north of Bahía de Los Angeles. At the same time
he placed the southernmost extent of dogs and the making or use of pottery on the peninsula
in the 18th century.

In describing the collection from Bahía de Los Angeles, we have the benefit of ethnographic
descriptions from three periods of the Spanish occupation of Baja California prior to 1769
and the expulsion of the Jesuit missionaries. Some historical data derive from the initial
voyages of the Spanish along the gulf coast in the 16th century. Later there were occasional
contacts with these natives by Jesuit explorers during the first half of the 18th century.
Finally, there was the period of active missionization, beginning with the foundation of Santa
Gertrudis (1751) and continuing with San Borja (1762) and Santa María (1766).

Toward the end of the 18th century there are applicable descriptions of Indians immediately
to the north by the Dominican priest, Father Luis Sales (1794).

The ethnographic information contained in the documents bears out the fact that the cave artifacts
belong in the cultural tradition of the Borjeño who inhabited the region at the time of European
contact and conquest.

THE SITE

Bahía de Los Angeles is a semicircular bay, about four miles in diameter, on the gulf coast
of Baja California at 28° 55' N. and 113° 30' W. (map 1). On the northwest it is open to the
waters of the Gulf of California and to the Canal de las Ballenas, which runs between the peninsula
and Isla Ángel de la Guarda, some twelve miles distant. (This island and the smaller Isla Smith
obstruct a view of the outer gulf, and from the shore Bahía de Los Angeles appears to be completely
landlocked.) Within a few hundred feet of the shore, sandy beaches give way to the talus slopes
of the mesas and peaks which edge the bay. An arroyo enters the bay from the west.

The cave excavated by Dr. Palmer is situated on a granitic hill to the west of the bay, at
an elevation of 30 ft. above sea level. Just below the mouth of the narrow fissure is a spring
which supplies water to the little mining community. The cave itself measures 9 ft. in depth;
it is 6 ft. wide and 5 ft. high at the mouth. Before Dr. Palmer's excavations, miners of the
Gulf Gold Mining Company had removed some stones--referred to in the Report as a "wall"--from
the front of the fissure, thus exposing a few bones, which lay sun-bleached on the talus slope
(Annual Report, 1888, p. 127).

THE BURIALS

The small cave at Bahía de Los Angeles contained at least seven burials: six adults and "fragments
of one or more infants" (Annual Report, 1888, p. 128). These burials were extended with an
east-west orientation corresponding to the axis of the fissure; the foot bones were to the
west, at the mouth of the cave, and the crania were in the tapered interior. The published
report does not indicate whether placement was prone or supine.

According to the Report the burials had been placed on a layer of sewn rush matting (139533[1];
see "Matting"), of which three bundles were collected.

 [1] Numbers throughout this paper refer to catalogue numbers of the
 United States National Museum unless otherwise specified.

The artifacts described here were found in direct association with the skeletons. There are
few details as to actual associations. However, three hairnets (139534) were found on three
of the crania.

To date, the use of small caves for the specific purpose of burial appears to be characteristic
only of the extreme south of Baja California, in the Cape Region. Interments there were customarily
secondary, although primary burials, usually flexed, do occur (Massey, MS 1). In the extensive
area that lies between Bahía de Los Angeles and the Cape Region, excavations have failed to
produce cave cemeteries. To judge from published reports, such a custom was rare elsewhere
in western North America.

A variety of artifacts accompanied the burials, but while the range of types is large, the
number of any one type is small. Preservation of all specimens is generally good. We are fortunate
in having perishable pieces--netting, matting, cloth, and wood. Certain general categories
of items, such as household utensils and remains of foodstuffs, are absent and unreported.

ARTIFACTS

STONE

Tubular stone pipes.--Two tubular sandstone pipes were recovered from the cave. They are dissimilar
in size, and, in some particulars, in manufacture.

The larger specimen (139563; pl. 12, e) is a ground sandstone tube, 29.8 cm. long. In shape
it tapers very gradually from the broad bowl end to the narrower mouth end. The conical bowl
is 3.5 cm. deep; the mouth end has a depth of 1.6 cm. A small (4 mm.) drilled hole connects
the two ends. The mouth end is filled by a plug of partially carbonized matted coarse fibers.
There is a narrow carbonized strip, slightly in from the bowl end, which runs around the pipe;
this appears to be the remnant of a cord that had been tied around it. Since the pipe had been
broken at that end, it may have been repaired aboriginally with such a cord.

The smaller pipe (139564; pl. 12, d) barely tapers from the bowl end to the mouth end. The
ends of this pipe are conically drilled and they interconnect; there is no drilled hole connecting
the bowl with the mouth end, as in the larger specimen. A partially carbonized plug of matted
coarse fibers also fills the mouth end of the smaller pipe.

Although simple tubular stone pipes occur sporadically in the archaeology of the Southwest,
they are encountered frequently in central and northern Baja California. Stone tubes or pipes,
called chacuacos, are often mentioned in Spanish sources as part of the shaman's paraphernalia
in this Yuman-speaking area of the peninsula (Venegas, 1944, I:93, 95; Clavigero, 1937, p. 115).

In the known areas of archaeological occurrence these pipes appear in two distinct sizes, even
as they are represented in the two Bahía de Los Angeles specimens. There is the long type,
measuring more than 15 cm., of which several specimens have been found in Baja California,
at Bahía de Los Angeles, at a site near the Rosario Mission in the northwest, and throughout
the central part of the peninsula (Massey, field notes). This type has also been noted from
Ortiz, Sonora (Di Peso, 1957, p. 288), and in a late prehistoric or historic level at Ventana
Cave (Haury, 1950, p. 331).

The shorter type, usually about 7 cm. in length, is known to occur in the general central region
around Mulegé (Massey, MS 2) and at Bahía de Los Angeles. In the Southwest, the smaller type
has been reported from Chiricahua-Amargosa II levels at Ventana Cave (Haury, 1950, p. 329);
La Candelaria Cave, Coahuila (Aveleyra et al., 1956, pp. 174-175); San Cayetano Ruin (Di Peso,
1956, pp. 423-430); and from a series of sites, particularly in the Mogollon area (Martin et
al., 1952, pp. 112-113, fig. 44).

Similar pipes have also been found in the western Great Basin at Lovelock Cave (Loud and Harrington,
1929, pl. 52) on the old shoreline of Humboldt Lake (ibid., pl. 65), and at Humboldt Cave (Heizer
and Krieger, 1956, p. 71; pl. 31, e, f).

Ethnographically, pipes of straight tubular shape are characteristic of California, the Great
Basin, and the west coast of Mexico; however, they are usually of pottery where pottery-making
was known (Driver and Massey, 1957, pp. 262-263, map 70). In these areas they were used for
smoking, frequently in association with religious or curing ceremonies.

In mission times tubular stone pipes were used throughout northern and central Baja California
by shamans; they were smoked and the smoke was blown on injured or diseased parts, or they
were used as sucking and blowing tubes for the removal of disease-causing objects.

