Three species of wild oxalis, or wood-sorrel, should not be overlooked. The yellow, which is
found everywhere, is so common as to be unappreciated; but the white, with petals streaked
with red lines, is very pretty: it is found in deep, cold woods in Massachusetts and the Middle
States. The violet wood-sorrel is, however, the beauty of the family, and rare enough to require
being searched for. It springs from a bulb in shady, rocky woods in New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
and New York; three or four soft purple blossoms nod on a slender stalk, and it is a lovely
little plant. All the wood-sorrels are attractive and interesting from the graceful and pathetic
habit which they have of folding up and drooping their delicate leaves at night-fall, opening
them at the early light of morning.

The showy wild lupine comes out with long racemes of purple, pink, blue, and white blossoms,
covering sandy fields with a flush of color.

The dear wild roses make the wood paths beautiful, and the indescribably delicious fragrance
of the sweet-brier betrays its location on the dry banks and rocky road-sides.

The flowering raspberry, found in moist woods and shady dells, is as beautiful as the rose,
and the buds, if possible, more beautiful than rose-buds. The flowers are large, of a vivid
deep rose-red, and the leaves maple-shaped, and very graceful.

In June, also, come six or eight species of Cornus, or dogwood, each beautiful in its way.
These shrubs, which are generally found in rich soil in rocky, open woods, are rare in New
England, but abundant in the Middle States. The brilliant little bunchberry, however, which
belongs to the Cornus family, delights in the deep cold woods of Maine, where it grows luxuriantly,
its rich red berries charming the eye in the depths of the forest.

In the gloom of shady woods, at the roots of pine and oak trees, the young botanist may perhaps
be startled to see an array of little ghosts, as it were, springing from dead leaves, and without
one touch of the green of summer, but waxen-white in every part, leaves, stems, and all, sometimes
having a faint shade of pink or tawny yellow. This is the Indian-pipe, with none of the healthful
honesty of other plants, but stealing its existence from surrounding neighbors; and with this
ghostly parasite we will close the list for June, not that it is exhausted, for hundreds stand
waiting, but it would take a book to tell of them all.

  FLOWERS OF JUNE.

  COMMON NAME.         COLOR.             LOCALITY, ETC.

  Alpine azalea         Wh., rose-color   White Mts., rocky hills; N. E.
  Alum-root             Greenish-purple   Rocky woodlands; Conn. to Wis.
  Alum-root, downy      Purplish-white    Rich woods; Lancaster, Pa.
  American ipecac       Rose-color        Deep woods; N. Y., Pa., and
                                            West.
  Arrow-wood            White, light
                          blue berries    Wet places. Common North.
  Bell-shaped
    sullivantia         White             Limestone cliffs; Ohio, Wis.
  Bird's-eye primrose   Pale lilac        Shores of Western lakes; Mt.
                                            Kineo, Me.
  Black snakeroot       Greenish-yellow   Copses, open glades. Common.
  Black huckleberry     Reddish, berries
                          black           Woodlands. Common.
  Blue-tangle           White, berries
                          dark blue       Low copses; New England.
  Bunchberry            White flowers,
                          red berries     Damp, cold, deep woods; Me.
  Burning-bush          Dark purple       Shaded woods; N. Y., Pa.,
                                            South.
  Bush honeysuckle      Honey yellow      Rocks and thickets; Northward.
  Buttercups            Yellow            Banks and fields. Common.
  Cassiope              Wh., rose-color   White Mts., Adirondacks, Me.
                                            Rare.
  Chervil               White             Fields and copses; Lancaster,
                                            Pa., N. J.
  Chinquepin, American
    lotus               Pale yellow       Conn., N. J., West. lakes. Rare.
  Clustered
    bell-flower         Deeper blue       Road-sides; Danvers, Mass.
  Coffee-tree           White racemes     River-banks, rich soil; N. Y.,
                                            Pa., West.
  Collinsia             Blue and white    Moist soil; N. Y., Pa., West.
  Common elder          Flowers white,
                          berries black   Banks, rich soil. Common.
  Cornel, panicled      Flowers and
                          berries white   Thickets and river-banks.
  Cornel, red osier     Whitish, berries
                          white           Damp New England pastures.
  Cornel, silky         White, berries
                          pale blue       Wet places. Common.
  Cow-lily              Bright yellow     Still waters. Very common.
  Cranberry-tree        Wh., red berries  Low, damp grounds; N. J.
  Crowberry             White             Mountains; New England.
  Cuckoo-flower         Rose-color, wh.   Bogs, swamps; Vt., N. J.
  Dahoon holly          Yellow-white      Swamps of Virginia.
  Dwarf raspberry       White             Hill-sides; N. E. to Pa.
                                            Common.
  Dwarf wild rose       Deep pink         Dry rocky banks and fields;
                                            N. E.
  Evening primrose      Pale yellow       Sandy fields; N. J. and South.
  False indigo          Violet            River-banks; Pa., South, West.
  Feverwort             B'wnish-purple    Rich woodlands. Common.
  Flowering dogwood     Purplish-white,   Rocky woods; Conn., N. J.,
                          red berries       South.
  Flowering raspberry   Deep red purple   Copses, wooded banks; New Eng.
  Fumitory, climbing    Purplish-white    Wet woods; West.
  Great-spurred violet  Pale violet       Damp shady woods; Mass. Rare.
  Great willow-herb     Pink-purple       Low grounds, burned pastures,
                                            and woods.
  Green violet          Greenish-white    Open woods; N. Y., Pa. Rare.
  Green-weed            Yellow            Dry hills; Mass., Middle
                                            States, W.
  Hedysarum             Violet-purple     Mountains; New England, Me.
  Herb-robert           Red-purple        Shady ravines, wet woods;
                                            N. E.
  High blackberry       White             Woods, pastures, banks.
                                            Common.
  Ilex holly            Greenish          Moist woodlands; sea-coast,
                                            N. J.
  Indian-pipe           Waxy white        Dark shady woods; New England.
  Inkberry              White flowers,
                          berries black   Sandy grounds; Cape Ann.
  Labrador tea          White             Cold bogs and mountain woods;
                                            New England.
  Leather-flower        Purple            Rich woods; N. J., N. Y.,
                                            West.
  Low blackberry        White             Low woods, road-sides. Common.
  Magnolia, sweet-bay   White             Cape Ann, Gloucester and
                                            Manchester woods.
  Marsh five-finger     Purple            Cool bogs; New England to Pa.
  Marsh violet          Pale lilac        White Mts., high lands N. Rare.
  Meadow-sweet          White             Damp soil, banks; N. J., West.
  Mountain laurel       Pink and white    Rocky hills, damp soil. Common.
  Mountain sandwort     White             Mountains; New England.
  Nine-bark             Wh., rose-color   Rocky river-banks; West.
  One-flowered pyrola   White-pink        Deep cold New England woods.
  Pale laurel           Light purple      Cold peat bogs and mountains.
  Partridge-berry       Purple and white,
                          red berries     Dry woods, creeping. Common.
  Persimmon             Pale yellow       Woods and old fields; R. I.,
                                            N. Y.
  Pimpernel             Scarlet, blue,
                          wh.             Waste sandy fields; Mass., N. J.
  Pitcher-plant         Deep purple       Peat-bogs and swamps; New Eng.
  Poison-ivy, climbing  Greenish          Rocky thickets, low grounds.
  Poison sumac          Dull color,
                          very poisonous  Swamps and wet pastures.
  Pond-lily             White, pink       Ponds, pools, and still waters.
                                            Common.
  Prince's-pine         Pale pink         Dry woods. Common.
  Pyrola                Greenish-white    Rich woods; Conn., N. J., N. Y.
  Queen of the prairie  Peach-color       Open meadows; Pa., prairies W.
  Red anemone           Red               Rocky hills; Vt., N. Y. Rare.
  Red elder             Flowers white,
                          berries red     Rocky woods; New England.
  Round-leaved cornus   White, berries    Rich soil, copses; Middle
                          blue            States.
  Roxbury wax-work,
    climbing            Red berries       Thickets; N. E., Middle States.
  Seneca snakeroot      White             Rocky soil; N. E., West, South.
  Sheep-laurel          Crimson           Hill-sides, pastures. Common.
  Shrubby cinque-foil   Yellow            Wet grounds; N. E. Common.
  Silver-weed           Yellow            Brackish marshes and meadows;
                                            New England, West.
  Small cranberry       Rose-color        Peat bogs; N. E., Middle
                                            States.
  Spotted wintergreen   Pink and white    Open woods; Middle States.
  Staghorn sumac        Greenish          Hill-sides, dry banks. Common.
  Strawberry-bush       Greenish-purple   Wooded banks; N. Y., Ill.,
                                            South.
  Sundew                White             Bogs, wet pastures; New Eng.
  Sundrops              Yellow            Open fields; N. J., N. Y., Pa.
  Supple-jack,
    climb'g.            Greenish-white    Damp meadows; Va. and South.
  Swamp-honeysuckle     White-pink        Swamps; New England sea-coast.
  Swamp-rose            Pink              Swamps and pastures. Common.
  Swamp-saxifrage       Greenish          Bogs, wet pastures. Common.
  Sweet-brier           Pale pink         Rocky banks, road-sides; N. E.
  Sweet-cicely          White             Rich moist Northern woods.
  Tall bell-flower      Bright blue       Rich soil; N. Y., N. J., West.
  Three-toothed                           Brunswick, Me., White Mts.,
    cinque-foil         White              Cape Cod. Rare.
  Twin-flower           Pale pink         Moist, mossy woods; Me.,
                                            N. J., N. Y.
  Valerian              Pale pink         Wooded banks; Lancaster, Pa.,
                                            O.
  Wild elder            Greenish-white    Rocky banks, thickets. Common.
  Wild flax             Yellow            Wet, boggy grounds; New
                                            England, West. Rare.
  Wild honeysuckle      Light yellow      Rocky banks; Catskill, Ohio, W.
  Wild licorice         White             Sandy shores; Western N. Y.
  Wild lupine           Purple, blue,
                          pink, white     Sandy open fields; Mass., Conn.
  Wild monk's-hood      Bright blue       Rich shady hills; N. Y., N. J.,
                                            S.
  Wild pea              Purple, white     Dry sandy soil; North and
                                            South.
  Wild red raspberry    White             Thickets, road-sides; N. E.,
                                            South, and West.
  Wild sarsaparilla     White             Moist woods; North and West.
  Wild touch-me-not     Orange, brown     Thickets, shades, beside
                                            streams. Common.
  Wood-sorrel           Violet            Rocky, damp woods; Orange,
                                            N. J., South. Rare.
  Wood-sorrel           White, red veins  Deep cold woods; Mass. to Pa.
  Wood-sorrel           Yellow            Copses and open fields;
                                            everywhere.
  Yellow-wood           Showy white       Rich woods and hills;
                          flowers           Middle States.

THE ADVENTURES OF A RAT RACE.

BY JAMES B. MARSHALL.

The carpenters came on a certain Monday morning to make some needed alterations about Mr. Wilson's
stable at the rear of his house yard. And you know what a noise carpenters will make when working;
far more than enough to disturb the most contented of rats.

Peggy O'Conner, who was moving to and from the kitchen hanging up linen to dry in the yard,
said she saw no rat pass by her; but as a rat was found in the library, it must have come there
by way of the side yard from the stable.

It was a rather warm summer morning, but with enough of a breeze blowing to start Uncle Leonard
sneezing if he should drop off to sleep while sitting in a draught. Now, merry Uncle Leonard
was asleep in an easy-chair down in the library, where the two window-sashes were raised and
both doors were open. He had gone there, as usual, to read the morning paper, but gradually
it drooped nearer and nearer the end of his nose, as usual, until it finally spread itself
adroitly over his closed eyes, to fend off the flies. Then he began to make that soft steam-enginery
sound that most stout gentlemen make when asleep, about as loud as the purring of "Cattegat,"
Lou and Amy's cat.

Cattegat always followed Uncle Leonard to the library if possible, to escape Lou and Amy, who,
during their vacation, were trying to teach him to hold a lump of sugar on the end of his nose
while seated on his hind paws. Cattegat, who liked the sugar but not the trick, had been so
named by a Danish gentleman who had presented him to Lou and Amy.

The rat as it entered the library thought, doubtless, that it was a pretty comfortable-looking
place, or else it wouldn't have gone about the room smelling and sniffing until it found a
piece of sponge-cake, knocked by the canary from the wires of its cage.

That little breeze went on blowing across Uncle Leonard's head, and directly he gave a rousing
"ashoo!" of a sneeze. Such an "a-a-sh-sh-shoo," that he actually sneezed himself into a sitting
position. The rat was more startled at such a noise than at all the carpenters had made, and
dropping the cake, peeped from behind an ottoman where it took refuge.

Cattegat jumped up and looked at Uncle Leonard as if to ask him if he had made that noise,
and then glanced about the room.

"What can ail the cat!" exclaimed Uncle Leonard, as Cattegat went across the floor in about
three springs. Then quickly closing the yard door, he called, "A rat! a rat!" as the rat ran
from behind the ottoman.

Cattegat and the rat raced headlong around the room once, and Uncle Leonard nearly kicked himself
off his feet as the rat slipped unhurt by him. Then away went the rat out of the library through
the other door, along the hall, and up the front stairs; away tore Cattegat not far behind
it; and quickly in pursuit trotted Uncle Leonard, calling, "Catch him, Cattegat; catch him,
Cattegat!"

At the moment, Lou, a very handy boy about the house, was in a second-story room near the head
of the stairs, and had just finished gluing in the leg of Amy's rocking-chair. He had taken
the chair there to mend, because the floor was not carpeted, but smoothly varnished, and any
glue dropped could be easily removed. Amy stood watching him as she slowly untied a package
of prepared chalk for the teeth, with which she had shortly before returned from the drug store.

"Gracious! what's coming up stairs?" said Lou, placing the glue brush on the chair beside the
glue-pot, and stepping to the door.

"Look out for the rat!" shouted Uncle Leonard.

Amy instantly sprang on the first object at hand, her just-mended rocking-chair, which gave
way, of course, and over she went. However, she broke her fall by catching at the chair holding
the glue-pot and brush, though the glue rolled to the right and the brush to the left. The
package of prepared chalk, that had received an upward pitch as Amy had toppled over, then
came down in time to plentifully powder both her and Lou.

The latter had turned to clear the way for the rat and Cattegat, not more than an instant later
than Amy had taken alarm, but the glue had been spilled more quickly. And though Lou jumped
over the pool of glue safely, he landed right under the shower of chalk, and directly upon
the slippery glue brush. Presto! down went Lou, and shooting over the smooth floor, vanished
under the bed at the far end of the room, as though he had been a clown playing in a pantomime.

Amy, so filled with laughter, could scarce manage to climb on the sound chair before the rat
and Cattegat came whizzing through the doorway; both leaped clear of the spilled glue, and
scampered in a flash across the floor into the next room, and so on through several other rooms
that communicated.

"Oho! bravo, Cattegat!" said Uncle Leonard, as he came on, running at a wonderful rate for
him. Right through the doorway he ran, but on seeing Amy, he was about to lessen his speed,
and have her join in the chase, when he stepped in the pool of glue. Slip, slip, slide across
the room, went Uncle Leonard, with his feet getting farther apart, as though the floor was
the slipperiest of ice. He slid to and against a wash-stand, and then sank down slowly and
gracefully at its foot in a way that would have done credit to a champion gymnast. But he shook
the stand so violently that the water-pitcher was shaken over within its basin, and emptied
half its contents upon his head.

Amy rushed to his aid, righted the pitcher, and inquired if he was hurt.

"Not a bit," said Uncle Leonard, getting again on his feet, smiling mirthfully at his own dripping
coat, and giving one of those jolly laughs of his at Amy's chalk-powdered head. "Come along,
my dear," continued he; "keep the chase up, or the rat will yet have the best of it. But where's
Lou?"

"Here I am!" answered Lou, poking his laughing, powdered face from under the bed, and crawling
out. And away they all followed the chase, Uncle Leonard kicking off his gluey slippers, and
catching up a pair of Papa Wilson's.

Cattegat and the rat in the mean time had been racing up and down the front bedrooms, frightening
Mamma Wilson and Aunt Laura into climbing up on one of the beds, and Cattegat had distinguished
himself by knocking over a sewing basket and a screen. As the pursuers appeared upon the scene,
rat and cat ran out into the hallway again, through a door that Aunt Laura had opened, hoping
to get clear of them.

Then pat, pat, pat, again in chase went Lou and Amy's shoes; flap, flap, flap, followed Uncle
Leonard's slippers; and Mamma Wilson and Aunt Laura brought up the rear with an irregular run
and walk. Right through the length of the whole second story, through the hallway, and from
room to room they rushed, with such a clatter and whoop as had never before been heard in that
house, merry as were its people.

Cattegat will now surely catch that ferocious rat in the last room, thought every one. But
no; straight down the back stairs plunged the rat, and jump, jump, followed Cattegat, still
several feet behind it. And at the bottom of the stairway, closed by a door, the race would
have been doubtlessly won by Cattegat, but Peggy O'Conner, hearing such an unusual commotion
overhead, came to the door to inquire its cause. As Peggy opened the door she heard several
voices call: "Don't open that door; Cattegat's after a rat."

Bang! went the door--closed quickly, I assure you; but something flew past Peggy, and she only
shut the door in Cattegat's face.

As that something, very much like a rat, flew past Peggy, and vanished out of the kitchen,
a piece of soap that Katie, the other girl, threw with a very bad aim, went flying after it.
But frightened Peggy, in dismay, raised her hands, backed awkwardly against a tub of blue water
on the floor, and before she could recover her balance, splashed down into the water, which
flew about like the spray of a great fountain.

As the whole party filed down the back stairs, Katie was trying amidst her merriment to help
wringing-wet Peggy out of her queer bath, and all but Cattegat had something to laugh at.

Cattegat seemed very much disappointed because the rat had escaped, and went out in the yard,
and hid himself under a rose-bush.

As for the rat, Lou is pretty certain that he sees it occasionally capering about the stable,
very much unlike a common rat that has never had an adventure.

THE MORNING MESSAGE.

BY K. M. M.

  A beam was sent out by the morning sun
  To carry the message that day had begun.

  First the gay courier told his story
  To the opening buds of the morning-glory.

  The birds in their nest on the branch o'erhead
  Heard every word that the sunbeam said,

  And all at once in the trees was heard
  The twittered "good-morning" of each little bird.

  Then in at the window the messenger flew,
  And all around him his gold he threw.

  He scattered it here, and everywhere,
  He gilded the braids of the mother's hair.

  He glanced at the baby, who laughed with glee,
  And danced for joy on his mother's knee.

  And little Clara, the three-year-old,
  Tried to catch at the shining gold;

  And she said, "Mamma, if I'm good to-day,
  Perhaps this beautiful sunbeam will stay."

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     About a month ago my papa came home from Panama, and brought me
     two beautiful little birds for pets. I do not know any English
     name for them, but in Spanish they are called Verdones del
     Pacifico. They are about the size of a canary. Their bodies are
     beautiful dark blue, the wings and back are glossy black with a
     blue stripe, and the top of the head irised green. The under side
     of the wings is golden yellow. They have little bright black eyes,
     long bills like a humming-bird, and dainty little red legs and
     toes. They feed on bananas, and eat all day long. They are very
     queer little gymnasts, and hang head downward from their perch to
     reach their food. They do not sing, but the moment daylight begins
     they commence a sweet little peeping, which they keep up from
     morning till night.

     We did not know they would eat insects; but one afternoon a big
     fly came buzzing round their cage, and they fluttered and peeped
     and pushed their bills through the wires in their efforts to catch
     it. My brother caught it and gave it to them in his fingers. They
     both dived for it, and had a fight to see which should get the
     biggest half. Since then we catch flies for them all the time, and
     whenever any one goes near their cage they begin to peep and
     watch, hoping for a fly.

     Sometimes we shut the windows and let them fly around the room and
     hunt for themselves. They dart like lightning, and not a fly
     escapes them. They are growing very tame, and will come and perch
     upon my finger when they are tired flying.

     I wonder if any other little boy or girl has any Verdones? Their
     home is in the forests along the tropical Pacific coast. They
     build a nest similar to that of the humming-bird, and are
     considered members of the same family, although they do not hover
     over their food like the humming-bird.

  CARRIE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FORT ONTARIO, OSWEGO, NEW YORK.

     My father is a lieutenant in the Second Artillery. We have been in
     Oswego seventeen months. The fort is on the lake, and a very old
     fort it is. The scarf wall facing Lake Ontario has never been
     finished. In the fort grave-yard are some very old graves. There
     is one of George Fykes, a Revolutionary soldier, who died in 1776.

     This is a very pleasant post. In summer there is plenty of boating
     and fishing. I went fishing the other day, but did not have very
     good luck. There were a great many wrecks on the lake last fall.

     I have one little brother four months old. When he gets old enough
     I will write a letter for him too. I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much.
     I am ten years old.

  HOWARD M.

       *       *       *       *       *

  TABLE ROCK, NEBRASKA.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE ever so much. I have no pets except my little
     baby brother, but there are lots of birds' nests in our orchard.
     One day when we were in the orchard we saw a big nest with rags
     woven in it, and I spied a corner of an embroidered handkerchief
     that was given me a year ago last Christmas. Papa was up in the
     tree, and he pulled it out and threw it down to me. I think it was
     a blackbird's nest. The eggs were green, with dark brown spots on
     them.

  GERTIE B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BROOKLINE, MASSACHUSETTS.

     Here is a game that I invented. I have played it very often, and
     it is very good fun. Two boys stand opposite each other, about ten
     feet apart. Each boy has a ball--rubber ones are best, as they
     will bounce. The balls must be thrown from one boy to the other,
     both at the same time. When they hit in the air--which they do
     oftener than you would think--each boy tries to catch one on the
     first bounce or fly. Each ball so captured counts one. Whoever
     gets ten first beats.

     I have some tracing paper and a lithogram which papa gave me, and
     I have a great deal of fun tracing pictures and copying them on
     the lithogram.

  WILLY A.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BEREA, KENTUCKY.

     I have a pair of canaries. The singer I have named Sankey; the
     other is Jenny. When I put mamma's mirror in the cage, Sankey will
     look at himself and sing beautifully, and then he will peep behind
     the mirror to see if any other bird is there. I am ten years old.

  JULIA B. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY.

     I thought you would like to hear about our kitty. At night when we
     go to bed he climbs over two sheds and a grape arbor up to mamma's
     window, and shakes the shutter until mamma gets up and lets him
     in. Then he goes down and waits at the front door till papa comes
     in. Then he follows papa down stairs, and papa gives him something
     to eat, and shuts him up in the kitchen. In the morning he runs
     out in the yard and plays around until breakfast-time, when he
     comes in and goes right to papa's place at the table. He puts his
     fore-paws upon the table, and claws papa's arm until he gets a
     piece of meat, or bread, which he likes best.

     Here is a recipe for Puss Hunter and her club. I call it
     jaw-breaker candy. It is a little different from Nellie H.'s
     recipe. One cup of brown sugar; half a cup of vinegar; a piece of
     butter the size of a hickory-nut. When I think it is boiled
     enough, I drop a little into a glass of cold water, and if it
     hardens, it is done, and I pour it into a buttered dish to cool.

  REBECCA H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CAMDEN, ALABAMA.

     I am a subscriber to YOUNG PEOPLE, and this is the first letter I
     have written for "Our Post-office Box." I had a large doll given
     me last Christmas, and I have named her Fannie Sue. She has a
     pretty little red trunk full of clothes, and a black satin hat
     with red flowers on it. My papa got me a donkey a few weeks ago,
     and when I learn to ride nicely he is going to give me a horse.

  KATE C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS.

     I thought the boys and girls would like to hear about my auntie's
     pets. She has four big birds and four baby birds. One of the baby
     birds got out of its nest this morning, and hopped about the cage.
     Another bird is sitting on five eggs. Then we have four cats and
     four kittens, and a great big Newfoundland dog. I am eight years
     old. I live in Indianapolis, but I am visiting auntie now.

  FRED D. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NEWARK, NEW JERSEY.

     I write to tell you of my success with the tarantula in YOUNG
     PEOPLE No. 29. I had to work hard to get the body cut out nicely,
     but at last it was done. A little girl showed it to her father,
     and he thought it was a big live spider, and gave it a knock which
     sent three of its legs flying, but I soon mended it.

  EDDIE W. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DEEP RIVER, CONNECTICUT, May 19, 1880.

     My sister subscribed for YOUNG PEOPLE for my Christmas present. I
     learned the song "I am the Lad in the Blue and White," and now I
     am learning "I am the Lad in the Cadet Gray."

     I caught two baby trout out of a brook with a cup, but papa told
     me to put them back in the water, so I did. There are lots of
     violets here now, and our rose-bushes are budded. For the last two
     weeks the air has been very sweet with apple blossoms. I was
     eleven years old yesterday.

  EDITH P.

       *       *       *       *       *

  PINE RIVER, COLORADO.

     I live in Southwest Colorado, close to the Ute Indian Reservation.
     My papa has a store, and the Indians often come to trade. These
     Utes are not bad, like the Utes who killed Mr. Meeker. We had six
     wild geese, but a bad dog killed one of them. Some time I will
     write more about the Indians here.

  HATTIE J.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BONANZA, IDAHO.

     I like to read all the letters from the children in YOUNG PEOPLE,
     and I thought I would tell about my puppies. They bark if any one
     comes in the room. One catches another by the tail and growls, and
     the other jumps around and barks. There are three of them. Their
     mother is sick, and coughs up blood. I wish some boy could tell me
     what to do for her.

     The snow is eighteen inches deep here yet (May 8), but it has been
     over six feet deep here this winter.

  F. M. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MILLS CITY, MONTANA.

     I am always glad when YOUNG PEOPLE comes. I like all the stories
     very much. We have two buffaloes, ten cows, a little calf, two
     horses, and a little colt; and I have two cats, a dog named Rose,
     and some chickens of my own. We have beautiful house plants, and
     flowers growing in the garden in summer. I have two sisters and a
     brother. My oldest sister is at school in Bismarck. I am eleven
     years old.

  LAURA B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

