PUNCH,

  OR, THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

  VOLUME 98.

  APRIL 19, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE LANE.

Monday.--Carmen exceptionally excellent. Miss ZÉLIE DE LUSSAN, gifted with a light, pleasant
voice, sang admirably. Can't have "Trop de Zélie." Mr. BARTON McGUCKIN, as Don Jim-along-José,
did all that can be done with this weak-minded soldier. No holes to be picked in Mr. McG.'s
performance, though there was a portion of his costume that would have been the better for
the attention of Signor SOANSO, the Spanish tailor. Perhaps he is one of the "Renters" of Drury
Lane. The strongest and most novel situation was the entrance of a horse, which, like the old
woman who "lived on nothing but victuals and drink," "wouldn't be quiet," and nearly gave poor
Carmen fits. If it had given Mr. BARTON McGUCKIN fits--a pair of them--my previous allusion
to the tailor would have lacked a tangible basis of fact. Fancy Carmen frightened by an ordinary
horse, not even a dray-horse, of which no Carmen would have been afraid!

Tuesday and Friday.--Faust. Signor RUNCIO, as Faust, up to the mark. Military band of soldiers
returned from the wars had apparently conquered the drum of a British regiment. Signor ABRAMOFF
(good as Mephistopheles) showed his generous disposition by sharing his red light with Martha
when he was talking to her.

Wednesday.--Romeo and Juliet, repetition of last week when the season commenced with GONOUD'S
masterpiece. Scenery tested the resources of some of the greatest Drury Lane successes. The
pantomime in the ball-room was particularly excellent and noticeable.

Thursday.--Mignon, represented by charming Miss MOODY. Supported by the dullest of Lotharios,
Mr. F. H. CELLI. Wilhelm played by a very small tenor--in fact one who looked like a CHILD.
The cast good all round, and a crowded house enthusiastic. One of the best revivals of the season.

Saturday.--WALLACE'S Lurline in the evening, after Carmen in the morning. "Troubador" just
as enchanting as he was twenty years ago. "The silver river," too, "flows on" as sweetly as
ever. Good house testifies to the love we all have for home-made music. On the whole a satisfactory
week from every point of view. So far--all's well.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF INEBRIETY."

(Notes by Mr. Punch's Own Reporter.)

ON the last occasion of the Meeting of the above Society a most interesting paper was read
by Professor JAMES JAMBES, F.R.Z.S., describing a series of experiments to which, in the cause
of Science, he had recently submitted himself. Commencing by comparatively small quantities
of alcoholic stimulant, he gradually increased the doses until he reached a maximum of three
bottles of Brandy and one of Green Chartreuse per diem, abandoning all other work during the
period embraced by the experiments. After a fortnight of patient research he was rewarded by
the discovery in his immediate neighbourhood of an abundance of blackbeetles, which he was
unable to refer to any known species of Orthoptera. These were succeeded by reptiles and beasts
of various kinds and colours, specimens of which, owing to their evasiveness, he much regretted
to have been unsuccessful in securing. After increasing the dose to two bottles daily, he was
able to detect the presence of rodents in large quantities. Subsequently these creatures assumed
the most surprising shapes, while their colouring was frequently gorgeous in the extreme. He
had made some brandy-and-water sketches of the most remarkable--though he had to apologise
for the drawing being less accurate and clear than he could have wished, as the conditions
were generally unfavourable for scientific observation. Still, they afforded a very fair idea
of the principal phenomena which he had met. (Cheers.) The Professor, in concluding, remarked
that he himself had never been a Materialist, and that, after the experiences that attended
the addition of the third bottle of brandy and the Green Chartreuse to his diurnal allowance,
he could only confess that, in the words of the Poet, there were more--many more--things in
heaven and earth than had been dreamed of in his philosophy. Some of the imps, for instance,
that he had noticed on the foot of his bed, he should never forget. He must ask indulgence
for any short-comings both in the manner and matter of his contribution, on the ground that
he was still suffering from severe indisposition, in consequence of the ardour with which his
researches had been pursued. He felt that he was still only on the threshold, but he was fascinated
by the glimpses he had already obtained of the strange and wonderful things with which the
study of Advanced Inebriety would make the humblest of us increasingly familiar. (Great cheering.)

The reading of the paper was followed by a discussion, in which Dr. LOSCHEN said, that he was
in a position from his own experience to corroborate most of the statements in the very interesting
account to which they had just listened. He thought the learned Professor had, if anything,
rather underrated the dimensions of some of the snakes. He could see a particularly fine specimen
at that moment under the Chairman's table, and would postpone any further remarks he was about
to make.

Professor SQUIFFIE said he had not as yet brought his experiments so far as the last speakers.
He was not a Naturalist himself. His line was Optics. He described some interesting cases of
Double Refraction, Mock Suns, and Lunar Rainbows, that had come under his notice, before sitting
down with some suddenness on the floor.

Mr. STAGGERS, F.H.S., R.C.V.S., said that most of his time had been devoted to the study of
Seismatics. It was a fact not generally known that "earth tremors" were of almost nightly occurrence
after eleven P.M. Some persons refused to believe that the world went round the sun, but he
had seen it do so several times in the course of a single minute.

Mr. ORRERS wished to know whether any member present had formed any theory respecting the fantastic
attire, particularly in the matter of head-dresses, affected by the fauna encountered in the
more advanced stages of Inebriety. Why, for example, should kangaroos, especially in Piccadilly,
present themselves in the bonnets usually worn by Salvation lasses? And again, what natural
affinity was there between the common rabbit and a fez cap? He asked the question because it
had been upon his mind a good deal of late.

Mr. D. T. JUMPER said he merely desired to make one remark with regard to the pink rhinoceros,
which Professor JAMES--or, if he might take the liberty of so describing him, "dear old JEM
JAMBES"--had mentioned as having found in his bath. Speaking personally, he had never come
across the pink variety of these interesting pachyderms. He had seen them green, or striped,--but
not pink. Was it not just possible that his distinguished and excellent friend had been misled
by some deficiency in his eyesight or the light on this occasion? With regard to imps, both
blue and spotted, he could only say----but he was compelled to stop here, as he had barely
time to catch the last train to his Retreat.

Mr. BOOSER said he wasn't scientific fler, like some other flers, still he flattered himself
he was fler that knew as much about Inebriety as most flers, and if there was any fler there
liked doubt his word, give him the lie--they understood what give him the lie meant--he repeated--give
him the lie, why, what he wanted to know was, why didn't they have courage of their opinions?
They knew where find him, and if they didn't--he knew where find them. (Uproar.)

