Transcriber's Note

This ebook retains the spelling and punctuation variations of the original text published in
1836. A few corrections have been made where inadvertent typographical errors were suspected.
Details of these corrections can be found in a Transcriber's Note at the end of this text.

THE TRIAL

OF

REUBEN CRANDALL, M. D.

CHARGED WITH

PUBLISHING AND CIRCULATING

SEDITIOUS AND INCENDIARY PAPERS, &c.

IN THE

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,

WITH THE INTENT OF

EXCITING SERVILE INSURRECTION.

CAREFULLY REPORTED,

AND COMPILED FROM THE WRITTEN STATEMENTS OF THE COURT AND THE COUNSEL.

BY A MEMBER OF THE BAR.

WASHINGTON CITY. PRINTED FOR THE PROPRIETORS. 1836.

Entered according to the act of Congress, in the year 1836, in the Clerk's office of the District
of Columbia.

NOTICE.

THE TRIAL OF CRANDALL presents the first case of a man charged with endeavoring to excite insurrection
among slaves and the free colored population that was ever brought before a judicial tribunal.
It lasted ten days before the whole Court, and was as closely contested as any trial on record,
by the counsel on both sides. Every point of law was fully and strenuously argued, and carefully
considered by the Court; and where no statutes have been enacted, this case may be considered
as settling the legal questions touching the rights of the slaveholding population, on the
one hand, to protect themselves from foreign influence; and the circumstances, on the other
hand, which may bring people from the nonslaveholding States into danger of the law, by having
in their possession, showing, or circulating, papers and tracts which advocate the abolition
of slavery in such a way as to excite slaves and free people of color to revolt and violate
the existing laws and customs of the slaveholding States. No trial has ever occurred more important
to travellers from the North, or to the domestic peace of the inhabitants of the Southern States.

THE TRIAL

OF

REUBEN CRANDALL, M. D.

ON A CHARGE OF

CIRCULATING INCENDIARY PAPERS.

UNITED STATES' CIRCUIT COURT,

District of Columbia, Friday, April 15th, 1836.

PRESENT:

CRANCH, chief justice, THRUSTON and MORSELL, justices.

F. S. KEY, district attorney, and J. M. CARLISLE, for the prosecution.

R. S. COXE and J. H. BRADLEY, for the defence.

John H. King, Nicholas Callan, James Kennedy, Walter Clarke, George Crandall, William Waters,
Thomas Hyde, Thomas Fenwick, Samuel Lowe, George Simmes, Wesley Stevenson, and Jacob Gideon,
jr., were empannelled and sworn as jurors to try the issue.

This was an indictment charging, in five counts and in various forms, the offence under the
common law of libels, of publishing malicious and wicked libels, with the intent to excite
sedition and insurrection among the slaves and free colored people of this District. The three
first counts only having been relied upon, and no evidence having been offered under the others,
an abstract, omitting the mere formal part, will be sufficient to show the nature of the libels
charged.

1st. The first count charged the defendant with publishing a libel, containing in one part
thereof these words: "Then we are not to meddle with the subject of slavery in any manner;
neither by appeals to the patriotism, by exhortation to humanity, by application of truth to
the conscience. No; even to propose, in Congress, that the seat of our republican Government
may be purified from this crying abomination, under penalty of a dissolution of the Union."

And in another part thereof, in an article entitled "Reply to Mr. Gurley's letter, addressed
to the Rev. R. R. Gurley, Secretary of the American Colonization Society, Washington city,"
signed by Arthur Tappan and others, the following words: "We will not insult your understanding,
sir, with any labored attempt to prove to you that the descendants of African parents, born
in this country, have as good a claim to a residence in it, as the descendants of English,
German, Danish, Scotch, or Irish parents. You will not attempt to prove that every native colored
person you meet in the streets, has not the same right to remain in this his native land, that
you and we have. Assuming this as an incontrovertable truth, we hold it self-evident that they
have as good right to deport us to Europe, under the pretext that there we shall be prosperous
and happy, as we have to deport them to Africa on a similar plea."

And in another part thereof, in the said reply, the following words: "In what language could
the unrighteous principles of denying freedom to colored people in this country, (which amounts
to the same thing as demanding the expulsion of those already free,) be more effectually and
yet more plausibly inculcated than in those very words of Gen. Harper you have, with so much
approbation, quoted to us."

And in another part thereof, in the said reply, the following words: "Against this doctrine
of suspending emancipation upon the contingency or condition of expatriation we feel bound
to protest; because we believe that every man has a right to reside in his native country if
he chooses, and that every man's native country is the country in which he was born--that no
man's right to freedom is suspended upon, or taken away by his desire to remain in his native
country--that to make a removal from one's own native country a sine qua non of setting him
free when held in involuntary bondage, is the climax of moral absurdity."

And in another part thereof, in a certain other article, entitled "Three months' residence,
or seven weeks on a sugar plantation, by Henry Whitby," containing the most shocking and disgusting
details of cruel, inhuman, and immoral treatment of slaves by the owners and overseers, and
attorneys or agents of proprietors, according to the tenor and effect following--that is to
say: "On this and other occasions, I thought it my duty to acquaint the attorney with my observations
and feelings in regard to the cruel floggings and severe treatment generally which I have witnessed
at New Ground. He admitted the facts, but said that plantation work could not be carried on
without the cart-whip. He moreover labored hard to convince me that the flogging did not injure
the health of the negroes. I also told him of the exceeding immorality and licentiousness which
I had witnessed; mentioning, in substance, the facts previously detailed. He replied that "that
was a thing which they must wink at." If a man in manners so much the gentleman, and in other
respects so estimable, was necessarily led to countenance or wink at the enormities I have
feebly attempted to describe, what, I ask, is to be expected from its subordinate administrators
who are continually exposed to the demoralizing influences of slavery? what, indeed, but the
frightful wickedness and cruelty which are its actual fruits?"--in contempt of the laws, to
the disturbance of the public peace, to the evil example of all others, and against the peace
and government of the United States.

2d.

3d.

All these counts contained averments that at the time of the publication of these libels, the
citizens of the United States residing in the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia,
were lawfully authorized to hold slaves as property, and many of them did so hold them--and
that many free persons of color also reside in the District; and that the defendant, unlawfully,
maliciously, and seditiously, contriving and intending to traduce, vilify, and bring into hatred
and contempt, among the citizens of the United States, the laws and government of the United
States in the county of Washington as duly established and in force, and to inflame and excite
the people of the United States to resist and oppose and disregard the laws and Government
aforesaid, and the rights of the proprietors of slaves in the said county, and to inflame and
excite to violence, against the said proprietors of the said slaves, not only the ignorant
and ill disposed among the free people of the United States and the free persons of color in
the said county, but also the slaves; and to produce among the said slaves and free persons
of color, insubordination, violence, and rebellion, and to stir up war and insurrection between
the said slaves and their said masters, published the said libels, containing among other things
divers false, malicious and seditious matters, of and concerning the laws and Government of
the United States in the said District, and of and concerning the citizens of the United States
holding slaves in the said District, and of and concerning the said slaves and free persons
of color, and their labor, services, and treatment, and the state of slavery in the said District.

The defendant pleaded not guilty.

The District Attorney opened the case for the Government. He said this was a serious and important
charge of publishing inflammatory and seditious libels, which was always an indictable offence.
In this particular case, situated as the population of the District is, it was peculiarly dangerous
and atrocious. In point of law, it would be necessary to prove a publication; that the prisoner
did in some way or other exhibit or circulate one or more of the libels; and with that view
he should connect evidence that he was found with many similar libels of a most dangerous and
inflammatory tendency, with the words "read and circulate" upon them, in writing which Crandall
admitted to be his own handwriting; and that he gave different and contradictory accounts of
how he came by them, and how they came here in his possession. Also, that similar libels were
dropped into the post-office, and sent by nobody could tell whom, to almost every body in the
District. After proving these facts, he said he should carry the libels before the jury, and
let them judge whether the prisoner could have been here with any good motive, or have such
a mass of obnoxious papers with any good purpose.

Mr. Coxe wished to state, at the outset, what he understood to be the law. The libels charged
were not upon individuals, nor the Government, but were said to be designed to excite the whole
community; and therefore publication or circulation with the intent charged, would be necessary
to sustain the prosecution. Possession, however bad or dangerous the libels might be, was no
crime; any man might have and keep the worst libels with entire innocence; and in this case,
it would be no evidence of malicious or dangerous intent that he loaned or gave one to respectable
individuals, who would not be injured and would not do any injury to others.

Henry King testified that about last June or July, he knew Crandall in Georgetown, where he
came and took an office as a botanist, and followed that business.

Key handed him a pamphlet, and asked if he had seen any like it; stating, upon objection being
made by Coxe, that his object was to show that Crandall gave the witness such a paper to read.

Coxe objected to the testimony, as furnishing no ground of inference that the act of publication
by giving the paper to a respectable white free man, was intended to create excitement, or
was the result of a malicious intent.

Key said he would connect this with other circumstances to show the intent. It was proper evidence
to go to the jury, and they must judge what the intent really was.

The Court ruled that the evidence was admissible; and,

Henry King went on to testify: He was in Crandall's office in Georgetown, some time in July
last. Received from Dr. Crandall a pamphlet similar to the one now shown him, called the "Anti-Slavery
Reporter." There was something written on it, but can't say what it was. He left it at Linthicum's
store. Some one took it away from the store and it was lost.

Judge Morsell. Did Crandall make any remark, when you took the pamphlet?

Witness. No. Witness was looking at the botanical preparations in the office, and seeing this
and other tracts on the subject of abolition lying about, he took up one and remarked, "the
latitude is too far south for these things;" "they won't do here;" but, "by your leave, I will
take this and read it over." Crandall was at the time engaged in taking out preparations of
plants from a large trunk. There were three of these pamphlets on the table, but don't know
whether they were taken from the trunk or not. Crandall used newspapers, or something like
them, as wrappers for the preserved plants. Witness is not a slaveholder himself. Witness after
looking over the pamphlet threw it on the desk in Linthicum's store, and afterwards threw it
under the counter. When the excitement arose, looked for it and could not find it. Had thought
nothing about it till then. Did not remember what words were written on the pamphlet. Crandall
did not call his attention to the tracts. He asked Crandall for the pamphlet, as a loan, and
took it away with Crandall's leave. Crandall never asked for it afterwards. He saw something
written on the pamphlet, and recollects that Crandall at his examination in the jail, admitted
the words, "please read and circulate" to have been written by himself. He saw in Crandall's
shop two or three of them, not more than three. The plants were enveloped in large newspapers.
Crandall had been in Georgetown about three weeks or a month, at this time. Witness was frequently
in the shop. Crandall was much engaged in gathering and preserving plants.

Key proposed to read from the pamphlet.

Coxe objected that the publication, with the malicious intent charged, had not been proved,
and that it was necessary before going into any other evidence to make out the fact of publication.
The paper could not be read to show the intent, when no evidence of publication is offered
to show such a publication as is charged; and he cited various authorities of no interest to
the general reader.

Key argued that possession alone of a known published libel, was evidence of publication sufficient
to call upon the defendant to show how he came by it. The intent was to be inferred from the
character of the libel: and the evidence he had already given was sufficient prima facia evidence
to put the prisoner to his defence, and allow the libel to be read to the jury. He meant to
show other circumstances which would show the intent. If the evidence of having given one to
a witness, and having in possession a bundle of other similar libels was not enough, then a
man has only to keep them on hand, and take care not to give them away; but he may tell every
body that he has them, and advertise them from one end of the country to the other; and may
give them to every body who chooses to call for them, without any danger from the law.

The Court called King again, when he stated that Crandall permitted him to take away the pamphlet
at his request, reluctantly; that it was a private office, without any sign, or indication
of business, or any thing shown for sale at the windows, nor any thing for sale in the shop.
The pamphlets might have been thrown down in the confusion of unpacking; and he never saw but
three persons in the shop, which was usually kept locked. Crandall was mostly out collecting
plants; and he once saw him describing some specimens to Mr. Cruickshank and Doctor King; he
understood Crandall had given out that he was about to teach botany.

The counsel for the defence here contended, that this was not sufficient evidence of malicious
publication. The delivery to King was no more than simple possession in the eye of the law,
and was compatible with entire innocence; and possession alone was no offence.

Key cited a number of authorities to show that prima facia evidence of publication only, was
necessary to let the libel go to the jury. Here was a publication--the jury must judge of the
intent--with the handwriting of the prisoner endorsed with the words "read and circulate;"
and he made the point that when a libel is printed, and a copy is found in possession of the
prisoner, it is prima facia evidence to allow the libel to be read. To prove that the words
were on the libel given to King, in the prisoner's handwriting, he called

William Robinson, who testified, that he saw the pamphlet which King said he got of Crandall
in Linthicum's shop, and that the words "read and circulate" were written on it.

The Court, deeming this to be prima facia evidence of publication, permitted the pamphlet to
be read to the jury, or so much thereof as either party might think proper to be read, and
pertinent to the issue.

Key was about to read the libel.

Coxe objected, that it was not the libel proved to have been given to King, for that was lost.

King was called again and said the paper he had was lost; how or where he did not know; but
he identified the one handed to him as an exact copy of the same pamphlet; but said he could
not say what writing was on the one he had. He might have remembered if he had not seen some
with and some without writing.

C. T. Coote was one of the examining magistrates in the jail when Crandall was arrested. He
recollected that King pointed out one with the writing on, as similar to the one he had, and
that Crandall admitted the writing to be his.

B. K. Morsell, another of the magistrates, recollected that King stated distinctly, that the
words "read and circulate" were on the paper when he got it; and that Crandall said it was
his handwriting, but he did not recollect Crandall's saying it was put on a year before.

The question was here raised and argued by the counsel on both sides, whether any evidence
could be given of any libels, except those of which the publication was proved, unless they
referred distinctly to the libels charged in the indictment.

The Court was of opinion that the United States could not give in evidence to the jury, for
the purpose of proving the intent of the defendant in publishing the libel stated in the first
count, any papers subsequently published by the defendant, or found in his possession unpublished
by him, which would be libels, and might be substantive subjects of public prosecution, if
published.

Thruston, J., differed with the majority and delivered the following opinion:

There are five counts in the indictment charging, in various ways, the publishing by the traverser
of sundry libels with intent to create sedition and excite insurrection among the slaves and
free blacks. The first count in the indictment charges the publication of a certain libel,
not otherwise described or set out in the count, than by selecting certain paragraphs in the
supposed libellous pamphlet, and setting them out severally in the count. To this count only
and to the libellous matter charged thereon has any evidence of publication been given. The
Attorney for the United States has moved the court to be permitted to give in evidence to the
jury other printed pamphlets of the same character and on the same subject, and which the traverser
acknowledged to represent his sentiments, as evidence of malice on the part of the traverser
in the publication of the libel in the first count; the libel in the first count being one
of those which, with the others now asked to be given in evidence, the traverser acknowledged
contained his sentiments.

That is, that it is competent to prove malice in the publication of one libel by others found
in the possession of the traverser on the same subject, of which no proof of publication has
been offered. The motion to admit the said alleged libellous pamphlets in evidence has been
supported by no precedent or adjudged case, but from analogies drawn from proceedings in other
cases, and from the expediency or necessity of punishing the enormous crime of which the defendant
stands accused; enormous, we all admit the crime to be, if substantiated, but which judges
cannot punish but under the rules and principles of law. Enormous as the offence is, it is
questionable whether from public considerations it is not better that the accused should escape
punishment, than that the law should be perverted to obtain his conviction.

There being no authorities cited to sustain the motion of the Attorney for the United States,
we have no other guide to enlighten and direct us than the established principles and rules
of law in criminal proceedings. I take it to be well settled, that in indictments for libels,
publication is the gist and essence of the crime; that having in one's possession one or more
seditious or libellous writings, whether written or printed, if their contents be not communicated
or made known to one or more persons, then the possessor is not criminal in a legal point of
view. It is true that Hawkins was cited to prove that having in one's possession a known published
libel is prima facie evidence of publication against such possessors; admitting this authority,
it seems not to touch the case before us, unless those libels were published within this District.
They purport on the face of them to have been printed in New York, and there published, so
far as sending them abroad, within that state, from the printing office, and putting them into
the hands of others amounts to a publication within this District; and no evidence has been
offered that the traverser ever distributed a single copy or imparted their contents to any
person within this District saving the one charged in the first count. Hawkins surely did not
mean that having a copy of a libel published in a foreign country in one's possession, was
evidence of publication in another state or country where the possessor of such copy may be
found: for example, a libel against the British government printed and published in France
would be no publication in England, to charge a person found in England with one or more copies
of such libels in his possession, with the guilt of publishing such libel against the laws
of England. It is true, in times of great excitement in England, when the rebellious principles
of France were gaining ground and endangering the very existence of the government, the Scottish
courts did condemn and send to Botany bay, Muir and Palmer for having in their possession a
printed copy of Thomas Paine's Rights of Man. It is very long since I read the case; indeed
shortly after we first obtained the information of their trial, and shortly indeed after the
trial; but I have never heard the judgment of the court in their case spoken of but with reprobation.
I cannot remember the particulars of the case. The evidence was, that the book had been reprinted
and published in Great Britain. If so, that case is stronger than that of having a printed
copy in possession of a libel published only in a foreign country; and so far, if such be the
fact, it is sustained by the dictum in Hawkins, but this dictum is not itself sustained, as
far as I could judge from the authorities cited at the bar, from Hawkins himself, nor by any
adjudged case. I think I may boldly assert, then, that the merely having in possession a libel
printed and published in a foreign country only, is not an indictable offence here, and publication
of the same libel here.

Let us then examine how far these alleged libels, which, although not subjects of criminal
prosecution here, can be made use of to sustain the publication, or prove, or aid in proving,
the criminal intent or malice in the publication of another libel charged in the first count,
and of the publication of which some evidence has been offered to the jury. Now the libels
in the first count, of which evidence of publication has been given to the jury, is of itself
libellous, or it is not; if it be libellous and published, the law deduces the criminal intent
from the libellous matter itself, and therefore requires no aid from other libellous writings
to sustain it: if it be not libellous, it cannot be made so by showing other libellous writings
of the traverser, of which he is not accused or charged in the indictment. I mean the libellous
matter itself in the libel is, in the eye of the law, proof of criminal intent, if it be published,
unless the traverser can rebut this inference of law by proving his innocence of any criminal
intent, by some sufficient excuse, as that some person stole the copy from him and published
it without his knowledge or consent. But the Attorney for the United States urged that these
pamphlets, indicating the one charged in the first count, contained or expressed opinions which
coincided with his sentiments on the subject matter of them; and this was urged as a reason
for admitting them in evidence. This, in my view, amounts to nothing more than that he appropriated
to himself and adopted the thoughts of others. What proof could this appropriation or adoption
afford of a malicious intent in their publication? Every man has an unquestionable right to
his own moral or religious sentiments: there is no crime in this: it would be criminal to restrain
any man in this country in his own, or in adopting the moral or religious opinions of others,
if he please; it is criminal only when he attempts to propagate them, and only when they have
a tendency to disturb the peace of society--to invade the general rights of property--and are
most essentially criminal, if they have a tendency to produce the dreadful results charged
in the indictment. But bad as the tendency of those writings may be, and unquestionably are,
if truly portrayed in the indictment, I know not how much less danger would result, if, led
away by our feelings, we bend the rules and principles of law from expediency, or the supposed
political necessity of convicting the accused. The present crisis may pass without leaving
any dangerous consequences behind it. The good sense and virtue of the people, and the fear
of punishment in transgressors, will check the progress of these alarming doctrines; but if
we invade the panoply which the law has provided for the protection of the accused against
arbitrary or vindictive judgments, we establish precedents, the evil consequences of which
cannot be calculated. The criminal intent, then, does not consist in the writing or possession
of a written or printed libel, but in the publishing it. It is not easy to conceive how the
criminal intent of publishing one libel, can be proved by the having in possession other libels
not published, any more than you would be permitted to prove a man guilty of stealing one horse,
because you might prove that he had a propensity to horse-stealing. But you would not be allowed
to introduce such proof. The quo animo with which a horse is taken, is as necessary in an indictment
for horse stealing, as for publishing a libel. Now, as I observed before, if the matter of
the pamphlet charged in the first count in the indictment is libellous, does not the acknowledgment
of the traverser that the sentiment in the several pamphlets coincided with his own, embrace
in it the sentiments in the pamphlets charged in the first count, and of which evidence has
been offered of publication? If so, does not this libel of itself afford sufficient evidence
of malice, without resorting to the matter of other pamphlets not charged? Then why resort
to them? The traverser was not apprised from this first count, that he was responsible for
any libel or libellous matter, except what was contained in the libel set out in said count.
If you are permitted in order to prove malice in publishing the libel in the first count, to
read to the jury the libellous matter of other alleged libels, what will be the consequence?
The matter in those other libels may be of a more aggravated or inflammatory character than
in that set out in the first count. Is it not evident, if such be the case, that the jury may
be influenced to convict the traverser, not by the matter of the libel with which he is charged,
but from that of other libels with which he is not charged? Surely, if malice in the publication
of a libel be an inference of law, that inference must be drawn only from the libel charged
and published, not from other writings which are not libellous because not published. As I
observed before, if the paper charged in the first count be of itself libellous, the criminal
intent of publication is to be inferred from the confession of the traverser that he approved
of the sentiments contained in it. If such inference can be drawn from such confession it can
as well be sustained from the matter of this libel, as from that of any number of others, and
there is no need to resort to them for such inference; if the matter of such papers be not
libellous, no number of other libels found in the traverser's possession, however coinciding
with his own opinions, can sustain the libel charged.

Again: if the matter of those pamphlets, which the Attorney for the United States has moved
the court to be permitted to lay before the jury, be libellous, may not the traverser be hereafter
arraigned upon them if proof shall be had of their publication? This is possible; almost probable,
if his zeal in the cause be so great as has been attempted to be proved. Then might he not
be convicted by their instrumentality in the present prosecution, and again in a subsequent
prosecution for publishing those very libels? I thought the court had decided this point in
a former opinion in this case, where they said they could not be evidence if they were of themselves
indictable writings.

Again: if the proof of malice in the publication of the charged libel be not complete, can
it be made so by the production of other pamphlets or libels not published? Is it an inference
of law, that having such libels in the traverser's possession furnishes any proof of malice
in the publication of the charged libel? I question the legal logic of such an argument. It
was almost as easy to publish by distributing fifty pamphlets as one. Now if but one of fifty
was given out, is it not as probable that he did not desire to publish them, as that he did?
Now an inference from facts, or acts, is matter of law, and I should hesitate to tell the jury
that the traverser having in his possession fifty other libels, or any lesser or greater number,
which he might have published with the same ease as he published one, is proof of malice in
publishing that one. An inference to be drawn from proved facts or circumstances is something
like a corollary drawn from a previously demonstrated theorem in mathematics.

I wish it was as certain and clear. An inference deduced from a proved theorem in geometry
is unquestionable. Every body will agree to it. An inference drawn by law from previously proved
facts or circumstances, is doubtful at best. Two discreet judges may and often do disagree
in regard to it. Do we not hear every day, in this court, of the most wise and able judges--of
the venerated Hale himself--admonishing courts and juries not to lend a willing ear to them;
at least against circumstantial evidence, which is the same thing. How many almost irresistable
cases of inferences drawn from pregnant facts have been shown, in which time proved the fallacy
of such inferences, and that many an innocent man has been consigned to an ignominious death
by circumstantial or (which is the same thing) inferential evidence, and still so strong were
the facts and circumstances in the very cases cited by them, (where time proved the innocence
of the accused who had suffered the penalty of the law), that under the same circumstances
I should permit the same evidence to go to the jury--but in the case before the court those
admonitions are well worth considering. We are asked to admit certain pamphlets said to be
of similar libellous tendency, and proved by the confession of the traverser to coincide with
his opinions, as the one charged in the indictment, and of the publication of which evidence
has been offered to the jury, although such pamphlets were never out of the possession of the
traverser nor shown to any one, to prove malice in the traverser in the publication of another
pamphlet charged to have been published by him in the first count in the indictment. I do not
distinctly see the legal inference of malice in having in his possession those unpublished
pamphlets. He could have published them, if this malice was in his heart. Why did he not? Is
it not in evidence that when he permitted one of those pamphlets to be taken from his counter
and read by Mr. King, that he did it with reluctance, and that he was warned of the danger
of bringing such writings so far South? Is it unreasonable to suppose that he was deterred
by the warning? Taking then the whole evidence together, although it proved great indiscretion
in the traverser, and great guilt had he propagated his writings--and that he would have deserved
the most condign punishment had he had the temerity to have published them--yet, if I am to
take the whole of the testimony in the case, I should be compelled to say, that in withholding
the other pamphlets from the view of others, or of any other, he was influenced by the counsel
he had received, and was afraid to publish them; and that, under the circumstances in which
he permitted the first pamphlet to be taken from his counter and published, if such permission
be a publication, that he then was aware of the danger he was in, and that under such circumstances
the having in his possession other pamphlets of a similar character, (if the publication by
permitting the pamphlets charged in the first count to be taken from his counter and read by
Mr. King, be not taking the contents of the pamphlet into view of itself a malicious publication),
it cannot be made so by having other pamphlets of similar tendency in his possession, which
he did not publish nor attempt to publish.

