Among the early whalers it was customary to have six boats to a ship, and six men to a boat,
besides the harpooner. What at that time was considered an improved method in killing whales,
consisted in discharging the harpoon, from a kind of swivel; but it was soon found to be attended
with too much inconvenience to be much practised, and the muscular arms and steady nerves of
the harpooner, have ever since performed the daring duty, of first striking the whale. The
ropes attached to the harpoon, used to be about 200 fathoms in length, and some instances occurred,
that all the lines belonging to six boats, were fastened together and ran out by one whale,
the animal descending in nearly a perpendicular line from the surface. Instead of going prepared
to bring home a ship load of oil, it was customary to bring only the blubber, and instead of
trying the oil out and putting it into casks on board, the fat of the whale was cut up into
suitable pieces, pressed hard in tubs carried out for the purpose, and in this situation was
the return cargo received at home.

Of so great consequence was the whale fishery considered to Great Britain, that a bounty of
40s. for every ton, when the ship was 200 tons, or upwards, was given to the crews of ships
engaged in that business in the Greenland seas, under certain conditions. But this bounty was
found to draw too largely upon the treasury; and while the subject was under discussion in
the British Parliament, in 1786, it was stated that the sums which that country had paid in
bounties to the Greenland fishers, amounted to 1,265,461 pounds sterling. Six thousand seamen
were employed in that fishery, and each cost the government £13 10s. per annum. The great encouragement
given to that branch of commerce, caused so large a number to engage in it, that the oil market
became glutted, and it was found necessary to export considerable quantities.

In 1786, the number of British ships engaged in the whale fishery to Davis's Strait and the
Greenland seas, was 139, besides 15 from Scotland. In 1787, notwithstanding the bounty had
been diminished, the number of English ships was 217, and the following year 222.

The charter right of the Island of Nantucket, was bought by Thomas Mayhew, of Watertown, of
Joseph Ferrick, steward to Lord Sterling, in 1641; and afterwards sold to Tristram Coffin,
and his associates, who settled upon it in 1659. On the 10th of May, 1660, Sachems, Wonnook,
and Nickannoose, for and in behalf of the nations of the Island, in consideration of the sum
of 26l. sterling, conveyed by deed, about half of the Island, to the first ten purchasers,
who afterwards took in other associates.

Whaling from Nantucket, was first carried on from the shore in boats. In 1672, James Loper
entered into a contract with the inhabitants of the Island, for the purpose of prosecuting
the whale fishery, by which it appears that James Loper agreed to be one third in the enterprize,
and sundry other people of the Island, the other two thirds, in every thing connected with
the undertaking. It was further stipulated, that for every whale killed by any one of the contracting
party, the town should receive five shillings, and for the encouragement of James Loper, the
town granted him ten acres of land in some convenient situation, and liberty for the commonage
of three cows, twenty sheep and one horse, with necessary wood and water for his use, on condition
that he should follow the trade of whaling for two years, build upon his land, &c. &c.

Thus it will be seen that the commencement of whaling at Nantucket, was on a very small scale,
and practised only along the shores of the Island;--whereas, at this time, our ships leave
no seas unexplored in pursuit of these monsters of the deep. We might pursue the subject through
the various stages of improvement up to this time, but it would swell this introduction beyond
the limits designed. It is proper, however, to observe that the present number of ships employed
in the whale fishery from Nantucket, is about 70, averaging about 350 tons each, and manned
by about 1500 seamen. William Beetle, (mate,) John Lumbert, (2d mate,) Nathaniel Fisher, (3d
mate,) Gilbert Smith, (boat steerer,) Samuel B. Comstock, do. Stephen Kidder, seaman, Peter
C. Kidder, do. Columbus Worth, do. Rowland Jones, do. John Cleveland, do. Constant Lewis, do.
Holden Henman, do. Jeremiah Ingham, do. Joseph Ignasius Prass, do. Cyrus M. Hussey, cooper,
Rowland Coffin, do. George Comstock, seaman, and William Lay, do.

On the 15th day of December, we sailed from Edgarton, on a whaling voyage, to the Pacific Ocean,
but in working out, having carried away the cross-jack-yard, we returned to port, and after
having refitted and sent aloft another, we sailed again on the 19th, and on the same day anchored
in Holmes' Hole. On the following day a favourable opportunity offering to proceed to sea,
we got under way, and after having cleared the land, discharged the pilot, made sail, and performed
the necessary duties of stowing the anchors, unbending and coiling away the cables, &c.--On
the 1st of January 1823, we experienced a heavy gale from N. W. which was but the first in
the catalogue of difficulties we were fated to encounter.--As this was our first trial of a
seaman's life, the scene presented to our view, "mid the howling storm," was one of terrific
grandeur, as well as of real danger. On the 9th of January we made the Cape Verd Islands, bearing
S. W. twenty-five miles distant, and on the 17th, crossed the Equator. On the 29th of the same
month we saw sperm whales, lowered our boats, and succeeded in taking one; the blubber of which,
when boiled out, yielded us seventy-five barrels of oil. Pursuing our voyage, on the twenty-third
of February we passed the Falkland Islands, and about the 5th of March, doubled the great promontory
of South America, Cape Horn, and stood to the Northward.

We saw whales once only before we reached the Sandwich Islands, which we made on the first
of May early in the morning. When drawing in with the Island of Hawaii about four in the afternoon,
the man at the mast head gave notice that he saw a shoal of black fish on the lee bow; which
we soon found to be canoes on their way to meet us. It falling calm at this time prevented
their getting along side until night fall, which they did, at a distance of more than three
leagues from the land. We received from them a very welcome supply of potatoes, sugar cane,
yams, cocoanuts, bananas, fish, &c. for which we gave them in return, pieces of iron hoop,
nails, and similar articles. We stood off and on during the next day, and after obtaining a
sufficient supply of vegetables and fruit, we shaped our course for Oahu, at which place we
arrived on the following day, and after lying there twenty hours, sailed for the coast of Japan,
in company with the whaling ships Palladium of Boston, and Pocahontas of Falmouth; from which
ships we parted company when two days out.--After cruising in the Japan seas several months,
and obtaining five hundred and fifty barrels of oil, we again shaped our course for the Sandwich
Islands, to obtain a supply of vegetables, &c.

While lying at Oahu, six of the men deserted in the night; two of them having been re-taken
were put in irons, but one of them having found means to divest himself of his irons, set the
other at liberty, and both escaped.

