Thus George was safely started upon the same career as his father, and this was to him a source
of satisfaction which he did not attempt to deny, either to himself of to any one else. George
was a cautious young man, who came of a frugal and saving stock. He had always been taught
that it was his primary duty to make certain of a reasonable amount of comfort. From his earliest
days, he had been taught to regard material success as the greatest goal in life, and he would
never have dreamed of engaging himself to a girl without money. But when he had the good fortune
to meet one who possessed desirable personal qualities in addition to money, he was not in
the least barred from appreciating those qualities. They were, so to speak, the sauce which
went with the meat, and it seemed to him that in this case the sauce was of the very best.

George--a big fellow of twenty-six, with large, round eyes and a good-natured countenance--was
full blooded, well fed, with a hearty laugh which spoke of unimpaired contentment, a soul untroubled
in its deeps. He seemed to himself the luckiest fellow in the whole round world; he could not
think what he had done to deserve the good fortune of possessing such a girl as Henriette.
He was ordinarily of a somewhat sentimental turn--easily influenced by women and sensitive
to their charms. Moreover, his relationship with Lizette had softened him. He had learned to
love the young working girl, and now Henriette, it seemed, was to reap the benefit of his experience
with her.

In fact, he found himself always with memories of Lizette in his relationships with the girl
who was to be his wife. When the engagement was announced, and he claimed his first kiss from
his bride-to-be, as he placed a ring upon her finger, he remembered the first time he had kissed
Lizette, and a double blush suffused his round countenance. When he walked arm and arm with
Henriette in the garden he remembered how he had walked just so with the other girl, and he
was interested to compare the words of the two. He remembered what a good time had had when
he had taken Lizette and her little family for a picnic upon one of the excursion steamers
which run down the River Seine. Immediately he decided that he would like to take Henriette
on such a picnic, and he persuaded an aunt of Henriette's to go with her as a chaperon. George
took his bride-to-be to the same little inn where he had lunch before.

Thus he was always haunted by memories, some of which made him cheerful and some of which made
him mildly sad. He soon got used to the idea, and did not find it awkward, except when he had
to suppress the impulse to tell Henriette something which Lizette had said, or some funny incident
which had happened in the home of the little family. Sometimes he found himself thinking that
it was a shame to have to suppress these impulses. There must be something wrong, he thought,
with a social system which made it necessary for him to hide a thing which was so obvious and
so sensible. Here he was, a man twenty-six years of age; he could not have afforded to marry
earlier, nor could he, as he thought, have been expected to lead a continent life. And he had
really loved Lizette; she was really a good girl. Yet, if Henriette had got any idea of it,
she would have been horrified and indignant--she might even have broken off the engagement.

And then, too, there was Henriette's father, a personage of great dignity and importance. M.
Loches was a deputy of the French Parliament, from a district in the provinces. He was a man
of upright life, and a man who made a great deal of that upright life--keeping it on a pedestal
where everyone might observe it. It was impossible to imagine M. Loches in an undignified or
compromising situation--such as the younger man found himself facing in the matter of Lizette.

