THE SCHOOL-HOUSE

III. THE INVISIBLE BATTLE

IV.  NIKITIN

V.   FIRST MOVE TO THE ENEMY

VI.  THE RETREAT

VII. ONE NIGHT

PART TWO

I.   THE LOVERS

II.  MARIE IVANOVNA

III. THE FOREST

IV.  FOUR?

V.   THE DOOR CLOSES BEHIND THEM

       *       *       *       *       *

PART ONE

CHAPTER I

SPRING IN THE TRAIN

His was the first figure to catch my eye that evening in Petrograd; he stood under the dusky
lamp in the vast gloomy Warsaw station, with exactly the expression that I was afterwards to
know so well, impressed not only upon his face but also upon the awkwardness of his arms that
hung stiffly at his side, upon the baggy looseness of his trousers at the knees, the unfastened
straps of his long black military boots. His face, with its mild blue eyes, straggly fair moustache,
expressed anxiety and pride, timidity and happiness, apprehension and confidence. He was in
that first moment of my sight of him as helpless, as unpractical, and as anxious to please
as any lost dog in the world--and he was also as proud as Lucifer. I knew him at once for an
Englishman; his Russian uniform only accented the cathedral-town, small public-school atmosphere
of his appearance. He was exactly what I had expected. He was not, however, alone, and that
surprised me. By his side stood a girl, obviously Russian, wearing her Sister's uniform with
excitement and eager anticipation, her eyes turning restlessly from one part of the platform
to another, listening with an impatient smile to the remarks of her companion.

From where I stood I could hear his clumsy, hesitating Russian and her swift, preoccupied replies.
I came up to them.

"Mr. Trenchard?" I asked.

He blushed, stammered, held out his hand, missed mine, blushed the more, laughed nervously.

"I'm glad ... I knew ... I hope...."

I could feel that the girl's eyes were upon me with all the excited interest of one who is
expecting that every moment of her new wonderful experience will be of a stupendous, even immortal
quality.

"I am Sister Marie Ivanovna, and you are, of course, Mr. Durward," she said. "They are all
waiting for you--expecting you--you're late, you know!" She laughed and moved forward as though
she would accompany me to the group by the train. We went to the train together.

"I should tell you," she said quickly and suddenly with nervousness, "that we are engaged,
Mr. Trenchard and I--only last night. We have been working at the same hospital.... I don't
know any one," she continued in the same intimate, confiding whisper. "I would be frightened
terribly if I were not so excited. Ah! there's Anna Mihailovna.... I know her, of course. It
was through, her aunt--the one who's on Princess Soboleff's train--that I had the chance of
going with you. Oh! I'm so happy that I had the chance--if I hadn't had it...."

We were soon engulfed now. I drew a deep breath and surrendered myself. The tall, energetic
figure of Anna Mihailovna, the lady to whose practical business gifts and unlimited capacity
for compelling her friends to surrender their last bow and button in her service we owed the
existence of our Red Cross unit, was to be seen like a splendid flag waving its followers on
to glory and devotion. We were devoted, all of us. Even I, whose second departure to the war
this was, had after the feeblest resistance surrendered myself to the drama of the occasion.
I should have been no gentleman had I done otherwise.

After the waters had closed above my head for, perhaps, five minutes of strangled, half-protesting,
half-willing surrender I was suddenly compelled, by what agency I know not, to struggle to
the surface, to look around me, and then quite instantly to forget my immersion. The figure
of Trenchard, standing exactly as I had left him, his hands uneasily at his sides, a half-anxious,
half-confident smile on his lips, his eyes staring straight in front of him, absolutely compelled
my attention. I had forgotten him, we had all forgotten him, his own lady had forgotten him.
I withdrew from the struggling, noisy group and stepped back to his side. It was then that,
as I now most clearly remember, I was conscious of something else, was aware that there was
a strange faint blue light in the dark clumsy station, a faint throbbing glow, that, like the
reflection of blue water on a sunlit ceiling, hovered and hung above the ugly shabbiness of
the engines and trucks, the rails with scattered pieces of paper here and there, the iron arms
that supported the vast glass roof, the hideous funnel that hung with its gaping mouth above
the water-tank. The faint blue light was the spring evening--the spring evening that, encouraged
by God knows what brave illusion, had penetrated even these desperate fastnesses. A little
breeze accompanied it and the dirty pieces of paper blew to and fro; then suddenly a shaft
of light quivered upon the blackness, quivered and spread like a golden fan, then flooded the
huge cave with trembling ripples of light. There was even, I dare swear, at this safe distance,
a smell of flowers in the air.

"It's a most lovely ..." Trenchard said, smiling at me, "spring here ... I find...."

I was compelled by some unexpected sense of fatherly duty to be practical.

"You've got your things?" I said. "You've found your seat?"

"Well, I didn't know ..." he stammered.

"Where are they?" I asked him.

He was not quite sure where they were. He stood, waving his hands, whilst the golden sunlight
rippled over his face. I was suddenly irritated.

"But please," I said, "there isn't much time. Four of us men have a compartment together. Just
show me where your things are and then I'll introduce you." He seemed reluctant to move, as
though the spot that he had chosen was the only safe one in the whole station; but I forced
him forward, found his bags, had them placed in their carriage, then turned to introduce him
to his companions.

Anna Mihailovna had said to me: "This detachment will be older than the last. Doctor Nikitin--he'll
take that other doctor's place, the one who had typhus--and Andrey Vassilievitch--you've known
him for years. He talks a great deal but he's sympathetic and such a good business man. He'll
be useful. Then there's an Englishman; I don't know much about him, except that he's been working
for three months at the English Hospital. He's not a correspondent, never written a line in
his life. I only saw him for a moment, but he seemed sympathetic...."

Anna Mihailovna, as is well known to all of us, finds every one sympathetic simply because
she has so much to do and so many people to see that she has no time to go deeply into things.
If you have no time for judging character you must have some good common rule to go by. I had
known little Andrey Vassilievitch for some years and had found him tiresome. Finally, I did
not care about the possibility of an Englishman. Perhaps I had wished (through pride) to remain
the only Englishman in our "Otriad." I had made friends with them all, I was at home with them.
Another Englishman might transplant me in their affections. Russians transfer, with the greatest
ease, their emotions from one place to another; or he might be a failure and so damage my country's
reputation. Some such vain and stupid prejudice I had. I know that I looked upon our new additions
with disfavour.

There, at any rate, Dr. Nikitin and little Andrey Vassilievitch were, and a strange contrast
they made. Nikitin's size would have compelled attention anywhere, even in Russia, which is,
of course, a country of big men. It was not only that he was tall and broad; the carriage of
his head, the deep blackness of his beard, his eyebrows, his eyes, the sure independence with
which he held himself, as though he were indifferent to the whole world (and that I know that
he was), must anywhere have made him remarked and remembered. He looked now immensely fine
in his uniform, which admirably suited him. He stood, without his greatcoat, his hand on his
sword, his eyes half-closed as though he were almost asleep, and a faint half-smile on his
face as though he were amused at his thoughts. I remember that my first impression of him was
that he was so completely beneath the domination of some idea or remembrance that, at that
moment, no human being could touch him. When I took Trenchard up to him I was so conscious
of his remoteness that I was embarrassed and apologetic.

And if I was aware of Nikitin's remoteness I was equally conscious of Andrey Vassilievitch's
proximity. He was a little man of a round plump figure; he wore a little imperial and sharp,
inquisitive moustaches; his hair was light brown and he was immensely proud of it. In Petrograd
he was always very smartly dressed. He bought his clothes in London and his plump hands had
a movement familiar to all his friends, a flicker of his hands to his coat, his waistcoat,
his trousers, to brush off some imaginary speck of dust. It was obvious now that he had given
very much thought to his uniform. It fitted him perfectly, his epaulettes glittered, his boots
shone, his sword was magnificent, but he looked, in spite of all his efforts, exactly what
he was, a rich successful merchant; never was there any one less military. He had dressed up,
one might suppose, for some fancy-dress ball.

I could see at once that he was ill at ease, anxious as ever to please every one, to like every
one, to be liked in return, but unable, because of some thought that troubled him, to give
his whole attention to this business of pleasing.

He greeted me with a warmth that was really genuine although he bestowed it upon his merest
acquaintances. His great dream in life was a universal popularity--that every one should love
him. At any rate at that time I thought that to be his dream--I know now that there was something
else.

"But Ivan Petrovitch!... This is delightful! Here we all are! What pleasure! Thank God, we're
all here, no delays, nothing unfortunate. An Englishman?... Indeed, I am very glad! Your friend
speaks Russian? Not very much, but enough?... You know Vladimir Stepanovitch? Dr. Nikitin ...
my friend Meester Durward. Also Meester?... ah, I beg your pardon, Tronsart. Two Englishmen
in our Otriad ... the alliance, yes, delightful!"

Nikitin slowly opened his eyes, shook hands with me and with Trenchard, said that he was glad
to see us and was silent again. Trenchard stammered and blushed, said something in very bad
Russian, then glanced anxiously, with an eager light in his mild blue eyes, in the direction
of the excited crowd that chattered and stirred about the train. There was something, in that
look of his, that both touched and irritated me. "What does he come for?" I thought to myself.
"With his bad Russian and his English prejudices. Of course he'll be lonely and then he'll
be in every one's way."

I could remember, readily enough, some of the loneliness of those first months of my own, when
both war and the Russians had differed so from my expectations. This fellow looked just the
figure for high romantic pictures. He had, doubtless, seen Russia in the colours of the pleasant
superficial books of travel that have of late, in England, been so popular, books that see
in the Russian a blessed sort of Idiot unable to read or write but vitally conscious of God,
and in Russia a land of snow, ikons, mushrooms and pilgrims. Yes, he would be disappointed,
unhappy, and tiresome. Upon myself would fall the chief burden of his trouble--I should have
enough upon my shoulders without him.

The golden fan had vanished from the station walls. A dim pale glow, with sparkles as of gold
dust shining here and there upon that grimy world, faltered and trembled before the rattle
and roar that threatened it. Nevertheless, Spring was with us at our departure. As the bells
rang, as the ladies of our Committee screamed and laughed, as Anna Mihailovna showered directions
and advice upon us, as we crowded backwards into our compartment before the first jolt of the
departing train, Spring was with us ... but of course we were all of us too busy to be aware of it.

Nikitin, I remember, reduced us very quickly, for all practical purposes, to a company of three.
He lowered one of the upper beds, climbed into it, stretched himself out and lay in silence
staring at the carriage-roof. His body was a shadow in the half-light, touched once and again
by the gesture of the swinging lamp, that swept him out of darkness and back into it again.
The remaining three of us did not during either that evening or the next day make much progress.
At times there would of course be tea, and then the two Sisters who were in a compartment close
at hand joined us.

Marie Ivanovna, Trenchard's lady, was quieter than she had been before. Her face, which now
seemed younger than ever, wore a look of important seriousness as though she were conscious
of the indecency of her earlier excitement. She spoke very little, but no one could be in her
presence without feeling the force of her vitality like some hammer, silent but of immense
power, beating relentlessly upon the atmosphere. Its effect was the stronger in that one realised
how utterly at present she was unable to deal with it. Her very helplessness was half of her
power--half of her danger too. She was most certainly not beautiful; her nose was too short,
her mouth too large, her forehead, from which her black hair was brushed straight back, too
high. Her complexion was pale and when she was confused, excited, or pleased, the colour came
into her face in a faint flush that ebbed and flowed but never reached its full glow. Her hands
were thin and pale. It was her eyes that made her so young; they were so large and round and
credulous, scornful sometimes with the scorn of the very young for all the things in the world
that they have not experienced--but young especially in all their urgent capacity for life,
in their confidence of carrying through all the demands that the High Gods might make upon
them. I knew as I looked at her that at present her eagerness for experience was stronger,
by far, than her eagerness for any single human being. I wondered whether Trenchard knew that.
He was, beyond discussion, most desperately in love; the love of a shy man who has for so many
years wondered and dreamed and finds, when the reality comes to him, that it is more, far more,
than he had expected. When she came in to us he sat very quietly by her side and talked, if
he talked at all, to the other Sister, a stout comfortable woman with no illusions, no expectations,
immense capacity and an intensely serious attitude to food and drink.

Trenchard let his eyes rest upon his lady's face whenever she was unaware, but I could see
that he was desperately anxious not to offend her. His attitude to all women, even to Anna
Petrovna, the motherly Sister, was that of a man who has always blundered in their company,
who has been mocked, perhaps, for his mistakes. I could see, however, that his pride in his
new possession, his pride and his happiness, carried with it an absolute assurance of his security.
He had no doubts at all. He seemed, in this, even younger than she.

Through all that long Spring day we wandered on--wandering it seemed as the train picked its
way through the fields under a sky of blue thin and fine like glass; through a world so quiet
and still that birds and children sang and called as though to reassure themselves that they
were not alone. Nothing of the war in all this. At the stations there were officers eating
"Ztchee" soup and veal and drinking glasses of weak tea, there were endless mountains of hot
meat pies; the ikons in the restaurants looked down with benignancy and indifference upon the
food and the soldiers and beyond the station the light green trees blowing in the little wind;
the choruses of the soldiers came from their trains as though it were the very voice of Spring
itself. It sounded in the distance like--

      Barinisha Barinisha--Pop.
      Barinisha--Pop.
    So--la, la--la ...
      Bar ... inisha la.

The bell rang, officers with meat pies in their hands came running across the platform. We
swung on again through the green golden day.

Andrey Vassilievitch of course chattered to us all. It was his way, and after a very brief
experience of it one trained oneself to regard it as an inevitable background, like the jerking
and smoke of the train, the dust, the shrill Russian voices in the next compartment, the blowing
of paper to and fro in the corridor. I very quickly discovered that he was intensely conscious
of Nikitin, who scarcely throughout the day moved from his upper bunk. Andrey Vassilievitch
handed him his tea, brought his meat pies and sandwiches from the station, and offered him
newspapers. He did not, however, speak to him and I was aware that throughout that long day
he was never once unconscious of him. His chatter, which was always the most irrepressible
thing in the world, had, perhaps, to-day some direction behind it. For the first time in my
long acquaintance with Andrey Vassilievitch he interested me. The little man was distressed
by the heat and dirt; his fingers were always flickering about his clothes. He was intensely
polite to every one, especially to Trenchard, paying him many compliments about England and
the English. The English were the only "sportsmen" in the world. He had been once in London
for a week; it had rained very much, but one afternoon it had been fine, and then what clothes
he had seen! But the City! He had been down into the City and was lost in admiration; he had
also been lost in practical earnest and had appealed to one of the splendid policemen as to
the way to Holborn Viaduct, a name that he was quite unable to pronounce. This incident he
told us several times. Meanwhile ... he hoped he might ask without offence ... what was our
Navy doing? Why weren't our submarines as active as the German submarines? And in France ...
how many soldiers had we now? He did hope that he was not offending.... He spoke rapidly and
indistinctly and much of his conversation Trenchard did not understand; he made some rather
stupid replies and Marie Ivanovna laughed.

She spoke English very well, with an accent that was charming. She had had, she said, an English
nurse, and then an English governess.

Of course they asked me many questions about the future. Would we be close to the Front? How
many versts? Would there be plenty of work, and would we really see things? We wanted to be
useful, no use going if we were not to be useful. How many Sisters were there then already?
Were they "sympathetic"? Was Molozov, the head of the Otriad, an agreeable man? Was he kind,
or would he be angry about simply nothing? Who would bandage and who would feed the villagers
and who would bathe the soldiers? Were the officers of the Ninth Army pleasant to us? Where?
Who? When? The day slipped away, the colours were drawn from the sky, the fields, the hills,
the stars came out in their myriads, thickly clustered in ropes, and lakes and coils of light;
the air was scented with flowers. The second night passed.

The greater part of the next day was spent in H----, a snug town with a little park like a
clean handkerchief, streets with coloured shops, neat and fresh-painted like toys from a toy-shop,
little blue trains, statues of bewigged eighteenth-century kings and dukes, and a restaurant,
painted Watteau-fashion with bright green groves, ladies in hoops and powder, and long-legged
sheep. Here we wandered, five of us. Nikitin told us that he would meet us at the station that
evening. He had his own business in the place. The little town was delivered over to the Russian
army but seemed happy enough in its deliverance. I have never realised in any place more completely
the spirit of bright cheerfulness, and the soldiers who thronged the little streets were as
far from alarm and thunder as the painted sheep in the restaurant. Marie Ivanovna was as excited
as though she had never been in a town before. She bought a number of things in the little
expensive shops--eau-de-Cologne, sweets, an electric lamp, a wrist-watch, and some preserved
fruit. Trenchard made her presents; she thanked him with a gratitude that made him so happy
that he stumbled over his sword more than ever, blushing and pushing his cap back from his
head. There are some who might have laughed at him, carrying her parcels, his face flushed,
his legs knocking against one another, but it was here, at H----, that, for the first time,
I positively began to like him. By the evening when we were assembled in the station again
as I looked at him standing, waiting for directions, smiling, hot, untidy and awkward, I knew
that I liked him very much indeed....

Our new train overflowed: with the greatest difficulty we secured a small wooden compartment
with seats sharp and narrow and a smell of cabbage, bad tobacco, and dirty clothes. The floor
was littered with sunflower seeds and the paper wrappings of cheap sweets. The air came in
hot stale gusts down the corridor, met the yet closer air of our carriage, battled with it
and retired defeated. We flung open the windows and a cloud of dust rose gaily to meet us.
The whole of the Russian army seemed to be surging upon the platform; orderlies were searching
for their masters, officers shouting for their orderlies, soldiers staggering along under bundles
of clothes and rugs and pillows; here a group standing patiently, each man with his blue-painted
kettle and on his face that expression of happy, half-amused, half-inquisitive, wholly amiable
tolerance which reveals the Russian soldier's favourite attitude to the world. Two priests
with wide dirty black hats, long hair, and soiled grey gowns slowly found their way through
the crowd. A bunch of Austrian prisoners in their blue-grey uniform made a strange splash of
colour in a corner of the platform, where, very contentedly, they were drinking their tea;
some one in the invisible distance was playing the balalaïka and every now and then some church
bell in the town rang clearly and sharply above the tumult. The thin films of dust, yellow
in the evening sun, hovered like golden smoke under the station roof. At last with a reluctant
jerk and shiver the train was slowly persuaded to totter into the evening air; the evening
scents were again around us, the balalaïka, now upon the train, hummed behind us, as we pushed
out upon her last night's journey.

The two Sisters had the seats by the windows; Nikitin curled up his great length in another
corner and Andrey Vassilievitch settled himself with much grunting and many exclamations beside
him. I and Trenchard sat stiffly on the other side.

I had, long ago, accustomed myself to sleep in any position on any occasion, however sudden
it might be, and I fancied that I should now, in a moment, be asleep, although I had never,
in my long travelling experience, known greater discomfort. I looked at the dim lamp, at the
square patch beyond the windows, at Nikitin's long body, which seemed nevertheless so perfectly
comfortable, and at Andrey Vassilievitch's short fat one, which was so obviously miserably
uncomfortable; I smelt the cabbage, the dust, the sunflower seeds; first one bone then another
ached, in the centre of my back there was an intolerable irritation; above all, there was in
my brain some strange insistent compulsion, as though some one were forcing me to remember
something that I had forgotten, or as though again some one were fore-warning me of some peril
or complication. I had, very distinctly, that impression, so familiar to all of us, of passing
through some experience already known: I had seen already the dim lamp, the square patch of
evening sky, Nikitin, Andrey Vassilievitch.... I knew that in a moment Trenchard.... He did....
He touched my arm.

"Can you sleep?" he whispered.

"No," I answered.

"It's terribly hot, close--smell.... Are you going to sleep?"

"No," I whispered back again.

"Let us move into the corridor. It will be cooler there."

There seemed to me quite a new sound of determination and resolve in his voice. His nervousness
had left him with the daylight. He led the way out of the carriage, turned down the little
seats in the corridor, provided cigarettes.

"It isn't much better here, but we'll have the window open. It'll get better. This is really
war, isn't it, being so uncomfortable as this? I feel as though things were really beginning."

"Well, we shall be there to-morrow night," I answered him. "I hope you're not going to be disappointed."

"Disappointed in what?" His voice was quite sharp as he spoke to me, "You don't know what I want."

"I suppose you're like the rest of us. You want to see what war really is. You want to do some
good if you can. You want to be seriously occupied in it to prevent your thinking too much
about it. Then, because you're English, you want to see what the Russians are really like.
You're curious and sympathetic, inquisitive and, perhaps, a little sentimental about it....
Am I right?"

"No, not quite--there are other things. I'd like to tell you. Do you mind," he said suddenly
looking up straight into my face with a confiding smile that was especially his own, "if I
talk, if I tell you why I've come? I've no right, I don't know you--but I'm so happy to-night
that I must talk--I'm so happy that I feel as though I shall never get through the night alive."

Of our conversation after this, or rather of his talk, excited, eager, intimate and shy, old
and wise and very, very young, I remember now, I think, every word with especial vividness.
After events were to fix it all in my brain with peculiar accuracy, but his narration had that
night of itself its own individual quality. His was no ordinary personality, or, at any rate,
the especial circumstances of the time drove it into no ordinary shape, and I believe that
never before in all his days had he spoken freely and eagerly to any one. It was simply to-night
his exultation and happiness that impelled him, perhaps also some sense of high adventure that
his romantic character would, most inevitably, extract from our expedition and its purposes.

At any rate, I listened, saying a word now and then, whilst the hour grew dark, lit only by
the stars, then trembled into a pale dawn overladen with grey dense clouds, which again broke,
rolled away, before another shining, glittering morning. I remember that it was broad daylight
when we, at last, left the corridor.

"I'm thirty-three," he said. "I don't feel it, of course; I seem to be now only just beginning
life. I'm a very unpractical person and in that way, perhaps, I'm younger than my age."

I remember that I said something to him about his, most certainly, appearing younger.

"Most certainly I do. I'm just the same as when I went up to Cambridge and I was then as when
I first went to Rugby. Nothing seems to have had any effect upon me--except, perhaps, these
last two days. Do you know Glebeshire?" he asked me abruptly.

I said that I had spent one summer there with a reading party.

