To appreciate this better, we must return to the theme of Horace's personal quality. We have
already seen that in no other poet so fully as in Horace is the reality of personal contact
to be felt. The lyrics, as well as the Epistles and Satires, are almost without exception addressed
to actual persons. So successful is this attempt of the poet to speak from the page that it
needs but the slightest touch of imagination to create the illusion that we ourselves are addressed.
We feel, as if at first hand, all the qualities that went to make up Horace's character,--his
good will, good faith, and good-nature, the depth and constancy of his friendship, his glow
of admiration for the brave deed, the pure heart, and the steadfast purpose, his patient endurance
of ill, his delight in men and things, his affection for what is simple and sincere, his charity
for human weakness, his mildly ironical mood, as of one who is aware that he himself is not
undeserving of the good-humored censure he passes on others, his clear vision of the sources
of happiness, his reposeful acquiescence, and his elusive humor, which never bursts into laughter
and yet is never far away from it. We are taken into his confidence, like old friends. He describes
himself and his ways; he lets us share in his own vision of himself and in his amusement at
the bustling and self-deluded world, and subtly conciliates us by making us feel ourselves
partakers with him in the criticism of life. There is no better example in literature of personal
magnetism.

And he is more than merely personal. He is sincere and unreserved. Were he otherwise, the delight
of intimate acquaintance with him would be impossible. It is the real Horace whom we meet,--not
a person on the literary stage, with buskins, pallium, and mask. Horace holds the mirror up
to himself; rather, not to himself, but to nature in himself. Every side of his personality
appears: the artist, and the man; the formalist, and the skeptic; the spectator, and the critic;
the gentleman in society, and the son of the collector; the landlord of five hearths, and the
poet at court; the stern moralist, and the occasional voluptuary; the vagabond, and the conventionalist.
He is independent and unhampered in his expression. He has no exalted social position to maintain,
and blushes neither for parentage nor companions. His philosophy is not School-made, and the
fear of inconsistency never haunts him. His religion requires no subscription to dogma; he
does not even take the trouble to define it. Politically, his duties have come to be also his
desires. He will accept the favors of the Emperor and his ministers if they do not compromise
his liberty or happiness. If they withdraw their gifts, he knows how to do without them, because
he has already done without them. He conceals nothing, pretends to nothing, makes no excuses,
suffers from no self-consciousness, exercises no reserve. There are few expressions of self
in all literature so spontaneous and so complete. Horace has left us a portrait of his soul
much more perfect than that of his person. It is a truthful portrait, with both shadow and light.

And there is a corollary to Horace's frankness that constitutes another element in the charm
of his personality. His very unreserve is the proof of an open and kindly heart. To call him
a satirist at all is to necessitate his own definition of satire, "smilingly to tell the truth."
At least in his riper work, there is no trace of bitterness. He laughs with some purpose and
to some purpose, but his laughter is not sardonic. Sane judgment and generous experience tell
him that the foibles of mankind are his own as well as theirs, and are not to be changed by
so slight a means as a railing tongue. He reflects that what in himself has produced no very
disastrous results may without great danger be forgiven also in them.

It is this intimate and warming quality in Horace that prompts Hagedorn to call him "my friend,
my teacher, my companion," and to take the poet with him on country walks as if he were a living
person:

  Horaz, mein Freund, mein Lehrer, mein Begleiter,
  Wir gehen aufs Land. Die Tage sind so heiter;

and Nietzsche to compare the atmosphere of the Satires and Epistles to the "geniality of a
warm winter day"; and Wordsworth to be attracted by his appreciation of "the value of companionable
friendship"; and Andrew Lang to address to him the most personal of literary letters; and Austin
Dobson to give his Horatian poems the form of personal address; and countless students and
scholars and men out of school and immersed in the cares of life to carry Horace with them
in leisure hours. Circum praecordia ludit, "he plays about the heartstrings," said Persius,
long before any of these, when the actual Horace was still fresh in the memory of men.

If we were to take detailed account of certain qualities missed in Horace by the modern reader,
we should be even more deeply convinced of his power of personal attraction. He is not a Christian
poet, but a pagan. Faith in immortality and Providence, penitence and penance, and humanitarian
sentiment, are hardly to be found in his pages. He is sometimes too unrestrained in expression.
The unsympathetic or unintelligent critic might charge him with being commonplace.

Yet these defects are more apparent than real, and have never been an obstacle to souls attracted
by Horace. His pages are charged with sympathy for men. His lapses in taste are not numerous,
and are, after all, less offensive than those of European letters today, after the coming of
sin with the law. And he is not commonplace, but universal. His content is familiar matter
of today as well as of his own time. His delightful natural settings are never novel, romantic,
or forced; we have seen them all, in experience or in literature, again and again, and they
make familiar and intimate appeal. Phidyle is neither ancient nor modern, Latin nor Teuton;
she is all of them at once. The exquisite expressions of friendship in the odes to a Virgil,
or a Septimius, are applicable to any age or nationality, or any person. The story of the town
mouse and country mouse is always old and always new, and always true. Mutato nomine de te
may be said of it, and of all Horace's other stories; alter the names, and the story is about
you. Their application and appeal are universal.

"Without sustained inspiration, without profundity of thought, without impassioned song," writes
Duff, "he yet pierces to the universal heart.... His secret lies in sanity rather than impetus.
Kindly and shrewd observer of the manifold activities of life, he draws vignettes therefrom
and passes judgments thereon which awaken undying interest. Non omnis moriar--he remains fresh
because he is human."

Horace's philosophy of life may be imperfect for the militant humanitarian and the Christian,
but, as a matter of fact, it is a complete and perfect thing in itself. Horace does not fret
or fume. He is not morbid or unpleasantly melancholy. It is true that "his tempered and polished
expression of common experience, free from transports and free from despairs, speaks more forcibly
to ripe middle age than to youth," but it is not without its appeal also to youth. Horace sums
up an attitude toward existence which all men, of whatever nation or time, can easily understand,
and which all, at some moment or other, sympathize with. Whether they believe in his philosophy
of life or not, whether they put it into practice or not, it is always and everywhere attractive,--attractive
because founded on clear and sympathetic vision of the joys and sorrows that are the common
lot of men, attractive because of its frankness and manly courage, and, above all, attractive
because of its object. So long as the one great object of human longing is peace of mind and
heart, no philosophy which recognizes it will be without followers. The Christian is naturally
unwilling to adopt the Horatian philosophy as a whole, but with its summum bonum, and with
many of its recommendations, he is in perfect accord. Add Christian faith to it, or add it,
so far as is consonant, to Christian faith, and either is enriched.

We are better able now to appreciate the dynamic power of Horace the person. We may see it
at work in the fostering of friendly affection, in the deepening of love for favorite spots
of earth, in the encouragement of righteous purpose, in the true judging of life's values.

Horace is the poet of friendship. With his address to "Virgil, the half of my soul," his references
to Plotius, Varius, and Virgil as the purest and whitest souls of earth, his affectionate messages
in Epistle and Ode, he sets the heart of the reader aglow with love for his friends. "Nothing,
while in my right mind, would I compare to the delight of a friend!" What numbers of men have
had their hearts stirred to deeper love by the matchless ode to Septimius:

  "Septimius, who with me would brave
    Far Gades, and Cantabrian land
  Untamed by Rome, and Moorish wave
    That whirls the sand;

  "Fair Tibur, town of Argive kings,
    There would I end my days serene,
  At rest from seas and travelings,
    And service seen.

  "Should angry Fate those wishes foil,
    Then let me seek Galesus, sweet
  To skin-clad sheep, and that rich soil,
    The Spartan's seat.

  "Oh, what can match the green recess,
    Whose honey not to Hybla yields,
  Whose olives vie with those that bless
   Venafrum's fields?

  "Long springs, mild winters glad that spot
    By Jove's good grace, and Aulon, dear
  To fruitful Bacchus, envies not
    Falernian cheer.

And what numbers of men have taken to their hearts from the same ode the famous

  Ille terrarum mihi praeter omnes
  Angulus ridet,--

  Yonder little nook of earth
  Beyond all others smiles on me,--

and expressed through its perfect phrase the love they bear their own beloved nook of earth.
"Happy Horace!" writes Sainte-Beuve on the margin of his edition, "what a fortune has been
his! Why, because he once expressed in a few charming verses his fondness for the life of the
country and described his favorite corner of earth, the lines composed for his own pleasure
and for the friend to whom he addressed them have laid hold on the memory of all men and have
become so firmly lodged there that one can conceive no others, and finds only those when he
feels the need of praising his own beloved retreat!"

To speak of sterner virtues, what a source of inspiration to righteousness and constancy men
have found in the apt and undying phrases of Horace! "Cornelius de Witt, when confronting the
murderous mob; Condorcet, perishing in the straw of his filthy cell; Herrick, at his far-away
old British revels; Leo, during his last days at the Vatican, and a thousand others," strengthened
their resolution by repeating Iustum et tenacem:

  "The man of firm and noble soul
    No factious clamors can control
    No threat'ning tyrant's darkling brow
      Can swerve him from his just intent....
    Ay, and the red right arm of Jove,
    Hurtling his lightnings from above,
    With all his terrors then unfurl'd,
      He would unmoved, unawed behold:
    The flames of an expiring world
      Again in crashing chaos roll'd,
    In vast promiscuous ruin hurl'd,
    Must light his glorious funeral pile:
  Still dauntless midst the wreck of earth he'd smile."

Of this passage Stemplinger records thirty-one imitations. How many have had their patriotism
strengthened by Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori, the verse which is aptly found in modern
Rome on the monument to those who fell at Dogali.

The motto of Warren Hastings was Mens aequa in arduis,--An even temper in times of trial. Even
humorous use of these phrases has served a purpose. The French minister, compelled to resign,
no doubt drew substantial consolation from Virtute me involvo, when he turned it to fit his case:

  In the robe of my virtue I wrap me round
    A solace for loss of all I had;
  But ah! I realize I've found
    What it really means to be lightly clad!

But the most pronounced effect of Horace's dynamic power is its inspiration to sane and truthful
living. Life seems a simple thing, yet there are many who miss the paths of happiness and wander
in wretched discontent because they are not bred to distinguish between the false and the real.
We have seen the lesson of Horace: that happiness is not from without, but from within; that
it is not abundance that makes riches, but attitude; that the acceptation of worldly standards
of getting and having means the life of the slave; that the fraction is better increased by
division of the denominator than by multiplying the numerator; that unbought riches are better
possessions than those the world displays as the prizes most worthy of striving for. No poet
is so full of inspiration as Horace for those who have glimpsed these simple and easy yet little
known secrets of living. Men of twenty centuries have been less dependent on the hard-won goods
of this world because of him, and lived fuller and richer lives. Surely, to give our young
people this attractive example of sane solution of the problem of happy living is to leaven
the individual life and the life of the social mass.

IV. CONCLUSION

We have visualized the person of Horace and made his acquaintance. We have seen in his character
and in the character of his times the sources of his greatness as a poet. We have seen in him
the interpreter of his own times and the interpreter of the human heart in all times. We have
traced the course of his influence through the ages as both man and poet. We have seen in him
not only the interpreter of life, but a dynamic power that makes for the love of men, for righteousness,
and for happier living. We have seen in him an example of the word made flesh. "He has forged
a link of union," writes Tyrrell, "between intellects so diverse as those of Dante, Montaigne,
Bossuet, La Fontaine, Voltaire, Hooker, Chesterfield, Gibbon, Wordsworth, Thackeray."

To know Horace is to enter into a great communion of twenty centuries,--the communion of taste,
the communion of charity, the communion of sane and kindly wisdom, the communion of the genuine,
the communion of righteousness, the communion of urbanity and of friendly affection.

NOTES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY

The following groups of references are not meant as annotations in the usual sense. Those to
the text of the poet are for such persons as wish to increase their acquaintance with Horace
by reading at first hand the principal poems which have inspired the essayist's conclusions.
The others are for those who desire to view in detail the working of the Horatian influence.

  HORACE THE PERSON:
    Odes, I. 27; 38; II. 3; 7; III. 8; IV. 11.
    Satires, I. 6; 9; II. 6.
    Epistles, I. 7; 10; 20.
    Suetonius, Life of Horace. (see below.)

  HORACE THE POET:
    Odes, I. 1; 3; 6; 12; 24; 35; II. 7; 16; III. 1; 21; 29; IV. 2; 3; 4.
    Satires, I. 4; 6.
    Epistles, I. 3; 20; II. 2.

  HORACE THE INTERPRETER OF HIS TIMES:
    Landscape;
      Odes, I. 4; 31; II. 3; 6; 14; 15; III. 1; 13; 18; 23.
      Epistles, I. 12; 14.
    Living;
      Odes, I. 1; III. 1; 2; 4; 6; IV. 5; Epode, 2.
      Satires, I. 1; II. 6.
      Epistles, I. 7; 10.
    Religion;
      Odes, I. 4; 10; 21; 30; 31; 34; III. 3; 13; 16; 18; 22; 23; IV.
        5; 6; Epode, 2.
    Popular Wisdom;
      Epistle, I. 1; 4; II. 2.

  HORACE THE PHILOSOPHER OF LIFE:
    The Spectator and Essayist; Satires, I. 4; II. 1.
    The Vanity of Human Wishes;
      Odes, I. 4; 24; 28; II. 13; 14; 16; 18; III. 1; 16; 24; 29; IV. 7.
      Satires, I. 4; 6.
      Epistles, I. 1.
    The Pleasures of this World;
      Odes, I. 9; 11; 24; II. 3; 14; III. 8; 23; 29; IV. 12.
      Epistles, I. 4.
    Life and Morality;
      Odes, I. 5; 18; 19; 27; III. 6; 21; IV. 13.
      Epistles, I. 2; II. 1.
    Life and Purpose;
      Odes, I. 12; II. 2; 15; III. 2; 3; IV. 9; Epode, 2.
      Satires, I. 1.
      Epistles, I. 1.
    The Sources of Happiness;
      Odes, I. 31; II. 2; 16; 18; III. 16; IV. 9.
      Satires, I. 1; 6; II. 6.
      Epistles, I. 1; 2; 6; 10; 11; 12; 14; 16.

  HORACE THE PROPHET:
    Odes, II. 20; III. 1; 4; 30; IV. 2; 3.

  HORACE AND ANCIENT ROME:
    Odes, IV. 3.
    Epistles, I. 20.
    Suetonius, Vita Horati, Life of Horace, Translation, J.C. Rolfe,
        in The Loeb Classical Library, New York, 1914.
    Hertz, Martin, Analecta ad carminum Horatianorum Historiam, i-v.
        Breslau, 1876-82.
    Schanz, Martin, Geschichte der Römischen Litteratur. München, 1911.

  HORACE AND THE MIDDLE AGE:
    Manitius, Maximilian, Analekten zur Geschichte des Horaz im
        Mittelalter, bis 1300. Göttingen, 1893.

  HORACE AND MODERN TIMES:
    In Italy;
      Curcio, Gaetano Gustavo, Q. Orazio Flacco, studiato in Italia dal
        secolo XIII al XVIII. Catania, 1913.
    In France and Germany;
      Imelmann, J., Donec gratus eram tibi, Nachdichtungen und
        Nachklänge aus drei Jahrhunderten. Berlin, 1899.
      Stemplinger, Eduard, Das Fortleben der Horazischen Lyrik seit der
        Renaissance. Leipzig, 1906.
    In Spain;
      Menéndez y Pelayo, D. Marcelino, Horacio en España, 2 vols.
        Madrid, 1885.[2]
    In England;
      Goad, Caroline, Horace in the English Literature of the Eighteenth
        Century. New Haven, 1918.
      Myers, Weldon T., The Relations of Latin and English as Living
        Languages in England during the Age of Milton. Dayton, Virginia,
        1913.
      Nitchie, Elizabeth, "Horace and Thackeray," in The Classical
        Journal, XIII. 393-410 (1918).
      Shorey, Paul, and Laing, Gordon J., Horace: Odes and Epodes
        (Revised Edition). Boston, 1910.
      Thayer, Mary R., The Influence of Horace on the Chief English
        Poets of the Nineteenth Century. New Haven, 1916.

  HORACE THE DYNAMIC:
    Ars Poetica.
    Cowl, R.P., The Theory of Poetry in England; its development in
        doctrines and ideas from the sixteenth century to the nineteenth
        century. London, 1914.
    Dobson, Henry Austin, Collected Poems, Vol. I, 135, 181, 219, 222,
        224, 231, 236, 245, 263; II. 66, 83, 243, etc. London, 1899.
    Gladstone, W.E., The Odes of Horace, English Verse Translation.
        New York, 1901.
    Kipling, Rudyard, et Graves, C.L., Q. Horati Flacci Carminum Liber
        Quintus. New Haven, 1920.[3]
    Lang, Andrew, Letters to Dead Authors. New York, 1893.
    Martin, Sir Theodore, The Odes of Horace; translated into English
          verse. London, 1861.[2]
    Untermeyer, Louis, "--and Other Poets." New York, 1916.
    Whicher, G.M. and G.F., On the Tibur Road, a Freshman's Horace.
          Princeton, 1912.

Besides the works mentioned above, reference should be made to:

  CAMPAUX, A., Des raisons de la popularité d'Horace en France. Paris,
        1895.
  D'ALTON, J.F., Horace and His Age. London, 1917.
  MCCREA, N.G., Horatian Criticism of Life. New York, 1917.
  STEMPLINGER, EDUARD, Horaz im Urteil der Jahrhunderte. Leipzig,
        1921.
  TAYLOR, HENRY OSBORN, The Classical Heritage of the Middle Ages. New
        York, 1903.[2]
  The Century Horace.

and, also, to the two following works, cited and quoted in the text:

