After this Il Moro painted the façade of the house of the Manuelli, which stands on the abutment
of the Ponte Nuovo, and a façade for Torello Saraina, the doctor, who wrote the above-mentioned
book of the Antiquities of Verona. In Friuli, likewise, he painted in fresco the principal
chapel of the Abbey of Rosazzo, for Bishop Giovan Matteo, who held it "in commendam," and,
being a noble and truly religious dignitary, rebuilt it; for it had been allowed to fall completely
into ruin, as such buildings are generally found to be, by those who had held it "in commendam"
before him, attending only to the drawing of the revenues and spending not a farthing in the
service of God and of the Church.

=. Munich: Pinacoteca, 1125)

Bruckmann]

Il Moro afterwards painted many works in oils at Verona and in Venice. On the outer wall (of
a chapel) in S. Maria in Organo he executed in fresco the figures that are still there, with
the exception of the Angel Michael and the Angel Raphael, which are by the hand of Paolo Cavazzuola.
For the same chapel he painted an altar-piece in oils, wherein he made a portrait of Messer
Jacopo Fontani, who gave the commission for the work, in a figure of S. James, in addition
to the Madonna and other very beautiful figures. And in a large semicircle above that altar-piece,
occupying the whole width of the chapel, he painted the Transfiguration of Our Lord, and the
Apostles beneath, which were held to be among the best figures that he ever executed. For the
Chapel of the Bombardieri, in S. Eufemia, he painted an altar-piece with S. Barbara in the
heavens, in the centre, and a S. Anthony below, with his hand on his beard, which is a most
beautiful head, and on the other side a S. Rocco, which is also held to be a very good figure;
whence this work is rightly looked upon as one executed with supreme diligence and unity of
colouring. In a picture on the altar of the Santificazione, in the Madonna della Scala, he
painted a S. Sebastian, in competition with Paolo Cavazzuola, who executed a S. Rocco in another
picture; and he afterwards painted an altar-piece that was taken to Bagolino, a place in the
mountains of Brescia.

Il Moro executed many portraits, and his heads are in truth beautiful to a marvel, and very
good likenesses of those whom they were meant to represent. At Verona he executed a portrait
of Count Francesco Sanbonifazio, who, on account of the length of his body, was called the
Long Count; with that of one of the Franchi, which was an amazing head. He also painted the
portrait of Messer Girolamo Verità, which remained unfinished, because Il Moro was inclined
to be dilatory in his work; and this, still unfinished, is in the possession of the sons of
that good nobleman. Among many other portraits, likewise, he executed one of the Venetian,
Monsignor de' Martini, a knight of Rhodes, and to the same man he sold a head of marvellous
beauty and excellence, which he had painted many years before as the portrait of a Venetian
gentleman, the son of one who was then Captain in Verona. This head, through the avarice of
the Venetian, who never paid him, was left in the hands of Francesco, and he disposed of it
to Monsignor de' Martini, who had the Venetian dress changed into that of a shepherd or herdsman.
It is as rare a portrait as ever issued from the hand of any craftsman, and it is now in the
house of the heirs of the same Monsignor de' Martini, where it is rightly held in vast veneration.
In Venice he painted a portrait of Messer Alessandro Contarini, Procurator of S. Mark and Proveditor
of the forces, and one of Messer Michele San Michele for one of Messer Michele's dearest friends,
who took the portrait to Orvieto; and it is said that he executed another of the same architect,
Messer Michele, which is now in the possession of Messer Paolo Ramusio, the son of Messer Giovan
Battista. He also painted a portrait of Fracastoro, a very famous poet, at the instance of
Monsignor Giberti, by whom it was sent to Giovio, who placed it in his museum.

Il Moro executed many other works, of which there is no need to make mention, although they
are all well worthy of remembrance, because he was as diligent a colourist as any master that
lived in his day, and because he bestowed much time and labour on his work. So great, indeed,
was his diligence, that it brought upon him more blame than praise, as may also be seen at
times to happen to others, for the reason that he accepted any commission and took the earnest-money
from every patron, and trusted to the will of God to finish the work; and if he did this in
his youth, everyone may imagine what he must have done in his last years, when to his natural
slowness there was added that which old age brings in its train. By this method of procedure
he brought upon himself more entanglements and annoyances than he cared for; and Messer Michele
San Michele, therefore, moved by compassion for him, took him into his house in Venice and
treated him like a friend and man of talent.

Finally, having been invited back to Verona by his former patrons, the Counts Giusti, Il Moro
died among them in their beautiful Palace of S. Maria in Stella, and was buried in the church
of that villa, being accompanied to his tomb by all those loving noblemen, and even laid to
rest with extraordinary affection by their own hands; for they loved him as a father, since
they had all been born and brought up while he was living in their house. In his youth Il Moro
was very courageous and agile in body, and handled all kinds of arms with great skill. He was
most faithful to his friends and patrons, and he showed spirit in all his actions. His most
intimate friends were the architect, Messer Michele San Michele, Danese da Carrara, an excellent
sculptor, and the very reverend and most learned Fra Marco de' Medici, who often went after
his studies to sit with him, watching him at work, and discoursing lovingly with him, in order
to refresh his mind when he was weary with labour.

A disciple and son-in-law of Il Moro, who had two daughters, was Battista d' Agnolo, who was
afterwards called Battista del Moro. This master, although he had his hands full for a time
with the complications of the inheritance that Il Moro bequeathed to him, has yet executed
many works which are not otherwise than passing good. In Verona he has painted a S. John the
Baptist in the Church of the Nuns of S. Giuseppe, and in the tramezzo[6] of S. Eufemia, above
the altar of S. Paolo, a scene in fresco showing the latter Saint presenting himself to Ananias
after being converted by Christ; which work, although he executed it when still a lad, is much
extolled. For the noble Counts Canossi he painted two apartments, and in a hall two friezes
with battle-pieces, which are very beautiful and praised by everyone. In Venice he painted
the façade of a house near the Carmine, a work of no great size, but much extolled, in which
he executed a figure of Venice crowned and seated upon a lion, the device of that Republic.
For Camillo Trevisano he painted the façade of his house at Murano, and in company with his
son Marco he decorated the inner court with very beautiful scenes in chiaroscuro. And in competition
with Paolo Veronese he painted a large chamber in the same house, which proved to be so beautiful
that it brought him much honour and profit.

The same master has also executed many works in miniature, of which the most recent is a very
beautiful drawing of S. Eustachio adoring Christ, who has appeared to him between the horns
of a deer, with two dogs near him, which could not be more excellent, and a landscape full
of trees, receding and fading away little by little into the distance, which is an exquisite
thing. This drawing has been very highly praised by the many persons who have seen it, and
particularly by Danese da Carrara, who saw it when he was in Verona, carrying out the work
of the Chapel of the Signori Fregosi, which is one of rare distinction among all the number
that there are in Italy at the present day. Danese, I say, having seen this drawing, was lost
in astonishment at its beauty, and exhorted the above-mentioned Fra Marco de' Medici, his old
and particular friend, not for anything in the world to let it slip through his hands, but
to contrive to place it among the other choice examples of all the arts in his possession.
Whereupon Battista, having heard that Fra Marco desired it, and knowing of his friendship with
his father-in-law, gave it to him, almost forcing him to accept it, in the presence of Danese;
nor was that good Father ungrateful to him for so much courtesy. However, since that same Battista
and his son Marco are alive and still at work, I shall say nothing more of them for the present.

Il Moro had another disciple, called Orlando Fiacco, who has become a good master and a very
able painter of portraits, as may be seen from the many that he has painted, all very beautiful
and most lifelike. He made a portrait of Cardinal Caraffa when he was returning from Germany,
which he took secretly by torch-light while the Cardinal was at supper in the Vescovado of
Verona; and this was such a faithful likeness that it could not have been improved. He also
painted a very lifelike portrait of the Cardinal of Lorraine, when, coming from the Council
of Trent, he passed through Verona on his return to Rome; and likewise portraits of the two
Bishops Lippomani of Verona, Luigi the uncle and Agostino the nephew, which Count Giovan Battista
della Torre now has in a little apartment. Other portraits that he painted were those of Messer
Adamo Fumani, a Canon and a very learned gentleman of Verona, of Messer Vincenzio de' Medici
of Verona, and of his consort, Madonna Isotta, in the guise of S. Helen, and of their grandson,
Messer Niccolò. He has likewise executed portraits of Count Antonio della Torre, of Count Girolamo
Canossi, and his brothers, Count Lodovico and Count Paolo, of Signor Astorre Baglioni, Captain-General
of all the light cavalry of Venice and Governor of Verona, the latter clad in white armour
and most beautiful in aspect, and of his consort, Signora Ginevra Salviati. In like manner,
he has portrayed the eminent architect Palladio and many others; and he still continues at
work, wishing to become in the art of painting as true an Orlando as once was that great Paladin
of France.

In Verona, where an extraordinary degree of attention has been given to design ever since the
death of Fra Giocondo, there have flourished at all times men excellent in painting and architecture,
as will now be seen, in addition to what has been observed hitherto, in the Lives of Francesco
Monsignori, of Domenico Morone and his son Francesco, of Paolo Cavazzuola, of the architect
Falconetto, and, lastly, of the miniaturists Francesco and Girolamo.

Francesco Monsignori, the son of Alberto, was born at Verona in the year 1455; and when he
was well grown he was advised by his father, who had always delighted in painting, although
he had not practised it save for his own pleasure, to give his attention to design. Having,
therefore, gone to Mantua to seek out Mantegna, who was then working in that city, he exerted
himself in such a manner, being fired by the fame of his instructor, that no long time passed
before Francesco II, Marquis of Mantua, who found an extraordinary delight in painting, took
him into his own service; and in the year 1487 he gave him a house for his habitation in Mantua,
and assigned him an honourable provision. For these benefits Francesco was not ungrateful,
for he always served that lord with supreme fidelity and lovingness; whence the Marquis came
to love and favour him more and more every day, insomuch that he could not leave the city without
having Francesco in his train, and was once heard to say that Francesco was as dear to him
as the State itself.

Francesco painted many works for that lord in his Palace of S. Sebastiano at Mantua, and also
in the Castello di Gonzaga and in the beautiful Palace of Marmirolo without the city. In the
latter Francesco had finished painting in the year 1499, after a vast number of other pictures,
some triumphs and many portraits of gentlemen of the Court; and on Christmas Eve, on which
day he had finished those works, the Marquis presented to him an estate of a hundred fields
in the territory of Mantua, at a place called La Marzotta, with a mansion, garden, meadows,
and other things of great beauty and convenience. He was most excellent at taking portraits
from life, and the Marquis caused him to paint many portraits, of himself, of his sons, and
of many other lords of the house of Gonzaga, which were sent to France and Germany as presents
for various Princes. And many of these portraits are still in Mantua, such as those of the
Emperor Frederick Barbarossa; of Doge Barbarigo of Venice; of Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan;
of Massimiliano, also Duke of Milan, who died in France; of the Emperor Maximilian; of Signor
Ercole Gonzaga, who afterwards became a Cardinal; of his brother, Duke Federigo (then a young
man); of Signor Giovan Francesco Gonzaga; of Messer Andrea Mantegna, the painter; and of many
others; of all which Francesco preserved copies drawn on paper in chiaroscuro, which are now
in the possession of his heirs at Mantua.

Above the pulpit of S. Francesco de' Zoccolanti, in the same city, is a picture that he painted
of S. Louis and S. Bernardino holding a large circle that contains the name of Jesus; and in
the refectory of those friars there is a picture on canvas as large as the whole of the head-wall,
of the Saviour in the midst of the twelve Apostles, painted in perspective and all very beautiful,
and executed with many proofs of consideration. Among them is the traitor Judas, with a face
wholly different from those of the others, and in a strange attitude; and the others are all
gazing intently at Jesus, who is speaking to them, being near His Passion. On the right hand
of this work is a S. Francis of the size of life, a very beautiful figure, the countenance
of which is the very presentment of that sanctity which was peculiar to that most saintly man;
and he is presenting to Christ the Marquis Francesco, who is kneeling at his feet, portrayed
from life in a long coat pleated and worked with a curly pattern, according to the fashion
of those times, and embroidered with white crosses, perchance because he may have been at that
time Captain of the Venetians. And in front of the Marquis is a portrait, with the hands clasped,
of his eldest son, who was then a very beautiful boy, and afterwards became Duke Federigo.
On the other side is painted a S. Bernardino, equal in excellence to the figure of S. Francis,
and likewise presenting to Christ the brother of the Marquis, Cardinal Sigismondo Gonzaga,
a very beautiful kneeling figure, robed in the habit of a Cardinal, with the rochet, which
is also a portrait from life; and in front of that Cardinal is a portrait of Signora Leonora,
the daughter of the same Marquis, who was then a girl, and afterwards became Duchess of Urbino.
This whole work is held by the most excellent painters to be a marvellous thing.

=. Berlin: Kaiser Friedrich Museum, 46 c)

Hanfstaengl]

The same master painted a picture of S. Sebastian, which was afterwards placed in the Madonna
delle Grazie, without the city of Mantua; and to this he devoted extraordinary pains, copying
many things in it from the life. It is related that the Marquis, going one day, while Francesco
was executing this picture, to see him at work, as he used often to do, said to him: "Francesco,
you must take some fine figure as your model in painting this Saint." To which Francesco answered:
"I am using as my model a porter with a very handsome figure, whom I bind in a fashion of my
own in order to make the work natural." "But the limbs of this Saint of yours," rejoined the
Marquis, "are not true to life, for they have not the appearance of being strained by force
or by that fear which one would expect in a man bound and shot with arrows; and by your leave
I will undertake to show you what you ought to do in order to make this figure perfect." "Nay,
but I beg you to do it, my lord," said Francesco; and the Marquis added: "When you have your
porter bound here, send for me, and I will show you what you must do." The next day, therefore,
when Francesco had the porter bound in the manner that he wished, he sent a secret summons
to the Marquis, but without knowing what he intended to do. And the Marquis, bursting out of
a neighbouring room in a great fury, with a loaded cross-bow in his hand, rushed towards the
porter, crying out at the top of his voice, "Traitor, prepare to die! At last I have caught
thee as I would have thee," and other suchlike words; which hearing, the wretched porter, thinking
himself as good as dead, struggled in a frenzy of terror with the ropes wherewith he was bound,
and made frantic efforts to break them, thus truly representing one about to be shot with arrows,
and revealing fear in his face and the horror of death in his strained and distorted limbs,
as he sought to escape from his peril. This done, the Marquis said to Francesco, "There he
is in the state that he ought to be: the rest is for you to do"; which the painter having well
considered, made his figure as perfect as could be imagined.

Francesco painted in the Gonzaga Palace, besides many other things, the Election of the first
Lords of Mantua, with the jousts that were held on the Piazza di S. Piero, which is seen there
in perspective. When the Grand Turk sent one of his men with a most beautiful dog, a bow, and
a quiver, as presents for the Marquis, the latter caused the dog, the Turk who had brought
it, and the other things, to be painted in the same Gonzaga Palace; and, this done, wishing
to see whether the painted dog were truly lifelike, he had one of his own dogs, of a breed
very hostile to the Turkish dog, brought to the place where the other one stood on a pedestal
painted in imitation of stone. The living dog, then, arriving there, had no sooner seen the
painted one than, precisely as if it had been a living animal and the very one for whom he
had a mortal hatred, he broke loose from his keeper and rushed at it with such vehemence, in
order to bite it, that he struck his head full against the wall and dashed it all to pieces.

Another story is told by persons who were present at the scene, of a little picture by the
hand of Francesco, little more than two span in height, and belonging to his nephew Benedetto
Baroni, in which is a Madonna painted in oils, from the breast upwards, and almost life-size,
and, lower down, in the corner of the picture, the Child, seen from the shoulders upwards,
with one arm uplifted and in the act of caressing His Mother. It is related, I say, that, when
the Emperor was master of Verona, Don Alfonso of Castille and Alarcon, a very famous Captain,
happened to be in that city on behalf of His Majesty and the Catholic King; and that these
lords, being in the house of the Veronese Count Lodovico da Sesso, said that they had a great
desire to see that picture. Whereupon it was sent for; and one evening they were standing contemplating
it in a good light, and admiring its masterly workmanship, when Signora Caterina, the wife
of the Count, entered into the room where those noblemen were, together with one of her sons,
who had on his wrist one of those green birds--called in Verona "terrazzani,"[7] because they
make their nests on the ground--which learn to perch on the wrist, like hawks. It happened,
then, that, while she stood with the others contemplating the picture, the bird, seeing the
extended arm and wrist of the painted Child, flew to perch upon it; but, not having been able
to find a hold on the surface of the painting, and having therefore fallen to the ground, it
twice returned to settle on the wrist of that painted Child, precisely as if it had been one
of those living children who were always holding it on their wrists. At which those noblemen,
being amazed, offered to pay a great price to Benedetto for the picture, if only he would give
it to them; but it was not possible by any means to wrest it from him. Not long afterwards
the same persons planned to have it stolen from him on the day of the festival of S. Biagio
in S. Nazzaro; but the owner was informed of this, and their design did not succeed.

For S. Paolo, in Verona, Francesco painted a panel-picture in gouache, which is very beautiful,
and another, also most beautiful, for the Chapel of the Bandi in S. Bernardino. In Mantua he
executed for Verona a picture with two most lovely nudes, a Madonna in the sky, with the Child
in her arms, and some Angels, all marvellous figures, which is in the chapel where S. Biagio
is buried, in the Black Friars Church of S. Nazzaro.

Francesco was a man of saintly life, and the enemy of every vice, insomuch that he would never
on any account paint licentious works, although he was very often entreated to do so by the
Marquis; and equal to him in goodness were his brothers, as will be related in the proper place.
Finally, being old, and suffering in the bladder, Francesco, with the leave of the Marquis
and by the advice of the physicians, went with his wife and many servants to the Baths of Caldero,
in the territory of Verona, to take the waters. There, one day, after he had drunk the water,
he allowed himself to be overcome by drowsiness, and slept a little, being indulged in this
by his wife out of compassion; whereupon, a violent fever having come upon him in consequence
of his sleeping, which is a deadly thing for one who has just taken that water, he finished
the course of his life on the second day of July, 1519; which having been reported to the Marquis,
he straightway sent orders by a courier that the body of Francesco should be brought to Mantua.
This was done, although it gave little pleasure to the people of Verona; and he was laid to
rest with great honour in the burial-place of the Compagnia Segreta in S. Francesco at Mantua.
Francesco lived to the age of sixty-four, and the portrait of him which belongs to Messer Fermo
was executed when he was fifty. Many compositions were written in his praise, and he was mourned
by all who knew him as a virtuous and saintly man, which he was. He had for wife Madonna Francesca
Gioacchini of Verona, but he had no children.

The eldest of his three brothers was called Monsignore; and he, being a person of culture and
learning, received offices with good salaries in Mantua from the Marquis, on account of that
nobleman's love of Francesco. He lived to the age of eighty, and left children, who keep the
family of the Monsignori alive in Mantua. Another brother of Francesco had the name of Girolamo
when in the world, and of Fra Cherubino among the Frati Zoccolanti di San Francesco; and he
was a very beautiful calligrapher and illuminator. The third, who was a Friar of S. Dominic
and an Observantine, and was called Fra Girolamo, chose out of humility to become a lay-brother.
He was not only a man of good and holy life, but also a passing good painter, as may be seen
in the Convent of S. Domenico in Mantua, where, besides other works, he executed a most beautiful
Last Supper in the refectory, with a Passion of Christ, which remained unfinished on account
of his death. The same friar painted the beautiful Last Supper that is in the refectory of
the very rich abbey which the Monks of S. Benedict possess in the territory of Mantua. In S.
Domenico he painted the altar of the Rosary; and in the Convent of S. Anastasia, in Verona,
he painted in fresco the Madonna, S. Remigio the Bishop, and S. Anastasia; with a Madonna,
S. Dominic, and S. Thomas Aquinas, all executed with mastery, on a little arch over the second
door of entrance in the second cloister.

Fra Girolamo was a person of great simplicity, wholly indifferent to the things of the world.
He lived in the country, at a farm belonging to his convent, in order to avoid all noise and
disturbance, and the money sent to him in return for his works, which he used for buying colours
and suchlike things, he kept in a box without a cover, hung from the ceiling in the middle
of his chamber, so that all who wished could take some; and in order not to have the trouble
of thinking every day what he was to eat, he used to cook a pot of beans every Monday to last
him the whole week.

When the plague came to Mantua and the sick were abandoned by all, as happens in such cases,
Fra Girolamo, with no other motive but the purest love, would never desert the poor plague-stricken
monks, and even tended them all day long with his own hands. And thus, careless of his life
for the love of God, he became infected with that malady and died at the age of sixty, to the
great grief of all who knew him.

But to return to Francesco Monsignori: he painted a life-size portrait, which I forgot to mention
above, of Count Ercole Giusti of Verona, in a robe of cloth of gold, such as he was wont to
wear; and this is a very beautiful likeness, as may be seen in the house of his son, Count Giusto.

Domenico Morone, who was born at Verona about the year 1430, learned the art of painting from
some masters who were disciples of Stefano, and from works by the same Stefano, by Jacopo Bellini,
by Pisano, and by others, which he saw and copied. Saying nothing of the many pictures that
he executed after the manner of those times, which are now in monasteries and private houses,
I begin by recording that he painted in chiaroscuro, with "terretta verde," the façade of a
house belonging to the city of Verona, on the square called the Piazza de' Signori; and in
this may be seen many ornamental friezes and scenes from ancient history, with a very beautiful
arrangement of figures and costumes of bygone days. But the best work to be seen by the hand
of this master is the Leading of Christ to the Cross, with a multitude of figures and horses,
which is in S. Bernardino, on the wall above the Chapel of the Monte di Pietà, for which Liberale
painted the picture of the Deposition with the weeping Angels. The same Domenico received a
commission to paint the chapel that is next to that one, both within and without, at great
expense and with a lavish use of gold, from the Chevalier, Messer Niccolò de' Medici, who was
considered to be the richest man of his day in Verona, and who spent great sums of money on
other pious works, being a man who was inclined to this by nature. This gentleman, after he
had built many monasteries and churches, and had left scarcely any place in that city where
he had not executed some noble and costly work to the honour of God, chose as his burial-place
the chapel mentioned above, for the ornamentation of which he availed himself of Domenico,
at that time more famous than any other painter in that city, Liberale being in Siena.

Domenico, then, painted in the interior of this chapel the Miracles of S. Anthony of Padua,
to whom it is dedicated, and portrayed the Chevalier in an old man with shaven face and white
hair, without any cap, and wearing a long gown of cloth of gold, such as Chevaliers used to
wear in those times. All this, for a work in fresco, is very well designed and executed. Then,
in certain medallions in the outer vaulting, which is all overlaid with gold, he painted the
four Evangelists; and on the pilasters both within and without he executed figures of Saints,
among which are S. Elizabeth of the Third Order of S. Francis, S. Helen, and S. Catharine,
which are very beautiful figures, and much extolled for the draughtsmanship, colouring, and
grace. This work, then, can bear witness to the talent of Domenico and to the magnificent liberality
of that Chevalier.

Domenico died very old, and was buried in S. Bernardino, wherein are the works by his hand
described above, leaving his son, Francesco Morone, heir to his property and his talents. This
Francesco, who learned the first principles of art from his father, afterwards exerted himself
in such a manner that in a short time he became a much better master than his father had been,
as the works that he executed in emulation of those of his father clearly demonstrate. Below
his father's work on the altar of the Monte, in the aforesaid Church of S. Bernardino, Francesco
painted in oils the folding-doors that enclose the altar-piece of Liberale; on the inner side
of which he depicted in one the Virgin, and in the other S. John the Evangelist, both life-size
figures, with great beauty in the faces, which are weeping, in the draperies, and in every
other part. In the same chapel, at the foot of the face of that wall which serves as head-wall
to the tramezzo,[8] he painted the Miracle that Our Lord performed with the five loaves and
two fishes, which satisfied the multitude; and in this are many beautiful figures and many
portraits from life, but most of all is praise given to a S. John the Evangelist, who is very
slender, and has his back partly turned towards the spectator. He then executed in the same
place, beside the altar-piece, in the vacant spaces on the wall against which it rests, a S.
Louis, Bishop and Friar of S. Francis, and another figure; with some heads in foreshortening
in a sunk medallion on the vaulting. All these works are much extolled by the painters of Verona.
And for the altar of the Cross, on which are so many painted pictures, between that chapel
and the Chapel of the Medici, in the same church, he executed a picture which is in the centre
above all the others, containing Christ on the Cross, the Madonna, and S. John, and very beautiful.
In another picture, which is above that of Caroto, on the left-hand side of the same altar,
he painted Our Lord washing the feet of the Apostles, who are seen in various attitudes; in
which work, so men say, this painter made a portrait of himself in the figure of one who is
serving Christ by bringing water.

For the Chapel of the Emilii, in the Duomo, Francesco executed a S. James and a S. John, one
on either side of Christ, who is bearing His Cross; and the beauty and excellence of these
two figures leave nothing to be desired. The same master executed many works at Lonico, in
an abbey of Monks of Monte Oliveto, whither great multitudes flock together to adore a figure
of the Madonna which performs many miracles in that place. Afterwards, Francesco being very
much the friend, and, as it were, the brother of Girolamo dai Libri, the painter and illuminator,
they undertook to paint in company the organ-doors of S. Maria in Organo, a church of Monks
of Monte Oliveto. In one of these, on the outer side, Francesco painted a S. Benedict clothed
in white, and S. John the Evangelist, and on the inner side the Prophets Daniel and Isaiah,
with two little Angels in the air, and a ground all full of very beautiful landscapes. And
then he executed the great altar-piece of the altar of the Muletta, painting therein a S. Peter
and a S. John, which are little more than one braccio in height, but wrought so well and with
such diligence, that they have the appearance of miniatures. The carvings of this work were
executed by Fra Giovanni da Verona, a master of tarsia and carving.

In the same place, on the wall of the choir, Francesco painted two scenes in fresco--one of
Our Lord riding on an ass into Jerusalem, and the other of His Prayer in the Garden, wherein,
on one side, is the armed multitude coming to take Him, guided by Judas. But more beautiful
than all the rest is the vaulted sacristy, which is all painted by the same master, excepting
only the S. Anthony being scourged by Demons, which is said to be by the hand of his father,
Domenico. In this sacristy, then, besides the Christ and some little Angels that are seen in
foreshortening on the vaulting, he painted in the lunettes, two in each niche, and robed in
their pontifical vestments, the various Popes who have been exalted to the Pontificate from
the Order of S. Benedict. Round the sacristy, below the lunettes of the vaulting, is drawn
a frieze four feet high, and divided into compartments, wherein are painted in the monastic
habit various Emperors, Kings, Dukes, and other Princes, who have abandoned the States and
Principalities that they ruled, and have become monks. In these figures Francesco made portraits
from life of many of the monks who had their habitation or a temporary abode in that monastery,
the while that he was working there; and among them are portraits of many novices and other
monks of every kind, which are heads of great beauty, and executed with much diligence. In
truth, by reason of these ornaments, that was then the most beautiful sacristy that there was
in all Italy, since, in addition to the beauty of the room, which is of considerable size and
well proportioned, and the pictures described above, which are also very beautiful, there is
at the foot of the walls a range of panelled seats adorned with fine perspective-views, so
well executed in tarsia and carving, that there is no work to be seen of those times, and perchance
even of our own, that is much better. For Fra Giovanni da Verona, who executed this work, was
most excellent in that art, as was said in the Life of Raffaello da Urbino, and as is demonstrated
not only by his many other works in houses of his Order, but also by those that are in the
Papal Palace at Rome, in Monte Oliveto di Chiusuri in the territory of Siena, and in other
places. But those of this sacristy are the best of all the works that Fra Giovanni ever executed,
for the reason that it may be said that in them he surpassed himself by as much as he excelled
in the rest every other master. Among other things, Fra Giovanni carved for this place a candelabrum
more than fourteen feet in height to hold the Paschal candle, all made of walnut-wood, and
wrought with such extraordinary patience that I do not believe that there is a better work
of the same kind to be seen.

But to return to Francesco: he painted for the same church the panel-picture which is in the
Chapel of the Counts Giusti, in which he depicted the Madonna, with S. Augustine and S. Martin
in pontifical robes. And in the cloister he executed a Deposition from the Cross, with the
Maries and other Saints, works in fresco which are much extolled in Verona. In the Church of
the Vittoria he painted the Chapel of the Fumanelli, which is below the wall that supports
the choir which was built by the Chevalier Messer Niccolò de' Medici; and a Madonna in fresco
in the cloister. And afterwards he painted a portrait from life of Messer Antonio Fumanelli,
a physician very famous for the works written by him in connection with his profession. He
painted in fresco, also, on a house which is seen on the left hand as one crosses the Ponte
delle Navi on the way to S. Paolo, a Madonna with many Saints, which is held to be a very beautiful
work, both in design and in colouring; and on the house of the Sparvieri, in the Brà, opposite
to the garden of the Friars of S. Fermo, he painted another like it. Francesco painted a number
of other works, of which there is no need to make mention, since the best have been described;
let it suffice to say that he gave grace, unity, and good design to his pictures, with a colouring
as vivid and pleasing as that of any other painter. Francesco lived fifty-five years, and died
on May 16, 1529. He chose to be carried to his tomb in the habit of a Friar of S. Francis,
and he was buried in S. Domenico, beside his father. He was so good a man, so religious, and
so exemplary, that there was never heard to issue from his mouth any word that was otherwise
than seemly.

A disciple of Francesco, and much more able than his master, was the Veronese Paolo Cavazzuola,
who executed many works in Verona; I say in Verona, because it is not known that he ever worked
in any other place. In S. Nazzaro, a seat of Black Friars at Verona, he painted many works
in fresco near those of his master Francesco; but these were all thrown to the ground when
that church was rebuilt by the pious munificence of the reverend Father, Don Mauro Lonichi,
a nobleman of Verona and Abbot of that Monastery. On the old house of the Fumanelli, in the
Via del Paradiso, Paolo painted, likewise in fresco, the Sibyl showing to Augustus Our Lord
in the heavens, in the arms of His Mother; which work is beautiful enough for one of the first
that he executed. On the outer side of the Chapel of the Fontani, in S. Maria in Organo, he
painted, also in fresco, two Angels--namely, S. Michael and S. Raphael. In the street into
which there opens the Chapel of the Angel Raphael, in S. Eufemia, over a window that gives
light to a recess in the staircase of that chapel, he painted the Angel Raphael, and with him
Tobias, whom he guided on his journey; which was a very beautiful little work. And in S. Bernardino,
in a round picture over the door where there is the bell, he painted a S. Bernardino in fresco,
and in another round picture on the same wall, but lower down, and above the entrance to a
confessional, a S. Francis, which is beautiful and well executed, as is also the S. Bernardino.
These are all the works that Paolo is known to have painted in fresco.

As for his works in oils, he painted a picture of S. Rocco for the altar of the Santificazione
in the Church of the Madonna della Scala, in emulation of the S. Sebastian which Il Moro painted
for the other side of the same place; which S. Rocco is a very beautiful figure. But the best
figures that this painter ever executed are in S. Bernardino, where all the large pictures
that are on the altar of the Cross, round the principal altar-piece, are by his hand, excepting
that with the Christ Crucified, the Madonna, and S. John, which is above all the others, and
is by the hand of his master Francesco. Beside it, in the upper part, are two large pictures
by the hand of Paolo, in one of which is Christ being scourged at the Column, and in the other
His Coronation, painted with many figures somewhat more than life-size. In the principal picture,
which is lower down, in the first range, he painted a Deposition from the Cross, with the Madonna,
the Magdalene, S. John, Nicodemus, and Joseph; and he made a portrait of himself, so good that
it has the appearance of life, in one of these figures, a young man with a red beard, who is
near the Tree of the Cross, with a coif on his head, such as it was the custom to wear at that
time. On the right-hand side is a picture by Paolo of Our Lord in the Garden, with the three
Disciples near Him; and on the left-hand side is another of Christ with the Cross on His shoulder,
being led to Mount Calvary. The excellence of these works, which stand out strongly in comparison
with those by the hand of his master that are in the same place, will always give Paolo a place
among the best craftsmen.

On the base he painted some Saints from the breast upwards, which are all portraits from life.
The first figure, wearing the habit of S. Francis, and representing a Beato, is a portrait
of Fra Girolamo Rechalchi, a noble Veronese; the figure beside the first, painted to represent
S. Bonaventura, is the portrait of Fra Bonaventura Rechalchi, brother of the aforesaid Fra
Girolamo; and the head of S. Joseph is the portrait of a steward of the Marchesi Malespini,
who had been charged at that time by the Company of the Cross to see to the execution of this
work. All these heads are very beautiful.

For the same church Paolo painted the altar-piece of the Chapel of S. Francesco, in which work,
the last that he executed, he surpassed himself. There are in it six figures larger than life;
one being S. Elizabeth, of the Third Order of S. Francis, who is a most beautiful figure, with
a smiling air and a gracious countenance, and with her lap full of roses; and she seems to
be rejoicing at the sight of the bread that she, great lady as she was, had been carrying to
the poor, turned by a miracle of God into roses, in token that her humble charity in thus ministering
to the poor with her own hands was acceptable to God. This figure is a portrait of a widowed
lady of the Sacchi family. Among the other figures are S. Bonaventura the Cardinal and S. Louis
the Bishop, both Friars of S. Francis. Near these are S. Louis, King of France, S. Eleazar
in a grey habit, and S. Ivo in the habit of a priest. Then there is the Madonna on a cloud
above them all, with S. Francis and other figures round her; but it is said that these are
not by the hand of Paolo, but by that of a friend who helped him to execute the picture; and
it is evident, indeed, that these figures are not equal in excellence to those beneath. And
in this picture is a portrait from life of Madonna Caterina de' Sacchi, who gave the commission
for the work.

Now Paolo, having set his heart on becoming great and famous, made to this end such immoderate
exertions that he fell ill and died at the early age of thirty-one, at the very moment when
he was beginning to give proofs of what might be expected from him at a riper age. It is certain
that Paolo, if Fortune had not crossed him at the height of his activity, would without a doubt
have attained to the highest, best, and greatest honours that could be desired by a painter.
His loss, therefore, grieved not only his friends, but all men of talent and everyone who knew
him, and all the more because he had been a young man of excellent character, untainted by
a single vice. He was buried in S. Paolo, after making himself immortal by the beautiful works
that he left behind him.

Stefano Veronese, a very rare painter in his day, as has been related, had a brother-german,
called Giovanni Antonio, who, although he learned to paint from that same Stefano, nevertheless
did not become anything more than a mediocre painter, as may be seen from his works, of which
there is no need to make mention. To this Giovanni Antonio was born a son, called Jacopo, who
likewise became a painter of commonplace works; and to Jacopo were born Giovan Maria, called
Falconetto, whose Life we are about to write, and Giovanni Antonio. The latter, devoting himself
to painting, executed many works at Rovereto, a very famous township in the Trentino, and many
pictures at Verona, which are dispersed among the houses of private citizens. He also painted
many works in the valley of the Adige, above Verona, and a panel-picture of S. Nicholas, with
many animals, at Sacco, opposite to Rovereto, with many others; after which he finally died
at Rovereto, where he had gone to live. This master was particularly excellent in making animals
and fruits, of which many very beautiful drawings, executed in miniature, were taken to France
by the Veronese Mondella; and many of them were given by Agnolo, the son of Giovanni Antonio,
to Messer Girolamo Lioni, a Venetian gentleman of noble spirit.

But to come at last to Giovan Maria, the brother of Giovanni Antonio. He learned the rudiments
of painting from his father, whose manner he rendered no little better and grander, although
even he was not a painter of much reputation, as is evident from the Chapels of the Maffei
and of the Emilii in the Duomo of Verona, from the upper part of the cupola of S. Nazzaro,
and from works in other places. This master, recognizing the little value of his work in painting,
and delighting beyond measure in architecture, set himself with great diligence to study and
draw all the antiquities in his native city of Verona. He then resolved to visit Rome, and
to learn architecture from its marvellous remains, which are the true masters; and he made
his way to that city, and stayed there twelve whole years. That time he spent, for the most
part, in examining and drawing all those marvellous antiquities, searching out in every place
all the ground-plans that he could see and all the measurements that he could find. Nor did
he leave anything in Rome, either buildings or their members, such as cornices, capitals, and
columns, of whatsoever Order, that he did not draw with his own hand, with all the measurements;
and he also drew all the sculptures which were discovered in those times, insomuch that when
he returned to his own country, after those twelve years, he was rich in all the treasures
of his art. And, not content with the things in the city of Rome itself, he drew all that was
good and beautiful in the whole of the Roman Campagna, going even as far as the Kingdom of
Naples, the Duchy of Spoleto, and other parts. It is said that Giovan Maria, being poor, and
therefore having little wherewith to live or to maintain himself in Rome, used to spend two
or three days every week in assisting some painter with his work; and with his earnings, since
at that time masters were well paid and living was cheap, he was able to live the other days
of the week, pursuing the studies of architecture. Thus, then, he drew all those antiquities
as if they were complete, reconstructing them in his drawings from the parts and members that
he saw, from which he imagined all the other parts of the buildings in all their perfection
and integrity, and all with such true measurements and proportions, that he could not make
an error in a single detail.

Having returned to Verona, and finding no opportunity of exercising himself in architecture,
since his native city was in the throes of a change of government, Giovan Maria gave his attention
for the time to painting, and executed many works. On the house of the Della Torre family he
painted a large escutcheon crowned by some trophies; and for two German noblemen, counsellors
of the Emperor Maximilian, he executed in fresco some scenes from the Scriptures on a wall
of the little Church of S. Giorgio, and painted there life-size portraits of those two Germans,
one kneeling on one side and one on the other. He executed a number of works at Mantua, for
Signor Luigi Gonzaga; and some others at Osimo, in the March of Ancona. And while the city
of Verona was under the Emperor, he painted the imperial arms on all the public buildings,
and received for this from the Emperor a good salary and a patent of privilege, from which
it may be seen that many favours and exemptions were granted to him, both on account of his
good service in matters of art, and because he was a man of great spirit, brave and formidable
in the use of arms, with which he might likewise be expected to give valiant and faithful service:
and all the more because he drew after him, on account of the great credit that he had with
his neighbours, the whole mass of the people who lived in the Borgo di San Zeno, a very populous
part of the city, in which he had been born and had taken a wife from the family of the Provali.
For these reasons, then, he had all the inhabitants of his district as his following, and was
called throughout the city by no other name but that of the "Red-head of San Zeno."

Now, when the city again changed its government and returned to the rule of its ancient masters
the Venetians, Giovan Maria, being known as one who had served the party of the Emperor, was
forced to seek safety in flight; and he went, therefore, to Trento, where he passed some time
painting certain pictures. Finally, however, when matters had mended, he made his way to Padua,
where he was first received in audience and then much favoured by the very reverend Monsignor
Bembo, who presented him not long afterwards to the illustrious Messer Luigi Cornaro, a Venetian
gentleman of lofty spirit and truly regal mind, as is proved by his many magnificent enterprises.
This gentleman, who, in addition to his other truly noble qualities, delighted in the study
of architecture, the knowledge of which is worthy of no matter how great a Prince, had therefore
read the works of Vitruvius, Leon Batista Alberti, and others who have written on this subject,
and he wished to put what he had learned into practice. And when he saw the designs of Falconetto,
and perceived with what profound knowledge he spoke of these matters, and rendered clear all
the difficulties that can arise through the variety of the Orders of architecture, he conceived
such a love for him that he took him into his own house and kept him there as an honoured guest
for twenty-one years, which was the whole of the rest of Giovan Maria's life.

During this time Falconetto executed many works with the help of the same Messer Luigi. The
latter, desiring to see the antiquities of Rome on the spot, even as he had seen them in the
drawings of Giovan Maria, went to Rome, taking him with him; and there he devoted himself to
examining everything minutely, having him always in his company. After they had returned to
Padua, a beginning was made with building from the design and model of Falconetto that most
beautiful and ornate loggia which is in the house of the Cornari, near the Santo; and the palace
was to be erected next, after the model made by Messer Luigi himself. In this loggia the name
of Giovan Maria is carved on a pilaster.

The same architect built a very large and magnificent Doric portal for the Palace of the Captain
of that place; and this portal is much praised by everyone as a work of great purity. He also
erected two very beautiful gates for the city, one of which, called the Porta di S. Giovanni,
and leading to Vicenza, is very fine, and commodious for the soldiers who guard it; and the
other, which is very well designed, was called the Porta Savonarola. He made, likewise, for
the Friars of S. Dominic, the design and model of the Church of S. Maria delle Grazie, and
laid the foundations; and this work, as may be seen from the model, is so beautiful and well
designed, that one of equal size to rival it has perhaps never been seen up to our own day
in any other place. And by the same master was made the model of a most superb palace for Signor
Girolamo Savorgnano, at his well fortified stronghold of Usopo in Friuli; for which all the
foundations were then laid, and it had begun to rise above the ground, when, by reason of the
death of that nobleman, it was left in that condition without being carried further; but if
this building had been finished, it would have been a marvel.

About the same time Falconetto went to Pola, in Istria, for the sole purpose of seeing and
drawing the theatre, amphitheatre, and arch that are in that most ancient city. He was the
first who made drawings of theatres and amphitheatres and traced their ground-plans, and those
that are to be seen, particularly in the case of Verona, came from him, and were printed at
the instance of others after his designs. Giovan Maria was a man of exalted mind, and, being
one who had never done anything else but draw the great works of antiquity, he desired nothing
save that there should be presented to him opportunities of executing works similar to those
in greatness. He would sometimes make ground-plans and designs for them, with the very same
pains that he would have taken if he had been commissioned to put them into execution at once;
and in this he lost himself so much, so to speak, that he would not deign to make designs for
the private houses of gentlemen, either in the country or in the city, although he was much
besought to do so.

Giovan Maria was in Rome on many occasions besides those described above; whence that journey
was so familiar to him, that when he was young and vigorous he would undertake it on the slightest
opportunity. Persons who are still alive relate that, falling one day into a discussion with
a foreign architect, who happened to be in Verona, about the measurements of I know not what
ancient cornice in Rome, after many words Giovan Maria said, "I will soon make myself certain
in this matter," and then went straight to his house and set out on his way to Rome.

This master made for the Cornaro family two very beautiful designs of tombs, which were to
be erected in S. Salvatore, at Venice--one for the Queen of Cyprus, a lady of that family,
and the other for Cardinal Marco Cornaro, who was the first of that house to be honoured with
that dignity. And in order that these designs might be carried out, a great quantity of marble
was quarried at Carrara and taken to Venice, where the rough blocks still are, in the house
of the same Cornari.

Giovan Maria was the first who brought the true methods of building and of good architecture
to Verona, Venice, and all those parts, where before him there had not been one who knew how
to make even a cornice or a capital, or understood either the measurements or the proportions
of a column or of any Order of architecture, as is evident from the buildings that were erected
before his day. This knowledge was afterwards much increased by Fra Giocondo, who lived about
the same time, and it received its final perfection from Messer Michele San Michele, insomuch
that those parts are therefore under an everlasting obligation to the people of Verona, in
which city were born and lived at one and the same time these three most excellent architects.
To them there then succeeded Sansovino, who, not resting content with architecture, which he
found already grounded and established by the three masters mentioned above, also brought thither
sculpture, to the end that by its means their buildings might have all the adornments that
were proper to them. And for this a debt of gratitude--if one may use such a word--is due to
the ruin of Rome, by reason of which the masters were dispersed over many places and the beauties
of these arts communicated throughout all Europe.

Giovan Maria caused some works in stucco to be carried out in Venice, and taught the method
of executing them. Some declare that when he was a young man he had the vaulting of the Chapel
of the Santo, at Padua, decorated with stucco by Tiziano da Padova and many others, and also
had similar works executed in the house of the Cornari, which are very beautiful. He taught
his work to two of his sons, Ottaviano, who was, like himself, also a painter, and Provolo.
Alessandro, his third son, worked in his youth at making armour, and afterwards adopted the
calling of a soldier; he was three times victor in the lists, and finally, when a captain of
infantry, died fighting valiantly before Turin in Piedmont, having been wounded by a harquebus-ball.

Giovan Maria, on his part, after being crippled by gout, finished the course of his life at
Padua, in the house of the aforesaid Messer Luigi Cornaro, who always loved him like a brother,
or rather, like his own self. And to the end that there might be no separation in death between
the bodies of those whose minds had been united together in the world by friendship and love
of art, Messer Luigi had intended that Giovan Maria should be laid to rest beside himself in
the tomb that was to be erected for his own burial, together with that most humorous poet,
Ruzzante, his very familiar friend, who lived and died in his house; but I do not know whether
this design of the illustrious Cornaro was ever carried into effect. Giovan Maria was a fine
talker, pleasant and agreeable in conversation, and very acute in repartee, insomuch that Cornaro
used to declare that a whole book could have been made with his sayings. And since, although
he was crippled by gout, he lived cheerfully, he preserved his life to the age of seventy-six,
dying in 1534.

He had six daughters, five of whom he gave in marriage himself, and the sixth was married by
her brothers, after his death, to Bartolommeo Ridolfi of Verona, who executed many works in
stucco in company with them, and was a much better master than they were. This may be seen
from his works in many places, and in particular at Verona, in the house of Fiorio della Seta
on the Ponte Nuovo, in which he decorated some apartments in a very beautiful manner. There
are others in the house of the noble Counts Canossi, which are amazing; and such, also, are
those that he executed in the house of the Murati, near S. Nazzaro; and for Signor Giovan Battista
della Torre, for Cosimo Moneta, the Veronese banker, at his beautiful villa, and for many others
in various places, all works of great beauty. Palladio, most excellent of architects, declares
that he knows no person more marvellous in invention or better able to adorn apartments with
beautiful designs in stucco, than this Bartolommeo Ridolfi. Not many years since, Spitech Giordan,
a nobleman of great authority with the King of Poland, took Bartolommeo with him to that King;
and there, enjoying an honourable salary, he has executed, as he still does, many works in
stucco, large portraits, medallions, and many designs for palaces and other buildings, with
the assistance of a son of his own, who is in no way inferior to his father.

The elder Francesco dai Libri of Verona lived some time before Liberale, although it is not
known exactly at what date he was born; and he was called "Dai Libri"[9] because he practised
the art of illuminating books, his life extending from the time when printing had not yet been
invented to the very moment when it was beginning to come into use. Since, therefore, there
came to him from every quarter books to illuminate--a work in which he was most excellent--he
was known by no other surname than that of "Dai Libri"; and he executed great numbers of them,
for the reason that whoever went to the expense of having them written, which was very great,
wished also to have them adorned as much as was possible with illuminations.

This master illuminated many choral books, all beautiful, which are at Verona, in S. Giorgio,
in S. Maria in Organo, and in S. Nazzaro; but the most beautiful is a little book, or rather,
two little pictures that fold together after the manner of a book, on one side of which is
a S. Jerome, a figure executed with much diligence and very minute workmanship, and on the
other a S. John in the Isle of Patmos, depicted in the act of beginning to write his Book of
the Apocalypse. This work, which was bequeathed to Count Agostino Giusti by his father, is
now in S. Leonardo, a convent of Canons Regular, of which Don Timoteo Giusti, the son of that
Count, is a member. Finally, after having executed innumerable works for various noblemen,
Francesco died, content and happy for the reason that, in addition to the serenity of mind
that his goodness brought him, he left behind him a son, called Girolamo, who was so excellent
in art that before his death he saw him already a much greater master than himself.

This Girolamo, then, was born at Verona in the year 1472, and at the age of sixteen he painted
for the Chapel of the Lischi, in S. Maria in Organo, an altar-piece which caused such marvel
to everyone when it was uncovered and set in its place, that the whole city ran to embrace
and congratulate his father Francesco. In this picture is a Deposition from the Cross, with
many figures, and among the many beautiful weeping heads the best of all are a Madonna and
a S. Benedict, which are much commended by all craftsmen; and he also made therein a landscape,
with a part of the city of Verona, drawn passing well from the reality. Then, encouraged by
the praises that he heard given to his work, Girolamo painted the altar of the Madonna in S.
Paolo in a masterly manner, and also the picture of the Madonna with S. Anne, which is placed
between the S. Sebastian of Il Moro and the S. Rocco of Cavazzuola in the Church of the Scala.
For the family of the Zoccoli he painted the great altar-piece of the high-altar in the Church
of the Vittoria, and for the family of the Cipolli the picture of S. Onofrio, which is near
the other, and is held to be both in design and in colouring the best work that he ever executed.

For S. Leonardo nel Monte, also, near Verona, he painted at the commission of the Cartieri
family the altar-piece of the high-altar, which is a large work with many figures, and much
esteemed by everyone, above all for its very beautiful landscape. Now a thing that has happened
very often in our own day has caused this work to be held to be a marvel. There is a tree painted
by Girolamo in the picture, and against it seems to rest the great chair on which the Madonna
is seated. This tree, which has the appearance of a laurel, projects considerably with its
branches over the chair, and between the branches, which are not very thick, may be seen a
sky so clear and beautiful, that the tree seems to be truly a living one, graceful and most
natural. Very often, therefore, birds that have entered the church by various openings have
been seen to fly to this tree in order to perch upon it, and particularly swallows, which had
their nests among the beams of the roof, and likewise their little ones. Many persons well
worthy of credence declare that they have seen this, among them Don Giuseppe Mangiuoli of Verona,
a person of saintly life, who has twice been General of his Order and would not for anything
in the world assert a thing that was not absolutely true, and also Don Girolamo Volpini, likewise
a Veronese, and many others.

In S. Maria in Organo, where was the first work executed by Girolamo, he also painted two Saints
on the outer side of one of the folding doors of the organ--the other being painted by Francesco
Morone, his companion--and on the inner side a Manger. And afterwards he painted the picture
that is opposite to his first work, containing the Nativity of Our Lord, with shepherds, landscapes,
and very beautiful trees; but most lifelike and natural of all are two rabbits, which are executed
with such diligence that each separate hair may actually be seen in them. He painted another
altar-piece for the Chapel of the Buonalivi, with a Madonna seated in the centre, two other
figures, and some Angels below, who are singing. Then, in the ornamental work made by Fra Giovanni
da Verona for the altar of the Sacrament, the same Girolamo painted three little pictures after
the manner of miniatures. In the central picture is a Deposition from the Cross, with two little
Angels, and in those at the sides are painted six Martyrs, kneeling towards the Sacrament,
three in each picture, these being saints whose bodies are deposited in that very altar. The
first three are Cantius, Cantianus, and Cantianilla, who were nephews of the Emperor Diocletian,
and the others are Protus, Chrysogonus, and Anastasius, who suffered martyrdom at Aquæ Gradatæ,
near Aquileia; and all these figures are in miniature, and very beautiful, for Girolamo was
more able in that field of art than any other master of his time in Lombardy and in the State
of Venice.

Girolamo illuminated many books for the Monks of Montescaglioso in the Kingdom of Naples, some
for S. Giustina at Padua, and many others for the Abbey of Praia in the territory of Padua;
and also some at Candiana, a very rich monastery of the Canons Regular of S. Salvatore, to
which place he went in person to work, although he would never go to any other place. While
he was living there, Don Giulio Clovio, who was a friar in that place, learned the first rudiments
of illumination; and he has since become the greatest master of that art that is now alive
in Italy. Girolamo illuminated at Candiana a sheet with a Kyrie, which is an exquisite work,
and for the same monks the first leaf of a psalter for the choir; with many things for S. Maria
in Organo and for the Friars of S. Giorgio, in Verona. He executed, likewise, some other very
beautiful illuminations for the Black Friars of S. Nazzaro at Verona. But that which surpassed
all the other works of this master, which were all divine, was a sheet on which was depicted
in miniature the Earthly Paradise, with Adam and Eve driven forth by the Angel, who is behind
them with a sword in his hand. One would not be able to express how great and how beautiful
is the variety of the trees, fruits, flowers, animals, birds, and all the other things that
are in this amazing work, which was executed at the commission of Don Giorgio Cacciamale of
Bergamo, then Prior of S. Giorgio in Verona, who, in addition to the many other courtesies
that he showed to Girolamo, gave him sixty crowns of gold. This work was afterwards presented
by that Father to a Roman Cardinal, at that time Protector of his Order, who showed it to many
noblemen in Rome, and they all declared it to be the best example of illumination that had
ever been seen up to that day.

Girolamo painted flowers with such diligence, and made them so true, so beautiful, and so natural,
that they appeared to all who beheld them to be real; and he counterfeited little cameos and
other engraved stones and jewels in such a manner, that there was nothing more faithfully imitated
or more diminutive to be seen. Among his little figures there are seen some, as in his imitations
of cameos and other stones, that are no larger than little ants, and yet all the limbs and
all the muscles can be perceived so clearly that one who has not seen them could scarcely believe
it. Girolamo used to say in his old age that he knew more in his art then than he had ever
known, and saw where every stroke ought to go, but that when he came to handle the brushes,
they went the wrong way, because neither his eye nor his hand would serve him any longer. He
died on the 2nd of July in the year 1555, at the age of eighty-three, and was laid to rest
in the burial-place of the Company of S. Biagio in S. Nazzaro.

He was a good and upright man, who never had a quarrel or dispute with anyone, and his life
was very pure. He had, besides other children, a son called Francesco, who learned his art
from him, and executed miracles of illumination when still a mere lad, so that Girolamo declared
that he had not known as much at that age as his son knew. But this young man was led away
from him by a brother of his mother, who, being passing rich, and having no children, took
him with him to Vicenza and placed him in charge of a glass-furnace that he was setting up.
When Francesco had spent his best years in this, his uncle's wife dying, he fell from his high
hopes, and found that he had wasted his time, for the uncle took another wife, and had children
by her, and thus Francesco did not become his uncle's heir, as he had thought to be. Thereupon
he returned to his art after an absence of six years, and, after acquiring some knowledge,
set himself to work. Among other things, he made a large globe, four feet in diameter, hollow
within, and covered on the outer side, which was of wood, with a glue made of bullock's sinews,
which was of a very strong admixture, so that there should be no danger of cracks or other
damage in any part. This sphere, which was to serve as a terrestrial globe, was then carefully
measured and divided under the personal supervision of Fracastoro and Beroldi, both eminent
physicians, cosmographers, and astrologers; and it was to be painted by Francesco for Messer
Andrea Navagiero, a Venetian gentleman, and a most learned poet and orator, who wished to make
a present of it to King Francis of France, to whom he was about to go as Ambassador from his
Republic. But Navagiero had scarcely arrived in France after a hurried journey, when he died,
and this work remained unfinished. A truly rare work it would have been, thus executed by Francesco
with the advice and guidance of two men of such distinction; but it was left unfinished, as
we have said, and, what was worse, in its incomplete condition it received some injury, I know
not what, in the absence of Francesco. However, spoiled as it was, it was bought by Messer
Bartolommeo Lonichi, who has never consented to give it up to anyone, although he has been
much besought and offered vast prices.

Before this, Francesco had made two smaller globes, one of which is in the possession of Mazzanti,
Archpriest of the Duomo of Verona, and the other belonged to Count Raimondo della Torre, and
is now in the hands of his son, Count Giovan Batista, who holds it very dear, because this
one, also, was made with the measurements and personal assistance of Fracastoro, who was a
very familiar friend of Count Raimondo.

Finally, growing weary of the extraordinary labour that miniatures demand, Francesco devoted
himself to painting and to architecture, in which he became very skilful, executing many works
in Venice and in Padua. About that time the Bishop of Tournai, a very rich and noble Fleming,
had come to Italy in order to study letters, to see the country, and to learn our manners and
ways of living. This man, delighting much in architecture, and happening to be in Padua, became
so enamoured of the Italian method of building that he resolved to take the modes of our architecture
with him to his own country; and in order to facilitate this purpose, he drew Francesco, whose
ability he had recognized, into his service with an honourable salary, meaning to take him
to Flanders, where he intended to carry out many magnificent works. But when the time came
to depart, poor Francesco, who had caused designs to be made of all the best and greatest and
most famous buildings in Italy, was overtaken by death, while still young and the object of
the highest expectations, leaving his patron much grieved by his loss.

Francesco left an only brother, in whom, being a priest, the Dai Libri family became extinct,
after producing in succession three men most excellent in their field of art. Nor have any
disciples survived them to keep this art alive, excepting the above-mentioned churchman, Don
Giulio, who, as we have related, learned it from Girolamo when he was working at Candiana,
where the former was a friar; and this Don Giulio has since raised it to a height of excellence
which very few have reached and no one has ever surpassed.

I knew for myself some of the facts about the excellent and noble craftsmen mentioned above,
but I would never have been able to learn the whole of what I have related of them if the great
goodness and diligence of the reverend and most learned Fra Marco de' Medici of Verona, a man
profoundly conversant with all the most noble arts and sciences, and with him Danese Cattaneo
of Carrara, a sculptor of great excellence, both being very much my friends, had not given
me that complete and perfect information which I have just written down, to the best of my
ability, for the convenience and advantage of all who may read these our Lives, in which the
courtesy of many friends, who have taken pains with the investigation of these matters in order
to please me and to benefit the world, has been, as it still is, of great assistance to me.
And let this be the end of the Lives of these craftsmen of Verona, the portraits of each of
whom I have not been able to obtain, because this full notice did not reach my hands until
I found myself almost at the close of my work.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] Canal of the slaughter-houses.

[2] Small canal of the corn-magazines.

[3] Scarpagnino.

[4] See note on page 57, Vol. I.

[5] See note on page 57, Vol. I.

[6] See note on page 57, Vol. I.

[7] From "terra," earth.

[8] See note on page 57, Vol. I.

[9] I.e., "of the books."

FRANCESCO GRANACCI (IL GRANACCIO)

LIFE OF FRANCESCO GRANACCI (IL GRANACCIO)

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

Great, indeed, is the good fortune of those craftsmen who are brought into contact, either
by their birth or by the associations that are formed in childhood, with those men whom Heaven
has chosen out to be distinguished and exalted above all others in our arts, for the reason
that a good and beautiful manner can be acquired with the greatest facility by seeing the methods
and works of men of excellence, not to mention that rivalry and emulation, as we have said
elsewhere, have great power over our minds.

Francesco Granacci, of whom we have already spoken, was one of those who were placed by the
Magnificent Lorenzo de' Medici to learn in his garden; whence it happened that, recognizing,
boy as he was, the great genius of Michelagnolo, and what extraordinary fruits he was likely
to produce when full grown, he could never tear himself away from his side, and even strove
with incredible attention and humility to be always following that great brain, insomuch that
Michelagnolo was constrained to love him more than all his other friends, and to confide so
much in him, that there was no one with whom he was more willing to confer touching his works
or to share all that he knew of art at that time, than with Granacci. Then, after they had
been companions together in the workshop of Domenico Ghirlandajo, it came to pass that Granacci,
because he was held to be the best of Ghirlandajo's young men, the strongest draughtsman, and
the one who had most grace in painting in distemper, assisted David and Benedetto Ghirlandajo,
the brothers of Domenico, to finish the altar-piece of the high-altar in S. Maria Novella,
which had been left unfinished at the death of the same Domenico. By this work Granacci gained
much experience, and afterwards he executed in the same manner as that altar-piece many pictures
that are in the houses of citizens, and others which were sent abroad.

And since he was very gracious, and made himself very useful in certain ceremonies that were
performed in the city during the festivals of the Carnival, he was constantly employed by the
Magnificent Lorenzo de' Medici in many similar works, and in particular for the masquerade
that represented the Triumph of Paulus Emilius, which was held in honour of the victory that
he gained over certain foreign nations. In this masquerade, which was full of most beautiful
inventions, Granacci acquitted himself so well, although he was a mere lad, that he won the
highest praise. And here I will not omit to tell that the same Lorenzo de' Medici, as I have
said in another place, was the first inventor of those masquerades that represent some particular
subject, and are called in Florence "Canti";[10] for it is not known that any were performed
in earlier times.

In like manner Granacci was employed in the sumptuous and magnificent preparations that were
made in the year 1513 for the entry of Pope Leo X, one of the Medici, by Jacopo Nardi, a man
of great learning and most beautiful intellect, who, having been commanded by the Tribunal
of Eight to prepare a splendid masquerade, executed a representation of the Triumph of Camillus.
This masquerade, in so far as it lay in the province of the painter, was so beautifully arranged
and adorned by Granacci that no man could imagine anything better; and the words of the song,
which Jacopo composed, began thus:

  Contempla in quanta gloria sei salita,
    Felice alma Fiorenza,
    Poichè dal Ciel discesa,

with what follows. For the same spectacle Granacci executed a great quantity of theatrical
scenery, as he did both before and afterwards. And while working with Ghirlandajo he painted
standards for ships, and also banners and devices for certain Knights of the Golden Spur, for
their public entry into Florence, all at the expense of the Captains of the Guelph Party, as
was the custom at that time, and as has been done in our own day, not long since.

In like manner he made many beautiful embellishments and decorations of his own invention for
the Potenze[11] and their tournaments. These festivals were of a kind which is peculiar to
the Florentines, and very pleasing, and in them were seen men standing almost upright on horseback,
with very short stirrups, and breaking a lance with the same facility as do the warriors firmly
seated on their saddles; and all this was done for the above-mentioned visit of Leo to Florence.
Granacci also made, besides other things, a most beautiful triumphal arch opposite to the door
of the Badia, covered with scenes in chiaroscuro and very lovely things of fancy. This arch
was much extolled, and particularly for the invention of the architecture, and because he had
made an imitation of that same door of the Badia for the entrance of the Via del Palagio, executed
in perspective with the steps and every other thing, so that the painted and supposititious
door was in no way different from the real and true one. To adorn the same arch he executed
with his own hand some very beautiful figures of clay in relief, and on the summit of the arch
he placed a great inscription with these words: LEONI X PONT. MAX. FIDEI CULTORI.

But to come at length to some works by Granacci that are in existence, let me relate that,
having studied the cartoon of Michelagnolo Buonarroti while the latter was executing it for
the Great Hall of the Palace, he found it so instructive and made such proficience, that, when
Michelagnolo was summoned to Rome by Pope Julius II to the end that he might paint the vaulting
of the Chapel in his Palace, Granacci was one of the first to be sent for by Buonarroti to
help him to paint that work in fresco after the cartoons that he himself had prepared. It is
true that Michelagnolo, being dissatisfied with the manner and method of every one of his assistants,
afterwards found means to make them all return to Florence without dismissing them, by closing
the door on them all and not allowing himself to be seen.

In Florence Granacci painted for Pier Francesco Borgherini a scene in oils on the head-board
of a couch which stood in an apartment wherein Jacopo da Pontormo, Andrea del Sarto, and Francesco
Ubertini had painted many stories from the life of Joseph, in Pier Francesco's house in Borgo
Sant' Apostolo; and in this scene were little figures representing a story of the same Joseph,
executed with extraordinary finish and with great charm and beauty of colouring, and a building
in perspective, wherein he depicted Joseph ministering to Pharaoh, which could not be more
beautiful in any part. For the same man, also, he painted a round picture, likewise in oils,
of the Trinity, or rather, God the Father supporting a Christ Crucified. And in the Church
of S. Piero Maggiore there is a picture of the Assumption by his hand, with many Angels and
a S. Thomas, to whom the Madonna is giving the Girdle. The figure of S. Thomas is very graceful,
turning to one side in a beautiful attitude worthy of the hand of Michelagnolo, and such, also,
is that of Our Lady. The drawing for these two figures by the hand of Granacci is in our book,
together with others likewise by him. On either side of this picture are figures of S. Paul,
S. Laurence, S. James, and S. John, which are all so beautiful that the work is held to be
the best that Francesco ever painted; and in truth this work alone, even if he had never executed
another, would ensure his being considered to be, as indeed he was, an excellent painter.

For the Church of S. Gallo, without the Gate of the same name, and formerly a seat of the Eremite
Friars of S. Augustine, he painted an altar-piece with the Madonna and two children, S. Zanobi,
Bishop of Florence, and S. Francis. This altar-piece, which was in the Chapel of the Girolami,
to which family that S. Zanobi belonged, is now in S. Jacopo tra Fossi at Florence.

Michelagnolo Buonarroti, having a niece who was a nun in S. Apollonia at Florence, had therefore
executed an ornament for the high-altar of that church, and a design for the altar-piece; and
Granacci painted there some scenes in oils with figures large and small, which gave much satisfaction
to the nuns at that time, and also to the other painters. For the same place he painted another
altar-piece, which stood lower down, but this was burned one night, together with some draperies
of great value, through some lights being inadvertently left on the altar; which was certainly
a great loss, seeing that the work was much extolled by craftsmen. And for the Nuns of S. Giorgio
in sulla Costa he executed the altar-piece of their high-altar, painting in it the Madonna,
S. Catharine, S. Giovanni Gualberto, S. Bernardo Uberti the Cardinal, and S. Fedele.

Granacci also executed many pictures, both square and round, which are dispersed among the
houses of gentlemen in the city; and he made many cartoons for glass-windows, which were afterwards
put into execution by the Frati Ingiesuati of Florence. He delighted much in painting on cloth,
either alone or in company with others; wherefore, in addition to the works mentioned above,
he painted many church-banners. And since he practised art more to pass the time than from
necessity, he worked at his ease, always consulting his own convenience, and avoiding discomforts
as much as he was able, more than any other man; and yet, without being covetous of the goods
of others, he always preserved his own. Allowing but few cares to oppress him, he was a merry
fellow, and took his pleasures with a glad heart. He lived sixty-seven years, at the end of
which he finished the course of his life after an ordinary malady, a kind of fever; and he
was buried in the Church of S. Ambrogio at Florence, on the day of S. Andrew the Apostle, in 1544.

FOOTNOTE:

[10] From the "canti," or "songs," that were sung in them.

[11] The "Potenze" were merry companies composed of the men of the various quarters in costume.
Each quarter had its own, representing an Emperor, King, or Prince, and his Court.

BACCIO D' AGNOLO

LIFE OF BACCIO D' AGNOLO

ARCHITECT OF FLORENCE

Great is the pleasure that I take in studying at times the beginnings of our craftsmen, for
one sees some rising from the lowest depth to the greatest height, and especially in architecture,
a science which has not been practised for several years past save by carvers and cunning impostors
who profess to understand perspective without knowing even its terms or its first principles.
The truth, indeed, is that architecture can never be practised to perfection save by those
who have an excellent judgment and a good mastery of design, or have laboured much in painting,
sculpture, or works in wood, for the reason that in it have to be executed with true measurements
the dimensions of their figures, which are columns, cornices, and bases, and all the ornaments,
which are made for the adornment of the figures, and for no other reason. And thus the workers
in wood, by continually handling such things, in course of time become architects; and sculptors
likewise, by having to find positions for their statues and by making ornaments for tombs and
other works in the round, come in time to a knowledge of architecture; and painters, on account
of their perspectives, the variety of their inventions, and the buildings that they draw, are
compelled to take the ground-plans of edifices, seeing that they cannot plant houses or flights
of steps on the planes where their figures stand, without in the first place grasping the order
of the architecture.

Working in his youth excellently well at wood-inlaying, Baccio executed the backs of the stalls
in the choir of S. Maria Novella, in the principal chapel, wherein are most beautiful figures
of S. John the Baptist and S. Laurence. In carving, he executed the ornaments of that same
chapel, those of the high-altar in the Nunziata, the decorations of the organ in S. Maria Novella,
and a vast number of other works, both public and private, in his native city of Florence.
Departing from that city, he went to Rome, where he applied himself with great zeal to the
study of architecture; and on his return he made triumphal arches of wood in various places
for the visit of Pope Leo X. But for all this he never gave up his workshop, where there were
often gathered round him, in addition to many citizens, the best and most eminent masters of
our arts, so that most beautiful conversations and discussions of importance took place there,
particularly in winter. The first of these masters was Raffaello da Urbino, then a young man,
and next came Andrea Sansovino, Filippino, Maiano, Cronaca, Antonio da San Gallo and Giuliano
da San Gallo, Granaccio, and sometimes, but not often, Michelagnolo, with many young Florentines
and strangers.

Having thus given his attention to architecture in so thorough a manner, and having made some
trial of his powers, Baccio began to be held in such credit in Florence, that the most magnificent
buildings that were erected in his time were entrusted to him and were put under his direction.
When Piero Soderini was Gonfalonier, Baccio took part, with Cronaca and others, as has been
related above, in the deliberations that were held with regard to the great Hall of the Palace;
and with his own hand he executed in wood the ornament for the large panel-picture which was
begun by Fra Bartolommeo, after the design by Filippino. In company with the same masters he
made the staircase that leads to that Hall, with a very beautiful ornamentation of stone, and
also the columns of variegated marble and the doors of marble in the hall that is now called
the Sala de' Dugento.

He built a palace for Giovanni Bartolini, which is very ornate within, on the Piazza di S.
Trinità; and he made many designs for the garden of the same man in Gualfonda. And since that
palace was the first edifice that was built with ornaments in the form of square windows with
pediments, and a portal with columns supporting architrave, frieze, and cornice, these things
were much censured by the Florentines with spoken words and sonnets, and festoons of boughs
were hung upon them, as is done in churches for festivals, men saying that the façade was more
like that of a temple than of a palace; so that Baccio was like to go out of his mind. However,
knowing that he had imitated good examples, and that his work was sound, he regained his peace
of mind. It is true that the cornice of the whole palace proved, as has been said in another
place, to be too large; but in every other respect the work has always been much extolled.

For Lanfredino Lanfredini he erected a house on the bank of the Arno, between the Ponte a S.
Trinità and the Ponte alla Carraja; and on the Piazza de' Mozzi he began the house of the Nasi,
which looks out upon the sandy shore of the Arno, but did not finish it. For Taddeo, of the
Taddei family, he built a house that was held to be very beautiful and commodious. For Pier
Francesco Borgherini he made the designs of the house that he built in Borgo S. Apostolo, in
which he caused ornaments for the doors and most beautiful chimney-pieces to be executed at
great expense, and made for the adornment of one chamber, in particular, coffers of walnut-wood
covered with little boys carved with supreme diligence. Such a work it would now be impossible
to execute with such perfection as he gave to it. He also prepared the design for the villa
that Borgherini caused to be built on the hill of Bellosguardo, which was very beautiful and
commodious, and erected at vast expense. For Giovan Maria Benintendi he executed an antechamber,
with an ornamental frame for some scenes painted by excellent masters, which was a rare thing.
The same Baccio made the model of the Church of S. Giuseppe near S. Nofri, and directed the
construction of the door, which was his last work. He also caused to be built of masonry the
campanile of S. Spirito in Florence, which was left unfinished, and is now being completed
by order of Duke Cosimo after the original design of Baccio; and he likewise erected the campanile
of S. Miniato sul Monte, which was battered by the artillery of the camp, but never destroyed,
on which account it gained no less fame for the affront that it offered to the enemy than for
the beauty and excellence with which Baccio had caused it to be built and carried to completion.

Next, having been appointed on account of his abilities, and because he was much beloved by
the citizens, as architect to S. Maria del Fiore, Baccio gave the design for constructing the
gallery that encircles the cupola. This part of the work Filippo Brunelleschi, being overtaken
by death, had not been able to execute; and although he had made designs even for this, they
had been lost or destroyed through the negligence of those in charge of the building. Baccio,
then, having made the design and model for this gallery, carried into execution all the part
that is to be seen facing the Canto de' Bischeri. But Michelagnolo Buonarroti, on his return
from Rome, perceiving that in carrying out this work they were cutting away the toothings that
Filippo Brunelleschi, not without a purpose, had left projecting, made such a clamour that
the work was stopped; saying that it seemed to him that Baccio had made a cage for crickets,
that a pile so vast required something grander and executed with more design, art, and grace
than appeared to him to be displayed by Baccio's design, and that he himself would show how
it should be done. Michelagnolo having therefore made a model, the matter was disputed at great
length before Cardinal Giulio de' Medici by many craftsmen and competent citizens; and in the
end neither the one model nor the other was carried into execution. Baccio's design was censured
in many respects, not that it was not a well-proportioned work of its kind, but because it
was too insignificant in comparison with the size of the structure; and for these reasons that
gallery has never been brought to completion.

Baccio afterwards gave his attention to executing the pavement of S. Maria del Fiore, and to
his other buildings, which were not a few, for he had under his particular charge all the principal
monasteries and convents of Florence, and many houses of citizens, both within and without
the city. Finally, when near the age of eighty-three, but still of good and sound judgment,
he passed to a better life in 1543, leaving three sons, Giuliano, Filippo, and Domenico, who
had him buried in S. Lorenzo.

Of these sons, who all gave their attention after the death of Baccio to the art of carving
and working in wood, Giuliano, who was the second, was the one who applied himself with the
greatest zeal to architecture both during his father's lifetime and afterwards; wherefore,
by favour of Duke Cosimo, he succeeded to his father's place as architect to S. Maria del Fiore,
and continued not only all that Baccio had begun in that temple, but also all the other buildings
that had remained unfinished at his death. At that time Messer Baldassarre Turini da Pescia
was intending to place a panel-picture by the hand of Raffaello da Urbino in the principal
church of Pescia, of which he was Provost, and to erect an ornament of stone, or rather, an
entire chapel, around it, and also a tomb; and Giuliano executed all this after his own designs
and models, and also restored for the same patron his house at Pescia, making in it many beautiful
and useful improvements. For Messer Francesco Campana, formerly First Secretary to Duke Alessandro,
and afterwards to Duke Cosimo de' Medici, the same Giuliano built at Montughi, without Florence,
beside the church, a house which is small but very ornate, and so well situated, that it commands
from its slight elevation a view of the whole city of Florence and the surrounding plain. And
a most beautiful and commodious house was built at Colle, the native place of that same Campana,
from the design of Giuliano, who shortly afterwards began for Messer Ugolino Grifoni, Lord
of Altopascio, a palace at San Miniato al Tedesco, which was a magnificent work.

For Ser Giovanni Conti, one of the secretaries of the Lord Duke Cosimo, he made many useful
and beautiful improvements in his house at Florence; although it is true that in the two ground-floor
windows, supported by knee-shaped brackets, which open out upon the street, Giuliano departed
from his usual method, and so cut them up with projections, little brackets, and off-sets,
that they inclined rather to the German manner than to the true and good manner of ancient
or modern times. Works of architecture, without a doubt, must first be massive, solid, and
simple, and then enriched by grace of design and by variety of subject in the composition,
without, however, disturbing by poverty or by excess of ornamentation the order of the architecture
or the impression produced on a competent judge.

Meanwhile Baccio Bandinelli, having returned from Rome, where he had finished the tombs of
Leo and Clement, persuaded the Lord Duke Cosimo, then a young man, to make at the head of the
Great Hall of the Ducal Palace a façade full of columns and niches, with a range of fine marble
statues; and this façade was to have windows of marble and grey-stone looking out upon the
Piazza. The Duke having resolved to have this done, Bandinelli set his hand to making the design;
but finding that the hall, as has been related in the Life of Cronaca, was out of square, and
having never given attention to architecture, which he considered an art of little value, marvelling
and even laughing at those who gave their attention to it, he was forced, on recognizing the
difficulty of this work, to confer with Giuliano with regard to his model, and to beseech him
that he, as an architect, should direct the work. And so all the stone-cutters and carvers
of S. Maria del Fiore were set to work, and a beginning was made with the structure. Bandinelli
had resolved, with the advice of Giuliano, to let the work remain out of square, following
in part the course of the wall. It came to pass, therefore, that he was forced to make all
the stones irregular in shape, preparing them with great labour by means of the pifferello,
which is the instrument otherwise called the bevel-square; and this made the work so clumsy,
that, as will be related in the Life of Bandinelli, it has been difficult to bring it to such
a form as might be in harmony with the rest. Such a thing would not have happened if Bandinelli
had possessed as much knowledge in architecture as he did in sculpture; not to mention that
the great niches in the side-walls at each end proved to be squat, and that the one in the
centre was not without defect, as will be told in the Life of that same Bandinelli. This work,
after having been pursued for ten years, was abandoned, and so it remained for some time. It
is true that the profiled stones as well as the columns, both of Fossato stone and of marble,
were wrought with the greatest diligence by the stone-cutters and carvers under the care of
Giuliano, and were afterwards so well built in that it would not be possible to find any masonry
better put together, all the stones being accurately measured. In this respect Giuliano may
be celebrated as most excellent; and the work, as will be related in the proper place, was
finished in five months, with an addition, by Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo.

Giuliano, meanwhile, not neglecting his workshop, was giving his attention, together with his
brothers, to the execution of many carvings and works in wood, and also to pressing on the
making of the pavement of S. Maria del Fiore; and since he was superintendent and architect
of that building, he was requested by the same Bandinelli to make designs and models of wood,
after some fantasies of figures and other ornaments of his own, for the high-altar of that
same S. Maria del Fiore, which was to be constructed of marble; which Giuliano did most willingly,
being a good and kindly person and one who delighted in architecture as much as Bandinelli
despised it, and being also won over by the lavish promises of profit and honour that Bandinelli
made him. Setting to work, therefore, on that model, Giuliano made it much after the simple
pattern formerly designed by Brunelleschi, save that he enriched it by doubling both the columns
and the arch above. And when he had brought it to completion, and the model, together with
many designs, had been carried by Bandinelli to Duke Cosimo, his most illustrious Excellency
resolved in his regal mind to execute not only the altar, but also the ornament of marble that
surrounds the choir, following its original octagonal shape, with all those rich adornments
with which it has since been carried out, in keeping with the grandeur and magnificence of
that temple. Giuliano, therefore, with the assistance of Bandinelli, made a beginning with
that choir, without altering anything save the principal entrance, which is opposite to the
above-mentioned altar; for which reason he wished that it should be exactly similar to that
altar, with the same arch and decorations. He also made two other similar arches, which unite
with the entrance and the altar in forming a cross; and these were for two pulpits, which the
old choir also had, serving for music and other ceremonies of the choir and of the altar. In
this choir, around the eight faces, Giuliano made an ornament of the Ionic Order, and placed
at every corner a pilaster bent in the middle, and one on every face; and since each pilaster
so narrowed that the extension-lines of its side-faces met in the centre of the choir, from
inside it looked narrow and bent in, and from outside broad and pointed. This invention was
not much extolled, nor can it be commended as beautiful by any man of judgment; and for a work
of such cost, in a place so celebrated, Bandinelli, if he despised architecture, or had no
knowledge of it, should have availed himself of someone living at that time with the knowledge
and ability to do better. Giuliano deserves to be excused in the matter, because he did all
that he could, which was not a little; but it is very certain that one who has not strong powers
of design and invention in himself, will always be too poor in grace and judgment to bring
to perfection great works of architecture.

Giuliano made for Filippo Strozzi a couch of walnut-wood, which is now at Città di Castello,
in the house of the heirs of Signor Alessandro Vitelli. For an altar-piece which Giorgio Vasari
painted for the high-altar of the Abbey of Camaldoli in the Casentino, he made a very rich
and beautiful frame, after the design of Giorgio; and he carved another ornamental frame for
a large altar-piece that the same Giorgio executed for the Church of S. Agostino in Monte Sansovino.
The same Giuliano made another beautiful frame for another altar-piece by the hand of Vasari,
which is in the Abbey of Classi, a seat of the Monks of Camaldoli, at Ravenna. He also executed
the frames for the pictures by the hand of the same Giorgio of Arezzo that are in the refectory
of the Monks of the Abbey of S. Fiore at Arezzo; and in the Vescovado in the same city, behind
the high-altar, he made a most beautiful choir of walnut-wood, after the design of Giorgio,
which provided for the bringing forward of the altar. And, finally, a short time before his
death, he made the rich and beautiful Ciborium of the most Holy Sacrament for the high-altar
of the Nunziata, with the two Angels of wood, in full-relief, which are on either side of it.
This was the last work that he executed, and he passed to a better life in the year 1555.

Nor was Domenico, the brother of that Giuliano, inferior to him in judgment, seeing that, besides
carving much better in wood, he was also very ingenious in matters of architecture, as may
be seen from the house that was built for Bastiano da Montaguto in the Via de' Servi after
his design, wherein there are also many works in wood by Domenico's own hand. The same master
executed for Agostino del Nero, in the Piazza de' Mozzi, the buildings that form the street-corner
and a very beautiful terrace for that house of the Nasi formerly begun by his father Baccio.
And it is the common belief that, if he had not died so young, he would have surpassed by a
great measure both his father and his brother Giuliano. But before making a beginning, it is
proper for me to discourse briefly on this art of engraving hard stones and gems, which was
lost, together with the other arts of design, after the ruin of Greece and Rome. Of this work,
whether engraved in intaglio or in relief, we have seen examples discovered daily among the
ruins of Rome, such as cameos, cornelians, sardonyxes, and other most excellent intagli; but
for many and many a year the art remained lost, there being no one who gave attention to it,
and even if any work was done, it was not in such a manner as to be worthy to be taken into
account. So far as is known, it is not found that anyone began to do good work or to attain
to excellence until the time of Pope Martin V and Pope Paul II; after which the art continued
to grow little by little down to the time of Lorenzo de' Medici, the Magnificent, who greatly
delighted in the engraved cameos of the ancients. Lorenzo and his son Piero collected a great
quantity of these, particularly chalcedonies, cornelians, and other kinds of the choicest engraved
stones, which contained various fanciful designs; and in consequence of this, wishing to establish
the art in their own city, they summoned thither masters from various countries, who, besides
restoring those stones, brought to them other works which were at that time rare.

By these masters, at the instance of the Magnificent Lorenzo, this art of engraving in intaglio
was taught to a young Florentine called Giovanni delle Corniole,[12] who received that surname
because he engraved them excellently well, of which we have testimony in the great numbers
of them by his hand that are to be seen, both great and small, but particularly in a large
one, which was a very choice intaglio, wherein he made the portrait of Fra Girolamo Savonarola,
who was adored in Florence in his day on account of his preaching. A rival of Giovanni was
Domenico de' Cammei,[13] a Milanese, who, living at the same time as Duke Lodovico, Il Moro,
made a portrait of him in intaglio on a balas-ruby greater than a giulio, which was an exquisite
thing and one of the best works in intaglio that had been seen executed by a modern master.
This art afterwards rose to even greater excellence in the pontificate of Pope Leo X, through
the talents and labours of Pier Maria da Pescia, who was a most faithful imitator of the works
of the ancients; and he had a rival in Michelino, who was no less able than Pier Maria in works
both great and small, and was held to be a graceful master.

These men opened the way in this art, which is so difficult, for engraving in intaglio is truly
working in the dark, since the craftsman can use nothing but impressions of wax, as spectacles,
as it were, wherewith to see from time to time what he is doing. And finally they brought it
to such a condition that Giovanni da Castel Bolognese, Valerio Vicentino, Matteo dal Nassaro,
and others, were able to execute the many beautiful works of which we are about to make mention.

Let me begin, then, by saying that Giovanni Bernardi of Castel Bolognese, who worked in his
youth in the service of Duke Alfonso of Ferrara, made for him, in the three years of honourable
service that he gave him, many little works, of which there is no need to give any description.
Of his larger works the first was an intaglio on a piece of crystal, in which he represented
the whole of the action of Bastia, which was very beautiful; and then he executed the portrait
of that Duke in a steel die for the purpose of making medals, with the Taking of Jesus Christ
by the Multitude on the reverse. Afterwards, urged by Giovio, he went to Rome, and obtained
by favour of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici and Cardinal Giovanni Salviati the privilege of taking
a portrait of Clement VII, from which he made a die for medals, which was very beautiful, with
Joseph revealing himself to his brethren on the reverse; and for this he was rewarded by His
Holiness with the gift of a Mazza, an office which he afterwards sold in the time of Paul III,
receiving two hundred crowns for it. For the same Clement he executed figures of the four Evangelists
on four round crystals, which were much extolled, and gained for him the favour and friendship
of many prelates, and in particular the good-will of Salviati and of the above-mentioned Cardinal
Ippolito de' Medici, that sole refuge for men of talent, whose portrait he made on steel medals,
besides executing for him on crystal the Presentation of the Daughter of Darius to Alexander
the Great.

After this, when Charles V went to Bologna to be crowned, Giovanni made a portrait of him in
steel, from which he struck a medal of gold. This he carried straightway to the Emperor, who
gave him a hundred pistoles of gold, and sent to inquire whether he would go with him to Spain;
but Giovanni refused, saying that he could not leave the service of Clement and of Cardinal
Ippolito, for whom he had begun some work that was still unfinished.

Having returned to Rome, Giovanni executed for the same Cardinal de' Medici a Rape of the Sabines,
which was very beautiful. And the Cardinal, knowing himself to be much indebted to him for
all these things, rewarded him with a vast number of gifts and courtesies; but the greatest
of all was this, that the Cardinal, when departing for France in the midst of a company of
many lords and gentlemen, turned to Giovanni, who was there among the rest, and, taking from
his own neck a little chain to which was attached a cameo worth more than six hundred crowns,
he gave it to him, telling him that he should keep it until his return, and intending to bestow
upon him afterwards such a recompense as he knew to be due to the talent of Giovanni.

On the death of the Cardinal, that cameo fell into the hands of Cardinal Farnese, for whom
Giovanni afterwards executed many works in crystal, and in particular a Christ Crucified for
a Cross, with a God the Father above, Our Lady and S. John at the sides, and the Magdalene
at the foot; and in a triangle at the base of the Cross he made three scenes of the Passion
of Christ, one in each angle. For two candelabra of silver he engraved six round crystals.
In the first is the Centurion praying Christ that He should heal his son, in the second the
Pool of Bethesda, in the third the Transfiguration on Mount Tabor, in the fourth the Miracle
of the five loaves and two fishes, in the fifth the scene of Christ driving the traders from
the Temple, and in the last the Raising of Lazarus; and all were exquisite. The same Cardinal
Farnese afterwards desired to have a very rich casket made of silver, and had the work executed
by Manno, a Florentine goldsmith, of whom there will be an account in another place; but he
entrusted all the compartments of crystal to Giovanni, who made them all full of scenes, with
marble in half-relief; and he made figures of silver and ornaments in the round, and all with
such diligence, that no other work of that kind was ever carried to such perfection. On the
body of this casket are the following scenes, engraved in ovals with marvellous art by the
hand of Giovanni: The Chase of Meleager after the Calydonian Boar, the Followers of Bacchus,
a naval battle, Hercules in combat with the Amazons, and other most beautiful fantasies of
the Cardinal, who caused finished designs of them to be executed by Perino del Vaga and other
masters. Giovanni then executed on a crystal the triumph of the taking of Goletta, and the
War of Tunis on another. For the same Cardinal he engraved, likewise on crystal, the Birth
of Christ and the scenes when He prays in the Garden; when He is taken by the Jews; when He
is led before Annas, Herod, and Pilate; when He is scourged and then crowned with thorns; when
He carries the Cross; when He is nailed upon it and raised on high; and, finally, His divine
and glorious Resurrection. All these works were not only very beautiful, but also executed
with such rapidity, that every man was struck with astonishment.

Michelagnolo had made for the above-mentioned Cardinal de' Medici a drawing, which I forgot
to mention before, of a Tityus whose heart was being devoured by a vulture; and Giovanni engraved
this beautifully on crystal. And he did the same with another drawing by Buonarroti, in which
Phaethon, not being able to manage the chariot of the Sun, has fallen into the Po, and his
weeping sisters are transformed into trees.

Giovanni executed a portrait of Madama Margherita of Austria, daughter of the Emperor Charles
V, who had been the wife of Duke Alessandro de' Medici, and was then the consort of Duke Ottavio
Farnese; and this he did in competition with Valerio Vicentino. For these works executed for
Cardinal Farnese, he received from that lord a reward in the form of the office of Giannizzero,
from which he drew a good sum of money; and, in addition, he was so beloved by that Cardinal
that he obtained a great number of other favours from him, nor did the Cardinal ever pass through
Faenza, where Giovanni had built a most commodious house, without going to take up his quarters
with him. Having thus settled at Faenza, in order to rest after a life of much labour in the
world, Giovanni remained there ever afterwards; and his first wife, by whom he had not had
children, being dead, he took a second. By her he had two sons and a daughter; and with them
he lived in contentment, being well provided with landed property and other revenues, which
yielded him more than four hundred crowns, until he came to the age of sixty, when he rendered
up his soul to God on the day of Pentecost, in the year 1555.

Matteo dal Nassaro, who was born in Verona, and was the son of Jacopo dal Nassaro, a shoemaker,
gave much attention in his early childhood not only to design, but also to music, in which
he became excellent, having had as his masters in that study Marco Carrà and Il Tromboncino,
both Veronese, who were then in the service of the Marquis of Mantua. In matters of intaglio
he was much assisted by two Veronese of honourable family, with whom he was continually associated.
One of these was Niccolò Avanzi, who, working privately in Rome, executed cameos, cornelians,
and other stones, which were taken to various Princes; and there are persons who remember to
have seen a lapis-lazuli by his hand, three fingers in breadth, containing the Nativity of
Christ, with many figures, which was sold as a choice work to the Duchess of Urbino. The other
was Galeazzo Mondella, who, besides engraving gems, drew very beautifully.

After Matteo had learned from these two masters all that they knew, it chanced that there fell
into his hands a beautiful piece of green jasper, marked with red spots, as the good pieces
are; and he engraved in it a Deposition from the Cross with such diligence, that he made the
wounds come in those parts of the jasper that were spotted with the colour of blood, which
caused that work to be a very rare one, and brought him much commendation. That jasper was
sold by Matteo to the Marchioness Isabella d'Este.

He then went to France, taking with him many works by his own hand which might serve to introduce
him to the Court of King Francis I; and when he had been presented to that Sovereign, who always
held in estimation every manner of man of talent, the King, after taking many of the stones
engraved by him, received him into his service and ordained him a good salary; and he held
Matteo dear no less because he was an excellent musician and could play very well upon the
lute, than for his profession of engraving stones. Of a truth, there is nothing that does more
to kindle men's minds with love for the arts than to see them appreciated and rewarded by Princes
and noblemen, as has always been done in the past, and is done more than ever at the present
day, by the illustrious House of Medici, and as was also done by that truly magnanimous Sovereign,
King Francis.

Matteo, thus employed in the service of that King, executed many rare works, not only for His
Majesty, but also for almost all the most noble lords and barons of the Court, of whom there
was scarcely one who did not have some work by his hand, since it was much the custom at that
time to wear cameos and other suchlike gems on the neck and in the cap. For the King he made
an altar-piece for the altar of the chapel which His Majesty always took with him on his journeys;
and this was full of figures of gold, partly in the round and partly in half-relief, with many
engraved gems distributed over the limbs of those figures. He also engraved many pieces of
crystal in intaglio, impressions of which in sulphur and gesso are to be seen in many places,
and particularly in Verona, where there are marvellous representations of all the planets,
and a Venus with a Cupid that has the back turned, which could not be more beautiful. In a
very fine chalcedony, found in a river, Matteo engraved divinely well the head of a Deianira
almost in full-relief, wearing the lion's skin, the surface being tawny in colour; and he turned
to such good advantage a vein of red that was in that stone, representing with it the inner
side of the lion's skin at its junction with the head, that the skin had the appearance of
one newly flayed. Another spot of colour he used for the hair, and the white for the face and
breast, and all with admirable mastery. This head came into the possession of King Francis,
together with the other things; and there is an impression of it at the present day in Verona,
which belongs to the goldsmith Zoppo, who was Matteo's disciple.

Matteo was a man of great spirit and generosity, insomuch that he would rather have given his
works away than sold them for a paltry price. Wherefore when a baron, for whom he had made
a cameo of some value, wished to pay him a wretched sum for it, Matteo besought him straitly
that he should accept it as a present. To this the other would not consent, and yet wished
to have it for the same miserable price; whereupon Matteo, flying into a rage, crushed it to
powder with a hammer in his presence. For the same King Matteo executed many cartoons for tapestries,
and with these, to please His Majesty, he was obliged to go to Flanders, and to stay there
until they had been woven in silk and gold; which being finished and taken to France, they
were held to be very beautiful. Finally, Matteo returned to his own country, as almost all
men do, taking with him many rare things from those foreign parts, and in particular some landscapes
on canvas painted in Flanders in oils and in gouache, and executed by very able hands, which
are still preserved and treasured in Verona, in memory of him, by Signor Luigi and Signor Girolamo
Stoppi. Having returned to Verona, Matteo took up his abode in a cave hollowed out under a
rocky cliff, above which is the garden of the Frati Ingiesuati--a place which, besides being
very warm in winter and very cool in summer, commands a most beautiful view. But he was not
able to enjoy that habitation, thus contrived after his own fancy, as long as he would have
liked, for King Francis, as soon as he had been released from his captivity, sent a special
messenger to recall Matteo to France, and to pay him his salary even for all the time that
he had been in Verona; and when he had arrived there, the King made him master of dies for
the Mint. Taking a wife in France, therefore, Matteo settled down to live in those parts, since
such was the pleasure of the King his master. By that wife he had some children, but all so
unlike himself that he had little satisfaction from them.

Matteo was so gentle and courteous, that he welcomed with extraordinary warmth anyone who arrived
in France, not only from his own city of Verona, but from every part of Lombardy. His dearest
friend in those regions was Paolo Emilio of Verona, who wrote the history of France in the
Latin tongue. Matteo taught many disciples, among them a fellow-Veronese, the brother of Domenico
Brusciasorzi, two of his nephews, who went to Flanders, and many other Italians and Frenchmen,
of whom there is no need to make mention. And finally he died, not long after the death of
King Francis of France.

But to come at length to the marvellous art of Valerio Vicentino, of whom we have now to speak:
this master executed so many works, both great and small, either in intaglio or in relief,
and all with such a finish and such facility, that it is a thing incredible. If Nature had
made Valerio a good master of design, even as she made him most excellent in engraving, in
which he executed his works with extraordinary patience, diligence, and rapidity, he would
not merely have equalled the ancients, as he did, but would have surpassed them by a great
measure; and even so he had such judgment, that he always availed himself in his works of the
designs of others or of the intagli of the ancients.

Valerio fashioned for Pope Clement VII a casket entirely of crystal, wrought with admirable
mastery, for which he received two thousand crowns of gold from that Pontiff in return for
his labour. In those crystals Valerio engraved the whole Passion of Jesus Christ, after the
designs of others; and that casket was afterwards presented by Pope Clement to King Francis
at Nice, at the time when his niece went to be married to the Duke of Orleans, who afterwards
became King Henry. For the same Pope Valerio made some most beautiful paxes, and a divine cross
of crystal, and likewise dies for striking medals, containing the portrait of Pope Clement,
with very beautiful reverses; and through him that art produced in his day many masters, both
from Milan and from other parts, who had grown to such a number before the sack of Rome, that
it was a marvel. He made the medals of the twelve Emperors, with their reverses, copying the
most beautiful antiques, with a great number of Greek medals; and he engraved so many other
works in crystal, that the shops of the goldsmiths, or rather, the whole world, may be seen
to be full of impressions taken in gesso, sulphur, or other compositions, from the intagli
in which he made scenes, figures, or heads. He had, indeed, a skill of hand so extraordinary,
that there was never anyone in his profession who executed more works than Valerio.

He also fashioned many vases of crystal for Pope Clement, who presented some to various Princes,
and others were placed in the Church of S. Lorenzo at Florence, together with many vases that
were formerly in the Palace of the Medici and had belonged to the elder Lorenzo, the Magnificent,
and to other members of that most illustrious family, that they might serve to contain the
relics of many Saints, which that Pontiff presented to that church in memory of himself. It
would not be possible to find anything more varied than the curves of those vases, some of
which are of sardonyx, agate, amethyst, and lapis-lazuli, and some of plasma, heliotrope, jasper,
crystal, and cornelian, so that in point of value or beauty nothing more could be desired.
For Pope Paul III he made a cross and two candelabra, likewise of crystal, engraved with scenes
of the Passion of Jesus Christ in various compartments; with a vast number of stones, both
great and small, of which it would take too long to make mention. And in the collection of
Cardinal Farnese may be seen many things by the hand of Valerio, who left no fewer finished
works than did the above-named Giovanni. At the age of seventy-eight he performed miracles,
so sure were his eye and hand; and he taught his art to a daughter of his own, who works very
well. He so delighted to lay his hands on antiquities in marble, impressions in gesso of works
both ancient and modern, and drawings and pictures by rare masters, that he shrank from no
expense; wherefore his house at Vicenza is adorned by such an abundance of various things,
that it is a marvel. It is clearly evident that when a man bears love to art, it never leaves
him until he is in the grave; whence he gains praise and his reward during his lifetime, and
makes himself immortal after death. Valerio was well remunerated for his labours, and received
offices and many benefits from those Princes whom he served; and thus those who survived him
are able, thanks to him, to maintain an honourable state. And in the year 1546, when, by reason
of the infirmities that old age brings in its train, he could no longer attend to his art,
or even live, he rendered up his soul to God.

At Parma, in times past, lived Marmita, who gave his attention for a period to painting, and
then turned to intaglio, in which he imitated the ancients very closely. Many most beautiful
works by his hand are to be seen, and he taught the art to a son of his own, called Lodovico,
who lived for a long time in Rome with Cardinal Giovanni de' Salviati. Lodovico executed for
that Cardinal four ovals of crystal engraved with figures of great excellence, which were placed
on a very beautiful casket of silver that was afterwards presented to the most illustrious
Signora Leonora of Toledo, Duchess of Florence. He made, among many other works, a cameo with
a most beautiful head of Socrates, and he was a great master at counterfeiting ancient medals,
from which he gained extraordinary advantage.

There followed, in Florence, Domenico di Polo, a Florentine and an excellent master of intaglio,
who was the disciple of Giovanni delle Corniole, of whom we have spoken. In our own day this
Domenico executed a divine portrait of Duke Alessandro de' Medici, from which he made dies
in steel and most beautiful medals, with a reverse containing a Florence. He also made a portrait
of Duke Cosimo in the first year after his election to the government of Florence, with the
sign of Capricorn on the reverse; and many other little works in intaglio, of which there is
no need to make record. He died at the age of sixty-five.

Domenico, Valerio, Marmita, and Giovanni da Castel Bolognese being dead, there remained many
who have surpassed them by a great measure; one in Venice, for example, being Luigi Anichini
of Ferrara, who, with the delicacy of his engraving and the sharpness of his finish, has produced
works that are marvellous. But far beyond all others in grace, excellence, perfection, and
versatility, has soared Alessandro Cesati, surnamed Il Greco, who has executed cameos in relief
and gems in intaglio in so beautiful a manner, as well as dies of steel in incavo, and has
used the burin with such supreme diligence and with such mastery over the most delicate refinements
of his art, that nothing better could be imagined. Whoever wishes to be amazed by his miraculous
powers, should study a medal that he made for Pope Paul III, with his portrait on one side,
which has all the appearance of life, and on the reverse Alexander the Great, who has thrown
himself at the feet of the High-Priest of Jerusalem, and is doing him homage--figures which
are so marvellous that it would not be possible to do anything better. And Michelagnolo Buonarroti
himself, looking at them in the presence of Giorgio Vasari, said that the hour of death had
come upon the art, for nothing better could ever be seen. This Alessandro made the medal of
Pope Julius III for the holy year of 1550, with a reverse showing the prisoners that were released
in the days of the ancients at times of jubilee, which was a rare and truly beautiful medal;
with many other dies and portraits for the Mint of Rome, which he kept busily employed for
many years. He executed portraits of Pier Luigi Farnese, Duke of Castro, and his son, Duke
Ottavio; and he made a portrait of Cardinal Farnese in a medal, a very choice work, the head
being of gold and the ground of silver. The same master engraved for Cardinal Farnese in intaglio,
on a cornelian larger than a giulio, a head of King Henry of France, which has been considered
in point of design, grace, excellence, and perfection of finish, one of the best modern intagli
that have ever been seen. There may also be seen many other stones engraved by his hand, in
the form of cameos; truly perfect is a nude woman wrought with great art, and another in which
is a lion, and likewise one of a boy, with many small ones, of which there is no need to speak;
but that which surpassed all the others was the head of the Athenian Phocion, which is marvellous,
and the most beautiful cameo that is to be seen.

A master who gives his attention to cameos at the present day is Giovanni Antonio de' Rossi,
an excellent craftsman of Milan, who, in addition to the various beautiful works that he has
engraved in relief and in intaglio, has executed for the most illustrious Duke Cosimo de' Medici
a very large cameo, one-third of a braccio in height and the same in width, in which he has
cut two figures from the waist upwards--namely, His Excellency and the most illustrious Duchess
Leonora, his consort, who are both holding with their hands a medallion containing a Florence,
and beside them are portraits from life of the Prince Don Francesco, Don Giovanni the Cardinal,
Don Garzia, Don Ernando, and Don Pietro, together with Donna Isabella and Donna Lucrezia, all
their children. It would not be possible to find a more amazing or a larger work in cameo than
this; and since it surpasses all the other cameos and smaller works that he has made, I shall
make no further mention of them, for they are all to be seen.

Cosimo da Trezzo, also, has executed many works worthy of praise in this profession, and has
won much favour on account of his rare gifts from Philip, the great Catholic King of Spain,
who retains him about his person, honouring and rewarding him in return for his ability in
his vocation of engraving in intaglio and in relief. He has no equal in making portraits from
life; and in other kinds of work, as well as in that, his talent is extraordinary.

Of the Milanese Filippo Negrolo, who worked at chasing arms of iron with foliage and figures,
I shall say nothing, since copper-engravings of his works, which have given him very great
fame, may be seen about. By Gasparo and Girolamo Misuroni, engravers of Milan, have been seen
most beautiful vases and tazze of crystal. For Duke Cosimo, in particular, they have executed
two that are marvellous; besides which, they have made out of a piece of heliotrope a vase
extraordinary in size and admirable for its engraving, and also a large vase of lapis-lazuli,
which deserves infinite praise. Jacopo da Trezzo practises the same profession in Milan; and
these men, in truth, have brought great beauty and facility to this art. Many masters could
I mention who, in executing in incavo heads and reverses for medals, have equalled and even
surpassed the ancients; as, for example, Benvenuto Cellini, who, during the time when he exercised
the goldsmith's art in Rome under Pope Clement, made two medals with a head of Pope Clement
that is a living likeness, and on the reverse of one a figure of Peace that has bound Fury
and is burning her arms, and on the other Moses striking the rock and causing water to flow
to quench the thirst of his people: beyond which it is not possible to go in that art. And
the same might be said of the coins and medals that Benvenuto afterwards made for Duke Alessandro
in Florence.

Of the Chevalier, Leone Aretino, who has done equally well in the same art, and of the works
that he has made and still continues to make, there will be an account in another place.

The Roman Pietro Paolo Galeotto, also, has executed for Duke Cosimo, as he still does, medals
with portraits of that lord, dies for coins, and works in tarsia, imitating the methods of
Maestro Salvestro, a most excellent master, who produced marvellous works in that profession
at Rome.

Pastorino da Siena, likewise, has executed so many heads from life, that he may be said to
have made portraits of every kind of person in the whole world, great nobles, followers of
the arts, and many people of low degree. He discovered a kind of hard stucco for making portraits,
wherewith he gave them the colouring of nature, with the tints of the beard, hair, and flesh,
so that they had the appearance of life itself; but he deserves much more praise for his work
in steel, in which he has made excellent dies for medals.

It would take too long if I were to speak of all those who execute portrait-medals of wax,
seeing that every goldsmith at the present day makes them, and a number of gentlemen have given
their attention to this, and still do so; such as Giovan Battista Sozzini at Siena, Rosso de'
Giugni at Florence, and very many others, of whom I shall not now say more. And, to bring this
account to conclusion, I return to the steel-engravers, of whom one is Girolamo Fagiuoli of
Bologna, a master of chasing and of copper-engraving, and another, at Florence, is Domenico
Poggini, who has made, as he still does, dies for the Mint, with medals of Duke Cosimo, and
who also executes statues of marble, imitating, in so far as he is able, the rarest and most
excellent masters who have ever produced choice works in these professions.

FOOTNOTE:

[12] Giovanni of the Cornelians.

[13] Domenico of the Cameos.

MARC' ANTONIO BOLOGNESE AND OTHER ENGRAVERS OF PRINTS

LIVES OF MARC' ANTONIO BOLOGNESE AND OF OTHER ENGRAVERS OF PRINTS

Seeing that in the Treatise on the Technique of Painting there was little said of copper-plate
engraving, since it was enough at that time to describe the method of engraving silver with
the burin, which is a square tool of iron, cut on the slant, with a sharp point, I shall use
the occasion of this Life to say as much on that subject as I may consider to be sufficient.
The beginning of print-engraving, then, came from the Florentine Maso Finiguerra, about the
year of our salvation 1460; for of all the works which that master engraved in silver with
designs to be filled up with niello, he took impressions in clay, over which he poured melted
sulphur, which reproduced the lines of the design; and these, when filled with smoke-black
mixed with oil, produced the same effect as the silver. He also did the same with damped paper
and with the same tint, going over the whole with a round and smooth roller, which not only
gave the designs the appearance of prints, but they also came out as if drawn with the pen.
This master was followed by Baccio Baldini, a goldsmith of Florence, who, not having much power
of design, took all that he did from the invention and design of Sandro Botticelli. And this
method, coming to the knowledge of Andrea Mantegna in Rome, was the reason that he made a beginning
with engraving many of his works, as was said in his Life.

This invention having afterwards passed into Flanders, a certain Martin, who was held to be
an excellent painter in Antwerp at that time, executed many works, and sent to Italy a great
number of printed designs, which were all signed in the following manner: "M.C." The first
of these were the Five Foolish Virgins with their lamps extinguished, the Five Wise Virgins
with their lamps burning, and a Christ Crucified, with S. John and the Madonna at the foot
of the Cross, which was so good an engraving, that Gherardo, the Florentine illuminator, set
himself to copy it with the burin, and succeeded very well; but he went no further with this,
for he did not live long. Martin then published four round engravings of the four Evangelists,
and Jesus Christ with the twelve Apostles, in small sheets, Veronica with six Saints, of the
same size, and some coats of arms of German noblemen, supported by men, both naked and clothed,
and also by women. He published, likewise, a S. George slaying the Dragon, a Christ standing
before Pilate, who is washing his hands, and a Passing of Our Lady, with all the Apostles,
a work of some size, which was one of the best designs that this master ever engraved. In another
he represented S. Anthony beaten by Devils, and carried through the air by a vast number of
them in the most varied and bizarre forms that could possibly be imagined; which sheet so pleased
Michelagnolo, when he was a mere lad, that he set himself to colour it.

After this Martin, Albrecht Dürer began to give attention to prints of the same kind at Antwerp,
but with more design and better judgment, and with more beautiful invention, seeking to imitate
the life and to draw near to the Italian manners, which he always held in much account. And
thus, while still quite young, he executed many works which were considered as beautiful as
those of Martin; and he engraved them with his own hand, signing them with his name. In the
year 1503 he published a little Madonna, in which he surpassed both Martin and his own self;
and afterwards many other sheets with horses, two in each sheet, taken from nature and very
beautiful. In another he depicted the Prodigal Son, in the guise of a peasant, kneeling with
his hands clasped and gazing up to Heaven, while some swine are eating from a trough; and in
this work are some most beautiful huts after the manner of German cottages. He engraved a little
S. Sebastian, bound, with the arms upraised; and a Madonna seated with the Child in her arms,
with the light from a window falling upon her, a small work, than which there is nothing better
to be seen. He also made a Flemish woman on horseback, with a groom at her feet; and on a larger
copper-plate he engraved a nymph being carried away by a sea-monster, while some other nymphs
are bathing. On a plate of the same size he engraved with supreme delicacy of workmanship,
attaining to the final perfection of this art, a Diana beating a nymph, who has fled for protection
to the bosom of a satyr; in which sheet Albrecht sought to prove that he was able to make nudes.

But although those masters were extolled at that time in those countries, in ours their works
are commended only for the diligent execution of the engraving. I am willing, indeed, to believe
that Albrecht was perhaps not able to do better because, not having any better models, he drew,
when he had to make nudes, from one or other of his assistants, who must have had bad figures,
as Germans generally have when naked, although one sees many from those parts who are fine
men when in their clothes. In various little printed sheets he executed figures of peasant
men and women in different Flemish costumes, some playing on the bagpipes and dancing, some
selling fowls and suchlike things, and others in many other attitudes. He also drew a man sleeping
in a bathroom who has Venus near him, leading him into temptation in a dream, while Love is
diverting himself by mounting on stilts, and the Devil blows into his ears with a pair of bellows.
And he engraved two different figures of S. Christopher carrying the Infant Christ, both very
beautiful, and executed with much diligence in the close detail of the hair and in every other
respect.

After these works, perceiving how much time he consumed in engraving on copper, and happening
to have in his possession a great abundance of subjects drawn in various ways, he set himself
to making woodcuts, a method of working in which those who have the greatest powers of design
find the widest field wherein to display their ability in its perfection. And in the year 1510
he published two little prints in this manner, in one of which is the Beheading of S. John,
and in the other the scene of the head of the same S. John being presented in a charger to
Herod, who is seated at table; with other sheets of S. Christopher, S. Sixtus the Pope, S.
Stephen, and S. Laurence. Then, having seen that this method of working was much easier than
engraving on copper, he pursued it and executed a S. Gregory chanting the Mass, accompanied
by the deacon and sub-deacon. And, growing in courage, in the year 1510 he represented on a
sheet of royal folio part of the Passion of Christ--that is, he executed four pieces, with
the intention of afterwards finishing the whole, these four being the Last Supper, the Taking
of Christ by Night in the Garden, His Descent into the Limbo of Hell in order to deliver the
Holy Fathers, and His glorious Resurrection. That second piece he also painted in a very beautiful
little picture in oils, which is now at Florence, in the possession of Signor Bernardetto de'
Medici. As for the eight other parts, although they were afterwards executed and printed with
the signature of Albrecht, to us it does not seem probable that they are the work of his hand,
seeing that they are poor stuff, and bear no resemblance to his manner, either in the heads,
or in the draperies, or in any other respect. Wherefore it is believed that they were executed
after his death, for the sake of gain, by other persons, who did not scruple to father them
on Albrecht. That this is true is also proved by the circumstance that in the year 1511 he
represented the whole life of Our Lady in twenty sheets of the same size, executing it so well
that it would not be possible, whether in invention, in the composition of the perspective-views,
in the buildings, in the costumes, or in the heads of old and young, to do better. Of a truth,
if this man, so able, so diligent, and so versatile, had had Tuscany instead of Flanders for
his country, and had been able to study the treasures of Rome, as we ourselves have done, he
would have been the best painter of our land, even as he was the rarest and most celebrated
that has ever appeared among the Flemings. In the same year, continuing to give expression
to his fantasies, Albrecht resolved to execute fifteen woodcuts of the same size, representing
the terrible vision that S. John the Evangelist described in his Apocalypse on the Isle of
Patmos. And so, setting his hand to the work, with his extravagant imagination, so well suited
to such a subject, he depicted all those things both of heaven and of earth so beautifully,
that it was a marvel, and with such a variety of forms in those animals and monsters, that
it was a great light to many of our craftsmen, who have since availed themselves of the vast
abundance of his beautiful fantasies and inventions. By the hand of the same master, also,
is a woodcut that is to be seen of a nude Christ, who has round Him the Mysteries of His Passion,
and is weeping for our sins, with His hands to His face; and this, for a small work, is not
otherwise than worthy of praise.

Then, having grown both in power and in courage, as he saw that his works were prized, Albrecht
executed some copper-plates that astonished the world. He also set himself to make an engraving,
for printing on a sheet of half-folio, of a figure of Melancholy, with all the instruments
that reduce those who use them, or rather, all mankind, to a melancholy humour; and in this
he succeeded so well, that it would not be possible to do more delicate engraving with the
burin. He executed three small plates of Our Lady, all different one from another, and most
subtle in engraving. But it would take too long if I were to try to enumerate all the works
that issued from Albrecht's hand; let it be enough for the present to tell that, having drawn
a Passion of Christ in thirty-six parts, and having engraved these, he made an agreement with
Marc' Antonio Bolognese that they should publish the sheets in company; and thus, arriving
in Venice, this work was the reason that marvellous prints of the same kind were afterwards
executed in Italy, as will be related below.

While Francesco Francia was working at his painting in Bologna, there was among his many disciples
a young man called Marc' Antonio, who, being more gifted than the others, was much brought
forward by him, and, from having been many years with Francia and greatly beloved by him, acquired
the surname of De' Franci. This Marc' Antonio, who was more able in design than his master,
handled the burin with facility and grace, and executed in niello girdles and many other things
much in favour at that time, which were very beautiful, for the reason that he was indeed most
excellent in that profession. Having then been seized, as happens to many, with a desire to
go about the world and see new things and the methods of other craftsmen, with the gracious
leave of Francia he went off to Venice, where he was well received by the craftsmen of that
city. About the same time there arrived in Venice some Flemings with many copper-plate engravings
and woodcuts by Albrecht Dürer, which were seen by Marc' Antonio on the Piazza di S. Marco;
and he was so amazed at the manner and method of the work of Albrecht, that he spent on those
sheets almost all the money that he had brought from Bologna. Among other things, he bought
the Passion of Jesus Christ, which had been engraved on thirty-six wood-blocks and printed
not long before on sheets of quarter-folio by the same Albrecht. This work began with the Sin
of Adam and the scene of the Angel expelling him from Paradise, and continued down to the Descent
of the Holy Spirit.

Marc' Antonio, having considered what honour and profit might be acquired by one who should
apply himself to that art in Italy, formed the determination to give his attention to it with
all possible assiduity and diligence. He thus began to copy those engravings by Albrecht Dürer,
studying the manner of each stroke and every other detail of the prints that he had bought,
which were held in such estimation on account of their novelty and their beauty, that everyone
sought to have some. Having then counterfeited on copper, with engraving as strong as that
of the woodcuts that Albrecht had executed, the whole of the said Life and Passion of Christ
in thirty-six parts, he added to these the signature that Albrecht used for all his works,
which was "A.D.," and they proved to be so similar in manner, that, no one knowing that they
had been executed by Marc' Antonio, they were ascribed to Albrecht, and were bought and sold
as works by his hand. News of this was sent in writing to Albrecht, who was in Flanders, together
with one of the counterfeit Passions executed by Marc' Antonio; at which he flew into such
a rage that he left Flanders and went to Venice, where he appeared before the Signoria and
laid a complaint against Marc' Antonio. But he could obtain no other satisfaction but this,
that Marc' Antonio should no longer use the name or the above-mentioned signature of Albrecht
on his works.

After this affair, Marc' Antonio went off to Rome, where he gave his whole attention to design;
and Albrecht returned to Flanders, where he found that another rival had already begun to execute
many most delicate engravings in competition with him. This was Lucas of Holland,[14] who,
although he was not as fine a master of design as Albrecht, was yet in many respects his equal
with the burin. Among the many large and beautiful works that Lucas executed, the first were
two in 1509, round in shape, in one of which is Christ bearing the Cross, and in the other
His Crucifixion. Afterwards he published a Samson, a David on horseback, and a S. Peter Martyr,
with his tormentors; and then he made a copper-plate engraving of Saul seated with the young
David playing in his presence. And not long after, having made a great advance, he executed
a very large plate with the most delicate engraving, of Virgil suspended from the window in
the basket, with some heads and figures so marvellous, that they were the reason that Albrecht,
growing more subtle in power through this competition, produced some printed sheets of such
excellence, that nothing better could be done. In these, wishing to display his ability, Albrecht
made an armed man on horseback, representing Human Strength, which is so well finished, that
one can see the lustre of the arms and of the black horse's coat, which is a difficult thing
to reproduce in design. This stalwart horseman had Death, hour-glass in hand, beside him, and
the Devil behind. There was also a long-haired dog, executed with the most subtle delicacy
that can possibly be achieved in engraving. In the year 1512 there issued from the hand of
the same master sixteen little scenes of the Passion of Jesus Christ, engraved so well on copper,
that there are no little figures to be seen that are more beautiful, sweet, and graceful, nor
any that are stronger in relief.

Spurred likewise by rivalry, the same Lucas of Holland executed twelve similar plates, very
beautiful, and yet not so perfect in engraving and design; and, in addition to these, a S.
George who is comforting the Maiden, who is weeping because she is destined to be devoured
by the Dragon; and also a Solomon, who is worshipping idols; the Baptism of Christ; Pyramus
and Thisbe; and Ahasuerus with Queen Esther kneeling before him. Albrecht, on his part, not
wishing to be surpassed by Lucas either in the number or in the excellence of his works, engraved
a nude figure on some clouds, and a Temperance with marvellous wings, holding a cup of gold
and a bridle, with a most delicate little landscape; and then a S. Eustachio kneeling before
the stag, which has the Crucifix between its horns, a sheet which is amazing, and particularly
for the beauty of some dogs in various attitudes, which could not be more perfect. Among the
many children of various kinds that he made for the decoration of arms and devices, he engraved
some who are holding a shield, wherein is a Death with a cock for crest, the feathers of which
are rendered in such detail, that it would be impossible to execute anything more delicate
with the burin.

Finally, he published the sheet with S. Jerome in the habit of a Cardinal, writing, with the
Lion sleeping at his feet. In this work Albrecht represented a room with windows of glass,
through which stream the rays of the sun, falling on the place where the Saint sits writing,
with an effect so natural, that it is a marvel; besides which, there are books, timepieces,
writings, and so many other things, that nothing more and nothing better could be done in this
field of art. Not long afterwards, in the year 1523, he executed a Christ with the twelve Apostles,
in little figures, which was almost the last of his works. There may also be seen prints of
many heads taken from life by him, such as that of Erasmus of Rotterdam, that of Cardinal Albrecht
of Brandenburg, Elector of the Empire, and also his own. Nor, with all the engravings that
he produced, did he ever abandon painting; nay, he was always executing panels, canvases, and
other paintings, all excellent, and, what is more, he left many writings on matters connected
with engraving, painting, perspective, and architecture.

But to return to the subject of engraving: the works of Albrecht Dürer induced Lucas of Holland
to follow in his steps to the best of his power. After the works already mentioned, Lucas engraved
on copper four scenes from the life of Joseph, and also the four Evangelists, the three Angels
who appeared to Abraham in the Valley of Mamre, Susannah in the Bath, David praying, Mordecai
riding in Triumph on Horseback, Lot made drunk by his Daughters, the Creation of Adam and Eve,
God commanding them that they shall not eat of the Fruit from the Tree that He points out to
them, and Cain killing his brother Abel; all which sheets were published in the year 1529.
But that which did more than anything else to bring renown and fame to Lucas, was a large sheet
in which he represented the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ; with another wherein Pilate is showing
Him to the people, saying, "Ecce Homo!" These sheets, which are large, and contain a great
number of figures, are held to be excellent; as are, likewise, one with a Conversion of S.
Paul, and another showing him being led, blind, into Damascus. And let these works suffice
to prove that Lucas may be numbered among those who have handled the burin with ability.

The scenes of Lucas are very happy in composition, being executed with such clearness and so
free from confusion, that it seems certain that the action represented could not have taken
place in any other way; and they are arranged more in accordance with the rules of art than
those of Albrecht. Besides this, it is evident that he used a wise discretion in the engraving
of his works, for the reason that all those parts which recede little by little into the distance
are less strongly defined in proportion as they are lost to view, even as natural objects become
less clear to the eye when seen from afar. Indeed, he executed them with such thoughtful care,
and made them so soft and well blended, that they would not be better in colour; and his judicious
methods have opened the eyes of many painters. The same master engraved many little plates:
various figures of Our Lady, the twelve Apostles with Christ, many Saints, both male and female;
arms and helmet-crests, and other suchlike things. Very beautiful is a peasant who is having
a tooth drawn, and is feeling such pain, that he does not notice that meanwhile a woman is
robbing his purse. All these works of Albrecht and Lucas have brought it about that many other
Flemings and Germans after them have printed similar sheets of great beauty.

But returning to Marc' Antonio: having arrived in Rome, he engraved on copper a most lovely
drawing by Raffaello da Urbino, wherein was the Roman Lucretia killing herself, which he executed
with such diligence and in so beautiful a manner, that Raffaello, to whom it was straightway
carried by some friends, began to think of publishing in engravings some designs of works by
his hand, and then a drawing that he had formerly made of the Judgment of Paris, wherein, to
please himself, he had drawn the Chariot of the Sun, the nymphs of the woods, those of the
fountains, and those of the rivers, with vases, the helms of ships, and other beautiful things
of fancy all around; and when he had made up his mind, these were engraved by Marc' Antonio
in such a manner as amazed all Rome. After them was engraved the drawing of the Massacre of
the Innocents, with most beautiful nudes, women and children, which was a rare work; and then
the Neptune, with little stories of Æneas around it, the beautiful Rape of Helen, also after
a drawing by Raffaello, and another design in which may be seen the death of S. Felicita, who
is being boiled in oil, while her sons are beheaded. These works acquired such fame for Marc'
Antonio, that his engravings were held in much higher estimation, on account of their good
design, than those of the Flemings; and the merchants made very large profits out of them.

Raffaello had kept an assistant called Baviera for many years to grind his colours; and since
this Baviera had a certain ability, Raffaello ordained that he should attend to the printing
of the engravings executed by Marc' Antonio, to the end that all his compositions might thus
be finished, and then sold in gross and in detail to all who desired them. And so, having set
to work, they printed a vast number, which brought very great profit to Raffaello; and all
the plates were signed by Marc' Antonio with the following signatures, "R.S." for the name
of Raffaello Sanzio of Urbino, and "M.F." for that of Marc' Antonio. Among these works were
a Venus embraced by Love, after a drawing by Raffaello, and a scene in which God the Father
is blessing the seed of Abraham, with the handmaiden and two children. Next were engraved all
the round pictures that Raffaello had painted in the apartments of the Papal Palace, such as
the Universal Knowledge, Calliope with the musical instrument in her hand, Foresight, and Justice;
and then, after a small drawing, the scene which Raffaello had painted in the same apartment,
of Mount Parnassus, with Apollo, the Muses, and the Poets; and also that of Æneas carrying
Anchises on his back while Troy is burning, of which Raffaello had made the drawing in order
to paint a little picture. After this they engraved and printed another work of Raffaello,
Galatea in a car drawn over the sea by Dolphins, with some Tritons who are carrying off a Nymph.

These works finished, Marc' Antonio engraved many separate figures, likewise on copper, and
after drawings by Raffaello; an Apollo with a lyre in his hand; a figure of Peace, to whom
Love is offering an olive-branch; the three Theological and the four Moral Virtues, and a Jesus
Christ with the twelve Apostles, of the same size; a half-folio plate of the Madonna that Raffaello
had painted in the altar-piece of the Araceli, and likewise one of that which went to S. Domenico
in Naples, with Our Lady, S. Jerome, the Angel Raphael, and Tobias; and a little plate of Our
Lady seated on a chair and embracing the Infant Christ, who is half clothed, with many other
figures of the Madonna copied from the pictures which Raffaello had painted for various persons.
After these he engraved a young S. John the Baptist, seated in the desert, and then the picture
which Raffaello executed for S. Giovanni in Monte, of S. Cecilia with other Saints, which was
held to be a most beautiful sheet. When Raffaello had finished all the cartoons of the tapestries
for the Papal Chapel, which were afterwards woven in silk and gold, with stories of S. Paul,
S. Peter, and S. Stephen, Marc' Antonio engraved the Preaching of S. Paul, the Stoning of S.
Stephen, and the Blind Man receiving his Sight; which plates, what with the invention of Raffaello,
the grace of the design, and the diligent engraving of Marc' Antonio, were so beautiful, that
there was nothing better to be seen. He then engraved, after the invention of the same Raffaello,
a most beautiful Deposition from the Cross, with a Madonna in a swoon, who is marvellous; and
not long afterwards a plate, which is very beautiful, of that picture by Raffaello which went
to Palermo, of a Christ who is bearing the Cross, and also one of a drawing that Raffaello
had executed of a Christ in the air, with Our Lady, S. John the Baptist, and S. Catharine kneeling
on the ground, and S. Paul the Apostle standing, which was a large and very lovely engraving.
This and the others, after becoming spoiled and almost worn out through being too much used,
were carried away by Germans and others in the sack of Rome.

The same Marc' Antonio engraved the portrait of Pope Clement VII in profile, with the face
shaved, in the form of a medallion; one of the Emperor Charles V at the time when he was a
young man, and another of him at a riper age; and also one of Ferdinand, King of the Romans,
who afterwards succeeded Charles V as Emperor. He also made in Rome a portrait from life of
Messer Pietro Aretino, a very famous poet, which was the most beautiful that Marc' Antonio
ever executed; and, not long afterwards, portraits of the twelve ancient Emperors in medallions.
Of these sheets Raffaello sent some into Flanders to Albrecht Dürer, who praised Marc' Antonio
highly, and sent in return to Raffaello, in addition to many other sheets, his own portrait,
which was held to be a miracle of beauty.

Now, the fame of Marc' Antonio having grown very great, and the art of engraving having come
into credit and repute, many disciples had placed themselves under him in order to learn it.
And of their number, two who made great proficience were Marco da Ravenna, who signed his plates
with the signature of Raffaello, "R.S.," and Agostino Viniziano, who signed his works in the
following manner: "A.V." These two engraved and printed many designs by Raffaello, such as
one of Our Lady with Christ lying dead at full length, and at His feet S. John, the Magdalene,
Nicodemus, and the other Maries; and they engraved another plate of greater size, in which
is a Madonna, with the arms outstretched and the eyes raised towards Heaven, in an attitude
of supreme pity and sorrow, with Christ, in like manner, lying dead at full length.

Agostino afterwards engraved a large plate of the Nativity, with the Shepherds and Angels about
the hut, and God the Father above; and he executed many vases, both ancient and modern, and
also a censer, or rather, two women with a vase perforated at the top. He engraved a plate
with a man transformed into a wolf, who is stealing towards a bed in order to kill one who
is sleeping in it. And he also executed one of Alexander with Roxana, to whom that Prince is
presenting a royal crown, while some Loves are hovering about her and adorning her head, and
others are playing with the arms of Alexander.

The same masters together engraved the Last Supper of Christ with the twelve Apostles, on a
plate of some size, and an Annunciation, all after the designs of Raffaello; and then two stories
of the Marriage of Psyche, which had been painted by Raffaello not long before. In the end,
Agostino and the above-mentioned Marco between them engraved almost all the works that Raffaello
ever drew or painted, and made prints of them; and also many of the pictures painted by Giulio
Romano, after copies drawn for that purpose. And to the end that there might remain scarcely
a single work of Raffaello that had not been engraved by them, they finally made engravings
of the scenes that Giulio had painted in the Loggie after the designs of Raffaello.

There may still be seen some of the first plates, with the signature "M.R." for Marco Ravignano,
and others with the signature "A.V." for Agostino Viniziano, re-engraved by others after them,
such as the Creation of the World, and God forming the Animals; the Sacrifices of Cain and
Abel, and the Death of Abel; Abraham sacrificing Isaac; Noah's Ark, the Deluge, and the Animals
afterwards issuing from the Ark; the Passage of the Red Sea; the Delivery of the Laws from
Mount Sinai through Moses, and the Manna; David slaying Goliath, already engraved by Marc'
Antonio; Solomon building the Temple; the Judgment of the same Solomon between the two women,
and the Visit of the Queen of Sheba; and, from the New Testament, the Nativity and the Resurrection
of Christ, and the Descent of the Holy Spirit. All these were engraved and printed during the
lifetime of Raffaello.

After the death of Raffaello, Marco and Agostino separated, and Agostino was retained by Baccio
Bandinelli, the Florentine sculptor, who caused him to engrave after his design an anatomical
figure that he had formed out of lean bodies and dead men's bones; and then a Cleopatra. Both
these were held to be very good plates. Whereupon, growing in courage, Baccio drew, and caused
Agostino to engrave, a large plate--one of the largest, indeed, that had ever been engraved
up to that time--full of women clothed, and of naked men who are slaughtering the little innocents
by command of King Herod.

Marc' Antonio, meanwhile, continuing to work at engraving, executed some plates with small
figures of the twelve Apostles, in various manners, and many Saints, both male and female,
to the end that the poor painters who were weak in design might be able to avail themselves
of these in their need. He also engraved a nude young man, who has a lion at his feet, and
is seeking to furl a large banner, which is swollen out by the wind in a direction contrary
to his purpose; another who is carrying a pedestal on his back; and a little S. Jerome who
is meditating on death, placing a finger in the hollow of a skull that he has in his hand,
the invention and design of which were by Raffaello. Then he executed a figure of Justice,
which he copied from the tapestries of the Chapel; and afterwards an Aurora, drawn by two horses,
on which the Hours are placing bridles. He also copied the Three Graces from the antique; and
he engraved a scene of Our Lady ascending the steps of the Temple.

After these things, Giulio Romano, who in his modesty would never have any of his works engraved
during the lifetime of his master Raffaello, lest he should seem to wish to compete with him,
caused Marc' Antonio, after the death of Raffaello, to engrave two most beautiful battles of
horsemen on plates of some size, and all the stories of Venus, Apollo, and Hyacinthus, which
he had painted in the bathroom that is at the villa of Messer Baldassarre Turini da Pescia.
And he did the same with the four stories of the Magdalene and the four Evangelists that are
in the vaulting of the chapel of the Trinità, which were executed for a courtezan, although
the chapel now belongs to Messer Agnolo Massimi. By the same master was drawn and reproduced
in engraving a very beautiful ancient sarcophagus containing a lion-hunt, which was formerly
at Maiano, and is now in the court of S. Pietro; as well as one of the ancient scenes in marble
that are under the Arch of Constantine; and, finally, many scenes that Raffaello had designed
for the corridor and Loggie of the Palace, which have since been engraved once more by Tommaso
Barlacchi, together with those of the tapestries that Raffaello executed for the public Consistory.

After this, Giulio Romano caused Marc' Antonio to engrave twenty plates showing all the various
ways, attitudes, and positions in which licentious men have intercourse with women; and, what
was worse, for each plate Messer Pietro Aretino wrote a most indecent sonnet, insomuch that
I know not which was the greater, the offence to the eye from the drawings of Giulio, or the
outrage to the ear from the words of Aretino. This work was much censured by Pope Clement;
and if, when it was published, Giulio had not already left for Mantua, he would have been sharply
punished for it by the anger of the Pope. And since some of these sheets were found in places
where they were least expected, not only were they prohibited, but Marc' Antonio was taken
and thrown into prison; and he would have fared very badly if Cardinal de' Medici and Baccio
Bandinelli, who was then at Rome in the service of the Pope, had not obtained his release.
Of a truth, the gifts of God should not be employed, as they very often are, in things wholly
abominable, which are an outrage to the world.

Released from prison, Marc' Antonio finished engraving for Baccio Bandinelli a large plate
that he had previously begun, with a great number of nude figures engaged in roasting S. Laurence
on the gridiron, which was held to be truly beautiful, and was indeed engraved with incredible
diligence, although Bandinelli, complaining unjustly of Marc' Antonio to the Pope while that
master was executing it, said that he was committing many errors. But for this sort of gratitude
Bandinelli received the reward that his lack of courtesy deserved, for Marc' Antonio, having
heard the whole story, and having finished the plate, went, without Baccio being aware of it,
to the Pope, who took infinite delight in the arts of design; and he showed him first the original
drawing by Bandinelli, and then the printed engraving, from which the Pope recognized that
Marc' Antonio not only had committed no errors, but had even corrected with great judgment
many committed by Bandinelli, which were of no small importance, and had shown more knowledge
and craftsmanship in his engraving than had Baccio in his drawing. Wherefore the Pope commended
him greatly and ever afterwards received him with favour; and it is believed that he might
have done much for him, but the sack of Rome supervening, Marc' Antonio became little less
than a beggar, seeing that, besides losing all his property, he was forced to disburse a good
ransom in order to escape from the hands of the Spaniards. Which done, he departed from Rome,
never to return; and there are few works to be seen which were executed by him after that time.
Our arts are much indebted to Marc' Antonio, in that he made a beginning with engraving in
Italy, to the advantage and profit of art and to the convenience of her followers, in consequence
of which others have since executed the works that will be described hereafter.

Now Agostino Viniziano, of whom we have already spoken, came to Florence, after the circumstances
described above, with the intention of attaching himself to Andrea del Sarto, who was held
to be about the best painter in Italy after Raffaello. And so Andrea, persuaded by this Agostino
to have his works engraved, made a drawing of a Dead Christ supported by three Angels; but
since the attempt did not succeed exactly according to his fancy, he would never again allow
any work of his to be engraved. After his death, however, certain persons published engravings
of the Visitation of S. Elizabeth and of the Baptism of the people by S. John, taken from the
work in chiaroscuro that Andrea painted in the Scalzo at Florence. Marco da Ravenna, likewise,
in addition to the works already mentioned, which he executed in company with Agostino, also
engraved many others by himself, which are all good and worthy of praise, and are known by
his signature, which has been described above. Many others, also, have there been after these,
who have worked very well at engraving, and have brought it about that every country has been
able to see and enjoy the honoured labours of the most excellent masters.

Nor has there been wanting one who has had the enterprise to execute with wood-blocks prints
that possess the appearance of having been made with the brush after the manner of chiaroscuro,
which is an ingenious and difficult thing. This was Ugo da Carpi, who, although he was a mediocre
painter, was nevertheless a man of most subtle wit in strange and fanciful inventions. He it
was, as has been related in the thirtieth chapter of the Treatise on Technique, who first attempted,
and that with the happiest result, to work with two blocks, one of which he used for hatching
the shadows, in the manner of a copper-plate, and with the other he made the tint of colour,
cutting deeply with the strokes of the engraving, and leaving the lights so bright, that when
the impression was pulled off they appeared to have been heightened with lead-white. Ugo executed
in this manner, after a design drawn by Raffaello in chiaroscuro, a woodcut in which is a Sibyl
seated who is reading, with a clothed child giving her light with a torch. Having succeeded
in this, Ugo took heart and attempted to make prints with wood-blocks of three tints. The first
gave the shadow; the second, which was lighter in tone, made the middle tint, and the third,
cut deeply, gave the higher lights of the ground and left the white of the paper. And the result
of this, also, was so good, that he executed a woodcut of Æneas carrying Anchises on his back,
while Troy is burning. He then made a Deposition from the Cross, and the story of Simon Magus,
which had been used by Raffaello for the tapestries of the above-mentioned Chapel; and likewise
David slaying Goliath, and the Flight of the Philistines, of which Raffaello had prepared the
design in order to paint it in the Papal Loggie. And after many other works in chiaroscuro,
he executed in the same manner a Venus, with many Loves playing about her.

Now since, as I have said, he was a painter, I must not omit to tell that he painted in oils,
without using a brush, but with his fingers, and partly, also, with other bizarre instruments
of his own, an altar-piece which is on the altar of the Volto Santo in Rome. Upon this altar-piece,
being one morning with Michelagnolo at that altar to hear Mass, I saw an inscription saying
that Ugo da Carpi had painted it without a brush; and I laughed and showed the inscription
to Michelagnolo, who answered, also with a laugh, that it would have been better if he had
used a brush, for then he might have done it in a better manner.

The method of executing these two kinds of woodcuts, in imitation of chiaroscuro, thus invented
by Ugo da Carpi, was the reason that, many following in his steps, a great number of most beautiful
prints were produced by others. For after him Baldassarre Peruzzi, the painter of Siena, made
a similar woodcut in chiaroscuro, which was very beautiful, of Hercules driving Avarice, a
figure laden with vases of gold and silver, from Mount Parnassus, on which are the Muses in
various lovely attitudes. And Francesco Parmigiano engraved a Diogenes for a sheet of royal
folio laid open, which was a finer print than any that Ugo ever produced. The same Parmigiano,
having shown the method of making prints from three blocks to Antonio da Trento, caused him
to execute a large sheet in chiaroscuro of the Beheading of S. Peter and S. Paul. And afterwards
he executed another, but with two blocks only, of the Tiburtine Sibyl showing the Infant Christ
in the lap of the Virgin to the Emperor Octavian; a nude man seated, who has his back turned
in a beautiful attitude; and likewise an oval print of the Madonna lying down, with many others
by his hand that may be seen in various places, printed after his death by Joannicolo Vicentino.
But the most beautiful were executed later by Domenico Beccafumi of Siena, after the death
of Parmigiano, as will be related at greater length in the Life of Domenico.

Not otherwise than worthy of praise, also, is the method that has been invented of making engravings
more easily than with the burin, although they do not come out so clear--that is, with aquafortis,
first laying on the copper a coat of wax, varnish, or oil-colour, and then drawing the design
with an iron instrument that has a sharp point to cut through the wax, varnish, or colour,
whichever it may be, after which one pours over it the aquafortis, which eats into the copper
in such a manner that it leaves the lines of the design hollow, and impressions can be taken
from it. With this method Francesco Parmigiano executed many little things, which are full
of grace, such as the Nativity of Christ, a Dead Christ with the Maries weeping over Him, and
one of the tapestries executed for the Chapel after the designs of Raffaello, with many other
works.

After these masters, fifty sheets with varied and beautiful landscapes were produced by Battista,
a painter of Vicenza, and Battista del Moro of Verona. In Flanders, Hieronymus Cock has executed
engravings of the liberal arts; and in Rome, engravings have been done of the Visitation in
the Pace, painted by Fra Sebastiano Viniziano, of that by Francesco Salviati in the Misericordia,
and of the Feast of Testaccio; besides many works that have been engraved in Venice by the
painter Battista Franco, and by many other masters.

But to return to the simple copper-plate engravings; after Marc' Antonio had executed the many
works that have been mentioned above, Rosso arrived in Rome, and Baviera persuaded him that
he should have some of his works engraved; wherefore he commissioned Gian Jacopo Caraglio of
Verona, who was one of the most skilful craftsmen of that day, and who sought with all diligence
to imitate Marc' Antonio, to engrave a lean anatomical figure of his own, which holds a death's
head in the hand, and is seated on a serpent, while a swan is singing. This plate succeeded
so well, that the same Rosso afterwards caused engravings to be made, on plates of considerable
size, of some of the Labours of Hercules: the Slaying of the Hydra, the Combat with Cerberus,
the Killing of Cacus, the Breaking of the Bull's Horns, the Battle with the Centaurs, and the
Centaur Nessus carrying off Deianira. And these plates proved to be so beautiful and so well
engraved, that the same Jacopo executed, likewise after the design of Rosso, the story of the
daughters of Pierus, who, for seeking to contend with the Muses and to sing in competition
with them, were transformed into crows.

Baviera having then caused Rosso to draw twenty Gods in niches, with their attributes, for
a book, these were engraved by Gian Jacopo Caraglio in a very beautiful and graceful manner;
and also, not long afterwards, their Transformations; but of these Rosso did not make the drawings,
save only of two, for he had a difference with Baviera, and Baviera had ten of them executed
by Perino del Vaga. The two by Rosso were the Rape of Proserpine and the Transformation of
Philyra into a horse; and all were engraved with such diligence by Caraglio, that they have
always been prized. Caraglio afterwards began for Rosso the Rape of the Sabines, which would
have been a very rare work, but, the sack of Rome supervening, it could not be finished, for
Rosso went away, and the plates were all lost. And although this work has since come into the
hands of the printers, it has proved a miserable failure, for the engraving has been done by
one who had no knowledge of the art, and thought only of making money.

After this, Caraglio engraved for Francesco Parmigiano a plate of the Marriage of Our Lady,
and other works by the same master; and then another plate for Tiziano Vecelli, which was very
beautiful, of a Nativity that Tiziano had formerly painted. This Gian Jacopo Caraglio, after
having executed many copper-plates, being an ingenious spirit, gave his attention to engraving
cameos and crystals, in which he became no less excellent than he had been in the engraving
of copper-plates. And since then, having entered the service of the King of Poland, he has
occupied himself no longer with engraving on copper, now in his opinion a mean art, but with
the cutting of gems, with working in incavo, and with architecture; for which having been richly
rewarded by the liberality of that King, he has spent large sums in investments in the territory
of Parma, in order to be able to retire in his old age to the enjoyment of his native country
among his friends and disciples, after the labours of so many years.

After these masters came another excellent copper-plate engraver, Lamberto Suave,[15] by whose
hand are thirteen plates of Christ and the twelve Apostles, in which the execution of the engraving
is perfect in its delicacy. If Lamberto had possessed a more thorough mastery of design in
addition to the industry, patience, and diligence that he showed in all other points, he would
have been marvellous in every respect; as may be perceived clearly from a little sheet of S.
Paul writing, and from a larger sheet with the story of the Raising of Lazarus, in which there
are most beautiful things to be seen. Worthy of note, in particular, are the hollow rock in
the cavern which he represented as the burial-place of Lazarus, and the light that falls upon
some figures, all of which is executed with beautiful and fanciful invention.

No little ability, likewise, has been shown in this profession by Giovan Battista Mantovano,
a disciple of Giulio Romano; among other works, in a Madonna who has the Child in her arms
and the moon under her feet, and in some very beautiful heads with helmet-crests after the
antique; in two sheets, in which are a captain of mercenaries on foot and one on horseback,
and also in a sheet wherein is a Mars in armour, who is seated upon a bed, while Venus gazes
on a Cupid whom she is suckling, which has in it much that is good. Very fanciful, also, are
two large sheets by the hand of the same master, in which is the Burning of Troy, executed
with extraordinary invention, design, and grace. These and many other sheets by the same hand
are signed with the letters "J.B.M."

And no less excellent than any of those mentioned above has been Enea Vico of Parma, who engraved
the well-known copper-plate of the Rape of Helen by Rosso, and also another plate after the
design of the same painter, of Vulcan with some Loves, who are fashioning arrows at his forge,
while the Cyclopes are also at work, which was truly a most beautiful engraving. He executed
the Leda of Michelagnolo on another, and also an Annunciation after the design of Tiziano,
the story of Judith that Michelagnolo painted in the Chapel, the portrait of Duke Cosimo de'
Medici as a young man, in full armour, after the drawing by Bandinelli, and likewise the portrait
of Bandinelli himself; and then the Contest of Cupid and Apollo in the presence of all the
Gods. And if Enea had been maintained and rewarded for his labours by Bandinelli, he would
have engraved many other beautiful plates for him. Afterwards, Francesco, a protégé of the
Salviati, and an excellent painter, being in Florence, and assisted by the liberality of Duke
Cosimo, commissioned Enea to engrave the large plate of the Conversion of S. Paul, full of
horses and soldiers, which was held to be very beautiful, and gave Enea a great name. The same
Enea then executed the portrait of Signor Giovanni de' Medici, father of Duke Cosimo, with
an ornament full of figures. He engraved, also, the portrait of the Emperor Charles V, with
an ornament covered with appropriate Victories and trophies, for which he was rewarded by His
Majesty and praised by all; and on another plate, very well engraved, he represented the victory
that the Emperor gained on the Elbe. For Doni he executed some heads from nature in the manner
of medallions, with beautiful ornaments: King Henry of France, Cardinal Bembo, Messer Lodovico
Ariosto, the Florentine Gello, Messer Lodovico Domenichi, Signora Laura Terracina, Messer Cipriano
Morosino, and Doni himself. He also engraved for Don Giulio Clovio, a most excellent illuminator,
a plate of a S. George on horseback who is slaying the Dragon, in which, although it was, one
might say, one of the first works that he engraved, he acquitted himself very well.

Afterwards, being a man of lofty genius, and desiring to pass on to greater and more honourable
undertakings, Enea applied himself to the study of antiquities, and in particular of ancient
medals, of which he has published several books in engraving, wherein are the true effigies
of many Emperors and their wives, with every kind of inscription and reverse that could bring
all who delight in them to a clear understanding of their stories; for which he has rightly
won great praise, as he still does. And those who have found fault with him for his books of
medals have been in the wrong, for whoever shall consider the labours that he has performed,
and how useful and beautiful these are, must perforce excuse him, even though he may have erred
in a few matters of little importance; and such errors, which are not committed save from faulty
information, from a too ready credulity, or from having opinions differing from others with
some show of reason, are worthy to be excused, seeing that Aristotle, Pliny, and many others
have been guilty of the like.

Enea also designed to the common satisfaction and benefit of all mankind fifty costumes of
different nations, such as were worn by men and women, peasants and citizens, in Italy, in
France, in Spain, in Portugal, in England, in Flanders, and in other parts of the world; which
was an ingenious work, both fanciful and beautiful. He executed, also, a genealogical tree
of all the Emperors, which was a thing of great beauty. And finally, after much toil and travailing,
he now lives in repose under the shadow of Alfonso II, Duke of Ferrara, for whom he has made
a genealogical tree of all the Marquises and Dukes of the House of Este. For all these works
and many others that he has executed, as he still continues to do, I have thought it right
to make this honourable record of him among so many other men of the arts.

Many others have occupied themselves with copper-plate engraving, who, although they have not
attained to such perfection, have none the less benefited the world with their labours, by
bringing many scenes and other works of excellent masters into the light of day, and by thus
giving the means of seeing the various inventions and manners of the painters to those who
are not able to go to the places where the principal works are, and conveying to the ultramontanes
a knowledge of many things that they did not know. And although many plates have been badly
executed through the avarice of the printers, eager more for gain than for honour, yet in certain
others, besides those that have been mentioned, there may be seen something of the good; as
in the large design of the Last Judgment of Michelagnolo Buonarroti on the front wall of the
Papal Chapel, engraved by Giorgio Mantovano, and in the engravings by Giovan Battista de' Cavalieri
of the Crucifixion of S. Peter and the Conversion of S. Paul painted in the Pauline Chapel
at Rome. This Giovan Battista has also executed copper-plate engravings, besides other designs,
of the Meditation of S. John the Baptist, of the Deposition from the Cross that Daniello Ricciarelli
of Volterra painted in a chapel in the Trinità at Rome, of a Madonna with many Angels, and
of a vast number of other works. Moreover, many things taken from Michelagnolo have been engraved
by others at the commission of Antonio Lanferri, who has employed printers for the same purpose.
These have published books of all the kinds of fishes, and also the Phaethon, the Tityus, the
Ganymede, the Archers, the Bacchanalia, the Dream, the Pietà, and the Crucifix, all done by
Michelagnolo for the Marchioness of Pescara; and, in addition, the four Prophets of the Chapel
and other scenes and drawings have been engraved and published, but executed so badly, that
I think it well to be silent as to the names of those engravers and printers.

But I must not be silent about the above-mentioned Antonio Lanferri and Tommaso Barlacchi,
for they, as well as others, have employed many young men to engrave plates after original
drawings by the hands of a vast number of masters, insomuch that it is better to say nothing
of these works, lest it should become wearisome. And in this manner have been published, among
other plates, grotesques, ancient temples, cornices, bases, capitals, and many other suchlike
things, with all their measurements.

Seeing everything reduced to a miserable manner, and moved by compassion, Sebastiano Serlio,
an architect of Bologna, has engraved on wood and copper two books of architecture, in which,
among other things, are thirty doors of the Rustic Order, and twenty in a more delicate style;
which book is dedicated to King Henry of France. Antonio L'Abacco, likewise, has published
plates in a beautiful manner of all the notable antiquities of Rome, with their measurements,
executed with great mastery and with very subtle engraving by ... Perugino. Nor has less been
accomplished in this field by the architect Jacopo Barozzo of Vignola, who in a book of copper-plate
engravings has shown with simple rules how to enlarge or to diminish in due proportion every
part of the five Orders of Architecture, a work most useful in that art, for which we are much
indebted to him; even as we are to Giovanni Cugini[16] of Paris for his engravings and writings
on architecture.

In Rome, besides the masters named above, Niccolò Beatricio[17] of Lorraine has given so much
attention to engraving with the burin, that he has executed many plates worthy of praise; such
as two pieces of sarcophagi with battles of horsemen, engraved on copper, and other plates
full of various animals very well executed, and a scene showing the Widow's Daughter being
restored to life by Jesus Christ, engraved in a bold manner from the design of Girolamo Mosciano,
a painter of Brescia. The same master has engraved an Annunciation from a drawing by the hand
of Michelagnolo, and has also executed prints of the Navicella of mosaic that Giotto made in
the portico of S. Pietro.

From Venice, likewise, have come many most beautiful engravings on wood and on copper; on wood,
after Tiziano, many landscapes, a Nativity of Christ, a S. Jerome, and a S. Francis; and on
copper the Tantalus, the Adonis, and many other plates, which have been engraved by Giulio
Bonasone of Bologna, together with some others by Raffaello, by Giulio Romano, by Parmigiano,
and by all the other masters whose drawings he has been able to obtain. And Battista Franco,
a painter of Venice, has engraved, partly with the burin and partly with aquafortis, many works
by the hands of various masters, such as the Nativity of Christ, the Adoration of the Magi,
the Preaching of S. Peter, some plates from the Acts of the Apostles, and many stories from
the Old Testament. So far, indeed, has this practice of making prints been carried, that those
who make a profession of it keep draughtsmen continually employed in copying every beautiful
work as it appears, and put it into prints. Wherefore there came from France, after the death
of Rosso, engravings of all the work by his hand that could be found, such as Clelia with the
Sabine women passing the river; some masks after the manner of the Fates, executed for King
Francis; a bizarre Annunciation; a Dance of ten women; and King Francis advancing alone into
the Temple of Jupiter, leaving behind him Ignorance and other similar figures, which were executed
during the lifetime of Rosso by the copper-plate engraver Renato.[18] And many more have been
drawn and engraved since Rosso's death; among many other works, all the stories of Ulysses,
and, to say nothing of the rest, vases, chandeliers, candelabra, salt-cellars, and a vast number
of other suchlike things made in silver after designs of Rosso.

Luca Penni, also, has published engravings of two Satyrs giving drink to a Bacchus, a Leda
taking the arrows from the quiver of a Cupid, Susannah in the Bath, and many other plates copied
from the designs of the same Rosso and of Francesco Primaticcio of Bologna, now Abbot of S.
Martin in France. And among these engravings are the Judgment of Paris, Abraham sacrificing
Isaac, a Madonna, Christ marrying S. Catharine, Jove changing Callisto into a bear, the Council
of the Gods, Penelope weaving with her women, and other things without number, engraved on
wood, and executed for the most part with the burin; by reason of which the wits of the craftsmen
have become very subtle, insomuch that little figures have been engraved so well, that it would
not be possible to give them greater delicacy. And who can see without marvelling the works
of Francesco Marcolini of Forlì? Who, besides other things, printed the book of the Garden
of Thoughts from wood-blocks, placing at the beginning an astrologer's sphere and a head of
himself after the design of Giuseppe Porta of Castelnuovo della Garfagnana; in which book are
various fanciful figures, such as Fate, Envy, Calamity, Timidity, Praise, and many others of
the same kind, which were held to be most beautiful. Not otherwise than praiseworthy, also,
were the figures that Gabriele Giolito, a printer of books, placed in the Orlando Furioso,
for they were executed in a beautiful manner of engraving. And even such, likewise, were the
eleven large anatomical plates that were done by Andrea Vessalio after the drawings of Johann
of Calcar, a most excellent Flemish painter, which were afterwards copied on smaller sheets
and engraved on copper by Valverde, who wrote on anatomy after Vessalio.

Next, among the many plates that have issued from the hands of Flemings within the last ten
years, very beautiful are some drawn by one Michele,[19] a painter, who worked for many years
in two chapels that are in the Church of the Germans at Rome. These plates contain the story
of Moses and the Serpents, and thirty-two stories of Psyche and Love, which are held to be
most beautiful. Hieronymus Cock, also a Fleming, has engraved a large plate after the invention
and design of Martin Heemskerk, of Delilah cutting off the locks of Samson; and not far away
is the Temple of the Philistines, in which, the towers having fallen, one sees ruin and destruction
in the dead, and terror in the living, who are taking to flight. The same master has executed
in three smaller plates the Creation of Adam and Eve, the Eating of the Fruit, and the Angel
driving them out of Paradise; and in four other plates of the same size, in the first the Devil
imprinting avarice and ambition into the heart of man, and in the others all the passions that
result from those two. There may also be seen twenty-seven plates of the same size by his hand,
with stories from the Old Testament after the expulsion of Adam from Paradise, drawn by Martin
in a bold, well-practised, and most resolute manner, which is very similar to the Italian.
Hieronymus afterwards engraved six round plates with the history of Susannah, and twenty-three
other stories from the Old Testament, similar to those of Abraham already mentioned--namely,
six plates with the story of David, eight plates with that of Solomon, four with that of Balaam,
and five with those of Judith and Susannah. And from the New Testament he engraved twenty-nine
plates, beginning with the Annunciation of the Virgin, and continuing down to the whole Passion
and Death of Jesus Christ. He also engraved, after the drawings of the same Martin, the seven
Works of Mercy, and the story of the rich Lazarus and the poor Lazarus, and four plates with
the Parable of the Samaritan wounded by thieves, with four other plates of the Parable of the
Talents, written by S. Matthew in his eighteenth chapter.

At the time when Hans Liefrinck executed in competition with him ten plates of the Life and
Death of S. John the Baptist, he engraved the Twelve Tribes on an equal number of plates; Reuben
upon a hog, representing Sensuality; Simeon with a sword as a symbol of Homicide; and in like
manner the other heads of Tribes with attributes appropriate to the nature of each. He then
executed ten plates, engraved with greater delicacy, with the stories and acts of David, from
the time of his being anointed by Samuel to his going before Saul; and he engraved six other
plates with the story of how Amnon became enamoured of his sister Tamar and ravished her, and
the death of that same Amnon. And not long afterwards he executed ten plates of similar size
with the history of Job; and from thirteen chapters of the Proverbs of Solomon he drew subjects
for five plates of the same kind. He also engraved the story of the Magi; and then, on six
plates, the Parable that is in the twelfth chapter of S. Matthew, of those who for various
reasons refused to go to the King's Feast, and of him who went without having a wedding-garment;
and six plates of equal size with some of the acts of the Apostles. And in eight similar plates
he engraved figures of women of perfect excellence, in various costumes: six from the Old Testament--Jael,
Ruth, Abigail, Judith, Esther, and Susannah; and two from the New--Mary the Virgin, Mother
of Jesus Christ, and Mary Magdalene.

After these works he carried out the engraving of the Triumphs of Patience in six plates, with
various things of fancy. In the first, in a chariot, is Patience, who has in her hand a standard,
on which is a rose among thorns. In the second may be seen a burning heart, beaten by three
hammers, upon an anvil; and the chariot of this second plate is drawn by two figures--namely,
by Desire, who has wings upon the shoulders, and by Hope, who has an anchor in the hand, and
behind them Fortune, with her wheel broken, is led as a prisoner. In the next plate is Christ
on a chariot, with the standard of the Cross and of His Passion, with the Evangelists at the
corners in the form of animals; and this chariot is drawn by two lambs, and has behind it four
prisoners--the Devil, the World, or rather, the Flesh, Sin, and Death. In another Triumph is
Isaac, nude, upon a camel; on the banner that he holds in his hand are a pair of prisoner's
irons; and behind him is drawn the altar with the ram, the knife, and the fire. In the next
plate he made Joseph riding in triumph on an ox crowned with ears of corn and fruits, with
a standard on which is a bee-hive; and the prisoners that are led behind him are Anger and
Envy, who are devouring a heart. He engraved in another Triumph David on a lion, with the harp,
and with a standard in his hand, on which is a bit; and behind him is Saul as a prisoner, and
Shimei, with his tongue protruding. In another plate is Tobias riding in triumph on an ass,
and holding in his hand a banner, on which is a fountain; and behind him Poverty and Blindness,
bound, are led as prisoners. And in the last of the six Triumphs is S. Stephen the Proto-martyr,
who is riding in triumph on an elephant, and has a standard with a figure of Charity; and the
prisoners behind him are his persecutors. All these were inventions full of fancy, and very
ingenious; and they were all engraved by Hieronymus Cock, whose hand is very bold, sure, and
resolute.

The same master engraved a plate of Fraud and Avarice, fantastic and beautiful, and another
very lovely plate of a Feast of Bacchanals, with children dancing. On another he represented
Moses passing across the Red Sea, according as it had been painted by Agnolo Bronzino, a painter
of Florence, in the upper chapel in the Palace of the Duke of Florence; and in competition
with him, also after the design of Bronzino, Giorgio Mantovano engraved a Nativity of Jesus
Christ, which was very beautiful. After these works, Hieronymus engraved twelve plates of the
victories, battles, and deeds of arms of Charles V, for him who was the inventor of the subjects;
and for Verese, a painter and a great master of perspective in those parts, twenty plates with
various buildings. For Hieronymus Bosch he executed a plate of S. Martin, with a barque full
of Devils in the most bizarre forms. And he made another of an alchemist who loses all his
possessions, distilling away his brains and consuming all that he has in various ways, insomuch
that in the end he takes refuge in the hospital with his wife and children; which plate was
designed for him by a painter, who caused him to engrave the Seven Mortal Sins, with Demons
of various forms, which was a fantastic and laughable work. He also engraved a Last Judgment;
an old man who is seeking with a lantern for peace among the wares of the world, and finds
it not; likewise a great fish that is devouring some little fishes; a figure of Carnival enjoying
the pleasures of the table with many others, and driving Lent away, and another of Lent driving
away Carnival; and so many other whimsical and fantastic inventions, that it would be wearisome
to attempt to speak of them all.

Many other Flemings have imitated the manner of Albrecht Dürer with the greatest care and subtlety,
as may be seen from their engravings, and in particular from those of ...[20] who has engraved
in little figures four stories of the Creation of Adam, four of the lives of Abraham and of
Lot, and four others of Susannah, which are very beautiful. In like manner, G... P...[21] has
engraved the Seven Works of Mercy in seven small round plates, eight stories taken from the
Books of Kings, Regulus placed in the barrel filled with nails, and an Artemisia, which is
a plate of great beauty. J... B...[22] has executed figures of the four Evangelists, which
are so small that it seems scarcely possible that he could have done them; and also five other
very fine plates, in the first of which is a Virgin drawn into the grave by Death in all the
freshness of her youth, and in the second is Adam, in the third a peasant, in the fourth a
Bishop, and in the fifth a Cardinal, each, like the Virgin, called by Death to his last account.
And in some others are many Germans going on parties of pleasure with their wives, and some
beautiful and fantastic Satyrs. By ... are plates of the four Evangelists, engraved with great
care, and no less beautiful than are twelve stories of the Prodigal Son executed with much
diligence by the hand of M.... And, finally, Franz Floris, a painter famous in those parts,
has produced a great number of works and drawings which have since been engraved, for the most
part by Hieronymus Cock, such as ten plates of the Labours of Hercules, a large plate with
all the activities of the life of man, another with the Horatii and Curiatii engaged in combat
in the lists, the Judgment of Solomon, and the Battle between Hercules and the Pygmies. The
same master, also, has engraved a Cain who has killed Abel, over whose body Adam and Eve are
weeping; an Abraham who is about to sacrifice Isaac on the altar, and a vast number of other
plates, so full of variety and invention, that it is indeed marvellous to think of all that
has been done in engravings on copper and wood. Lastly, it is enough to draw attention to the
engravings of the portraits of the Painters, Sculptors, and Architects in this our book, which
were drawn by Giorgio Vasari and his pupils, and engraved by Maestro Cristofano ...,[23] who
has executed in Venice, as he still continues to do, a vast number of works worthy of record.

In conclusion, for all the assistance that the ultramontanes have received from seeing the
various Italian manners by means of engravings, and that the Italians have received from having
seen those of the ultramontanes and foreigners, thanks should be rendered, for the most part,
to Marc' Antonio Bolognese, in that, besides the circumstance that he played a great part in
the beginning of this profession, as has been related, there has not as yet been one who has
much surpassed him, although some few have equalled him in certain points. This Marc' Antonio
died at Bologna, not long after his departure from Rome. In our book are some drawings of Angels
by his hand, done with the pen, and some other very beautiful sheets drawn from the apartments
that Raffaello da Urbino painted. In one of these apartments Marc' Antonio, as a young man,
was portrayed by Raffaello in one of those grooms who are carrying Pope Julius II, in that
part where the High-Priest Onias is praying.

And let this be the end of the Lives of Marc' Antonio Bolognese and of all the other engravers
of prints mentioned above, of whom I have thought it right to give this long but necessary
account, in order to satisfy not only the students of our arts, but also all those who delight
in works of that kind.

FOOTNOTE:

[14] Luca di Leyden.

[15] Lambert Zutmann.

[16] Jean Cousin.

[17] Nicolas Beautrizet.

[18] René Boyvin.

[19] Michael Coxie.

[20] Albrecht Aldegrever.

[21] Georg Pencz.

[22] Hans Beham.

[23] Cristofano Coriolano.

ANTONIO DA SAN GALLO (THE YOUNGER)

LIFE OF ANTONIO DA SAN GALLO (THE YOUNGER)

ARCHITECT OF FLORENCE

How many great and illustrious Princes, abounding with infinite wealth, would leave behind
them a name renowned and glorious, if they possessed, together with their store of the goods
of Fortune, a mind filled with grandeur and inclined to those things that not only embellish
the world, but also confer vast benefit and advantage on the whole race of men! And what works
can or should Princes and great persons undertake more readily than noble and magnificent buildings
and edifices, both on account of the many kinds of men that are employed upon them in the making,
and because, when made, they endure almost to eternity? For of all the costly enterprises that
the ancient Romans executed at the time when they were at the supreme height of their greatness,
what else is there left to us save those remains of buildings, the everlasting glory of the
Roman name, which we revere as sacred things and strive to imitate as the sole patterns of
the highest beauty? And how much these considerations occupied the minds of certain Princes
who lived in the time of the Florentine architect, Antonio da San Gallo, will now be seen clearly
in the Life of him that we are about to write.

Antonio, then, was the son of Bartolommeo Picconi of Mugello, a maker of casks; and after having
learned the joiner's craft in his boyhood, hearing that his uncle, Giuliano da San Gallo, was
working at Rome in company with his brother Antonio, he set out from Florence for that city.
And there, having devoted himself to the matters of the art of architecture with the greatest
possible zeal, and pursuing that art, he gave promise of those achievements that we see in
such abundance throughout all Italy, in the vast number of works executed by him at a more
mature age. Now it happened that Giuliano was forced by the torment that he suffered from the
stone to return to Florence; and Antonio, having become known to the architect Bramante of
Castel Durante, began to give assistance to that master, who, being old and crippled in the
hands by palsy, was not able to work as before in the preparation of his designs. And these
Antonio executed with such accuracy and precision that Bramante, finding that they were correct
and true in all their measurements, was constrained to leave to him the charge of a great number
of works that he had on his hands, only giving him the order that he desired and all the inventions
and compositions that were to be used in each work. In these he found himself served by Antonio
with so much judgment, diligence, and expedition, that in the year 1512 he gave him the charge
of the corridor that was to lead to the ditches of the Castello di S. Angelo; for which he
began to receive a salary of ten crowns a month; but the death of Julius II then took place,
and the work was left unfinished. However, the circumstance that Antonio had already acquired
a name as a person of ability in architecture, and one who had a very good manner in matters
of building, was the reason that Alessandro, who was first Cardinal Farnese, and afterwards
Pope Paul III, conceived the idea of commissioning him to restore the old palace in the Campo
di Fiore, in which he lived with his family; and for that work Antonio, desiring to grow in
reputation, made several designs in different manners. Among which, one that was arranged with
two apartments was that which pleased his very reverend Highness, who, having two sons, Signor
Pier Luigi and Signor Ranuccio, thought that he would leave them well accommodated by such
a building. And, a beginning having been made with that work, a certain portion was constructed
regularly every year.

At this time a church dedicated to S. Maria di Loreto was being built at the Macello de' Corbi,
near the Column of Trajan, in Rome, and it was brought to perfection by Antonio, with decorations
of great beauty. After this, Messer Marchionne Baldassini caused a palace to be erected from
the model and under the direction of Antonio, near S. Agostino, which is arranged in such a
manner that, small though it may be, it is held to be, as indeed it is, the finest and most
convenient dwelling in Rome; and in it the staircases, the court, the loggie, the doors, and
the chimney-pieces, are all executed with consummate grace. With which Messer Marchionne being
very well satisfied, he determined that Perino del Vaga, the Florentine painter, should decorate
one of the halls in colour, with scenes and other figures, as will be related in his Life;
which decorations have given it infinite grace and beauty. And near the Torre di Nona Antonio
directed and finished the building of the house of the Centelli, which is small, but very convenient.

No long time passed before he went to Gradoli, a place in the dominions of the very reverend
Cardinal Farnese, where he caused a most beautiful and commodious palace to be erected for
that Cardinal. On that journey he did a work of great utility in restoring the fortress of
Capo di Monte, which he surrounded with low and well-shaped walls; and at the same time he
made the design of the fortress of Caprarola. And the very reverend Monsignor Farnese, finding
himself served by Antonio in all these works in a manner so satisfactory, was constrained to
wish him well, and, coming to love him more and more, he showed him favour in his every enterprise
whenever he was able. After this, Cardinal Alborense, wishing to leave a memorial of himself
in the church of his nation, caused a chapel of marble, with a tomb for himself, to be erected
and brought to completion by Antonio in S. Jacopo degli Spagnuoli; which chapel, as has been
related, was all painted in the spaces between the pilasters by Pellegrino da Modena, and on
the altar stood a most beautiful S. James of marble executed by Jacopo Sansovino. This is a
work of architecture that is held to be truly worthy of the highest praise, since the marble
ceiling is divided very beautifully into octagonal compartments. Nor was it long before M.
Bartolommeo Ferratino, for his own convenience and for the benefit of his friends, and also
in order to leave an honourable and enduring memorial of himself, commissioned Antonio to build
a palace on the Piazza d' Amelia, which is a beautiful and most imposing work; whereby Antonio
acquired no little fame and profit. During this time Antonio di Monte, Cardinal of Santa Prassedia,
was in Rome, and he desired that the same architect should build for him the palace that he
afterwards occupied, looking out upon the Agone, where there is the statue of Maestro Pasquino;
and in the centre, which looks over the Piazza, he wished to erect a tower. This was planned
and brought to completion for him by Antonio with a most beautiful composition of pilasters
and windows from the first floor to the third--a good and graceful design; and it was adorned
both within and without by Francesco dell' Indaco with figures and scenes in terretta. And
Antonio having meanwhile become the devoted servant of the Cardinal of Arimini, that lord caused
him to erect a palace at Tolentino in the March, for which, in addition to the rewards that
Antonio received, the Cardinal ever afterwards held himself indebted to him.

While these matters were in progress, and the fame of Antonio was growing and spreading abroad,
it happened that old age and various infirmities made Bramante a citizen of the other world;
at which three architects were appointed straightway by Pope Leo for the building of S. Pietro--Raffaello
da Urbino, Giuliano da San Gallo, the uncle of Antonio, and Fra Giocondo of Verona. But no
long time passed before Fra Giocondo departed from Rome, and Giuliano, being old, received
leave to return to Florence. Whereupon Antonio, who was in the service of the very reverend
Cardinal Farnese, besought him very straitly that he should make supplication to Pope Leo,
to the end that he might grant the place of his uncle Giuliano to him, which proved to be a
thing very easy to obtain, first because of the abilities of Antonio, which were worthy of
that place, and then by reason of the cordial relations between the Pope and the very reverend
Cardinal Farnese. And thus, in company with Raffaello da Urbino, he continued that building,
but coldly enough.

The Pope then went to Cività Vecchia, in order to fortify it, and in his company were many
lords; among others, Giovan Paolo Baglioni and Signor Vitello, and such persons of ability
as Pietro Navarra and Antonio Marchissi, the architect for fortifications at that time, who
had come from Naples at the command of the Pope. Discussions arising as to the fortification
of that place, many and various were the opinions about this, one man making one design, and
another a different one; but among so many, Antonio displayed before them a plan which was
approved by the Pope and by those lords and architects as superior to all the others in strength
and beauty and in the handsome and useful character of its arrangements; wherefore Antonio
came into very great credit with the Court. After this, the genius of Antonio repaired a great
mischief brought about in the following manner: Raffaello da Urbino, in executing the Papal
Loggie and the apartments that are over the foundations, had left many empty spaces in the
masonry in order to oblige some friends, to the serious damage of the whole building, by reason
of the great weight that had to be supported above them; and the edifice was already beginning
to show signs of falling, on account of the weight being too great for the walls. And it would
certainly have fallen down but for the genius of Antonio, who filled up those little chambers
with the aid of props and beams, and refounded the whole fabric, thus making it as firm and
solid as it had ever been in the beginning.

Meanwhile the Florentine colony had begun their church in the Strada Giulia, behind the Banchi,
from the design of Jacopo Sansovino. But they had chosen a site that extended too far into
the river, so that, compelled by necessity, they spent twelve thousand crowns on foundations
in the water, which were executed in a very secure and beautiful manner by Antonio, who found
the way after Jacopo had failed to discover it; and several braccia of the edifice were built
over the water. Antonio made a model so excellent, that, if the work had been carried to completion,
it would have been something stupendous. Nevertheless, it was a great error, giving proof of
little judgment, on the part of those who were at that time the heads of that colony in Rome,
for they should never have allowed the architects to found so large a church in so terrible
a river, for the sake of gaining twenty braccia of length, and to throw away so many thousands
of crowns on foundations, only to be compelled to contend with that river for ever; particularly
because, by bringing that church forward and giving it another form, they might have built
it on solid ground, and, what is more, might have carried the whole to completion with almost
the same expense. And if they trusted in the riches of the merchants of that colony, it was
seen afterwards how fallacious such a hope was, for in all the years that the pontificate was
held by Leo and Clement of the Medici family, by Julius III, and by Marcellus, who all came
from Florentine territory, although the last-named lived but a short time, and for all the
greatness of so many Cardinals and the riches of so many merchants, it remained, as it still
does, in the same condition in which it was left by our San Gallo. It is clear, therefore,
that architects and those who cause buildings to be erected should look well to the end and
to every matter, before setting their hands to works of importance.

But to return to Antonio: the fortress of Monte Fiascone had been formerly built by Pope Urban,
and he restored it at the commission of the Pope, who took him to those parts one summer in
his train. And at the request of Cardinal Farnese he built two little temples on the island
of Visentina in the Lake of Bolsena, one of which was constructed as an octagon without and
round within, and the other was square on the outer side and octagonal on the inner, with four
niches in the walls at the corners, one to each; which two little temples, executed in so beautiful
a manner, bore testimony to the skill with which Antonio was able to give variety to the details
of architecture. While these temples were building, Antonio returned to Rome, where he made
a beginning with the Palace of the Bishop of Cervia, which was afterwards left unfinished,
on the Canto di S. Lucia, where the new Mint stands. He built the Church of S. Maria di Monferrato,
which is held to be very beautiful, near the Corte Savella, and likewise the house of one Marrano,
which is behind the Cibo Palace, near the houses of the Massimi.

Meanwhile Leo died, and with him all the fine and noble arts, which had been restored to life
by him and by his predecessor, Julius II; and his successor was Adrian VI, in whose pontificate
all arts and talents were so crushed down, that, if the government of the Apostolic Seat had
remained long in his hands, that fate would have come upon Rome under his rule which fell upon
her on another occasion, when all the statues saved from the destruction of the Goths, both
the good and the bad, were condemned to be burned. Adrian, perhaps in imitation of the Pontiffs
of those former times, had already begun to speak of intending to throw to the ground the Chapel
of the divine Michelagnolo, saying that it was a bagnio of nudes; and he despised all good
pictures and statues, calling them vanities of the world, and shameful and abominable things,
which circumstance was the reason that not only Antonio, but all the other beautiful intellects
were kept idle, insomuch that, not to mention other works, scarcely anything was done in the
time of that Pontiff on the building of S. Pietro, to which at least he should have been friendly,
since he wished to prove himself so much the enemy of worldly things.

For that reason, therefore, attending under that Pontiff to works of no great importance, Antonio
restored the aisles of the Church of S. Jacopo degli Spagnuoli, and furnished the façade with
most beautiful windows. He also caused a tabernacle of travertine to be constructed for the
Imagine di Ponte, which, although small, is yet very graceful; and in it Perino del Vaga afterwards
executed a beautiful little work in fresco.

The poor arts had already come to an evil pass through the life of Adrian, when Heaven, moved
to pity for them, resolved by the death of one to give new life to thousands; wherefore it
removed him from the world and caused him to surrender his place to one who would fill that
position more worthily and would govern the affairs of the world in a different spirit. And
thus a new Pope was elected in Clement VII, who, being a man of generous mind, and desiring
to follow in the steps of Leo and of the other members of his illustrious family who had preceded
him, bethought himself that, even as he had created beautiful memorials of himself as Cardinal,
so as Pope he should surpass all others in restoring and adorning buildings. That election,
then, brought consolation to many men of talent, and infused a potent and heaven-sent breath
of life in those ingenious but timid spirits who had sunk into abasement; and they, thus revived,
afterwards executed the beautiful works that we see at the present day. And first, having been
set to work at the commission of His Holiness, Antonio straightway reconstructed a court in
front of the Loggie, which had been painted previously under the direction of Raffaello, in
the Palace; which court was a vast improvement in beauty and convenience, for it was formerly
necessary to pass through certain narrow and tortuous ways, and Antonio, widening these and
giving them better form, made them spacious and beautiful. But this part is not now in the
condition in which Antonio left it, for Pope Julius III took away the columns of granite that
were there, in order to adorn his villa with them, and altered everything. Antonio also executed
the façade of the old Mint of Rome, a work of great beauty and grace, in the Banchi, making
a rounded corner, which is held to be a difficult and even miraculous thing; and in that work
he placed the arms of the Pope. And he refounded the unfinished part of the Papal Loggie, which
had remained incomplete at the death of Pope Leo, and had not been continued, or even touched,
through the negligence of Adrian. And thus, at the desire of Clement, they were carried to
their final completion.

His Holiness then resolving to fortify Parma and Piacenza, after many designs and models had
been made by various craftsmen, Antonio was sent to those places, and with him Giuliano Leno,
the supervisor of those fortifications. When they had arrived there, Antonio having with him
his pupil L'Abacco, Pier Francesco da Viterbo, a very able engineer, and the architect Michele
San Michele of Verona, all of them together carried the designs of those fortifications into
execution. Which done, the others remaining, Antonio returned to Rome, where Pope Clement,
since the Palace was poorly supplied in the matter of apartments, ordained that Antonio should
begin those in which the public consistories are held, above the Ferraria, which were executed
in such a manner, that the Pontiff was well satisfied with them, and caused other apartments
to be constructed above them for the Chamberlains of His Holiness. Over the ceilings of those
apartments, likewise, Antonio made others which were very commodious--a work which was most
dangerous, because it necessitated so much refounding. In this kind of work Antonio was in
truth very able, seeing that his buildings never showed a crack; nor was there ever among the
moderns any architect more cautious or more skilful in joining walls.

