Seven years later, in 1903, the same Pope called a session of the commission to consider the
testimony and reports relative to the miracles which had taken place at the tomb of the departed.
This session, however, was not held, for on the day which had been appointed the venerable
pope lay at the point of death and soon after, viz., on July 20th, of that year, the Catholic
world had to mourn the passing away of its spiritual head.

The happy distinction, however, of being able to glorify the humble country curate had been
reserved by God for one who himself had been formerly a plain country curate. On Aug. 4th,
1903, at the very hour, when at Ars they were celebrating a solemn High Mass on the forty-fourth
anniversary of the death of John Baptist Vianney, another solemn ceremony was taking place
at Rome, viz., the election of the former village cure of Salzano, later Cardinal Sarto, patriarch
of Venice, to the Papacy, who chose for himself the title of Pius X.

As early as Jan. 26th, 1904, the new supreme pontiff presided at that session of the cardinals
over which his illustrious predecessor had intended to preside. Two cases in particular were
presented for examination. One was a question of the sudden cure of the youthful Adelaide Joly,
and the other, that of little Leo Roussat. The latter, after a violent attack of epilepsy,
in the year 1862, had to be carried to the grave of the late cure. One of his arms hung crippled
at his side; his power of speech was gone, and his breathing so difficult that he was unable
to retain the saliva in his mouth. After a short time spent in prayer at the grave of the cure
he was removed. The hand formerly crippled was now able to give alms to the poor and the boy
recovered the use of his limbs and walked about. At the conclusion of the novena he was able
to speak without further trouble.

In Feb., 1861, the girl Adelaide, owing to a malignant swelling of the arm, had been given
up as incurable by the doctors in the Lyons hospital. Then one of her relatives who possessed
a piece of linen, which had belonged to the cure of Ars, laid it upon the affected arm. In
prayer they besought the intercession of the venerable servant of God to obtain relief for
the suffering girl. To the astonishment of the doctors the swelling was suddenly reduced in
a few hours and the arm was restored to its normal condition.

After the counsel of cardinals had pronounced a favorable opinion in respect to the miraculous
nature of these cures, a papal decree, dated Feb. 21st, 1904, declared these facts sufficiently
established to justify the beatification of the venerable man.

The Holy Father himself gave unrestrained expression to the joy which he felt when he was enabled
to admit into the ranks of the blessed one who, according to his own words, had been for many
years a shining example to him.

LITANY AND PRAYER IN HONOR OF Blessed John B. Marie Vianney. CURE OF ARS.

(FOR PRIVATE DEVOTION.)

Lord, have mercy on us. Christ, have mercy on us. Lord, have mercy on us. Christ, hear us.
Christ, graciously hear us. God the Father of Heaven, have mercy on us. God the Son, Redeemer
of the world, have mercy on us. God the Holy Ghost, have mercy on us. Holy Trinity, one God,
have mercy on us. Holy Mary, pray for us. Blessed John Marie, pray for us. B. J. M., endowed
with grace from thine infancy, pray for us. B. J. M., model of filial piety, pray for us. B.
J. M., devoted servant of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, pray for us. B. J. M., spotless lily
of purity, pray for us. B. J. M., faithful imitator of the sufferings of Christ, pray for us.
B. J. M., abyss of humility, pray for us. B. J. M., seraphim in prayer, pray for us. B. J.
M., faithful adorer of the Most Blessed Sacrament, pray for us. B. J. M., ardent lover of holy
poverty, pray for us. B. J. M., tender friend of the poor, pray for us. B. J. M., penetrated
with the fear of God's judgment, pray for us. B. J. M., fortified by Divine visions, pray for
us. B. J. M., who wast tormented by the evil spirit, pray for us. B. J. M., perfect model of
sacerdotal virtue, pray for us. B, J. M., firm and prudent pastor, pray for us. B. J. M., inflamed
by zeal, pray for us. B. J. M., faithful attendant on the sick, pray for us. B. J. M., indefatigable
catechist, pray for us. B. J. M., who didst preach in words of fire, pray for us. B. J. M.,
wise director of souls, pray for us. B. J. M., specially gifted with the spirit of counsel,
pray for us. B. J. M., enlightened by light from Heaven, pray for us. B. J. M., formidable
to Satan, pray for us. B. J. M., compassionate with every misery, pray for us. B. J. M., providence
of the orphans, pray for us. B. J. M., favored with the gift of miracles, pray for us. B. J.
M., who didst reconcile so many sinners with God, pray for us. B. J. M., who didst confirm
so many of the just in the way of virtue, pray for us. B. J. M., who didst taste the sweetness
of death, pray for us. B. J. M., who dost now rejoice in the glory of Heaven, pray for us.
B. J. M., helpful to all those who invoke thee, pray for us. B. J. M., patron of the clergy,
pray for us. Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world, Spare us, O Lord. Christ,
hear us. Christ, graciously hear us. V. Pray for us, Blessed John Marie, R. That we may be
made worthy of the promises of Christ.

LET US PRAY.

Almighty and merciful God, who didst make the Blessed John Marie admirable in his pastoral
zeal and in his constant love of penance, grant us the grace, we implore Thee, to win for Christ,
by his example and intercession, the souls of our brethren, and to attain with them everlasting
glory.--O, Bl. John Marie, incomparable laborer in the field confided to thee, obtain for the
Church the realization of Jesus' desire. The harvest is abundant, but the laborers are few.
Pray to the Master of the harvest to send faithful laborers into His vineyard. O, Bl. John
Marie! Intercede for the clergy. May thy patronage, and thy prayer multiply the real vocations
to the priesthood. May the Holy Ghost grant thee emulators; may He give us Saints! Through
Christ, our Lord. Amen.

NOVENA IN HONOR OF BLESSED JOHN BAPTIST VIANNEY.

FIRST DAY.--FAITH.

On this first day of the novena we shall consider the faith of this holy man. A lively faith
is necessary in order to please God. We believe every word which God has spoken by His Holy
Church. We must practise this faith also in works. Faith without works is dead. Without works
it would be only an empty assertion that we believe. In a firm unflinching faith Blessed Vianney
lived and died and became a saint.

PRAYER FOR FAITH.

Pour into my soul, O God, through the intercession of the Blessed Vianney, pastor of Ars, a
deep lively heartfelt faith! That faith will be my salvation, as it was the salvation of all
the saints who are now in Heaven. Amen.

[Then is said the Litany to the Blessed Vianney and the prayer. In these days of frequent Communion,
it were well if Holy Communion could be received at the beginning of the novena and also at
the end. Better still, if it could be received every day during the novena.]

SECOND DAY.--CHRISTIAN HOPE.

Consider the blessings of Christian hope. It is a trust in God, in His Providence, a lively,
filial, trustful submission to the will of God, knowing that God will ordain things to His
greater glory and to our spiritual benefit. What consolation is found in a Christian hope!
How sweet it is! We cannot be disappointed if we trust in God, Who cannot deceive. Hope is
our spiritual life and the principle of our active perseverance in it. How dreary is the world
without hope! How glorious life becomes with hope! God puts hope into our hearts.

PRAYER FOR HOPE.

Give me, O Lord, that hope which raised the spirit of Blessed Vianney, that hope which gave
him patience in long suffering. He did all with the hope that Thy glory would be enhanced.
Infuse into my heart the desire to do good work for Thy sake.

[Here say the litany and prayer to the Blessed Vianney.]

THIRD DAY.--THE LOVE OF GOD.

On the third day we shall consider the love of God. We must love God above all things, live
in love, continue in love unto the end. Love the Son of God, Jesus Christ, love the Church,
the Spouse of our Lord. The love of God will bring us to Heaven. God will give us everything
if we love Him. It is so reasonable to love God; in fact, man is a fool if he does not love
God. It is our religion, our happiness and our supreme blessing. It is our very Heaven, here
upon earth. The happiness of Heaven, commenced in this world even imperfectly, will be continued
for all eternity, if we persevere to the end.

PRAYER FOR THE LOVE OF GOD.

O my God, I love Thee with my whole heart, and above all things because Thou, O God, art the
Sovereign Good and for Thine own infinite perfections art most worthy of all love.

[Litany and prayer to the Blessed Vianney.]

FOURTH DAY.--THE LOVE OF OUR NEIGHBOR.

This day will be given to the consideration of the love which we should have for our neighbor.
Let us impress the love of our neighbor deeply on our mind. It is so very important. It is
second only to the love of God. You cannot do anything pleasing to God unless you do it out
of a motive for the love of God or for our neighbor. Those have been the greatest human beings
who loved God above all things and their neighbor as themselves.

PRAYER TO OBTAIN THE LOVE OF OUR NEIGHBOR.

My dear Jesus, lover of all mankind, teach me to love my neighbor as Thou didst love even Thine
enemies. Blessed Vianney was Thy faithful follower in the practice of this virtue. He loved
the souls of men. Let me also imbibe, from a devotion to him, the same love for souls.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

FIFTH DAY.--HUMILITY.

The great virtue of our blessed saint was humility. Let us try to imitate and understand this
virtue. We will find some good souls who never think much of themselves. They want to be always
in the background. They do not want to be considered at all. Nevertheless they are always doing
good. These are precious in the sight of God.

PRAYER FOR HUMILITY.

O sweet and humble Jesus, give me also the precious virtue of humility, which Thou didst give
so abundantly to Thy servant Vianney, so that I also may be pleasing in Thy sight and pleasing
before man. No virtue is so attractive as humility. Thou, O Lord, exaltest the humble. To be
great in Thy sight and approved by Thee is the object of my desire.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

SIXTH DAY.--LOVE OF POVERTY.

Love of poverty is an active sincere love. The lack of possessions, the desire not to have
any, giving to the poor what we have, or what we do not need, is poverty. Practice self-denial.
Save to give to the poor, to build hospitals, orphan asylums, churches. Have Masses said for
the poor suffering souls in Purgatory.

PRAYER FOR POVERTY.

Thou hast said, O Lord, "Blessed is he who understands the poor." Let me have that knowledge.
It is the practical way to show my love for my neighbor in distress. Let me also, like Thyself,
be a good Samaritan, doing good and relieving want. Not only should I be poor in spirit, but
I must also love to be poor in fact, for the poor are the brethren of Christ.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

SEVENTH DAY.--MORTIFICATION.

