The superstitions of sailors are not few, as those assert who are conversant in maritime affairs.
Amongst others, is the custom, pretty well known, of whistling for a wind. A gentleman told
me, that, on his first voyage, being then very young, and ignorant of sea usages, he was in
the habit of walking the deck a great deal, "and whistling as he went," perhaps "for want of
thought"--perhaps for lack of something better to do. Shortly, he fancied that the captain
of the vessel seemed not a little annoyed whenever this took place, although he kept a respectful
silence upon the subject. At length Mr. ---- resolved to speak to him himself: and, accordingly,
one day, when it blew a pretty brisk gale, said, "I observe, captain, that you appear particularly
uneasy whenever I whistle."--"To say the truth, sir, I am just now," replied he. "On a fair,
still day, whistle as much as you please; but, when there is a wind like this, we don't like
to have any more called."--New London Literary Gaz.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF

NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PHILOSOPHICAL KITCHEN.

A romantic and ludicrous novel has just appeared, entitled "The Mummy, or Tale of the Twenty-second
Century," exhibiting some of the probable results of "the march of intellect;" and of the pungency
of its satire the following is a fair specimen, describing a kitchen in the twenty-second century:--

When Dr. Entwerfen left the breakfast-room of Lord Gustavus, which he did not do till a considerable
time after the rest of the party had quitted it, he was so absorbed in meditation, that he
did not know exactly which way he was going; and, happening unfortunately to turn to the right
when he should have gone to the left, to his infinite surprise he found himself in the kitchen
instead of his own study. Absent as the doctor was, however, his attention was soon roused
by the scene before him. Being, like many of his learned brotherhood, somewhat of a gourmand,
his indignation was violently excited by finding the cook comfortably asleep on a sofa on one
side of the room, whilst the meat intended for dinner, a meal it was then the fashion to take
about noon, was as comfortably resting itself from its toils on the other. The chemical substitute
for fire, which ought to have cooked it, having gone out, and the cook's nap precluding all
reasonable expectation of its re-illumination, the doctor's wrath was kindled, though the fire
was not, and in a violent rage he seized the gentle Celestina's shoulder, and and shook her
till she woke. "Where am I?" exclaimed she, opening her eyes. "Any where but where you ought
to be," cried the doctor, in a fury. "Look, hussy! look at that fine joint of meat, lying quite
cold and sodden in its own steam." "Dear me!" returned Celestina, yawning, "I am really quite
unfortunate to-day! An unlucky accident has already occurred to a leg of mutton which was to
have formed part of to-day's aliments, and now this piece of beef is also destroyed. I am afraid
there will be nothing for dinner but some mucilaginous saccharine vegetables, and they, most
probably, will be boiled to a viscous consistency." "And what excuse can you offer for all
this?" exclaimed the doctor, his voice trembling with passion. "It was unavoidable;" replied
Celestina, coolly; "whilst I was copying a cast from the Apollo Belvidere this morning, having
unguardedly applied too much caloric to the vessel containing the leg of mutton, the aqueous
fluid in which it was immersed evaporated, and the viand became completely calcinated. Whilst
the other affair--" "Hush, hush!" interrupted the doctor; "I cannot bear to hear you mention
it. Oh, surely Job himself never suffered such a trial of his patience! In fact, his troubles
were scarcely worth mentioning, for he was never cursed with learned servants!" Saying this,
the doctor retired, lamenting his hard fate in not having been born in those halcyon days when
cooks drew nothing but their poultry; whilst the gentle Celestina's breast panted with indignation
at his complaint. An opportunity soon offered for revenge; and seeing the doctor's steam valet
ready to be carried to its master's chamber, she treacherously applied a double portion of
caloric; in consequence of which, the machine burst whilst in the act of brushing the doctor's
coat collar, and by discharging the whole of the scalding water contained in its cauldron upon
him, reduced him to a melancholy state.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE DEATH OF A FRIEND.

The Amulet for 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

St. Martin's, near Canterbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRST CHRISTIAN CHURCH ERECTED IN ENGLAND.

(For the Mirror.)

The venerable and interesting church of St. Martin is situated on the side of a hill, (named
from it,) at the distance of little more than a quarter of a mile from the dilapidated walls
of Canterbury. It is generally believed to have been erected by the Christian soldiers in the
Roman army, about the time of king Lucius, A.D. 182, and hence is justly esteemed as the first
Christian church erected in Britain, and indeed nothing appears to contradict this assertion;
for the Britons, before the arrival of the Romans, were, as is well known, in a state of barbarism
and idolatry, and their habitations huts of clay and turf; and as to its being built after
their departure, I do not think it at all likely, for England was then ravaged and overrun
by the warlike clans of its mountain neighbours, and consequently its inhabitants had not time
or inclination to erect buildings, when their lives and property were daily in danger. Their
successors, the early Saxons, too, I think, cannot claim any pretensions to St. Martin, they
being heathens, and unacquainted with the Christian religion. Nor could they, entirely ignorant
of Roman materials, have built an edifice completely composed with them.

Here then was a Christian church and a Christian congregation established in Britain full 415
years before Augustin's arrival; but as St. Martin, bishop of Tours, died in the year 395,
this church could not have been erected in his honour; but it might afterwards have been dedicated
to him by Luidhard, chaplain to Bertha, wife of Ethelbert, the Kentish king; and this is the
more likely, as Luidhard himself was a French bishop.

In conclusion, it may not be unnecessary to state, that though the papists consider Augustin
as the apostle of the English, they do not acknowledge him as their first instructor in Christianity;
for, as it appears in their service for May 26, Lucius, a British king, wrote to St. Eleutherius,
(who was elected priest A.D. 177,) desiring that he might be numbered among the Christians.
By whom or by what means this conversion was effected does not appear; but, however, in reply
to it, Eleutherius sent the monks Damian and Fryatius into Britain, from whom the king and
many of his subjects received the gospel.

SAGITTARIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICTURE OF LIBERTY.

(For the Mirror.)

  O, Liberty! thou goddess, heav'nly bright!
  Profuse of bliss, and pregnant with delight,
  External pleasures in thy presence reign.

  ADDISON. Rev. vol. xlii. p. 332.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST AND LAST.

(From the Italian.)

  One single truth before he died
  Poor Dick could only boast;
  "Alas, I die!" he faintly cried,
  And then--gave up the ghost!

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH GAMING HOUSES.

(For the Mirror.)

  Dicing-houses, where cheaters meet, and cozen young men out of
  their money.

  Lord Herbert.

  Begin with a guinea, and end with a mortgage.

  Cumberland.

      What more than madness reigns,
  When one short sitting many hundreds drains,
  When not enough is left him to supply
  Board wages, or a footman's livery.

  Dryden's Juvenal.

  Gaming finds a man a cully, and leaves him a knave.

  Tom Brown.

The last "nine days' wonder" is the excess to which gaming is carried among the higher circles
of this country; but I much doubt whether the present expositions of such enormity in a neighbouring
nation will work the desired effect on Englishmen.

Popular prejudices are obstinate points to combat; but every one who has had opportunities
for observation, must allow, that in their taste for gaming, the French and English character
are widely different. In France, every one plays at cards, or dominoes, and at all hours in
the day, in every cafè, wine-shop, and road-side inn throughout the country. I remember to
have frequently seen, in the wine-shops at Paris, carters in blue smock-frocks playing at ecartè
and dominoes over a bottle of vin ordinaire at eleven o'clock in the morning, particularly
in the neighbourhood of the markets. In England such amusements would be illegal, and the victualler
who allowed them in his house would probably be deprived of his license.

In France every man plays at billiards--nay, every village has its billiard tables, one of
which is almost as frequent an article of furniture in private houses, as piano-fortes are
in England; and the sign of two maces crossed, and the inscriptions "Cafè et Billards" are
as common over the wine-houses in the provinces, as chequers formerly were in our own country
towns. I remember meeting with a curious adventure during my last residence in Paris. One morning,
while leisurely walking in Rue Montmartre, I was accosted in French, by a respectably dressed
man, apparently about fifty, who inquired of me the situation of ---- street, (for at this
moment I do not recollect the name). I replied that, being a foreigner, I could not afford
him the required information, at the same time referring him to the next shop. He did not follow
my suggestion, but almost at the very instant my eye caught the name of the street for which
he had just inquired. The stranger then told me that being on a visit to the capital, he was
anxious to see the interior of the palace of the Tuilleries, and was proceeding to a friend
resident in the above street, who had promised to procure him admission to the royal residence,
notwithstanding the king was then in Paris. I congratulated him on his success, having been,
a few days previous, disappointed in the same object, when he offered also to procure admission
for myself and one or two of my friends. We accordingly entered a second rate cafè, when, I
made up to the garçon and demanded of him whether orders for viewing the Tuilleries were to
be obtained there: he made no reply, but my friend of the street, who had by this time partly
ascended a staircase at the extremity of the room, beckoned, and anxiously besought me to accompany
him. I did so, notwithstanding I was aware that Paris, as well as London, had its "frauds."
We entered a large room, the first impression of which, on some minds, would have been that
of terror. In the centre stood a handsome billiard-table, over which were two dirty lamps with
reflectors; the walls were papered in tawdry French taste, the ceiling black with smoke, and
the whole room but indifferently lighted with a disproportionate and dusty window: the door,
too, seemed planned for security, having a large lock and two bolts inside, but exhibited marks
of recent repair from violent fracture. In short, there was a lurking suspicion about the place,
which was not lessened by my companion meeting with a partner. From their conversation I learned
they were both foreigners, and were waiting for a friend to bring the orders to view the palace,
so that all the story was as yet in keeping, and I was introduced as a suitor for the same
favour. My fellows "in waiting" showed much impatience, complained of cold, and politely asked
me to take a glass of liqueur with them, at the same time taking up the mace and beginning
to amuse themselves at the billiard-table. I looked on; they asked me to join them; I declined,
and professed ignorance of the game; but their importunities became more pressing, and at last
troublesome. Not a word further was said of the palace admission. I now judged it time to take
my leave, and advancing towards the door for that purpose, I perceived my companions moved
also: I profited by the hint, and seizing the handle of the door, thanked them for their civility,
assured them I could wait no longer, but would call in half-an-hour--leaped down the stairs,
and did not stop till I reached Rue Montmartre. I afterwards learned this was a common street
trick in Paris to decoy strangers to the billiard-table, and had I taken the mace in hand,
it would most probably have been at the expense of a good dinner for my companions, as a smart
for my credulity.

A few evenings subsequent to this common-place incident, I strolled into a house of play in
the palais royal, the situation having been previously pointed out to me by a friend.[1] The
entrance was through a narrow passage by a silversmith's shop, on the ground floor, at the
end of which a strong light shone through the figures denoting the number of the house, largely
cut in tin; alas! thought I, a fatal number to many thousands. On the principal landing, being
that above the entre-sol story, I gently tapped at a handsome door, which was almost as gently
opened. My friend (for I was not alone,) having deposited his hat and stick with the garçon,
was allowed to pass, but I was stopped for want of--whiskers; till assuring him that I was
older than he took me to be, and an Englishman--I was also permitted to pass. We first entered
a small room, in which was a roulette-table surrounded by players, and well staked: this communicated
by folding-doors with a spacious saloon with a double table for Trente-et-un, or Rouge et Noir,
round which were seated the players, behind whom stood a few lookers-on, and still fewer young
men, whose stakes were "few and far between,"--probably those of cautious adventurers, or novices
pecking at the first-fruits of play. Nothing is better described in books than the folly of
gaming, and the sufferings of its victims; but, like Virgil, in his picture of Heaven, they
fall short in describing their extasies; a failing on the right side, or perhaps purposely
made, for the happiness of mankind. The seated visitors here seemed to be quite at home, some
picking up their Napoleons and five franc pieces, and others recording the issues of the game,
and illustrating the doctrine of chances by pricking holes in cards. A death-like stillness
prevailed, interrupted only by the monotonous result of the deal of the cards, and the bewitching,
though not frequent chink of gold and silver. The success of the winners was as silent as the
disappointment of the losers; neither joy nor grief displaying itself otherwise than in an
almost unvaried tristesse on the countenances of the seated players--in some measure produced
by ill health and intense anxiety so as to conceal better feelings. I took my station at one
end of the table beside a middle-aged Frenchman, and by way of forfeit-money (for mere lookers
on are not very acceptable company) threw a few five-franc pieces, one by one, on the same
colour with his stakes, each of which varied from one to ten Napoleons. After twelve chances
I had lost about thirty francs, but the Frenchman continued playing, and within twenty minutes
rose a winner of three hundred Napoleons, which the banker changing for paper, he coolly put
into his waistcoat pocket, and walked off. A slight emotion was visible around the table, but
there was no other expression. I had now time to look around me, and enjoy a little reflection
for my foolish risk. It would be difficult to say whether more anxiety was displayed among
the sitters, or the company at their backs. The attractive foci of all eyes were the everlasting
varieties of red and black, though not accompanied by the usual grotesque mob of kings, queens,
and knaves, the latter being probably excluded by the jealousy of their living fraternity around
the table. A strong and steady light spread over the faces of all present, and in some few
showed the quiverings and workings of the most intense passion; but the same stare or tip-toe
of hope and fear pervaded the whole assemblage. Some counted their money with apparent caution,
and seemed to divide their winnings from their store with affected precision, probably with
an idea of the winnings being unfit company for other coin; whilst others listlessly played
with their cash, or in a vulgar phrase, handled it like dirt, the distinguishing feature of
the cold and calculating gamester, to whom money is an object of secondary concern compared
with that of play. In the standing groupe I remember to have noticed (from his personal resemblance
to a friend) a young Englishman, whom I afterwards learned had been a constant visiter to that
table during the previous three months, and had then won about two hundred Napoleons. He had
just married an interesting woman, about his own age, twenty-two, and had professedly taken
up his degree in the practice of play, as an elegant and honourable mode of subsistence. A
few weeks after I met him and his wife, on the Italian Boulevards; in dress he was woefully
changed, and in his countenance a ghastly stare, sunken eye, and emaciated cheeks, bespoke
some strong reverse of fortune: his wife too seemed dimmed by sorrow, and suffering might be
traced in every lineament of her features, notwithstanding the artifice of dress was tastefully
displayed about her person. Alas! thought I, how often is the charm of wedded life snapped
asunder by man--the proud lord of the creation, and how often by his strong hold on her affections,
does he sink lovely woman still fondly clinging to his disgrace, in the abyss of crime and guilt.

But as such incidents must be common to many of your readers who have visited the French metropolis,
I shall desist from further recital. The following outline of those receptacles of vice, French
Gaming Houses, from facts which I collected on the spot, aided by authenticated resources,
may not prove uninteresting. The gamesters might therefore be said to resemble watermen, looking
one way and rowing another. Their number soon amounted to twelve, and women were permitted
to resort to them two days in the week. Besides the licensed establishments, several illegal
ones were tolerated. The following items of twenty tables distributed about Paris (the established
stake varying from a Napoleon to a sous) are from the most authentic documents:--

  Current expenses                            1,551,480 Francs.
  Bail to Government                   6,000,000 Francs.
  Bonus for the bail                            166,666 Francs.
  Making together 7,716,146 Francs, or about   £321,589 English.
  Gain of the tables, per annum               9,600,000 Francs.
  Expenses as above                           7,718,146 Francs.
  Leaving a clear profit of                   1,881,854 Francs,

or about £78,244 English! And yet, in spite of this unanswerable logic of figures and facts,
there are every day fresh victims who are infatuated enough to believe that it is possible
to counterbalance the advantages which the bank possesses, by a judicious management of the
power the player has of altering his stake! The revenue formerly paid to the government for
licenses, has recently been transferred to the city of Paris.

In England, the outcry against gaming is loud, and deservedly so; and the extent to which it
is stated to be curried in the higher circles is rather underrated than exaggerated; but the
severity of our laws on this crime, and recent visitations of its rigour, confine it to the
saloons of wealthy vice. With us it is not a national vice, as in France, where every license,
facility, and even encouragement presents itself. Lotteries, which have been abolished in England,
as immoral nuisances, are tolerated in France, with more mischievous effect, since, the risk
is considerably less than our least shares formerly were, the lotteries smaller, and those
drawn three times every month. The relics of our gaming system are only to be found on race-courses;
but in France, half the toys sold at a fair or fête, where mothers win rattles for their children,
are by lottery, whilst our gaming at fairs is restricted to a few low adventurers for snuff-boxes,
&c. Despair is the gloomiest feature of the French character, and of which gaming produces
a frightful proportion, notwithstanding all that our neighbours say about our hanging and drowning
in November: witness their suicides:--

  In 1819: Suicides, 376; of which, 126 women.
     1820:  do.      325;  do.      114  do.
     1821:  do.      348;  do.      112  do.

Of the suicides of these three years 25, 50, and 36, were attributed to love, and 52, 42, 43,
to despair arising from gaming, the lottery, &c. In the winter of 1826, several exaggerated
losses by gaming were circulated in Paris with great finesse, to enable bankrupts to account
for their deficiencies, many of whom were exposed and deservedly punished.

A few words on the prevention of gaming, the consideration of which gave rise to this hasty
sketch; I mean by dramatic exhibitions of its direful effects. On our stage we have a pathetic
tragedy by E. Moore, which, though seldom acted, is a fine domestic moral to old and young;
but the author

  "Was his own Beverley, a dupe to play."

It is scarcely necessary to allude to the recent transfers of a celebrated French exposé of
French gambling to our English stage, otherwise than to question their moral tendency. The
pathos of our Gamester may reach the heart; but the French pieces command no such appeal to
our sympathies. On the contrary, the vice is emblazoned in such romantic and fitful fancies,
that their effect is questionable, especially on the majority of those who flock to such exhibitions.
The extasies of the gamester are too seductive to be heightened by dramatic effect; neither
are they counterbalanced by their consesequent misery, when the aim of these representations
should be to outweigh them; for the authenticated publication of a single prize in the lottery
has been known to seduce more adventurers than a thousand losses have deterred from risk. But
they keep up the dancing spirits of the multitude, and it will be well if their influence extends
no further.

PHILO.

    [1] As the Palais Royal may be considered the central point of the
        maisons de jeu, or gambling-houses, it will not be irrelevant
        to give a brief sketch of them:--

        The apartments which they occupy are on the first floor, and are
        very spacious. Upon ascending the staircase is an antechamber, in
        which are persons called bouledogues (bull-dogs), whose
        office it is to prevent the entrance of certain marked individuals.
        In the same room are men to receive hats, umbrellas, &c., who give
        a number, which is restored upon going out.

        The antechamber leads to the several gaming rooms, furnished with
        tables, round which are seated the individuals playing, called
        pontes (punters), each of whom is furnished with a card and a pin
        to mark the rouge and noir, or the number, in order to regulate
        his game. At each end of the table is a man called bout de table,
        who pushes up to the bank the money lost. In the middle of the
        table is the man who draws the cards. These persons, under the
        reign of Louis XIV., were called coupeurs de bourses
        (purse-cutters); they are now denominated tailleurs.
        After having drawn the cards, they mate known the result as
        follows:--Rouge gagne et couleur perd.--Rouge perd et couleur
        gagne.

        At roulette, the tailleurs are those who put the ball in
        motion and announce the result.

        At passe-dix, every time the dice are thrown, the tailleurs
        announce how many the person playing has gained.

        Opposite the tailleur, and on his right and left, are persons
        called croupiers, whose business it is to pay and to collect
        money.

        Behind the tailleurs and croupiers are inspectors, to see
        that too much is not given in payment, besides an indefinite
        number of secret inspectors, who are only known to the proprietors.
        There are also maîtres de maison, who are called to decide
        disputes; and messieurs de la chambre, who furnish cards to
        the pontes, and serve them with beer, &c., which is to be
        had gratis. Moreover, there is a grand maître, to whom the
        apartments, tables, &c., belong.

        When a stranger enters these apartments, he will soon find near
        him some obliging men of mature age, who, with an air of prudence
        and sagacity, proffer their advice. As these advisers perfectly
        understand their own game, if their protégés lose, the mentors
        vanish; but it they win, the counsellor comes nearer, congratulates
        the happy player, insinuates that it was by following his advice
        that fortune smiled on him, and finally succeeds in borrowing a
        small sum of money on honour. Many of these loungers have no
        other mode of living.

        There is likewise another room, furnished with sofas, called
        chamber des blessés, which is far from being the most
        thinly peopled.

        The bank pays in ready money every successful stake and sweeps
        off the losings with wooden instruments, called rateaux
        (rakes).

        It was in one of the houses in this quarter that the late Marshal
        Blucher won and lost very heavy sums, during the occupation of
        Paris by the allied armies.

        There are two gaming-houses in Paris of a more splendid description
        than those of the Palais Royal, where dinners or suppers are given,
        and where ladies are admitted.--Galignani's History of Paris.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RETROSPECT.

  No skies so blue or so serene
  As these;--no leaves look half so green
    As cloth'd the play-ground tree!
  All things I lov'd are altered so,
  Nor does it ease my heart to know
    That change resides in me.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH DRESS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Mr. Editor.--In No. 200 of the MIRROR, you will find an article, entitled Female Fashions during
the early part of the Last Century. The author then promised to give a description of the dress
of the English gentlemen of the same period, but as no such description has yet appeared in
your pages, I trust you will insert the annexed at your first convenient opportunity.

G.W.N.

Dress of the English Gentlemen during the Early part of the Last Century.

In the reign of King William III., the English gentlemen affected to dress like their dependents.
Their hats were laced, and their coats and waistcoats were embroidered with gold and silver
fringe; indeed it really became extremely difficult to distinguish a man of quality from one
of his lackeys. They did not, however, long persevere in this ridiculous imitation, for they
soon afterwards, like the ladies, servilely followed the French fashions. The great partiality
of the English beau monde towards the bon ton of France, was a wonderful advantage to that
country--an advantage which the English government in vain endeavoured to abolish, although
a heavy duty was imposed on all French ribbon and lace imported into this kingdom. Many millions
were annually expended in French cambric, muslin, ribbon, and lace, which useless expenditure
very sensibly injured our commercial transactions with other nations.

Perukes and long wigs were worn at the revolution; but these being greatly inconvenient in
all weathers, some people tied up their wigs, which was the first occasion of short wigs coming
into fashion. Some few years afterwards, bob-wigs were adopted by the gentlemen, especially
by those of the army and the navy.

The English costume was remarkably neat and plain anterior to the year 1748; at which period,
however, all gentlemen rather resembled military officers than private individuals, for their
coats were not only richly embroidered with gold and silver, but they even assumed the cockade
in their hats, and carried long rapiers at their sides. At length this imposing attire was
adopted by the merchants and tradesmen of the metropolis, and soon afterwards by the most notorious
rogues and pickpockets in town, so that when any person with a laced coat, a cockade, and a
sword, walked along the streets of London, it was absolutely impossible to determine whether
he affected to be thought a nobleman, a military officer, a tradesman, or a pickpocket, for
he bore an equal resemblance to each of these characters.

In the year 1749, hair-powder was used by the finished gentlemen, though the use of it, a year
or two previous, was prohibited in every class of society. Of the costume of this period (i.e.
about 1749), the immortal Hogarth, in his works, has left us numerous specimens, which need
no comment here: his productions, indeed, are so equal in merit, that it is impossible to decide
which is his ne plus ultra.

In conclusion, I would advise the reader to refer to a few of Hogarth's prints, for they will
admirably serve to illustrate the above observations on the fashions and habits of our forefathers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Astronomical Occurrences

FOR NOVEMBER, 1827.

(For the Mirror.)

Should the afternoon of Saturday, the 3rd of the month, prove favourable, we shall be afforded
an opportunity of witnessing another of those interesting phenomena--eclipses, at least the
latter part of one, a portion of it only being visible to the inhabitants of this island; the
defect above alluded to is a lunar one. The passage of the moon through the earth's shadow
commences at 3 h. 29 m. 34 s. afternoon; she rises at Greenwich at 4 h. 45 m. 34 s. with the
northern part of her disk darkened to the extent of nearly 10 digits. The greatest obscuration
will take place at 5 h. 7 m. 42 s. when 10-1/2 digits will be eclipsed; she then recedes from
the earth's shadow, when the sun's light will first be perceived extending itself on her lower
limb towards the east; it will gradually increase till she entirely emerges from her veil of
darkness, the extreme verge of which leaves her at her upper limb 32 deg. from her vertex,
or highest point of her disc.

We have the following in "Moore," some years ago, on the nature and causes of eclipses of the
sun and moon:--

  "Far different sun's and moon's eclipses are,
  The moon's are often, but the sun's more rare
  The moon's do much deface her beauty bright;
  Sol's do not his, but hide from us his sight:
  It is the earth the moon's defect procures,
  'Tis the moon's shadow that the sun obscures.
  Eastward, moon's front beginneth first to lack,
  Westward, sun's brows begin their mourning black:
  Moon's eclipses come when she most glorious shines,
  Sun's in moon's wane, when beauty most declines;
  Moon's general, towards heaven and earth together,
  Sun's but to earth, nor to all places neither."

The Sun enters Sagittarius on the 23rd, at 1 h. 2 m. morning.

Mercury will be visible on the 10th, in 10 deg. of Sagittarius, a little after sunset, being
then at his greatest eastern elongation; he is stationary on the 20th, and passes his inferior
conjunction on the 30th, at 1-3/4 h. afternoon.

Venus is in conjunction with the above planet on the 24th, at 9 h. evening; she sets on the
1st at 5 h. 7 m., and on the 30th at 4 h. 47 m. evening.

Jupiter may be seen before sunrise making his appearance above the horizon about 5 h.; he is
not yet distant enough from the sun to render the eclipses of his satellites visible to us.

A small comet has just been discovered, situated in one of the feet of Cassiopea. It is invisible
to the naked eye, and appears approaching the pole with great rapidity.

PASCHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESTIC ECONOMY OF THE ROMANS IN THE FOURTH CENTURY.

A recent discovery has added to our information the most extensive series of statistical data,
which make known from an official act, and by numerical figures, the state of the Roman empire
1500 years ago; the price of agricultural and ordinary labour; the relative value of money;
the abundance or scarcity of certain natural productions; the use, more or less common, of
particular sorts of food; the multiplication of cattle and of flocks; the progress of horticulture;
the abundance of vineyards of various qualities; the common use of singular meats, and dishes,
which we think betrays a corruption of taste; in short the relation of the value existing between
the productions of agriculture and those of industry, from whence we obtain a proof of the
degree of prosperity which both had reached at this remote period.

This precious archaeological monument is an edict of Diocletian, published in the year 303
of our era, and fixing the price of labour and of food in the Roman empire. The first part
of this edict was found by Mr. William Hanks, written upon a table of stone, which he discovered
at Stratonice, now called Eskihissar in Asia Minor. The second part, which was in the possession
of a traveller lately returned from the Levant, has been, brought from Rome to London by M.
de Vescovali, and Colonel Leake intends to publish a literal translation of it. This agreement
of so many persons of respectable character, and known talents, excludes all doubts respecting
the authenticity of the monument.

The imperial edict of Diocletian is composed of more than twenty-four articles. It is quite
distinct from that delivered the preceding year for taxing the price of corn in the eastern
provinces, and it contained no law upon the value of corn. It fixed for all the articles which
it enumerated a maximum, which was the price in times of scarcity. For all the established
prices it makes use of the Roman Denarii; and it applies them to the sextarius for liquids,
and to the Roman pound for the things sold by weight.

Before the Augustan age, the denarius was equal to eighteen sous of our money; but it diminished
gradually in value, and under Diocletian its value was not above nine sous of French money,
and 45 centimes. The Roman pound was equivalent to 12 ounces, and the sextarius which was the
sixth part of a conge, came near to the old Paris chopin, or half a litre.

