On Cavalier's return to his men, he found, to his dismay, that instead of being welcomed back
with the usual cordiality, they were drawn up in arms under Ravanel, and received him in silence,
with angry and scowling looks. He upbraided Ravanel for such a reception, on which the storm
immediately burst. "What is the treaty, then," cried Ravanel, "that thou hast made with this
marshal?"

Cavalier, embarrassed, evaded the inquiry; but Ravanel, encouraged by his men, proceeded to
press for the information. "Well," said Cavalier, "it is arranged that we shall go to serve
in Portugal." There was at once a violent outburst from the ranks. "Traitor! coward! then thou
hast sold us! But we shall have no peace--no peace without our temples."

At sound of the loud commotion and shouting, Vincel, the King's commissioner, who remained
at Calvisson pending the negotiations, came running up, and the men in their rage would have
torn him to pieces, but Cavalier threw himself in their way, exclaiming, "Back, men! Do him
no harm, kill me instead." His voice, his gesture, arrested the Camisards, and Vincel turned
and fled for his life.

Ravanel then ordered the générale to be beaten. The men drew up in their ranks, and putting
himself at their head, Ravanel marched them out of Calvisson by the northern gate. Cavalier,
humiliated and downcast, followed the troop--their leader no more. He could not part with them
thus--the men he had so often led to victory, and who had followed him so devotedly--but hung
upon their rear, hoping they would yet relent and return to him as their chief.

Catinat, his general of horse, observing Cavalier following the men, turned upon him. "Whither
wouldst thou go, traitor?" cried Catinat. What! Catinat, of all others, to prove unfaithful?
Yet it was so! Catinat even, presented his pistol at his former chief, but he did not fire.

Cavalier would not yet turn back. He hung upon the skirts of the column, entreating, supplicating,
adjuring the men, by all their former love for him, to turn, and follow him. But they sternly
marched on, scarcely even deigning to answer him. Ravanel endeavoured to drive him back by
reproaches, which at length so irritated Cavalier, that he drew his sword, and they were about
to rush at each other, when one of the prophets ran between them and prevented bloodshed.

Cavalier did not desist from following them for several miles, until at length, on reaching
St. Estève, the men were appealed to as to whom they would follow, and they declared themselves
for Ravanel. Cavalier made a last appeal to their allegiance, and called out, "Let those who
love me, follow me!" About forty of his old adherents detached themselves from the ranks, and
followed Cavalier in the direction of Nismes. But the principal body remained with Ravanel,
who, waving his sabre in the air, and shouting, "Vive l'Épée de l'Éternel!" turned his men's
faces northward and marched on to rejoin Roland in the Upper Cevennes.

Cavalier was completely prostrated by the desertion of his followers. He did not know where
next to turn. He could not rejoin the Camisard camp nor enter the villages of the Cevennes,
and he was ashamed to approach Villars, lest he should be charged with deceiving him. But he
sent a letter to the marshal, informing him of the failure of his negotiations, the continued
revolt of the Camisards, and their rejection of him as their chief. Villars, however, was gentle
and generous; he was persuaded that Cavalier had acted loyally and in good faith throughout,
and he sent a message by the Baron d'Aigalliers, urgently inviting him to return to Nismes
and arrange as to the future. Cavalier accordingly set out forthwith, accompanied by his brother
and the prophet Daniel, and escorted by the ten horsemen and thirty foot who still remained
faithful to his person.

It is not necessary further to pursue the history of Cavalier. Suffice it to say that, at the
request of Marshal Villars, he proceeded to Paris, where he had an unsatisfactory interview
with Louis XIV.; that fearing an intention on the part of the Roman Catholic party to make
him a prisoner, he fled across the frontier into Switzerland; that he eventually reached England,
and entered the English army, with the rank of Colonel; that he raised a regiment of refugee
Frenchmen, consisting principally of his Camisard followers, at the head of whom he fought
most valiantly at the battle of Almanza; that he was afterwards appointed governor of Jersey,
and died a major-general in the British service in the year 1740, greatly respected by all
who knew him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although Cavalier failed in carrying the treaty into effect, so far as he was concerned, his
secession at this juncture proved a deathblow to the insurrection. The remaining Camisard leaders
endeavoured in vain to incite that enthusiasm amongst their followers which had so often before
led them to victory. The men felt that they were fighting without hope, and as it were with
halters round their necks. Many of them began to think that Cavalier had been justified in
seeking to secure the best terms practicable; and they dropped off, by tens and fifties, to
join their former leader, whose head-quarters for some time continued to be at Vallabergue,
an island in the Rhône a little above Beaucaire.

The insurgents were also in a great measure disarmed by Marshal Villars, who continued to pursue
a policy of clemency, and at the same time of severity. He offered a free pardon to all who
surrendered themselves, but threatened death to all who continued to resist the royal troops.
In sign of his clemency, he ordered the gibbets which had for some years stood en permanence
in all the villages of the Cevennes, to be removed; and he went from town to town, urging all
well-disposed people, of both religions, to co-operate with him in putting an end to the dreadful
civil war that had so long desolated the province.

Moved by the marshal's eloquent appeals, the principal towns along the Gardon and the Vidourle
appointed deputies to proceed in a body to the camp of Roland, and induce him if possible to
accept the proffered amnesty. They waited upon him accordingly at his camp of St. Felix and
told him their errand. But his answer was to order them at once to leave the place on pain
of death.

Villars himself sent messengers to Roland--amongst others the Baron d'Aigalliers--offering
to guarantee that no one should be molested on account of his religion, provided he and his
men would lay down their arms; but Roland remained inflexible--nothing short of complete religious
liberty would induce him to surrender.

Roland and Joany were still at the head of about a thousand men in the Upper Cevennes. Pont-de-Montvert
was at the time occupied by a body of Miguelets, whom they determined if possible to destroy.
Dividing their army into three bodies, they proceeded to assail simultaneously the three quarters
of which the village is composed. But the commander of the Miguelets, informed of Roland's
intention, was prepared to receive him. One of the Camisard wings was attacked at the same
time in front and rear, thrown into confusion and defeated; and the other wings were driven
back with heavy loss.

This was Roland's last battle. About a month later--in August, 1704--while a body of Camisards
occupied the Château of Castelnau, not far from Ners, the place was suddenly surrounded at
night by a body of royalist dragoons. The alarm was raised, and Roland, half-dressed, threw
himself on horseback and fled. He was pursued, overtaken, and brought to a stand in a wood,
where, setting his back to a tree he defended himself bravely for a time against overpowering
numbers, but was at last shot through the heart by a dragoon, and the Camisard chief lay dead
upon the ground.

The insurrection did not long survive the death of Roland. The other chiefs wandered about
from place to place with their followers, but they had lost heart and hope, and avoided further
encounters with the royal forces. One after another of them surrendered. Castanet and Catinat
both laid down their arms, and were allowed to leave France for Switzerland, accompanied by
twenty-two of their men. Joany also surrendered with forty-six of his followers.

One by one the other chiefs laid down their arms--all excepting Abraham and Ravanel, who preferred
liberty and misery at home to peace and exile abroad. They continued for some time to wander
about in the Upper Cevennes, hiding in the woods by day and sleeping in caves by night--hunted,
deserted, and miserable. And thus at last was Languedoc pacified; and at the beginning of January,
1705, Marshal Villars returned to Versailles to receive the congratulations and honours of
the King.

Several futile attempts were afterwards made by the banished leaders to rekindle the insurrection
from its embers, Catinat and Castanet, wearied of their inaction at Geneva, stole back across
the frontier and rejoined Ravanel in the Cevennes; but their rashness cost them their lives.
They were all captured and condemned to death. Castanet and Salomon were broken alive on the
wheel on the Peyrou at Montpellier, and Catinat, Ravanel, with several others, were burnt alive
on the Place de la Beaucaire at Nismes.

The last to perish were Abraham and Joany. The one was shot while holding the royal troops
at bay, firing upon them from the roof of a cottage at Mas-de-Couteau; the other was captured
in the mountains near the source of the Tarn. He was on his way to prison, tied behind a trooper,
like Rob Roy in Scott's novel, when, suddenly freeing himself from his bonds while crossing
the bridge of Pont-de-Montvert, he slid from the horse, and leapt over the parapet into the
Tarn. The soldiers at once opened fire upon the fugitive, and he fell, pierced with many balls,
and was carried away in the torrent. And thus Pont-de-Montvert, which had seen the beginning,
also saw the end of the insurrection.

CHAPTER IX.

GALLEY-SLAVES FOR THE FAITH.

After the death of the last of the Camisard leaders, there was no further effort at revolt.
The Huguenots seemed to be entirely put down, and Protestantism completely destroyed. There
was no longer any resistance nor protest. If there were any Huguenots who had not become Catholics,
they remained mute. Force had at last succeeded in stifling them.

A profound quiet reigned for a time throughout France. The country had become a circle, closely
watched by armed men--by dragoons, infantry, archers, and coastguards--beyond which the Huguenots
could not escape without running the risk of the prison, the galley, or the gibbet.

The intendants throughout the kingdom flattered Louis XIV., and Louis XIV. flattered himself,
that the Huguenots had either been converted, extirpated, or expelled the kingdom. The King
had medals struck, announcing the "extinction of heresy." A proclamation to this effect was
also published by the King, dated the 8th of March, 1715, declaring the entire conversion of
the French Huguenots, and sentencing those who, after that date, relapsed from Catholicism
to Protestantism, to all the penalties of heresy.

What, then, had become of the Huguenots? They were for the moment prostrate, but their life
had not gone out of them. Many were no doubt "converted." They had not strength to resist the
pains and penalties threatened by the State if they refused. They accordingly attended Mass,
and assisted in ceremonies which at heart they detested. Though they blushed at their apostasy,
they were too much broken down and weary of oppression and suffering to attempt to be free.

But though many Huguenots pretended to be "converted," the greater number silently refrained.
They held their peace and bided their time. Meanwhile, however, they were subject to all the
annoyances of persecution. Persecution had seized them from the day of their birth, and never
relaxed its hold until the day of their death. Every new-born child must be taken to the priest
to be baptized. When the children had grown into boys and girls, they must go to school and
be educated, also by the priest. If their parents refused to send them, the children were forcibly
seized, taken away, and brought up in the Jesuit schools and nunneries. And lastly, when grown
up into young men and women, they must be married by the priest, or their offspring be declared
illegitimate.

The Huguenots refused to conform to all this. Nevertheless, it was by no means easy to continue
to refuse obeying the priest. The priest was well served with spies, though the principal spy
in every parish was himself. There were also numerous other professional spies--besides idlers,
mischief-makers, and "good-natured friends." In time of peace, also, soldiers were usually
employed in performing the disgraceful duty of acting as spies upon the Huguenots.

The Huguenot was ordered to attend Mass under the penalty of fine and imprisonment. Supposing
he refused, because he did not believe that the priest had the miraculous power of converting
bread and wine into something the very opposite. The priest insisted that he did possess this
power, and that he was supported by the State in demanding that the Huguenot must come and
worship his transubstantiation of bread into flesh and wine into blood. "I do not believe it,"
said the Huguenot. "But I order you to come, for Louis XIV. has proclaimed you to be a converted
Catholic, and if you refuse you will be at once subject to all the penalties of heresy." It
was certainly very difficult to argue with a priest who had the hangman at his back, or with
the King who had his hundred thousand dragoons. And so, perhaps, the threatened Huguenot went
to Mass, and pretended to believe all that the priest had said about his miraculous powers.

But many resolutely continued to refuse, willing to incur the last and heaviest penalties.
Then it came to be seen that Protestantism, although, declared defunct by the King's edict,
had not in fact expired, but was merely reposing for a time in order to make a fresh start
forward. The Huguenots who still remained in France, whether as "new converts" or as "obstinate
heretics," at length began to emerge from their obscurity. They met together in caves and solitary
places--in deep and rocky gorges--in valleys among the mountains--where they prayed together,
sang together their songs of David, and took counsel one with another.

At length, from private meetings for prayer, religious assemblies began to be held in the Desert,
and preachers made their appearance. The spies spread about the country informed the intendants.
The meetings were often surprised by the military. Sometimes the soldiers would come upon them
suddenly, and fire into the crowd of men, women, and children. On some occasions a hundred
persons or more would be killed upon the spot. Of those taken prisoners, the preachers were
hanged or broken on the wheel, the women were sent to prison, and the children, to nunneries,
while the men were sent to be galley-slaves for life.[46]

         [Footnote 46: In the Viverais and elsewhere they sang the
         song of the persecuted Church:--

                "Nos filles dans les monastères,
                 Nos prisonniers dans les cachots.
             Nos martyrs dont le sang se répand à grands flots,
                 Nos confesseurs sur les galères,
                 Nos malades persécutés,
             Nos mourants exposés à plus d'une furie,
                 Nos morts traînés à la voierie,
                 Te disent (ô Dieu!) nos calamités."]

The persecutions to which Huguenot women and children were exposed caused a sudden enlargement
of all the prisons and nunneries in France. Many of the old castles were fitted up as gaols,
and even their dungeons were used for the incorrigible heretics. One of the worst of these
was the Tour de Constance in the town of Aiguesmortes, which is to this day remembered with
horror as the principal dungeon of the Huguenot women.

The town of Aiguesmortes is situated in the department of Gard, close to the Mediterranean,
whose waters wash into the salt marshes and lagunes by which it is surrounded. It was erected
in the thirteenth century for Philip the Bold, and is still interesting as an example of the
ancient feudal fortress. The fosse has since been filled up, on account of the malaria produced
by the stagnant water which it contained.

The place is approached by a long causeway raised above the marsh, and the entrance to the
tower is spanned by an ancient gatehouse. In advance of the tower, to the north, in an angle
of the wall, is a single, large round tower, which served as a citadel. It is sixty-six feet
in diameter and ninety feet high, surmounted by a lighthouse turret of thirty-four feet. It
consists of two large vaulted apartments, the staircase from the one to the other being built
within the wall itself, which is about eighteen feet thick. The upper chamber is dimly lighted
by narrow chinks through the walls. The lowest of the apartments is the dungeon, which is almost
without light and air. In the centre of the floor is a hole connected with a reservoir of water
below.

This Tour de Constance continued to be the principal prison for Huguenot women in France for
a period of about a hundred years. It was always horribly unhealthy; and to be condemned to
this dungeon was considered almost as certain though a slower death than to be condemned to
the gallows. Sixteen Huguenot women confined there in 1686 died within five months. Most of
them were the wives of merchants of Nismes, or of men of property in the district. When the
prisoners died off, the dungeon was at once filled up again with more victims, and it was rarely,
if ever, empty, down to a period within only a few years before the outbreak of the French
Revolution.

The punishment of the men found attending religious meetings, and taken prisoners by the soldiers,
was to be sentenced to the galleys, mostly for life. They were usually collected in large numbers,
and sent to the seaports attached together by chains. They were sent openly, sometimes through
the entire length of the kingdom, by way of a show. The object was to teach the horrible delinquency
of professing Protestantism; for it could not be to show the greater beautifulness and mercifulness
of Catholicism.

The punishment of the Chain varied in degree. Sometimes it was more cruel than at other times.
This depended upon the drivers of the prisoners. Marteilhe describes the punishment during
his conveyance from Havre to Marseilles in the winter of 1712.[47] The Chain to which he belonged
did not reach Marseilles until the 17th January, 1713. The season was bitterly cold; but that
made no difference in the treatment of Huguenot prisoners.

         [Footnote 47: "Autobiography of a French Protestant condemned
         to the Galleys because of his Religion." Rotterdam, 1757.
         (Since reprinted by the Religious Tract Society.)]

The Chain consisted of a file of prisoners, chained one to another in various ways. On this
occasion, each pair was fastened by the neck with a thick chain three feet long, in the middle
of which was a round ring. After being thus chained, the pairs were placed in file, couple
behind couple, when another long thick chain was passed through the rings, thus running along
the centre of the gang, and the whole were thus doubly-chained together. There were no less
than four hundred prisoners in the chain described by Marteilhe. The number had, however, greatly
fallen off through deaths by barbarous treatment before it reached Marseilles.

It must, however, be added, that the whole gang did not consist of Huguenots, but only a part
of it--the Huguenots being distinguished by their red jackets. The rest consisted of murderers,
thieves, deserters, and criminals of various sorts.

The difficulty which the prisoners had in marching along the roads was very great; the weight
of chain which each member had to carry being no less than one hundred and fifty pounds. The
lodging they had at night was of the worst description. While at Paris, the galley-slaves were
quartered in the Château de la Tournelle, which was under the spiritual direction of the Jesuits.
The gaol consisted of a large cellar or dungeon, fitted with huge beams of oak fixed close
to the floor. Thick iron collars were attached by iron chains to the beams. The collar being
placed round the prisoner's neck, it was closed and riveted upon an anvil with heavy blows
of a hammer.

Twenty men in pairs were thus chained to each beam. The dungeon was so large that five hundred
men could thus be fastened up. They could not sleep lying at full length, nor could they sleep
sitting or standing up straight; the beam to which they were chained being too high in the
one case and too low in the other. The torture which they endured, therefore, is scarcely to
be described. The prisoners were kept there until a sufficient number could be collected to
set out in a great chain for Marseilles.

When they arrived at the first stage out of Paris, at Charenton, after a heavy day's fatigue,
their lodging was no better than before. A stable was found in which they were chained up in
such a way that they could with difficulty sit down, and then only on a dung-heap. After they
had lain there for a few hours, the prisoners' chains were taken off, and they were turned
out into the spacious courtyard of the inn, where they were ordered to strip off their clothes,
put them down at their feet, and march over to the other side of the courtyard.

The object of this proceeding was to search the pockets of the prisoners, examine their clothes,
and find whether they contained any knives, files, or other tools which might be used for cutting
the chains. All money and other valuables or necessaries that the clothes contained were at
the same time taken away.

The night was cold and frosty, with a keen north wind blowing; and after the prisoners had
been exposed to it for about half an hour, their bodies became so benumbed that they could
scarcely move across the yard to where their clothes were lying. Next morning it was found
that eighteen of the unfortunates were happily released by death.

It is not necessary to describe the tortures endured by the galley-slaves to the end of their
journey. One little circumstance may, however, be mentioned. While marching towards the coast,
the exhausted Huguenots, weary and worn out by the heaviness of their chains, were accustomed
to stretch out their little wooden cups for a drop of water to the inhabitants of the villages
through which they passed. The women, whom they mostly addressed, answered their entreaties
with the bitterest spite. "Away, away!" they cried; "you are going where you will have water
enough!"

When the gang or chain reached the port at which the prisoners were to be confined, they were
drafted on board the different galleys. These were for the most part stationed at Toulon, but
there were also other galleys in which Huguenots were imprisoned--at Marseilles, Dunkirk, Brest,
St. Malo, and Bordeaux. Let us briefly describe the galley of those days.

The royal galley was about a hundred and fifty feet long and forty feet broad, and was capable
of containing about five hundred men. It had fifty benches for rowers, twenty-five on each
side. Between these two rows of benches was the raised middle gallery, commonly called the
waist of the ship, four feet high and about three or four feet broad. The oars were fifty feet
long, of which thirty-seven feet were outside the ship and thirteen within. Six men worked
at each oar, all chained to the same bench. They had to row in unison, otherwise they would
be heavily struck by the return rowers both before and behind them. They were under the constant
command of the comite or galley-slave-driver, who struck all about him with his long whip in
urging them to work. To enable his strokes to tell, the men sat naked while they rowed.[48]
Their dress was always insufficient, summer and winter--the lower part of their bodies being
covered with a short red jacket and a sort of apron, for their manacles prevented them wearing
any other dress.

         [Footnote 48: Le comite ou chef de chiourme, aidé de deux
         sous-comites, allait et venait sans cesse sur le coursier,
         frappant les forçats à coup de nerfs de boeuf, comme un
         cocher ses chevaux. At night, the galley-slave slept where he sat--on the bench on
which he had been rowing all day. There was no room for him to lie
down. He never quitted his bench except for the hospital or the grave;
yet some of the Huguenot rowers contrived to live upon their benches
for thirty or forty years!

During all these years they toiled in their chains in a hell of foul and disgusting utterance,
for they were mixed up with thieves and the worst of criminals. They ate the bread and drank
the waters of bitterness. They seemed to be forsaken by the world. They had no one to love
them, for most had left their families behind them at home, or perhaps in convents or prisons.
They lived under the constant threats of their keepers, who lashed them to make them row harder,
who lashed them to make them sit up, or lashed them to make them lie down. The Chevalier Langeron,
captain of La Palme, of which Marteilhe was at first a rower, used to call the comite to him
and say, "Go and refresh the backs of these Huguenots with a salad of strokes of the whip."
For the captain, it seems, "held the most Jesuitical sentiments," and hated his Huguenot prisoners
far worse than his thieves or his murderers.[49]

         [Footnote 49: "The Autobiography of a French Protestant,"
         68.]

And yet, at any moment, a word spoken would have made these Huguenots free. The Catholic priests
frequently visited the galleys and entreated them to become converted. If "converted," and
the Huguenots would only declare that they believed in the miraculous powers of the clergy,
their chains would fall away from their limbs at once; and they would have been restored to
the world, to their families, and to liberty! And who would not have declared themselves "converted,"
rather than endure these horrible punishments? Yet by far the greater number of the Huguenots
did not. They could not be hypocrites. They would not lie to God. Rather than do this, they
had the heroism--some will call it the obstinacy--to remain galley-slaves for life!

Many of the galley-slaves did not survive their torture long. Men of all ages and conditions,
accustomed to indoor life, could not bear the exposure to the sun, rain, and snow, which the
punishment of the galley-slave involved. The old men and the young soon succumbed and died.
Middle-aged men survived the longest. But there was always a change going on. When the numbers
of a galley became thinned by death, there were other Huguenots ready to be sent on board--perhaps
waiting in some inland prison until another "Great Chain" could be made up for the seaports,
to go on board the galley-ships, to be manacled, tortured, and killed off as before.

Such was the treatment of the galley-slaves in time of peace. But the galleys were also war-ships.
They carried large numbers of armed men on board. Sometimes they scoured the Mediterranean,
and protected French merchant-ships against the Sallee rovers. At other times they were engaged
in the English channel, attacking Dutch and English ships, sometimes picking up a prize, at
other times in actual sea-fight.

When the service required, they were compelled to row incessantly night and day, without rest,
save in the last extremity; and they were treated as if, on the first opportunity, in sight
of the enemy, they would revolt and betray the ship; hence they were constantly watched by
the soldiers on board, and if any commotion appeared amongst them, they were shot down without
ceremony, and their bodies thrown into the sea. Loaded cannons were also placed at the end
of the benches of rowers, so as to shoot them down in case of necessity.

Whenever an enemy's ship came up, the galley-slaves were covered over with a linen screen,
so as to prevent them giving signals to the enemy. When an action occurred, they were particularly
exposed to danger, for the rowers and their oars were the first to be shot at--just as the
boiler or screw of a war-steamer would be shot at now--in order to disable the ship. The galley-slaves
thus suffered much more from the enemy's shot than the other armed men of the ship. The rowers
benches were often filled with dead, before the soldiers and mariners on board had been touched.

Marteilhe, while a galley-slave on board La Palme, was engaged in an adventure which had nearly
cost him his life. Four French galleys, after cruising along the English coast from Dover to
the Downs, got sight of a fleet of thirty-five merchant vessels on their way from the Texel
to the Thames, under the protection of one small English frigate. The commanders of the galleys,
taking counsel together, determined to attack the frigate (which they thought themselves easily
able to master), and so capture the entire English fleet.

The captain of the frigate, when he saw the galleys approach him, ordered the merchantmen to
crowd sail and make for the Thames, the mouth of which they had nearly reached. He then sailed
down upon the galleys, determined to sacrifice his ship if necessary for the safety of his
charge. The galleys fired into him, but he returned never a shot. The captain of the galley
in which Marteilhe was, said, "Oh, he is coming to surrender!" The frigate was so near that
the French musqueteers were already firing full upon her. All of a sudden the frigate tacked
and veered round as if about to fly from the galleys. The Frenchmen called out that the English
were cowards in thus trying to avoid the battle. If they did not surrender at once, they would
sink the frigate!

The English captain took no notice. The frigate then turned her stern towards the galley, as
if to give the Frenchmen an opportunity of boarding her. The French commander ordered the galley
at once to run at the enemy's stern, and the crew to board the frigate. The rush was made;
the galley-slaves, urged by blows of the whip, rowing with great force. The galley was suddenly
nearing the stern of the frigate, when by a clever stroke of the helm the ship moved to one
side, and the galley, missing it, rushed past. All the oars on that side were suddenly broken
off, and the galley was placed immediately under the broadside of the enemy.

Then began the English part of the game. The French galley was seized with grappling irons
and hooked on to the English broadside. The men on board the galley were as exposed as if they
had been upon a raft or a bridge. The frigate's guns, which were charged with grapeshot, were
discharged full upon them, and a frightful carnage ensued. The English also threw hand grenades,
which went down amongst the rowers and killed many. They next boarded the galley, and cut to
pieces all the armed men they could lay hold of, only sparing the convicts, who could make
no attempt at defence.

The English captain then threw off the galley, which he had broadsided and disarmed, in order
to look after the merchantmen, which some of the other galleys had gone to intercept on their
way to the mouth of the Thames. Some of the ships had already been captured; but the commanders
of the galleys, seeing their fellow-commodores flying signals of distress, let go their prey,
and concentrated their attack upon the frigate. This they surrounded, and after a very hard
struggle the frigate was captured, but not until the English captain had ascertained that all
the fleet of which he had been in charge had entered the Thames and were safe.

In the above encounter with the English frigate Marteilhe had nearly lost his life. The bench
on which he was seated, with five other slaves, was opposite one of the loaded guns of the
frigate. He saw that it must be discharged directly upon them. His fellows tried to lie down
flat, while Marteilhe himself stood up. He saw the gunner with his lighted match approach the
touchhole; then he lifted up his heart to God; the next moment he was lying stunned and prostrate
in the centre of the galley, as far as the chain would allow him to reach. He was lying across
the body of the lieutenant, who was killed. A long time passed, during which the fight was
still going on, and then Marteilhe came to himself, towards dark. Most of his fellow-slaves
were killed. He himself was bleeding from a large open wound on his shoulder, another on his
knee, and a third in his stomach. Of the eighteen men around him he was the only one that escaped,
with his three wounds.

The dead were all thrown into the sea. The men were about to throw Marteilhe after them, but
while attempting to release him from his chain, they touched the wound upon his knee, and he
groaned heavily. They let him remain where he lay. Shortly after, he was taken down to the
bottom of the hold with the other men, where he long lay amongst the wounded and dying. At
length he recovered from his wounds, and was again returned to his bench, to re-enter the horrible
life of a galley-slave.

There was another mean and unmanly cruelty, connected with this galley-slave service, which
was practised only upon the Huguenots. If an assassin or other criminal received a wound in
the service of the state while engaged in battle, he was at once restored to his liberty; but
if a Huguenot was wounded, he was never released. He was returned to his bench and chained
as before; the wounds he had received being only so many additional tortures to be borne by
him in the course of his punishment.

Marteilhe, as we have already stated, was disembarked when he had sufficiently recovered, and
marched through the entire length of France, enchained with other malefactors. On his arrival
at Marseilles, he was placed on board the galley Grand Réale, where he remained until peace
was declared between England and France by the Treaty of Utrecht.[50]

         [Footnote 50: "Autobiography of a French Protestant,"
         112-21.]

Queen Anne of England, at the instigation of the Marquis de Rochegade, then made an effort
to obtain the liberation of Protestants serving at the galleys; and at length, out of seven
hundred and forty-two Huguenots who were then enslaved, a hundred and thirty-six were liberated,
of whom Marteilhe was one. He was thus enabled to get rid of his inhuman countrymen, and to
spend the remainder of his life in Holland and England, where Protestants were free.

CHAPTER X.

ANTOINE COURT

Almost at the very time that Louis XIV. was lying on his death-bed at Versailles, a young man
conceived the idea of re-establishing Protestantism in France! Louis XIV. had tried to enter
heaven by superstition and cruelty. On his death-bed he began to doubt whether he "had not
carried his authority too far."[51] But the Jesuits tried to make death easy for him, covering
his body with relics of the true cross.

         [Footnote 51: Saint-Simon and Dangeau.]

Very different was the position of the young man who tried to undo all that Louis XIV., under
the influence of his mistress De Maintenon, and his Jesuit confessor, Père la Chase,[52] had
been trying all his life to accomplish. He was an intelligent youth, the son of Huguenot parents
in Viverais, of comparatively poor and humble condition. He was, however, full of energy, activity,
and a zealous disposition for work. Observing the tendency which Protestantism had, while bereft
of its pastors, to run into gloomy forms of fanaticism, Antoine Court conceived the idea of
reviving the pastorate, and restoring the proscribed Protestant Church of France. It was a
bold idea, but the result proved that Antoine Court was justified in entertaining it.

         [Footnote 52: Amongst the many satires and epigrams with
         which Louis XIV. was pursued to the grave, the following
         epitaph may be given:--

           "Ci gist le mari de Thérèse
           De la Montespan le Mignon,
           L'esclave de la Maintenon,
           Le valet du père La Chaise."

         At the death of Louis XIV., Voltaire, an élève of the
         Jesuits, was appropriately coming into notice. At the age of
         about twenty he was thrown into the Bastille; for having
         written a satire on Louis XIV., of which the following is an
         extract:--

           "J'ai vu sous l'habit d'une femme
             Un démon nous donner la loi;
           Elle sacrifia son Dieu, sa foi, son âme,
           Pour séduire l'esprit d'un trop crédule roi.

             *       *       *       *       *

             J'ai vu l'hypocrite honoré:
           J'ai vu, c'est dire tout, le jésuite adoré:
             J'ai vu ces maux sous le règne funeste
           D'un prince que jadis la colère céleste
           Accorda, par vengeance, à nos désirs ardens:
             J'ai vu ces maux, et je n'ai pas vingt ans."

         Voltaire denied having written this satire.]

Louis XIV. died in August, 1715. During that very month, Court summoned together a small number
of Huguenots to consider his suggestions. The meeting was held at daybreak, in an empty quarry
near Nismes, which has already been mentioned in the course of this history. But it may here
be necessary to inform the reader of the early life of this enthusiastic young man.

Antoine Court was born at Villeneuve de Berg, in Viverais, in the year 1696. Religious persecution
was then at its height; assemblies were vigorously put down; and all pastors taken prisoners
were hanged on the Peyrou at Montpellier. Court was only four years old when his father died,
and his mother resolved, if the boy lived, to train him up so that he might consecrate himself
to the service of God. He was still very young while the Camisard war was in progress, but
he heard a great deal about it, and vividly remembered all that he heard.

Antoine Court, like many Protestant children, was compelled to attend a Jesuit school in his
neighbourhood. Though but a boy he abhorred the Mass. With Protestants the Mass was then the
symbol of persecution; it was identified with the Revocation of the Edict--the dragonnades,
the galleys, the prisons, the nunneries, the monkeries, and the Jesuits. The Mass was not a
matter of knowledge, but of fear, of terror, and of hereditary hatred.

At school, the other boys were most bitter against Court, because he was the son of a Huguenot.
Every sort of mischief was practised upon him, for little boys are generally among the greatest
of persecutors. Court was stoned, worried, railed at, laughed at, spit at. When leaving school,
the boys called after him "He, he! the eldest son of Calvin!" They sometimes pursued him with
clamour and volleys of stones to the door of his house, collecting in their riotous procession
all the other Catholic boys of the place. Sometimes they forced him into church whilst the
Mass was being celebrated. In fact, the boy's hatred of the Mass and of Catholicism grew daily
more and more vehement.

All these persecutions, together with reading some of the books which came under his notice
at home, confirmed his aversion to the Jesuitical school to which he had been sent. At the
same time he became desirous of attending the secret assemblies, which he knew were being held
in the neighbourhood. One day, when his mother set out to attend one of them, the boy set out
to follow her. She discovered him, and demanded whither he was going. "I follow you, mother,"
said he, "and I wish you to permit me to go where you go. I know that you go to pray to God,
and will you refuse me the favour of going to do so with you?"

She shed tears at his words, told him of the danger of attending the assembly, and strongly
exhorted him to secrecy; but she allowed him to accompany her. He was at that time too little
and weak to walk the whole way to the meeting; but other worshippers coming up, they took the
boy on their shoulders and carried him along with them.

At the age of seventeen, Court began to read the Bible at the assemblies. One day, in a moment
of sudden excitement, common enough at secret meetings, he undertook to address the assembly.
What he said was received with much approval, and he was encouraged to go on preaching. He
soon became famous among the mountaineers, and was regarded as a young man capable of accomplishing
great things.

As he grew older, he at length determined to devote his life to preaching and ministering to
the forsaken and afflicted Protestants. It was a noble, self-denying work, the only earthly
reward for which was labour, difficulty, and danger. His mother was in great trouble, for Antoine
was her only remaining son. She did not, however, press him to change his resolution. Court
quoted to her the text, "Whoever loves father and mother more than me, is not worthy of me."
After this, she only saw in her son a victim consecrated, like another Abraham, to the Divine
service.

After arriving at his decision, Court proceeded to visit the Huguenots in Low Languedoc, passing
by Uzes to Nismes, and preaching wherever he could draw assemblies of the people together.
His success during this rapid excursion induced him to visit Dauphiny. There he met Brunel,
another preacher, with knapsack on his back, running from place to place in order to avoid
spies, priests, and soldiers. The two were equally full of ardour, and they went together preaching
in many places, and duly encouraging each other.

From Dauphiny, Court directed his steps to Marseilles, where the royal galleys stationed there
contained about three hundred Huguenot galley-slaves. He penetrated these horrible floating
prisons, without being detected, and even contrived to organize amongst them a regular system
of secret worship. Then he returned to Nismes, and from thence went through the Cevennes and
the Viverais, preaching to people who had never met for Protestant worship since the termination
of the wars of the Camisards. To elude the spies, who began to make hot search for him, because
of the enthusiasm which he excited, Court contrived to be always on the move, and to appear
daily in some fresh locality.

The constant fatigue which he underwent undermined his health, and he was compelled to remain
for a time inactive at the mineral waters of Euzet. This retirement proved useful. He began
to think over what might be done to revivify the Protestant religion in France. Remember that
he was at that time only nineteen years of age! It might be thought presumptuous in a youth,
comparatively uninstructed, even to dream of such a subject. The instruments of earthly power--King,
Pope, bishops, priests, soldiers, and spies--were all arrayed against him. He had nothing to
oppose to them but truth, uprightness, conscience, and indefatigable zeal for labour.

When Court had last met the few Protestant preachers who survived in Languedoc, they were very
undecided about taking up his scheme. They had met at Nismes to take the sacrament in the house
of a friend. There were Bombonnoux (an old Camisard), Crotte, Corteiz, Brunel, and Court. Without
coming to any decision, they separated, some going to Switzerland, and others to the South
and West of France. It now rested with Court, during his sickness, to study and endeavour to
arrange the method of reorganization of the Church.

The Huguenots who remained in France were then divided into three classes--the "new converts,"
who professed Catholicism while hating it; the lovers of the ancient Protestant faith, who
still clung to it; and, lastly, the more ignorant, who still clung to prophesying and inspiration.
These last had done the Protestant Church much injury, for the intelligent classes generally
regarded them as but mere fanatics.

Court found it would be requisite to keep the latter within the leading-strings of spiritual
instruction, and to encourage the "new converts" to return to the church of their fathers by
the re-establishment of some efficient pastoral service. He therefore urged that religious
assemblies must be continued, and that discipline must be established by the appointment of
elders, presbyteries, and synods, and also by the training up of a body of young pastors to
preach amongst the people, and discipline them according to the rules of the Protestant Church.
Nearly thirty years had passed since it had been disorganized by the Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes, so that synods, presbyteries, and the training of preachers had become almost forgotten.

The first synod was convened by Court, and held in the abandoned quarry near Nismes, above
referred to, in the very same month in which Louis XIV. breathed his last. It was a very small
beginning. Two or three laymen and a few preachers[53] were present, the whole meeting numbering
only nine persons. The place in which the meeting was held had often before been used as a
secret place of worship by the Huguenots. Religious meetings held there had often been dispersed
by the dragoons, and there was scarcely a stone in it that had not been splashed by Huguenot
blood. And now, after Protestantism had been "finally suppressed," Antoine Court assembled
his first synod to re-establish the proscribed religion!

         [Footnote 53: Edmund Hughes says the preachers were probably
         Rouviere (or Crotte), Jean Huc, Jean Vesson, Etienne Arnaud,
         and Durand.]

The first meeting took place on the 21st of August, 1715, at daybreak. After prayer, Court,
as moderator, explained his method of reorganization, which was approved. The first elders
were appointed from amongst those present. A series of rules and regulations was resolved upon
and ordered to be spread over the entire province. The preachers were then charged to go forth,
to stir up the people and endeavour to bring back the "new converts."

They lost no time in carrying out their mission. The first districts in which they were appointed
to work were those of Mende, Alais, Viviers, Uzes, Nismes, and Montpellier, in Languedoc--districts
which, fifteen years before, had been the scenes of the Camisard war. There, in unknown valleys,
on hillsides, on the mountains, in the midst of hostile towns and villages, the missionaries
sought out the huts, the farms, and the dwellings of the scattered, concealed, and half-frightened
Huguenots. Amidst the open threats of the magistrates and others in office, and the fear of
the still more hateful priests and spies, they went from house to house, and prayed, preached,
advised, and endeavoured to awaken the zeal of their old allies of the "Religion."

The preachers were for the most part poor, and some of them were labouring men. They were mostly
natives of Languedoc. Jean Vesson, a cooper by trade, had in his youth been "inspired," and
prophesied in his ecstasy. Mazelet, now an elderly man, had formerly been celebrated among
the Camisards, and preached with great success before the soldiers of Roland. At forty he was
not able to read or write; but having been forced to fly into Switzerland, he picked up some
education at Geneva, and had studied divinity under a fellow-exile.

Bombonnoux had been a brigadier in the troop of Cavalier. After his chief's defection he resolved
to continue the war to the end, by preaching, if not by fighting. He had been taken prisoner
and imprisoned at Montpellier, in 1705. Two of his Camisard friends were first put upon the
rack, and then, while still living, thrown upon a pile and burnt to death before his eyes.
But the horrible character of the punishment did not terrify him. He contrived to escape from
prison at Montpellier, and then went about convoking assemblies and preaching to the people
as before.

Besides these, there were Huc, Corteiz, Durand, Arnaud, Brunel, and Rouviere or Crotte, who
all went about from place to place, convoking assemblies and preaching. There were also some
local preachers, as they might be called--old men who could not move far from home--who worked
at their looms or trades, sometimes tilling the ground by day, and preaching at night. Amongst
these were Monteil, Guillot, and Bonnard, all more than sixty years of age.

Court, because of his youth and energy, seems to have been among the most active of the preachers.
One day, near St. Hypolite, a chief centre of the Huguenot population, he convoked an assembly
on a mountain side, the largest that had taken place for many years. The priests of the parish
gave information to the authorities; and the governor of Alais offered a reward of fifty pistoles
to anyone who would apprehend and deliver up to him the young preacher. Troops were sent into
the district; upon which Court descended from the mountains towards the towns of Low Languedoc,
and shortly after he arrived at Nismes.

At Nismes, Court first met Jacques Roger, who afterwards proved of great assistance to him
in his work. Roger had long been an exile in Wurtemburg. He was originally a native of Boissieres,
in Languedoc, and when a young man was compelled to quit France with his parents, who were
Huguenots. His heart, however, continued to draw him towards his native country, although it
had treated himself and his family so cruelly.

As Roger grew older, he determined to return to France, with the object of helping his friends
of the "Religion." A plan had occurred to him, like that which Antoine Court was now endeavouring
to carry into effect. The joy with which Roger encountered Court at Nismes, and learnt his
plans, may therefore be conceived. The result was, that Roger undertook to "awaken" the Protestants
of Dauphiny, and to endeavour to accomplish there what Court was already gradually effecting
in Languedoc. Roger held his first synod in Dauphiny in August, 1716, at which seven preachers
and several elders or anciens assisted.

In the meantime Antoine Court again set out to visit the churches which had been reconstructed
along the banks of the Gardon. He had been suffering from intermittent fever, and started on
his journey before he was sufficiently recovered. Having no horse, he walked on foot, mostly
by night, along the least known by-paths, stopping here and there upon his way. At length he
became so enfeebled and ill as to be unable to walk further. He then induced two men to carry
him. By crossing their hands over each other, they took him up between them, and carried him
along on this improvised chair.

Court found a temporary lodging with a friend. But no sooner had he laid himself down to sleep,
than the alarm was raised that he must get up and fly. A spy had been observed watching the
house. Court rose, put on his clothes, and though suffering great pain, started afresh. The
night was dark and rainy. By turns shivering with cold and in an access of fever, he wandered
alone for hours across the country, towards the house of another friend, where he at last found
shelter. Such were the common experiences of these wandering, devoted, proscribed, and heroic
ministers of the Gospel.

Their labours were not carried on without encountering other and greater dangers. Now that
the Protestants were becoming organized, it was not so necessary to incite them to public worship.
They even required to be restrained, so that they might not too suddenly awaken the suspicion
or excite the opposition of the authorities. Thus, at the beginning of 1717, the preacher Vesson
held an open assembly near Anduze. It was surprised by the troops; and seventy-two persons
made prisoners, of whom the men were sent to the galleys for life, and the women imprisoned
in the Tour de Constance. Vesson was on this occasion reprimanded by the synod, for having
exposed his brethren to unnecessary danger.

While there was the danger of loss of liberty to the people, there was the danger of loss of
life to the pastors who were bold enough to minister to their religious necessities. Etienne
Arnaud having preached to an assembly near Alais, was taken prisoner by the soldiers. They
took him to Montpellier, where he was judged, condemned, and sent back to Alais to be hanged.
This brave young man gave up his life with great courage and resignation. His death caused
much sorrow amongst the Protestants, but it had no effect in dissuading the preachers and pastors
from the work they had taken in hand. There were many to take the place of Arnaud. Young Bètrine
offered himself to the synod, and was accepted.

Scripture readers were also appointed, to read the Bible at meetings which preachers were not
able to attend. There was, however, a great want of Bibles amongst the Protestants. One of
the first things done by the young King Louis XV.--the "Well-beloved" of the Jesuits--on his
ascending the throne, was to issue a proclamation ordering the seizure of Bibles, Testaments,
Psalm-books, and other religious works used by the Protestants. And though so many books had
already been seized and burnt in the reign of Louis XIV., immense piles were again collected
and given to the flames by the executioners.

"Our need of books is very great," wrote Court to a friend abroad; and the same statement was
repeated in many of his letters. His principal need was of Bibles and Testaments; for every
Huguenot knew the greater part of the Psalms by heart. When a Testament was obtained, it was
lent about, and for the most part learnt off. The labour was divided in this way. One person,
sometimes a boy or girl, of good memory, would undertake to learn one or more chapters in the
Gospels, another a certain number in the Epistles, until at last a large portion of the book
was committed to memory, and could be recited at the meetings of the assemblies. And thus also
it happened, that the conversation of the people, as well as the sermons of their preachers,
gradually assumed a strongly biblical form.

Strong appeals were made to foreign Protestants to supply the people with books. The refugees
who had settled in Switzerland, Holland, and England sent the Huguenots remaining in France
considerable help in this way. They sent many Testaments and Psalm-books, together with catechisms
for the young, and many devotional works written by French divines residing in Holland and
England--by Drelincourt, Saurin, Claude and others. These were sent safely across the frontier
in bales, put into the hands of colporteurs, and circulated amongst the Protestants all over
the South of France. The printing press of Geneva was also put in requisition; and Court had
many of his sermons printed there and distributed amongst the people.

Until this time, Court had merely acted as a preacher; and it was now determined to ordain
and consecrate him as a pastor. The ceremony, though, comparatively unceremonious, was very
touching. A large number of Protestants in the Vaunage assembled on the night of the 21st November,
1718, and, after prayer, Court rose and spoke for some time of the responsible duties of the
ministry, and of the necessity and advantages of preaching. He thanked God for having raised
up ministers to serve the Church when so many of her enemies were seeking for her ruin. He
finally asked the whole assembly to pray for grace to enable him to fulfil with renewed zeal
the duties to which, he was about to be called, together with all the virtues needed for success.
At these touching words the assembled hearers shed tears. Then Corteiz, the old pastor, drew
near to Court, now upon his knees, and placing a Bible upon his head, in the name of Jesus
Christ, and with the authority of the synod, gave him power to exercise all the functions of
the ministry. Cries of joy were heard on all sides. Then, after further prayer, the assembly
broke up in the darkness of the night.

The plague which broke out in 1720 helped the progress of the new Church. The Protestants thought
the plague had been sent as a punishment for their backsliding. Piety increased, and assemblies
in the Desert were more largely attended than before. The intendants ceased to interfere with
them, and the soldiers were kept strictly within their cantonments. More preachers were licensed,
and more elders were elected. Many new churches were set up throughout Languedoc; and the department
of the Lozère, in the Cevennes, became again almost entirely Protestant. Roger and Villeveyre
were almost equally successful in Dauphiny; and Saintonge, Normandy, and Poitou were also beginning
to maintain a connection with the Protestant churches of Languedoc.

CHAPTER XI.

REORGANIZATION OF THE CHURCH IN THE DESERT.

The organization of the Church in the Desert is one of the most curious things in history.
Secret meetings of the Huguenots had long been held in France. They were began several years
before the Act of Revocation was proclaimed, when the dragonnades were on foot, and while the
Protestant temples were being demolished by the Government. The Huguenots then arranged to
meet and hold their worship in retired places.

As the meetings were at first held, for the most part, in Languedoc, and as much of that province,
especially in the district of the Cevennes, is really waste and desert land, the meetings were
at first called "Assemblies in the Desert," and for nearly a hundred years they retained that name.

When Court began to reorganize the Protestant Church in France, shortly after the Camisard
war, meetings in the Desert had become almost unknown. There were occasional prayer-meetings,
at which chapters of the Bible were read or recited by those who remembered them, and psalms
were sung; but there were few or no meetings at which pastors presided. Court, however, resolved
not only to revive the meetings of the Church in the Desert, but to reconstitute the congregations,
and restore the system of governing them according to the methods of the Huguenot Church.

The first thing done in reconstituting a congregation, was to appoint certain well-known religious
men, as anciens or elders. These were very important officers. They formed the church in the
first instance; for where there were no elders, there was no church. They were members of the
consistoire or presbytery. They looked after the flock, visited them in their families, made
collections, named the pastors, and maintained peace, order, and discipline amongst the people.
Though first nominated by the pastors, they were elected by the congregation; and the reason
for their election was their known ability, zeal, and piety.

The elder was always present at the assemblies, though the minister was absent. He prevented
the members from succumbing to temptation and falling away; he censured scandal; he kept up
the flame of religious zeal, and encouraged the failing and helpless; he distributed amongst
the poorest the collections made and intrusted to him by the Church.

We have said that part of the duty of the elders was to censure scandal amongst the members.
If their conduct was not considered becoming the Christian life, they were not visited by the
pastors and were not allowed to attend the assemblies, until they had declared their determination
to lead a better life. What a punishment for infraction of discipline! to be debarred attending
an assembly, for being present at which, the pastor, if detected, might be hanged, and the
penitent member sent to the galleys for life![54]

         [Footnote 54: C. Coquerel, "Église du Désert," i. 105.]

The elders summoned the assemblies. They gave the word to a few friends, and these spread the
notice about amongst the rest. The news soon became known, and in the course of a day or two,
the members of the congregation, though living perhaps in distant villages, would be duly informed
of the time and place of the intended meeting. It was usually held at night,--in some secret
place--in a cave, a hollow in the woods, a ravine, or an abandoned farmstead.

Men, women, and even children were taken thither, after one, two, or sometimes three leagues'
walking. The meetings were always full of danger, for spies were lurking about. Catholic priests
were constant informers; and soldiers were never far distant. But besides the difficulties
of spies and soldiers, the meetings were often dispersed by the rain in summer, or by the snow
in winter.

After the Camisard war, and before the appearance of Court, these meetings rarely numbered
more than a hundred persons. But Court and his fellow-pastors often held meetings at which
more than two thousand people were present. On one occasion, not less than four thousand persons
attended an assembly in Lower Languedoc.

When the meetings were held by day, they were carefully guarded and watched by sentinels on
the look-out, especially in those places near which garrisons were stationed. The fleetest
of the young men were chosen for this purpose. They watched the garrison exits, and when the
soldiers made a sortie, the sentinels communicated by signal from hill to hill, thus giving
warning to the meeting to disperse. But the assemblies were mostly held at night; and even
then the sentinels were carefully posted about, but not at so great a distance.

The chief of the whole organization was the pastor. First, there were the members entitled
to church, privileges; next the anciens; and lastly the pastors. As in Presbyterianism, so
in Huguenot Calvinism, its form of government was republican. The organization was based upon
the people who elected their elders; then upon the elders who selected and recommended the
pastors; and lastly upon the whole congregation of members, elders, and pastors (represented
in synods), who maintained the entire organization of the Church.

There were three grades of service in the rank of pastor--first students, next preachers, and
lastly pastors. Wonderful that there should have been students of a profession, to follow which
was almost equal to a sentence of death! But there were plenty of young enthusiasts ready to
brave martyrdom in the service of the proscribed Church. Sometimes it was even necessary to
restrain them in their applications.

Court once wrote to Pierre Durand, at a time when the latter was restoring order and organization
in Viverais: "Sound and examine well the persons offering themselves for your approval, before
permitting them to enter on this glorious employment. Secure good, virtuous men, full of zeal
for the cause of truth. It is piety only that inspires nobility and greatness of soul. Piety
sustains us under the most extreme dangers, and triumphs over the severest obstacles. The good
conscience always marches forward with its head erect."

When the character of the young applicants was approved, their studies then proceeded, like
everything else connected with the proscribed religion, in secret. The students followed the
professor and pastor in his wanderings over the country, passing long nights in marching, sometimes
hiding in caves by day, or sleeping under the stars by night, passing from meeting to meeting,
always with death looming before them.

"I have often pitched my professor's chair," said Court, "in a torrent underneath a rock. The
sky was our roof, and the leafy branches thrown out from the crevices in the rock overhead,
were our canopy. There I and my students would remain for about eight days; it was our hall,
our lecture-room, and our study. To make the most of our time, and to practise the students
properly, I gave them a text of Scripture to discuss before me--say the first eleven verses
of the fifth chapter of Luke. I would afterwards propose to them some point of doctrine, some
passage of Scripture, some moral precept, or sometimes I gave them some difficult passages
to reconcile. After the whole had stated their views upon the question under discussion, I
asked the youngest if he had anything to state against the arguments advanced; then the others
were asked in turn; and after they had finished, I stated the views which I considered most
just and correct. When the more advanced students were required to preach, they mounted a particular
place, where a pole had been set across some rocks in the ravine, and which for the time served
for a pulpit. And when they had delivered themselves, the others were requested by turns to
express themselves freely upon the subject of the sermon which they had heard."

When the proposant or probationer was considered sufficiently able to preach, he was sent on
a mission to visit the churches. Sometimes he preached the approved sermons of other pastors;
sometimes he preached his own sermons, after they had been examined by persons appointed by
the synod. After a time, if approved by the moderator and a committee of the synod, the proposant
was licensed to preach. His work then resembled that of a pastor; but he could not yet administer
the sacrament. It was only when he had passed the synod, and been appointed by the laying on
of hands, that he could exercise the higher pastoral functions.

Then, with respect to the maintenance of the pastors and preachers, Court recounts, not without
pride, that for the ten years between 1713 and 1723 (excepting the years which he spent at
Geneva), he served the Huguenot churches without receiving a farthing. His family and friends
saw to the supply of his private wants. With respect to the others, they were supported by
collections made at the assemblies; and, as the people were nearly all poor, the amount collected
was very small. On one occasion, three assemblies produced a halfpenny and six half-farthings.

But a regular system of collecting moneys was framed by the synods (consisting of a meeting
of pastors and elders), and out of the common fund so raised, emoluments were assigned, first
to those preachers who were married, and afterwards to those who were single. In either case
the pay was very small, scarcely sufficient to keep the wolf from the door.

The students for the ministry were at first educated by Court and trained to preach, while
he was on his dangerous journeys from one assembly in the Desert to another. Nor was the supply
of preachers sufficient to visit the congregations already organized. Court had long determined,
so soon as the opportunity offered, of starting a school for the special education of preachers
and pastors, so that the work he was engaged in might be more efficiently carried on. He at
first corresponded with influential French refugees in England and Holland with reference to
the subject. He wrote to Basnage and Saurin, but they received his propositions coolly. He
wrote to William Wake, then Archbishop of Canterbury, who promised his assistance. At last
Court resolved to proceed into Switzerland, to stir up the French refugees disposed to help
him in his labours.

Arrived at Geneva, Court sought out M. Pictet, to whom he explained the state of affairs in
France. It had been rumoured amongst the foreign Protestants that fanaticism and "inspiration"
were now in the ascendant among the Protestants of France. Court showed that this was entirely
a mistake, and that all which the proscribed Huguenots in France wanted, was a supply of properly
educated pastors. The friends of true religion, and the enemies of fanaticism, ought therefore
to come to their help and supply them with that of which they stood most in need. If they would
find teachers, Court would undertake to supply them with congregations. And Huguenot congregations
were rapidly increasing, not only in Languedoc and Dauphiny, but in Normandy, Picardy, Poitou,
Saintonge, Bearn, and the other provinces.

At length the subject became matured. It was not found desirable to establish the proposed
school at Geneva, that city being closely watched by France, and frequently under the censure
of its government for giving shelter to refugee Frenchmen. It was eventually determined that
the college for the education of preachers should begin at Lausanne. It was accordingly commenced
in the year 1726, and established under the superintendence of M. Duplan.

A committee of refugees called the "Society of Help for the Afflicted Faithful," was formed
at Lausanne to collect subscriptions for the maintenance of the preachers, the pastors, and
the seminary. These were in the first place received from Huguenots settled in Switzerland,
afterwards increased by subscriptions obtained from refugees settled in Holland, Germany, and
England. The King of England subscribed five hundred guineas yearly. Duplan was an indefatigable
agent. In fourteen years he collected fourteen thousand pounds. By these efforts the number
of students was gradually increased. They came from all parts of France, but chiefly from Languedoc.
Between 1726 (the year in which it was started) and 1753, ninety students had passed through
the seminary.

When the students had passed the range of study appointed by the professors, they returned
from Switzerland to France to enter upon the work of their lives. They had passed the school
for martyrdom, and were ready to preach to the assemblies--they had paved their way to the
scaffold!

The preachers always went abroad with their lives in their hands. They travelled mostly by
night, shunning the open highways, and selecting abandoned routes, often sheep-paths across
the hills, to reach the scene of their next meeting. The trace of their steps is still marked
upon the soil of the Cevennes, the people of the country still speaking of the solitary routes
taken by their instructors when passing from parish to parish, to preach to their fathers.

They were dressed, for disguise, in various ways; sometimes as peasants, as workmen, or as
shepherds. On one occasion, Court and Duplan travelled the country disguised as officers! The
police heard of it, and ordered their immediate arrest, pointing out the town and the very
house where they were to be taken. But the preachers escaped, and assumed a new dress.

When living near Nismes, Court was one day seated under a tree composing a sermon, when a party
of soldiers, hearing that he was in the neighbourhood, came within sight. Court climbed up
into the tree, where he remained concealed among the branches, and thus contrived to escape
their search.

On another occasion, he was staying with a friend, in whose house he had slept during the previous
night. A detachment of troops suddenly surrounded the house, and the officer knocked loudly
at the door. Court made his friend go at once to bed pretending to be ill, while he himself
cowered down in the narrow space between the bed and the wall. His wife slowly answered the
door, which the soldiers were threatening to blow open. They entered, rummaged the house, opened
all the chests and closets, sounded the walls, examined the sick man's room, and found nothing!

Court himself, as well as the other pastors, worked very hard. On one occasion, Court made
a round of visits in Lower Languedoc and in the Cevennes, at first alone, and afterwards accompanied
by a young preacher. In the space of two months and a few days he visited thirty-one churches,
holding assemblies, preaching, and administering the sacrament, during which he travelled over
three hundred miles. The weather did not matter to the pastors--rain nor snow, wind nor storm,
never hindered them. They took the road and braved all. Even sickness often failed to stay
them. Sickness might weaken but did not overthrow them.

The spies and police so abounded throughout the country, and were so active, that they knew
all the houses in which the preachers might take refuge. A list of these was prepared and placed
in the hands of the intendant of the province.[55] If preachers were found in them, both the
shelterers and the sheltered knew what they had to expect. The whole property and goods of
the former were confiscated and they were sent to the galleys for life; and the latter were
first tortured by the rack, and then hanged. The houses in which preachers were found were
almost invariably burnt down.

         [Footnote 55: It has since been published in the "Bulletin de
         la Société du Protestantisme Français."]

Notwithstanding the great secrecy with which the whole organization proceeded, preachers were
frequently apprehended, assemblies were often surprised, and many persons were imprisoned and
sent to the galleys for life. Each village had its chief spy--the priest; and beneath the priest
there were a number of other spies--spies for money, spies for cruelty, spies for revenge.

Was an assembly of Huguenots about to be held? A spy, perhaps a traitor, would make it known.
The priest's order was sufficient for the captain of the nearest troop of soldiers to proceed
to disperse it. They marched and surrounded the assembly. A sound of volley-firing was heard.
The soldiers shot down, hanged, or made prisoners of the unlawful worshippers. Punishments
were sudden, and inquiry was never made into them, however brutal. There was the fire for Bibles,
Testaments, and psalm-books; galleys for men; prisons and convents for women; and gibbets for
preachers.

In 1720 a large number of prisoners were captured in the famous old quarry near Nismes, long
the seat of secret Protestant worship. But the troops surrounded the meeting suddenly, and
the whole were taken. The women were sent for life to the Tour de Constance, and the men, chained
in gangs, were sent all through France to La Rochelle, to be imprisoned in the galleys there.
The ambassador of England made intercession for the prisoners, and their sentence was commuted
into one of perpetual banishment from France. They were accordingly transported to New Orleans
on the Mississippi, to populate the rising French colony in that quarter of North America.

Thus crimes abounded, and cruelty when practised upon Huguenots was never investigated. The
seizure and violation of women was common. Fathers knew the probable consequence when their
daughters were seized. The daughter of a Huguenot was seized at Uzes, in 1733, when the father
immediately died of grief. Two sisters were seized at the same place to be "converted," and
their immediate relations were thrown into gaol in the meantime. This was a common proceeding.
The Tour de Constance was always filling, and kept full.

The dying were tortured. If they refused the viaticum they were treated as "damned persons."
When Jean de Molènes of Cahors died, making a profession of Protestantism, his body was denounced
as damned, and it was abandoned without sepulture. A woman who addressed some words of consolation
to Joseph Martin when dying was condemned to pay a fine of six thousand livres, and be imprisoned
in the castle of Beauregard; and as for Martin, his memory was declared to be damned for ever. 94.]

         [Footnote 57: Bénoît, "Edit de Nantes," v. 987.]

Notwithstanding all these cruelties, Protestantism was making considerable progress, both in
Languedoc and Dauphiny. In reorganizing the Church, the whole country had been divided into
districts, and preachers and pastors endeavoured to visit the whole of their members with as
much regularity as possible. Thus Languedoc was divided into seven districts, and to each of
those a proposant or probationary preacher was appointed. The presbyteries and synods met regularly
and secretly in a cave, or the hollow bed of a river, or among the mountains. They cheered
each other up, though their progress was usually over the bodies of their dead friends.

For any pastor or preacher to be apprehended, was, of course, certain death. Thus, out of thirteen
Huguenots who were found worshipping in a private apartment at Montpellier, in 1723, Vesson,
the pastor, and Bonicel and Antoine Comte, his assistants, were at once condemned and hanged
on the Peyrou, the other ten persons being imprisoned or sent to the galleys for life.

Shortly after, Huc, the aged pastor, was taken prisoner in the Cevennes, brought to Montpellier,
and hanged in the same place. A reward of a thousand livres was offered by Bernage, the intendant,
for the heads of the remaining preachers, the fatal list comprising the names of Court, Cortez,
Durand, Rouviere, Bombonnoux, and others. The names of these "others" were not mentioned, not
being yet thought worthy of the gibbet.

And yet it was at this time that the Bishop of Alais made an appeal to the government against
the toleration shown to the Huguenots! In 1723, he sent a long memorial to Paris, alleging
that Catholicism was suffering a serious injury; that not only had the "new converts" withdrawn
themselves from the Catholic Church, but that the old Catholics themselves were resorting to
the Huguenot assemblies; that sometimes their meetings numbered from three to four thousand
persons; that their psalms were sometimes overheard in the surrounding villages; that the churches
were becoming deserted, the curés in some parishes not being able to find a single Catholic
to serve at Mass; that the Protestants had ceased to send their children to school, and were
baptized and married without the intervention of the Church.

In consequence of these representations, the then Regent, the Duke of Bourbon, sent down an
urgent order to the authorities to carry out the law--to prevent meetings, under penalty of
death to preachers, and imprisonment at the galleys to all who attended them, ordering that
the people should be forced to go to church and the children to school, and reviving generally
the severe laws against Protestantism issued by Louis XIV. The result was that many of the
assemblies were shortly after attacked and dispersed, many persons were made prisoners and
sent to the galleys, and many more preachers were apprehended, racked, and hanged.

Repeated attempts were made to apprehend Antoine Court, as being the soul of the renewed Protestant
organization. A heavy reward was offered for his head. The spies and police hunted after him
in all directions. Houses where he was supposed to be concealed were surrounded by soldiers
at night, and every hole and corner in them ransacked. Three houses were searched in one night.
Court sometimes escaped with great difficulty. On one occasion he remained concealed for more
than twenty hours under a heap of manure. His friends endeavoured to persuade him to leave
the country until the activity of the search for him had passed.

Since the year 1722, Court had undertaken new responsibilities. He had become married, and
was now the father of three children. He had married a young Huguenot woman of Uzes. He first
met her in her father's house, while he was in hiding from the spies. While he was engaged
in his pastoral work his wife and family continued to live at Uzes. Court was never seen in
her company, but could only visit his family secretly. The woman was known to be of estimable
character, but it gave rise to suspicions that she had three children without a known father.
The spies were endeavouring to unravel the secret, tempted by the heavy reward offered for
Court's head.

One day the new commandant of the town, passing before the door of the house where Court's
wife lived, stopped, and, pointing to the house, put some questions to the neighbours. Court
was informed of this, and immediately supposed that his house had become known, that his wife
and family had been discovered and would be apprehended. He at once made arrangements for having
them removed to Geneva. They reached that city in safety, in the month of April, 1729.

Shortly after, Court, still wandering and preaching about Languedoc, became seriously ill.
He feared for his wife, he feared for his family, and conceived the design of joining them
in Switzerland. A few months later, exhausted by his labours and continued illness, he left
Languedoc and journeyed by slow stages to Geneva. He was still a young man, only thirty-three;
but he had worked excessively hard during the last dozen years. Since the age of fourteen,
in fact, he had evangelized Languedoc.

Shortly before Court left France for Switzerland, the preacher, Alexandre Roussel, was, in
the year 1728, added to the number of martyrs. He was only twenty-six years of age. The occasion
on which he was made prisoner was while attending an assembly near Vigan. The whole of the
people had departed, and Roussel was the last to leave the meeting. He was taken to Montpellier,
and imprisoned in the citadel, which had before held so many Huguenot pastors. He was asked
to abjure, and offered a handsome bribe if he would become a Catholic. He refused to deny his
faith, and was sentenced to die. When Antoine Court went to offer consolation to his mother,
she replied, "If my son had given way I should have been greatly distressed; but as he died
with constancy, I thank God for strengthening him to perform this last work in his service."

Court did not leave his brethren in France without the expostulations of his friends. They
alleged that his affection for his wife and family had cooled his zeal for God's service. Duplan
and Cortez expostulated with him; and the churches of Languedoc, which he himself had established,
called upon him to return to his duties amongst them.

But Court did not attend to their request. His determination was for the present unshaken.
He had a long arrears of work to do in quiet. He had money to raise for the support of the
suffering Church of France, and for the proper maintenance of the college for students, preachers,
and pastors. He had to help the refugees, who still continued to leave France for Switzerland,
and to write letters and rouse the Protestant kingdoms of the north, as Brousson had done before
him some thirty years ago.

The city of Berne was very generous in its treatment of Court and the Huguenots generally.
The Bernish Government allotted Court a pension of five hundred livres a-year--for he was without
the means of supporting his family--all his own and his wife's property having been seized
and sequestrated in France. Court preached with great success in the principal towns of Switzerland,
more particularly at Berne, and afterwards at Lausanne, where he spent the rest of his days.

Though he worked there more peacefully, he laboured as continuously as ever in the service
of the Huguenot churches. He composed addresses to them; he educated preachers and pastors
for them; and one of his principal works, while at Lausanne, was to compose a history of the
Huguenots in France subsequent to the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.

What he had done for the reorganization of the Huguenot Church in France may be thus briefly
stated. Court had begun his work in 1715, at which time there was no settled congregation in
the South of France. The Huguenots were only ministered to by occasional wandering pastors.
In 1729, the year in which Court finally left France, there were in Lower Languedoc 29 organized,
though secretly governed, churches; in Upper Languedoc, 11; in the Cevennes, 18; in the Lozère
12; and in Viverais, 42 churches. There were now over 200,000 recognised Protestants in Languedoc
alone. The ancient discipline had been restored; 120 churches had been organized; a seminary
for the education of preachers and pastors had been established; and Protestantism was extending
in Dauphiny, Bearn, Saintonge,[58] and other quarters.

         [Footnote 58: In 1726, a deputation from Guyenne, Royergue,
         and Poitou, appeared before the Languedoc synod, requesting
         preachers and pastors to be sent to them. The synod agreed to
         send Maroger as preacher. Bètrine (the first of the Lausanne
         students) and Grail were afterwards sent to join him.
         Protestantism was also reawakening in Saintonge and Picardy,
         and pastors from Languedoc journeyed there to administer the
         sacrament. Preachers were afterwards sent to join them, to
         awaken the people, and reorganize the congregations.]

Such were, in a great measure, the results of the labours of Antoine Court and his assistants
during the previous fifteen years.

CHAPTER XII.

THE CHURCH IN THE DESERT, 1730-62--PAUL RABAUT.

The persecutions of the Huguenots increased at one time and relaxed at another. When France
was at war, and the soldiers were fighting in Flanders or on the Rhine, the bishops became
furious, and complained bitterly to the government of the toleration shown to the Protestants.
The reason was that there were no regiments at liberty to pursue the Huguenots and disperse
their meetings in the Desert. When the soldiers returned from the wars, persecution began again.

It usually began with the seizing and burning of books. The book-burning days were considered
amongst the great days of fête.

One day in June, 1730, the Intendant of Languedoc visited Nismes, escorted by four battalions
of troops. On arriving, the principal Catholics were selected, and placed as commissaries to
watch the houses of the suspected Huguenots. At night, while the inhabitants slept, the troops
turned out, and the commissaries pointed out the Huguenot houses to be searched. The inmates
were knocked up, the soldiers entered, the houses were rummaged, and all the books that could
be found were taken to the Hôtel de Ville.

A few days after a great auto-da-fé was held. The entire Catholic population turned out. There
were the four battalions of troops, the gendarmes, the Catholic priests, and the chief dignitaries;
and in their presence all the Huguenot books were destroyed. They were thrown into a pile on
the usual place of execution, and the hangman set fire to this great mass of Bibles, psalm-books,
catechisms, and sermons.[59] The officers laughed, the priests sneered, the multitude cheered.
These bonfires were of frequent occurrence in all the towns of Languedoc. 96.]

But if the priests hated the printed word, still more did they hate the spoken word. They did
not like the Bible, but they hated the preachers. Fines, auto-da-fés, condemnation to the galleys,
seizures of women and girls, and profanation of the dead, were tolerable punishments, but there
was nothing like hanging a preacher. "Nothing," said Saint-Florentin to the commandant of La
Devese, "can produce more impression than hanging a preacher; and it is very desirable that
you should immediately take steps to arrest one of them."

The commandant obeyed orders, and apprehended Pierre Durand. He was on his way to baptize the
child of one of his congregation, who lived on a farm in Viverais. An apparent peasant, who
seemed to be waiting his approach, offered to conduct him to the farm. Durand followed him.
The peasant proved to be a soldier in disguise. He led Durand directly into the midst of his
troop. There he was bound and carried off to Montpellier.

Durand was executed at the old place--the Peyrou--the soldiers beating their drums to stifle
his voice while he prayed. His corpse was laid beside that of Alexandre Roussel, under the
rampart of the fortress of Montpellier. Durand was the last of the preachers in France who
had attended the synod of 1715. They had all been executed, excepting only Antoine Court, who
was safe in Switzerland.

The priests were not so successful with Claris, the preacher, who contrived to escape their
clutches. Claris had just reached France on his return from the seminary at Lausanne. He had
taken shelter for the night with a Protestant friend at Foissac, near Uzes. Scarcely had he
fallen asleep, when the soldiers, informed by the spies, entered his chamber, bound him, and
marched him off on foot by night, to Alais. He was thrown into gaol, and was afterwards judged
and condemned to death. His friends in Alais, however, secretly contrived to get an iron chisel
passed to him in prison. He raised the stone of a chamber which communicated with his dungeon,
descended to the ground, and silently leapt the wall. He was saved.

Pastors and preachers continued to be tracked and hunted with renewed ardour in Saintonge,
Poitou, Gascony, and Dauphiny. "The Chase," as it was called, was better organized than it
had been for twenty years previously. The Catholic clergy, however, continued to complain.
The chase, they said, was not productive enough! The hangings of pastors were too few. The
curates of the Cevennes thus addressed the intendants: "You do not perform your duty: you are
neither active enough nor pitiless enough;"[60] and they requested the government to adopt
more vigorous measures.

         [Footnote 60: E. Hughes, ii. 99. Coquerel, "L'Église dans le
         Désert," i. 258.]

The intendants, who were thus accused, insisted that they had done their duty. They had hanged
all the Huguenot preachers that the priests and their spies had discovered and brought to them.
They had also offered increased rewards for the preachers' heads. If Protestantism counted
so large a number of adherents, they were surely not to blame for that! Had the priests themselves
done their duty? Thus the intendants and the curés reproached each other by turns.

And yet the pastors and preachers had not been spared. They had been hanged without mercy.
They knew they were in the peril of constant death. "I have slept fifteen days in a meadow,"
wrote Cortez, the pastor, "and I write this under a tree." Morel, the preacher, when attending
an assembly, was fired at by the soldiers and died of his wounds. Pierre Dortial was also taken
prisoner when holding an assembly. The host with whom he lived was condemned to the galleys
for life; the arrondissement in which the assembly had been held was compelled to pay a fine
of three thousand livres; and Dortial himself was sentenced to be hanged. When the aged preacher
was informed of his sentence he exclaimed: "What an honour for me, oh my God! to have been
chosen from so many others to suffer death because of my constancy to the truth." He was executed
at Nismes, and died with courage.

In 1742 France was at war, and the Huguenots enjoyed a certain amount of liberty. The edicts
against them were by no means revoked; their execution was merely suspended. The provinces
were stripped of troops, and the clergy could no longer call upon them to scatter the meetings
in the Desert. Hence the assemblies increased. The people began to think that the commandants
of the provinces had received orders to shut their eyes, and see nothing of the proceedings
of the Huguenots.

At a meeting held in a valley between Calvisson and Langlade, in Languedoc, no fewer than ten
thousand persons openly met for worship. No troops appeared. There was no alarm nor surprise.
Everything passed in perfect quiet. In many other places, public worship was celebrated, the
sacrament was administered, children were baptized, and marriages were celebrated in the open
day.[61]

         [Footnote 61: Although marriages by the pastors had long been
         declared illegal, they nevertheless married and baptized in
         the Desert. After 1730, the number of Protestant marriages
         greatly multiplied, though it was known that the issue of
         such marriages were declared, by the laws of France to be
         illegal. Many of the Protestants of Dauphiny went across the
         frontier into Switzerland, principally to Geneva, and were
         there married.]

The Catholics again urgently complained to the government of the increasing number of Huguenot
meetings. The Bishop of Poitiers complained that in certain parishes of his diocese there was
not now a single Catholic. Low Poitou contained thirty Protestant churches, divided into twelve
arrondissements, and each arrondissement contained about seven thousand members. The Procureur-Général
of Normandy said, "All this country is full of Huguenots." But the government had at present
no troops to spare, and the Catholic bishops and clergy must necessarily wait until the war
with the English and the Austrians had come to an end.

Antoine Court paid a short visit to Languedoc in 1744, to reconcile a difference which had
arisen in the Church through the irregular conduct of Pastor Boyer. Court was received with
great enthusiasm, and when Boyer was re-established in his position as pastor, after making
his submission to the synod, a convocation of Huguenots was held near Sauzet, at which thousands
of people were present. Court remained for about a month in France, preaching almost daily
to immense audiences. At Nismes, he preached at the famous place for Huguenot meetings--in
the old quarry, about three miles from the town. There were about twenty thousand persons present,
ranged, as in an amphitheatre, along the sides of the quarry. It was a most impressive sight.
Peasants and gentlemen mixed together. Even the "beau monde" of Nismes was present. Everybody
thought that there was now an end of the persecution.[62]

         [Footnote 62: Of the preachers about this time (1740-4) the
         best known were Morel, Foriel, Mauvillon, Voulaud, Corteiz,
         Peyrot, Roux, Gauch, Coste, Dugnière, Blachon, Gabriac,
         Déjours, Rabaut, Gibert, Mignault, Désubas, Dubesset, Pradel,
         Morin, Defferre, Loire, Pradon,--with many more. Defferre
         restored Protestantism in Berne. Loire (a native of St. Omer,
         and formerly a Catholic), Viala, Préneuf, and Prudon, were
         the apostles of Normandy, Rouergue, Guyenne, and Poitou.]

In the meantime the clergy continued to show signs of increasing irritation. They complained,
denounced, and threatened. Various calumnies were invented respecting the Huguenots. The priests
of Dauphiny gave out that Roger, the pastor, had read an edict purporting to be signed by Louis
XV. granting complete toleration to the Huguenots! The report was entirely without foundation,
and Roger indignantly denied that he had read any such edict. But the report reached the ears
of the King, then before Ypres with his army; on which he issued a proclamation announcing
that the rumour publicly circulated that it was his intention to tolerate the Huguenots was
absolutely false.

No sooner had the war terminated, and the army returned to France, than the persecutions recommenced
as hotly as ever. The citizens of Nismes, for having recently encouraged the Huguenots and
attended Court's great meeting, were heavily fined. All the existing laws for the repression
and destruction of Protestantism were enforced. Suspected persons were apprehended and imprisoned
without trial. A new "hunt" was set on foot for preachers. There were now plenty of soldiers
at liberty to suppress the meetings in the Desert, and they were ordered into the infested
quarters. In a word, persecution was let loose all over France. Nor was it without the usual
results. It was very hot in Dauphiny. There a detachment of horse police, accompanied by regular
troops and a hangman, ran through the province early in 1745, spreading terror everywhere.
One of their exploits was to seize a sick old Huguenot, drag him from his bed, and force him
towards prison. He died upon the road.

In February, it was ascertained that the Huguenots met for worship in a certain cavern. The
owner of the estate on which the cavern was situated, though unaware of the meetings, was fined
a thousand crowns, and imprisoned for a year in the Castle of Cret.

Next month, Louis Ranc, a pastor, was seized at Livron while baptizing an infant, taken to
Die, and hanged. He had scarcely breathed his last, when the hangman cut the cord, hewed off
the head, and made a young Protestant draw the corpse along the streets of Die.

In the month of April, 1745, Jacques Roger, the old friend and coadjutor of Court--the apostle
of Dauphiny as Court had been of Languedoc--was taken prisoner and conducted to Grenoble. Roger
was then eighty years old, worn out with privation and hard work. He was condemned to death.
He professed his joy at being still able to seal with his blood the truths he had so often
proclaimed. On his way to the scaffold, he sang aloud the fifty-first Psalm. He was executed
in the Place du Breuil. After he had hung for twenty-four hours, his body was taken down, dragged
along the streets of Grenoble, and thrown into the Isère.

At Grenoble also, in the same year, seven persons were condemned to the galleys. A young woman
was publicly whipped at the same place for attending a Huguenot meeting. Seven students and
pastors who could not be found, were hanged in effigy. Four houses were demolished for having
served as asylums for preachers. Fines were levied on all sides, and punishments of various
kinds were awarded to many hundred persons. Thus persecution ran riot in Dauphiny in the years
1745 and 1746.

In Languedoc it was the same. The prisons and the galleys were always kept full. Dragoons were
quartered in the Huguenot villages, and by this means the inhabitants were soon ruined. The
soldiers pillaged the houses, destroyed the furniture, tore up the linen, drank all the wine,
and, when they were in good humour, followed the cattle, swine, and fowl, and killed them off
sword in hand. Montauban, an old Huguenot town, was thus ruined in the course of a very few months.

One day, in a Languedoc village, a soldier seized a young girl with a foul intention. She cried
aloud, and the villagers came to her rescue. The dragoons turned out in a body, and fired upon
the people. An old man was shot dead, a number of the villagers were taken prisoners, and,
with their hands tied to the horses' tails, were conducted for punishment to Montauban.

All the towns and villages in Upper Languedoc were treated with the same cruelty. Nismes was
fined over and over again. Viverais was treated with the usual severity. M. Désubas, the pastor,
was taken prisoner there, and conducted to Vernoux. As the soldiers led him through the country
to prison, the villagers came out in crowds to see him pass. Many followed the pastor, thinking
they might be able to induce the magistrates of Vernoux to liberate him. The villagers were
no sooner cooped up in a mass in the chief street of the town, than they were suddenly fired
upon by the soldiers. Thirty persons were killed on the spot, more than two hundred were wounded,
and many afterwards died of their wounds.

Désubas, the pastor, was conducted to Nismes, and from Nismes to Montpellier. While on his
way to death at Montpellier, some of his peasant friends, who lived along the road, determined
to rescue him. But when Paul Rabaut heard of the proposed attempt, he ran to the place where
the people had assembled and held them back. He was opposed to all resistance to the governing
power, and thought it possible, by patience and righteousness, to live down all this horrible
persecution.

Désubas was judged, and, as usual, condemned to death. Though it was winter time, he was led
to his punishment almost naked; his legs uncovered, and only in thin linen vest over his body.
Arrived at the gallows, his books and papers were burnt before his eyes, and he was then delivered
over to the executioner. A Jesuit presented a crucifix for him to kiss, but he turned his head
to one side, raised his eyes upwards, and was then hanged.

The same persecution prevailed over the greater part of France. In Saintonge, Elie Vivien,
the preacher, was taken prisoner, and hanged at La Rochelle. His body remained for twenty-four
hours on the gallows. It was then placed upon a forked gibbet, where it hung until the bones
were picked clean by the crows and bleached by the wind and the sun.[63]

         [Footnote 63: E. Hughes, "Histoire de la Restauration," &c.,
         ii. 202.]

The same series of persecutions went on from one year to another. It was a miserable monotony
of cruelty. There was hanging for the pastors; the galleys for men attending meetings in the
Desert; the prisons and convents for women and children. Wherever it was found that persons
had been married by the Huguenot pastors, they were haled before the magistrate, fined and
imprisoned, and told that they had been merely living in concubinage, and that their children
were illegitimate.

Sometimes it was thought that the persecutors would relent. France was again engaged in a disastrous
war with England and Austria; and it was feared that England would endeavour to stir up a rebellion
amongst the Huguenots. But the pastors met in a general synod, and passed resolutions assuring
the government of their loyalty to the King,[64] and of their devotion to the laws of France!

         [Footnote 64: On the 1st of November, 1746, the ministers of
         Languedoc met in haste, and wrote to the Intendant, Le Nain:
         "Monseigneur, nous n'avons aucune connaissance de ces gens
         qu'on appelle émissaires, et qu'on dit être envoyés des pays
         étrangers pour solliciter les Protestants à la révolte. Nous
         avons exhorté, et nous nous proposons d'exhorter encore dans
         toutes les occasions, nos troupeaux à la soumission au
         souverain et à la patience dans les afflictions, et de nous
         écarter jamais de la pratique de ce précepte: Craignez Dieu
         et honorez le roi."]

Their "loyalty" proved of no use. The towns of Languedoc were as heavily fined as before, for
attending meetings in the Desert.[65] Children were, as usual, taken away from their parents
and placed in Jesuit convents. Le Nain apprehended Jean Desjours, and had him hanged at Montpellier,
on the ground that he had accompanied the peasants who, as above recited, went into Vernoux
after the martyr Désubas.

         [Footnote 65: Près de Saint-Ambroix (Cevennes) se tint un
         jour une assemblée. Survint un détachement. Les femmes et les
         filles furent dépouillées, violées, et quelques hommes furent
         blessés.--E. HUGHES, Histoire de la Restauration, &c., ii.
         212.]

The Catholics would not even allow Protestant corpses to be buried in peace. At Levaur a well-known
Huguenot died. Two of his friends went to dig a grave for him by night; they were observed
by spies and informed against. By dint of money and entreaties, however, the friends succeeded
in getting the dead man buried. The populace, stirred up by the White Penitents (monks), opened
the grave, took out the corpse, sawed the head from the body, and prepared to commit further
outrages, when the police interfered, and buried the body again, in consideration of the large
sum that had been paid to the authorities for its interment.

The populace were always wild for an exhibition of cruelty. In Provence, a Protestant named
Montague died, and was secretly interred. The Catholics having discovered the place where he
was buried determined to disinter him. The grave was opened, and the corpse taken out. A cord
was attached to the neck, and the body was hauled through the village to the music of a tambourine
and flageolet. At every step it was kicked or mauled by the crowd who accompanied it. Under
the kicks the corpse burst. The furious brutes then took out the entrails and attached them
to poles, going through the village crying, "Who wants preachings? Who wants preachings?"[66]

         [Footnote 66: Antoine Court, "Mémoire Historique," 140.]

To such a pitch of brutality had the kings of France and their instigators, the Jesuits--who,
since the Revocation of the Edict, had nearly the whole education of the country in their hands--reduced
the people; from whom they were themselves, however, to suffer almost an equal amount of indignity.

In the midst of these hangings and cruelties, the bishops again complained bitterly of the
tolerance granted to the Huguenots. M. de Montclus, Bishop of Alais, urged "that the true cause
of all the evils that afflict the country was the relaxation of the laws against heresy by
the magistrates, that they gave themselves no trouble to persecute the Protestants, and that
their further emigration from the kingdom was no more to be feared than formerly." It was,
they alleged, a great danger to the country that there should be in it two millions of men
allowed to live without church and outside the law.[67]

         [Footnote 67: See "Memorial of General Assembly of Clergy to
         the King," in Collection des procès-verbaux, 345.]

The afflicted Church at this time had many misfortunes to contend with. In 1748, the noble,
self-denying, indefatigable Claris died--one of the few Protestant pastors who died in his
bed. In 1750, the eloquent young preacher, François Benezet,[68] was taken and hanged at Montpellier.
Meetings in the Desert were more vigorously attacked and dispersed, and when surrounded by
the soldiers, most persons were shot; the others were taken prisoners.

         [Footnote 68: The King granted 480 livres of reward to the
         spy who detected Benezet and procured his apprehension by the
         soldiers.]

The Huguenot pastors repeatedly addressed Louis XV. and his ministers, appealing to them for
protection as loyal subjects. In 1750 they addressed the King in a new memorial, respectfully
representing that their meetings for public worship, sacraments, baptisms, and marriages, were
matters of conscience. They added: "Your troops pursue us in the deserts as if we were wild
beasts; our property is confiscated; our children are torn from us; we are condemned to the
galleys; and although our ministers continually exhort us to discharge our duty as good citizens
and faithful subjects, a price is set upon their heads, and when they are taken, they are cruelly
executed." But Louis XV. and his ministers gave no greater heed to this petition than they
had done to those which had preceded it.

After occasional relays the Catholic persecutions again broke out. In 1752 there was a considerable
emigration in consequence of a new intendant having been appointed to Languedoc. The Catholics
called upon him to put in force the powers of the law. New brooms sweep clean. The Intendant
proceeded to carry out the law with such ferocity as to excite great terror throughout the
province. Meetings were surrounded; prisoners taken and sent to the galleys; and all the gaols
and convents were filled with women and children.

The emigration began again. Many hundred persons went to Holland; and a still larger number
went to settle with their compatriots as silk and poplin weavers in Dublin. The Intendant of
Languedoc tried to stop their flight. The roads were again watched as before. All the outlets
from the kingdom were closed by the royalist troops. Many of the intending emigrants were made
prisoners. They were spoiled of everything, robbed of their money, and thrown into gaol. Nevertheless,
another large troop started, passed through Switzerland, and reached Ireland at the end of
the year.

At the same time, emigration was going on from Normandy and Poitou, where persecution was compelling
the people to fly from their own shores and take refuge in England. This religious emigration
of 1752 was, however, almost the last which took place from France. Though the persecutions
were drawing to an end, they had not yet come to a close.

In 1754, the young pastor Tessier (called Lafage), had just returned from Lausanne, where he
had been pursuing his studies for three years. He had been tracked by a spy to a certain house,
where he had spent the night. Next morning the house was surrounded by soldiers. Tessier tried
to escape by getting out of a top window and running along the roofs of the adjoining houses.
A soldier saw him escaping and shot at him. He was severely wounded in the arm. He was captured,
taken before the Intendant of Languedoc, condemned, and hanged in the course of the same day.

Religious meetings also continued to be surrounded, and were treated in the usual brutal manner.
For instance, an assembly was held in Lower Languedoc on the 8th of August, 1756, for the purpose
of ordaining to the ministry three young men who had arrived from Lausanne, where they had
been educated. A number of pastors were present, and as many as from ten to twelve thousand
men, women, and children were there from the surrounding country. The congregation was singing
a psalm, when a detachment of soldiers approached. The people saw them; the singing ceased;
the pastors urging patience and submission. The soldiers fired; every shot told; and the crowd
fled in all directions. The meeting was thus dispersed, leaving the murderers--in other words,
the gallant soldiers--masters of the field; a long track of blood remaining to mark the site
on which the prayer-meeting had been held.

It is not necessary to recount further cruelties and tortures. Assemblies surrounded and people
shot; preachers seized and hanged; men sent to the galleys; women sent to the Tour de Constance;
children carried off to the convents--such was the horrible ministry of torture in France.
When Court heard of the re-inflictions of some old form of torture--"Alas," said he, "there
is nothing new under the sun. In all times, the storm of persecution has cleansed the threshing-floor
of the Lord."

And yet, notwithstanding all the bitterness of the persecution, the number of Protestants increased.
It is difficult to determine their numbers. Their apologists said they amounted to three millions;[69]
their detractors that they did not amount to four hundred thousand. The number of itinerant
pastors, however, steadily grew. In 1756 there were 48 pastors at work, with 22 probationary
preachers and students. In 1763 there were 62 pastors, 35 preachers, and 15 students.

         [Footnote 69: Ripert de Monclar, procureur-général, writing
         in 1755, says: "According to the jurisprudence of this
         kingdom, there are no French Protestants, and yet, according
         to the truth of facts, there are three millions. These
         imaginary beings fill the towns, provinces, and rural
         districts, and the capital alone contains sixty thousand of
         them."]

Then followed the death of Antoine Court himself in Switzerland--after watching over the education
and training of preachers at the Lausanne Seminary. Feeling his powers beginning to fail, he
had left Lausanne, and resided at Timonex. There, assisted by his son Court de Gébelin, Professor
of Logic at the College, he conducted an immense correspondence with French Protestants at
home and abroad.

Court's wife died in 1755, to his irreparable loss. His "Rachel," during his many years of
peril, had been his constant friend and consoler. Unable, after her death, to live at Timonex,
so full of cruel recollections, Court returned to Lausanne. He did not long survive his wife's
death. While engaged in writing the history of the Reformed Church of France, he was taken
ill. His history of the Camisards was sent to press, and he lived to revise the first proof-sheets.
But he did not survive to see the book published. He died on the 15th June, 1760, in the sixty-fourth
year of his age.

From the time of Court's death--indeed from the time that Court left France to settle at Lausanne--Paul
Rabaut continued to be looked upon as the leader and director of the proscribed Huguenot Church.
Rabaut originally belonged to Bedarieux in Languedoc. He was a great friend of Pradel's. Rabaut
served the Church at Nismes, and Pradel at Uzes. Both spent two years at Lausanne in 1744-5.
Court entertained the highest affection for Rabaut, and regarded him as his successor. And
indeed he nobly continued the work which Court had begun.

Besides being zealous, studious, and pious, Rabaut was firm, active, shrewd, and gentle. He
stood strongly upon moral force. Once, when the Huguenots had become more than usually provoked
by the persecutions practised on them, they determined to appear armed at the assemblies. Rabaut
peremptorily forbade it. If they persevered, he would forsake their meetings. He prevailed,
and they came armed only with their Bibles.

The directness of Rabaut's character, the nobility of his sentiments, the austerity of his
life, and his heroic courage, evidently destined him as the head of the work which Court had
begun. Antoine Court! Paul Rabaut! The one restored Protestantism in France, the other rooted
and established it.

Rabaut's enthusiasm may be gathered from the following extract of a letter which he wrote to
a friend at Geneva: "When I fix my attention upon the divine fire with which, I will not say
Jesus Christ and the Apostles, but the Reformed and their immediate successors, burned for
the salvation of souls, it seems to me that, in comparison with them, we are ice. Their immense
works astound me, and at the same time cover me with confusion. What would I not give to resemble
them in everything laudable!"

Rabaut had the same privations, perils, and difficulties to undergo as the rest of the pastors
in the Desert. He had to assume all sorts of names and disguises while he travelled through
the country, in order to preach at the appointed places. He went by the names of M. Paul, M.
Denis, M. Pastourel, and M. Theophile; and he travelled under the disguises of a common labourer,
a trader, a journeyman, and a baker.

He was condemned to death, as a pastor who preached in defiance of the law; but his disguises
were so well prepared, and the people for whom he ministered were so faithful to him, that
the priests and other spies never succeeded in apprehending him. Singularly enough, he was
in all other respects in favour of the recognition of legal authority, and strongly urged his
brethren never to adopt any means whatever of forcibly resisting the King's orders.

Many of the military commanders were becoming disgusted with the despicable and cowardly business
which the priests called upon them to do. Thus, on one occasion, a number of Protestants had
assembled at the house of Paul Rabaut at Nismes, and, while they were on their knees, the door
was suddenly burst open, when a man, muffled up, presented himself, and throwing open his cloak,
discovered the military commandant of the town. "My friends," he said, "you have Paul Rabaut
with you; in a quarter of an hour I shall be here with my soldiers, accompanied by Father ----,
who has just laid the information against you." When the soldiers arrived, headed by the commandant
and the father, of course no Paul Rabaut was to be found.

"For more than thirty years," says one of Paul Rabaut's biographers, "caverns and huts, whence
he was unearthed like a wild animal, were his only habitation. For a long time he dwelt in
a safe hiding-place that one of his faithful guides had provided for him, under a pile of stones
and thorn-bushes. It was discovered at length by a shepherd, and such was the wretchedness
of his condition, that, when he was forced to abandon the place, he still regretted this retreat,
which was more fit for savage beasts than men."

Yet this hut of piled stones was for some time the centre of Protestant affairs in France.
All the faithful instinctively turned to Rabaut when assailed by fresh difficulties and persecutions,
and acted on his advice. He obtained the respect even of the Catholics themselves, because
it was known that he was a friend of peace, and opposed to all risings and rebellions amongst
his people.

Once he had the courage to present a petition to the Marquis de Paulmy, Minister of War, when
changing horses at a post-house between Nismes and Montpellier. Rabaut introduced himself by
name, and the Marquis knew that it was the proscribed pastor who stood before him. He might
have arrested and hanged Rabaut on the spot; but, impressed by the noble bearing of the pastor,
he accepted the petition, and promised to lay it before the king.

CHAPTER XIII

END OF THE PERSECUTIONS--THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.

In the year 1762, the execution of an unknown Protestant at Toulouse made an extraordinary
noise in Europe. Protestant pastors had so often been executed, that the punishment had ceased
to be a novelty. Sometimes they were simply hanged; at other times they were racked, and then
hanged; and lastly, they were racked, had their larger bones broken, and were then hanged.
Yet none of the various tortures practised on the Protestant pastors had up to that time excited
any particular sensation in France itself, and still less in Europe.

Cruelty against French Huguenots was so common a thing in those days, that few persons who
were of any other religion, or of no religion at all, cured anything about it. The Protestants
were altogether outside the law. When a Protestant meeting was discovered and surrounded, and
men, women, and children were at once shot down, no one could call the murderers in question,
because the meetings were illegal. The persons taken prisoners at the meetings were brought
before the magistrates and sentenced to punishments even worse than death. They might be sent
to the galleys, to spend the remainder of their lives amongst thieves, murderers, and assassins.
Women and children found at such meetings might also be sentenced to be imprisoned in the Tour
de Constance. There were even cases of boys of twelve years old having been sent to the galleys
for life, because of having accompanied their parents to "the Preaching."[70]

         [Footnote 70: Athanase Coquerel, "Les Forçats pour la Foi,"
         91.]

The same cruelties were at that time practised upon the common people generally, whether they
were Huguenots or not. The poor creatures, whose only pleasure consisted in sometimes hunting
a Protestant, were so badly off in some districts of France that they even fed upon grass.
The most distressed districts in France were those in which the bishops and clergy were the
principal owners of land. They were the last to abandon slavery, which continued upon their
estates until after the Revolution.

All these abominations had grown up in France, because the people had begun to lose the sense
of individual liberty. Louis XIV. had in his time prohibited the people from being of any religion
different from his own. "His Majesty," said his Prime Minister Louvois, "will not suffer any
person to remain in his kingdom who shall not be of his religion." And Louis XV. continued
the delusion. The whole of the tyrannical edicts and ordinances of Louis XIV. continued to
be maintained.

It was not that Louis XIV. and Louis XV. were kings of any virtue or religion. Both were men
of exceedingly immoral habits. We have elsewhere described Louis XIV., but Louis XV., the Well-beloved,
was perhaps the greatest profligate of the two. Madame de Pompadour, when she ceased to be
his mistress, became his procuress. This infamous woman had the command of the state purse,
and she contrived to build for the sovereign a harem, called the Parc-aux-Cerfs, in the park
of Versailles, which cost the country at least a hundred millions of francs.[71] The number
of young girls taken from Paris to this place excited great public discontent; and though morals
generally were not very high at that time, the debauchery and intemperance of the King (for
he was almost constantly drunk)[72] contributed to alienate the nation, and to foster those
feelings of hatred which broke forth without restraint in the ensuing reign.

         [Footnote 71: "Madame de Pompadour découvrit que Louis XV.
         pourrait lui-même s'amuser à faire l'éducation de ces jeunes
         malheureuses. De petites filles de neuf à douze ans,
         lorsqu'elles avaient attiré les regards de la police par leur
         beauté, étaient enlevées à leurs mères par plusieurs
         artifices, conduites à Versailles, et retenues dans les
         parties les plus élevées et les plus inaccessibles des petits
         appartements du roi.... Le nombre des malheureuses qui
         passèrent successivement à Parc-aux-Cerfs est immense; à leur
         sortie elles étaient mariées à des hommes vils ou crédules
         auxquels elles apportaient une bonne dot. Quelques unes
         conservaient un traitement fort considerable." "Les dépenses
         du Parc-aux-Cerfs, dit Lacratelle, se payaient avec des
         acquits du comptant. Il est difficile de les évaluer; mais il
         ne peut y avoir aucune exagération à affirmer qu'elles
         coûtèrent plus de 100 millions à l'État. Dans quelques
         libelles on les porte jusqu'à un milliard."--SISMONDI,
         Histoire de Française, Brussels, 1844, xx. 153-4. The
         account given by Sismondi of the debauches of this persecutor
         of the Huguenots is very full. It is not given in the "Old
         Court Life of France," recently written by a lady.]

         [Footnote 72: Sismondi, xx. 157.]

In the midst of all this public disregard for virtue, a spirit of ribaldry and disregard for
the sanctions of religion had long been making its appearance in the literature of the time.
The highest speculations which can occupy the attention of man were touched with a recklessness
and power, a brilliancy of touch and a bitterness of satire, which forced the sceptical productions
of the day upon the notice of all who studied, read, or delighted in literature;--for those
were the days of Voltaire, Rousseau, Condorcet, and the great men of "The Encyclopædia."

While the King indulged in his vicious pleasures, and went reeking from his debaucheries to
obtain absolution from his confessors, the persecution of the Protestants went on as before.
Nor was it until public opinion (such as it was) was brought to bear upon the hideous incongruity
that religious persecutions were at once brought summarily to an end.

The last executions of Huguenots in France because of their Protestantism occurred in 1762.
Francis Rochette, a young pastor, twenty-six years old, was laid up by sickness at Montauban.
He recovered sufficiently to proceed to the waters of St. Antonin for the recovery of his health,
when he was seized, together with his two guides or bearers, by the burgess guard of the town
of Caussade. The three brothers Grenier endeavoured to intercede for them; but the mayor of
Caussade, proud of his capture, sent the whole of the prisoners to gaol.

They were tried by the judges of Toulouse on the 18th of February. Rochette was condemned to
be hung in his shirt, his head and feet uncovered, with a paper pinned on his shirt before
and behind, with the words written thereon--"Ministre de la religion prétendue réformée." The
three brothers Grenier, who interfered on behalf of Rochette, were ordered to have their heads
taken off for resisting the secular power; and the two guides, who were bearing the sick Rochette
to St. Antonin for the benefit of the waters, were sent to the galleys for life.

Barbarous punishments such as these were so common when Protestants were the offenders, that
the decision, of the judges did not excite any particular sensation. It was only when Jean
Calas was shortly after executed at Toulouse that an extraordinary sensation was produced--and
that not because Calas was a Protestant, but because his punishment came under the notice of
Voltaire, who exposed the inhuman cruelty to France, Europe, and the world at large.

The reason why Protestant executions terminated with the death of Calas was as follows:--The
family of Jean Calas resided at Toulouse, then one of the most bigoted cities in France. Toulouse
swarmed with priests and monks, more Spanish than French in their leanings. They were great
in relics, processions, and confraternities. While "mealy-mouthed" Catholics in other quarters
were becoming somewhat ashamed of the murders perpetrated during the Massacre of St. Bartholomew,
and were even disposed to deny them, the more outspoken Catholics of Toulouse were even proud
of the feat, and publicly celebrated the great southern Massacre of St. Bartholomew which took
place in 1572. The procession then held was one of the finest church commemorations in the
south; it was followed by bishops, clergy, and the people of the neighbourhood, in immense numbers.

Calas was an old man of sixty-four, and reduced to great weakness by a paralytic complaint.
He and his family were all Protestants excepting one son, who had become a Catholic. Another
of the sons, however, a man of ill-regulated life, dissolute, and involved in pecuniary difficulties,
committed suicide by hanging himself in an outhouse.

On this, the brotherhood of White Penitents stirred up a great fury against the Protestant
family in the minds of the populace. The monks alleged that Jean Calas had murdered his son
because he wished to become a Catholic. They gave out that it was a practice of the Protestants
to keep an executioner to murder their children who wished to abjure the reformed faith, and
that one of the objects of the meetings which they held in the Desert, was to elect this executioner.
The White Penitents celebrated mass for the suicide's soul; they exhibited his figure with
a palm branch in his hand, and treated him as a martyr.

The public mind became inflamed. A fanatical judge, called David, took up the case, and ordered
Calas and his whole family to be sent to prison. Calas was tried by the court of Toulouse.
They tortured the whole family to compel them to confess the murder;[73] but they did not confess.
The court wished to burn the mother, but they ended by condemning the paralytic father to be
broken alive on the wheel.[74] The parliament of Toulouse confirmed the atrocious sentence,
and the old man perished in torments, declaring to the last his entire innocence. The rest
of the family were discharged, although if there had been any truth in the charge for which
Jean Calas was racked to death, they must necessarily have been his accomplices, and equally
liable to punishment.

         [Footnote 73: Sismondi, xx. 328.]

         [Footnote 74: To be broken alive on the wheel was one of the
         most horrible of tortures, a bequest from ages of violence
         and barbarism. It was preserved in France mainly for the
         punishment of Protestants. The prisoner was extended on a St.
         Andrew's cross, with eight notches cut on it--one below each
         arm between the elbow and wrist, another between each elbow
         and the shoulders, one under each thigh, and one under each
         leg. The executioner, armed with a heavy triangular bar of
         iron, gave a heavy blow on each of these eight places, and
         broke the bone. Another blow was given in the pit of the
         stomach. The mangled victim was lifted from the cross and
         stretched on a small wheel placed vertically at one of the
         ends of the cross, his back on the upper part of the wheel,
         his head and feet hanging down. There the tortured creature
         hung until he died. Some lingered five or six hours, others
         much longer. This horrible method of torture was only
         abolished at the French Revolution in 1790.]

The ruined family left Toulouse and made for Geneva, then the head-quarters of Protestants
from the South of France. And here it was that the murder of Jean Calas and the misfortunes
of the Calas family came under the notice of Voltaire, then living at Ferney, near Geneva.

In the midst of the persecutions of the Protestants a great many changes had been going on
in France. Although the clergy had for more than a century the sole control of the religious
education of the people, the people had not become religious. They had become very ignorant
and very fanatical. The upper classes were anything but religious; they were given up for the
most part to frivolity and libertinage. The examples of their kings had been freely followed.
Though ready to do honour to the court religion, the higher classes did not believe in it.
The press was very free for the publication of licentious and immoral books, but not for Protestant
Bibles. A great work was, however, in course of publication, under the editorship of D'Alembert
and Diderot, to which Voltaire, Rousseau, and others contributed, entitled "The Encyclopædia."
It was a description of the entire circle of human knowledge; but the dominant idea which pervaded
it was the utter subversion of religion.

The abuses of the Church, its tyranny and cruelty, the ignorance and helplessness in which
it kept the people, the frivolity and unbelief of the clergy themselves, had already condemned
it in the minds of the nation. The writers in "The Encyclopædia" merely gave expression to
their views, and the publication of its successive numbers was received with rapture. In the
midst of the free publication of obscene books, there had also appeared, before the execution
of Calas, the Marquis de Mirabeau's "Ami des Hommes," Rousseau's "Émile," the "Contrat Social,"
with other works, denying religion of all kinds, and pointing to the general downfall, which
was now fast approaching.

When the Calas family took refuge in Geneva, Voltaire soon heard of their story. It was communicated
to him by M. de Végobre, a French refugee. After he had related it, Voltaire said, "This is
a horrible story. What has become of the family?" "They arrived in Geneva only three days ago."
"In Geneva!" said Voltaire; "then let me see them at once." Madame Calas soon arrived, told
him the whole facts of the case, and convinced Voltaire of the entire innocence of the family.

Voltaire was no friend of the Huguenots. He believed the Huguenot spirit to be a republican
spirit. In his "Siècle de Louis XIV.," when treating of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes,
he affirmed that the Reformed were the enemies of the State; and though he depicted feelingly
the cruelties they had suffered, he also stated clearly that he thought they had deserved them.
Voltaire probably owed his hatred of the Protestants to the Jesuits, by whom he was educated.
He was brought up at the Jesuit College of Louis le Grand, the chief persecutor of the Huguenots.
Voltaire also owed much of the looseness of his principles to his godfather, the Abbé Chateauneuf,
grand-prior of Vendôme, the Abbé de Chalieu, and others, who educated him in an utter contempt
for the doctrines they were appointed and paid to teach. It was when but a mere youth that
Father Lejay, one of Voltaire's instructors, predicted that he would yet be the Coryphæus of
Deism in France.

Nor was Voltaire better pleased with the Swiss Calvinists. He encountered some of the most
pedantic of them while residing at Lausanne and Geneva.[75] At the latter place, he covered
with sarcasm the "twenty-four periwigs"--the Protestant council of the city. They would not
allow him to set up a theatre in Geneva, so he determined to set up one himself at La Chatelaine,
about a mile off, but beyond the Genevese frontier. His object, he professed, was "to corrupt
the pedantic city." The theatre is still standing, though it is now used only as a hayloft.
The box is preserved from which Voltaire cheered the performance of his own and other plays.

         [Footnote 75: While Voltaire lived at Lausanne, one of the
         baillies (the chief magistrates of the city) said to him:
         "Monsieur de Voltaire, they say that you have written against
         the good God: it is very wrong, but I hope He will pardon
         you.... But, Monsieur de Voltaire, take very good care not to
         write against their excellencies of Berne, our sovereign
         lords, for be assured that they will never forgive you."]

But though Voltaire hated Protestantism like every other religion, he also hated injustice.
It was because of this that he took up the case of the Calas family, so soon as he had become
satisfied of their innocence. But what a difficulty he had to encounter in endeavouring to
upset the decision of the judges, and the condemnation of Calas by the parliament of Toulouse.
Moreover, he had to reverse their decision against a dead man, and that man a detested Huguenot.

Nevertheless Voltaire took up the case. He wrote letters to his friends in all parts of France.
He wrote to the sovereigns of Europe. He published letters in the newspapers. He addressed
the Duke de Choiseul, the King's Secretary of State. He appealed to philosophers, to men of
letters, to ladies of the court, and even to priests and bishops, denouncing the sentence pronounced
against Calas,--the most iniquitous, he said, that any court professing to act in the name
of justice had ever pronounced. Ferney was visited by many foreigners, from Germany, America,
England, and Russia; as well as by numerous persons of influence in France. To all these he
spoke vehemently of Calas and his sentence. He gave himself no rest until he had inflamed the
minds of all men against the horrible injustice.

At length, the case of Calas became known all over France, and in fact all over Europe. The
press of Paris rang with it. In the boudoirs and salons, Calas was the subject of conversation.
In the streets, men meeting each other would ask, "Have you heard of Calas?" The dead man had
already become a hero and a martyr!

An important point was next reached. It was decided that the case of Calas should be remitted
to a special court of judges appointed to consider the whole matter. Voltaire himself proceeded
to get up the case. He prepared and revised the memorials, he revised all the pleadings of
the advocates, transforming them into brief, conclusive arguments, sparkling with wit, reason,
and eloquence. The revision of the process commenced. The people held their breaths while it
proceeded.

At length, in the spring of 1766--four years after Calas had been broken to death on the wheel--four
years after Voltaire had undertaken to have the unjust decision of the Toulouse magistrates
and parliament reversed, the court of judges, after going completely over the evidence, pronounced
the judgment to have been entirely unfounded!

The decree was accordingly reversed. Jean Calas was declared to have been innocent. The man
was, however, dead. But in order to compensate his family, the ministry granted 36,000 francs
to Calas's widow, on the express recommendation of the court which reversed the abominable
sentence.[76]

         [Footnote 76: It may be added that, after the reversal of the
         sentence, David, the judge who had first condemned Calas,
         went insane, and died in a madhouse.]

The French people never forgot Voltaire's efforts in this cause. Notwithstanding all his offences
against morals and religion, Voltaire on this occasion acted on his best impulses. Many years
after, in 1778, he visited Paris, where he was received with immense enthusiasm. He was followed
in the streets wherever he went. One day when passing along the Pont Royal, some person asked,
"Who is that man the crowd is following?" "Ne savez vous pas," answered a common woman, "que
c'est le sauveur de Calas!" Voltaire was more touched with this simple tribute to his fame
than with all the adoration of the Parisians.

It was soon found, however, that there were many persons still suffering in France from the
cruelty of priests and judges; and one of these occurred shortly after the death of Calas.
One of the ordinary practices of the Catholics was to seize the children of Protestants and
carry them off to some nunnery to be educated at the expense of their parents. The priests
of Toulouse had obtained a lettre de cachet to take away the daughter of a Protestant named
Sirven, to compel her to change her religion. She was accordingly seized and carried off to
a nunnery. She manifested such reluctance to embrace Catholicism, and she was treated with
such cruelty, that she fled from the convent in the night, and fell into a well, where she
was found drowned.

The prejudices of the Catholic bigots being very much excited about this time by the case of
Calas, blamed the family of Sirven (in the same manner as they had done that of Calas) with
murdering their daughter. Foreseeing that they would be apprehended if they remained, the whole
family left the city, and set out for Geneva. After they left, Sirven was in fact sentenced
to death par contumace. It was about the middle of winter when they set out, and Sirven's wife
died of cold on the way, amidst the snows of the Jura.

On his arrival at Geneva, Sirven stated his case to Voltaire, who took it up as he had done
that of Calas. He exerted himself as before. Advocates of the highest rank offered to conduct
Sirven's case; for public opinion had already made considerable progress. Sirven was advised
to return to Toulouse, and offer himself as a prisoner. He did so. The case was tried with
the same results as before; the advocates, acting under Voltaire's instructions and with his
help, succeeded in obtaining the judges' unanimous decision that Sirven was innocent of the
crime for which he had already been sentenced to death.

After this, there were no further executions of Protestants in France. But what became of the
Huguenots at the galleys, who still continued to endure a punishment from day to day, even
worse than death itself?[77] Although, they were often cut off by fever, starvation, and exposure,
many of them contrived to live on to a considerable age. After the trials of Calas and Sirven,
the punishment of the galleys was evidently drawing to an end. Only two persons were sent to
the galleys during the year in which Pastor Rochette was hanged. But a circumstance came to
light respecting one of the galley-slaves who had been liberated in that very year (1762),
which had the effect of eventually putting an end to the cruelty.

         [Footnote 77: The Huguenots sometimes owed their release from
         the galleys to money payments made by Protestants (but this
         was done secretly), the price of a galley-slave being about a
         thousand crowns; sometimes they owed it to the influence of
         Protestant princes; but never to the voluntary mercy of the
         Catholics. In 1742, while France was at war with England, and
         Prussia was quietly looking on, Antoine Court made an appeal
         to Frederick the Great, and at his intervention with Louis
         XV. thirty galley-slaves were liberated. The Margrave of
         Bayreuth, Culmbach and his wife, the sister of the Great
         Frederick, afterwards visited the galleys at Toulon, and
         succeeded in obtaining the liberation of several
         galley-slaves.]

The punishment was not, however, abolished by Christian feeling, or by greater humanity on
the part of the Catholics; nor was it abolished through the ministers of justice, and still
less by the order of the King. It was put an end to by the Stage! As Voltaire, the Deist, terminated
the hanging of Protestants, so did Fenouillot, the player, put an end to their serving as galley-slaves.
The termination of this latter punishment has a curious history attached to it.

It happened that a Huguenot meeting for worship was held in the neighbourhood of Nismes, on
the first day of January, 1756. The place of meeting was called the Lecque,[78] situated immediately
north of the Tour Magne, from which the greater part of the city has been built. It was a favourable
place for holding meetings; but it was not so favourable for those who wished to escape. The
assembly had scarcely been constituted by prayer, when the alarm was given that the soldiers
were upon them! The people fled on all sides. The youngest and most agile made their escape
by climbing the surrounding rocks.

         [Footnote 78: This secret meeting-place of the Huguenots is
         well known from the engraved picture of Boze.]

Amongst these, Jean Fabre, a young silk merchant of Nismes, was already beyond reach of danger,
when he heard that his father had been made a prisoner. The old man, who was seventy-eight,
could not climb as the others had done, and the soldiers had taken him and were leading him
away. The son, who knew that his father would be sentenced to the galleys for life, immediately
determined, if possible, to rescue him from this horrible fate. He returned to the group of
soldiers who had his father in charge, and asked them to take him prisoner in his place. On
their refusal, he seized his father and drew him from their grasp, insisting upon them taking
himself instead. The sergeant in command at first refused to adopt this strange substitution;
but, conquered at last by the tears and prayers of the son, he liberated the aged man and accepted
Jean Fabre as his prisoner.

Jean Fabre was first imprisoned at Nismes, where he was prevented seeing any of his friends,
including a certain young lady to whom he was about shortly to be married. He was then transferred
to Montpellier to be judged; where, of course, he was condemned, as he expected, to be sent
to the galleys for life. With this dreadful prospect before him, of separation from all that
he loved--from his father, for whom he was about to suffer so much; from his betrothed, who
gave up all hope of ever seeing him again--and having no prospect of being relieved from his
horrible destiny, his spirits failed, and he became seriously ill. But his youth and Christian
resignation came to his aid, and he finally recovered.

The Protestants of Nismes, and indeed of all Languedoc, were greatly moved by the fate of Jean
Fabre. The heroism of his devotion to his parent soon became known, and the name of the volunteer
convict was in every mouth. The Duc de Mirepoix, then governor of the province, endeavoured
to turn the popular feeling to some account. He offered pardon to Fabre and Turgis (who had
been taken prisoner with him) provided Paul Rabaut, the chief pastor of the Desert, a hard-working
and indefatigable man, would leave France and reside abroad. But neither Fabre, nor Rabaut,
nor the Huguenots generally, had any confidence in the mercy of the Catholics, and the proposal
was coldly declined.

Fabre was next sent to Toulon under a strong escort of cavalry. He was there registered in
the class of convicts; his hair was cut close; he was clothed in the ignominious dress of the
galley-slave, and placed in a galley among murderers and criminals, where he was chained to
one of the worst. The dinner consisted of a porridge of cooked beans and black bread. At first
he could not touch it, and preferred to suffer hunger. A friend of Fabre, who was informed
of his starvation, sent him some food more savoury and digestible; but his stomach was in such
a state that he could not eat even that. At length he became accustomed to the situation, though
the place was a sort of hell, in which he was surrounded by criminals in rags, dirt, and vermin,
and, worst of all, distinguished for their abominable vileness of speech. He was shortly after
seized with a serious illness, when he was sent to the hospital, where he found many Huguenot
convicts imprisoned, like himself, because of their religion.[79]

         [Footnote 79: Letter of Jean Fabre, in Athanase Coquerel's
         "Forçats pour la Foi," 201-3.]

Repeated applications were made to Saint-Florentin, the Secretary of State, by Fabre's relatives,
friends, and fellow Protestants for his liberation, but without result. After he had been imprisoned
for some years, a circumstance happened which more than anything else exasperated his sufferings.
The young lady to whom he was engaged had an offer of marriage made to her by a desirable person,
which her friends were anxious that she should accept. Her father had been struck by paralysis,
and was poor and unable to maintain himself as well as his daughter. He urged that she should
give up Fabre, now hopelessly imprisoned for life, and accept her new lover.

Fabre himself was consulted on the subject; his conscience was appealed to, and how did he
decide? It was only after the bitterest struggle, that he determined on liberating his betrothed.
He saw no prospect of his release, and why should he sacrifice her? Let her no longer be bound
up with his fearful fate, but be happy with another if she could.

The young lady yielded, though not without great misgivings. The day for her marriage with
her new lover was fixed; but, at the last moment, she relented. Her faithfulness and love for
the heroic galley-slave had never been shaken, and she resolved to remain constant to him,
to remain unmarried if need be, or to wait for his liberation until death!

It is probable that her noble decision determined Fabre and Fabre's friends to make a renewed
effort for his liberation. At last, after having been more than six years a galley-slave, he
bethought him of a method of obtaining at least a temporary liberty. He proposed--without appealing
to Saint-Florentin, who was the bitter enemy of the Protestants--to get his case made known
to the Duc de Choiseul, Minister of Marine. This nobleman was a just man, and it had been in
a great measure through his influence that the judgment of Calas had been reconsidered and
reversed.

Fabre, while on the rowers' bench, had often met with a M. Johannot, a French Protestant, settled
at Frankfort-on-Maine, to whom he stated his case. It may be mentioned that Huguenot refugees,
on their visits to France, often visited the Protestant prisoners at the galleys, relieved
their wants, and made intercession for them with the outside world. It may also be incidentally
mentioned that this M. Johannot was the ancestor of two well-known painters and designers,
Alfred and Tony, who have been the illustrators of some of our finest artistic works.

Johannot made the case of Fabre known to some French officers whom he met at Frankfort, interested
them greatly in his noble character and self-sacrifice, and the result was that before long
Fabre obtained, directly from the Duc de Choiseul, leave of absence from the position of galley-slave.
The annoyance of Saint-Florentin, Minister of State, was so well-known, that Fabre, on his
liberation, was induced to conceal himself. Nor could he yet marry his promised wife, as he
had not been discharged, but was only on leave of absence; and Saint-Florentin obstinately
refused to reverse the sentence that had been pronounced against him.

In the meantime, Fabre's name was becoming celebrated. He had no idea, while privately settled
at Ganges as a silk stocking maker, that great people in France were interesting themselves
about his fate. The Duchesse de Grammont, sister of the Duc de Choiseul, had heard about him
from her brother; and the Prince de Beauvau, governor of Languedoc, the Duchesse de Villeroy,
and many other distinguished personages, were celebrating his heroism.

Inquiry was made of the sergeant who had originally apprehended Fabre, upon his offering himself
in exchange for his father (long since dead), and the sergeant confirmed the truth of the noble
and generous act. At the same time, M. Alison, first consul at Nismes, confirmed the statement
by three witnesses, in presence of the secretary of the Prince de Beauvau. The result was,
that Jean Fabre was completely exonerated from the charge on account of which he had been sent
to the galleys. He was now a free man, and at last married the young lady who had loved him
so long and so devotedly.

One day, to his extreme surprise, Fabre received from the Duc de Choiseul a packet containing
a drama, in which he found his own history related in verse, by Fenouillot de Falbaire. It
was entitled "The Honest Criminal." Fabre had never been a criminal, except in worshipping
God according to his conscience, though that had for nearly a hundred years been pronounced
a crime by the law of France.

The piece, which was of no great merit as a tragedy, was at first played before the Duchesse
de Villeroy and her friends, with great applause, Mdlle. Clairon playing the principal female
part. Saint-Florentin prohibited the playing of the piece in public, protesting to the last
against the work and the author. Voltaire played it at Ferney, and Queen Marie Antoinette had
it played in her presence at Versailles. It was not until 1789 that the piece was played in
the theatres of Paris, when it had a considerable success.

We do not find that any Protestants were sent to be galley-slaves after 1762, the year that
Calas was executed. A reaction against this barbarous method of treating men for differences
of opinion seems to have set in; or, perhaps, it was because most men were ceasing to believe
in the miraculous powers of the priests, for which the Protestants had so long been hanged
and made galley-slaves.

After the liberation of Fabre in 1762, other galley-slaves were liberated from time to time.
Thus, in the same year, Jean Albiges and Jean Barran were liberated after eight years of convict
life. They had been condemned for assisting at Protestant assemblies. Next year, Maurice was
liberated; he had been condemned for life for the same reason.

While Voltaire had been engaged in the case of Calas he asked the Duc de Choiseul for the liberation
of a galley-slave. The man for whom he interceded, had been a convict twenty years for attending
a Protestant meeting. Of course, Voltaire cared nothing for his religion, believing Catholicism
and Protestantism to be only two forms of the same superstition. The name of this galley-slave
was Claude Chaumont. Like nearly all the other convicts he was a working man--a little dark-faced
shoemaker. Some Protestant friends he had at Geneva interceded with Voltaire for his liberation.

On Chaumont's release in 1764, he waited upon his deliverer to thank him. "What!" said Voltaire,
on first seeing him, "my poor little bit of a man, have they put you in the galleys? What could
they have done with you? The idea of sending a little creature to the galley-chain, for no
other crime than that of praying to God in bad French!"[80] Voltaire ended by handing the impoverished
fellow a sum of money to set him up in the world again, when he left the house the happiest of men.

         [Footnote 80: "Voltaire et les Genevois," par J. Gaberel,
         74-5.]

We may briefly mention a few of the last of the galley-slaves. Daniel Bic and Jean Cabdié,
liberated in 1764, for attending religious meetings. Both were condemned for life, and had
been at the galley-chain for ten years.

Jean Pierre Espinas, an attorney, of St. Felix de Châteauneuf, in Viverais, who had been condemned
for life for having given shelter to a pastor, was released in 1765, at the age of sixty-seven,
after being chained at the galleys for twenty-five years.

Jean Raymond, of Fangères, the father of six children, who had been a galley-slave for thirteen
years, was liberated in 1767. Alexandre Chambon, a labourer, more than eighty years old, condemned
for life in 1741, for attending a religious meeting, was released in 1769, on the entreaty
of Voltaire, after being a galley-slave for twenty-eight years. His friends had forgotten him,
and on his release he was utterly destitute and miserable.[81]

         [Footnote 81: "Lettres inédites des Voltaire," publiées par
         Athanase Coquerel fils, 247.]

In 1772, three galley-slaves were liberated from their chains. André Guisard, a labourer, aged
eighty-two, Jean Roque, and Louis Tregon, of the same class, all condemned for life for attending
religious meetings. They had all been confined at the chain for twenty years.

The two last galley-slaves were liberated in 1775, during the first year of the reign of Louis
XVI., and close upon the outbreak of the French Revolution. They had been quite forgotten,
until Court de Gébelin, son of Antoine Court, discovered them. When he applied for their release
to M. de Boyne, Minister of Marine, he answered that there were no more Protestant convicts
at the galleys; at least, he believed so. Shortly after, Turgot succeeded Boyne, and application
was made to him. He answered that there was no need to recommend such objects to him for liberation,
as they were liberated already.

On the two old men being told they were released, they burst into tears; but were almost afraid
of returning to the world which no longer knew them. One of them was Antoine Rialle, a tailor
of Aoste, in Dauphiny, who had been condemned by the parliament of Grenoble to the galleys
for life "for contravening the edicts of the King concerning religion." He was seventy-eight
years old, and had been a galley-slave for thirty years.

The other, Paul Achard, had been a shoemaker of Châtillon, also in Dauphiny. He was condemned
to be a galley-slave for life by the parliament of Grenoble, for having given shelter to a
pastor. Achard had also been confined at the galleys for thirty years.

It is not known when the last Huguenot women were liberated from the Tour de Constance, at
Aiguesmortes. It would probably be about the time when the last Huguenots were liberated from
the galleys. An affecting picture has been left by an officer who visited the prison at the
release of the last prisoners. "I accompanied," he says, "the Prince de Beauvau (the intendant
of Languedoc under Louis XVI.) in a survey which he made of the coast. Arriving at Aiguesmortes,
at the gate of the Tour de Constance, we found at the entrance the principal keeper, who conducted
us by dark steps through a great gate, which opened with an ominous noise, and over which was
inscribed a motto from Dante--'Lasciate ogni speranza voi che'ntrate.'

"Words fail me to describe the horror with which we regarded a scene to which we were so unaccustomed--a
frightful and affecting picture, in which the interest was heightened by disgust. We beheld
a large circular apartment, deprived of air and of light, in which fourteen females still languished
in misery. It was with difficulty that the Prince smothered his emotion; and doubtless it was
the first time that these unfortunate creatures had there witnessed compassion depicted upon
a human countenance; I still seem to behold the affecting apparition. They fell at our feet,
bathed in tears, and speechless, until, emboldened by our expressions of sympathy, they recounted
to us their sufferings. Alas! all their crime consisted in having been attached to the same
religion as Henry IV. The youngest of these martyrs was more than fifty years old. She was
but eight when first imprisoned for having accompanied her mother to hear a religious service,
and her punishment had continued until now!"[82]

         [Footnote 82: Froissard, "Nismes et ses Environs," ii. 217.]

After the liberation of the last of the galley-slaves there were no further apprehensions nor
punishments of Protestants. The priests had lost their power; and the secular authority no
longer obeyed their behests. The nation had ceased to believe in them; in some places they
were laughed at; in others they were detested. They owed this partly to their cruelty and intolerance,
partly to their luxury and self-indulgence amidst the poverty of the people, and partly to
the sarcasms of the philosophers, who had become more powerful in France than themselves. "It
is not enough," said Voltaire, "that we prove intolerance to be horrible; we must also prove
to the French that it is ridiculous."

In looking back at the sufferings of the Huguenots remaining in France since the Revocation
of the Edict of Nantes; at the purity, self-denial, honesty, and industry of their lives; at
the devotion with which they adhered to religious duty and the worship of God; we cannot fail
to regard them--labourers and peasants though they were--as amongst the truest, greatest, and
worthiest heroes of their age. When society in France was falling to pieces; when its men and
women were ceasing to believe in themselves and in each other; when the religion of the State
had become a mass of abuse, consistent only in its cruelty; when the debauchery of its kings[83]
had descended through the aristocracy to the people, until the whole mass was becoming thoroughly
corrupt; these poor Huguenots seem to have been the only constant and true men, the only men
holding to a great idea, for which they were willing to die--for they were always ready for
martyrdom by the rack, the gibbet, or the galleys, rather than forsake the worship of God freely
and according to conscience.

         [Footnote 83: Such was the dissoluteness of the manners of
         the court, that no less than 500,000,000 francs of the public
         debt, or £20,000,000 sterling, had been incurred for expenses
         too ignominious to bear the light, or even to be named in the
         public accounts. It appears from an authentic document,
         quoted in Soulavie's history, that in the sixteen months
         immediately preceding the death of Louis XV., Madame du Barry
         (originally a courtesan,) had drawn from the royal treasury
         no less than 2,450,000 francs, or equal to about £200,000 of
         our present money. ["Histoire de la Décadence de la Monarchie
         Française," par Soulavie l'Aîné, iii. 330.] "La corruption,"
         says Lacretelle, "entrait dans les plus paisibles ménages,
         dans les familles les plus obscures. Elle [Madame du Barri]
         était savamment et longtemps combinée par ceux qui servaient
         les débauches de Louis. Des émissaires étaient employées à
         séduire des filles qui n'étaient point encore nubiles, à
         combattre dans de jeunes femmes des principes de pudeur et de
         fidélité. Amant de grade, il livrait à la prostitution
         publique celles de ses sujettes qu'il avait prématurement
         corrompues. Il souffrait que les enfans de ses infâmes
         plaisirs partageassent la destinée obscure et dangereuse de
         ceux qu'un père n'avoue point." LACRETELLE, Histoire de
         France pendant le xviii Siècle, iii. 171-173.]

But their persecution was now in a great measure at an end. It is true the Protestants were
not recognised, but they nevertheless held their worship openly, and were not interfered with.
When Louis XVI. succeeded to the throne in 1774, on the administration of the oath for the
extermination of heretics denounced by the Church, the Archbishop of Toulouse said to him:
"It is reserved for you to strike the final blow against Calvinism in your dominions. Command
the dispersion of the schismatic assemblies of the Protestants, exclude the sectarians, without
distinction, from all offices of the public administration, and you will insure among your
subjects the unity of the true Christian religion."

No attention was paid to this and similar appeals for the restoration of intolerance. On the
contrary, an Edict of Toleration was issued by Louis XVI. in 1787, which, though granting a
legal existence to the Protestants, nevertheless set forth that "The Catholic, Apostolic, and
Roman religion alone shall continue to enjoy the right of public worship in our realm."

Opinion, however, moved very fast in those days. The Declaration of Rights of 1789 overthrew
the barriers which debarred the admission of Protestants to public offices. On the question
of tolerance, Rabaut Saint-Etienne, son of Paul Rabaut, who sat in the National Assembly for
Nismes, insisted on the freedom of the Protestants to worship God after their accustomed forms.
He said he represented a constituency of 360,000, of whom 120,000 were Protestants. The penal
laws against the worship of the Reformed, he said, had never been formally abolished. He claimed
the rights of Frenchmen for two millions of useful citizens. It was not toleration he asked
for, it was liberty.

"Toleration!" he exclaimed; "sufferance! pardon! clemency! ideas supremely unjust towards the
Protestants, so long as it is true that difference of religion, that difference of opinion,
is not a crime! Toleration! I demand that toleration should be proscribed in its turn, and
deemed an iniquitous word, dealing with us as citizens worthy of pity, as criminals to whom
pardon is to be granted!"[84]

         [Footnote 84: "History of the Protestants of France," by G.
         de Félice, book v. sect. i.]

The motion before the House was adopted with a modification, and all Frenchmen, without distinction
of religious opinions, were declared admissible to all offices and employments. Four months
later, on the 15th March, 1790, Rabaut Saint-Etienne himself, son of the long proscribed pastor
of the Desert, was nominated President of the Constituent Assembly, succeeding to the chair
of the Abbé Montesquieu.

He did not, however, occupy the position long. In the struggles of the Convention he took part
with the Girondists, and refused to vote for the death of Louis XVI. He maintained an obstinate
struggle against the violence of the Mountain. His arrest was decreed; he was dragged before
the revolutionary tribunal, and condemned to be executed within twenty-four hours.

The horrors of the French Revolution hide the doings of Protestantism and Catholicism alike
for several years, until Buonaparte came into power. He recognised Catholicism as the established
religion, and paid for the maintenance of the bishops and priests. He also protected Protestantism,
the members of which were entitled to all the benefits secured to the other Christian communions,
"with the exception of pecuniary subvention."

The comparative liberty which the Protestants of France had enjoyed under the Republic and
the Empire seemed to be in some peril at the restoration of the Bourbons. The more bigoted
Roman Catholics of the South hailed their return as the precursors of renewed persecution:
and they raised the cry of "Un Dieu, un Roi, une Foi."

The Protestant mayor of Nismes was publicly insulted, and compelled to resign his office. The
mob assembled in the streets and sang ferocious songs, threatening to "make black puddings
of the blood of the Calvinists' children."[85] Another St. Bartholomew was even threatened;
the Protestants began to conceal themselves, and many fled for refuge to the Upper Cevennes.
Houses were sacked, their inmates outraged, and in many cases murdered.

         [Footnote 85: See the Rev. Mark Wilks's "History of the
         Persecutions endured by the Protestants of the South of
         France, 1814, 1815, 1816." Longmans, 1821.]

The same scenes occurred in most of the towns and villages of the department of Gard; and the
authorities seemed to be powerless to prevent them. The Protestants at length began to take
up arms for their defence; the peasantry of the Cevennes brought from their secret places the
rusty arms which their fathers had wielded more than a century before; and another Camisard
war seemed imminent.

In the meantime, the subject of the renewed Protestant persecutions in the South of France
was, in May, 1816, brought under the notice of the British House of Commons by Sir Samuel Romilly--himself
the descendant of a Languedoc Huguenot--in a powerful speech; and although the motion was opposed
by the Government, there can be little doubt that the discussion produced its due effect; for
the Bourbon Government, itself becoming alarmed, shortly after adopted vigorous measures, and
the persecution was brought to an end.

Since that time the Protestants of France have remained comparatively unmolested. Evidences
have not been wanting to show that the persecuting spirit of the priest-party has not become
extinct. While the author was in France in 1870, to visit the scenes of the wars of the Camisards,
he observed from the papers that a French deputy had recently brought a case before the Assembly,
in which a Catholic curé of Ville-d'Avray refused burial in the public cemetery to the corpse
of a young English lady, because she was a Protestant, and remitted it to the place allotted
for criminals and suicides. The body accordingly lay for eighteen days in the cabin of the
gravedigger, until it could be transported to the cemetery of Sèvres, where it was finally
interred.

But the people of France, as well as the government, have become too indifferent about religion
generally, to persecute any one on its account. The nation is probably even now suffering for
its indifference, and the spectacle is a sad one. It is only the old, old story. The sins of
the fathers are being visited on the children. Louis XIV. and the French nation of his time
sowed the wind, and their descendants at the Revolution reaped the whirlwind. And who knows
how much of the sufferings of France during the last few years may have been due to the ferocious
intolerance, the abandonment to vicious pleasures, the thirst for dominion, and the hunger
for "glory," which above all others characterized the reign of that monarch who is in history
miscalled "the Great?"

It will have been noted that the chief scenes of the revival of Protestantism described in
the preceding pages occurred in Languedoc and the South of France, where the chief strength
of the Huguenots always lay. The Camisard civil war which happened there, was not without its
influence. The resolute spirit which it had evoked survived. The people were purified by suffering,
and though they did not conquer civil liberty, they continued to live strong, hardy, virtuous
lives. When Protestantism was at length able to lift up its head after so long a period of
persecution, it was found that, during its long submergence, it had lost neither in numbers,
in moral or intellectual vigour, nor in industrial power.

To this day the Protestants of Languedoc cherish the memory of their wanderings and worshippings
in the Desert; and they still occasionally hold their meetings in the old frequented places.
Not far from Nismes are several of these ancient meeting-places of the persecuted, to which
we have above referred. One of them is about two miles from the city, in the bed of a mountain
torrent. The worshippers arranged themselves along the slopes of the narrow valley, the pastor
preaching to them from the grassy level in the hollow, while sentinels posted on the adjoining
heights gave warning of the approach of the enemy. Another favourite place of meeting was the
hollow of an ancient quarry called the Echo, from which the Romans had excavated much of the
stone used in the building of the city. The congregation seated themselves around the craggy
sides, the preacher's pulpit being placed in the narrow pass leading into the quarry. Notwithstanding
all the vigilance of the sentinels, many persons of both sexes and various ages were often
dragged from the Echo to imprisonment or death. Even after the persecutions had ceased, these
meeting-places continued to be frequented by the Protestants of Nismes, and they were sometimes
attended by five or six thousand persons, and on sacrament days by even double that number.

Although the Protestants of Languedoc for the most part belong to the National Reformed Church,
the independent character of the people has led them to embrace Protestantism in other forms.
Thus, the Evangelical Church is especially strong in the South, whilst the Evangelical Methodists
number more congregations and worshippers in Languedoc than in all the rest of France. There
are also in the Cevennes several congregations of Moravian Brethren. But perhaps one of the
most curious and interesting issues of the Camisard war is the branch of the Society of Friends
still existing in Languedoc--the only representatives of that body in France, or indeed on
the European continent.

When the Protestant peasants of the Cevennes took up arms and determined to resist force by
force, there were several influential men amongst them who kept back and refused to join them.
They held that the Gospel they professed did not warrant them in taking up arms and fighting,
even against the enemies who plundered and persecuted them. And when they saw the excesses
into which the Camisards were led by the war of retaliation on which they had entered, they
were the more confirmed in their view that the attitude which the rebels had assumed, was inconsistent
with the Christian religion.

After the war had ceased, these people continued to associate together, maintaining a faithful
testimony against war, refusing to take oaths, and recognising silent worship, without dependence
on human acquirements. They were not aware of the existence of a similar body in England and
America until the period of the French Revolution, when some intercourse began to take place
between them.

In 1807, Stephen Grellet, an American Friend, of French origin, visited Languedoc, and held
many religious meetings in the towns and villages of the Lower Cevennes, which were not only
attended by the Friends of Congenies, St. Hypolite, Granges, St. Grilles, Fontane's, Vauvert,
Quissac, and other places in the neighbourhood of Nismes, but by the inhabitants at large,
Roman Catholics as well as Protestants. At that time, as now, Congenies was regarded as the
centre of the district principally inhabited by the Friends, and there they possess a large
and commodious meeting-house, built for the purpose of worship.

At the time of Stephen Grellet's visit, he especially mentioned Louis Majolier as "a father
and a pillar" amongst the little flock.[86] And it may not be unworthy to note that the daughter
of the same Louis Majolier is at the present time one of the most acceptable female preachers
of the Society of Friends in England.

         [Footnote 86: "Life of Stephen Grellet," third edition.
         London, 1870.]

It may also be mentioned, in passing, that there still exist amongst the Vosges mountains the
remnants of an ancient sect--the Anabaptists of Munster--who hold views in many respects similar
to those of the Friends. Amongst other things, they testify against war as unchristian, and
refuse under any circumstances to carry arms. Rather than do so, they have at different times
suffered imprisonment, persecution, and even death. The republic of 1793 respected their scruples,
and did not require the Anabaptists to fight in the ranks, but employed them as pioneers and
drivers, while Napoleon made them look after the wounded on the field of battle, and attend
to the waggon train and ambulances.[87] And we understand that they continue to be similarly
employed down to the present time.

         [Footnote 87: Michel, "Les Anabaptistes des Vosges." Paris,
         1862.]

       *       *       *       *       *

It forms no part of our subject to discuss the present state of the French Protestant Church.
It has lost no part of its activity during the recent political changes. Although its clergy
had for some time been supported by the State, they had not met in public synod until June,
1872, after an interval of more than two hundred years. During that period many things had
become changed. Rationalism had invaded Evangelicalism. Without a synod, or a settled faith,
the Protestant churches were only so many separate congregations, often representing merely
individual interests. In fact, the old Huguenot Church required reorganization; and great results
are expected from the proceedings adopted at the recently held synod of the French Protestant
Church.[88]

         [Footnote 88: The best account of the proceedings at this
         synod is given in Blackwood's Magazine for January, 1873.]

With respect to the French Catholic Church, its relative position to the Protestants remains
the same as before. But it has no longer the power to persecute. The Gallican Church has been
replaced by the Ultramontane Church, but its impulses are no kindlier, though it has become
"Infallible."

The principal movement of the Catholic priests of late years has been to get up appearances
of the Virgin. The Virgin appears, usually, to a child or two, and pilgrimages are immediately
got up to the scene of her visit. By getting up religious movements of this kind, the priests
and their followers believe that France will yet be helped towards the Revanche, which she
is said to long for.

But pilgrimages will not make men; and if France wishes to be free, she will have to adopt
some other methods. Bismarck will never be put down by pilgrimages. It was a sad saying of
Father Hyacinthe at Geneva, that "France is bound to two influences--Superstition and Irreligion."

When Louis XIV. revoked the Edict of Nantes, he issued a number of decrees or edicts for the
purpose of stamping out Protestantism in France. Each decree had the effect of an Act of Parliament.
Louis combined in himself the entire powers of the State. The King's word was law. "L'état
c'est Moi" was his maxim.

The Decrees which Louis issued were tyrannical, brutal, and cowardly. Some were even ludicrous
in their inhumanity. Thus Protestant grooms were forbidden to give riding-lessons; Protestant
barbers were forbidden to cut hair; Protestant washerwomen were forbidden to wash clothes;
Protestant servants were forbidden to serve either Roman Catholic or Protestant mistresses.
They must all be "converted." A profession of the Roman Catholic faith was required from simple
artisans--from shoemakers, tailors, masons, carpenters, and such-like--before they were permitted
to labour at their respective callings.

The cruelty went further. Protestants were forbidden to be employed as librarians and printers.
They could not even be employed as labourers upon the King's highway. They could not serve
in any public office whatever. They were excluded from the collection of the taxes, and from
all government departments. Protestant apothecaries must shut up their shops. Protestant advocates
were forbidden to plead before the courts. Protestant doctors were forbidden to practise medicine
and surgery. The sages-femmes must necessarily be of the Roman Catholic religion.

The cruelty was extended to the family. Protestant parents were forbidden to instruct their
children in their own faith. They were enjoined, under a heavy penalty, to have their children
baptized by the Roman Catholic priest, and brought up in the Roman Catholic religion. When
the law was disobeyed, the priests were empowered to seize and carry off the children, and
educate them, at the expense of the parents, in monasteries and nunneries.

Then, as regards the profession of the Protestant religion:--It was decreed by the King, that
all the Protestant temples in France should be demolished, or converted to other uses. Protestant
pastors were ordered to quit the country within fifteen days after the date of the Revocation
of the Edict of Nantes. If found in the country after that period, they were condemned to death.
A reward of five thousand five hundred livres was offered for the apprehension of any Protestant
pastor. When apprehended he was hung. Protestant worship was altogether prohibited. If any
Protestants were found singing psalms, or engaged in prayer, in their own houses, they were
liable to have their entire property confiscated, and to be sent to the galleys for life.

These monstrous decrees were carried into effect--at a time when France reigned supreme in
the domain of intellect, poetry, and the arts--in the days of Racine, Corneille, Molière--of
Bossuet, Bourdaloue, and Fénélon. Louis XIV. had the soldier, the hangman, and the priest at
his command; but they all failed him. They could imprison, they could torture, they could kill,
they could make the Protestants galley-slaves; they could burn their Bibles, and deprive them
of everything that they valued; but the impregnable rights of conscience defied them.

The only thing left for the Protestants was to fly from France in all directions. They took
refuge in Switzerland, Germany, Holland, and England. The flight from France had begun before
the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, but after that act the flight rapidly increased. Not
less than a million of persons are supposed to have escaped from France in consequence of the
Revocation.

Steps were, however, taken by the King to stop the emigration. He issued a decree ordering
that the property and goods of all those Protestants who had already escaped should be confiscated
to the Crown, unless they returned within three months from the date of the Revocation. Then,
with respect to the Protestants who remained in France, he decreed that all Frenchmen found
attempting to escape were to be sent to the galleys for life; and that all Frenchwomen found
attempting to escape were to be imprisoned for life. The spies who denounced the fugitive Protestants
were rewarded by the apportionment of half their goods.

This decree was not, however, considered sufficiently severe, and it was shortly after followed
by another, proclaiming that any captured fugitives, as well as any person found acting as
their guide, should be condemned to death. Another royal decree was issued respecting those
fugitives who attempted to escape by sea.

These measures, however, did not seem to have the effect of "converting" the French Protestants.
The Dragonnades were next resorted to. Louis XIV. was pleased to call the dragoons his Booted
Missionaries, ses missionnaires bottés. The dragonnades are said to have been the invention
of Michel de Marillac, whose name will doubtless descend to infamous notoriety, like those
of Catherine de Médicis, the Guises, and the authors of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew.

Yet there was not much genius displayed in the invention of the Dragonnades. It merely consisted
in this: whenever it was found that a town abounded with Huguenots, the dragoons, hussars,
and troops of various kinds were poured into it, and quartered on the inhabitants. Twenty,
thirty, or forty were quartered together, according to the size of the house. They occupied
every room; they beat their drums and blew their trumpets; they smoked, drank, and swore, without
any regard to the infirm, the sick, or the dying, until the inmates were "converted."

The whole army of France was let loose upon the Huguenots. They had been beaten out of Holland
by the Dutch Calvinists; and they could now fearlessly take their revenge out of their unarmed
Huguenot fellow-countrymen. Whenever they quartered themselves in a dwelling, it was, for the
time being, their own. They rummaged the cellars, drank the wines, ordered the best of everything,
pillaged the house, and treated everybody who belonged to it as a slave. The Huguenots were
not only compelled to provide for the entertainment of their guests, but to pay them their
wages. The superior officers were paid fifteen francs a day, the lieutenants nine francs, and
the common soldiers three francs. If the money was not paid, the household furniture, the horses
and cows, and all the other articles that could be seized, were publicly sold.

No wonder that so many Huguenots were "converted" by the dragoons. Forty thousand persons were
converted in Poitou. The regiment of Asfeld was the instrument of their conversion. A company
and a half of dragoons occupied the house of a single lady at Poitiers until she was converted
to the Roman Catholic faith. What bravery!

The Huguenots of Languedoc were amongst the most obstinate of all. They refused to be converted
by the priests; and then Louis XIV. determined to dragonnade them. About sixty thousand troops
were concentrated on the province. Noailles, the governor, shortly after wrote to the King
that he had converted the city of Nismes in twenty-four hours. Twenty thousand converts had
been made in Montauban; and he promised that by the end of the month there would be no more
Huguenots left in Languedoc.

Many persons were doubtless converted by force, or by the fear of being dragonnaded; but there
were also many more who were ready to run all risks rather than abjure their faith. Of those
who abjured, the greater number took the first opportunity of flying from France, by land or
by sea, and taking refuge in Switzerland, Germany, Holland, or England. Many instances might
be given of the heroic fortitude with which the Huguenots bore the brutality of their enemies;
but, for the present, it may be sufficient to mention the case of the De Péchels of Montauban.

The citizens of Montauban had been terribly treated before and after the Revocation of the
Edict of Nantes. The town had been one of the principal Huguenot places of refuge in France.
Hence its population was principally Protestant. Its university had been shut up. Its churches
had been levelled to the ground. Its professors and pastors had been banished from France.
And now it was to be dragonnaded.

The town was filled with troops, who were quartered on the Protestants. One of the burgesses
called upon the Intendant, threw himself at his feet, and prayed to be delivered from the dragoons.
"On one condition only!" replied Dubois, "that you become a Catholic." "I cannot," said the
townsman, "because, if the Sultan quartered twenty janissaries on me, I might, for the same
reason, be forced to become a Turk."

Although many of the townsmen pretended to be converted, the Protestant chiefs held firm to
their convictions, and resisted all persuasions, promises, and threats, to induce them to abjure
their religion. Amongst them were Samuel de Péchels de la Boissonade and the Marquise de Sabonnières,
his wife, who, in the midst of many trials and sorrows, preferred to do their duty to every
other consideration.

The family of De Péchels had long been settled at Montauban. Being regarded as among the heads
of the Protestant party in Montauban, they were marked out by the King's ministers for the
most vigorous treatment. When the troops entered the town on the 20th of August, 1685, they
treated the inhabitants as if the town had been taken by assault. The officers and soldiers
vied with each other in committing acts of violence. They were sanctioned by the magistrate,
who authorised their excesses, in conformity with the King's will. Tumult and disorder prevailed
everywhere. Houses were broken into. Persons of the reformed religion, without regard to age,
sex, or condition, were treated with indignity. They were sworn at, threatened, and beaten.
Their families were turned out of doors. Every room in the house was entered and ransacked
of its plate, silk, linen, and clothes. When the furniture was too heavy to be carried away,
it was demolished. The mirrors were slashed with swords, or shot at with pistols. In short,
so far as regarded their household possessions, the greater number of the Protestants were
completely ruined.

Samuel de Péchels de la Boissonade had no fewer than thirty-eight dragoons and fusiliers quartered
upon him. It was intended at first to quarter these troopers on Roupeiroux, the King's adjutant;
but having promptly changed his religion to avoid the horrors of the dragonnade, they were
removed to the house of De Péchels, and he was ordered by Chevalier Duc, their commander, to
pay down the money which he had failed to get from Roupeiroux, during the days that the troopers
should have occupied his house. De Péchels has himself told the story of his sufferings, and
we proceed to quote his own words:--

"Soon after," he says, "my house was filled with officers, troopers, and their horses, who
took possession of every room with such unfeeling harshness that I could not reserve a single
one for the use of my family; nor could I make these unfeeling wretches listen to my declaration
that I was ready to give up all that I possessed without resistance. Doors were broken open,
boxes and cupboards forced. They liked better to carry off what belonged to me in this violent
manner than to take the keys which my wife and I, standing on either side, continued to offer.
The granaries served for the reception of their horses among the grain and meal, which the
wretches, with the greatest barbarity, made them trample underfoot. The very bread destined
for my little children, like the rest, was contemptuously trodden down by the horses.

"Nothing could stop the brutality of these madmen. I was thrust out into the street with my
wife, now very near her confinement, and four very young children, taking nothing with me but
a little cradle and a small supply of linen, for the babe whose birth was almost momentarily
expected. The street being full of people, diverted at seeing us thus exposed, we were delayed
some moments near the door, during which we were pitilessly drenched by the troopers, who amused
themselves at the windows with emptying upon our heads pitchers of water, to add to their enjoyment
of our sad condition.

"From this moment I gave up both house and goods to be plundered, without having in view any
place of refuge but the street, ill suited, it must be owned, for such a purpose, and especially
so to a woman expecting her confinement hourly, and to little children of too tender an age
to make their own way--some of them, indeed, being unable to walk or speak--and having no hope
but in the mercy of God and His gracious protection."

De Péchels proceeded to the house of Marshal Boufflers, commander of the district, thinking
it probable that a man of honour, such as he was supposed to be, would discourage such barbarities,
and place the dragoons under some sort of military control. But no! The Marshal could not be
found. He carefully kept out of the way of all Protestant complainants. De Péchels, however,
met Chevalier Duc, who commanded the soldiers that had turned him out of his house. In answer
to the expostulations of De Péchels, the Chevalier gave him to understand that the same treatment
would be continued unless he "changed his religion." "Then," answered De Péchels, "by God's
help I never will."

At length, when De Péchels' house had been thoroughly stripped, and the dragoons had decamped
elsewhere, he received an order to return, in order to entertain another detachment of soldiers.
The criminal judge, who had possession of the keys, entered the house, and found it in extreme
disorder. "I was obliged to remain in it," says De Péchels, "amidst dirt and vermin, in obedience
to the Intendant's orders, reiterated in the strictest manner by the criminal judge, that I
should await the arrival of a fresh party of lodgers, who accordingly came on the day following."

The new party consisted of six soldiers of the regiment of fusiliers, who called themselves
simply "missionaries," as distinct from the "booted missionaries" who had just left. They were
savage at not finding anything to plunder, their predecessors having removed everything in
the shape of booty. The fusiliers were shortly followed by six soldiers of Dampier's regiment,
who were still more ferocious. They gave De Péchels and his wife no peace day or night; they
kept the house in a constant uproar; swore and sang obscene songs, and carried their insolence
to the utmost pitch. At length De Péchels was forced to quit the house, on account of his wife,
who was near the time of her confinement. These are his own words:--

"For a long time we were wandering through the streets, no one daring to offer us an asylum,
as the ordinance of the Intendant imposed a fine of four or five hundred livres[89] upon any
one who should receive Protestants into their houses. My mother's house had long been filled
with soldiers, as well as that of my sister De Darassus; and not knowing where to go, I suffered
great agony of mind for fear my poor wife should give birth to her infant in the street. In
this lamentable plight, the good providence of God led us to the house of Mdlle. de Guarrison,
my wife's sister, from whence, most fortunately, a large number of soldiers, with their officers,
were issuing. They had occupied it for some time, and had allowed the family no rest. Now they
were changing their quarters, to continue their lawless mission in some country town. The stillness
of the house after their departure induced us to enter it at once, and hardly had my wife accepted
the bed Mdlle. de Guarrison offered her, than she was happily delivered of a daughter, blessed
be God, who never leaves Himself without a witness to those who fear His name.

         [Footnote 89: The French livre was worth three francs, or
         about two shillings and sixpence English money.]

"That same evening a great number of soldiers arrived, and took up their quarters in M. de
Guarrison's house, and two days after, this burden was augmented by the addition of a colonel,
a captain, and two lieutenants, with a large company of soldiers and several servants, all
of whom conducted themselves with a degree of violence scarcely to be described. They had no
regard for the owners of the house, but robbed them with impunity. They had no pity for my
poor wife, weak and ill as she was; nor for the helpless children, who suffered much under
these miserable conditions.

"Officers, soldiers, and servants pillaged the house with odious rivalry, took possession of
all the rooms, drove out the owners, and obliged the poor sick woman (by their continual threats
and abominable conduct) to get up and try to retire to some other place. She crept into the
courtyard, where, with her infant, she was detained in the cold for a long time by the soldiers,
who would not allow her to quit the premises. At length, however, my poor wife got into the
street, still, however, guarded by soldiers, who would not allow her to go out of their sight,
or to speak with any one. She complained to the Intendant of their cruel ways, but instead
of procuring her any relief, he aggravated her affliction, ordering the soldiers to keep strict
watch over her, never to leave her, and to inform him with what persons she found a refuge,
that he might make them pay the penalty."

De Péchels' wife was thus under the necessity of sleeping, with her babe and her children,
in the street. After all was quiet, they sought for a door-step, and lay down for the night
under the stars.

Madame de Péchels at length found temporary shelter. Mademoiselle de Delada, a friend of the
Intendant, touched by the poor woman's sad condition, implored the magistrate's permission
to give her refuge; and being a well-known Roman Catholic, she was at length permitted to take
Madame de Péchels and her babe into her house, but on condition that four soldiers should still
keep her in view. She remained there for a short time, until she was able to leave her bed,
when she was privily removed to a country house belonging to Mademoiselle de Delada, not far
from the town of Montauban.

To return to Samuel de Péchels. His house was still overflowing with soldiers. They proceeded
to wreck what was left of his household effects; they carried off and sold his papers and his
library, which was considerable. Some of the soldiers of Dampier's regiment carried off in
a sack a pair of brass chimney dogs, the shovel and tongs, a grate, and some iron spits, the
wretched remains of his household furniture. They proceeded to lay waste his farms and carry
off his cattle, selling the latter by public auction in the square. They next pulled down his
house, and sold the materials. After this, ten soldiers were quartered in a neighbouring tavern,
at De Péchels' expense. Not being able to pay the expenses, the Intendant sent some archers
to him to say that he would be carried off to prison unless he changed his religion. To that
proposal he answered, as before, that "by the help of God he would never make that change,
and that he was quite prepared to go to any place to which his merciful Saviour might lead him."

He was accordingly taken, into custody, and placed, for a time, in the Royal Château. On the
same day, his sister De Darassus was committed to prison. Still holding steadfast by his faith,
De Péchels was, after a month's imprisonment at Montauban, removed to the prison of Cahors,
where he was put into the lowest dungeon. "By the grace of my Saviour," said he, "I strengthened
myself more in my determination to die rather than renounce the truth."

After lying for more than three months in the dampest mould of the lowest dungeon in the prison
of Cahors, and being still found immovable in his faith, De Péchels was ordered to be taken
to the citadel of Montpellier, to wait there until he could be transported to America. His
wife, the Marquise de Sabonnières, having heard of his condemnation (though he was never tried),
determined to see him before he left France for ever. The road from Cahors to Montpellier did
not pass through Montauban, but a few miles to the east of it. Having spent the night in prayer
to God, that He might endow her with firmness to sustain the trials of a scene, which was as
heroic in her as it was touching to those who witnessed it, she went forth in the morning to
wait along the roadside for the arrival of the illustrious body of prisoners, who were on their
way, some to the galleys, some to banishment, some to imprisonment, and some to death.

At length the glorious band arrived. They were chained two and two. They were for the most
part ladies and gentlemen who had refused to abjure their religion. Among them were M. Desparvés,
a gentleman from the neighbourhood of Laitoure, old and blind, led by his wife; M. de la Rességuerie,
of Montauban, and many more. Madame de Péchels implored leave of the guard who conducted the
prisoners to have an interview with her husband. It was granted. She had been supplied with
the fortitude for which she had so ardently and piously prayed to God during the whole of the
past night. It seemed as if some supernatural power had prompted the discourse with her husband,
which softened the hearts of those who, up to that time, had appeared inaccessible to the sentiments
of humanity. The superintendent allowed the noble couple to pray together; after which they
were separated without the least weakness betraying itself on the part of Madame de Péchels,
who remained unmoved, whilst all the bystanders were melted into tears. The procession of guards
and prisoners then went on its way.

The trials of Madame de Péchels were not yet ended. Though she had parted with her husband,
who was now on his way to banishment, she had still the children with her; and, cruellest torture
of all! these were now to be torn from her. One evening a devoted friend came to inform her
that a body of men were to arrive next morning and take her children, even the baby from her
breast, and immure them in a convent. She was also informed that she herself was to be seized
and imprisoned.

The intelligence fell like a thunderbolt upon the tender mother. What was she to do? Was she
to abjure her religion? She prayed for help from God. Part of the night was thus spent before
she could make up her mind to part from her innocent children, who were to be brought up in
a religion at variance with her own. In any case, a separation was necessary. Could she not
fly, like so many other Protestant women, and live in hopes of better days to come? It was
better to fly from France than encounter the horrors of a French prison. Before she parted
with her children she embraced them while they slept; she withdrew a few steps to tear herself
from them, and again she came back to bid them a last farewell!

At length, urged by the person who was about to give her a refuge in his house, she consented
to follow him. The man was a weaver by trade, and all day long he carried on his work in the
only room which he possessed. Madame de Péchels passed the day in a recess, concealed by the
bed of her entertainers, and in the evening she came out, and the good people supplied her
with what was necessary. She passed six months in this retreat, without any one knowing what
had become of her. It was thought that she had taken refuge in some foreign country.

Numbers of ladies had already been able to make their escape. The frontier was strictly guarded
by troops, police, and armed peasantry. The high-roads as well as the byways were patrolled
day and night, and all the bridges were strongly guarded. But the fugitives avoided the frequented
routes. They travelled at night, and hid themselves during the day. There were Protestant guides
who knew every pathway leading out of France, through forests, wastes, or mountain paths, where
no patrols were on the watch; and they thus succeeded in leading thousands of refugee Protestants
across the frontier. And thus it was that Madame de Péchels was at length enabled, with the
help of a guide, to reach Geneva, one of the great refuges of the Huguenots.

On arrival there she felt the loss of her children more than ever. She offered to the guide
who had conducted her all the money that she possessed to bring her one or other of her children.
The eldest girl, then nine or ten years old, was communicated with, but having already tasted
the pleasure of being her own mistress, she refused the proposal to fly into Switzerland to
join her mother. Her son Jacob was next communicated with. He was seven years old. He was greatly
moved at the name of his mother, and he earnestly entreated to be taken to where she was. The
guide at once proceeded to fulfil his engagement. The boy fled with him from France, passing
for his son. The way was long--some five hundred miles. The journey occupied them about three
weeks. They rested during the day, and travelled at night. They avoided every danger, and at
length the faithful guide was able to place the loving son in the arms of his noble and affectionate
mother.

Samuel de Péchels was condemned to banishment without the shadow of a trial. He could not be
dragooned into denying his faith, and he was therefore imprisoned, preparatory to his expulsion
from France. "I was told," he said, "by the Sieur Raoul, Roqueton (or chief archer) to the
Intendant of Montauban, that if I would not change my religion, he had orders from the King
and the Intendant to convey me to the citadel of Montpellier, from thence to be immediately
shipped for America. My reply was, that I was ready to go forthwith whithersoever it was God's
pleasure to lead me, and that assuredly, by God's help, I would make no change in my religion."

After five months' imprisonment at Cahors, he was taken out and marched, as already related,
to the citadel of Montpellier. The citadel adjoins the Peyrou, a lofty platform of rock, which
commands a splendid panoramic view of the surrounding country. It is now laid out as a pleasure-ground,
though it was then the principal hanging-place of the Languedoc Protestants. Brousson, and
many other faithful pastors of the "Church in the Desert," laid down their lives there. Half-a-dozen
decaying corpses might sometimes be seen swinging from the gibbets on which the ministers had
been hung.

A more bitter fate was, however, reserved for De Péchels. After about a month's imprisonment
in the citadel, he was removed to Aiguesmortes, under the charge of several mounted archers
and foot soldiers. He was accompanied by fourteen Protestant ladies and gentlemen, on their
way to perpetual imprisonment, to the galleys, or to banishment. Aiguesmortes was the principal
fortified dungeon in the south of France, used for the imprisonment of Huguenots who refused
to be converted. It is situated close to the Mediterranean, and is surrounded by lagunes and
salt marshes. It is a most unhealthy place; and imprisonment at Aiguesmortes was considered
a slower but not a less certain death than hanging. Sixteen Huguenot women were confined there
in 1686, and the whole of them died within five months. When the prisoners died off, the place
was at once filled again. The castle of Aiguesmortes was thus used as a prison for nearly a
hundred years.

De Péchels gives the following account of his journey from Montpellier to Aiguesmortes:--"Mounted
on asses, harnessed in the meanest manner, without stirrups, and with wretched ropes for halters,
we entered Aiguesmortes, and were there locked up in the Tower of Constance, with thirty other
male prisoners and twenty women and girls, who had also been brought hither, tied two and two.
The men were placed in an upper apartment of the tower, and the women and girls below, so that
we could hear each other pray to God and sing His praises with a loud voice."

De Péchels did not long remain a prisoner at Aiguesmortes. He was shortly after put on board
a king's ship bound for Marseilles. He was very ill during the voyage, suffering from seasickness
and continual fainting fits. On reaching Marseilles he was confined in the hospital prison
used for common felons and galley-slaves. It was called the Chamber of Darkness, because of
its want of light. The single apartment contained two hundred and thirty prisoners. Some of
them were chained together, two and two; others, three and three. The miserable palliasses
on which they slept had been much worn by the galley-slaves, who had used them during their
illnesses. The women were separated from the men by a linen cloth attached to the ceiling,
which was drawn across every evening, and formed the only partition between them.

As may easily be supposed, the condition of the prisoners was frightful. The swearing of the
common felons was mixed with the prayers of the Huguenots. The guards walked about all night
to keep watch and ward over them. They fell upon any who assembled and knelt together, separating
them and swearing at them, and mercilessly ill-treating them, men and women alike. "But all
their strictness and rage," says De Péchels, "could not prevent one from seeing always, in
different parts of the dungeon, little groups upon their knees, imploring the mercy of God
and singing His praises, whilst others kept near the guards so as to hinder them from interfering
with the little bands of worshippers."

At length the time arrived for the embarkation of the Huguenots for America. On the 18th of
September, 1687, De Péchels, with fifty-eight men and twenty-one women, was put on board a
flûte called the Mary--the French flûte consisting of a heavy narrow-sterned vessel, called
in England a "pink." De Péchels was carefully separated from all with whom he had formed habits
of intimacy, and whose presence near him would doubtless have helped him to bear the bitterness
of his fate. On the same day, ninety prisoners of both sexes were embarked in another ship,
named the Concord, bound for the same destination. The two vessels set sail in the first place
for Toulon, in order to obtain an escort of two ships-of-war.

The voyage was very disastrous. Three hours after the squadron had left Toulon, the Mary was
nearly dashed against a rock, owing to the roughness of the weather. Three days after, a frightful
storm arose, and dashed the prisoners against each other. All were sick; indeed, De Péchels'
malady lasted during the entire voyage. The squadron first cast anchor amongst the Formentera
Islands, off the coast of Spain, where they took in water. On the next day they anchored in
the Straits of Gibraltar for the same purpose. They next sailed for Cadiz, but a strong west
wind having set in, the ship was forced back to the road of Gibraltar. After waiting there
for three days they again started, under the shelter of a Dutch fleet of eighteen sail, "which,"
says De Péchels, "providentially saved us from falling into the hands of the Algerine corsairs,
some of whom had appeared in sight, and from whose hands God, in His great mercy, delivered
us." As if the Algerine corsairs would have treated the Huguenots worse than their own king
was now treating them. The Algerine corsairs would have sold them into slavery; whilst the
French king was transporting them to America for the same purpose.

At length the squadron reached Cadiz roads. Many ships were there--English as well as Dutch.
When the foreigners heard of the state and misfortunes of the Huguenots on board the French
ships, they came to visit them in their anchoring ground, and were profuse in their charity
to the prisoners for conscience' sake confined in the two French vessels. "God, who never leaves
Himself without witness, brought us consolation and relief from this town, where superstition
and bigotry reign in their fullest force." As it was in De Péchels' day, so it is now.

At length the French squadron set sail for America. The voyage was tedious and miserable. There
were about a hundred and thirty prisoners on board. Seventy of them were sick felons, chained
with heavy irons. Being useless for the French galleys, they were now being transported to
America, to be sold as slaves. The imprisoned Huguenots--men and women--were fifty-nine in
number. They were crammed into a part of the ship that could scarcely hold them. They could
not stand upright; nor could they lie down. They had to lie upon each other. The den was moreover
very dark, the only light that entered it being through the narrow hatchway; and even this
was often closed. The wonder is that they were not suffocated outright.

The burning heat of the sun shining on the deck above them, the never-ceasing fire of the kitchen,
which was situated alongside their place of confinement, created such a stifling heat, that
the prisoners had to take off their shirts to relieve their agony. The horrid stench arising
from so many persons being crowded together, and the entire want of the means of cleanliness,
caused the inmates to become covered with vermin. They were also tormented by the intolerable
thirst which no means were taken to allay. Their feeding was horrible; for they must be kept
alive in some way, in order that the intentions of their gracious sovereign might be carried
into effect. One day they had stinking salt beef; the next, cod fish half boiled; then peas
as hard as when they were put into the pot; and at other times, dried cod fish, or rank cheese.
These things, together with the violent motion of the sea, occasioned severe sickness, from
which many of the sufferers were relieved by death. This deplorable voyage extended over five
months. Here is De Péchels' account of the sufferings of the prisoners, written in his own words:--

"The intense and suffocating heat, the horrible odour, the maddening swarm of vermin that devoured
us, the incessant thirst and wretched fare, sufficed not to satisfy our overseers. They sometimes
struck us rudely, and very often threw down sea-water upon us, when they saw us engaged in
prayer and praise to God. The common talk of these enemies of the truth was how they would
hang, when they came to America, every man who would not go to mass, and how they would deliver
the women to the natives. But far from being frightened at these threats, or even moved by
all the barbarities of which we were the victims, many of us felt a secret joy that we were
chosen to suffer for the holy name of Jesus, who strengthened us with a willingness to die
for His sake. For myself, these menaces had been so often repeated during my imprisonments,
that they had become familiar; insomuch that, far from being shaken by them any more than by
the sufferings to which it had pleased my Saviour to call me, I considered them as transient
things, not worthy to be weighed against the glory to come, and such as would procure me a
weight of glory supremely excellent.

On the 2nd of January, 1688, the island of San Domingo came in sight. It was for the most part
inhabited by savages. The French had a settlement on the west coast of the island, and the
Spaniards occupied the eastern part. Dense forests separated the two settlements. The Mary
coasted along the island, and afterwards made sail for Guadaloupe, another colony belonging
to the French. The ship seemed as yet to have had no proper destination, for, four days later,
the Mary weighed her anchor, and sailed to St. Christopher, another island partly belonging
to the French. "It was well situated," says De Péchels, "as may readily be believed, when I
add that it possessed a colony of Jesuits--an order which never selects a bad situation. The
Jesuits here are very rich and in high repute. Two of the fraternity, having come on board,
were received by the crew with every demonstration of respect; and on their retirement, three
guns were fired as a mark of honour to the distinguished visitors."

The Huguenots were still under hatches,--weary, longing, wretched, and miserable. They were
most anxious to be put on shore--anywhere, even among savages. But the Mary had not yet arrived
at her destination. She again set sail, and passed St. Kitts, St. Eustace, St. Croix, Porto
Rico, and at length again reached San Domingo. The ship dropped anchor before Port au Prince,
the residence of the governor. The galley-slaves were disembarked and sold. Some of the Huguenots
were also sold for slaves, though De Péchels was not among them. The rest were transferred
to the Maria, a king's ship, commanded by M. de Beauguay, who treated the prisoners with much
humanity. The ship then set sail for Léogane, another part of the colony, where the remaining
Huguenots were disembarked. They were quartered on the inhabitants at the pleasure of the governor.

De Péchels says that he passed his time at this place in tranquillity, waiting till it might
please God to afford him an opportunity of escaping from his troubles. He visited the inhabitants,
especially those of his own religious persuasion--a circumstance which gave much umbrage to
the Dominican monks. They ordered some of the bigots among their parishioners to lodge a complaint
against him with the governor, to the effect that he was hindering his fellow-prisoners from
becoming Roman Catholics, and preventing those who had become so from going to mass. He accordingly
received a verbal command from M. Dumas, the King's lieutenant, to repair immediately to Avache
(probably La Vache), an island about a hundred leagues distant from Léogane. He was accordingly
despatched by ship to Avache, which he reached on the 8th of June. He was put in charge of
Captain Laurans, a renowned freebooter, and was specially lodged under his roof. The captain
was ordered never to lose sight of his prisoner.

De Péchels suffered much at this place in consequence of the intense heat, and the insects,
mosquitoes, and horrible flies by which he was surrounded. "And yet," he says, "God in His
great mercy willed that in this very place I should find the means of escaping from my exile,
and making my way to the English island of Jamaica. On the 13th of August a little shallop
of that generous nation, in its course from the island of St. Thomas to Jamaica, stopped at
Avache to water and take provisions. Two months already had I watched for such an opportunity,
and now that God had presented me with this, I thought it should not be neglected. So fully
was I persuaded of this, that without reflecting upon the smallness of the shallop, I put myself
on board with victuals for four days, although assured that the passage would only occupy three.
But instead of performing the passage in three days, as we had thought, it was ten days before
we made the island, during the whole of which time I was constantly unwell from bad weather
and consequent seasickness. During the last three days I suffered also from hunger, my provisions
being spent, with the exception of some little wretched food, salt and smoky, which the sailors
eat to keep themselves from starving. God, in His great compassion, preserved me from all dangers,
and brought me happily to Jamaica, where, however, I thought to leave my bones."

The voyage was followed by a serious illness. De Péchels was obliged to take to his bed, where
he lay for fifteen days prostrated by fever, accompanied by incessant pains in his head. After
the fever had left him, he could neither walk nor stand. By slow degrees his strength returned.
He was at length able to walk; and he then began to make arrangements for setting out for England.
On the 1st of October he embarked on board an English vessel bound for London. During his voyage
north he suffered from cold, as much as he had before suffered from heat. At length the coast
of England was sighted. Two days after, the ship reached the Downs; and on the 22nd of December
it was borne up the Thames by the tide, to within about seven miles from London Bridge. There
the ship stopped to discharge part of her cargo; and De Péchels, having taken his place on
board a small sloop for the great city, arrived there at ten o'clock the same night.

On arrival in London, De Péchels proceeded to make inquiry amongst his Huguenot friends--who
had by that time reached England in great numbers--for his wife, his children, his mother,
and his sisters. Alas! what disappointment! He found no wife, no child, nor any relation ready
to welcome him. His wife, however, was living at Geneva, with their only son; for the youngest
had died at Montauban during De Péchels' exile. His daughters were still at Montauban--the
eldest in a convent. His mother and youngest sister were both in prison--the one at Moissac,
the other at Auvillard. A message was, however, sent to Madame de Péchels, that her husband
was now in England, and longing to meet her.

It was long before the message reached Madame de Péchels; and still longer before she could
join her husband in London. While at Geneva, she had maintained herself and her son by the
work of her hands. On receiving the message she immediately set out, but her voyage could not
fail to be one of hardship to a person in her reduced circumstances. We are not informed how
she and her son contrived to travel the long distance of eight hundred miles (by way of the
Rhine and Holland) from Geneva to London; but at length she reached the English capital, when
she had the mortification to find that her husband was not there, but had left London for Ireland
only four days before. During the absence of her husband, Madame de Péchels, whose courage
never abandoned her, chose rather to stoop to the most toilsome labours than to have recourse
to the charity of the government, of which many, less self-helping, or perhaps more necessitous,
did not scruple to take advantage.

We must now revert to the circumstances under which De Péchels left London for Ireland. At
the time when he arrived in England, the country was in the throes of a Revolution. Only a
month before, William of Orange had landed at Torbay, with a large body of troops, a considerable
proportion of which consisted of Huguenot officers and soldiers. There were three strong regiments
of Huguenot infantry, and a complete squadron of Huguenot cavalry. Marshal Schomberg, next
in command to William of Orange, was a banished Huguenot; and many of his principal officers
were French.

James II. had so distinctly shown his disposition to carry back the nation to the Roman Catholic
religion, that the Prince of Orange, on his landing at Torbay, was hailed as the deliverer
of England. His troops advanced direct upon London. He was daily joined by fresh adherents;
by the gentry, officers, and soldiers. There was scarcely a show of resistance; and when he
entered London, James was getting on board a smack in the Thames, and slinking ignominiously
out of his kingdom. Towards the end of June, 1689, William and Mary were proclaimed King and
Queen of Great Britain; and they were solemnly crowned at Westminster about three months after.

But James II. had not yet been got rid of. In the spring of 1689 he landed at Kinsale, in Ireland,
with substantial help obtained from the French king. Before many weeks had elapsed, forty thousand
Irish stood in arms to support his cause. It was clear that William III. must fight for his
throne, and that Ireland was to be the battle-field. He accordingly called his forces together
again--for the greater part had been disbanded--when he prepared to take the field in person.
Four Huguenot regiments were at once raised, three infantry regiments, and one cavalry regiment.
The cavalry regiment was raised by Marshal Schomberg, its colonel. It was composed of French
gentlemen, privates as well as officers. De Péchels was offered a commission in the regiment,
which he cheerfully accepted. He assumed the name of his barony, La Boissonade, as was common
in those days; and he acted as lieutenant in the company of La Fontain.

The regiment, when completed, was at once despatched to the north of Ireland to join the little
army of about ten thousand Protestants, who had already laid siege to and taken the fortified
town of Carrickfergus. Schomberg's regiment embarked from Chester, on Monday, the 25th of August,
1689; and on the following Saturday the squadron arrived in Belfast Lough. The troopers were
landed a little to the west of Carrickfergus, and marched along the road towards Belfast, which
is still known as "Troopers' Lane." Next day the Duke moved on in pursuit of the enemy. The
regiment passed through Belfast, which was then a very small place. It consisted of a few streets
of thatched cottages, grouped around what is now known as the High Street of Belfast. Schomberg's
regiment joined the infantry and the Enniskilleners, who were encamped in a wood on the west
of the town.

Next morning the little army started in pursuit of the enemy, who, though in much greater numbers,
fled before them, laying waste the country. At night Schomberg's troops encamped at Lisburn;
on the following day at Dromore; on the third at Brickclay (this must be Loughbrickland); and
then on to Newry. All the villages they passed were either burnt or burning. At length they
heard that James's Irish army was at Newry, and that the Duke of Berwick (James's natural son)
was in possession of the town with a strong body of horse. But before Schomberg could reach
the place the Duke of Berwick had evacuated it, leaving the town in flames. The Duke had fled
with such haste that he had left some of his baggage behind him, and thrown his cannon into
the river. Schomberg ordered his cavalry to advance rapidly upon Dundalk, in order to prevent
the town from sharing the same fate as Newry. This forced march took the enemy by surprise.
They suddenly abandoned Dundalk, without burning it, and never paused until they had reached
the entrenched camp of King James.

The weather had now become cold, dreary, and rainy. Provisions were scarcely to be had. The
people of Dundalk were themselves starving. Strong bodies of cavalry foraged the country, but
were able to find next to nothing in the shape of food for themselves, or corn for their horses.
The ships from England, laden with provisions which ought to have arrived at Belfast, were
forced back by contrary winds. Thus the army was becoming rapidly famished. Disease soon made
its appearance, and carried off the men by hundreds. Schomberg's camp, outside Dundalk, was
situated by the side of a marsh--a most unwholesome position; but the marsh protected him from
the enemy, who were not far off. The rain and snow continued; the men and the horses were perpetually
drenched; and scouring winds blew across the camp. Ague, dysentery, and fever everywhere prevailed.
Dalrymple has recorded that of fifteen thousand men who belonged to Schomberg's army, not less
than eight thousand perished. Under these circumstances, the greatly reduced force broke up
from their cantonments and went into winter quarters. Schomberg's cavalry regiment was stationed
at Lurgan, then a small village, which happily had not been burnt. De Péchels was one of those
who had been sick in camp, and was disabled from pursuing the campaign further. After remaining
for some weeks at Lurgan, he obtained leave from the Duke of Schomberg to return to London.
And there, after the lapse of four years, he found and embraced his beloved and noble wife.

De Péchels continued invalided, and was unable to rejoin the army of King William. "After some
stay in London," he says, in the memoir from which the above extracts are made, "it was the
King's pleasure to exempt from further service certain officers specified by name, and to assign
them a pension. Through a kind Providence I was included in the number. When I had lived in
London on the pension which it had pleased the king to allow those officers who were no longer
in a position to serve him, until the 1st of August, 1692, I then left that city, in company
with my wife and son, to remove into Ireland, whither my pension was transferred."

De Péchels accordingly arrived in Dublin, where he spent the rest of his days in peace and
quiet. De Péchels died in 1732, at a ripe old age, in his eighty-seventh year, and was interred
in the Huguenot cemetery in the neighbourhood of Dublin.

And what of the children left by De Péchels at Montauban? The two daughters who were torn from
their mother's care, and immured in a convent, were brought up in the Roman Catholic faith.
The little boy, who was also taken from her, died shortly after. The daughters accordingly
secured the possession of the family estates. The eldest married M. de Cahuzac, and the youngest,
who was taken as a babe from her mother's breast, married M. de St. Sardos; and the descendants
of the latter still possess La Boissonade, which exists as an old château near Montauban.

It was left for Jacob de Péchels, the only son of Samuel de Péchels and his wife, the Marquise
de Sabonnières, to build up the family fortunes in England. Following the military instincts
of the French, he entered the English army at an early age. His name was entered "Pechell"
in his War Office commission. Probably this change of name originated in the disposition of
the naturalised Huguenots to adopt names of an English sound rather than to retain their French
names. Numerous instances of this have already been given.[90] Jacob Pechell was a gallant
officer. He rose in the army, step by step. He fought through the wars in the Low Countries,
under Marlborough and Ligonier, the latter being a Huguenot like himself. He rose through the
various grades of ensign, lieutenant, captain, and major, until he attained the rank of colonel
of the 16th regiment. Colonel Pechell married an Irish heiress, Jane Elizabeth Boyd, descended
from the Earls of Kilmarnock. By her he had three sons and a daughter. Samuel, the eldest,
studied law, and became a Master in Chancery. George and Paul obedient to their military instincts,
entered the army, and became distinguished officers. George was killed at Carthagena, and it
was left for Paul to maintain the fortunes of the family.

         [Footnote 90: In "The Huguenots in England and Ireland," 319,
         323, last edition.]

In those days the exiled Huguenots and their descendants lived very much together. They married
into each other's families. The richer helped the poorer. There were distinguished French social
circles, where, though their country was forbidden them, they delighted to speak in their own
language. Like many others, the Pechells intermarried with Huguenot families. Thus Samuel Pechell
married the daughter of François Gaultier, Esq., and his sister Mary married Brigadier-General
Cailland, of Aston Rowant.

Among the distinguished French nobles in London was the Marquis de Montandre, descended from
the De la Rochefoucaulds, one of the greatest families in France. De Montandre was a field-marshal
in the English army, having rendered important services in the Spanish war. His wife was daughter
of Baron de Spanheim, Ambassador Extraordinary for the King of Prussia, and descended from
another Protestant refugee. The field-marshal left his fortune to his wife, and when she died,
she left Samuel Pechell, Master in Chancery, her sole executor and residuary legatee. The sum
of money to which he became entitled on her decease amounted to upwards of £40,000. But Mr.
Pechell, from a highly sensitive conscience--such as is rarely equalled--did not feel himself
perfectly justified in acquiring so large a fortune until he knew that there were no relations
of the testatrix in existence, whose claim to inherit the property might be greater than his
own. He therefore collected all her effects, and put them into Chancery, in order that those
who could make good their claims by kindred to the Marchioness might do so before the Chancellor.
Accordingly, one family from Berlin and another from Geneva appeared, and claimed, and obtained
the inheritance. These relations, in acknowledgment of the kindness and honesty of Mr. Pechell,
resolved on presenting him with a set of Sèvres china, which was at that time beyond all price
in value. It could only be had as a great favour from the manufactory at Sèvres, and was only
purchased by, or presented to, crowned heads.[91]

         [Footnote 91: This china is now at Castle Goring, and, with
         the whole of the family documents, is in the possession of
         the Dowager Lady Burrell.]

Paul Pechell, who had entered the army, became a distinguished officer, and rose to the rank
of general. In 1797 he was created a baronet, and married Mary, the only daughter and heiress
of Thomas Brooke, Esq., of Pagglesham, Essex. His eldest son, Sir Thomas, was a major-general
in the army, and was for some time M.P. for Downton. The second son, Augustus, was appointed
Receiver-General of the Post Office in 1785, and of the Customs in 1790. Many of his descendants
still survive, and the baronetcy reverted to his second son. He was succeeded by his two sons,
one of whom became rear-admiral, and the other vice-admiral. The latter, Sir George Richard
Brooke Pechell, entered the Royal Navy in 1803, and served with distinction in several engagements.
After the peace, he represented the important borough of Brighton in Parliament for twenty-four
years. He married the daughter and coheir of Cecil, Lord Zouche, and added Castle Goring to
part of the ancient possessions of the Bisshopp family, which she inherited at her father's death.

William Cecil Pechell, the only son of Sir George, again following the military instincts of
his race, entered the army, and became captain of the 77th regiment, with which he served during
the Crimean war. He fell leading on his men to repel an attack made by the Russians on the
advanced trenches before Sebastopol, on the 3rd of September, 1855. He was beloved and deeply
lamented by all who knew him; and sorrow at his loss was expressed by the Queen, by the Commander-in-Chief,
by the whole of the light division, and by the mayor and principal inhabitants of Brighton.
A statue of Captain Pechell, by Noble, was erected by public subscription, and now stands in
the Pavilion at Brighton.

II.

CAPTAIN RAPIN,

AUTHOR OF THE "HISTORY OF ENGLAND."

When Louis XIV. revoked the Edict of Nantes, he expelled from France nearly all his subjects
who would not conform to the Roman Catholic religion. He drove out the manufacturers, who were
for the most part Protestants, and thus destroyed the manufacturing supremacy of France. He
expelled Protestants of every class--advocates, judges, doctors, artists, scientists, teachers,
and professors. And, last of all, he expelled the Protestant soldiers and sailors.

According to Vauban, 12,000 tried soldiers, 9,000 sailors, and 600 officers left France, and
entered into foreign service. Some went to England, some to Holland, and some to Prussia. Those
who took refuge in Holland entered the service of William, Prince of Orange. Most of them accompanied
him to Torbay in 1688. They fought against the armies of Louis XIV. at the Boyne, at Athlone,
and at Aughrim, and finally drove the French out of Ireland.

The sailors also did good service under the flags of England and Holland. They distinguished
themselves at the sea-fight off La Hogue, where the English and Dutch fleets annihilated the
expedition prepared by Louis XIV. for a descent upon England.

The expatriated French soldiers occasionally revisited the country of their birth, not as friends,
but as enemies. They encountered the armies of Louis XIV. in all the battles of the Low Countries.
They fought at Ramilies, Blenheim, and Malplacquet. Another Huguenot engineer conducted the
operations at Lisle, which was also taken by the allied forces. While there, a flying party,
consisting chiefly of French Huguenots, penetrated as far as the neighbourhood of Paris, when
they nearly succeeded in carrying off the Dauphin.

The Huguenot officers who took refuge in Prussia entered the service of Frederick William,
Elector of Brandenburg. Some were raised to the highest offices in his army. Marshal Schomberg
was one of the number. But when he found that William of Orange was assembling a large force
in Holland for the purpose of making a descent upon England, he requested leave to join him;
and his friend Prince Frederick William, though with great regret, at length granted him permission
to leave the Prussian service.

The subject of the following narrative was a French refugee, who entered the service of William
of Orange. To find the beginning of his ancestry, we must reach far back into history. The
Rapins were supposed to have been driven from the Campagna of Rome during the persecutions
of Nero. They took refuge in one of the wildest and most picturesque valleys of the Alps. In
1250 we find the Rapins established near Saint-Jean de la Maurienne, in Savoy, close upon the
French frontier. Saint-Jean de la Maurienne was so called because of the supposed relic of
the bones of St. John the Baptist, which had been deposited there by a female pilgrim, Sainte
Thècle, who was, it is supposed, a Rapin by birth. The fief of Chaudane en Valloires was the
patrimony of the Rapins, which they long continued to hold. In 1692 the descendants of the
family endeavoured to prove, from the numerous titles which they possessed, that they had been
nobles for eight or nine hundred years.

The home of the Rapins was situated in the country of the Vaudois. In 1375 the Vaudois descended
from their mountains and preached the gospel in the valleys of Savoy. The Pope appealed to
the King of France, who sent an army into the district. The Vaudois were crushed. Those who
remained fled back to the mountains. Nevertheless the Reformed religion spread in the district.
An Italian priest, Raphaël Bordeille, even preached the gospel in the cathedral of Saint-Jean
de Maurienne. But he was suddenly arrested. He was seized, tried for the crime of heresy, and
burnt in front of the cathedral on Holy Thursday, in Passion Week, 1550.

Though the Rapin family held many high offices in Church and State, several of them attached
themselves to the Reformed religion. Three brothers at length left their home in Savoy, and
established themselves in France during the reign of Francis I. Without entering into their
history during the long-continued religious wars which devastated the south of France, it may
be sufficient to state that two of the brothers took an active part under Condé. Antoine de
Rapin held important commands at Toulouse, at Montauban, at Castres and Montpellier. Philibert
de Rapin, his younger brother, was one of the most valiant and trusted officers of the Reformed
party. He was selected by the Prince of Condé to carry into Languedoc the treaty of peace signed
at Longjumeaux on the 20th March, 1568.

Feeling safe under the royal commission, he presented to the Parliament at Toulouse the edict
with which he was intrusted. He then retired to his country house at Grenade, on the outskirts
of Toulouse. He was there seized like a criminal, brought before the judges, and sentenced
to be beheaded in three days. The treaty was thus annulled. War went on as before. Two years
after, the army of Coligny appeared before Toulouse. The houses and châteaux of the councillors
of Parliament were burnt, and on their smoking ruins were affixed the significant words, "Vengeance
de Rapin."

Philibert de Rapin's son Pierre embraced the career of arms almost from his boyhood. He served
under the Prince of Navarre. He was almost as poor as the Prince. One day he asked him for
some pistoles to replace a horse which had been killed under him in action. The Prince replied,
"I should like to give you them, but do you see I have only three shirts!" Pierre at length
became Seigneur and Baron of Manvers, though his château was destroyed and burnt during his
absence with the army. Destructions of the same kind were constantly taking place throughout
the whole of France. But, to the honour of humanity, it must be told that when his château
was last destroyed, the Catholic gentlemen of the neighbourhood brought their labourers to
the place, and tilled and sowed his abandoned fields. When Rapin arrived eight months later,
he was surprised and gratified to find his estate in perfect order. This was a touching proof
of the esteem with which this Protestant gentleman was held by his Catholic neighbours.

Pierre de Rapin died in 1647 at the age of eighty-nine. He left twenty-two children by his
second wife. His eldest son Jean succeeded to the estate of Manvers and to the title of baron.
Like his father, he was a soldier. He first served under the Prince of Orange, who was then
a French prince, head of the principality of Orange. He served under the King of France in
the war with Spain. He was a frank and loyal soldier, yet firmly attached to the faith of his
fathers. He belonged to the old Huguenot phalanx, who, as the Duke de Mayenne said, "were always
ready for death, from father to son." After the wars were over, he gave up the sword for the
plough. His château was in ruins, and he had to live in a very humble way until his fortunes
were restored. He used to say that his riches consisted in his four sons, who were all worthy
of the name they bore.

Jacques de Rapin, Seigneur de Thoyras, was the second son of Pierre de Rapin. Thoyras was a
little hamlet near Grenade, adjacent to the baronial estate of Manvers. Jacques studied the
law. He became an advocate, and practised with success, for about fifty years, at Castres and
other cities and towns in the south of France. When the Edict of Nantes was revoked, the Protestants
were no longer permitted to practise the law, and he was compelled to resign his profession.
He died shortly after, but the authorities would not even allow his corpse to be buried in
the family vault. They demolished his place of interment, and threw his body into a ditch by
the side of the road.

In the meantime Paul de Rapin, son of Jean, Baron de Manvers, had married the eldest daughter
of Jacques, Seigneur de Thoyras. Paul, like many of his ancestors, entered the army. He served
with distinction under the Duke of Luxembourg in Holland, Flanders, and Italy, yet he never
rose above the rank of captain. On his death in 1685, his widow and two daughters (being Protestants)
were apprehended in their château at Manvers, and incarcerated in convents at Montpellier and
Toulouse. Her sons were also taken away, and placed in other convents. They were only liberated
after five years' confinement.

Madame de Rapin then resolved to quit France entirely. She contrived to reach Holland, and
established her family at Utrecht. Her brother-in-law, Daniel de Rapin, had already escaped
from France, and achieved the position of colonel in the Dutch service. Strengthened and fortified
by persecutions, the Reformed were willing to die in exile, far from their beloved children
who had been violently snatched from them, but leaving with them a holy heritage of example
and of firmness in their faith. The pious lessons of their mothers, profoundly engraved on
the hearts of their daughters, sufficed more than once to save them from apostasy, which was
rendered all the more easy by the feebleness of their youth and the perfidious suggestions
by which they were surrounded."

We return to Paul de Rapin-Thoyras, second son of Madame de Rapin. He was born at Castres in
1661. He received his first lessons at home. He learnt the Latin rudiments, but his progress
was not such as to please his father. He was then sent to the academy at Puylaurens, where
the Protestant noblesse of the south of France were still permitted to send their sons. The
celebrated Bayle was educated there. But in 1685 the academy of Puylaurens was suppressed,
as that of Montauban had been a few years before; and then young Rapin was sent to Saumur,
one of the few remaining schools in France where Protestants were allowed to be educated.

Rapin finished his studies and returned home. He wished to enter the army, but his father was
so much opposed to it, that he at length acceded to his desires and commenced the study of
the law. He was already prepared for being received to the office of advocate, when the royal
edict was passed which prevented Protestants from practising before the courts; and, indeed,
prevented them from following any profession whatever. Immediately after the death of his father,
Paul de Rapin, accompanied by his younger brother Solomon, emigrated from France and proceeded
into England.

It was not without a profound feeling of sadness that Rapin-Thoyras left his native country.
He left his widowed mother in profound grief, arising from the recent death of her husband.
She was now exposed to persecutions which were bitterer by far than the perils of exile. It
was at her express wish that Rapin left his native country and emigrated to England. And yet
it was for France that his fathers had shed their blood and laid down their lives. But France
now repelled the descendants of her noblest sons from her bosom.

Shortly after his arrival in London, Rapin made the acquaintance of the Abbé of Denbeck, nephew
of the Bishop of Tournay. The Abbé was an intimate friend of Rapin's uncle, Pélisson, a man
notorious in those times for buying up consciences with money. Louis XIV. consecrated to this
traffic one-third of the benefices which fell to the Crown during their vacancy. They were
left vacant for the purpose of paying for the abjurations of the heretics. Pélisson had the
administration of the fund. He had been born a Protestant, but he abjured his religion, and
from a convert he became a converter. Voltaire says of him, in his "Siècle de Louis XIV.,"
"Much more a courtier than a philosopher, Pélisson changed his religion and made a fortune."

Pélisson wrote to his friend the Abbé of Denbeck, then in London at the court of James II.,
to look after his nephew Rapin-Thoyras, and endeavour to bring him over to the true faith.
It is even said that Pélisson offered Rapin the priory of Saint-Orens d'Auch if he would change
his religion. The Abbé did his best. He introduced Rapin to M. de Barillon, then ambassador
at the English court. James II. was then the pensioner of France, and accordingly had many
intimate transactions with the French ambassador. M. de Barillon received the young refugee
with great kindness, and, at the recommendation of the Abbé and Pélisson, offered to present
him to the King. Their object was to get Rapin appointed to some public office, and thereby
help his conversion.

But Rapin fled from the temptation. Though no great theologian, he felt it to be wrong to be
thus entrapped into a faith which was not his own; and without much reasoning about his belief,
but merely acting from a sense of duty, he left London at once and embarked for Holland.

At Utrecht he joined his uncle, Daniel de Rapin, who was in command of a company of cadets
wholly composed of Huguenot gentlemen and nobles. Daniel had left the service of France on
the 25th of October, 1685, three days after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes. He was then
captain of a French regiment in Picardy, but he could no longer, without denying his God, serve
his country and his King. In fact, he was compelled, like all other Protestant officers, to
leave France unless he would at once conform to the King's faith.

Rapin was admitted to the company of refugee cadets commanded by his uncle. He was now twenty-seven
years old. His first instincts had been military, and now he was about to pursue the profession
of arms in his adopted country. His first prospects were not brilliant. He was put under a
course of discipline, his pay amounting to only sixpence a day. Indeed, the States-General
of Holland were at first unwilling to take so large a number of refugee Frenchmen into their
service; but on the Prince of Orange publicly declaring that he would himself pay the expenses
of maintaining the military refugees, they hesitated no longer, but voted money enough to enrol
them in their service.

The Prince of Orange had now a large body of troops at his command. No one knew for what purpose
they were enrolled. Some thought they were intended for an attack upon France in revenge for
Louis' devastation of Holland a few years before. James II. never dreamt that they were intended
for a descent upon the coasts of England. Yet he was rapidly alienating the loyalty of his
subjects by hypocrisy, by infidelity to the laws of England, and by unmitigated persecution
of those who differed from him in religious belief. In this state of affairs England looked
to the Prince of Orange for help.

William III. was doubly related to the royal family of England. He was nephew of Charles I.
and son-in-law of James II. His wife was the heiress-presumptive to the British throne. Above
all, he was a Protestant, while James II. was a Roman Catholic. "Here," said the Archbishop
of Rheims of the latter, "is a good sort of man who has lost his three kingdoms for a mass!"

William was at length ready with his troops. Louis XIV. suddenly withdrew his army from Flanders
and poured them into Germany. William seized the opportunity. A fleet of more than six hundred
vessels, including fifty men-of-war, assembled at Helvoetsluys, near the mouth of the Maas.
The troops were embarked with great celerity.

The fleet set sail on the 19th October, the English Admiral Herbert leading the van, the Prince
of Orange commanding the main body of the fleet, and the Dutch Vice-Admiral Evertzen bringing
up the rear.

The wind was fair. It was the "Protestant wind" that the people of England had so long been
looking for. In a few hours the strong eastern breeze had driven the fleet half across the
sea that divides the Dutch and English coasts. Then the wind changed. It began to blow from
the west. The wind increased until it blew a violent tempest. The fleet seemed to be in the
midst of a cyclone. The ships were blown hither and thither, so that in less than two hours
the fleet was completely dispersed. At daybreak next morning scarce two ships could be seen
together.

The several ships returned to their rendez-vous at Goeree, in the Maas. They returned in a
miserable condition--some with their sails blown away, some without their bulwarks, some without
their masts. Many ships were still missing. The horses had suffered severely. They had been
stowed away in the holds and driven against each other during the storm. Many had been suffocated,
others had their legs broken, and had to be killed when the vessels reached the shore. The
banks at Goeree were covered with dead horses taken from the ships. Four hundred had been lost.

Rapin de Thoyras and M. de Chavernay, commanding two companies of French Huguenots, were on
board one of the missing ships. The frightful tempest had separated them from the fleet. They
had been driven before the wind as far as the coast of Norway. They thought that each moment
might be their last. But the sailors were brave, and the ship was manageable. After enduring
a week's storm the wind at last abated. The ship was tacked, and winged its way towards the
south. At length, after about eight days' absence, they rejoined the fleet, which had again
assembled in the Maas. There were now only two vessels missing, containing four companies of
the Holstein regiment, and about sixty French Huguenot officers.

In the meantime the Prince of Orange had caused all the damages in the combined fleet to be
repaired. New horses were embarked, new men were added to the army, and new ships were hired
for the purpose of accommodating them. The men-of-war were also increased. After eleven days
the fleet was prepared to put to sea again.

On the 1st of November, 1688, the armament started on its second voyage for the English coast.
The fleet at first steered northward, and it was thought to be the Prince's intention to land
at the mouth of the Humber. But a violent east wind having begun to blow during the night,
the fleet steered towards the south-eastern coast of England; after which the ships shortened
sail for fear of accidents.

The same wind that blew the English and Dutch fleet towards the Channel, had the effect of
keeping King James's fleet in the Thames, where they remained anchored at Gunfleet, sixty-one
men-of-war, under command of Admiral Lord Dartmouth.

On the 3rd of November, the fleet under the Prince of Orange entered the English Channel, and
lay between Calais and Dover to wait for the ships that were behind. "It is easy," says Rapin
Thoyras, "to imagine what a glorious show the fleet made. Five or six hundred ships in so narrow
a channel, and both the English and French shores covered with numberless spectators, are no
common sight. For my part, who was then on board the fleet, I own it struck me extremely."

Sunday, the 4th of November, was the Prince's birthday, and it was dedicated to devotion. The
fleet was then off the Isle of Wight. Sail was slackened during the performance of divine service.
The fleet then sped on its way down-channel, in order that the troops might be landed at Dartmouth
or Torbay; but during the night the wind freshened, and the fleet was carried beyond the desired
ports. Soon after, however, the wind changed to the south, when the fleet tacked in splendid
order, and made for the shore in Torbay. The landing was effected with such diligence and tranquillity
that the whole army was on shore before night.

There was no opposition to the landing. King James's army greatly outnumbered that of the Prince
of Orange. It amounted to about forty thousand troops, exclusive of the militia. But the King's
forces had been sent northward to resist the anticipated landing of the delivering army at
the mouth of the Humber, so that the south-west of England was nearly stripped of troops.

Nor could the King depend upon his forces. The King had already outraged and insulted the gallant
noblemen and gentlemen who had heretofore been the bulwark of his throne. He had imprisoned
the bishops, dismissed Protestant clergymen from their livings, refused to summon a Parliament,
and caused terror and dismay throughout England and Scotland. He had created discontent throughout
the army by his dismissal of Protestant officers, and the King now began to fear that the common
soldiers themselves would fail to serve him in his time of need.

His fears proved prophetic. When the army of the Prince of Orange advanced from Brixton (where
it had landed) to Exeter, and afterwards to Salisbury and London, it was joined by noblemen,
gentlemen, officers, and soldiers. Lord Churchill, afterwards Duke of Marlborough, Lord Cornbury,
with four regiments of dragoons, passed over to the Prince of Orange. The Prince of Denmark,
the King's son-in-law, deserted him. His councillors abandoned him. His mistresses left him.
The country was up against him. At length the King saw no remedy before him but a precipitate
flight.

