     "This is the best work women of wealth can do, and I hope in the
     future they will endow scholarships for their own sex instead of
     giving millions of dollars to institutions for boys, as they have
     done in the past. After all the bequests women have made to Harvard
     see how niggardly that institution, in its 'annex,' treats their
     daughters. I once asked a wealthy lady to give a few thousands of
     dollars to start a medical college and hospital for women in New
     York. She said before making bequests she always consulted her
     minister and her Bible. He told her there was nothing said in the
     Bible about colleges for women. I said, 'Tell him he is mistaken.
     If he will turn to 2 'Chron. xxxiv. 22, he will find that when
     Josiah, the king, sent the wise men to consult Huldah, the
     prophetess, about the book of laws discovered in the temple, they
     found Huldah in the college in Jerusalem, thoroughly well informed
     on questions of state, while Shallum, her husband, was keeper of
     the robes. I suppose his business was to sew on the royal buttons.'
     But in spite of this Scriptural authority, the rich lady gave
     thirty thousand dollars to Princeton and never one cent for the
     education of her own sex.

     "Of all the voices to which these walls have echoed for over half a
     century, how few remain to tell the story of the early days, and
     when we part, how few of us will ever meet again; but I know we
     shall carry with us some new inspiration for the work that still
     remains for us to do. Though many of us are old in years, we may
     still be young in heart. Women trained to concentrate all their
     thoughts on family life are apt to think--when their children are
     grown up, their loved ones gone, their servants trained to keep the
     domestic machinery in motion--that their work in life is done, that
     no one needs now their thought and care, quite forgetting that the
     hey-day of woman's life is on the shady side of fifty, when the
     vital forces heretofore expended in other ways are garnered in the
     brain, when their thoughts and sentiments flow out in broader
     channels, when philanthropy takes the place of family selfishness,
     and when from the depths of poverty and suffering the wail of
     humanity grows as pathetic to their ears as once was the cry of
     their own children.

     "Or, perhaps, the pressing cares of family life ended, the woman
     may awake to some slumbering genius in herself for art, science, or
     literature, with which to gild the sunset of her life. Longfellow's
     beautiful poem, 'Morituri Salutamus,' written for a similar
     occasion to this, is full of hope and promise for all of us. He
     says:

    "'Something remains for us to do or dare;
    Even the oldest tree some fruit may bear.
    Cato learned Greek at eighty; Sophocles
    Wrote his grand Oedipus, and Simonides
    Bore off the prize of verse from his compeers,
    When each had numbered more than four-score years.
    And Theophrastus, at three-score and ten,
    Had but begun his Characters of Men;
    Chaucer, at Woodstock with the nightingales,
    At sixty wrote the Canterbury Tales;
    Goethe at Weimar, toiling to the last,
    Completed Faust when eighty years were past.
    These are indeed exceptions; but they show
    How far the gulf-stream of our youth may flow
    Into the Arctic regions of our lives,
    Where little else than life itself survives.
    For age is opportunity no less
    Than youth itself, though in another dress,
    And as the evening twilight fades away
    The sky is filled with stars, invisible by day.'"

On December 21, 1892, we celebrated, for the first time, "Foremothers' Day." Men had celebrated
"Forefathers' Day" for many years, but as women were never invited to join in their festivities,
Mrs. Devereux Blake introduced the custom of women having a dinner in celebration of that day.
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker spent two days with me, and together we attended the feast and
made speeches. This custom is now annually observed, and gentlemen sit in the gallery just
as ladies had done on similar occasions.

My son Theodore arrived from France in April, 1893, to attend the Chicago Exposition, and spent
most of the summer with me at Glen Cove, Long Island, where my son Gerrit and his wife were
domiciled. Here we read Captain Charles King's stories of life at military posts, Sanborn's
"Biography of Bronson Alcott," and Lecky's "History of Rationalism."

Here I visited Charles A. Dana, the Nestor of journalism, and his charming family. He lived
on a beautiful island near Glen Cove. His refined, artistic taste, shown in his city residence
in paintings, statuary, and rare bric-a-brac, collected in his frequent travels in the Old
World, displayed itself in his island home in the arrangement of an endless variety of trees,
shrubs, and flowers, through which you caught glimpses of the Sound and distant shores. One
seldom meets so gifted a man as the late editor of the Sun. He was a scholar, speaking several
languages; an able writer and orator, and a most genial companion in the social circle. His
wife and daughter are cultivated women. The name of this daughter, Zoe Dana Underhill, often
appears in our popular magazines as the author of short stories, remarkable for their vivid
descriptions.

I met Mr. Dana for the first time at the Brook Farm Community in 1843, in that brilliant circle
of Boston transcendentalists, who hoped in a few years to transform our selfish, competitive
civilization into a Paradise where all the altruistic virtues might make co-operation possible.
But alas! the material at hand was not sufficiently plastic for that higher ideal. In due time
the community dissolved and the members returned to their ancestral spheres. Margaret Fuller,
who was a frequent visitor there, betook herself to matrimony in sunny Italy, William Henry
Channing to the Church, Bronson Alcott to the education of the young, Frank Cabot to the world
of work, Mr. and Mrs. Ripley to literature, and Charles A. Dana to the press. Mr. Dana was
very fortunate in his family relations. His wife, Miss Eunice MacDaniel, and her relatives
sympathized with him in all his most liberal opinions. During the summer at Glen Cove I had
the pleasure of several long conversations with Miss Frances L. MacDaniel and her brother Osborne,
whose wife is the sister of Mr. Dana, and who is now assisting Miss Prestona Mann in trying
an experiment, similar to the one at Brook Farm, in the Adirondacks.

Miss Anthony spent a week with us in Glen Cove. She came to stir me up to write papers for
every Congress at the Exposition, which I did, and she read them in the different Congresses,
adding her own strong words at the close. Mrs. Russell Sage also came and spent a day with
us to urge me to write a paper to be read at Chicago at the Emma Willard Reunion, which I did.
A few days afterward Theodore and I returned her visit. We enjoyed a few hours' conversation
with Mr Sage, who had made a very generous gift of a building to the Emma Willard Seminary
at Troy. This school was one of the first established (1820) for girls in our State, and received
an appropriation from the New York legislature on the recommendation of the Governor, De Witt
Clinton. Mr. Sage gave us a description that night of the time his office was blown up with
dynamite thrown by a crank, and of his narrow escape. We found the great financier and his
wife in an unpretending cottage with a fine outlook on the sea. Though possessed of great wealth
they set a good example of simplicity and economy, which many extravagant people would do well
to follow.

Having visited the World's Exposition at Chicago and attended a course of lectures at Chautauqua,
my daughter, Mrs. Stanton Lawrence, returned to the city, and as soon as our apartment was
in order I joined her. She had recently been appointed Director of Physical Training at the
Teachers' College in New York city. I attended several of her exhibitions and lectures, which
were very interesting. She is doing her best to develop, with proper exercises and sanitary
dress, a new type of womanhood.

My time passed pleasantly these days with a drive in the Park and an hour in the land of Nod,
also in reading Henry George's "Progress and Poverty," William Morris on industrial questions,
Stevenson's novels, the "Heavenly Twins," and "Marcella," and at twilight, when I could not
see to read and write, in playing and singing the old tunes and songs I loved in my youth.
In the evening we played draughts and chess. I am fond of all games, also of music and novels,
hence the days fly swiftly by; I am never lonely, life is ever very sweet to me and full of
interest.

The winter of 1893-94 was full of excitement, as the citizens of New York were to hold a Constitutional
Convention. Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi endeavored to rouse a new class of men and women to action
in favor of an amendment granting to women the right to vote. Appeals were sent throughout
the State, gatherings were held in parlors, and enthusiastic meetings in Cooper Institute and
at the Savoy Hotel. My daughter, Mrs. Stanton Blatch, who was visiting this country, took an
active part in the canvass, and made an eloquent speech in Cooper Institute. Strange to say,
some of the leading ladies formed a strong party against the proposed amendment and their own
enfranchisement. They were called the "Antis." This opposing organization adopted the same
plan for the campaign as those in favor of the amendment. They issued appeals, circulated petitions,
and had hearings before the Convention.

Mrs. Russell Sage, Mrs. Henry M. Sanders, Mrs. Edward Lauterbach, Mrs. Runkle, and some liberal
clergymen did their uttermost to secure the insertion of the amendment in the proposed new
constitution, but the Committee on Suffrage of the Constitutional Convention refused even to
submit the proposed amendment to a vote of the people, though half a million of our most intelligent
and respectable citizens had signed the petition requesting them to do so. Joseph H. Choate
and Elihu Root did their uttermost to defeat the amendment, and succeeded.

I spent the summer of 1894 with my son Gerrit, in his home at Thomaston, Long Island. Balzac's
novels, and the "Life of Thomas Paine" by Moncure D. Conway, with the monthly magazines and
daily papers, were my mental pabulum. My daughter, Mrs. Stanton Lawrence, returned from England
in September, 1894, having had a pleasant visit with her sister in Basingstoke. In December
Miss Anthony came, and we wrote the woman suffrage article for the new edition of Johnson's
Cyclopedia.

On March 3, 1895, Lady Somerset and Miss Frances Willard, on the eve of their departure for
England, called to see me. We discussed my project of a "Woman's Bible." They consented to
join a revising committee, but before the committee was organized they withdrew their names,
fearing the work would be too radical. I especially desired to have the opinions of women from
all sects, but those belonging to the orthodox churches declined to join the committee or express
their views. Perhaps they feared their faith might be disturbed by the strong light of investigation.
Some half dozen members of the Revising Committee began with me to write "Comments on the Pentateuch."

The chief thought revolving in my mind during the years of 1894 and 1895 had been "The Woman's
Bible." In talking with friends I began to feel that I might realize my long-cherished plan.
Accordingly, I began to read the commentators on the Bible and was surprised to see how little
they had to say about the greatest factor in civilization, the mother of the race, and that
little by no means complimentary. The more I read, the more keenly I felt the importance of
convincing women that the Hebrew mythology had no special claim to a higher origin than that
of the Greeks, being far less attractive in style and less refined in sentiment. Its objectionable
features would long ago have been apparent had they not been glossed over with a faith in their
divine inspiration. For several months I devoted all my time to Biblical criticism and ecclesiastical
history, and found no explanation for the degraded status of women under all religions, and
in all the so-called "Holy Books."

When Part I. of "The Woman's Bible" was finally published in November, 1895, it created a great
sensation. Some of the New York city papers gave a page to its review, with pictures of the
commentators, of its critics, and even of the book itself. Extracts from it, and criticisms
of the commentators, were printed in the newspapers throughout America, Great Britain, and
Europe. A third edition was found necessary, and finally an edition was published in England.
The Revising Committee was enlarged, and it now consists of over thirty of the leading women
of America and Europe.[A]

The month of August, 1895, we spent in Peterboro, on the grand hills of Madison County, nine
hundred feet above the valley. Gerrit Smith's fine old mansion still stands, surrounded with
magnificent trees, where I had played in childhood, chasing squirrels over lawn and gardens
and wading in a modest stream that still creeps slowly round the grounds. I recalled as I sat
on the piazza how one time, when Frederick Douglass came to spend a few days at Peterboro,
some Southern visitors wrote a note to Mr. Smith asking if Mr. Douglass was to sit in the parlor
and at the dining table; if so, during his visit they would remain in their own apartments.
Mr. Smith replied that his visitors were always treated by his family as equals, and such would
be the case with Mr. Douglass, who was considered one of the ablest men reared under "The Southern
Institution." So these ladies had their meals in their own apartments, where they stayed most
of the time, and, as Mr. Douglass prolonged his visit, they no doubt wished in their hearts
that they had never taken that silly position. The rest of us walked about with him, arm in
arm, played games, and sang songs together, he playing the accompaniment on the guitar. I suppose
if our prejudiced countrywomen had been introduced to Dumas in a French salon, they would at
once have donned their bonnets and ran away.

Sitting alone under the trees I recalled the different generations that had passed away, all
known to me. Here I had met the grandfather, Peter Sken Smith, partner of John Jacob Astor.
In their bargains with the Indians they acquired immense tracts of land in the Northern part
of the State of New York, which were the nucleus of their large fortunes. I have often heard
Cousin Gerrit complain of the time he lost managing the estate. His son Greene was an enthusiast
in the natural sciences and took but little interest in property matters. Later, his grandson,
Gerrit Smith Miller, assumed the burden of managing the estate and, in addition, devoted himself
to agriculture. He imported a fine breed of Holstein cattle, which have taken the first prize
at several fairs. His son, bearing the same name, is devoted to the natural sciences, like
his uncle Greene; whose fine collection of birds was presented by his widow to Harvard College.

The only daughter of Gerrit Smith, Elizabeth Smith Miller, is a remarkable woman, possessing
many of the traits of her noble father. She has rare executive ability, as shown in the dispatch
of her extensive correspondence and in the perfect order of her house and grounds. She has
done much in the way of education, especially for the colored race, in helping to establish
schools and in distributing literature. She subscribes for many of the best books, periodicals,
and papers for friends not able to purchase for themselves. We cannot estimate the good she
has done in this way. Every mail brings her letters from all classes, from charitable institutions,
prisons, Southern plantations, army posts, and the far-off prairies. To all these pleas for
help she gives a listening ear. Her charities are varied and boundless, and her hospitalities
to the poor as well as the rich, courteous and generous. The refinement and artistic taste
of the Southern mother and the heroic virtues of the father are happily blended in their daughter.
In her beautiful home on Seneca Lake, one is always sure to meet some of the most charming
representatives of the progressive thought of our times. Representatives of all these generations
now rest in the cemetery at Peterboro, and as in review they passed before me they seemed to
say, "Why linger you here alone so long?"

My son Theodore arrived from Paris in September, 1895, and rendered most important service
during the preparations for my birthday celebration, in answering letters, talking with reporters,
and making valuable suggestions to the managers as to many details in the arrangements, and
encouraging me to go through the ordeal with my usual heroism. I never felt so nervous in my
life, and so unfitted for the part I was in duty bound to perform. From much speaking through
many years my voice was hoarse, from a severe fall I was quite lame, and as standing, and distinct
speaking are important to graceful oratory, I felt like the king's daughter in Shakespeare's
play of "Titus Andronicus," when rude men who had cut her hands off and her tongue out, told
her to call for water and wash her hands. However, I lived through the ordeal, as the reader
will see in the next chapter.

After my birthday celebration, the next occasion of deep interest to me was the Chicago Convention
of 1896, the platform there adopted, and the nomination and brilliant campaign of William J.
Bryan. I had long been revolving in my mind questions relating to the tariff and finance, and
in the demands of liberal democrats, populists, socialists, and the laboring men and women,
I heard the clarion notes of the coming revolution.

During the winter of 1895-96 I was busy writing alternately on this autobiography and "The
Woman's Bible," and articles for magazines and journals on every possible subject from Venezuela
and Cuba to the bicycle. On the latter subject many timid souls were greatly distressed. Should
women ride? What should they wear? What are "God's intentions" concerning them? Should they
ride on Sunday? These questions were asked with all seriousness. We had a symposium on these
points in one of the daily papers. To me the answer to all these questions was simple--if woman
could ride, it was evidently "God's intention" that she be permitted to do so. As to what she
should wear, she must decide what is best adapted to her comfort and convenience. Those who
prefer a spin of a few hours on a good road in the open air to a close church and a dull sermon,
surely have the right to choose, whether with trees and flowers and singing birds to worship
in "That temple not made with hands, eternal in the heavens," or within four walls to sleep
during the intonation of that melancholy service that relegates us all, without distinction
of sex or color, to the ranks of "miserable sinners." Let each one do what seemeth right in
her own eyes, provided she does not encroach on the rights of others.

In May, 1896, I again went to Geneva and found the bicycle craze had reached there, with all
its most pronounced symptoms; old and young, professors, clergymen, and ladies of fashion were
all spinning merrily around on business errands, social calls, and excursions to distant towns.
Driving down the avenue one day, we counted eighty bicycles before reaching the post-office.
The ancient bandbox, so detested by our sires and sons, has given place to this new machine
which our daughters take with them wheresoever they go, boxing and unboxing and readjusting
for each journey. It has been a great blessing to our girls in compelling them to cultivate
their self-reliance and their mechanical ingenuity, as they are often compelled to mend the
wheel in case of accident. Among the visitors at Geneva were Mr. Douglass and his daughter
from the island of Cuba. They gave us very sad accounts of the desolate state of the island
and the impoverished condition of the people. I had long felt that the United States should
interfere in some way to end that cruel warfare, for Spain has proved that she is incompetent
to restore order and peace.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: Part II. of "The Woman's Bible," which completes the work, will be issued in January,
1898.]

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MY EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

Without my knowledge or consent, my lifelong friend, Susan B. Anthony, who always seems to
appreciate homage tendered to me more highly than even to herself, made arrangements for the
celebration of my eightieth birthday, on the 12th day of November, 1895. She preferred that
this celebration should be conducted by the National Council of Women, composed of a large
number of organizations representing every department of woman's labor, though, as the enfranchisement
of woman had been my special life work, it would have been more appropriate if the celebration
had been under the auspices of the National Woman's Suffrage Association.

Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson, President of the National Council of Women, assumed the financial
responsibility and the extensive correspondence involved, and with rare tact, perseverance,
and executive ability made the celebration a complete success. In describing this occasion
I cannot do better than to reproduce, in part, Mrs. Dickinson's account, published in The Arena:

"In the month of June, 1895, the National Council of Women issued the following invitation:

"'Believing that the progress made by women in the last half century may be promoted by a more
general notice of their achievements, we propose to hold, in New York city, a convention for
this purpose. As an appropriate time for such a celebration, the eightieth birthday of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton has been chosen. Her half century of pioneer work for the rights of women makes
her name an inspiration for such an occasion and her life a fitting object for the homage of
all women.

"'This National Council is composed of twenty organizations; these and all other societies
interested are invited to co-operate in grateful recognition of the debt the present generation
owes to the pioneers of the past. From their interest in the enfranchisement of women, the
influence of Mrs. Stanton and her coadjutor, Miss Anthony, has permeated all departments of
progress and made them a common center round which all interested in woman's higher development
may gather.'

"To this invitation came responses, from the Old World and the New, expressing sympathy with
the proposed celebration, which was intended to emphasize a great principle by showing the
loftiness of character that had resulted from its embodiment in a unique personality. The world
naturally thinks of the personality before it thinks of the principle. It has, at least, so
much unconscious courtesy left as to honor a noble woman, even when failing to rightly apprehend
a noble cause. To afford this feeling its proper expression, to render more tangible all vague
sympathy, to crystallize the growing sentiment in favor of human freedom, to give youth the
opportunity to reverence the glory of age, to give hearts their utterances in word and song
was perhaps the most popular purpose of the reunion. In other words, it gave an opportunity
for those who revered Mrs. Stanton as a queen among women to show their reverence, and to recognize
the work her life had wrought, and to see in it an epitome of the progress of a century.

"The celebration was also an illustration of the distinctive idea of the National Council of
Women, which aims to give recognition to all human effort without demanding uniformity of opinion
as a basis of co-operation. It claims to act upon a unity of service, notwithstanding differences
of creed and methods. The things that separate, shrank back into the shadows where they belong,
and all hearts brave enough to think, and tender enough to feel, found it easy to unite in
homage to a life which had known a half century of struggle to lift humanity from bondage and
womanhood from shame.

"This reunion was the first general recognition of the debt the present owes to the past. It
was the first effort to show the extent to which later development has been inspired and made
possible by the freedom to think and work claimed in that earlier time by women like Lucretia
Mott, Lucy Stone, Mrs. Stanton, and many others whose names stand as synonyms of noble service
for the race. To those who looked at the reunion from this point of view it could not fail
of inspiration.

"For the followers in lines of philanthropic work to look in the faces and hear the voices
of women like Clara Barton and Mary Livermore; for the multitude enlisted in the crowded ranks
of literature to feel in the living presence, what literature owes to women like Julia Ward
Howe; for the white ribbon army to turn from its one great leader of to-day whose light, spreading
to the horizon, does not obscure or dim the glory of the crusade leaders of the past; for art
lovers and art students to call to mind sculptors like Harriet Hosmer and Anna Whitney, and
remember the days when art was a sealed book to women; for the followers of the truly divine
art of healing to honor the Blackwell sisters and the memory of Mme. Clemence Lozier; for the
mercy of surgery to reveal itself in the face of Dr. Cushier, who has proved for us that heart
of pity and hand of skill need never be divorced; for women lifting their eyes to meet the
face of Phebe A. Hanaford and Anna Shaw and other women who to-day in the pulpit, as well as
out of it, may use a woman's right to minister to needy souls; for the ofttime sufferers from
unrighteous law to welcome women lawyers; for the throng of working women to read backward
through the story of four hundred industries to their beginning in the 'four,' and remember
that each new door had opened because some women toiled and strove; for all these the exercises
were a part of a great thanksgiving paean, each phase of progress striking its own chord, and
finding each its echo in the hearts that held it dear.

"To the student of history, or to him who can read the signs of the times, there was such a
profound significance in this occasion as makes one shrink from dwelling too much upon the
external details. Yet as a pageant only it was a most inspiring sight, and one truly worthy
of a queen. Indeed as we run the mind back over the pages of history, what queen came to a
more triumphant throne in the hearts of a grateful people? What woman ever before sat silver-crowned,
canopied with flowers, surrounded not by servile followers but by men and women who brought
to her court the grandest service they had wrought, their best thought crystallized in speech
and song. Greater than any triumphal procession that ever marked a royal passage through a
kingdom was it to know that in a score or more of cities, in many a village church on that
same night festive fires were lighted, and the throng kept holiday, bringing for tribute not
gold and gems but noblest aspirations, truest gratitude, and highest ideals for the nation
and the race.

"The great meeting was but one link in a chain; yet with its thousands of welcoming faces,
with its eloquence of words, with its offering of sweetest song from the children of a race
that once was bound but now is free, with its pictured glimpses of the old time and the new
flashing out upon the night, with the home voices offering welcome and gratitude and love,
with numberless greetings, from the great, true, brave souls of many lands, it was indeed a
wonderful tribute, worthy of the great warm heart of a nation that offered it, and worthy of
the woman so revered.

"It seemed fitting that Mme. Antoinette Sterling, who, twenty years ago, took her wonderful
voice away to England, where it won for her a unique place in the hearts of the nation, should,
on returning to her country, give her first service to the womanhood of her native land. 'I
am coming a week earlier,' so she had written, 'that my first work in my own beloved America
may be done for women. I am coming as a woman and not as an artist, and because I so glory
in that which the women of my country have achieved.' So when she sang out of her heart, 'O
rest in the Lord; wait patiently for him!' no marvel that it seemed to lift all listening hearts
to a recognition of the divine secret and source of power for all work.

"One charming feature of the entertainment was a series of pictures called 'Then and Now,'
each illustrating the change in woman's condition during the last fifty years. And after this,
upon the dimness there shone out, one after another, the names of noble women like Mary Lyon,
Maria Mitchell, Emma Willard, and many others who have passed away. Upon the shadows and the
silence broke Mme. Sterling's voice in Tennyson's 'Crossing the Bar.' And when this was over,
as with one voice, the whole audience sang softly 'Auld Lang Syne.'

"And last but not least should be mentioned the greetings that poured in a shower of telegrams
and letters from every section of the country, and many from over the sea. These expressions,
not only of personal congratulation for Mrs. Stanton, but utterances of gladness for the progress
in woman's life and thought, for the conditions, already so much better than in the past, and
for the hope for the future, would make of themselves a most interesting and wonderful chapter.
Among them may be mentioned letters from Lord and Lady Aberdeen, from Lady Henry Somerset and
Frances E. Willard, from Canon Wilberforce, and many others, including an address from thirty
members of the family of John Bright, headed by his brother, the Right Honorable Jacob Bright;
a beautifully engrossed address, on parchment, from the National Woman Suffrage Society of
Scotland, an address from the London Women's Franchise League, and a cablegram from the Bristol
Women's Liberal Association; a letter from the Women's Rights Society of Finland, signed by
its president, Baroness Gripenberg of Helsingfors; telegrams from the California Suffrage Pioneers;
and others from the Chicago Woman's Club, from the Toledo and Ohio Woman's Suffrage Society,
from the son of the Rev. Dr. William Ellery Channing, and a telegram and letter from citizens
and societies of Seneca Falls, New York, accompanied with flowers and many handsome pieces
of silver from the different societies. There were also letters from Hon. Oscar S. Strauss,
ex-minister to Turkey, Miss Ellen Terry, and scores of others. An address was received from
the Women's Association of Utah, accompanied by a beautiful onyx and silver ballot box; and
from the Shaker women of Mount Lebanon came an ode; a solid silver loving cup from the New
York City Suffrage League, presented on the platform with a few appropriate words by its President,
Mrs. Devereux Blake.

"Hundreds of organizations and societies, both in this country and abroad, wished to have their
names placed on record as in sympathy with the movement. Many organizations were present in
a body, and one was reminded, by the variety and beauty of the decorations of their boxes,
of the Venetian Carnival, as the occupants gazed down from amid the silken banners and the
flowers, upon the throng below. The whole occasion was indeed a unique festival, unique in
its presentation, as well as in its purpose, plan, character, and spirit. No woman present
could fail to be impressed with what we owe to the women of the past, and especially to this
one woman who was the honored guest of the occasion. And no young woman could desire to forget
the picture of this aged form as, leaning upon her staff, Mrs. Stanton spoke to the great audience
of over six thousand, as she had spoken hundreds of times before in legislative halls, and
whenever her word could influence the popular sentiment in favor of justice for all mankind."

My birthday celebration, with all the testimonials of love and friendship I received, was an
occasion of such serious thought and deep feeling as I had never before experienced. Having
been accustomed for half a century to blame rather than praise, I was surprised with such a
manifestation of approval; I could endure any amount of severe criticism with complacency,
but such an outpouring of homage and affection stirred me profoundly. To calm myself during
that week of excitement, I thought many times of Michelet's wise motto, "Let the weal and woe
of humanity be everything to you, their praise and blame of no effect; be not puffed up with
the one nor cast down with the other."

Naturally at such a time I reviewed my life, its march and battle on the highways of experience,
and counted its defeats and victories. I remembered when a few women called the first convention
to discuss their disabilities, that our conservative friends said: "You have made a great mistake,
you will be laughed at from Maine to Texas and beyond the sea; God has set the bounds of woman's
sphere and she should be satisfied with her position." Their prophecy was more than realized;
we were unsparingly ridiculed by the press and pulpit both in England and America. But now
many conventions are held each year in both countries to discuss the same ideas; social customs
have changed; laws have been modified; municipal suffrage has been granted to women in England
and some of her colonies; school suffrage has been granted to women in half of our States,
municipal suffrage in Kansas, and full suffrage in four States of the Union. Thus the principle
scouted in 1848 was accepted in England in 1870, and since then, year by year, it has slowly
progressed in America until the fourth star shone out on our flag in 1896, and Idaho enfranchised
her women! That first convention, considered a "grave mistake" in 1848, is now referred to
as "a grand step in progress."

My next mistake was when, as president of the New York State Woman's Temperance Association,
I demanded the passage of a statute allowing wives an absolute divorce for the brutality and
intemperance of their husbands. I addressed the Legislature of New York a few years later when
a similar bill was pending, and also large audiences in several of our chief cities, and for
this I was severely denounced. To-day fugitives from such unholy ties can secure freedom in
many of the Western States, and enlightened public sentiment sustains mothers in refusing to
hand down an appetite fraught with so many evil consequences. This, also called a "mistake"
in 1860, was regarded as a "step in progress" a few years later.

Again, I urged my coadjutors by speeches, letters, and resolutions, as a means of widespread
agitation, to make the same demands of the Church that we had already made of the State. They
objected, saying, "That is too revolutionary, an attack on the Church would injure the suffrage
movement." But I steadily made the demand, as opportunity offered, that women be ordained to
preach the Gospel and to fill the offices as elders, deacons, and trustees. A few years later
some of these suggestions were accepted. Some churches did ordain women as pastors over congregations
of their own, others elected women deaconesses, and a few churches allowed women, as delegates,
to sit in their conferences. Thus this demand was in a measure honored and another "step in
progress" taken.

In 1882 I tried to organize a committee to consider the status of women in the Bible, and the
claim that the Hebrew Writings were the result of divine inspiration. It was thought very presumptuous
for women not learned in languages and ecclesiastical history to undertake such work. But as
we merely proposed to comment on what was said of women in plain English, and found these texts
composed only one-tenth of the Old and New Testaments, it did not seem to me a difficult or
dangerous undertaking. However, when Part I. of "The Woman's Bible" was published, again there
was a general disapproval by press and pulpit, and even by women themselves, expressed in resolutions
in suffrage and temperance conventions. Like other "mistakes," this too, in due time, will
be regarded as "a step in progress."

Such experiences have given me confidence in my judgment, and patience with the opposition
of my coadjutors, with whom on so many points I disagree. It requires no courage now to demand
the right of suffrage, temperance legislation, liberal divorce laws, or for women to fill church
offices--these battles have been fought and won and the principle governing these demands conceded.
But it still requires courage to question the divine inspiration of the Hebrew Writings as
to the position of woman. Why should the myths, fables, and allegories of the Hebrews be held
more sacred than those of the Assyrians and Egyptians, from whose literature most of them were
derived? Seeing that the religious superstitions of women perpetuate their bondage more than
all other adverse influences, I feel impelled to reiterate my demands for justice, liberty,
and equality in the Church as well as in the State.

The birthday celebration was to me more than a beautiful pageant; more than a personal tribute.
It was the dawn of a new day for the Mothers of the Race! The harmonious co-operation of so
many different organizations, with divers interests and opinions, in one grand jubilee was,
indeed, a heavenly vision of peace and hope; a prophecy that with the exaltation of Womanhood
would come new Life, Light, and Liberty to all mankind.

INDEX OF NAMES.

       *       *       *       *       *
Aberdeen, Lord and Lady,
Addington, Laura,
Albert, Prince,
Alcott, A. Bronson,
Alcott, Louisa M.,
Allison, Miss,
Amberly, Lord and Lady,
Ames, Mary Clemmer,
Anderson, Dr. Garrett,
André, Major John,
Andrews, Governor John A.,
Anthony, Daniel,
Anthony, Senator Henry B.,
Anthony, Lucy,
Anthony, Mary,
Anthony, Susan B.,
Arnold, General Benedict,
Arnold, Matthew,
Astor, John Jacob,
Auchet, Hubertine,
Austin, Dr. Harriet N.,
Ayer, Mrs. J.C.,

Backus, Wealthea, Bagley, Governor, Bagley, Mrs., Baird, General, Baldwin, Elizabeth McMartin,
Balgarnie, Miss, Banning, Ella B., Banning, William L., Barclay, Cornelia, Barrau, Caroline
de, Bartlett, Paul, Barton, Clara, Bascom, Mr., Bascora, Mary, Bayard, Dr. Edward, Bayard,
Henry, Bayard, Thomas F., Bayard, Tryphena Cady, Beach, Myron, Beaman, Rev. Dr., Becker, Lydia,
Beecher, Catharine, Beecher, Rev. Henry Ward, Bellamy, Edward, Bellows, Rev. Henry, Benedict,
Lewis, Bently, Judge, Berry, Mme., Berry, Marguerite, Berry, Mrs., Bertaux, Mme. Léon, Besant,
Annie, Bickerdyke, Mother, Biddle, Chapman, Biddle, George, Biggs, Caroline, Bigelow, John,
Bigelow, Mrs. John, Bingham, John A., Bird, Frank W., Birney, James Gr., Bjornson, Bjornstjorne,
Blackburn, Miss, Blackwell, Antoinette Brown, Blackwell, Dr. Elizabeth, Blackwell, H.B., Blaine,
Senator James G., Blaine, Mrs. James G., Blair, Senator Henry W., Blake, Lillie Devereux, Blatch,
Harriot Stanton, Blatch, Nora Stanton, Blatch, William H., Blavatsky, Mme., Bloomer, Amelia,
Bogelot, Isabella, Bogue, Rev. Dr., Bonaparte, Napoleon, Botta, Anne Lynch, Boucherett, Jessie,
Bowles, Samuel, Bradburn, George, Bradlaugh, Hon. Charles, M, P., Bradwell, Myra, Bright, Hon.
Jacob, M.P., Bright, Mrs. Jacob, Bright, Hon. John, M.P., Broomall, John M., Brougham, Henry,
Lord, Brown, Antoinette L., Brown, John, Brown, Olympia, Brown, Mr., Browne, Sir Thomas, M.D.,
Browning, Robert, Brownson, Orestes A., Bryan, William J.. Bryant, Miss, Bryant, William Cullen,
Bullard, Laura Curtis, Burlingame, Anson, Burleigh, Celia, Burleigh, Mrs. William, Burnet,
Rev. J., Burr, Frances Ellen, Burroughs, Herbert, Busbey, L. White, Bushnell, Horace, Butler,
General Benjamin F., Butler, Josephine, Byron, Lady, Byron, Lord,

Cabot, Frederick, Cady, Judge Daniel, Cady, Eleazer, Cady, Margaret Livingston, Caird, Mona,
Cameron, Judge Hugh, Carlisle, Lora and Lady, Carlyle, Thomas, Carnegie, Andrew, Carroll, Anna,
Cary, Alice, Cary, Phoebe, Channing, Rev. Dr. William Ellery, Channing, Dr. William F., Channing,
Rev. William Henry, Chant, Ormiston, Chapman, Maria, Chase, William, Cheever, Rev. George B.,
Child, Lydia Maria, Choate, Joseph H., Christie, Margaret, Clark, Helen Bright, Clarkson, Thomas,
Cleveland, Grover, Clinton, Governor De Witt C, Cluseret, General, Cobb, Mr. and Mrs., Cobbe,
Frances Power, Cobden, Jane, Cochrane, James, Cochrane, General John, Cochrane, Mary, Colby,
Clara B., Cole, Senator Cornelius, Coleridge, Lady, Collyer, Rev. Robert, Combe, Andrew, Comte,
Auguste, Conkling, Judge Alfred, Conkling, Roscoe, Conway, Rev. Moncure D., Conway, Mrs. Moncure
D., Cooley, Judge Thomas M., Couzins, Phoebe W., Croly, Jennie C, Crowninshield, Captain A.S.,
Crowninshield, Mary, Cox, S.S., Coxe, Bishop, Curtis, George William, Cushier, Dr., Cushman,
Charlotte,

Dana, Charles A., Dana, Eunice MacDaniel, Darling, Anna B., Darlington, Chandler, Darlington,
Hannah, Davis, Edward M., Davis. Paulina Wright, Davitt, Michael. Depesyrons, Professor, Deraismes,
Mme. Féresse, Deraismes, Maria, Dickinson, Anna E., Dickinson, Mary Lowe, Dietrick, Ellen Battelle,
Dilke, Mrs. Ashton, Dilke, Sir Charles, Dix, Dorothy, L., Dix, General John A., Douglass, Frederick,
Douglass, Mr., Dowden, Professor, Dudley, Blandina Bleecker, Dumas, Alexandre, Durand, Mme.
M.E., Dyer, Charles Gifford, Dyer, Hella,

Eaton, Professor Amos B., Eaton, Daniel C, Eaton, Harriet Cady, Eddy, Miss, Eddy, Mrs. Jackson,
s Edmunds, Senator George F., Eliot, George, Euet, Elizabeth F., Ellsler, Fanny, Elmy, Mrs.,
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, England, Isaac W., England, Mrs. Isaac W., Everett, Charles,

Fabre, Senator Joseph, Fairchild, Governor Lucius, Faithful, Emily, Farnham, Mrs.. Fawcett,
Henry, M.P., Fawcett, Milicent J., Ferry, Jules, Ferry, Senator Thomas W., Field, Rev. Dr.
Henry M., Field, Kate, Fine, Judge, Finney, Rev. Charles G., Fitzhugh, Ann Carroll, Fitzhugh,
Miss, Folsom, Abigail, Forbes, Arethusa, Forney, John W., Foster, Abby Kelly, Foster, Rachel,
Foster, Stephen, Frederic, Harold, Fremont, General John C, French, Daniel C, Frothingham,
Rev. O.B., Fronde, James Anthony, Fry, Elizabeth, Fuller, Kate, Fuller, Margaret, Fuller, W.J.A.,
Furness, Rev. William H.,

Gage, Frances Dana, Gage, Matilda Joslyn, Gardener, Helen H., Garibaldi, General G., Garrison,
Gertrude, Garrison, William Lloyd, Garrison, Mrs. W.L., Gay, Sidney Howard, Geddes, Mr., George,
Henry, Gestefeld, Ursula N., Gibbons, Abby Hopper, Gillespie, Mrs., Gladstone, Right Hon.,
William E., Gladstone, Mrs. W.E., Godwin, Mary Wollstonecraft, Godwin, William, Grant, General,
Ulysses S., Greeley, Horace, Greeley, Mrs. Horace, Greene, Beriah, Greenough, Mrs. W.H., Greenwood,
Grace, Gréville, Henri, Grévy, President Jules, Grévy, Mme. Jules, Grew, Mary, Grey, Maria
G., Grimké, Angelina, Grimké, Sarah, Gripenberg, Baroness Alexandra, Gurney, John Joseph, Gurney,
Samuel, Gustafsen, Mrs.,

Hammond, Dr. William A., Hanaford, Rev. Phebe A., Harbert, Elizabeth Boynton, Harberton, Lady,
Harvey, Rev. A., Hawley, General Joseph R., Hawthorne, Nathaniel, Hazeltine, Mayo W., Heine,
Heinrich, Hertell, Judge Hertz, Fannie, Hicks, Elias, Higginson, Thomas Wentworth, Hill, Octavia,
Hill, President, Hinckley, Rev. Frederick A., Hoar, Senator George F., Hoggan, Dr. Frances
E., Hoisington, Rev. William, Holmes, Oliver Wendell, Hooker, Isabella Beecher, Holyoake, George
Jacob, Hosack, Rev. Simon, Hoskins, Frances, Hosmer, Harriet, Hovey, Charles, Howe, Julia Ward,
Howell, Judge, Howell, Mary Seymour, Howells, William D., Howells, Mrs. William D., Howitt,
Mary, Hudson, Harriet, Hugo, Victor, Hunt, Jane, Hunt, Dr. Harriet K., Hunt, Judge Ward, Hunt,
Richard, Hurlbert, Judge, Huron, Mr., Hutchinson, Family, Hutchins, Mr., Hyacinthe, Père,

Ingersoll, Robert G.,

Jackson, Francis, Jackson, Dr. James, Jackson, Dr. Kate, Jackson, Mr. and Mrs., Jackson, Mrs.,
Jacobi, Dr. Mary Putnam, Jameson, Anna, Janes, Bishop, Jarvis, Helen, Jenckes, Thomas A., Jenkins,
Lydia, Jenney, Mr. and Mrs., Johnson, Adelaide, Johnson, Mariana, Johnson, Oliver, Johnson,
Sir William, Joly, Professor Nicholas, Jones, Phoebe, June, Jennie,

Kelley, William D., Kelley, Abby, Kennan, George, Kent, Chancellor, Kergomard, Pauline, Kilpatrick,
General, Kimber, Abby, King, Captain Charles, Kingsford, Anna, Kingsley, Canon Charles, Klumpke,
Anna, Krapotkine, Prince,

Laboulaye, Edouard R.L., LaFayette, Marquis de, Lampson, Father, Lapham, Anson, Lauterbach,
Mrs. Edward, Lawrence, Frank E., Lawrence, Margaret Stanton, Lawson, Sir Wilfrid, Leavitt,
Joshua, Lecky, W.E.H., Lee, Richard Henry, Lee, Theresa, Lieneff, Mr., Lincoln, Abraham, Livermore,
Mary A., Livingston, Colonel James, Livingston, Margaret, Livingston, Mary, Logan, Olive, Long,
Governor John D., Longfellow, Henry W., Longfellow, Rev. Samuel, Lord, Dr., Lord, Emily, Lord,
Frances, Louis Philippe, Lowell, James Russell, Lozier, Dr. Clemence S., Lucas, Margaret Bright,
Lyon, Mary,

McClintock, Elizabeth, McClintock, Mary Ann, McKeon, Judge, McLaren, Charles, McLaren, Mrs.
Charles, McLaren, Hon. Duncan, M.P., McLaren, Priscilla Bright, McLaren, Walter, McMartin,
Donald, McMartin, Duncan, McMartin, Margaret Cady, MacDaniel, Eunice, MacDaniel, Frances L.,
MacDaniel, Osborne, Macaulay, Thomas Babbington, Maire, Rev. Hugh, Mann, Horace, Mann, Prestona,
Mansfield, Lord Chief Justice, Mansfield, Mrs. A.A., Marsh, Luther R., Martineau, Harriet,
Massey, Gerald, May, Rev. Samuel J., Mellen, Mrs. William, Mendenhall, Dinah, Meredith, George,
Michel, Louise, Michelet, Jules, Milinowski, Captain Arthur, Mill, John Stuart, Mill, Mrs.
John Stuart, Miller, Charles Dudley, Miller, Colonel, Miller, Elizabeth Smith, Miller, Gerrit
Smith, Miller, Jenness, Miller, John B., Miller, Judge, Miller, Justice Samuel F., Minor, Virginia
L., Mitchell, Dr. Julia, Mitchell, Dr. Kate, Mitchell, Professor Maria, Moffett, Rev. Dr.,
Moliner, Professor, Morley, John, Morpeth, Lord, Morris, William, Morrison, Cotton, Morsier,
Emilie de, Morton, Edwin, Mott, Lucretia, Mott, Lydia, Moulton, Louise Chandler, Moulton, Mrs.,
Müller, Eva, Müller, Henrietta, Murray, Eliza, in,

Napoleon, Neal, Elizabeth, Nichol, Elizabeth Pease,

O'Connell, Daniel,  go, O'Conor, Charles, Olmstead, Rev. John W., Olmstead, Mary Livingston,
Opie, Amelia, Orr, Mrs., Osborne, Eliza W., O'Shea, Mrs. Kitty, Owen, Robert Dale,

Palmer, Senator John M., Parker, Margaret, Parker, Theodore, Parkhurst, Mrs., Parnell, Charles
Stewart, Parsons, Chauncey C, Parsons, Mrs. Chauncey C, Patton, Rev. Dr., Peabody, Elizabeth,
Pearson, Karl, Pease, Elizabeth, Phelps, Elizabeth B., Phillips, Ann Green, Phillips, Wendell,
Pierpont, John, Pillsbury, Parker, Plumb, Senator Preston B., Pochin, Mrs., Pomeroy, "Brick,"
Powell, Aaron, Powell, Professor, Priestman, Annie, Priestman, Mary, Pugh, Sarah,

Quincy, Edmund,

Ramsey, Mr., Reid, Mrs. Hugo, Remond, Charles, Richer, Léon, Richter, Jean Paul Friedrich,
Ripley, George, Ripley, Mrs. George, Richardson, Abby Sage, Ristori, Marchionesse Adelaide,
Robinson, Governor Charles, Roby, Matilda, Rogers, Caroline Gilkey, Rogers, Nathaniel P., Roland,
Mme., Rosa, Mr., Rose, Ernestine L., Root, Elihu, Rouvier, M., Runkle, Mrs., Ruskin, John,

Sackett, Fudge Gerrit V., Sage, Russell, Sage, Mrs. Russell, Sanborn, Frank, Sanders, Mrs.
Henry M., Sargent, Senator Aaron A., Sargent, Mrs. Aaron A., Saville, Mrs., Scatcherd, Alice
Cliff, Scatcherd, Mr., Schenck, Elizabeth B., Schenck, Robert C, Scoble, Rev. John, Seaman,
Mr., Seidl, Professor, Sewall, May Wright, Sewall, Samuel E., Sewall, Mrs. Samuel E., Seward,
Governor William H., Seward, Mrs. William H., Shaftesbury, Lord, Shaw, Rev. Anna, Shelley,
Percy Bysshe, Shelley, Percy Florence, Smalley, George W., Smith, Ann Carroll Fitzhugh, Smith,
Elizabeth Oakes, Smith, Gerrit, Smith, Greene, Smith, Professor Horace, Smith, Mrs. Horace,
Smith, Peter Sken, Smith, Sidney, Smith, Sisters, Somerset, Lady Henry, Southwick, Abby, Southwick,
Joseph, Southwick. Thankful, Southworth, Louisa, Spaulding, Bishop, Spence, Clara, Spencer,
John C, Spencer, Sarah Andrews, Spofford, Jane Snow, Spofford, Mr., Sprague, Governor William,
Staël, Mme. de, Stanford, Senator Leland, Stanley, Dean, Stansfeld, Mr., M.P., Stanton, Hon.
Daniel Cady, Stanton, Edwin M., Stanton, Elizabeth Cady, Granddaughter of author, Stanton,
Hon. Gerrit Smith, Stanton, Harriot Eaton, Stanton, Henry, Stanton, Hon. Henry Brewster, Stanton,
Margaret Livingston, Stanton, Marguerite Berry, Stanton, Robert Livingston, Stanton, Theodore,
Stead, William T., Stebbins, Catharine F., Stebbins, Giles, Stebbins, Mrs., Steinthal, Rev.
Mr., Stepniak, Sterling, Antoinette, Stevens, Thaddeus, Stevenson, Robert Louis, Stewart, Alvin,
Stone, Lucy, Stout, Rev. C., Stowe, Harriet Beecher, Straus, Oscar S., Stuart, Charles, Stuart,
Dr. Jacob H., Stuart, Mrs. Jacob H., Stuart, Professor, Sturge, Joseph, Sumner, Charles, Sutherland,
Duchess of, Swift, Isabella, Swift, Lieutenant,

Tanner, Mrs., Taylor, Helen, Taylor, Mrs. Peter A., Terry, Ellen, Thacher, Mayor, Thomson,
Adeline, Thomasson, Hon. John P., M. P., Thomasson, Mrs. John P., Thompkins, Governor Daniel
D., Thompson, George, Thompson, May Wright, Tilton, Theodore, Train, George Francis, Traut,
Mme. Griess, Tree, Ellen, Tudor, Mrs. Fenno, Tyler, Professor, Moses Coit, Tyng, Dr. Stephen,

Underhill, Zoe Dana,

Van Vechten, Abraham, Vest, Senator George G., Victoria, Queen, Vignon, Claude, Villard, Fanny
Garrison, Villard, Henry, Vincent, Henry, Virchow, Professor,

Waite, Chief Justice Morrison R., Walter, Ellen Cochrane, Walsingham, Sir Francis, "Warrington,"
Washington, General George, Weed, Thurlow, Weld, Angelina Grimke, Weld, Theodore D., Wellington,
Duke of, Wells, Emeline B., West, Benjamin, Weston, Deborah, Whipple, E.P., Whitney, Anna,
Whittier, John G., Whittle, Dr. Ewing, Wigham, Eliza, Wigham, Jane, Wilberforce, Canon, Wilberforce,
William, Wilbour, Charlotte Beebe, Wilkeson, Catherine Cady, Wilkeson, Samuel, Willard, Amelia,
Willard, Emma, Willard, Frances E., Willard, Mrs. John, Williams, Senator C.G., Williams, Elisha,
Wilson, Daniel, Winckworth, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen, Winslow, Emily, Woodhull, Victoria, Wollstonecraft,
Mary, Woodward, Mr., Worden, Mrs., Wright, David, Wright, Frances, Wright, Henry C., Wright,
Martha C., Wright, Mr., Wright, Paulina,

Yost, Elizabeth W., Yost, Maria,

Zackesewska, Dr. M.E.,

[Portions of Chapters X. and XI. of this book are taken by permission from an article written
by Mrs. Stanton for "Our Famous Women," published by A.D. Worthington & Co.]