IV. Salisbury.--We have not the least desire to magnify this into a mighty victory for the
Conservative party; but the interference of the Anti-corn-law League certainly made the struggle
a very critical and important one. We expected to succeed, but not by a large majority; for
ever since 1832, the representation had (till within the last year) been divided between a
Conservative and a Liberal. However, the Anti-corn-law League, flushed with their "triumphs"
at London and Kendal, flung all their forces ostentatiously into the borough, and exhibited
a disgusting and alarming specimen of the sort of interference which it seems we are to expect
in all future elections, in all counties and boroughs. It was, however, in vain; the ambitious
young gentleman who had the benefit of their services, and who is a law-student in London,
but the son of the great Earl of Radnor, lost his election by a large majority, and the discomfited
League retired ridiculously to Manchester. When we heard of their meditated descent upon Salisbury,
we fancied we saw Cobden and his companions waddling back, geese-like, and exclaimed--

      "Geese! if we had you but on Sarum plain,
      We'd drive you cackling back to Camelot!"

So much for the boasted electoral triumphs of the Anti-corn-law League--we repeat, that they
are all mere moonshine, and challenge them to disprove our assertion.

They are now making another desperate effort to raise a further sum of a hundred thousand pounds;
and beginning, as usual, at Manchester, have raised there alone, within a few days' time, upwards
of L.20,000! The fact (if true) is at once ludicrous and disgusting: ludicrous for its transparency
of humbug--disgusting for its palpable selfishness. Will these proverbially hard-hearted men
put down their L.100, L.200, L.300, L.400, L.500, for nothing? Alas, the great sums they have
expended in this crusade against the Corn-laws, will have to be wrung out of their wretched
and exhausted factory slaves! For how otherwise but by diminishing wages can they repay themselves
for lost time, for trouble, and for expense?

Looked at in its proper light, the Corn-law League is nothing but an abominable conspiracy
against labour. Cheap bread means cheap labour; those who cannot see this, must be blind indeed!
The melancholy fact of the continually-decreasing price of labour in this country, rests on
undisputable authority--on, amongst others, that of Mr Fielding. In 1825, the price of labour
was 51 per cent less than in 1815; in 1830 it was 65 per cent less than in 1815, though the
consumption of cotton had increased from 80,000,000 lbs. to 240,000,000 lbs.! In 1835 it was
318,000,000 lbs., but the operative received 70 per cent less than in 1815. In 1840 the consumption
of cotton was 415,000,000 lbs., and the unhappy operative received 75 per cent less than in 1815!

If proofs be required to show that in reality the deadly snake, cheap labour, lurks among the
flourishing grass, cheap bread, we will select one or two out of very many now lying before
us, and prepared to be presented to the reader.

"If grain be high," said Mr Ricardo, in the House of Commons,[31] "the price of labour would
necessarily be a deduction from the profits of stock." "The Corn-laws raise the price of sustenance--that
has raised the price of labour; which, of course, diminishes the profit in capital."[32]

    [31] Debates, May 30, 1820.

    [32] Ib. Dec. 24, 1819.

"Until the price of food in this country," said Mr Hume, in the House of Commons on the 12th
of May last, in the presence of all the leading free-trade members, "is placed on a level with
that on the Continent, it will be impossible for us to compete with the growing manufactures
of Belgium, Germany, France, and America!!"

Hear a member of the League, and of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, Mr G. Sandars:--

