The Meeting then broke up in some confusion, as the Chairman, having removed his boots during
the proceedings, was unable to propose the customary vote of thanks to Professor JAMBES, who
left the hall in a state of considerable excitement in consequence.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Art Kaleidoscope may undoubtedly be found at 160, New Bond Street, where the Messrs. DOWDESWELLS
are everlastingly giving it a turn. Before you have time to get tired of one show, the turn
is made, and another reigns in its place. Yesterday it was Royal Berkshire, to-day it is pictures
principally of the French School. There are some fine works by COROT, which, however, did not
justify a weak-minded critic in calling the show "the Corotid Art-ery." Also examples of MONTICELLI,
SEGANTINI the Italian, DAUBIGNY, TROYON, MUHRMAN, and other notable painters.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ONLY REMEDY.

  Pity a poor Home Secretary! Verily
  His days are hard, his nights can scarce wag merrily;
    But of all burdens on his mind distracted,
  Greatest must be that dread responsibility
  Where sense of justice wars with sensibility.
    Punch hardly thinks the two have interacted
  This time with quite ideal force and fitness,
  And that the Public doubts, let the Press witness!

  A loathsome story, sordid, brutal, sickening!
  Dull callousness to smug contrition quickening
    Under the spur of an ignoble terror,
  A hope scarce less ignoble--in expression,
  At least. Yes, calm judicial self-possession
    Is difficult, most easy trimming error;
  But compromise with claims conflicting here,
  Is scarce the course of equity one must fear.

  The logic of it does not stand forth clearly;
  The public conscience fidgets, and feels queerly.
    Yes, to be arbiter, by law's compulsion,
  In such a case, with issues so immense,
  Is hard, no doubt; the public common sense
    Against the arrangement turns with strong revulsion;
  And the right remedy, as all must feel,
  Is in a Court of Criminal Appeal!

  I love you so! I love you so!
    It's funny, but I do--
  In spite of what my parents know,
    And what they say, of you!
  No honest folks will near you go--
    But wherefore should I shrink?
  I only know I love you so,
    Whatever they may think!

  I love you so! I love you so!
    As I have sung before--
  Although the heart you have to show
    Is rotten to the core!
  They say you oft to prison go;
    But wherefore my dismay?
  I only know I love you so!
    I don't care what they say!

  I love you so! I love you so!
    As I will sing again.
  (In face of all the bills you owe,
    It's awfully insane!)
  What boots it that you are my foe?
    Should that my passion mar?
  I only know I love you so!--
    No matter what you are!

  I love you so! I love you so!
    As still again I'll sing,
  And sing a thousand times, although
    You stole my ruby ring!
  But what care I for suchlike show,
    So long as I have thee?
  I love you so! I love you so!
    That's good enough for Me!

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE SWISS-BACK RAILWAY.

(By Our Easter Eggsperimentalist.)

I have no hesitation in asserting that Lynton and Lynmouth are frequently called the English
Switzerland. I have seen such an announcement made in the local Guide-books, and heard the
opinion adopted by many of the inhabitants. I am inclined to think that the name is not a misnomer,
for certainly the twin villages, with their miniature manor-houses and cottage-like country-seats,
are not unsuggestive of a German box of toys. But there is very little of the foreigner in
the inhabitants. Rarely have I seen so much enthusiasm exhibited as on the occasion of the
opening of the Cliff Railway, an event which came off on Easter Monday. The conveyance in question
was suggestive of the Switchback, or perhaps of the Swissback, when local surroundings are
taken into consideration. The inaugural programme was a long one. We had a procession, with
some eccentric mummers garbed as "Ancient Foresters," an opening ceremony, with a Royal salute,
fired by three Coastguardsmen, a banquet at the Valley of Rocks Hotel, life-boat exercise,
and, finally, a grand display of fireworks. I took part in every function. I applauded the
Ancient Foresters, in white beards and brown heads of hair. I was the earliest to use the railway.
I made a speech at the banquet, I helped to man the life-boat, and, finally, I was the first
to cry "O-o-o-o-o-h!" at the initial rocket of the grand display. So I think I may be allowed
to say that I know something about the place and its inhabitants. Imprimis, Lynton has an excellent
hotel, in the shape of the one to which I have already referred. Secondly, it has a great benefactor
in the person of worthy Mr. NEWNES, M. P., the genial and clever Chairman of the Cliff Railway
Company. Thirdly, the loveliness of the scenery is greatly enhanced by the fact that practically
there are no residents (probably not half a dozen) in the neighbourhood. It is true that there
is a villa here and there, but none of them is large enough in itself to spoil the effect of
the rocks, the cascades, and the mountain passes. I admit that when I went to Lynton I was
under the impression that I was going to take part in the inauguration of some score miles
of railway, opening out a new route to the Far West. That this was an erroneous idea was more
my fault than my misfortune. After trying on foot an ascent from Lynmouth to Lynton, I came
to the conclusion that this line of railway was of far greater importance than any other in
existence. That the track was rather less than a thousand feet, instead of being rather more
than a million miles, I considered merely a matter of detail. Should it be necessary some day
to dispense with the coach-journey from Barnstaple to Lynton--a journey which, on account of
the exercise in which the travellers are encouraged to indulge on foot, must be of the greatest
possible benefit to their health--why then the railway could be extended from point to point.
All that would be required would be proportionately computed additional capital. The formula
would run as follows:--If 900 feet of railway from Lynmouth to Lynton costs so much, 18 miles
of railway from Lynton to Barnstaple will cost so much more. The simplest thing in the world!
And with this practical suggestion for the future I conclude my report, with the observation
that the twin villages of Lynton and Lynmouth deserve the greatest possible prosperity. Nature,
represented by "Ragged Jack," the "Devil's Cheese Wring," and Watersmeet, is lovely beyond
compare; and Art could have no better illustration than that furnished by the unsurpassed resources
of the Valley of Rocks Hotel.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGHIE AND REGIE.--"On what sort of paper should a fellah who's awfully gone on a gal, don'tcher-know,
write to his mash, eh?" "Why--on--papier mashé, of course." "Thanks awfully." (Goes off to
get some.)

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's going to rain to-morrow," said Mrs. R., confidently--"I am sure of it, because I always
read Professor BEN NEVIS'S remarks in the Times. What a clever man he is, and how useful!"

       *       *       *       *       *

NOMENCLATURE.--Isn't it the place par excellence where umbrellas and waterproofs are in request?
If not, why call it, Hayling Island?

       *       *       *       *       *

"IN THE KNOW."

(By Mr. Punch's Prophet.)

The collapse of Gasbag can have surprised no careful reader of these columns. His public performances
have been uniformly wretched, save and except on the one occasion when he defeated Ranunculus
in the Decennial Pedigree Stakes at Newmarket last year, and any fool could have seen that
Ranunculus had an off hind fetlock as big as an elephant's. That comes of training a good horse
on Seidlitz powders and bran-mash. The muddy-minded moon-calves who chatter in their usual
addle-pated fashion about the chances of Jimjams, ought to deceive nobody now that their insane
folly has been exposed by me for about the thousandth time; but the general public is such
a blathering dunderheaded ass that it prefers to trust itself to the guidance of men like Mr.
JEREMY, who knows as much about a horse as he does about the Thirty-nine Articles. If Jimjams,
with 9 lbs. advantage and a thousand sovereigns of added money, could only run a bad second
to Blue Ruin, who, on the following day, romped in from The Ratcatcher in a common canter,--The
Ratcatcher having simply spread-eagled The Parson over the old D. T. course, when the ground
was as heavy as Rotten Row in April,--how in the name of common sense can Jimjams be expected
to show up against high-class yearlings like Ballarat and Tifftoff on the Goodwin Sands, T.
Y. C.? The whole thing is only another instance of the hare-brained imbecility and downright
puddling folly with which the cackling herd will follow any brazen-headed nincompoop who sets
up to advise them on turf matters. Jimjams has just as much chance of winning this race as
Mr. JEREMY has of being Archbishop of Canterbury. Verb. sap. At any rate my readers will not
be able to reproach me with not warning them in time.

The latest rumour is that Mrs. Grundy has gone lame after her trial with The Vicar. As I always
predicted her break-down, I cannot say I am surprised, though I must own I should like to know
what the pestilential pantaloons think of themselves who have been for months advising us to
invest our money upon her. All BOOZING BILLY'S stock have come to grief, sooner or later. I
thought Lord SOFTED was a fool to give £5,000 for such a mangy-coated weed as Mrs. Grundy.
Now I know it.

Those who want a good thing ought to keep their eyes on Toothpick. When he met Pepperpot, at
a stone less than weight for age, with a baby on his back, at Esher last year, the betting
being then 20 to 7 against the Harkaway filly, he showed what his true form was. Pepperpot,
of course, is a rank impostor, but a careful man might do worse than put a spare threepenny-bit
on Toothpick, who always runs better in a snow-storm. As for Dutchman, everybody knows he's
not a flyer, and only a man whose brains are made of fish-sauce could recommend him.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"WANTED A WORD!"--Lord BURY wants a word to express electric action. Anything Lord BURY deals
with should be of grave import. Attempting to find a new verb is quite an undertaking--to BURY.
How would "bury" do? "We buried him;" meaning, "we electrified him." "We went along Bury well;"
meaning, "the progress caused by electricity was satisfactory." "We 'Buried along' at a great
rate," and so forth.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROOKY WALKER!

