At last, one day, about the first of November, he remained in his bunk in the cabin, unable
to come down to the claim. In their rough, uncouth way they pitied him, and would have given
anything they could command to be able to relieve him. But they seemed instinctively to feel
that his case was something out of their reach, and with the exception of a weak suggestion
from Jones, that he should try some of "them ar antibilious pills as he had in his box," no
course of medical treatment was contemplated. Besides, was he not himself a doctor? and if
he could do nothing, what should they be able to effect? The argument was sufficiently conclusive;
at least, Jones accepted it as such, and retired in some confusion, comforting himself by the
perusal of the label on his box of pills, which really seemed to justify the suggestion he
had made. Twice after this, on days when the warm sunshine tempted him out of doors, he came
down to the claim and sat by the wheel and watched them working; but he never did any more
work. He did not tell them he could not do it, or complain that he was too weak: it was tacitly
understood that his share of the season's labor was over.

About the middle of November the winter stepped in in its sudden way and commenced to take
possession of the valley of the Blue, and by the first of December the ice was so thick that
the partners reluctantly stopped work. "Jones of Chihuahua" had expressed his determination
of going south to Santa Fé, to stay until spring among the "Greasers," but Old Platte and Thompson
would stay on the Blue for the winter, and to that end had laid in such provisions as were
deemed necessary. The settlement below on the Bar had been abandoned early in November; and
it was doubtful if a white man besides themselves could be found by its waters any nearer than
the end of the Great Cañon of the Rio Colorado. But they cared very little for that, and looked
forward to their voluntary hibernation without any feeling of apprehension on the score of
loneliness. Both were hardy mountaineers. Thompson had been the first man that ever performed
the feat of crossing the range at Grey's Peak in the middle of winter, with the aid of a pair
of snow-shoes; and he and Old Platte knew that if their provisions gave out they could readily
reach some of the Clear Creek diggings in the same way. So Jones strapped his belt of gold-dust
around his waist and prepared to depart. He shook hands with the partners, and when Gentleman
Dick, with a forced cheeriness of manner and with wishes for a pleasant winter in New Mexico,
remarked, "Next spring the boys will give you a third of my share, Jones," he stoutly and earnestly
repudiated the implied idea, but with a confusion and uncertainty of manner that indicated
a serious doubt in the soundness of his own assertions.

Gentleman Dick released the big hand as he lay in his blankets, and said for the last time,
"Good-bye, Jones."

"Good-bye, old man."

Jones strode away abruptly on his journey, and if the moisture about his eyes was in excess
of what was required in their normal condition, it was probably due to the bracing and biting
frostiness of the morning air.

And so they resigned themselves to their winter's prison on the Blue--Old Platte stolidly and
contentedly, Thompson uneasily and restlessly, and Gentleman Dick peacefully and calmly, knowing
full well that spring would never bloom again for him. Thus the December days flew by, growing
colder and colder, and the snow-line crept gradually down the slopes of the range until it
reached the edge of the timber, where it seemed to pause for a few days in its advance. It
had already snowed several times in the valley, and the afternoon sun had always melted it
away; but they knew by experience that it would soon come down in good earnest and cover everything
up for the winter in a mantle of snow some six or seven feet deep. And as the days sped on
Gentleman Dick grew paler and paler, and his bright eyes shone with a brighter lustre, while
he seemed to be gradually slipping away, losing little by little his hold upon life. He was
a mystery to his companions, for he had no disease that could be detected, and why he should
sink thus without any apparent cause was more than they could understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wind came roaring down the cañon in wild, fierce gusts; the dead, frost-hardened, brittle
branches of the sturdy old pines rattled and cracked and broke as it swept by laden with glittering
crystals, stolen from the range above, where it circled madly around the snowy peaks, and whirled
away great winding-sheets of snow--fine, sleety snow, that filled the atmosphere with sharp
prickly needles, that made their way inside Old Platte's rough woolen shirt as he chopped away
at the woodpile, and made him shiver as they melted down his back. Everything was frozen hard
and fast; the Blue was silent in its bed; stones and sticks adhered to the ground as if part
and parcel of it, and each piece of wood in the pile that Old Platte was working at stood stiffly
and firmly in its place. The wind, just before a snow-storm, always comes down the cañons in
fierce premonitory gusts, and as it was desirable to get in a good stock of wood before the
snow-drifts gathered around the cabin, Old Platte had been hacking manfully for some hours.
The sun sunk low in the hollow of the hills to the westward while he was still working, and
lit up with a cold yellow glare the snowy wastes and icy peaks of the mighty mountains that
stood guard over the Blue. The whistling of the wind among the pines died gradually away, and
the silence that seemed to fall with the deepening shadows was only broken by the ringing strokes
of the axe and the crack of the splitting wood. When he ceased the valley had faded into darkness,
and the range with its sharp outlines was only faintly discernible against the sombre gray
pall that had overspread the sky.

He made a broad stack of logs by the fireplace and a larger one outside the door, and then
stood by the threshold to take a look at the weather. A great soft feather of snow came sailing
slowly down and nestled in his shaggy beard, and another fluttered on to the back of his hand.
He looked up through the darkness and saw that it was already beginning to fall thickly, and
then, with a self-satisfied glance of approval at his provident woodpile, went into the cabin
and fastened the door.

Thompson had shot a fine argal or Rocky Mountain sheep that morning, and the broiled steaks
were giving forth a most acceptable odor. He had tried to get Gentleman Dick to taste of a
choice piece, but he shook his head wearily, as he had every time for some two weeks or more
when proffered food. He could eat nothing, and lay there propped up on rough pillows, seeming
scarcely conscious of their presence; his dreamy eyes, with lids half drooping, looking fixedly
into the blazing fire. Even the coffee, civilized as it was by the addition of some patent
condensed milk, and upon the manufacture of which Thompson had prided himself not a little,
stood untouched by his bedside. Old Platte lit his pipe and dragged his three-legged stool
into a corner of the wide chimney, and Thompson, after moving the things away to a corner,
sat down opposite, mending his snow-shoes with a bundle of buckskin thongs. They did not talk
much in that family of evenings: men of this class are not conversational in their habits,
and a stranger who should look in would be apt to think them an unsocial set. Old Platte puffed
steadily at his pipe, blinking and winking at the fire, which he poked occasionally with a
stick or fed with a log of wood from the pile by his side. Thompson worked quietly with knife
and awl at his dilapidated shoes, and the pale, patient face beyond still gazed dreamily into
the fire. There were old scenes, doubtless, in among those burning logs--old familiar faces,
dear memories of the past and weird fantastic visions pictured in the glowing coals. At last
the eyes left the fire for a moment, resting on the two that sat by it, and he said, "Boys,
it's Christmas Eve."

Thompson started, for he had not heard him speak with so much energy for weeks.

"Christmas Eve!" he repeated absently. "Christmas Eve, and to-morrow will be Christmas Day.
Last Christmas was not like this: all was bright and fair, and she--"

The rest of the sentence was lost as he muttered it uneasily to himself and resumed his watching
of the fire. Christmas Eve! So it was, but they had not thought of it. Christmas Eve! The name
seemed out of place among those rocky fastnesses. What could the pines and the solitude, the
snow and the ice, have in common with Christmas? Christmas Eve down in that desolate valley,
in the quiet depths of the forest, away, miles away, from human habitation of any kind? Christmas
Eve! It seemed absurd, but Christmas Eve it was nevertheless, there as everywhere else.

Old Platte took his blackened old pipe from between his lips and mechanically repeated the
words. "Christmas Eve!" he half growled, as if some perplexing ideas had been called into existence
by the suggestion, and his pipe went out as he listlessly shoved some stray coals back into
the fire with his foot. But his meditations, to judge from his countenance, were neither interesting
nor profitable. Probably his Christmases had never been passed in a way that was calculated
to make them pleasingly conspicuous in the background of his life. Most of his early recollections
were associated with a villainous roadside groggery in Pike county, Missouri, of which his
father was the proprietor. Any questions relating to this parent and home he had been known
to invariably evade, and whenever conversation tended in that direction he strenuously discouraged
it. Why he did so never very clearly appeared. Some people who pretended to know used to say
that the old gentleman had been doing a lively trade in horseflesh without going through the
customary formalities of finance, and that some people with whom his dealings had been unsatisfactory,
in consequence of this unbusinesslike habit of his, had called at his house one evening and
invited him to walk out with them. The invitation was one he would have liked to decline, but
extra inducements in the shape of the cold muzzle of a revolver pressed against his forehead
and a low but determined "Dry up and come along!" caused him to put on his hat and step out.
He was found next morning hanging from a branch of a neighboring tree with a brief but expressive
obituary written in pencil on a scrap of paper and pinned on his coat: "Horse-thief! Jerry
Moon and Scotty, take notice." Inasmuch as one of the latter individuals was the chief authority
for the story, and had expedited his departure from Pike county in consequence of the intimation
contained in the lines on the same bit of paper, it may be safely inferred that there was some
foundation for the numerous stories of a similar nature that were in circulation. So Christmas
spent as his had been had no particular interest for Old Platte, and was pretty much the same
as any other kind of day upon which there would be an equally good excuse for stopping work
and getting venomously drunk. At any rate, the memories that clung around that Pike county
whisky-shop were none of the pleasantest or most gratifying; and with a grunt of general dissatisfaction
he rekindled his pipe, put a couple of sticks on the fire and allowed his mind to slide off
into a more congenial train of reflection.

To Thompson, Gentleman Dick's words had come as a sort of revelation. He knew well enough that
Christmas came in December, and also upon what day of that month it fell, but of late the days
had gone by so monotonously, and  had so little to distinguish them one from another, that
he had kept no account of them, and had no idea that it was so near. Some indefinable influence
that he could not account for had of late sent his mind groping into old and better channels,
and consequently when he was reminded of the presence of Christmas he felt disposed to accord
it a measure of consideration rather different from that with which several of its predecessors
had met. Like Old Platte, he had regarded it as a good day to go on a "bust" and initiate a
"drunk" of more or less duration, but just now he seemed as if inclined to take a different
view of it. His eyes could take a clearer and healthier view of the past than he had for a
long time had, and its old memories and scenes flocked up before him now, bright through the
dim mist that time had cast over them, and fresher and sweeter than ever by contrast with the
gloomy present. The snow-shoes slid from his lap and one by one the thongs of buckskins dropped
upon the floor, as he leaned back in the corner of the broad chimney, his face resting upon
his sinewy hand and his eyes looking through the fire into the world of the past.

Old Platte lay curled up in his bearskins and blankets fast asleep, but the other still sat
by the fire in the same position--still dreamily thinking. How long he had sat there he did
not know. The fire had sunk into a glowing heap of coals, fast changing into soft white ashes,
on which now and then a melting snow-flake that had stolen down through the chimney would fall
and disappear with a short angry sizz, and the shadows in the cabin were deep and dark. Suddenly
it seemed to him in his dreaming that a voice called him by name, and he awoke from his reverie
with a chill and a shudder and a sense of indefinable dread creeping over him--a dread of what,
he could not tell. A handful of chips blazed up brightly and lit up the cabin with their flickering
light as he turned nervously toward the patient, quiet face behind him. The eyes, shaded by
the long black eyelashes, were still on the fire, and while he was confident that he had not
been called, he was dimly conscious of a great change that had taken place. As he still looked
anxiously at the faded features, the eyes left their long watching of the embers and were raised
to meet his. He felt he was wanted, and was by his side in a moment: "How d'yer feel, old man?"

Gentleman Dick smiled as he laid his wasted fingers across the sturdy brown hand that leaned
on the edge of his bunk, and turning with difficulty on his pillow, he said in a voice scarce
above a whisper, "Thompson, old fellow, you and Platte have been kind, very kind, to me. I
won't trouble you much more now. I'm going to say--good-bye to you; and--Thompson--I want you
to do one little thing for me--when spring comes." He reached into a chink among the logs by
his side and drew forth an envelope containing a few letters, a photograph of a woman's face,
fair and tender, and a gold ring.

Thompson took it with a hand that shook as his rarely did.

"Send it soon--it's addressed and all--send it to her. Maybe she will be glad to know I am--gone--at
last--out of her path--out of the way--and the world. She sent it back to me--would not have
it--or me. Now--" Then his mind seemed to wander, and he rambled incoherently, repeating over
and over again a name that sounded like that on the envelope. "You will do it, won't you, Thompson?"
said he, rallying suddenly.

Thompson's voice was husky and thick as he answered impressively, "Damn me ef I don't!" adding
mentally, as he glanced at the package, "Damn her skin, whoever she is! She's at the bottom
of all this here business, you bet."

Gentleman Dick's lips moved as if he were speaking, and as Thompson leaned over him he could
hear, in a broken whisper, "Gold--in old boot--under bed--Old Platte half."

He heard no more. The pressure of the wasted fingers relaxed, the weary head sunk slowly back
on the pillow, and the tired eyelids drooped over the glazing eyes.

"Dick!" said Thompson--"Dick, old man!"

Too late. Away through the softly-falling snow, from the Blue with its stillness and solitude,
from its heartaches and sorrows and troubles, the weary spirit had fled, and Gentleman Dick
was at rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spring had come again; the snow had melted from the valleys; the grass and the ferns and the
green grass and bright lichens once more peeped out among the gray boulders and about the feet
of the stately pines; and the Blue, freed from its wintry prison, sang merrily over the gravelly
reaches. And as the miners flocked down that spring from over the range, they saw near by the
Chihuahua Claim and the deserted cabin, in a square formed by four gigantic pines, a neatly-built
cairn of boulders. One big gray boulder rested securely on top of all, and on it was hacked,
in rough and simple letters, GENTLEMAN DICK.

     W. MACKAY LAFFAN.

A SINGULAR FAMILY.

Almost as far back as I can remember three brothers, Italians named Noele, were intimates and
occasionally inmates of our home. The youngest brother, Eugenio, had been imprisoned during
the political disturbances of his country, but had escaped and made his way to England. Here,
at a lecture given by Mazzini in London under the auspices of the liberal Italians and those
who espoused their cause, Eugenio, who to handsome features and aristocratic appearance added
a modulated voice and persuasive manner, rose during the course of the evening, and in words
that held the audience spellbound narrated his own sufferings and those of some of his friends
under the yoke of Austria. As he concluded with the utterance of the sentiment, "Libertà! Equalità!
Fraternità!" a storm of applause burst from the assembly, and many were the high personages
who at the close of the meeting requested an introduction to the fascinating young orator.
My father was present on this occasion, and here his acquaintance with Eugenio Noele commenced.
The young man having discovered to him that his pecuniary resources were at the lowest ebb,
my father took him home with him, and my mother afterward united with him in requesting Eugenio
to consider their house as his own. My father also introduced him to his mercantile connections
and initiated him into mercantile affairs, when by his astuteness and perseverance he was enabled
to lay the foundations of an excellent position. Indeed, but few years had elapsed (during
which time he had frequently resided with us) ere he had acquired considerable wealth and we
a clearer insight into his true disposition.

His principles were such as the promptings of self-love, a violent temper, pride and ambition
could without difficulty overcome. As he rose higher in the social scale the reflection that
he had owed the impetus to others was a constant source of annoyance to him. Our house was
now but rarely visited by him, unless when some legal difficulties had arisen on which he wished
to consult my father or some important papers required translating. Then the air of pride would
yield to one of deferential affection, and in silvery tones he would discourse on such topics
as he imagined were the most pleasing to us. My father would be termed "Signor Padre" and my
mother "Signora Madre."

At about this time he sent to Italy for his brother Rugiero to assist him in his affairs. Rugiero
became as intimate at our house as Eugenio had been. There were singularly contradictory elements
in this brother's character. At one time the history of a destitute family would move him to
tears, and his purse would be freely emptied for their benefit: at another time he would spend
half an hour in searching for a lost farthing, and if not successful his countenance would
betray lines of anxiety for hours afterward. If he made me the gift of a paper horn or box
of sweets, his heart for the rest of the day would seem to be expanded with the most joyous
emotions, and for weeks after I was liable to be asked whether I remembered the day when I
was so pleased with his little gift; and then he would request permission to examine the pictures
painted thereon, and call my attention to their merits. He was ordinarily slow to understand
the point of a witticism, but when he had by deep pondering discovered it, nothing could exceed
his enjoyment: bending his head and clasping the bridge of his handsomely shaped nose, he would
laugh till the tears were ready to start. On the other hand, he was extremely sensitive, jealous
and suspicious. No one knew how soon the pleasant smile and kindly word would give place to
angry passions as ungovernable as they were disagreeable to witness. A smile passing from one
person to another without his being acquainted with the cause, was sufficient provocation for
him to rise, make his respects in a frigidly polite tone and take his leave, to return a few
moments after with heightened complexion and excited voice, and declare that he could not suffer
an affront with equanimity--that he would rid those present of his "abhorred" society, and
would never enter those doors again whilst he drew the breath of life. We paid little attention
to these egregious eccentricities, merely remarking with a smile of amusement, "Poor Rugiero!
how ridiculous! He must be out of his senses;" and about a fortnight later he would make his
appearance, penitent, apologetic and studious to remove the ill impression that his strange
conduct must have caused.

A third brother, Giuseppe, was added to the group, of whom vacillation was the distinguishing
characteristic. Giuseppe, in the innumerable discussions that arose between Rugiero and Eugenio,
would acquiesce with first one and then the other in whatever exaggerated sentiments their
enraged frame of mind might prompt them to utter, with the view of keeping on good terms with
both; but the only result was that when the flag of truce had been raised, grievances passed
over and differences adjusted, he would have the mortification of finding the whole of the
blame laid on his shoulders, and himself stigmatized as "a feather-head," "a meddler" and "a spy."

As the years rolled on I grew into womanhood, and became the unwitting source of constant ill-feeling
between the brothers. Eugenio was handsome, but I distrusted him; Rugiero was nearly as handsome,
but I regarded him as I would have regarded an uncle; Giuseppe was also handsome, but unstable
and entirely wanting in force. Time passed, and the brothers had separated. Eugenio had married
a woman in every way his inferior. Rugiero had been drawn into a like union that surprised
all those who knew his refined tastes and sensitiveness to the social amenities. Though a man
of honor, his circumstances had become embarrassed. In his emergencies he had recourse to his
old friends, whose aid was not withheld, but, a crisis arriving, he was declared bankrupt.
Eugenio, instead of assisting his brother, upbraided with being a disgrace to his own respectability,
publicly disowned him, and, with the view of forcing him to abandon the country, spread injurious
reports concerning him amongst many of the merchants who would otherwise have been willing
to extend a helping hand.

Soon after this Eugenio made a journey to Italy on business. Here he visited his native place
with an equipage designed to astonish the simple peasants and suggest to them the immensity
of his wealth. Never had the village on the outskirts of which dwelt his widowed sister seen
such magnificence or experienced such munificence. His name was on all tongues; ovations were
made to him; he was almost a king in their eyes. His sister, Lucretia Mortera, had borne to
her husband a large family, of whom but three survived--a youth named after his uncle Eugenio,
and then being educated for the priesthood; Celestino, a boy of eleven years; and Virginia,
a girl of eight. The little home in which they resided in quiet retirement had been given to
the widow for as long as she chose to occupy it by a friend of her late husband, as a token
of respect to his memory. Eugenio Noele, ashamed to see a sister of his living in a way so
unsuited to her birth and former expectations, requested her to dispose of whatever property
she might be possessed of, and prepare to accompany him with her family to London, where he
would provide for them, and his nephew Eugenio, leaving his studies, could take a place in
his counting-house. This request--or rather command--was embraced with gratitude, though it
cost a pang to think of leaving the home that had sheltered them under many vicissitudes. Besides
which, it was a matter of doubt to Signora Mortera and her eldest son whether any worldly promotion
could justify his deserting the priestly vocation to which he had felt himself called.

One evening my mother and I were surprised by a call from Rugiero. His face was pale and his
eyes were wild. He sank into an easy-chair, and after a long silence broke into the most terrible
invectives against his brother Eugenio, who had dragged the widow and orphans from a peaceful
home to cast them adrift.

"What widow? what orphans?"

"Simply, Madama Melville, my poor sister Lucretia, whom he induced to accompany him to London,
with her family, on the pretence of providing for them all, is now with those children at my
house, without means, without even a change of clothing. Yes, my sister Lucretia, who was a
mother to him when his own mother died; and yet he prospers!"

"But, Rugiero, what was the cause of his treating them thus?"

"When they had arrived at my brother's house the wife, who had not expected them, took an aversion
to them, and no sooner did she learn that they were strict Roman Catholics than she believed
them to be capable of every crime. Celestino, who is in a decline, was treated with the greatest
neglect. Every occasion of showing disrespect toward her sister-in-law before her children
or the servants was eagerly sought by my brother's wife, whilst in the presence of her husband
she was all amiability. The sickness of one of her own children was made the occasion of accusing
Lucretia of an attempt to poison it, and the wily woman so worked on my brother's parental
feelings that he had not returned home an hour ere he commanded his 'infamous sister'--'quel
assassinatrice!'--to leave his house with her children on the instant! The door was closed
upon them, and the outer apparel that had served them for their journey was thrown to them
from the window by the servants. Amazed and full of grief, they directed their steps toward
the house of the good priest whose chapel they had once or twice attended. Here they procured
my address, and soon after came to my house, where they now are in the extremest affliction.
You, madama, may well imagine that I can scarcely maintain my own family at this juncture,
and that I am therefore unable to do for my sister and her children what my heart dictates.
After a sleepless night I came to the conclusion that you, Madama Melville, whose goodness
of heart has so often been put sorely to the test, would be able to suggest some plan by which
to mitigate the sufferings of my unfortunate sister or bring Eugenio to reason."

"My dear Rugiero, I feel certain that my husband would think as I do--that for the present
they had better stay here with us. We can turn one floor into sleeping apartments for them,
and have one sitting-room in which your sister can receive callers or remain when she wishes
to be alone. You know that I have so often heard you speak of your sister Lucretia that I can
take the privilege of giving her an invitation to come and make us a long visit; and so you
must tell her."

"God bless you, dear madama, as you deserve to be blessed! This is indeed a weight off my heart
and mind."

The result of this conversation was that on the next morning Rugiero returned, bringing with
him his sister and her children. Signora Lucretia responded to the welcome of my parents with
expressions of fervent gratitude, calling them the saviors of her family. She was a short,
slender woman, in whose dark eyes, long, finely-cut features, and pale, thin face one could
discern the spirit of asceticism and the traces of past afflictions. Of the children she had
buried, all had reached their tenth year in apparent health and remarkable for their physical
and moral beauty, but from that age they had rapidly trodden the pathway to the tomb. None
of her children had resembled their father but Eugenio, who was a well-made youth of wiry constitution,
and gave every promise of attaining the ordinary age allotted to man. Celestino was destined
soon to rejoin the children gone before. How can I describe the thrill I felt when I saw that
child's face as he entered the room? Never had I seen in picture or in dream a countenance
so lovely. But what can I say of those soul-speaking eyes, the large, dark-brown iris surrounded
by the brilliant azure-white and shaded by long dark lashes? Finely chiseled features were
added to a rounded face of a clear pale olive, except where a flush like the pink lining of
a shell played upon it. Virginia greatly resembled her brother Celestino, but was in full health,
and in spirits that would have been lively but for the constant and harassing admonitions of
her mother, who in every free and graceful movement saw a tendency to levity that must be repressed.
The poor child was doomed to a perpetual entanglement of the lower limbs, owing to her garments
being made as long as those of a grown person. If, forgetting decorum, she chanced to skip
or jump, Signora Lucretia would exclaim, "Va scompostaccia! sta più composta" ("Go to, most
discomposed one! be more composed"), and seating her by her side would supply her with needlework
or knitting until my mother would intercede, assuring Signora Lucretia that the child could
never attain healthy womanhood unless allowed the full play of her muscles and the expansion
of her lungs by singing and laughter.

"Ah, madama, you know not how I fear lest the natural gayety of her disposition should cause
the loss of her soul."

"Oh, my dear lady, such ideas are born of the troubles through which you have passed, and not
of your native good sense. God has implanted this gayety in your child's heart to enable her
to enter with zest into those amusements so necessary to her development."

One day my mother (by permission) had a tuck taken up in Virginia's dress, and, directing me
to take her for a walk, she privately commissioned me to purchase for her such attire as was
suitable to a child of her years. I began with her head, and secured the jauntiest little hat
with feathers that I could find, not without a misgiving that it would ultimately be consigned
to the flames. Amongst other articles that I procured was a wax doll, at the sight of which
Virginia screamed with delight. It was her first doll. Even Signora Lucretia's face was lit
by a smile of undisguised admiration at the improvement in the child's toilette, but it soon
gave place to a sigh at her own "vanity of spirit," and she held the little hat as Eve might
have held the apple offered to her by the serpent.

Signora Lucretia and her children spent some hours every morning before breakfast in reciting
litanies and other prayers, and on retiring to rest the same forms were repeated. During the
day, whenever the clock struck the hour, the whole family, leaving whatever might be the occupation
of the moment, knelt on their chairs and made a short prayer or meditation on the flight of time.

At the time of their arrival my cousin Oswald was staying with us, and on the first evening
he retired early to give them an opportunity of conversing more freely on the melancholy topics
that filled their minds. After bidding good-night to my mother and kissing her, he paid me
the same tokens of regard. This incident had not escaped the notice of the young Eugenio, for
when directed by his mother to retire to rest also, he advanced toward me, shook hands, and
(although, seeing his intention, I drew back) succeeded in imprinting a kiss on my cheek. Signora
Lucretia turned as pale as death. My mother, to avoid a scene, turned with a playful laugh
to Eugenio, who by this time was scarlet with shame, and said, "My dear boy, in this country
such salutations are only permitted from near relations or very intimate friends, but I am
not surprised that Mr. Oswald's thoughtlessness before you should have misled you into doing
the same. So I am sure that your good mother will not be displeased with you."

"Oh, madama," exclaimed Signora Lucretia, bursting into tears as soon as the door had closed
upon him, "to think that my son should have been tempted by the Evil One so far as to forget
what is due to the holy vocation for which he is to fit himself! In Italy never had he even
been in the same room with any woman but myself and the priest's old housekeeper. This is the
first time that his lips have been so desecrated." (Here my mother and I interchanged smiles.)
"Unhappy mother that I am! by what sufferings can I atone for his sin? What shall I impose
upon him to mortify the spirit that has arisen within him?"

The next morning Eugenio came down looking pale and sad, and I felt sure that he had been reprimanded
in no measured terms. I gave him a pitying glance, which fell like dew on the thirsting earth.

At every breakfast the children were taught to say good-morning to each person separately.
The elder son would commence, "Good-morning and good appetite, Mr. Melville! good-morning and
good appetite, Madama Melville! good-morning and good appetite, Signora Felicia!" and so on.
Then Celestino would go through the same ceremony, and finally Virginia, and a grace was uttered,
during which the breakfast was liable to become cool, and Rugiero's temper (if he were present)
not so. "Andiamo! I am sure that Signor Melville and madama do not insist upon so many compliments;
and you, Eugenio, should have more gallantry than to keep the Signora Felicia waiting whilst
her toast becomes cold." That he should connect the word gallantry with Eugenio was an imprudence,
to say the least. But the offence was more serious when once at dinner he favored us with some
reminiscences of his own gallantries: "I remember that when I was in the army the wife of our
colonel had a sister, a splendid-looking creature, with eyes like stars, who (to tell the truth)
was head over ears in--But my sister Lucretia, who is frowning at me, is right. One would say
that she must have had an enlarged experience in such matters, seeing how sensitive she is
to the danger of discussing them." (Here Signora Lucretia, with blushing cheeks, glanced from
Rugiero to her son, who with downcast eyes appeared to be absorbed with the roast chicken on
his plate.) "Without entering into details that would appear ill-timed to my dear sister" (here
his eyes twinkled with roguishness and his lips parted in laughter), "suffice it merely to
say that I acted as any other man under the circumstances would have acted, and kissed her
not once or twice, but--"

"Go to thy room, Eugenio, most audacious!" panted Signora Lucretia, for he had raised his head,
and, meeting his uncle's laughing gaze, had faintly smiled--"Go to thy room" (and here she
struck him on the face), "and recite the Litany of the Blessed Virgin three times, and pray
for thy uncle, that he may be converted."

Eugenio with flaming cheeks and ears rose submissively from the table, and without a word or
look ascended to his room to do her bidding.

"What!" exclaimed Rugiero, rising from his seat, "would you dare to insult me by desiring my
own nephew to pray for me? It seems to me that I dream! Per Bacco!"

Here my father observed that he must own he saw nothing very outrageous in what Rugiero had
narrated, yet, as Signora Mortera had her own peculiar views on the matter, he considered that
her brother was bound to respect them. Rugiero then admitted that he had been too hasty, and
a reconciliation was effected, but he never met his nephew's eye thereafter without the same
roguish smile, at which the poor youth would blush painfully and lower his gaze.

During this scene at the dinner-table Celestino breathed quickly, but never moved his eyes
from the table-cloth, while Virginia looked at each one of the speakers in open-mouthed astonishment
and curiosity.

One day I accompanied Signora Lucretia and her children to a Roman Catholic chapel in the neighborhood.
I could not be unconscious of the odd and incongruous appearance of the two sons--Eugenio in
a suit like that of a stage grandfather, snuff-colored, and with collar that raised the lobes
of his ears; and dear little Celestino with a similarly cut coat in bottle green, with large
gilt buttons, making him look like a man in miniature. Such had been the style pronounced by
the village tailor to be in the height of Parisian fashion, but being a novelty to the London
"gamins," it attracted more notice from them than we could have wished. After Signora Mortera
and her children had attended the confessional she seemed to be much easier in her mind, and
was so amiable as to tell my mother on our return home that it was edifying to behold the signorina
walking like a Roman matron, in contrast to those who were giggling and turning their heads
first one way and then the other, like so many pulcinelle. Notwithstanding this compliment,
however, I perceived that she was uneasy concerning Eugenio and myself. It was evidently a
satisfaction to her that I should load Celestino with caresses and endearing epithets, but
that Eugenio should sit near me, speak to me, or even be in the same room with me (whether
alone or in company), was the signal for demonstrations of the extremest vigilance. On one
evening my cousin had brought home some gifts, consisting of a silver pencil-case with gold
pen for Eugenio, a traveling writing-case with his name on it for Celestino, and a small traveling
work-bag similarly marked for Virginia. These were highly appreciated. Celestino seemed unwilling
to have his desk out of his sight for a single moment, and when his bed-time came wanted to
take it up with him. His mother, unwilling to leave Eugenio in my society without her watchful
presence, directed him to carry his brother up.

"Signora madre," said Celestino, "I am not tired to-night."

"Well, then, Eugenio can carry up thy writing-case for thee."

"Signora madre, it is not heavy, and I would like to carry it myself."

So Signora Lucretia went up with him herself, and, leaving my mother to entertain Eugenio,
I went immediately into another room. I felt too deeply for the misfortunes of the unsophisticated
Eugenio ever to have willingly trifled with the nascent susceptibilities of his heart.

One little incident, however, occurred to interrupt the orthodox reserve of our demeanor. An
old friend of ours, Captain Stuart, had sent Virginia a bank-note with which to procure some
keepsake. One evening the old gentleman called, and was shown into the drawing-room, where
my mother received him. The rest of us were in the dining-room below. On my mentioning Captain
Stuart's name to Signora Lucretia, she exclaimed, "Let us go, my children, and thank this good
man for his kind present to our Virginia."

It was dark, but the hall-lamp had not been lit, so I took a wax taper from the writing-table
and, lighting it, proceeded to escort them up the staircase. Some spirit of mischief prompted
me by a sudden movement to let the light be blown out. In an instant the hand of Eugenio met
mine, and thus hand in hand, swinging to and fro, we came to the drawing-room door, and a flood
of light bursting upon us discovered to Signora Lucretia my face flushed with suppressed laughter,
and Eugenio's eyes no longer timid, but sparkling with joy. From this time he would spend whole
nights in writing verses, which he would show to his mother. She, noting the classical allusions,
and having a great respect for literary talents, did not repress his efforts, but on the contrary
appeared desirous that he should show his verses to my mother and to me. Mingled with expressions
of grief and despair at the inconstancy of fortune and the decrees of fate were allegorical
fancies in which I could perceive that I held a place, but I never allowed him to think that
I noticed this; and indeed after the escapade of the staircase I became more distant than before.

However, one day when Celestino was feeling more weak and tired than usual, and I was propping
him up on the sofa, I observed with some trepidation that Eugenio, who had been reading at
the window, changed his seat to one near the head of the sofa. His mother and mine were busy
sewing at a window in the next room, from whence they could see us through the folding doors.
His eyes were full of tears, and, suddenly bending over his brother and rearranging a cushion,
he seized my hand and covered it with silent kisses. In a moment I had disengaged my hand,
full of fear for the result to Eugenio should Signora Lucretia's attention be directed toward
us. The same evening, on returning from a visit, I learned that my mother and Signora Mortera
had gone out under the escort of Oswald to attend vespers at a church some distance off. We
young people passed the evening alone together. The crimson curtains were closely drawn, and
the cosy room was lighted by a blazing fire. Reclining in an easy-chair, I held Celestino's
fragile form in my arms, the wonderful eyes gazing into mine as I watched with emotions too
deep for words their ever-varying expression. Eugenio sat on an ottoman at my feet, alternately
reading aloud from Dante and pausing to observe me, while Virginia was on the hearth-rug, happy
in adorning her doll with pieces of silk, beads and flowers.

Suddenly Eugenio said, "Does the signora remember in the narrative of Dives and Lazarus how
Lazarus was thankful for the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table?"

I understood him, and hiding my face in Celestino's tendril-like curls, I replied, "Yes, but
I wonder whether he would have been hungry enough to eat crumbs that he knew to be poisoned?"

He made no reply.

"Eugenio," I continued, "what are your plans for the future? Is it your own desire to become
a priest?"

This last word made him tremble. "I once desired it," he answered, "thinking it the most honorable
position to which I could aspire, and also my natural vocation. But now--God knows whether
it be a sin or not--I would pass through any affliction He might send rather than become one.
But my mother's heart is fixed upon it more than ever, and soon my family will be wholly dependent
upon me. Ah! young as I am, I have suffered and still suffer. Far happier is that child in
your arms, dying slowly though it may be, than the unfortunate Eugenio."

"Have a care," I said, "lest, entering the state of priesthood, you bear with you a heart fixed
on the things of this world. Do not yield to the impulses of a strong imagination, but endeavor
to forget whatever might prove a hindrance to you hereafter."

"Ah, Felicia, my heart is too full ever to forget. Celestino, my brother, thou art indeed happy.
Dost thou know it?"

"Yes, Eugenio, I feel even too happy."

"God bless thee, Celestino! I love thee more than ever;" and, stealing his brother's hand from
mine, he gently kissed it, whilst Celestino smiled on us with a heavenly smile.

It was arranged that I should accompany my father to the counting-house of Eugenio Noele and
strive to obtain some redress for the widow and orphans, for I had always been a favorite with
him, and my mother imagined that my influence would have more power than her own. But the only
result of this interview was that Eugenio promised, for my sake, to furnish his sister and
her family with sufficient funds to enable them to return to their own country: he also told
my father that he should send one of his clerks to accompany them and see that they did go there.

On our way home we called on Dr. Newcastle, our old friend and physician, and after describing
the circumstances of the Mortera family, asked him to call and see Celestino in the evening.
The doctor was a fine-looking man, with a profusion of silvery white hair and beard, a deep
thinker, blunt and sincere of speech, and full of dry wit that made every one laugh but himself.
His footman (a colored man) was once overheard to say, "Berry strange man, my massa! berry
sing'lar man! I say to him, 'I can't walk fast in dese yere boots, sar--dey's too short.' 'Oh,'
he says, ''tis but the cutting off a piece of your toes, Caesar, and de boots will fit well
enuff.' Him berry sing'lar man. One day I hear, through de open window of a lady's house, him
say to her, 'For what did you send after me, madam?' and she say, 'I feel a leetle 'stericky
again dis morning, doctor: what can you pescribe for me?' 'Pescribe!' says my massa with a
sort of short laugh: 'why, dat you go to de top of de house wid a brush and dustpan and sweep
de stairs all de way down, and make all de beds, and leave off drinking strong coffee;' and
a berry fashionable lady too, as dey tell me after. When de doctor get into him carriage he
talk to himself, and give him short laugh."

After an introduction to Signora Mortera, the doctor turned his attention to Celestino, who
lay on the sofa pale and agitated: "Bless my heart! what a handsome lad! what splendid eyes!
Ah! hm! hm! poor fellow! hm!" and he cleared his throat. "Let me feel your pulse."

As Celestino turned and gazed on him with mute surprise the doctor proceeded with his examination
in complete silence, and then began discoursing about the weather and politics.

"But, doctor," said my mother, "you have told us nothing about the boy? What is your opinion?
what shall we do for him? what do you prescribe?"

"Whirr! whirr! how many questions! I prescribe for him a course of early rising, accompanied
by long prayer and fasting. If he shows an inclination for exercise, give him a rosary. Take
away juvenile books, and give him the Lives of the Saints and Martyrs. Let him remember the
days of fasting and abstinence. Why, bless me! the boy is nothing but heart and brain. He must
be kept cheerful and well-nourished. Let him be in the open air when it is pleasant. I will
prescribe a little something for him, but his case is beyond all medicine."

"Oh, doctor, do you really mean to say that he will die?"

"Die?" and the doctor laughed his little cynical laugh. "Why, we shall all die some day, shall
we not?"

"Now, doctor, do be serious. Is there no hope for him?"

"I don't see that there is;" and he continued to gaze at the boy's face as if it had some fascination
for him.

Eugenio Noele failed not a week later to send his clerk to make arrangements for the departure
of the Morteras. As the time drew nearer Celestino failed rapidly. He would lie for hours without
speaking except with his eloquent eyes. Frequently he would kiss a little ring that I had given
him, and a few days before his departure I gave him a trinket consisting of a turquoise heart,
with a cross set with crystals over red stones, emblematical of the blood and water that flowed
from the side of our Redeemer. This he received with great emotion, and as I tied it to his
neck with a ribbon he said, "I will wear it as long as I have life."

"Does Celestino fear to die?"

"No, signora, not whilst you are near me; and by dying I shall see my brothers and sisters
in heaven, and can come and watch over you all."

"Sweetest child! It will break my heart to lose thee."

"Ah, do not weep;" and the boy's lips paled and his eyelids closed. I gave him water, and called
to his mother to come and speak to him.

"Ah, this child of my bosom! my poor Celestino! must he leave me too?"

"Dear signora, he goes to a world free from such sorrows or cares as yours have been. He is
like an angel even now."

"Celestino, kiss thy poor afflicted mother." Without a word, but with trembling lips, he stretched
forth his arms to embrace her, and I stole away, leaving to her sacred sorrow the poor woman
who for the moment, forgetting her self-imposed ascetic restraint, was yielding to every impulse
of demonstrative tenderness.

The night before their departure Eugenio wrote an ode addressed to me, and placed it in my
hands. I did not then read it through: I felt too dispirited and preoccupied. The next morning
his eyes met mine with a questioning expression that I did not comprehend. When the hour for
parting had arrived tears and broken exclamations were mingled. Eugenio lingered to kiss me,
with a look first of inquiry, then of deep despair. I found afterward that the poem he had
presented to me contained a protestation of humble and devoted love, which he entreated me
not to neglect with scorn, and thereby add to the cruelties of his situation.

What a sense of loneliness we experienced! I felt restless and unhappy: I was pursued by the
imploring face of Eugenio and haunted by the eyes of Celestino. It was long ere our household
recovered its old equilibrium. Letters full of gratitude came from the Morteras. They were
re-established in their old home; Eugenio had resumed his studies; Virginia was not so well;
Celestino was dying. Soon after I received a letter in Eugenio's handwriting informing me that
the trinket he enclosed would be to me an evidence that his beloved brother Celestino was dead.
He had died with a smile on his lips, and Eugenio with his own hands had unfastened the jewel
from his neck. In a letter written some time after to my mother Eugenio implored her by all
she loved to rescue him from a position which he felt to be daily more unendurable, by procuring
for him some engagement, in however humble a capacity, that would enable him to support himself
and assist his family. A priest he could not, would not be. My parents had scarcely time to
discuss the matter ere another letter came from Eugenio, telling them that his mother had discovered
the subject of his correspondence, and that she and their good old priest had succeeded in
convincing him of his wickedness in attempting to relinquish the holy vocation of priest--that
it had been a snare of the devil; and he implored Signor and Madama Melville to forgive him
for the scandal he had caused concerning his holy religion by such unworthy backslidings, which
he now deeply repented.

One day Oswald came in exclaiming, "Aunt, who do you think has failed and left the country?"

"Who?"

"Why, your friend, Eugenio Noele! As I passed the house I saw men carrying away the pictures
and things. I could not help stopping to inquire into the matter. One of the workmen, who seemed
to know a great deal about it, said that a confidential clerk was at the bottom of it all,
and had run off before the great smash came."

The last news we heard of this singular family was that Rugiero, who had gone to Italy with
his family, was retrieving his position, that Giuseppe was with him, and that Eugenio was a
priest, and beloved by all for his noble qualities and extended usefulness.

     CLELIA LEGA WEEKS.

THE MATCHLESS ONE: A TALE OF AMERICAN SOCIETY, IN FOUR CHAPTERS.

PROLOGUE.

Ah, the misfortune of being wealthy, the misery of being handsome, the disadvantage of a divine
moustache and a dimple in the chin, the affliction of having wavy hair and dark eyes, the forlorn
condition of a man who is very clever, who never makes a bad joke, who is such "good company,"
such a "jolly dog," such a "happy creature" and "fortunate fellow"! Oh the calamity of possessing
a romantic country-seat and fine horses!--the ill-starred luck of a person who is always finding
a moon that shines beautifully, a sun that is never too hot, long walks that cannot be too
long, and drives that are "so delightful"!

I am the unhappy victim of a fate which in spiteful mood gifted me beyond my fellow-men. I
might have had my share of enjoyment in the world, as mediocre people have, but my perfections
are in my way at every turn, continually marring my prospects. A superficial observer might
think that these advantages would have the contrary effect--that I should be more fortunate
than others--but my story will prove my assertion. Take, for example, my difficulties as a
"marrying man." I will relate my experience during the past three years, and you can judge
for yourself.

CHAPTER I.

My good mother (may Heaven reward her!) often advised me to marry betimes. "Marry early in
life, my dear Charles," she would say, "but marry a woman worthy of you."

In her solicitude my mother foresaw the difficulty of the task she had set before me. She had
known and admired me from childhood, and of course appreciated my worth. I remember her sad
but affectionate gaze as she spoke, and I, unconscious of the future, smiled to reassure her.
With the simplicity inseparable from great natures, I did not value the treasures I possessed.
I was as the poet before he has touched his lyre--as the sculptor ere he has found his marble.
Since then the years have brought knowledge. My eyes have been opened by the actions of those
around me--by the admiration I excite whenever I appear; by the respect with which I am listened
to when I speak; by the warmth with which I am welcomed wherever I visit. I could produce many
examples to illustrate my gradual awakening, but they would be irrelevant to my subject.

I earnestly desired to fulfill my mother's wishes, and as soon as it seemed proper after her
decease I set out on my quest as on a pilgrimage. The task which requires from most men some
six weeks' or three months' time, perhaps a few moments snatched from business or a few evenings
of ball-room devotion, has cost me three years' labor, and it is not yet accomplished. But
I suppose it is easier for other men to find some one worthy of them.

I had read the poets: I had conceived an ideal of a faultless creature, and with the enthusiasm
of youth I sought for a woman to worship as a star--one whom I should adore--one far above
me, from whom it would be honor to win a smile, and--and all that sort of thing. Alas! I found
they smiled before I could make my first bow at an introduction. At first I blamed the poets--thought
they had been mistaken--had not studied human nature; but the truth gradually dawned upon me.
The fault was mine! The imagination of man had not been able to create a hero of fiction like
myself: in fact, had authorship attained such a triumph, the most fastidious maiden would have
been obliged to fall in love at first sight, thereby spoiling many a fine three-volumed romance
and heroic cantos innumerable. How ruinous would the possession of perfection such as mine
have been to the chivalry of the Middle Ages!

I do not think any less of the ladies for the ease of my conquests: I know how impossible it
is for the poor dears to resist my charms; but oh the happiness of mediocrity!

I was occupied for a whole season searching for the being whom I called my star. My fancy was
so pleased with the idea of basking in her radiance, I had so fully persuaded myself to be
guided by her light to all things great and high, I had learned to think of her with so much
devotion, that I could not give up my hope of finding her somewhere. I went to all the popular
summer-resorts in turn, meeting only disappointment. The star type of girls did not seem to
be the mode that season: I could see no trace of her I came to find. Though saddened, I was
too young to despair: in my usual clear and sensible manner I thought the matter over. After
all, I reflected, I suppose I can find a woman worthy of me who is not a star. I doubt not
the poets were sincere in their civility to persons of the other sex. The exaggeration arose
from the absence of any really superior man with whom to compare them. They seemed stars in
contrast with the existing male species: I had not yet appeared.

Another summer found me renewing my search with unabated vigor, but this time on a different
basis, having determined to lay romance aside--to seek for nothing above me--to be content
with an equal. If with her I should not be ecstatically happy--if our ménage would not quite
rival that of Adam and Eve in the garden of Paradise--yet a certain amount of modern bliss
might be extracted from the companionship of an agreeable woman who could appreciate and sympathize
with my tastes and be my friend through life.

I employed my second summer in looking for a sympathetic woman, with the intention of making
her my wife. May I never see such a hard-working, distracting season again! Not that such women
were hard to find--they were only too plenty: at one time I had six who were devoted to me.
One sympathized with my love of music; we sang duets together in the evening; it was delightful,
for I need hardly say that I sing as I do everything else--remarkably well. Another sympathized
with my sketching propensities. We rambled in the woods together with boxes and colors. I found
it charming. "Nothing amateurish" about my style, Miss Pinklake said. A third sympathized with
my taste for horses: my restive Nero was the "sweetest pet" she ever saw. (My groom says, "He's
the divvil hisself, Muster Charley.") With her I rode in the afternoon. She told me--Miss Vernon,
you know her? brunette, deuced pretty--she said one day, when we were taking a canter together,
"I can believe those wonderful stories of the Centaurs when I see you ride, Mr. Highrank."
She had a pleasant voice, and such a figure! I had almost decided to propose to her one day,
and was even thinking of the words I should use, when the pale Miss Anabel Lee came walking
along the road by us, looking like a fairy, her hat hanging on her arm filled with wild flowers,
and her dress looped with ferns. As she passed she raised her beautiful blue eyes to mine,
and at the same time--it might have been chance--she pressed a bunch of forget-me-nots to her
lips. I remembered I had an engagement to walk with Miss Lee on the beach that night: there
was a lovely moon--we talked poetry. It was Miss Annie Darling who said I "waltzed divinely."
Miss Annie laid her hand on one's sleeve when she talked to one, mutilated her fan with various
tappings on a fellow's shoulder for being naughty, as she called it ("naughty" meant giving
her a kiss in a dark corner of the verandah), said saucy things to the snobs, and used her
eyes. She walked with the Grecian bend. When I had a serious fit there was young Miss Carenaught,
who was plain and read the reviews, spoke sharply against fashion, and knew a man of my education
"must despise the butterfly existence of the surrounding throng." Sometimes she would invite
me to go with her to catch beetles and queer insects--"not that she needed my help," she would
say, "but my intellectual society was indeed a treat in this crowded desert."

All this was very agreeable, but also very perplexing. At the end of the season I found myself
as far from making a choice as ever. If I indulged one taste at the expense of the others,
I should become a less perfect man; nor could I decide in which of my pursuits I needed sympathy
the most--music, painting, dancing, riding, reading. Alas! could I find one woman congenial
in all my moods I would marry her immediately. Wearied by the attentions of so many, I yet
feared an imperfect life spent with but one. I saw that I had made another mistake, and retired
to my country-seat, "The Beauties," to recruit.

I know there is a modern idea that women are the equals of men (the poets, you remember, thought
them superior), and many may consider it odd that I did not find it so. I do not wish to offend.
To those who hold that opinion I modestly suggest my unfortunate superiority as the probable
cause of my failure. I do not blame the ladies, be it understood.

Again I sat down to plan and reflect. I looked mournfully on the past and less hopefully on
the future. The obstacles were beginning to dishearten me, but even after a second failure
I dared not relinquish my quest: my mother's wishes must be fulfilled. A woman worthy of me:
behold the difficulty! What course of action should I now pursue?

At last I had a flash of brain-light on the subject. I would look for the purely good, rejecting
the intellectual entirely. I would plunge into the country and seek a bride fresh from the
hands of Nature, a wild flower without fashion, guile or brains--one who in leaving me free
to follow my own pursuits would yet adorn my life with charms of the heart--a heart that had
known no love but mine.

It was in the most beautiful month of autumn that I made this resolve, which I lost no time
in putting into execution. I wrote to my old college friend, Dick Hearty, that I would spend
a month with him: he had often invited me to visit him in the country. I counted on doing enough
love-making in that time to win my wild rose, and at my return I would bring home my bride.
I reasoned that in those unsophisticated regions, in the shadow of the virgin forest, the trammels
of long courtship and other fashionable follies are unknown: heart meets heart as the pure
woodland streams meet each other and become one.

Before I set out I gave a dinner-party at The Beauties to announce to my gentleman friends
the joyful event. At the dessert I rose and proposed the health of my future bride.

"And may it be years before she arrives at The Beauties!" mumbled Percy Flyaway when they had
drunk the toast.

"I hope you will all welcome her at a grand reception here in--about a month or six weeks."
I remembered just in time that I had best not fix a date, as something might intervene.

A storm of questions, exclamations and remarks ensued.

"Lovely?"

"As fair as poet's dreaming."

"Die Vernon?"

"Not for Joe!"

"The Soprano?"

A shake of my head.

"Anabel?"

"No."

"Who is she?"

"Let us drink her health again," said one, getting thirsty, and fearing in the excitement the
bottle would not be passed.

"Tell us all about her," cried another.

"Gentlemen," said I seriously when the noise had slightly abated, "you know I am a deuced good
fellow."

"Hear! hear!" they cried.

"That you are!" said Percy.

"Well, I am going to get a deuced good wife."

"Congratulate you, old fellow!"

"Do you think of going up in a balloon for a wedding-trip?"

They all came around me, clinked their glasses with mine, shook hands with me, and drank my
health, her health, the health of my mother-in-law, and any other toast that would serve as
an excuse for emptying a glass.

"I say, will she cut rough on us chaps?" asked Percy in a plaintive voice as the hubbub subsided.

"Gentlemen," cried I, waving my hand, "my wife that is to be is an angel."

"Wish she would stay in heaven!" muttered Percy.

"What I mean by an angel is a perfect woman."

"Worse still," said the irrepressible Perce. (By the by, the wits had nicknamed him "Perce
sans purse," because he was poor, you know, but he was a good fellow, quite.)

"Gentlemen, let me explain."

"Hear! hear!"

"I have been looking for a wife for the past year: I have thought much on the subject, for
I think it an important one."

"Solomon!" said Perce out of his wine-glass.

"Now, a good wife must be a refined, gentle, kind, loving, beautiful woman, with no nonsense
about her."

"Amen to the last clause!" cried Bear de Witt.

"You have found her?" asked Percy, absently watching the sparkling bubbles rise one after the
other in his glass.

"Ah--aw--I will bring her home," I answered, evading the question--"my love, my bliss, my delight!"

"He is awful spoony on her," said Bear in a disgusted tone.

"He is tipsy," whispered Percy as I sat down with a tremor in my voice and wiped my eyes with
a napkin.

Then Perce began to lecture me in an injured tone: "I say, it is really too bad of you. I should
not have believed it if you had not told us yourself. To go and get married like any fool of
a fella' that hasn't forty thou' a year, like any common man--it's too rough."

"I know it, Perce," I replied, "but we superior people must set an example--the world expects
it of us. The only question is, how to make a proper choice."

I remember very little after, except that the lights shone dimmer through the cigar-smoke,
that there was much noise from popping corks, and occasionally a breakage of glass, and I think
I made another speech. Next morning I awoke with a very robust and well-defined head-ache.

A few days later I started for the back-woods, with Wordsworth packed in my trunk, he being
the writer most congenial to my present state of mind. Once seated in the cars, I looked with
pleasure on each pastoral scene as it came into view, and gazed at the milkmaids while thinking
romantically of my love. I took a nap, and awoke respectfully pressing the handle of my portmanteau
and murmuring a proposal to my wild flower.

It was late when I arrived at the little village near which my friend resided, and I resolved
to spend the night at the modest inn of the place. The gay singing of birds, mingled with the
ringing of Sunday bells, caused my drowsy eyes to open on the morrow. A happy thought came
to me as I lay enjoying the delightful freshness of all around me: "I will go to church: my
little Innocence will be there. I know she is pious. As unconscious as the birds, and with
as sweet a voice, she will, like them, be praising her Maker this bright morning."

I began to dress, looking each moment from the window with the hope that she might pass by.
The street was quiet--no one to be seen. Presently, from a house near, tripped two pretty girls,
and I eagerly came forward to see them. "If it is not my rose herself," I thought, "it maybe
some relation--cousin, sister, friend: I am interested in the whole town since she lives here."
The girls came nearer. They walked without affectation: you could imagine that the spirit of
Modesty herself had taught them that quiet demeanor. Suddenly they looked up and saw me. Am
I Mephistopheles, to produce such a dire effect? They looked down, they simpered, they laughed
a laugh that was not natural: their voices grew louder.

"Did you see him?" said one.

"So perfectly lovely!" said the other.

"I wonder who he is?" remarked the first.

"My fate," I muttered as I turned away.

After breakfast I sallied forth, humming "Pure as the Snow." Taking a reconnoissance of the
town, I came to a pretty house with woodbine-covered porch, and a slender figure at the window.

"I will not startle her with a rude glance," thought I, for I could see without appearing to
look. As my step resounded the figure turned.

"Oh, do come here, Jessie! Who can he be?" said the slender figure to some one inside.

I raised my eyes slowly, and my hat. "Could you tell me the way to Mr. Hearty's?" I asked,
not thinking of any other excuse for speaking to her.

Blushing, she told me.

"And might I ask you," looking beseechingly at her as a person who might be my future wife--"might
I ask you to give me one of your roses?"

"Take as many as you like," she said courteously.

"I would rather you gave me one," with a smile.

She hesitated for an instant, then quickly plucked a bud from the side of the open window,
threw it to me and ran away.

"I shall find my Rose later," sighed I.

I sauntered on to church, a pretty little building of mossy gray stone, and seated myself on
a shady bench under the elms to watch the people assembling.

Ye gods! could it be? Here were last summer's styles, airs and grimaces, served up as it were
cold. I could pick out bad copies of each girl I had flirted with the past season. You remember
Florence Rich at The Resort?--here was her portrait in caricature. Florence was the vainest
girl I ever knew, and showed it too. But she was vain of herself. This country Florence was
vain of a new silk that I would have taken the odds she was wearing for the first time. She
looked as if she were saying with every rustle, "Admire me!" though of course she wasn't, you
know. She was constantly arranging her bracelet or smoothing her glove, and looking on this
side and that to see if any one was observing her. By this means she gave her admirers the
benefit of her full face, showing both earrings; then of her profile, showing one earring and
her curls; and then of the back of her head, showing her fall bonnet. Her little black veil
ended just where her nose needed a shade. It is needless to mention that she looked at me as
she passed and gave me a smile à la profile, which was ostensibly aimed at a pale young man
near the church-door.

On they came, looking like the remnants of my summer's feast--the supper after my season's
dinner--stale and repelling to my satiated palate. On entering I saw the ghost of "the Soprano"
at the head of the choir, with less voice and more affectation. The same glances of envy that
had been shot from angry eyes at The Resort I now saw passing between angry eyes here. The
church was full of imitations of this kind, or were they only inferior originals of the same type?

I learned afterward that the girls of the town were divided into two classes--the followers
of Miss Loude, who was fast and flashy, and the imitators of Miss Weighty, who affected the
quiet style, did not visit indiscriminately, and was considered "stuck up" by the townspeople,
being the daughter of a retired grocer. During the service they all looked at me. Some who
were of the Loude school did it openly: those after the Weighty pattern peeped clandestinely
over their prayer-books, through their fans, or between their fingers when praying. The more
clever would use strategy, shivering as if in a draught of air, and looking around in my direction
to see if a window were open, while the mammas eyed me steadily through spectacles.

"I might have known it," I thought, exasperated: "'tis the same everywhere, unless I should
go to a country where the people are blind."

Dick Hearty, who was there with his sisters, came up after the service and spoke to me. "Looking
well, old fellow!" he said, as if I was not sick of looking well. "Let me introduce you to
my sisters."

His sisters were of the fast and flashy school. Both of them fell in love with me before I
left, though I tried hard to make myself disagreeable, not thinking it right to disappoint
them, being a friend of the brother, and all that. But unless I wear a mask I cannot prevent
such accidents. I hope they will get over it in time. They were deuced nice girls too, but
more like peonies than wild roses.

Well, as I was saying, Dick introduced me, and insisted on taking me home with him at once.
I already began to fear for the success of my object, but could not turn back at the very beginning
of the promised land; so I went with him.

It would be tiresome to tell of all the flirtations and adventures I had while there, or of
all the girls who devoted themselves to me. Like skillful leaders, Miss Loude and Miss Weighty
set the example to their imitators--an example which none were slow to follow. Indeed, it seemed
as if the struggle consisted in seeing who should be first at my feet. I averaged half a dozen
conquests daily: Dick's house was overwhelmed with lady visitors, and it was usually love at
first sight with them all. A second interview was sufficient to win the most intractable. Not
that I cared to win: I was fatigued with victory--my laurels oppressed me. I began to wish,
like that nobby old emperor, Au--I used to know his name--that all womankind had but one heart,
that I might finish it with a look, and then turn my attention to more important matters.

Once I thought I had found her. At one of the picnics given in my honor I saw a sober, pretty
little thing, with rosy cheeks and chestnut hair, who looked intensely rural. I fancied I should
like to talk to her alone for a while, and took her to a spring that was just in sight of the
dancing platform, thinking she would be too timid to go far away from the others. I found her
very sweet and bashful: I could desire nothing more so. She blushed at each word she said,
and made some very innocent remarks, unfettered by the grammatic rules that restrain less ingenuous
people. Hoping to put her at her ease, I talked about the country, the beautiful views, and
all that.

"If you like lovely views," she said shyly, "I can show you one."

"I shall be most happy to see it," I replied.

To tell you of the walk that the treacherous innocent took me, of the rocks we climbed and
the marshy brooks we crossed, and the two hours she kept me at the work! Her stock of conversation
was exhausted in the first ten minutes, and I was too angry to be civil. Two hours of such
silent torture man never underwent before, and yet when we returned tired, with the perspiration
rolling down our faces, I actually overheard her tell one of her companions that it had been
"a delightful walk, I was so agreeable." Just my luck! And that walk made her a belle! After
it all the country beaux flocked around to pay her attention, and she looked upon them as Cinderella
might have viewed her other suitors after the prince had danced with her at the ball. Disgusting!

Dick came to me after a while and said, "Charley, you are so stunning in that velvet coat that
all the girls are in love with you."

"I know it, Dick," I said in a complaining voice--"I know it. It always happens just so. Think
it's the coat? I would take it off in a minute if I thought it was." Then I added with a burst
of confidence, "Dick, 'tis the same with everything I wear: the fascination is in myself. I
would do anything to lessen it, but I can't."

"You are a jolly joker," replied Dick with a tremendous slap on my back, as if I had said something
very funny. I am often witty when I don't mean to be.

But why continue a history which was the same thing day after day? I stayed in the country
more than three weeks. Though doubting, I was conscientious, and left nothing undone to gain
my end. The task bored me far more than my sympathizers did in the summer. Indeed, any of those
friends were bewitching in contrast to the girls I now met, and had one of them dropped in
on me during that tiresome period I think I should have forgotten nice distinctions and made
serious love to her, sure of finding more pleasure in having a single taste in common than
in having none at all.

I believe country-people are even more egotistic than the dwellers in cities. I sometimes found
myself at the most isolated farm-houses looking for my Rose. The men I met there invariably
thought they knew all about the weather and religion, politics and farming; the women were
convinced they had every kind of knowledge worth having, and that what they did not know was
"new-fangled" and not worth a pin; and their daughters believed that they were beauties, or
would be if they had fine clothes to dress in. How people can be so mistaken as to their capacity
is a mystery to me.

During my stay I came to the conclusion that I would rather press a soft hand than a hard one;
that I would rather see a tasty toilette than beauty unadorned; that shy manners are anything
but graceful; that the useful and the beautiful are not likely to be found in the same person;
and that girls, like articles de luxe, should be carefully kept. I like to recall that well-bred,
unconscious air of Miss Haughton; I remember Miss Darling as a model of deportment: why, she
could do the naughtiest things in a less objectionable manner than that of these girls when
acting propriety.

I discovered some facts regarding wild roses. Their petals are few and faded, and their thorns
many and sharp. Their scanty green foliage will always remind me of a calico gown. Take my
word for it, and don't ever go to the trouble of seeking one. Give me a full-blown damask rose.
What care I if it was nursed in a hot-house or if its beauty is due to the gardener's care?
I thank the gardener and take the rose. Or give me a half-open sulphira, with suggestive odors
and soft curving leaves, passion-pale in tint, or a gorgeous amaryllis produced by artful development,
clothed like a queen in state, bearing erect her magic beauty. No more wild roses for me!

CHAPTER II.

I had been at Breezy Brook, that beautiful summer resort which you all know, about a month:
it was now July, and nothing had happened worth relating since my arrival. During the past
winter I had not been idle--attending parties, balls and operas without number, but without
success. This summer I made up my mind to be tranquil and to let events take their course,
for, as Fortune had given me every other good, she would no doubt in time provide me with a
good wife. I had therefore every reason to be patient.

I was in an unsociable mood one afternoon; so, taking a cigar and book, I sauntered up the
mountain. There is an arbor halfway to its top, and I have a lounging-place near by, where
the roots of an old tree make a comfortable nest just above a steep precipice, and the place
is hidden from intruders by rocks and foliage. 'Tis a discovery of mine I pride myself upon,
and I go there when I want to collect my thoughts and enjoy my own company.

Hardly had I made myself comfortable in my retreat when I heard voices in the arbor below.
It was Mrs. Fluffy and her sister, Mrs. J.K.B. Stunner. I knew them in a moment, though they
were not visible. Panting for breath, Mrs. F. invited the other to take a seat: she was very
stout and soon tired. The sisters were examples of opposite schools of art. Mrs. Stunner, dark,
hard and sharp-faced, was a widow with all her daughters "well settled" in life--i.e., married
to wealthy husbands--and was considered "fortunate" among the matrons. Mrs. Fluffy was soft
and florid, without an angular point, physically or mentally: much younger and prettier than
her sister, she was always spoken of as "poor Mrs. Fluffy," though she was not badly off that
I could see. She had two daughters "out" this season, and a third casting longing looks in
the same direction.

Thinking they would move on shortly, as the arbor was only a halting-place for people walking
to the summit, I lay snug and waited. Presently the widow, among other commonplaces, began
to discuss the young ladies at The Brook.

"By the by, Sarah," she said, "I don't see that your girls are doing much this season: I really
must say you do not seem to manage well at all. You may be playing a very deep game, but I
can discover no signs of it, and there is little that escapes me in such matters."

"Oh, Jane!" panted Mrs. F., "if you only knew the trouble of having two daughters 'out' at once!"

"As if I didn't know!" snuffed Mrs. Stunner.

"True, true," replied Sarah in a conciliatory tone. "But you seemed to have so little anxiety."

"Seemed!" echoed the Stunner contemptuously. "Of course I seemed, and the difficulty it required
to seem! Do you think I was so witless as to let my manoeuvres be seen? I wonder at you, Sarah!"

"Well, well," said the other, yielding the point, "I know you have a talent for such things,
and can manage well, but I don't know what to do."

"I--should--think--you--did--not," replied her sister, tapping the ground slowly with her foot.

"What have I done that you should speak like that, Jane?" asked the meek Sarah, bridling up.

"Tell me," answered Jane after an ominous silence that was quite thrilling, "where is Eva at
this moment?"

"Oh,", replied Sarah with a sigh of relief, "she is walking with Mr. Hardcash. You introduced
him at the last ball."

"I introduced him to dance with, not to walk with," said Jane severely.

"Goodness me, sister! what's the difference?"

"She asks me 'What's the difference?' Are you a child? Why, just the difference between dancing
and walking."

From the pause that followed I knew that Mrs. F. was looking with both her round eyes, intent
on seeing it. I suppose she did not succeed, as her sister continued, emphasizing each word
clearly, "Mr. Hardcash has not a penny," as if that at once explained the knotty question.

"Why did you introduce him if you don't approve of him?" asked Mrs. Fluffy, with a feeble attempt
to throw the blame on her sister.

"Have I not told you? In a ball-room girls need plenty of partners--plenty of men about them.
It makes them look popular and fascinating, and if the gentlemen are handsome and stylish-looking,
so much the better. Mr. Hardcash is just the size to waltz well with Eva--he shows her off
to advantage--but he is not a man to encourage afterward. She should not be seen walking or
talking intimately with a gentleman who has less than ten thousand a year." Mrs. Stunner delivered
this ultimatum with the tone of a just judge who will hear of no appeal.

"How can I know how much the gentlemen are worth?" said Sarah pettishly.

"It is your duty as a mother to discover it," replied the virtuous widow.

"But how?"

"The visitors' book will tell where a man is from; you can easily get acquainted with some
old lady or gentleman from the same place; and--"

"What! and ask about them!"

"Nonsense! Speak of them, praise them if you wish, and let the others talk: you have only to
be an interested listener" (here I could imagine Mrs. S. smiling grimly), "and you can soon
hear enough. For instance, commence in this way: 'Fine fellow, Mr. T. from your part of the
country.' As a general rule the old gentleman will then give you his whole history. Another
time you may say, 'What a pleasant young man that Mr. B. is! but rather inclined to be wild,
eh?' If he is you will soon know it. You can also cross-question the man himself. Speak of
a little girl he has at home: if he blushes he is netted already, and lures are useless. See
how he eats his dinner: that is a good test to judge his position by; not that a few gaucheries
will matter if he is very wealthy--for a judicious mother-in-law can soon correct them--but
for every impropriety he should have a thousand added to his income. Such things are so intolerable
in a poor man!"

"I don't think Eva would obey me if I did interfere in her affairs," objected Mrs. Fluffy.

"Her affairs, indeed! It is your affair. Of course you want a son-in-law who can keep a comfortable
house for you to live in. You have brought up Eva badly, Sarah, and there is one thing I must
tell you about her--she is entirely too familiar and sisterly with gentlemen."

"She has a great many beaux," interrupted Mrs. F.

"It is one of her worst faults," continued Jane, not listening to her. "If a girl gets into
those sisterly habits with a man, it will never come into his head to marry her. She may be
his chief confidante; he will talk of his lady-love to her, and she may end by being first
bridesmaid at his wedding, but nothing nearer. I don't approve of it. One of my maxims is,
that a man ought not be well acquainted with the girl he is to marry until the ceremony is
performed."

"Well, you cannot disapprove of Laura," said Mrs. Fluffy, trying to turn the conversation.
"I left her in her room reading."

"'Disapprove' of her? The word is not strong enough for my feelings. Neither of your girls
has the least bit of common sense; but I don't wonder, with such a mother! A girl who gets
a reputation for being learned and saying brilliant things might just as well give up matrimony
altogether. Men are either afraid of them or detest them: gentlemen don't like to puzzle their
brains over a witticism, nor do they admire chaffing that is beyond their comprehension. Courtship
should be made easy. My Jane was clever, and vexed me a great deal in consequence, daughters
of that kind are so unmanageable: give me the most stupid in preference. It is pleasant to
a husband to feel his superiority, to look down on his wife. The mediocre is the girl I take
most delight in. There are so many mediocre men that they are sure to get suited without giving
you much anxiety."

"Jane," exclaimed Mrs. Fluffy with a burst of admiration, "you are so clever I wonder you ever
were married. Did Mr. Stunner appreciate that kind of women?"

"La! no. I had the sense to conceal my talents. Take my word for it, superior people as a class
are never liked, unless they do as I did--conceal it, conceal it."

"I am glad I was not born talented: I fear I could not succeed in hiding it as you do." Mrs.
F. was too stupid for sarcasm, else I should have thought--

"Now be frank with me, Sarah," broke in Mrs. Stunner, scattering my thoughts: "who is paying
attention to Eva now?"

"Well," replied the other, appearing to recollect, "there is Mr. Rich: he asked her to ride
with him."

"More than once?"

"No, not more, but it was only day before yesterday."

"Ah! he may ask her again: once means nothing. A gentleman may ask her for pastime, or to make
some one else jealous, or out of good-nature, but to a girl properly brought up once is a chance--it
is a good start." (Mrs. S.'s late husband was fond of racing.) "It rests entirely with her
to make the once twice, the twice thrice, and so on; for if she is amusing and don't talk love,
he will be sure to ask her again."

"'Don't talk love'? Why, Jane, you surprise me! I thought that was the proper thing to do."

"Just where people mistake. The most stupid man can talk love if he feels love. Let girls be
agreeable, sweet and charming, but without especial effort to appear so, and when gentlemen
are captivated they will do their own love-making."

"Dear me!" was the reply.

"Yes, I protest against young ladies throwing themselves at the head of every marriageable
gentleman they see. They should think of the effect it will have."

"But they are so unworldly that they don't think of effect," said Mrs. Fluffy.

"Humph!" ejaculated the widow in a tone of incredulity.

"You seem to have a very poor opinion of women, Jane."

"They want to marry, all of them: you admit that, don't you?" asked Mrs. Stunner severely.

"I think not," objected Mrs. F. in a feeble voice. "There is Miss Furnaval: they say she has
refused--"

"Then," interrupted her sister, not heeding her, "if they want to marry, why not take the proper
means? It is inconceivable to me how women, after thinking about it all their lives, blunder
into it in the end, just as if it was an entirely unforeseen event. A little good sense is
requisite in everything, I think."

"They are not all anxious to marry," reiterated Mrs. Fluffy, gaining courage: "there's Miss
Furnaval--"

"A great example to give one!" remarked her sister contemptuously. "She is making a fool of
herself as fast as she can. Among all the young ladies who marry badly, the fascinating ones
prosper the worst. No girl can refuse a good offer with impunity: a day of reckoning will come.
Society has its laws, which must be obeyed: if not, gare! Mark my words," continued Mrs. Stunner
solemnly: "Miss Furnaval has some outlandish un-society principles, and practically they will
not work. Why, she is quite as well contented talking to a poor man as to a rich one, and she
is always encouraging worthless, amusing, handsome fellows--talented men, instead of men whose
position dispenses with the necessity of their having brains. Those fellows she has about her
are the pests of society. If you hear of a runaway match, you may be sure it is with one of
them; if a daughter is obstinate, you may be sure some ineligible jackanapes has prompted her
to it. Blanche will end badly. She will fall in love with one of them some day, and finish
by marrying him."

"If Miss Furnaval loves one of that kind of gentlemen, I don't see why she might not be happy
with him."

"You don't see anything, Sarah. You don't see the nose on your face, though I see 'tis a very
big one. I will make it evident to you. He will be poor, Blanche is rich: if she gives him
her money, he will spend it. Never having had any of his own, he won't know how to take care
of it. If, on the other hand, she don't give it to him, he will think she does not care for
him--will get jealous, likely take to drink: your clever man always does. They will quarrel;
then her clever husband will use his clever tongue to tease her, and his clever brain to thwart
and provoke her--which a stupid man would never think of doing--and, worse than all, she will
never get the least chance to have her own way in anything."

"Poor Blanche! I pity her," sighed Mrs. Fluffy.

"I don't, in the least," snapped the other. "Such an example will serve to make other girls
more sensible. Only you take it as a warning to your own Eva."

After quite a long silence, in which I suppose Mrs. Fluffy was considering, she said pathetically,
"I wish you would tell me what to do with Eva."

"Marry her as soon as possible," was the prompt and decided reply. "It is her second summer
'out,' and she should at least be engaged."

"I can do nothing. What do you advise, Jane?"

"In the first place, stop her being with such gentlemen as Mr. Hardcash."

"Eva is so high-spirited," groaned Mrs. Fluffy, "I fear she would not listen to me."

"You mean obstinate, Sarah. Tell her seriously that she has had two very gay seasons--that
you can't afford another--that she must make up her mind now. Then think over all the most
eligible gentlemen you know, and cultivate their acquaintance."

"Couldn't you help me, Jane?" asked the other timidly. "I shall not know what to do."

"Let me see," continued Mrs. S. in a musing tone. "If you had a country-house you could manage
better. Elderly gentlemen are usually pleased with domestic attractions, and there are many
little attentions that you and Eva could show them which in any other position would look like
courting them. Then there would be no danger of competition. Indeed, if a pretty girl has a
gentleman all to herself for a week or two at a romantic country-house, a wedding is sure to
follow. But there must be no jarring, fretting, bad cooking or any household ill whatever--no
talk of poor servants or dishonest grooms: everything must be couleur de rose."

"Jane, it appears to me you are talking very silly," said Mrs. Fluffy, glad of a chance to
attack her superior sister. "You know I have no country-house, and I can't buy one just to
marry Eva and Laura from."

"I merely said if you had. I thought you might be pleased to hear my theory," replied Mrs.
Stunner stiffly, "The next best thing for you is to have a parlor here, get up picnics and
drives, make card-parties with suppers--gentlemen so like to eat!--and do not spare expense
when you have a good investment in view. You can limit the invitations to two or three gentlemen
who are especially eligible: make these some little compliment, such as 'You will come of course--our
little party would not be complete without you.' Contrive that they take care of the girls,
and you can entertain the others. Occasionally include some young ladies in your evenings,
so that the world may not say you are afraid of them, but don't let them become intimate."--Here
Mrs. Stunner paused for breath.

"It sounds easy enough," said poor Mrs. F. dolefully.

"It is not easy at all," sharply replied her sister, "but if we manage well we sha'n't have
to go through with it more than one summer."

"Then you will help me?"

"I suppose I must sacrifice myself for the good of the family," said the Stunner in an heroic
tone, "but you must let me have my own way entirely."

"Oh yes, Jane--certainly. I am so much obliged!" replied Mrs. Fluffy with effusion.

"Then it is not necessary to explain my plans further: I shall be there and will manage."

"But whom do you think we should invite, Jane dear?" asked Mrs. F. anxiously.

"You spoke of Mr. Rich. I approve of him: I know he has twenty thousand a year. Yes, he shall
be one."

"I am afraid Eva won't like him," Mrs. Fluffy timidly remarked.

"Eva shall not interfere with my plans, and don't you commence with such nonsense as liking
and disliking; I won't have it," retorted Mrs. S. in a louder voice than she would have used
had she known I was so near.

"But there might be some nicer gentleman just as wealthy, might there not?" suggested the weak
sister.

"There is David Todd, with thirty thousand a year: I wonder if he would suit the dainty Eva?"
said Mrs. Jane, sneering.

"I think she would like Mr. Highrank to be invited," observed pink Mrs. Fluffy, waiving the
question.

I sat up and listened attentively when I heard my own name mentioned, not forgetful of the
adage that listeners hear no good of themselves, but of course I had nothing to fear.

"More sensible than I thought Eva could be," the Stunner rejoined. "Forty thousand a year and
entailed, so that he can't get through with it. I have observed him a good deal for several
seasons, and I find that though he is such a fool, the sharpest girls can do nothing with him.
When so many are after him I suppose no single one can have a fair chance. Yes, we will invite
him, but I hope Eva will not think of falling in love with him unless he should propose. Indeed,
I think a modest girl ought never to fall in love. It seems to me indecorous, at least before
marriage--after, they can do as they like about it. You must warn Eva on the subject. If any
other gentleman should ask for her, she must not refuse, because we could not count on Highrank
making up his mind: I have an idea that he is too weak to form a resolution of any kind."

I thought the old woman must be bilious. "Me a fool!"--a philosopher rather. But I have always
known that exalted worth is a fault in the estimation of narrow-minded people, who can't appreciate
it. Little Eva has more sense--would like me to visit her: of course the poor child is in love
with me. I wish I could tease that ridiculous old lady in some way. I have a confounded mind
to run off with Eva. No, that, I fear, would please Aunt Stunner. But I am missing all her
trash: better listen. It is really not worth getting heated over.

"The others I will see about," continued Aunt Jane. "It is very little consequence who they
are. Only one thing: I won't have that Hardcash about: he and Eva have been entirely too much
together."

"She is rough on Ned," thought I in ambush.

"I am afraid you won't be able to manage Eva, my dear Jane."

"Don't worry. When I have a duty to perform I go through with it. Let us walk on to the summit."

"Just as you like: I am sufficiently rested, and we can talk as we go."

There was a rustling of silk and a crunching of gravel, and all was quiet.

I lay there thinking for a long while: I wonder if my poor mother, were she living, would take
as much trouble to procure me a wife as Mrs. Stunner is going to take to provide Eva with a
husband. I wonder mothers don't help their sons to marry, and let their daughters help themselves.
Girls are so much sharper about such things than men are. Everything is against us. I suppose
women think they deceive us for our good, but they should continue to do so after marriage.
'Pon honor! I have seen the sweetest, most amiable girl turn as sour as could be a few months
after the ceremony. The dressiest ones often get dowdy, the most musical can't abide music,
the most talkative have the dumps. A man has no chance of judging how they are going to turn
out. He is duped by the daughters, inveigled by their mothers, and, what is worse still, as
soon as he is married they both undeceive him. It would not matter if a fellow was cheated
if he never knew it, but that's where it hurts.

I shouldn't wonder if that pair of old plotters would catch me yet if I don't take care. I
will tease them a bit, any way: I'll pay a deuced lot of attention to Eva, and keep the other
fellows away. No man would try to win her if he thought I was serious.

Blanche Furnaval is an odd girl, I went on musing. They said she would end badly--hope she
won't, though. Bewitching girl, but she don't seem to care if people admire her or not. I never
can quite understand her. Once I wrote a few verses and gave them to her--compared her to an
ice-covered stream, quiet on the surface, but all motion and tumult below. Well, she never
even thanked me for them, though she said she liked that simile, it was so new. There was another
couplet about her name--Blanche and snow and cold: when she read it she laughed and said, "Though
my name means white, it does not mean cold. You know there are some white things that are very
warm, Mr. Highrank--my ermine muff, for instance." But I made a clever answer. I said, "The
muff looks cold, and so does Miss Blanche, but if I could be so fortunate as to touch the heart
of either I might find warmth." "My muff has no heart," she answered, looking at me as if she
did not understand. "And is its owner in the same condition?" I asked tenderly. (I make it
a rule to speak tenderly to all girls, it is so sad for them to love me when I cannot return
it.) "In a poetical sense I believe she is," she replied, "but for all practical purposes she
has one that serves very well."

Sometimes she would be invisible for two or three days together: no one would see her, either
at meals or at the evening ball. When asked what she had been doing, she would smile that sweet
smile of hers and say she had been enjoying herself. She was very talented, but not a bit ostentatious.
To give you an example: It was rumored that she had a wonderful voice, and though we had been
begging her to sing for at least a month, she steadily refused to gratify us. One day there
was a queer old Italian chap came to The Brook for his health. He looked like an organ-grinder,
and had been once actually on the stage. Well, do you know she allowed him to be introduced
to her, and talked to him with as much deference as if he had been a prince, when she ought
not have spoken to him at all, you know; and in that gibberish, too, that no one can understand.
One evening, after entertaining him for about an hour, she walked with him the whole length
of the room, not noticing any one, though every eye was upon her. He sat down at the piano
which stood in a corner, struck a few chords, and then, with no coaxing whatever, she sang;
and such a song! Her gray eyes grew dark, and her voice quivered, deepened, expanded into a
melody that made you think the heavens had suddenly opened. Every other sound ceased; the doors
and windows were filled with eager faces; the dancers ended in the middle of a quadrille, and
the band came in a body to listen. I saw one fat Dutchman holding his fiddle in one hand while
he wiped the tears from his eyes with the other. When the song was ended the old Italian took
both her hands in his and kissed them, talking at the same time with impossible rapidity; and
she smiled and looked as happy as if she had won a prize, turning her back on every one else
who wished to congratulate her. It showed how very odd she was. The next evening I asked her
to sing, and she flatly refused without the least excuse, saying, "No: a refusal will be a
pleasant novelty in your life, Mr. Highrank."

     ITA ANIOL PROKOP.

[TO BE CONTINUED]

THE STRANGER WITHIN THE GATES OF PARIS.

"Paris," once said Victor Hugo to me, "is the hostess of all the nations. There all the world
is at home. It is the second best place with all foreigners--the fatherland first, and afterward
Paris."

There was a great deal of truth in the observation, and especially is it true as regards Americans.
By our natural sociability and versatility of temperament, by our love of all bright and pleasant
surroundings, by our taste for pleasure and amusement, we assimilate more closely in our superficial
characteristics to the French nation than we do to any other. Our Britannic cousins are too
cold, too unsociable, too heavy for our fraternization, and mighty barriers of dissimilarity
of language, of tastes, of customs and manners divide us from the European nation which of
all others we most closely resemble in essential particulars--namely, the Northern Germans.
The Prussians have been called--and that, too, with a good deal of truth--the Yankees of Europe;
and if the term "Yankees" means, as it usually does in European parlance, the entire population
of the United States, we citizens of the great republic have every right to feel proud of the
comparison. Yet, with all our genuine respect and admiration for the Prussians, there are but
few American tourists who take kindly to that people or their country. The lack of the external
polish, the graceful manners and winning ways of the Parisians is severely felt by the chance
tarrier within the gates of Berlin. We accord our fullest meed of honor to the great conquering
nation of Europe, to its wonderful system of education, its admirable military discipline,
and its sturdy opposition to superstition and ignorance in their most aggressive form. And
yet we do not like Prussia or the Prussians. We scoff at Berlin, planted on a sandy plain and
new with the thriving, aggressive newness of some of our own cities. We long for the soft shadows
of antiquity, the dim twilight of past glories, to overhang our daily path as we journey onward
through the storied lands of the ancient world. We have enough of bright progressive prosperity
at home. Something of the feeling of the artist, who turns from the trim, elegant damsel arrayed
in the latest fashion to paint the figure of a beggar-girl draped in picturesque rags, hangs
about us as we travel. It is only to Paris--Paris beautiful in its strange blending of smoky
ruins and splendid, freshly-erected mansions--that we can pardon the white glare of newly-opened
streets, the Vandal desecration of antique landmarks, the universal sacrifice of old memories,
historic associations and antique picturesqueness on that altar of modern progress whose high
priest was Baron Haussmann and whose divinity was Napoleon III.

We love Paris, we Americans abroad, and we like the Parisians. One side of our affection grows
and strengthens and sends forth new shoots with every passing day. The longer one lives in
Paris the better one loves it. Its beauty becomes part and parcel of one's daily life. The
mighty sweep of palace and arcade and museum and church, the plash of sunlit fountains, the
rustle and the shimmer of resplendent foliage, the grace of statue, the grandeur of monument,
the far-stretching splendor of brilliant boulevard and bustling street,--all these make up
a picture whose lines are engraven on our heart of hearts. Often, passing along the street,
some far-off vista, some effect of light and color, some single point of view, strikes on the
sense with new and startling beauty, and we pause to gaze and to admire, and to exclaim for
the thousandth time, How fair is Paris!

And she is so prodigal of her treasures, this goodly city! She lavishes them on all comers
without fee or favor. All day long her princely art-galleries stand open to welcome the passing
visitor. One comes and goes unhindered and unquestioned in church or museum, and even the service
of guides and boats and cars to the sewers, and of official guides to the Catacombs, is given
without compensation--nay more, all fees are strictly; forbidden. There is no city on earth
that receives its guests with such splendid and lavish hospitality. Apart from one's board
and lodging, it is possible for a stranger to come to Paris and to visit all its principal
sights without the expenditure of a single sou. And for the persons who, prolonging their stay,
wish in some sort to take up their permanent residence in Paris, things are smoothed and ironed
and the knots picked out in the most wonderful way. Your board is dainty and your bed soft.
Velvet-footed and fairy-handed beings minister to your wants. You are clothed as if by magic
in garments of marvelous beauty. The very rustle of your letter of credit is as an open sesame
to treasure-chambers to which Ali Baba's cavern was but a shabby cellar. And if, on the contrary,
your means are limited and your wants but few, the science of living has been so exactly conned
and is so perfectly understood that your franc-piece will buy you as many necessaries as ever
your fifty-cent greenback did home, and that, too, in face of the fact that all provisions
are now, owing to the war and the taxes, as dear, if not dearer than they are in Philadelphia.
If a stranger comes to Paris and wishes to live comfortably and economically, there are plenty
of respectable, well-situated establishments in the best section of the city where he can obtain
a comfortable, well-furnished room and well-cooked, well-served meals, for eight to ten francs
a day--such accommodations as five dollars would scarcely avail to purchase in Philadelphia
or New York.

The whole secret of the matter is, that in France everybody understands the art of making the
most out of everything. No scrap of food is wasted, no morsel cast aside, till every particle
of nourishment it can yield is carefully extracted. The portions given to the guests at the
minor hotels, where one lives en pension at so much per diem, are carefully measured for individual
consumption. The slice of steak, the tiny omelette, the minute moulded morsels of butter, even
the roll of bread and little sucrier and cream-jug placed before each person, have each been
carefully gauged as to the usual dimensions of an ordinary appetite. Nothing is squandered
and nothing is wasted. When one recalls the aspect of our hotel tables at home--the bread-plates
left with their piles of cold, uneatable corn-bread, and heavy, chilled muffins and sodden
toast uneaten, uncared-for and wasted; the huge steak, with its scrap of tenderloin carefully
scolloped out, and the rest left to be thrown away; the broiled chicken--the legs scorned in
favor of the more toothsome breast; the half-emptied plates of omelettes and fried potatoes,--one
realizes how low prices for board in Paris are still compatible with the increased price of
provisions, and why we must pay five dollars at home for accommodations for which we expend
two here. The same wastefulness creeps into all the details of our hotel-life. If we want a
glass of ice-water, for instance, we are straight-way supplied with a pitcher brimming over
with huge crystal lumps of transparent ice. One-half the quantity would suffice for all actual
purposes: the rest is left to melt and run to waste.

The fact is, that we citizens of the United States live more luxuriously than any other people
on the face of the earth. On an average we dress better, fare better, sleep softer, and combat
the cold in winter and the heat in summer with more scientific persistency, than do any of
the so-called luxurious nations of Europe. Take, for instance, the matter of heating and lighting.
A few of the leading hotels in Paris, and a small minority among the most expensive suites
of private apartments, have gas introduced into all the rooms, but as a general thing it is
confined to the public rooms, and the unfortunate wight who longs to see beyond the end of
his nose is forced to wrestle with dripping candles and unclean lamps, known only by tradition
in our native land. The gaslight, which is a common necessary in the simplest private dwelling
in an American city, is here a luxury scarcely attainable save by the very wealthiest. And
we do not know how precious our gaslight is till we have lost it. To sit in a dim parlor where
four lighted candles struggle vainly to disperse the gloom, to dress for opera or ball by the
uncertain glimmer of those greasy delusions, is enough to make one forswear all the luxuries
of Paris, and flee homeward forthwith.

Then in winter comes the question of warmth. What is more delicious than to plunge from the
iced-champagne atmosphere of a sparkling winter's day in America into the nest-like, all-pervading
warmth of an American home? Here such comfort is wholly unknown. The cold, though less severe
than with us, is damp, raw and insidious, and creeps under wraps with a treacherous persistency
that nothing can shut out. The ill-fitting windows, opening in the old door-like fashion, let
in every breath of the chill outer air. A fire is a handful of sticks or half a dozen lumps
of coal. The calorifère, a poor substitute for our powerful furnaces, is a luxury for the very
rich--an innovation grudgingly granted to the whims of the occupants of the most costly and
fashionable of private apartments. Warmth, our cosy, all-pervading warmth, is a winter luxury
that we leave behind us with the cheerful light of our universal gas-burners.

In summer we sorely miss the cold, pure ice-water of our native land, and we long for it with
a thirst which vin ordinaire and Bavarian beer are powerless to assuage. The ill-tasting limestone-tainted
water of Paris is a poor substitute for our sparkling draughts of Schuylkill or Croton. Ice-pitchers,
water-coolers and refrigerators are unknown quantities in the sum-total of Parisian luxuries.
The "cup of cold water," which the traveler in our country finds gratuitously supplied in every
waiting-room and railway-station, every steamboat, every car and every hotel, is here something
that must be specially sought for, and paid for at an exorbitant price. Ice can be purchased
only in small quantities for immediate consumption. Ten cents for a few lumps swimming in water
on a tepid plate is the usual tariff for this our American necessity, this rare Parisian luxury.

The scant supply of water for ablution is another annoyance to the American traveler accustomed
to the hot-and cold-water faucets introduced into private bed-rooms and hotel apartments, and
the capacious bath-tubs and unlimited control of water in his native land. To be sure, one
can get a bath in Paris, as well as anywhere else, by ordering it and waiting for it and paying
for it; but the free use of water and its gratuitous supply in hotels, so entirely a matter
of course with us, is here unheard of. As with ice-water, the bath is an American necessity,
a Parisian luxury. However, the latest erected dwelling-houses here have had water-pipes and
bath-tubs introduced. Wealth can command its bath here as well as its gaslight and its supplies
of ice, but wealth only. The humblest abode of a Philadelphia mechanic contains comforts and
conveniences which are wellnigh unattainable luxuries in all but the most splendid apartments
of the most luxurious city of Europe.

Nor do all the delicate artifices of French cookery suffice wholly to replace for an American
palate the dainties of his native land. The buckwheat cakes and waffles, the large, delicate-flavored,
luscious oysters, the canvas-back ducks, the Philadelphia croquettes and terrapin, find no
substitutes on this side of the water. The delicious shad and Spanish mackerel have no gastronomic
rivals in these waters, and the sole must be accepted in their stead. We miss, too, our profusion
and variety of vegetables, our stewed and stuffed tomatoes, green corn, oyster-plants and sweet
potatoes. As for fruits, the smaller varieties are far more abundant and much finer here than
they are with us. Strawberries, cherries, raspberries, gooseberries, apricots--all of great
size and exquisite flavor--tempt and enchant the palate. But our rich profusion of tropical
fruits, such as bananas and pineapples, is wholly unknown. Peaches are poor in flavor and exorbitant
in price. As for meats, poultry is dearer in Paris than at home, a small chicken for fricasseeing
costing six francs ($1.20 in gold), and a large one for roasting ten francs ($2). Beef and
mutton are at about the same prices as in Philadelphia and New York. Butter costs from sixty
to seventy cents a pound. One can easily see, therefore, that it takes all the skill and experience
in domestic economy of Parisian housekeepers to maintain the prices of living at anything like
its present standard in pensions and hotels. But, in truth, the general standard of French
cooking has been much lowered since the war. A really sumptuous French dinner is no longer
to be procured at any of the tables d'hôte or the leading hotels, and if ordered at a first-class
restaurant it will cost twice as much as it used to do.

Rents, though somewhat lowered from their former proportions, are still very high, a really
elegant unfurnished suite of apartments costing from five thousand to ten thousand francs a
year, according to location; and if furnished, nearly as much more. Two thousand francs is
the lowest rent which economy, desirous of two or three bed-rooms, in addition to the parlor,
kitchen and dining-room of an ordinary suite, can accomplish. There are now in process of construction
in the suburbs of Paris several rows of houses built on the American plan, and it is hardly
possible to tell how comfortable and home-like the neat separate abodes look to one who has
been journeying round amid a series of "floors," each so like the others. To the casual visitor
there is a despairing amount of sameness in the fitting-up of all French furnished apartments.
The scarlet coverings on the furniture, the red curtains, the light moquette carpet with white
ground and gay flowers, the white and gold of the woodwork, the gilt bronze clock and candelabra,
the tables and cabinets in marquetry and buhl, are all precisely alike in each, and all wear
the same hotel-like look and lack of individuality. Nobody here seems to care anything for
home or home belongings. A suite of apartments, even if occupied by the proprietor, is not
the shrine for any household gods or tender ideas: it is a place to rent out at so much per
month should the owner desire to go on a journey. No weak sentimental ideas about keeping one's
personal belongings from the touch and the usage of strangers ever troubles anybody's mind.
Tables and chairs and carpets and curtains are just so many chattels that will bring in, if
rented, just so much more income: around them gleams no vestige of the tender halo that surrounds
the appurtenances of an American home.

The servant question is one that is just now of special interest to the American housekeeper
in Paris. I have elsewhere spoken of some of the trials inflicted by these accomplished but
often unprincipled domestics on their masters and mistresses, so will not expatiate further
on the subject. I will merely specify as a special grievance the law that forces the employer
who discharges a servant to inscribe on his or her character-book a good character: should
the departing help have been sent away for gross immorality, theft or drunkenness, and should
the master write down the real reason of the dismissal, he renders himself liable to an action
for defamation of character. The person, therefore, who engages servants from their character-book
has no real guarantee as to their worth. It is a well-known fact also that the intelligence
offices in Paris are far more anxious to obtain places for bad servants than for good ones,
because the former class return to them more frequently, and are consequently the better customers.
As to the percentage exacted from grocers and provision-dealers by cooks and stewards--a percentage
which of course comes indirectly out of the pocket of the master--the evil has become a crying
one, but it is apparently irremediable. A provision-dealer opened not long since a shop in
one of the most fashionable quarters of Paris, and sent round circulars to all the housekeepers
in the neighborhood announcing his determination of paying no percentage to servants. The consequence
was, that not one of the cooks would buy anything of him, and he has been forced to break up
his establishment and depart. It is an impossibility to engage a first-class cook without according
to her the privilege of doing all the marketing--a privilege by which she is enabled to more
than double the amount of her wages at her employer's expense.

Among the other drawbacks of a residence abroad to an American woman is an absence of the kindly
deference to which, by virtue of her womanhood alone, she is accustomed at home. The much-vaunted
politeness of the French nation is the thinnest possible varnish over real impertinence or
actual rudeness. None of the true, heartfelt, genuine courtesy that is so freely accorded to
our sex in our own favored land is to be met with here. "A woman is weak and defenceless,"
argue, apparently, a large class of Parisians, "therefore we will stare her out of countenance,
we will mutter impudent speeches in her ear, we will elbow her off the sidewalk, we will thrust
her aside if we want to enter a public conveyance. Politeness is a thing of hat-lifting, of
bowing and scraping, of 'Pardon!' and 'Merci!' It is an article to be worn, like a dress-coat
and a white tie, in a drawing-room and among our acquaintances. We have the right article for
that occasion--very sweet, very refined, very graceful, very charming indeed. But as for everyday
use--nenni!" That deep, true and chivalrous courtesy that respects and protects a woman merely
because she is a woman, and as such needs the guardianship of the stronger sex, is something
of which they have never heard and which they do not understand. They will hand Madame la duchesse
de la Haute Volée or Mademoiselle Trois-Étoiles into her carriage with incomparable grace,
but they will push Mrs. Brown into the gutter, and will whisper in poor blushing Miss Brown's
ear that she is "une fillette charmante."

And when a Frenchman is rude, his impoliteness is worse than that of other nations, because
he knows better: he is rude with malice prepense. The lower classes have especially lost much
of their courtesy since the Commune. I have seen a French workingman thrust a lady violently
aside on a crowded sidewalk, with a scowl and a muttered curse that lent significance to the
act. And the graceful, suave courtesy of the shopkeepers--how swiftly it flies out of the window
when their hope of profit in the shape of the departing shopper walks out of the door!

Shortly before quitting the United States I went into one of our large public libraries to
consult a voluminous work of reference. In the remote recess where the books were kept sat
a gentleman intent on the perusal of a volume, his chair tipped back as far as it could be
with safety inclined, and his feet resting on the table. "Horrid fellow!" I said to myself,
glancing at the obtrusive members, and going forward to the bookcase in search of the work
I wanted. It proved to be of somewhat ponderous dimensions, and higher than I could conveniently
reach, so I stood on tiptoe and tugged vainly at it for a moment. My friend of the feet saw
my dilemma, and down went his book, and he sprang to my assistance in an instant, "Allow me,"
he said; and in a moment the heavy tome was brought down, dusted by a few turns of his pocket-handkerchief
and laid on the table for my accommodation. If he had but known it, there was mingled with
my thanks a world of unuttered but heartfelt apologies for my former hard thoughts respecting
his attitude. And therein lay the difference between the two nationalities. A Frenchman would
have died rather than have made a library-table a resting-place for his feet, but he would
have let a woman he did not know break a blood-vessel by her exertions before he would have
rendered her the slightest assistance.

American women are too apt to accept all the courtesies offered them by strangers at home as
their right, even neglecting to render the poor meed of thanks in return. But let them when
in Paris try to get into an omnibus on a wet day, and being thrust aside by a strong-armed
Frenchman they will remorsefully remember the seats accorded to them in crowded cars, and accepted
thanklessly and as a matter of course. And when the lounger on the boulevards dogs their steps
or whispers his insulting compliments in their shuddering ear, they will remember how they
were guarded at home not by one protector, but by all right-minded mankind, and will thank
Heaven that their brothers, their sons, their husbands "are not even as these are."

     LUCY H. HOOPER.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

GYPSY MUSIC IN HUNGARY.

We have all, at some time or other, felt our curiosity and interest excited by the bands of
wandering gypsies whom we may sometimes have come upon in their encampments pitched in some
remote or sequestered wood or dell--wild-looking men and women and dark, ragged children grouped
about fires over which hang kettles suspended from stakes arranged in a triangle; mongrel curs
which seem to share their masters' instinctive distrust of strangers; and donkeys browsing
near the tilted carts which convey the tribe from one place to another. We feel a sort of traditional
repulsion for these people, almost amounting to dread, for stories of children stolen by gypsies,
and of their dark, mysterious ways, have taken root in our infant minds along with those of
ghosts and goblins, robbers and Indians. There are, it is true, romantic associations connected
with them, and we try to fancy a Meg Merrilies in the swarthy old woman who examines the lines
of our hand and tells us the past, present and future--sometimes with a startling consistency
and probability. But few of us would have supposed that this race of vagabonds and outcasts
had ever risen much above their traditional occupation of tinkering, far less that any portion
of it had displayed original artistic genius. We have, however, from Robert Franz the composer
a most interesting account of the wonderful music of the Hungarian gypsies or Tziganys, which
he had several opportunities of hearing during a visit to a friend in Hungary. He had been
much impressed in his youth by the wandering apparitions of these people in the streets of
Kiev, and by the strange, wild dances of their women, whose outlandish garb was rendered still
more effective by the pieces of red stuff cut into hearts and sewed all over their skirts.
"These caravans of strange beings, who preserve under every sky their dreamy laziness, their
rebellion against the yoke, their love of solitude," had always possessed an irresistible charm
for him, and he had never understood the scorn and disgust of which they were the object.

Being informed of the arrival of a gypsy band within eight or ten miles of his friend's château,
he took his immediate departure for the forest where they had made their temporary home. The
sun was going down when he reached the camp. It was in an open glade, where the ground was
trampled down, in some places blackened by fire, and covered with fragments of coarse pottery,
wooden bowls, bones, parings, etc. The gypsies were there pell-mell--men, women and children,
horses, dogs and wagons. The men, lounging about in various attitudes, were smoking: all had
a look of careless nobility about them, an air of melancholy, and eyes which burned with slumbering
passion. Old women were cowering about the fires, surrounded by children whose meagre limbs
were frankly displayed to view. Tall girls, with Oriental eyes, firm and polished cheeks, and
vigorous forms, stood facing the horizon, and were distinctly defined against the blue of the
sky. Some wore scarlet gowns, bodices covered with metallic ornaments, embroidered chemisettes
and a profusion of glass trinkets. In the centre was one, taller by a head than her companions,
her face of a fine and delicate oval unknown amongst us, with magnetic, disquieting eyes which
suggested splendid vices; a black turban confined her black locks; a chemisette of dazzling
whiteness half opened on her breast; she wore, as a necklace, twisted five or six times about
her neck, a long chaplet of yellow flowers, clusters of which she held in her hands. The red
rays of the setting sun flashed with fantastic effect upon the scene: then night fell, and
in the flickering glare of the fires gleaming eyes, white teeth and mobile hands emerged from
the gloom.

Franz had expressed his wish to hear their music, but for a while all was silent. Suddenly
a strange, prolonged note vibrated through the air like a sigh from the supernatural world;
another followed; then after a pause a majestic but sombre melody was developed. The sounds
swelled like an immense choral, with incomparable purity and nobleness, fraught with memories
of ruins and tombs, of lost liberty and love. Another pause, and some strophes of unbridled
gayety burst forth; then again the principal phrase, detaching itself like a flower from its
stem, among myriads of winged notes, clusters of vaporous sounds, long spirals of transparent
fioritures. Still the violins grew bolder and more impetuous. Franz rose from his seat while
watching these men standing with their violins pressed against their breasts, as if they were
pouring their life's blood into them: he felt oppressed with anguish, when, by an ingenious
inversion, the gloomy theme was transformed into a graceful, poetic melody. The sounds passed
away rapidily like sparks, then were extinguished for a moment. A ferocious violence animated
the last measures, and the gypsies laid down their bows. But, divining a sympathetic listener,
they recommenced and played on till the night was far advanced. At length they ceased, and
Franz left the camp, carrying with him the revelation of a hitherto unknown art.

Three principal features (he tells us) determine the character of Tzigany music--its intervals,
not used in European harmony, its peculiar rhythms, and its Oriental fioritures or grace-notes.
In the minor scale the Tziganys take the fourth augmented, the sixth diminished and the seventh
augmented. It is by the frequent augmentation of the fourth that the harmony acquires a wonderfully
audacious and disquieting character. The educated musician at first thinks he hears false notes,
but the law of their harmonies is to have no law. Their abundance is incalculable, and the
solemn and intoxicating effects resulting from the rapid and beautiful transitions cannot be
imagined. As for the grace-notes, they give to the ear a pleasure like that which Moorish architecture
gives to the eye: the architects of the Alhambra painted on each of their bricks a graceful
little poem; the gypsies adorn each note with melodious designs and luxuriant embroideries.
But (we quote M. Franz throughout) who shall describe the impalpable flame of Tzigany sentiment,
the strange, subjugating charm of which is a vital animation almost adequate to life itself?
or the mysterious equilibrium which reigns in this undisciplined art between the sentiment
and the form? Mystery of genius, which bears in itself its inexplicable power of emotion, and
which science and taste in vain deny!

When Franz again heard Tzigany music it was under very different circumstances. A fete was
given by a Hungarian gentleman, of which this music was to be one of the attractions, the most
distinguished performers being Farkas Miska and Remenyi Ede. The arrival of the latter on the
morning after the first evening concert (the fete seems to have lasted some days) was announced
to M. Franz by a great noise, a banging of doors and windows and moving of furniture in the
room next his own. It at length ceased, and he was just getting to sleep again when some one
knocked at his door, and a pretty, fair-haired boy entered, who announced himself as Ptolemyi
Nandor, the fervent disciple of Remenyi Ede, who, he said, had just arrived and was about to
take possession of the adjoining apartment.

"Well, sir, is it to inform me of your name and your fervor that you have come to prevent me
from sleeping?"

"No," said the boy decidedly: "it is to ask you to dress yourself and go out for a walk."

To the astonished exclamation of M. Franz he replied that his master wished to practice, beginning
early, and that it annoyed him to have any one hear him.

"Go to the devil, you and your master!" naturally shouted our composer.

The boy became purple. "What!" he said, "send him to the devil?--him, the great violinist,
the successor of Czemak, of Bihary!"

"Is your master a gypsy?"

"No, but he is the only living violinist who possesses the authentic tradition of gypsy music."

"I love this music; therefore I will get up and go down to the garden."

"Oh no, sir: go into the fields. See!" and he opened the window, "every one has left the castle."
And actually the master of the house and his guests were all defiling through the garden-gate,
having had only three hours' sleep. M. Franz soon joined them, and heard from them the story
of Remenyi.

At the age of seventeen he had been attached to the person of Görgey during the Hungarian war.
Leaving his country with the emigration, he had shared the exile of Count Teleki, Sandor and
others; then passed some time at Guernsey, where he knew Victor Hugo. He had afterward performed
with brilliant success in London, Hamburg, etc., and his renown, after his return to Hungary,
went on increasing. He traveled about the country in every direction, astonishing nobles and
peasants, and playing with the same enthusiasm and poetry in barns as in palaces. On hearing
this our author slipped back to the garden, where he hid himself to listen to Remenyi, who,
to his great disgust, was playing a concerto of Bach's.

At breakfast, Remenyi appeared, a very commonplace-looking man, full of his own praises, and
always speaking himself in the third person. "Remenyi practiced well this morning," said he.

"Yes, a concerto of Bach's!" Franz.

Thereupon Remenyi asked for his violin, and they heard a marvelous specimen of real Tzigany
inspiration. Vanity disappeared--passion, nerve and sentiment took its place. He had all the
qualities demanded by science, together with those of imagination. It was the passionate inspiration
of genius. After his performance was over, he went gravely to the mantelpiece, stopped the
clock, and said to the master of the house, "Let this hand mark for ever the hour when Remenyi
played at your house."

M. Franz taking no pains to disguise; his admiration, Remenyi, gratified by it, invited him
to accompany him home. Wherever he went he received a perfect ovation. At one place he ordered
a pair of boots, which were sent home, paid for by the municipality. Art is a national glory
in Hungary, especially that of the gypsies, which has taken root in the very heart of the soil.

Remenyi's house at Rakos-Palota, near Pesth, is a long, rambling building, the courtyard of
which is given up to chickens, ducks and pigs. M. Franz says the poplars before the door look
like exclamation-marks, and he thinks they are planted there to serve as such. There are heaps
of rare and precious objects of every imaginable description--all gifts--but the ones which
the owner shows with most pride are his Hungarian sabre and a pair of boots which Liszt wore
when a child.

The question is often discussed in Hungary whether the national Hungarian music is the production
of Tzigany genius, or whether the gypsies are only the exponents of what properly belongs to
Hungary itself. The gypsies are proved to have been in Hungary as early as the thirteenth century,
and their musicians were celebrated in the sixteenth, some of their names still living in the
memory of the people. What has been preserved of genuine old Hungarian music (some melodies
of Timody Stephens) has no charm save its antiquity. These and other facts--but, above all,
the impression produced on him by the music itself--have convinced M. Franz that the gypsy
faculty is one not only of execution, but creation. Gypsy art proceeds from the sentiment,
the genius, of the Tzigany race. It is too strange, its elements are too wild, to be the exclusive
product of a thoughtful, wise, believing, practical and civilized people; but the Hungarians
have understood this art--they have surrounded it with love and respect. Gaining new life,
warmth and vigor from the welcoming applause of Hungary, it belongs to her by virtue of her
admiration and sympathetic tears.

     E.C.R.

THE "GIORNO DEI MORTI."

We all know that the second of November is All Souls' Day, and that it is the day dedicated
in the Roman calendar to the commemoration of all those who have departed "in the faith." And
few who have traveled on the continent of Europe are not aware that the day is observed in
all Southern countries with a degree of devotion which the greater part of the communities
in question are not in the habit of according to any other of the ordinances of the Church.
But to observe the manifestation of this devotion in its most striking forms, to seize all
the more picturesque developments and presentations of it, the "Giorno dei Morti" must be passed
at Rome.

It is a curious fact--one of the many of a similar order which illustrate the moral specialties
of the Latin populations--that hundreds of thousands of people of both sexes, who neither believe,
nor affect to believe, the doctrines of the orthodox Church, and who are in the habit of utterly
disregarding all her prescriptions and teaching, should nevertheless, as often as this sad
anniversary comes round, behave as if they were to all intents and purposes good Catholics.
It will be said, perhaps, that the feelings to which the special character of the commemoration
appeals are so common to all human hearts that the manifestation of them on any customary occasion
is in no degree to be wondered at. But I do not think that this will suffice to explain the
phenomenon--at least as it may be witnessed here in Italy. Other church ordinances might be
pointed out of which the same thing might be said, but which are not similarly observed. The
real cause of the phenomenon I take to be that this population is--as it was of old, and as
it always has been through all outward changes--pagan. I put it crudely for the sake of putting
it shortly, for this is not the place to trouble the readers of a few paragraphs of "Gossip"
with a dissertation in support of the assertion. The innate paganism of these people, born
of the beauty of the climate and of all external Nature, and of the sensuous proclivity to
live and breathe and have their being in the present and the visible which results therefrom,
first forcibly shaped their early Christianity into moulds which assimilated it to pagan observances
and modes of thought, and still remains ready to resume more and more of its old empire as
the authority of Church beliefs waxes feeble. The very striking and singular scene which was
to be witnessed in the great Roman cemetery outside the Porta di San Lorenzo on the second
day of November was to all intents and purposes pagan in its spirit and meaning. And it is
curious to observe in this, as in so many other instances, how the use of words supplies illustrations
of national peculiarities and specialties of character. The Church has dedicated the day in
question to the commemoration "omnium animarum"--of all souls. And we others, people of a Teutonic
race, have taken and used the phrase in its proper Christian sense: we talk of "All Souls'
Day." But with the peoples of the Latin stock all thought or question of "souls" is very speedily
lost sight of. With them the day is simply the "Giorno dei Morti"--the day of the dead. And
their observance of it is to all intents and purposes what it might have been two thousand
years ago.

The very ancient church of San Lorenzo, one of the four extramural basilicas, is situated some
ten minutes' walk outside the gate of the same name on the road to Tivoli; and around and behind
this church is the vast cemetery to which all the Roman dead are carried. It was first used
as an extramural cemetery at the time of the first French occupation, but has been very greatly
extended since that time. Clergy, nobles and monks were at first, and as long as Papal rule
lasted, exempted from the decree which forbade interment within the city. Now all must be taken
to San Lorenzo, and the greatly increased population of the city has already very thickly filled
an immense area. The first thing that strikes the visitor to this huge necropolis is the very
marked division between the poor and the rich quarters of this city of the dead. The fashionable
districts are quite as unmistakably divided and separated from those occupied by "the lower
classes" as they are in any city of the living; as is perhaps but right and natural in the
case of a population among which it is held that the condition and prospects of the dead may
be very materially influenced by a quantum sufficit of masses said for them, and where these
can be purchased in any quantity for cash. A very large parallelogram, for the most part surrounded
by cloisters, is first entered from the gates which open on the road. But this has been but
little used as yet. Beyond it, to the right, is the vast space occupied by the graves of the
multitude. Let the reader picture to himself a huge flat space extending as far as the eye
can see, thickly planted with little black wooden crosses, with inscriptions on them in white
letters. The sameness of all these fragile memorials produces a strange and depressing effect.
The undistinguished thousands of them make all the space seem black spotted with white. They
are ugly; and the poverty of these bits of painted stick, incapable of resisting the effects
of the weather, seems sordid in the extreme. In the graves of this part of the cemetery all
are in truth equal. To the left of the vast cloister-surrounded square which has been mentioned
the scene is a very different one. There, immediately behind the eastern end of the basilica,
the soil rises in a very steep bank to a height greater than that of the church. To the space
on the top of this bank a handsome and garden-decorated flight of step leads; and there the
"Upper Ten" take their dignified rest, and their dust is perfectly safe from all danger of
being mingled with that of less distinguished mortality. This higher ground is called the Pincetto--as
who should say the "Little Pincian"--a name adapted from that of the celebrated promenade of
the gay and fortunate in life, with a suggestion of meaning so satirical that it might seem
to have been given to the "fashionable" quarter of the dead city by the united sneers of all
the ghosts who haunt the undistinguished graves below. In this aristocratic quarter there is
of course no monotonous uniformity. The monuments, some of freestone and some of marble, are
of every conceivable form and degree of splendor, and death is made to look pretty and coquettish
by the introduction of numerous weeping willows and other such botanical helps to sentiment.
The great majority of the inscriptions are in Latin, for Pius IX., so long as his power lasted,
absolutely forbade the use of any other language; which was a measure of very questionable
judiciousness, seeing that a large crop of Latinity by no means creditable to Italian scholarship
has been the result. It would have been better to stick to good Della-Cruscan Italian, or to
have employed some English school-usher to come here as resident reviser of Roman Latinity.
Inelegant and even ungrammatical inscriptions, however, do not interfere with the general picturesqueness
of the spot, or with its singular adaptation to show to advantage the remarkable scene enacted
there on the last "Giorno dei Morti."

The cemetery had been visited by great numbers of persons, bringing chaplets and flowers, during
the day, both in the aristocratic and the plebeian quarters, but it was at night that the crowd
was greatest and the scene most striking. The night, as it so chanced, was a dark one, which
did not make the scene by any means less strange and weird-looking. The greater number of visitors,
especially in the poor quarter of the dead city, were women. Such is always the case, whether
it be that the female mind is more generally accessible to gentle thoughts of and yearnings
over their lost ones, or whether the explanation be simply that, as is especially the case
here, women, having less to occupy their leisure either in the way of business or amusement,
are more eager to seek any emotion or occasion which may serve to break the flat monotony of
their lives.

Certainly the scene in the cemetery on the evening of the "Day of the Dead" was one calculated
to make an impression not to be readily forgotten by any mere looker-on who witnessed it. Nor
was that presented by the road from the gate to the cemetery less remarkable in its way. It
is an ugly, disagreeable bit of road, between high walls, deep with mud in wet, and with dust
in dry weather, as was the case on the present occasion, and without the smallest vestige of
a pathway for foot-passengers; so that the motley crowd, with their lights and chaplets and
flowers, had to make their way amid a cloud of dust and among the carriages of those bound
for the "Pincetto" as best they might. But it was the general apparent mood and temper of mind
in which these pilgrims, bound on so sad an errand, seemed to be performing their self-imposed
task that was especially noteworthy. It might be supposed that a certain degree of reverential
self-concentration, or at least of quietude, would have been the characteristic of a crowd
bound on such an errand. There was not the smallest symptom of anything of the sort. It is
true that many visit the cemetery on the evening in question who have not recently lost any
relative or friend, going thither merely as performing an act of devotion or of amusement,
or, as is usually the case with all devotion in this country, of both combined. But the greater
number of the pilgrims is composed of those who have buried their dead within the preceding
year. Yet, as I have said, there was observable in the bearing of the crowd not only no reverential
feeling, but not even that amount of quietude which the most careless body of people of our
race would have deemed it but decent to assume on such an occasion. Laughter might have been
heard, though not perhaps very much. But the noise was astonishing--noise of incessant chatter
in tones which bespoke anything but the tone of mind which might have been expected. The truth
is, that he who expects to find in the people of this race the sentiment of awe or reverence
under any circumstances whatever does not know them. It is not in them. The capacity for it
is not in them. It is not a question of more or less education, or of this or that condition
of life. The higher and the lower classes, the clergy and the laity, are equally destitute
of the capacity for feeling or comprehending the sentiment which makes so large a part of the
lives of the people of a different race. To me the observation, far from being suggested by
what met my eye on the occasion in question, is the outcome of more than a quarter of a century's
experience of Italian ways and thoughts. But the exhibition of the peculiarity on that occasion
was very striking. Doubtless there was many a mother among that throng whose heart had been
wrung, whose very soul had been struck chill within her, by the loss of the child on whose
grave she was about to place the humble tribute of common flowers which she carried in her
hand. No doubt many a truly-sorrowing husband and yet more deeply-stricken wife were on the
way to visit the sod beneath which their hopes of happiness had been buried with their lost
ones. But whatever might have been in their hearts was not manifested by any token of reverential
feeling. There were tears, there were even sobs occasionally to be heard, but there was neither
reverence nor what we should deem decency of behavior.

Within the cemetery "distance lent enchantment to the view." As seen from the cloister which
surrounds the great square, as has been mentioned, the outlook over the "poor quarter" of the
vast burial-ground was very striking. Amid the wilderness of black crosses, which extends farther
than eye could see, numerous figures were flitting hither and thither, many of them with lights
in their hands. In the farther distance, where the figures were invisible, the lights could
still be seen mysteriously, as it seemed, moving over the closely-ranged graves like corpse-candles,
as the old superstition termed the phosphoric lights which may in certain states of the atmosphere
be seen in crowded graveyards. In the foreground, where the figures could be distinguished,
many were seen on their knees in the damp and malarious evening air at the graves of their
lost relatives. But not even in the bearing these could anything of real earnestness be traced.
They were performing a routine duty, of which no doubt their own consciences and their friends
and neighbors would have disapproved the omission; and that was all. Nevertheless, the picturesqueness
of the general effect was perfect, and it appealed to the imagination of a looker-on in a manner
which to many minds, more intent on sensational emotions than on discrimination of social characteristics,
would have caused the above remarks to appear sadly ill-timed and out of place.

The scene which was meantime being enacted on the Pincetto, where the wholly separated resting-places
of the "Upper Ten" protest so successfully against the leveling notion that in death all are
equal, I might have suggested many a mordant epigram to the cynically-minded visitor. I fear
that there is often something provocative of cynicism in sundry of the aspects of fashionable
devotion, but on such an occasion as the present it could hardly be otherwise. Rachels in Parisian
bonnets and sweeping silk skirts, muttering over their rosaries for their children on splendid
cushions borne in due state by attendant plush-clothed ministers, were contrasted in these
realms of the universal Leveler somewhat too strongly with the scene one had just left in the
(physically and socially) lower regions of the cemetery. Of course hearts that beat beneath
silken bodices may be wrung as bitterly as those that serge covers. I am speaking only of those
outward manifestations which contributed to complete the strangeness of the general spectacle
which I had come out to see. The better tending of the aristocratic portion of the cemetery,
and the greater space between the graves and their monuments, made it of course easier and
less disagreeable to pass among them and to note the bearing of individual mourners. If the
former scene had presented much that was indecorously formal, here all was decorously formal.
The routine, cut-and-dry nature of the duty being performed exercised in either case its property
of numbing natural feeling, or at least the appearance of it.

On the whole, the experience offered by a visit to the great Roman cemetery on the evening
of the "Giorno dei Morti" is a singular and curious one, as will be admitted, I think, by any
one who may be tempted by my example to go and see it.

     T.A.T.

MR. MILL'S MOTHER.

The publication of the late Mr. John Mill's Theism (writes a correspondent from England) has
again brought forward its author and his peculiarities as subjects of general conversation.
Not content with having talked these matters pretty well over some months ago, people are at
this moment discussing them with not a whit less of interest than if they were brand-new. How
came it that a man whose admiration of his wife was hardly distinguishable from idolatry should
never once mention his mother? Thousands have asked, and have asked in vain, who she was, and
whether she could have been so entirely insignificant as to deserve being passed over, without
even so much as an allusion to her, by her very philosophic son. These questions, and others
connected with them, I might answer at length. However, the few facts I shall here state will
perhaps be no less welcome than a long detail. The wife of James Mill, and mother of John Mill,
was a Miss Burrows, daughter of a Dr. Burrows who superintended an asylum for the insane at
Islington. She died in London about twenty years ago, having outlived her husband not quite
that period. Her children were nine in number, of whom four daughters are still living--two
in England and two in France. She was not what would be reckoned a conspicuously intellectual
woman, and yet she by no means deserved the heartless slight which was put on her memory by
her son. Indeed, such a slight could have its justification in little short of utter worthlessness;
and Mrs. James Mill was not only esteemed, but beloved, by a large circle of friends. On the
appearance of the Autobiography her daughters were, naturally enough, not a little indignant
at finding their mother as much ignored in it as if she had never existed, and were inclined,
at first, to supplement, publicly, their brother's account of himself by certain disclosures
not exactly of a character to exalt him in the estimation of the world. Suffice it to say here
that for many years before his death he had been estranged from his family; and this estrangement
was attributed, by those who had the best opportunities of judging, to the sinister influence
of his wife. This is all that I am disposed to communicate at present, but I should not be
at all surprised if we were to know, by and by, much more of the private life of John Mill
than we as yet know.

NOTES.

There has recently emerged into notice, from her hiding-place in one of the outskirts of London,
an ancient woman whose surroundings forcibly illustrate the persevering vitality of even the
insanest forms of religious belief. Joanna Southcott and her fanaticisms we are apt to associate
with Dr. Faustus, alchemy, and persons and things of that kind, as belonging to an age with
which we have no personal concern. Yet this is a mistake. The followers of the fatidical Joanna
may still be counted by thousands in Great Britain, particularly in its metropolis; and their
acknowledged head, in strict accordance with the fitness of things, is a woman. She is a very
old woman, too, her age symbolizing, perhaps, the longevity to which her crazy superstition
is destined. Elizabeth Peacock is the name of this relic of the past. For many years she itinerated
as a preacher, and at the great age of one hundred and three her health is still vigorous.
Modern priestesses, however, not unlike the prophets of antiquity, are subject to be scanted
of due honor, or, at all events, of what is more essential than this as contributing to keep
soul and body from parting company prematurely. The fact of her being in a state of destitution
was notified not long ago to the magistrate of the Lambeth police-court, and that unappreciative
functionary, while consenting to subscribe, with others, for her relief, openly expressed his
conviction that she would be best off in the workhouse. Altogether, the old creature is a bit
of a curiosity. She has had three husbands, and the last of them, whom she married in 1852,
killed himself only the other day, possibly from finding the twofold burden of domestic predication
and a helpmeet of five score too much for his nerves. If sane, the ungrateful fellow ought,
in all reason, to have had the grace to survive her; for when he undertook matrimony, as he
had nothing to turn his hand to, she instructed him herself in the art and mystery of cooperage.
At that time, so robust a specimen of anility was she, she could pitch an empty cask across
the street, and her credulity is as strong at this moment as her arm was of yore. We conclude,
from her story, that the proper stuff for making prophetesses of the baser sort has, even in
our day, only to be looked for to be discovered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our countrymen have lately learned to admire, in its Western transformation, the extremely
clever Rubáiyát of Omer Khayyám. And they are certainly much in the right in so doing. The
sterling merits of the Persian original are preserved with striking fidelity in the English
version of the poem, which, for the rest, has gone far to prove that the acceptableness among
us of Oriental poetry may depend very largely on the skill with which it is transplanted into
our language. The translator of the Rubáiyát is Mr. Edward FitzGerald, of Woodbridge in Suffolk.
Mr. FitzGerald's ancient family one may learn all about from Burke's Landed Gentry, and that
he was born in 1809, and that he married Lucy, daughter of Bernard Barton, the Quaker poet.
He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, where among his contemporaries and friends were
the present poet-laureate and Mr. Spedding, the editor of Bacon. The London Catalogue names
three works as by Mr. FitzGerald. These, as we find from inspection of the works themselves,
are as follows: 1. Euphranor, a Dialogue on Youth, 1851 (it reached a second edition, increased
by an Appendix, in 1855); 2. Polonius: A Collection of Wise Saws and Modern Instances, 1852;
3. Six Dramas of Calderon, 1853. These dramas are translations, in prose and verse, of The
Painter of his Own Dishonor, Keep your Own Secret, Gil Perez the Gallician, Three Judgments
at a Blow, The Mayor of Zalamea, and Beware of Smooth Water. In none of these volumes, however,
except the last is there any indication of its authorship but there Mr. FitzGerald's name is
given in full. The date of his metrical translation of Salámán and Absál, from the Persian,
we are not at this moment, able to specify. Add, as printed by him, but not published, two
other small volumes of translations--one, of the Agamemnon of Æschylus; and the other, of two
of Calderon's plays, Life is a Dream and The Wonderful Magician. Finally, we have to mention
an unprinted verse-translation, The Bird Parliament, from the Persian Mantiq-ut-tair by Attár.
Mr. Allibone knows nothing of Mr. FitzGerald, and he is similarly passed over in silence by
the compiler of Men of the Time. Everything that he has produced is uniformly distinguished
by marked ability; and, such being the case, his indifference to fame, in this age of ambition
for literary celebrity, is a phenomenon which deserves to be emphasized.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

The French Humorists from the Twelfth to the Nineteenth Century.
  By Walter Besant, M.A.
  Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Had Mr. Besant given us definitions of "humor" and "humorist," we might possibly not have been
satisfied with them, but they would at least have enabled us to understand what sense he attaches
to the words, and what principle determined him in selecting the writers embraced in his category.
In the first page of his book he speaks of humor as "a branch" of satire; in the second he
identifies French satire as the "esprit gaulois;" in the third he tells us that "the French
type for satire and humor has preserved one uniform character from generation to generation;"
and in his last page he claims superiority for the French over the English humorists, on the
ground that "Rabelais has a finer wit than Swift," that "we have no political satire so good
as the Satyre Mènipée," "no English humor comparable for a moment with that of the fabliaux,"
"no letter-writer like Voiture," "no teller of tales like La Fontaine," and "no chansonnier
like Béranger." Now, it is evident that this is a comparison not of French and English humorists,
but of certain classes of writers in the two languages in reference to their manifestation
of humor. We have no fabulist like La Fontaine, no song-writer equal to Béranger; but then
we do not think of citing our fables and songs as the highest examples of English humor. It
would be easy to array a list of names as a set-off against that of Mr. Besant. But this is
needless. Humor, in the sense in which the word is commonly understood, may almost be said
to be a distinctive quality of English literature, which is pervaded by it in a far greater
degree than that of any other people. It is a leading trait in all the great English novelists,
from Fielding to Thackeray and George Eliot, without excepting Richardson, in whom it is least
conspicuous; it is the chief attribute of our finest essayists, from Addison to Charles Lamb;
it is harmoniously blended with the fresh and simple pathos of Chaucer and with the passionate
moodiness of Carlyle: it holds equal sway with the tragic element in the world created by Shakespeare.
When Mr. Besant says that "there is no English humor comparable for a moment with that of the
fabliaux," we are forced to suppose either that he uses the word "humor" in some unexplained
and inexplicable sense, or that he leaves out of the account what would generally be considered
the greatest of humorous productions. The puzzle increases when we find him omitting all mention
of Le Sage, while excusing himself for the omission, from lack of space, of Rousseau! A list
of humorous works which should exclude Gil Blas to make room for Émile or Le Contrat Social,
might itself, one would think, act as a provocative on the esprit gaulois.

These mysteries are not the only ones in Mr. Besant's volume to which we have to confess our
inability to discover a key. In closing his remarks on Montaigne he touches with undissembled
irony the question whether he was a Christian, and, after contrasting the tone and sentiments
of the Essais with those of the Gospels, bids us "remember that we are not in the nineteenth
century, but in the sixteenth, that Montaigne died in the act of adoration, and cease to ask
whether the man was a Christian;" adding, "Christian? There was no better Christian than Montaigne
in all his century." It appears, therefore, that the sixteenth century, instead of being, as
we had supposed, one in which the Reformation had brought with it a revival of religious earnestness
and a reaction against religious formalism, and in which on the battle-field, in the dungeon
and at the stake, as well as through voluntary exile and the relinquishment of property, thousands
in every country testified to the fervor and sincerity of their religious convictions, was
in truth, like the eighteenth century, one in which a prevailing skepticism or indifference
paid to dead but not yet dethroned creeds its light homage of affected "adoration." Mr. Besant
informs us that "to the men of culture the rival parties were but two political sides." How
many men of culture could be cited in support of this assertion? We grant him Montaigne, but
it was precisely because the case of Montaigne was an exceptional one in the age of Erasmus
and More, of Calvin and Coligny, that the question in regard to him has not seemed altogether idle.

It appears from another passage that Mr. Besant has an easy method of arriving at a judgment
in regard to the character or general aspect of an historical epoch. From the details in regard
to food, dress and furniture which he finds in the works of Eustache Deschamps, a satirical
poet of the fourteenth century, he infers that the bourgeois life of that period was "comfortable,
abundant and cheery." "History," he says, "paints this as the worst and most disastrous period
that Europe had ever seen; yet here, in the most real poet of the century, we see how life,
as a whole, went on in the usual way. For when a great pestilence strikes a country, it slays
its thousands and goes away. Time quickly heals the wounds of grief, and the world goes on
as before. Then come the English to sack and destroy. Nature heals their wounds, too, by the
recurring seasons, and the world goes on as before. I am inclined to think that life, on the
whole, was generally pleasant for a well-to-do Frenchman of the period." Mr. Besant, it will
be seen, concedes that evils are evils while they last, that war and pestilence are not pleasant
things to the victims, and that the comfortable and cheery life of the fourteenth century suffered
some interruptions from these causes. But then it was still, he insists, an agreeable life
"on the whole," since "the recurring seasons" healed the wounds and the grief, and left the
survivors to enjoy existence "in the usual way." This, it must be owned, is a very comfortable
and cheery philosophy--for those who preach it. We do not see that they need ever complain
of "bad times," since they can always be sure that the recurring seasons will bring alleviation
to the survivors. It may also be admitted that, as there is no age in which the recurring seasons
do not bring relief, so there has been none when war and pestilence and similar evils did not
interrupt the usual course of life. There is, however, this difference, that in some ages these
evils last longer than in others, the wounds are deeper, the victims more numerous, the intermissions
less frequent, the relief tardier, the survivors fewer. Such an age in France was the period
of the English invasions, comprising a great portion of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
That life was then, "on the whole," anything but comfortable and cheery is attested by records
and evidence of all kinds, against which the mention of weddings and christenings, of gold-embroidered
mantles and robes of silk, in the pages of a court poet will, we apprehend, count for very
little, especially as the sufferers do not appear to have solaced themselves with reflections
on the sure effects of the recurring seasons. Deschamps himself was unable, it seems, to get
his pension paid; and if he died, as Mr. Besant tells us, about 1409, the chances, we think,
are that however he may have denounced luxury as the "crying evil" of his time, his death was
the result of starvation.

Mr. Besant, it will be perceived, is one of those writers who indulge in haphazard assertions
without troubling their heads with the facts that conflict with them. A glaring instance of
his tendency to exaggeration and wild speculation will be found in his estimate of Rabelais,
whom he first vaunts as "a great moral teacher," "a teacher the like of whom Europe had not
yet seen," and then denounces as having "destroyed effectually, perhaps for centuries yet to
come, earnestness in France," declaring that "no writer who ever lived has inflicted such lasting
injury on his country," and that "it would have been better for France if his book, tied to
a millstone, had been hurled into the sea." These opinions are contradictory of each other,
since it is impossible that a writer who so perverted men's minds should also have been, in
any proper sense of the term, a great moral teacher; they are inconsistent with Mr. Besant's
account of the "unbroken lines of writers," of whom Rabelais was one, but not the first, all
having the same characteristics, all "irreverent," having "no strong convictions," "like children
for mockery, mischief and lightness of heart;" and finally, they are so improbable in themselves,
and so unsusceptible of proof, that, uttered as they are with the solemnity of communications
from an unseen world, they produce much the same impression on us as the disclosures with which
Mr. Robert Dale Owen is favored by his "materialized" visitants.

We might cite other examples to prove that Mr. Besant is not a safe guide either in his general
speculations or in his critical judgments. He is an agreeable narrator, showing a close familiarity
with the topics he handles, and an enthusiasm which, if it sometimes degenerates into mere
fume, adds on the whole to the liveliness of his writing. His translations in verse are remarkable
for their ease and finish. The book may be read with pleasure, but not, we fear, with equal
profit. The chapters that deal with the least known works and writers are the most satisfactory.
On Montaigne and Molière Mr. Besant has nothing to say which is likely to incite the reader
to a fresh study of their works, which ought to be the effect of every fresh discourse on a
great author.

The special charm of this book lies in the fact that it is not a book--that there was no thought
in the writer's mind of printer's ink, no vision of publicity or fame, no solicitude to propitiate
critics or win the sympathy of the "gentle reader." Or one might say it was a book of the primitive
kind, written on the bark of trees by some shy dryad, unconcious translator into speech of
the rustlings and whisperings of the woodland. It is, as the editor observes, an "effortless
narrative," with "no attempt at fine or sensational writing, ... at that modern artifice which
they call word-painting," but recording with "vivid exactness" what was seen and felt by the
writer and her companions on a journey through regions then little frequented by tourists and
unsmirched by the eloquence of guide-books. That the travelers were William and Dorothy Wordsworth
and (for a part of the way) S.T. Coleridge, that scenes and incidents here first sketched in
the sister's sober prose were afterward memorialized and moralized in the brother's verse,
and that many of the spots described were about to become famous with and through Scott--a
meeting with whom formed the fitting close to the tour,--these are circumstances that of course
invest the journal with a deeper interest and have called wider attention to its unobtrusive
beauty. But its chief attractiveness lies in the Doric simplicity not only of the style but
of the matter. On one occasion, having turned aside to visit the duke of Hamilton's picture-gallery,
they were told by the porter, after he had scanned them over, that they ought not to have come
to the front door, and were directed to an obscure entrance at the corner of the house, where
they seated themselves humbly on a bench while waiting for admittance, which was finally refused.
They were mortified, but had a deeper pang in the grounds around Bothwell Castle, for here
they were "hurt to see that flower-borders had taken place of the natural overgrowings of the
ruins, the scattered stones and wild plants." Sometimes at an inn they were made to perceive
how little consideration they were entitled to by being lodged in inferior rooms while better
ones were vacant; but to compensate for this, in the wilder parts of the country they were
greeted with the hospitality which their mere condition as strangers was still sufficient to
call forth. The descriptions given of the people have at least an equal interest with those
of the scenery. We have a succession of pictures in which, as Principal Shairp remarks, "man
is seen against a great background of Nature and solitude." The book is one not to be read
and laid away, but to be kept near at hand, and made a frequent companion and familiar friend.

Books Received.

Sophisms of Protection.
  By the late M. Frédéric Bastiat.
  Translated from the Paris edition of 1863,
  with Preface by Horace White.
  New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Select Notes on the International Sabbath School Lessons for 1875.
  By a New England Pastor.
  Boston: Henry Hoyt.

Notes in England and Italy.
  By Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne.
  Illustrated Edition.
  New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

William Prince of Orange; or, The King and his Hostage.
  By Rev. T.M. Merriman, A.M.
  Boston: Henry Hoyt.

Report of the Commissioner of Education for the year 1873.
  Washington: Government Printing Office.

Among the Trees.
  By William Cullen Bryant.
  Illustrated.
  New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Early English History.
  By John P. Yeatman.
  London: Longmans, Green & Co.

Poems.
  By Stuart Sterne.
  (Published for the Author.)
  New York: F.B. Patterson.

The Frozen Deep.
  By Wilkie Collins.
  Boston: William F. Gill & Co.

A Lecture on the Protestant Faith.
  By Dwight H. Olmstead.
  New York.

FOOTNOTES.

[1] Travel and Art-Study in Italy, by C.E. NORTON.

[2] December, 1874, art. "Physical Effects of Emotion on the Heart."

[3] I have several times performed this experiment, and by a method, the explanation of which
would require a separate article, have proved that the vaso-motor centre, as well as the respiratory
centre, is situated in the medulla oblongata, and that paralysis of neither respiration nor
of the vaso-motor nerves follows the operation.