Two remarks have been repeated, till many receive them as undeniable axioms; and we notice
them only for that reason. One is, that the Author of Waverley's earliest productions are decidedly
his best--the other, that he is never so great as when he treads on Scottish ground. In neither
assertion is there much truth. Are Ivanhoe, Peveril of the Peak, Quentin Durward, Nigel, and
Kenilworth, inferior to St. Ronan's Well, the Monastery, and the Abbot? May not the first mentioned
five be ranked among the best of his novels? and must they unquestionably yield to Rob Roy
or the Antiquary? or does one of our latest favourites, the Maid of Perth, betray much deficiency
of that vigour which characterized the first-born Waverley! Few will answer in the affirmative.--Edinburgh
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    [13] In the fifteenth century.

SWAINE.

An Unlucky Plank.--Sometime since a very large tree was cut down near Goulson, in the parish
of Hartland, into which it was reported and believed by the peasantry of the neighbourhood,
that "Major Docton" was conjured. The tree was purchased by a builder in Bideford, and cut
into planks, one of which was washed away by the tide, and drifted to Appledore, where it was
picked up by some boatmen, and sold to the proprietor of the new market, then erecting. The
right owner, however, having heard where the plank was, sent to demand it, but in vain. The
bearer of the message strongly urged the giving of it up, declaring that as the old major had
been conjured into it, it would certainly throw the market down. The words were prophetic,
for, while they were yet disputing on the subject, that part of the market-house containing
the plank, fell with a sudden crash to the ground. The giving way of the wall is easily accounted
for, by less abtruse rules than those of magic; but it so astonished the builder, that he was
as anxious to restore the conjured plank, as he was just before to retain it.

W.G.C.

Manufacture of Leather in Canada.--It is stated in a recent number of the Montreal Current,
that this important branch of manufacture has wonderfully increased of late. A few years back,
the colony was almost entirely dependent on New York, for supplies of leather. It is now certain
that it can be manufactured in Canada, and brought to market at as low a price as it can be
imported. Canada possesses immense quantities of hemlock in her woods, and the tanning business
having been introduced so generally, these hemlock forests will probably prove to be mines
of gold. Some opinion of the extent to which tanning is carried on in Montreal and its vicinity,
may be found in the following statement of twelve tanneries connected with one house in that
city:--Cost of tannery, 15,600l.; number of hides manufactured yearly, 40,500; average weight
30 lbs.; weight of sole-leather produced, 1,215,000 lbs.; average cost of manufacturing, 4d.
per lb.; average value per lb., 1s. 3d.; total value, 103,437l 10s. Besides the twelve tanneries
above mentioned, there are many others in the city and other places, at which the cost of manufacturing
is about the same as those enumerated. It is added, "This gives a sum of about 70,000l. distributed
among the working classes of the district of Montreal, which a few years ago was expended in
the United States."

W.G.C.

Family Slaughter.--In Westmoreland it is usual at Christmas for the farmers to kill each a
sheep for their own use, on which occasion, when the butcher inquires if they want any meat
against Christmas, the usual reply is, "Nay, I think not, I think o' killing mysell." A butcher
called on a farmer of his acquaintance in the usual manner, saying, "Will ye want a bit o'
meat, or ye'll kill yersell, this Christmas?" "I kna not," replied the farmer, "whether I'se
kill mysell, or tak' a side o' me feyther."

