We have already seen that the suffix "in" expresses the female sex whenever it may be desirable
to give it expression. So "id" denotes the offspring, "il" the tool or instrument, "isto" the
profession, "ul" the person or individual, "ec" the quality (abstract), "ajx" the concrete
thing, product, or result, "eg" means large, and "et" small, etc. Now, let us see how this
works out in practice. Bovo is bull; bovino, cow; bovido, calf; bovajxo, beef; bovidino, female
calf. And you may say bovego, boveto, bovinego, bovineto, bovidego, bovideto, bovidinego, and
bovidineto if you wish to add the idea of size or smallness to the original or to the derived word.

Again: "Lern" is the root for learning. We first get lerni, to learn; lerna, learned; lerne,
learnedly; learno, learning. Next, using a few of the particles we can make: lernebla, capable
of being learned; lernema, inclined to learn (studious); lerninda, worth learning; lernilo,
a text book (a tool); lernisto (a professional learner), a student; lernulo, a learned person,
a scholar; lerneco, learning in the abstract; lernajxo, the matter to be learned (concrete),
etc. And once more note that what you can do with one root you can do with every root in the
vocabulary. So that the originally available number of words is multiplied ten and hundred
fold. Which simply means a tremendous saving of labor in learning words and forms and yet secures
a range of expression and a degree of precision undreamed of in any other language.

(8) On the possible rivals, past, present, or future, to Esperanto see closing remarks.

(9) To complete what I said on the verb during the hearing I give here the entire paradigm
of the verb in Esperanto.

Paroli, to speak; parolanta, speaking; parolata, spoken.

Present, I speak, etc.: Mi parolas, vi parolas, li parolas, sxi parolas, ni parolas, vi parolas,
ili parolas, oni (one) parolas, gxi (it) parolas.

There a thus only one ending "as" for the present of every verb and the same for every person.

In the past the ending is "is": mi parolis, I spoke, etc.

In the future "os" mi parolos, I shall speak, etc. In the conditional "us": mi parolus, I should
speak, etc. In the subjunctive "u": ke mi parolu, that I may or might speak, the tense being
sufficiently indicated by the antecedent verb.

For the imperative we use the subjunctive without conjunction and generally without subject.

The participle has a most ingenious flexbility, it having three forms, anta, inta, onta for
the active, and ata, ita, ota for the passive; parolanta, speaking now; parolinta, having spoken;
parolonta, about to be speaking; parolata, being spoken now; parolita, spoken formerly; parolota,
to be spoken later.

Only practice can reveal the wonderful usefulness of this scheme, again, of course, applicable
to all verbs.

One interesting sequel is, that as every word can be turned into a noun--if sense demands it--by
simply changing the ending into o, we therefore get: parolanto, the present speaker; parolinto,
the past speaker; parolonto, the future speaker.

Let no one say that such richness and possibility of precision is of no importance; many a
life's jeopardy has turned on less. Nor can it be said that this unlimited capacity of expression
makes the mechanism of the language cumbersome, for the whole scheme of Esperanto can be thoroughly
mastered in a few hours.

(10) In England Esperanto has been on the school rates for several years; any technical or
continuation school can apply to the board of education for permission to put Esperanto on
its program. In 1909 it was already thus taught in 33 centers.

The London Chamber of Commerce holds examinations in Esperanto every year, and has done so
since 1907. The United Kingdom Association of Teachers prepares for the certificate of proficiency
in Esperanto.

In the town of Lille, France, Esperanto has been taught in the high schools for at least nine
years; about 1,500 pupils benefiting yearly from this. The same is true of Rio de Janeiro,
in Brasil.

In conclusion, I wish to register my opinion as an unbiased student of the whole movement for
the adoption of an international language that Esperanto has nothing to fear from any rival
scheme--present, past, or future.

Of upward of 150 different projects that have seen the light since the seventeenth century,
not one was born with a life worth saving but Esperanto; not one has ever attained one-hundredth
part the power and vogue and vitality that Esperanto has achieved.

One only of all these schemes has ever come prominently before the public before Esperanto
came into the field, Volapük, and this failed of its own defects.

One only among some 20 or 30 imitations of Esperanto, namely, Ido, succeeded for a time in
creating a diversion in the Esperanto camp. If Volapük died of its defects, it is permissible
to say that Ido never lived on account of its numerous authors' everlasting chase after theoretical
perfection, each one having a different opinion--and changing the same with every wind--as
to what constitutes perfection in every one of a thousand features of a human language. Accordingly,
the Idoists have altered their mock Esperanto a hundred times in six years, so that no one
has been able to keep track of the changes, and the adherents of the secession themselves have
never been able to learn, speak, and use the language.

During these six years Esperanto has succeeded in establishing itself and getting a firm hold
in every civilized country from China to Peru and from Greenland to Zanzibar, because it is
a live and growing language, perfect in so far that it is endowed from the start with all the
power of evolution without the need of any internal changes in its wonderfully simple structure.

Here are a few quotations from great thinkers as to the need for an auxiliary language:

   The diversity of languages is fatal for genius and progress. If
   there were a universal language, we should save a third of life.
   (Leibnitz.)

   The interrelationships of the peoples are so great that they most
   certainly need a universal language. (Montesquieu.)

   One of the greatest torments of life is the diversity of language.
   (Voltaire.)

   What an immeasurable profit it would be for the human race if we were
   able to intercommunicate by means of one language. (Volney.)

   It seems to me quite possible--probable even--than an artificial
   language to be universally used will be greed upon. (Herbert
   Spencer.)

   The learning of many languages fills the memory with words instead of
   facts and thoughts, and this is a vessel which, with every person,
   can only contain certain limited amount of records. Therefore the
   learning of many languages is injudicious, inasmuch as it arouses
   the belief in the possession of dexterity, and, as a matter of
   fact, it lends a kind of delusive importance to social intercourse.
   It is also injurious in that it opposes the acquirement of solid
   knowledge and the intention to win the respect of men in an honest
   way. Finally, it is the ax which is laid at the root of a delicate
   sense of language in our mother tongue, which thereby is incurably
   injured and destroyed. The two nations which have produced the
   greatest stylists, the Greeks and the French, learned no foreign
   languages; but as human intercourse grows more cosmopolitan, and
   as, for instance, a good merchant in London must now be able to
   read and write eight languages, the learning of many tongues has
   certainly become a necessary evil; but which, when finally carried
   to an extreme, will compel mankind to find a remedy, and in some far
   off future there will be a new language used at first as a language
   of commerce, then as a language of intellectual intercourse, then
   for all, as surely as some time or other there will be aviation. Why
   else should philology have studied the laws of language for a whole
   century and have estimated the necessary, the valuable, and the
   successful portion of each separate language? (Nietsche.)

In this connection it may be well to repeat once more that Esperanto is only an "auxiliary"
language. Nobody dreams of it being a "universal language."

                         EXAMPLES OF ESPERANTO.

Simpla, fleksebla, belsona, vere internacia en siaj elementoj[1], la lingvo Esperanto prezentas
al la mondo civilizita la sole veran solvon[2] de lingvo internacia: cxar[3], tre facila por
homoj nemulte instruitaj, Esperanto estas komprenata sen peno de la personoj bone edukitaj.
Mil faktoj atestas la meriton praktikan de la nomita lingvo.

   [1] "j" has the sound of English "y", as in boy, and is the sign for
   the plural of nouns and adjectives.

   [2] "n" is the mark of the accusative or object of the verb.

   [3] The diacritic sign ^ occurs on c, g, h, j, s and has the force
   of an h after the first and the last--ch, sh. gx is pronounced
   like English g in George, which g without sign has the value of g in
   good. jx is pronounced like s in pleasure, while j simple has the
   sound of y in yes, esp. jes. hx occurs rarely and is doomed to
   disappear in favor of k.

Kaj se vi pregxas, vi ne devas esti kiel la hipokrituloj, kiuj volonte staras kaj pregxas en
la lernejoj, kaj apud la anguloj de la stratetoj; por ke ili estu vidataj de la homoj. Vere,
mi diras al vi: Ili ricevis sian pagon. Sed se vi pregxas, iru en la cxambreton kaj fermu la
pordon, kaj pregxu al via patro en la kasxito, kaj via patro, kiu vidas en la kasxiton, rekompencos
gxin al vi publike. Kaj se vi pregxas, vi ne devas multe babili, kiel la idolistoj, cxar ili
opinias ke gxi estos akceptata, se ili faras multe da paroloj. Tial vi ne devas simili al ili.
Via patro scias, kion vi bezonas, antaux ol vi petas lin. Tial vi devas pregxi tiamaniere.
Patro nia en la cxielo. Via nomo estu sanktigata. Via regno venu. Via volo farigxu sur la tero,
kiel en la cxielo. Nian panon cxiutagan donu al ni hodiaux. Kaj pardonu al ni niajn kulpojn,
kiel ni pardonas niajn kulpulojn. Kaj ne konduku nin en tenton, sed savu nin de la malbono.
Cxar via estas la regno, kaj la forto, kaj la gloro en eterneco. Amen. (La Evangelio Sankta
Mateo VI, 5-16.)