"This," said the Maestro, as he calmly introduced fresh cartridges into the chambers of his
smoking weapon, "is what might be called an application of western solutions to eastern difficulties."

Again he brought his revolver down, but he raised it without shooting and replaced it in its
holster. From beneath the caribao's rotund belly, below the surface, an indistinct form shot
out; cleaving the water like a polliwog it glided for the bank, and then a black, round head
emerged at the feet of the Maestro.

"All right, bub; we'll go to school now," said the latter, nodding to the dripping figure as
it rose before him.

He lifted the sullen brownie and straddled him forward of the saddle, then proceeded to mount
himself, when the Capture began to display marked agitation. He squirmed and twisted, turned
his head back and up, and finally a grunt escaped him.

"El volador."

"The kite, to be sure; we mustn't forget the kite," acquiesced the Maestro graciously. He pulled
up the anchoring stick and laboriously, beneath the hostilely critical eye of the Capture,
he hauled in the line till the screeching, resisting flying-machine was brought to earth. Then
he vaulted into the saddle.

The double weight was a little too much for the pony; so it was at a dignified walk that the
Maestro, his naked, dripping, muddy and still defiant prisoner a-straddle in front of him,
the captured kite passed over his left arm like a knightly shield, made his triumphant entry
into the pueblo.

II--Heroism and Reverses

When Maestro Pablo rode down Rizal-y-Washington Street to the schoolhouse with his oozing,
dripping prize between his arms, the kite, like a knightly escutcheon against his left side,
he found that in spite of his efforts at preserving a modest, self-deprecatory bearing, his
spine would stiffen and his nose point upward in the unconscious manifestations of an internal
feeling that there was in his attitude something picturesquely heroic. Not since walking down
the California campus one morning after the big game won three minutes before blowing of the
final whistle, by his fifty-yard run-in of a punt, had he been in that posture--at once pleasant
and difficult--in which one's vital concern is to wear an humility sufficiently convincing
to obtain from friends forgiveness for the crime of being great.

A series of incidents immediately following, however, made the thing quite easy.

Upon bringing the new recruit into the schoolhouse, to the perfidiously expressed delight of
the already incorporated, the Maestro called his native assistant to obtain the information
necessary to a full matriculation. At the first question the inquisition came to a dead-lock.
The boy did not know his name.

"In Spanish times," the Assistant suggested modestly, "we called them "de los Reyes" when the
father was of the army, and "de la Cruz" when the father was of the church; but now, we can
never know what it is."

The Maestro dashed to a solution. "All right," he said cheerily. "I caught him; guess I can
give him a name. Call him--Isidro de los Maestros."

And thus it was that the urchin went down on the school records, and on the records of life
afterward.

Now, well pleased with himself, the Maestro, as is the wont of men in such state, sought for
further enjoyment.

"Ask him," he said teasingly, pointing with his chin at the newly-baptized but still unregenerate
little savage, "why he came out of the ditch."

"He says he was afraid that you would steal the kite," answered the Assistant, after some linguistic
sparring.

"Eh?" ejaculated the surprised Maestro.

And in his mind there framed a picture of himself riding along the road with a string between
his fingers; and, following in the upper layers of air, a buzzing kite; and, down in the dust
of the highway, an urchin trudging wistfully after the kite, drawn on irresistibly, in spite
of his better judgment, on and on, horrified but fascinated, up to the yawning school-door.

It would have been the better way. "I ought to go and soak my head," murmured the Maestro pensively.

This was check number one, but others came in quick succession.

For the morning after this incident the Maestro did not find Isidro among the weird, wild crowd
gathered into the annex (a transformed sugar storehouse) by the last raid of the Municipal Police.

Neither was Isidro there the next day, nor the next. And it was not till a week had passed
that the Maestro discovered, with an inward blush of shame, that his much-longed-for pupil
was living in the little hut behind his own house. There would have been nothing shameful in
the overlooking--there were seventeen other persons sharing the same abode--were it not that
the nipa front of this human hive had been blown away by the last baguio, leaving an unobstructed
view of the interior, if it might be called such. As it was, the Municipal Police was mobilized
at the urgent behest of the Maestro. Its "cabo," flanked by two privates armed with old German
needle-guns, besieged the home, and after an interesting game of hide-and-go-seek, Isidro was
finally caught by one arm and one ear, and ceremoniously marched to school. And there the Maestro
asked him why he had not been attending.

"No hay pantalones"--there are no pants--Isidro answered, dropping his eyes modestly to the ground.

This was check number two, and unmistakably so, for was it not a fact that a civil commission,
overzealous in its civilizing ardor, had passed a law commanding that every one should wear,
when in public, "at least one garment, preferably trousers?"

Following this, and an unsuccessful plea upon the town tailor who was on a three weeks' vacation
on account of the death of a fourth cousin, the Maestro shut himself up a whole day with Isidro
in his little nipa house; and behind the closely-shut shutters engaged in some mysterious toil.
When they emerged again the next morning, Isidro wended his way to the school at the end of
the Maestro's arm, trousered!

The trousers, it must be said, had a certain cachet of distinction. They were made of calico-print,
with a design of little black skulls sprinkled over a yellow background. Some parts hung flat
and limp as if upon a scarecrow; others pulsed, like a fire-hose in action, with the pressure
of flesh compressed beneath, while at other points they bulged pneumatically in little foot-balls.
The right leg dropped to the ankle; the left stopped discouraged, a few inches below the knee.
The seams looked like the putty mountain chains of the geography class. As the Maestro strode
along he threw rapid glances at his handiwork, and it was plain that the emotions that moved
him were somewhat mixed in character. His face showed traces of a puzzled diffidence, as that
of a man who has come in sack-coat to a full-dress function; but after all it was satisfaction
that predominated, for after this heroic effort he had decided that Victory had at last perched
upon his banners.

And it really looked so for a time. Isidro stayed at school at least during that first day
of his trousered life. For when the Maestro, later in the forenoon paid a visit to the annex,
he found the Assistant in charge standing disconcerted before the urchin who, with eyes indignant
and hair perpendicular upon the top of his head, was evidently holding to his side of the argument
with his customary energy.

Isidro was trouserless. Sitting rigid upon his bench, holding on with both hands as if in fear
of being removed, he dangled naked legs to the sight of who might look.

"Que barbaridad!" murmured the Assistant in limp dejection.

But Isidro threw at him a look of black hatred. This became a tense, silent plea for justice
as it moved up for a moment to the Maestro's face, and then it settled back upon its first
object in frigid accusation.

"Where are your trousers, Isidro?" asked the Maestro.

Isidro relaxed his convulsive grasp of the bench with one hand, canted himself slightly to
one side just long enough to give an instantaneous view of the trousers, neatly folded and
spread between what he was sitting with and what he was sitting on, then swung back with the
suddenness of a kodak-shutter, seized his seat with new determination, and looked eloquent
justification at the Maestro.

"Why will you not wear them?" asked the latter.

"He says he will not get them dirty," said the Assistant, interpreting the answer.

"Tell him when they are dirty he can go down to the river and wash them," said the Maestro.

Isidro pondered over the suggestion for two silent minutes. The prospect of a day spent splashing
in the lukewarm waters of the Ilog he finally put down as not at all detestable, and getting
up to his feet:

"I will put them on," he said gravely.

Which he did on the moment, with an absence of hesitation as to which was front and which was
back, very flattering to the Maestro.

That Isidro persevered during the next week, the Maestro also came to know. For now regularly
every evening as he smoked and lounged upon his long, cane chair, trying to persuade his tired
body against all laws of physics to give up a little of its heat to a circumambient atmosphere
of temperature equally enthusiastic; as he watched among the rafters of the roof the snakes
swallowing the rats, the rats devouring the lizards, the lizards snapping up the spiders, the
spiders snaring the flies in eloquent representation of the life struggle, his studied passiveness
would be broken by strange sounds from the dilapidated hut at the back of his house. A voice,
imitative of that of the Third Assistant who taught the annex, hurled forth questions, which
were immediately answered by another voice, curiously like that of Isidro.

Fiercely: "Du yu ssee dde hhett?"

Breathlessly: "Yiss I ssee dde hhett."

Ferociously: "Show me dde hhett."

Eagerly: "Here are dde hhett."

Thunderously: "Gif me dde hhett."

Exultantly: "I gif yu dde hhett."

Then the Maestro would step to the window and look into the hut from which came this Socratic
dialogue. And on this wall-less platform which looked much like a primitive stage, a singular
action was unrolling itself in the smoky glimmer of a two-cent lamp. The Third Assistant was
not there at all; but Isidro was the Third Assistant. And the pupil was not Isidro, but the
witless old man who was one of the many sharers of the abode. In the voice of the Third Assistant,
Isidro was hurling out the tremendous questions; and, as the old gentleman, who represented
Isidro, opened his mouth only to drule betel-juice, it was Isidro who, in Isidro's voice, answered
the questions. In his rôle as Third Assistant he stood with legs akimbo before the pupil, a
bamboo twig in his hand; as Isidro the pupil, he plumped down quickly upon the bench before
responding. The sole function of the senile old man seemed that of representing the pupil while
the question was being asked, and receiving, in that capacity, a sharp cut across the nose
from Isidro-the-Third-Assistant's switch, at which he chuckled to himself in silent glee and
druled ad libitum.

For several nights this performance went on with gradual increase of vocabulary in teacher
and pupil. But when it had reached the "Do you see the apple-tree?" stage, it ceased to advance,
marked time for a while, and then slowly but steadily began sliding back into primitive beginnings.
This engendered in the Maestro a suspicion which became certainty when Isidro entered the schoolhouse
one morning just before recess, between two policemen at port arms. A rapid scrutiny of the
roll-book showed that he had been absent a whole week.

"I was at the river cleaning my trousers," answered Isidro when put face to face with this
curious fact.

The Maestro suggested that the precious pantaloons which, by the way, had been mysteriously
embellished by a red stripe down the right leg and a green stripe down the left leg, could
be cleaned in less than a week, and that Saturday and Sunday were days specially set aside
in the Catechismo of the Americanos for such little family duties.

Isidro understood, and the nightly rehearsals soon reached the stage of:

"How menny hhetts hev yu?"

"I hev ten hhetts."

Then came another arrest of development and another decline, at the end of which Isidro again
making his appearance flanked by two German needle-guns, caused a blush of remorse to suffuse
the Maestro by explaining with frigid gravity that his mother had given birth to a little pickaninny-brother
and that, of course, he had had to help.

But significant events in the family did not stop there. After birth, death stepped in for
its due. Isidro's relatives began to drop off in rapid sequence--each demise demanding three
days of meditation in retirement--till at last the Maestro, who had had the excellent idea
of keeping upon paper a record of these unfortunate occurrences, was looking with stupor upon
a list showing that Isidro had lost, within three weeks, two aunts, three grandfathers, and
five grandmothers--which, considering that an actual count proved the house of bereavement
still able to boast of seventeen occupants, was plainly an exaggeration.

Following a long sermon from the Maestro in which he sought to explain to Isidro that he must
always tell the truth for sundry philosophical reasons--a statement which the First Assistant
tactfully smoothed to something within range of credulity by translating it that one must not
lie to Americanos, because Americanos do not like it--there came a period of serenity.

III--The Triumph

There came to the Maestro days of peace and joy. Isidro was coming to school; Isidro was learning
English. Isidro was steady, Isidro was docile, Isidro was positively so angelic that there
was something uncanny about the situation. And with Isidro, other little savages were being
pruned into the school-going stage of civilization. Helped by the police, they were pouring
in from barrio and hacienda; the attendance was going up by leaps and bounds, till at last
a circulative report showed that Balangilang had passed the odious Cabancalan with its less
strenuous school-man, and left it in the ruck by a full hundred. The Maestro was triumphant;
his chest had gained two inches in expansion. When he met Isidro at recess, playing cibay,
he murmured softly: "You little devil; you were Attendance personified, and I've got you now."
At which Isidro, pausing in the act of throwing a shell with the top of his head at another
shell on the ground, looked up beneath long lashes in a smile absolutely seraphic.

In the evening, the Maestro, his heart sweet with content, stood at the window. These were
moonlight nights; in the grassy lanes the young girls played graceful Spanish games, winding
like garlands to a gentle song; from the shadows of the huts came the tinkle-tinkle of serenading
guitars and yearning notes of violins wailing despairing love. And Isidro, seated on the bamboo
ladder of his house, went through an independent performance. He sang "Good-night, Ladies,"
the last song given to the school, sang it in soft falsetto, with languorous drawls, and never-ending
organ points, over and over again, till it changed character gradually, dropping into a wailing
minor, an endless croon full of obscure melancholy of a race that dies. At which he shook himself
together and began the next exercise, a recitation, all of one piece from first to last syllable,
in one high, monotonous note, like a mechanical doll saying "papa-mama."

"Oh-look-et-de-moon-she-ees-shinin-up-theyre-oh-mudder-she look-like-a-lom-in-de-ayre-lost-night-she-was-smalleyre-on-joos
like-a-bow-boot-now-she-ees-biggerr-on-rrraon-like-an-O."

Then a big gulp of air and again:

"Oh-look-et-de-moon-she-ees-shinin-up-theyre,----" etc.

An hour of this, and he skipped from the lyric to the patriotic, and then it was:

     "I-loof-dde-name-off-Wash-ing-ton,
       I-loof-my-coontrrree-tow,
     I-loof-dde-fleg-dde-dear-owl-fleg,
       Off-rridd-on-whit-on-bloo-oo-oo!"

These were days of ease and beauty to the Maestro, and he enjoyed them the more when a new
problem came to give action to his resourceful brain.

The thing was this: For three days there had not been one funeral in Balangilang.

In other climes, in other towns, this might have been a source of congratulation, perhaps,
but not in Balangilang. There were rumors of cholera in the towns to the north, and the Maestro,
as president of the Board of Health, was on the watch for it. Five deaths a day, experience
had taught him, was the healthy average for the town; and this sudden cessation of public burials--he
could not believe that dying had stopped--was something to make him suspicious.

It was over this puzzling situation that he was pondering at the morning recess, when his attention
was taken from it by a singular scene.

The "batas" of the school were flocking and pushing and jolting at the door of the basement
which served as stable for the municipal caribao. Elbowing his way to the spot, the Maestro
found Isidro at the entrance, gravely taking up an admission of five shells from those who
would enter. Business seemed to be brisk; Isidro had already a big bandana handkerchief bulging
with the receipts which were now overflowing into a great tao hat, obligingly loaned him by
one of his admirers, as one by one, those lucky enough to have the price filed in, feverish
curiosity upon their faces.

The Maestro thought that it might be well to go in also, which he did without paying admission.
The disappointed gate-keeper followed him. The Maestro found himself before a little pink-and-blue
tissue-paper box, frilled with paper rosettes.

"What have you in there?" asked the Maestro.

"My brother," answered Isidro sweetly.

He cast his eyes to the ground and watched his big toe drawing vague figures in the earth,
then appealing to the First Assistant who was present by this time, he added in the tone of
virtue which will be modest:

"Maestro Pablo does not like it when I do not come to school on account of a funeral, so I
brought him (pointing to the little box) with me."

"Well, I'll be----" was the only comment the Maestro found adequate at the moment.

"It is my little pickaninny-brother," went on Isidro, becoming alive to the fact that he was
a center of interest, "and he died last night of the great sickness."

"The great what?" ejaculated the Maestro who had caught a few words.

"The great sickness," explained the Assistant. "That is the name by which these ignorant people
call the cholera."

For the next two hours the Maestro was very busy.

Firstly he gathered the "batas" who had been rich enough to attend Isidro's little show and
locked them up--with the impresario himself--in the little town-jail close by. Then, after
a vivid exhortation upon the beauties of boiling water and reporting disease, he dismissed
the school for an indefinite period. After which, impressing the two town prisoners, now temporarily
out of home, he shouldered Isidro's pretty box, tramped to the cemetery and directed the digging
of a grave six feet deep. When the earth had been scraped back upon the lonely little object,
he returned to town and transferred the awe-stricken playgoers to his own house, where a strenuous
performance took place.

Tolio, his boy, built a most tremendous fire outside and set upon it all the pots and pans
and caldrons and cans of his kitchen arsenal, filled with water. When these began to gurgle
and steam, the Maestro set himself to stripping the horrified bunch in his room; one by one
he threw the garments out of the window to Tolio who, catching them, stuffed them into the
receptacles, poking down their bulging protest with a big stick. Then the Maestro mixed an
awful brew in an old oil-can, and taking the brush which was commonly used to sleek up his
little pony, he dipped it generously into the pungent stuff and began an energetic scrubbing
of his now absolutely panic-stricken wards. When he had done this to his satisfaction and thoroughly
to their discontent, he let them put on their still steaming garments and they slid out of
the house, aseptic as hospitals.

Isidro he kept longer. He lingered over him with loving and strenuous care, and after he had
him externally clean, proceeded to dose him internally from a little red bottle. Isidro took
everything--the terrific scrubbing, the exaggerated dosing, the ruinous treatment of his pantaloons--with
wonder-eyed serenity.

When all this was finished the Maestro took the urchin into the dining-room and, seating him
on his best bamboo chair, he courteously offered him a fine, dark perfecto.

The next instant he was suffused with the light of a new revelation. For, stretching out his
hard little claw to receive the gift, the little man had shot at him a glance so mild, so wistful,
so brown-eyed, filled with such mixed admiration, trust, and appeal, that a queer softness
had risen in the Maestro from somewhere down in the regions of his heel, up and up, quietly,
like the mercury in the thermometer, till it had flowed through his whole body and stood still,
its high-water mark a little lump in his throat.

"Why, Lord bless us-ones, Isidro," said the Maestro quietly. "We're only a child after all;
mere baby, my man. And don't we like to go to school?"

"Señor Pablo," asked the boy, looking up softly into the Maestro's still perspiring visage,
"Señor Pablo, is it true that there will be no school because of the great sickness?"

"Yes, it is true," answered the Maestro. "No school for a long, long time."

Then Isidro's mouth began to twitch queerly, and suddenly throwing himself full-length upon
the floor, he hurled out from somewhere within him a long, tremulous wail.

JAMES MERLE HOPPER

James Merle Hopper was born in Paris, France. His father was American, his mother French; their
son James was born July 23, 1876. In 1887 his parents came to America, and settled in California.
James Hopper attended the University of California, graduating in 1898. He is still remembered
there as one of the grittiest football players who ever played on the 'Varsity team. Then came
a course in the law school of that university, and admission to the California bar in 1900.
All this reads like the biography of a lawyer: so did the early life of James Russell Lowell,
and of Oliver Wendell Holmes: they were all admitted to the bar, but they did not become lawyers.
James Hopper had done some newspaper work for San Francisco papers while he was in law school,
and the love of writing had taken hold of him. In the meantime he had married Miss Mattie E.
Leonard, and as literature did not yet provide a means of support, he became an instructor
in French at the University of California.

With the close of the Spanish-American War came the call for thousands of Americans to go to
the Philippines as schoolmasters.

His experiences here furnished the material for a group of short stories dealing picturesquely
with the Filipinos in their first contact with American civilization. These were published
in McClure's, and afterwards collected in book form under the title Caybigan.

