As a class, they were excessively immoral. They purchased their flowers, out and out, from
the florists and made handsome profits, amounting to as much as two and three dollars a night
when the weather was fine; but their habits and immoralities became so patent that the societies
put a stop to their selling, by sending some to the House of the Good Shepherd, and arresting
others for soliciting and other unlawful acts; so that to-day it is very much to be doubted
if there are more than half a dozen in the city.

"Wharf rats," street gamins, Arabs, and other euphonious terms are applied to that class of
boys, who, having no homes, make one for themselves in the streets. They black boots--some
of them--in the day-time, sell newspapers in the afternoons, lie in wait for incoming travelers
from the trains to carry satchels, etc., and make a little money from all sources to supply
themselves with food and raiment. The balance, if any is left, they spend in going to the gallery
of some theatre, visiting some museum, or adjourning to their favorite haunt-- which frequently
is a low beer-dive in some obscure street, play pool or cards or dice for drinks, and otherwise
contrive to kill time, until their "business" of the next day begins.

It used to be a familiar sight to see the saloons of Baxter, Mott and Mulberry streets filled
with these boys. It was only a few years ago that they had their own theatre, yclept "The Grand
Duke's Theatre," at 21 Baxter street, in the cellar under a stale beer dive, where really clever
performances were given of an imitative character, by a company of boys; and which, by the
way, was the only theatre which for years defied the efforts of the authorities to collect
the license. The admission fee was ten cents, and curiosity seekers came from all parts of
the city to witness the really laughable and, in many cases, meritorious character-sketches
given within its damp walls. It was subsequently broken up by the police.

Boys and girls appear to be alike in one respect--the streets of the city are full of them
at all hours of the day and night. The water, however, would appear to act like a magnet upon
the needle, having peculiar attractions for them at all times, and to which vicinity, at night
in summer, they naturally gravitate. On the piers which jut out into the rivers on all sides
of the city, any one can see troupes of gamins every warm, pleasant day. Some are fishing,
others are pitching pennies, others, again, playing various apparently harmless games, but
all with eyes for the main chance--an opportunity to steal anything come-at-able. To the policeman
who, from curiosity or to get a sniff of sea breeze, chances to stroll upon the pier, he finds
them all engaged as described. Ships are unloading cargoes of assorted merchandise, which is
being placed upon the dock. Bags of coffee are in one place, chests of tea in another, hogsheads
of molasses and sugar, and various other kinds of goods are distributed all over the place.
Some boys are playing "tag," and they run around and over the bags of coffee, behind the hogsheads
of sugar, ostensibly in play, but all the while keeping a sharp eye on the watchmen, police
and people employed there. A favorable chance occurring, a boy drops behind one of the bags
of coffee and quickly and expeditiously rips it open with a sharp knife and bounds away. The
coffee thus loosened freely discharges itself upon the dock in a little heap. In like manner
a knot in the wood forming a head in a barrel of sugar is knocked out, leaving a round hole,
into which the Arab thrusts a long, thin stick and, dexterously withdrawing it, contrives to
pull out considerable sugar. The bung of a molasses barrel is burst in, a stick inserted, which,
when pulled out, has some of the contents thickly adhering to it.