But the intention to harm the building is evident, and I have thought that perhaps it would
be well to take certain precautions to protect, if possible, the fine fourteenth century statue
of the Virgin that stands near the pillar, and that it is not impossible perhaps to transfer
it to a safer place.

E. HARANCOURT, Member of the Commission on Historical Monuments.

A report from M. Paul Boeswillwald, Inspector General of Historical Monuments, confirms the
first statements:

Historical Monuments, Cathedral of Paris.

PARIS, Oct. 12, 1914.

The Inspector General of Historical Monuments to the Under Secretary of State for the Fine Arts.

I have the honor to report that I went this morning to Notre Dame to examine the damage caused
by the bomb thrown yesterday afternoon on to the cathedral by a German aviator. The bomb struck
the lower part of the west slope of the top of the north transept, tearing the lead, breaking
a piece of the wooden frame, and smashing by its explosion the crown of the pinnacle which
cuts the balustrade at the right of the flying buttress intermediary in the sexpartite vault
of the transept. Other effects of the explosion were the striking of some stones and the leads
of the dormer window which carries the frame of a clock, as also some small windows. The fragments
of the pinnacle fell on the roof of the lower slope, where they made a deep imprint on the
lead cover without breaking it through.

The projectile was not an incendiary bomb, since the wood splintered by it bears no trace of fire.

To resume, the damage is, fortunately, quite unimportant.

The order has been given to set aside all the fragments of stone belonging to the decoration
of the pinnacle, remains of crockets, ornaments, &c.

(Signed) PAUL BOESWILLWALD.

With all the friends of civilization and of art, we think that the question of the slightness
of the damage caused by this Taube is not to be considered at all. But the fact of this Taube
having accomplished such a raid with the sole design of bombarding a cathedral in a peaceful
city, 100 kilometres off from the military operations--is it not the most patent and evident
demonstration of the kind of Neronian dilettantism which, along with calculation, inspires
the crimes of the barbarians?

APPENDIX III.

No. 1.

WHAT OUR PROVINCIAL CITIES ARE.

Here is a page published by Anatole France apropos of the bombardment of Soissons:

I had just read in a newspaper that the Germans, who have been bombarding Soissons these four
months, have dropped eighty shells on the cathedral. A moment later chance brought before me
a book of M. André Hallays, where I find these lines, which I take pleasure in transcribing:

"Soissons is a white city, peaceful and smiling, that raises its tower and pointed spires at
the edge of a lazy river, at the centre of a circle of green hills. The city and the landscape
make one think of the little pictures that the illuminators of our old manuscripts lovingly
painted.... Precious monuments show the whole history of the French Monarchy, from the Merovingian
crypts of the Abbaye de Saint-Médard to the fine mansion erected on the eve of the Revolution
for the Governors of the province. Amid narrow streets and little gardens a magnificent cathedral
extends the two arms of its great transept; at the north is a straight wall, and an immense
stained-glass window; at the south, that marvelous apse where the ogive and the full centre
combine in so delicate a fashion." ("Around Paris," Page 207.)

That charming page from a writer who dearly loves the cities and monuments of France brought
tears to my eyes. It charmed my sadness. I want to thank my colleague for it publicly.

The brutal and stupid destruction of monuments consecrated by art and the years is a crime
that war does not excuse. May it be an eternal opprobrium for the Germans!

No. 2.

MARTYRDOM THAT ENNOBLES.

To illustrate this memorial, which is first addressed to the Friends of the Beautiful, and
whose object is to touch the heart, we give a sonnet of M. Edmond Rostand. It is entitled,
"The Cathedral," and will show that pride may be taken by the victim of violence, and that
a crime against the beautiful diminishes only the brute who commits it:

Nought have they done but render it more immortal! The work does not perish that a scoundrel
has struck. Ask Phidias, then, or ask of Rodin if before bits of his work men no longer say,
"It is his!" The fortress dies when once dismantled, but the temple shattered lives but the
more nobly; and our eyes, of a sudden, remember the roof with disdain and prefer to see the
sky in the lace work of the stone. Let us give thanks, since till now we lacked what the Greeks
possess on the hill of gold--the symbol of beauty consecrated by insult! Let us give thanks
to the layers of the stupid cannon, since from their German skill there results for them--shame;
for us--a Parthenon!

No. 3.

A SOLEMN PROTEST.

We mean the one issued on the 29th of October by the Académie Française at one of its sessions,
meeting under the Presidency of M. Marcel Prévost, M. Etienne Lamy being Perpetual Secretary.
The President of the Republic, M. Raymond Poincaré, made it a point to be present at this session,
and here is the document that, after long deliberation, was approved by the unanimous vote
of the members present:

The Académie Française protests against all the affirmations by which Germany lyingly imputes
to France or to its allies the responsibility for the war.

It protests against all the negations opposed to the evident authenticity of the abominable
acts committed by the German armies.

In the name of French civilization and human civilization, it stigmatizes the violators of
Belgian neutrality, the killers of women and children, the savage destroyers of noble monuments
of the past, the incendiaries of the University of Louvain, of the Cathedral of Rheims, and
those who wanted also to burn Notre Dame.

It expresses its enthusiasm for the armies that struggle against the coalition of Germany and
Austria.

With profound emotion it salutes our soldiers who, animated by the virtues of our ancestors,
are thus demonstrating the immortality of France.

When these words were published they may have appeared excessive to certain minds outside of
the best-informed circles.... Since then diplomatic documents have appeared, followed by various
official reports on German atrocities, and today the truth is known to all.

No. 4.

THE FRENCH POINT OF VIEW.

On the 9th of November the President of the Council, M. René Viviani, traveled to Rheims in
order to deliver to the Mayor, M. Langlet, the Cross of the Legion of Honor that his courage
had gained for him. On this occasion the President of the Council pronounced the discourse
from which the following is cited as exhibiting French thought on the present war:

As if it were really necessary to accentuate the rôle of France, German militarism has raised
its voice. It proclaims, through the organ of those whose mission it is to think for it, the
cult of force and that history asks no accounts from the victor. We are not a chimerical people,
nor dreamers, we do not despise force; only we put it in its place, which is at the service
of the right. It is for the right that we are contending, for that Belgium is struggling by
our side, she who sacrificed herself for honor; and for that, also, our English and Russian
allies whose armies, while waiting till they can tread this unchained force under foot, oppose
it with an invincible rampart. France is not a preying country; it does not stretch out rapacious
hands to enslave the world. Since war has been forced upon her, she makes war. Soon the legitimate
reparations will come which shall restore to the French hearth the souls that the brutality
of arms separated from it. Associated in a work of human liberation we shall go on, allies
and Frenchmen united in war and for peace, as long as we have not broken Prussian militarism
and the sword of murder with the sword of freedom.

CAMPAIGN IN EASTERN EUROPE

June 16--Austro-German drive toward Lemberg continues, although Russians are moving reinforcements
to their retreating line; only section where Russians are checking the Teutonic allies is that
between the Dniester marshes and Zurawna; Austrian official statement says that 108 Russian
officers, 122,300 men, 53 cannon, and 187 machine guns were captured during the first fifteen
days of June; Russians estimate that 2,800,000 men are operating against them.

June 17--Austro-German drive at Lemberg continues from the west and northwest; at one point
Russians are retreating over their own frontier toward Tarnogrod, four miles from the Galician
border; Austro-Germans have battered their way through Niemerow, thirty miles northwest of
Lemberg, and are advancing toward Jaworow, twenty-five miles from Lemberg.

June 18--Austro-Germans are nearer Lemberg; the battle for the Galician capital is raging along
a fortified line at Grodek, sixteen miles west of Lemberg; Austro-Germans drive Russians across
the frontier of Poland near Tarnogrod, which falls into the hands of the Teutonic allies; Austrians
penetrate ten miles into Bessarabia.

June 19--Austro-Germans make important gains in their drive on Lemberg; they take the strongly
fortified town of Grodek, and cross the River Tanew; they take Komarno, twenty miles southwest
of Lemberg.

June 20--Russians are in general retreat along their entire front west of Lemberg; Mackensen's
men take Russian trenches along a front of nearly twenty-four miles northwest of Lemberg.

June 21--Austro-Germans take Rawa Ruska, and are now fighting east of that town, the investment
of Lemberg being almost complete; advance forces of the Teutonic allies are within nine miles
of the limits of Lemberg; north and south of Lemberg the Russians are falling back toward the
city; on the Upper Dniester the Russians are beginning to evacuate their positions.

June 22--Austro-German forces take Lemberg, capital of Galicia, which has been held by the
Russians since Sept. 3, and which they have called Lvov, the Second Austrian Army, under General
von Boehm-Ermolli, entering first; Russians withdraw systematically and in good order, leaving
behind few prisoners and removing the Russian documents from the city; Russians along practically
the whole line in Galicia are abandoning as much territory as they can cover in the twenty-four
hours each day, retreating in fairly good order.

June 23--Russians are retreating near Rawa Ruska and Zolkiew; Russians are also retreating
between the San and Vistula Rivers and in the hill district of Kielce, Russian Poland; Montenegrins
are marching against Scutari, Albania, in three columns.

June 24--Russians are still retreating in Galicia.

June 25--Russians throw part of General Linsingen's army back across the Dniester to the south
bank; Petrograd reports that the Russian armies, despite their weeks of retreat in Galicia,
are practically intact, and that they have inflicted vast losses on the Austro-Germans, having
captured 130,000 men, 60 cannon, and nearly 300 machine guns; severe fighting in Bessarabia.

June 27--Russians retreat in Galicia, both north and south of Lemberg; Serbians capture Micharskaada,
Austria, near Shabatz, taking much war material.

June 28--Austro-Germans take the Galician town of Halicz and cross the Dniester; Russians are
falling back to the Gnila Lipa River; northeast of Lemberg the Austro-Germans are forcing back
the Russians, who are forming along the Bug River; Montenegrins occupy the Albanian harbor
of Giovanni Medua and are now marching on Alessio.

June 29--Austro-Germans drive Russians across the Russian frontier north of Lemberg, taking
the town of Tomaszow, Poland; Austro-Germans reach the Gnila Lipa River and the Bug River,
near Kamionka; Rome reports that the Montenegrins have entered Scutari, Albania.

June 30--To the north and northwest of Lemberg the Russians continue to retreat; the Austro-Germans
take another Polish town, Zawichost, just over the frontier.

July 2--Austro-Germans continue to advance in Galicia and Poland.

July 3--Austro-Germans continue to advance as the Russians fall back in good order; west of
Zamosc the Russians are repulsed beyond the Por River; east of Krasnik, the Austro-Germans
capture Studzianki; it is unofficially estimated by Berlin experts that from May 2 until June
27 the Russians left in the hands of the Germans 1,630 officers and 520,000 men as prisoners,
300 field guns, 770 machine guns, and vast quantities of war material.

July 4--Linsingen's army is advancing toward the Zlota Lipa River, the Russians falling back;
along the Bug River Mackensen's armies are attacking; Teutonic allies take the heights north
of Krasnik; there is fierce fighting in the Russian Baltic provinces.

July 5--Russians are making a desperate stand between the Pruth and Dniester Rivers.

July 6--With the exception of certain sectors between the Vistula and the Bug Rivers, the Austro-German
drive seems to be losing its momentum: the Russians are holding at most points along their line.

July 7--Russians, who have been strongly reinforced, check the Austro-German advance toward
the Lublin Railway, which threatens to imperil Warsaw.

July 8--Russians hold up Austro-German attempt to outflank Warsaw from the southwest; Austrians
are compelled to retire north of Krasnik; Austro-Germans are checked on the lower Zlota Lipa River.

July 10--Russians are delivering smashing blows against the Austrians, commanded by Archduke
Ferdinand, in Southern Poland.

July 12--On the East Prussian front, near Suwalki, the Germans take 2-1/2 miles of Russian
trenches; in the Lublin region, Southern Poland, the Russian troops, having completed their
counter-offensive movement, occupy the positions assigned to them on the heights of the right
bank of the River Urzendooka; Austrians repulse strong and repeated Montenegrin attacks on
the Herzegovina frontier.

July 13--The Austrians in the Lublin region are retreating toward the Galician frontier and
some of them have crossed the border into their own territory.

July 15--Germans renew their drive on Warsaw from the north, and take Przasnysz, a fortified
town fifty miles north of Warsaw.

CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN EUROPE

June 16--British resume offensive near Ypres, north of Hooge, capturing trenches along a front
of 1,000 yards; French make gains north of Arras, in the labyrinth, and near Souchez and Lorette;
French make progress in the Vosges, on both banks of the Fecht River.

June 17--After severe fighting for two days, during which the Germans bring 220,000 men into
action and the French fire 300,000 shells, French make important gains near Souchez and at
other points in the sector north of Arras; French retain nearly all their gains, despite furious
counter-attacks.

June 18--A strong and concerted attack is being made by the British and French upon the German
front from east of Ypres to south of Arras; British retain a first line of German trenches
won east of Ypres.

June 19--French carry by assault the position of Fond de Buval, a ravine west of the road between
Souchez and Aix-Noulette, where fighting has been in progress since May 9; French advance northwest
of the labyrinth; French advance farther on the Fecht River in Alsace, Germans evacuating Metzeral,
after setting it on fire.

June 20--Germans make a strong attack on the French lines in the Western Argonne, the French
stating that it was preceded by a bombardment with asphyxiating projectiles.

June 21--French take trenches on the heights of the Meuse; in Lorraine the French advance and
take the works to the west of Gondrexon; in Alsace the French are advancing beyond Metzeral
in the direction of Meyerhof.

June 22--It is officially announced that the French are in possession of the labyrinth, for
which furious fighting has been in progress day and night since May 30; the labyrinth consists
of a vast network of fortifications built by the Germans between Neuville-St. Vaast and Ecurie,
north of Arras, forming a salient of the German line.

June 25--On the heights of the Meuse, at the Calonne trench, Germans make a violent night attack,
with the aid of asphyxiating bombs and flaming liquids, and penetrate that portion of the former
German second line of defense recently taken by the French, but the French retake the ground
by a counter-attack.

June 26--Germans retake some of their trenches north of Souchez.

June 27--Violent artillery fighting occurs in Belgium and north of Arras.

June 28--Severe artillery duels are fought along the front from the Aisne to Flanders.

June 29--Heavy cannonading is in progress north of Arras, particularly near Souchez.

June 30--Artillery actions are fought north of Arras and on the banks of the Yser; in the Argonne
the Germans gain a foothold at some points of the French line near Bagatelle.

July 1--North of Arras and along the Aisne heavy artillery engagements are being fought.

July 2--In the western part of the Argonne a German army under the Crown Prince takes the offensive,
and northwest of Le Four-de-Paris German troops advance from one-eighth to one-fifth of a mile
on a three-mile front, taking war material and prisoners.

July 3--German artillery carries on severe bombardments along practically the whole front;
French repulse two German attacks in the region of Metzeral.

July 4--Spirited artillery actions are fought in the region of Nieuport and on the Steenstraete-Het
Sase front.

July 5--Germans take trenches from the French at the Forest of Le Prêtre; French repulse attacks
north of Arras.

July 6--British gain near Ypres, expelling Germans from trenches near Pilkem won during the
gas assaults in April.

July 8--French take 800 yards of trenches north of the Souchez railway station, Germans recapturing
100 yards; German counter-attacks on the trenches southwest of Pilkem, recently taken by the
British, are repulsed by British and French artillery.

July 9--British press on north of Ypres, the Germans falling back after a two-days' bombardment;
in the Vosges, near Fontenelle, the French advance.

July 10--French check the Germans north of Arras and the Belgians check them on the Yser.

July 11--Artillery actions are in progress at Nieuport, in the region of the Aisne, in Champagne,
in the territory between the Upper Meuse and Moselle, and in the Vosges: Arras and Rheims are
again shelled.

July 13--German Crown Prince's army, attacking in force, is thrown back by the French in the
Argonne, the move being regarded by military observers as the beginning of a new offensive
against Verdun.

July 14--The German Crown Prince's army in the Argonne advances two-thirds of a mile, the French
then halting it.

July 15--Germans hold gains made in the Argonne.

ITALIAN CAMPAIGN

June 16--Along the Isonzo River, on the line from Podgora to Montforton and to the intersection
of the Monfalcone Canal, Austrians are holding Italians in check by elaborate defenses, which
include intrenchments sometimes in several lines and often in masonry or concrete, reinforced
by metallic sheeting and protected by a network of mines or batteries often placed below ground;
Italians are attacking Austrian positions at Goritz.

June 17--After a two-days' fight, Italians take the heights near Plava, on the left bank of
the Isonzo River; Italians operating in the Trentino occupy Mori, five miles from Rovereto.

June 18--Austrians are taking the offensive from Mori and Rovereto against the Italians at
Brentonico, at Serravale, and in the Arsa Valley; Austrians repulse Italians near Plava; Italians
are shelling Gradisca.

June 19--It is unofficially reported from Rome that the Italian army now occupies 10,000 square
kilometers of "unredeemed" territory, or more than twice as much as Austria offered to Italy
for remaining neutral.

June 20--In the Monte Nero region, Italians take further positions; Italians repulse two counter-attacks
on the Isonzo.

June 21--Italians are making a general attack on Austrian positions; Austrians repulse Italians
east of the Fassa Valley; Austrians repulse two attacks near Preva.

June 22--Italians have had heavy losses during the last four days in attempting to take by
assault Austrian positions along the Isonzo River.

June 23--Italians gain possession of all the positions defending Malborgeth in Carnia, after
hard fighting, and are bombarding the city.

June 24--Austrians take a general offensive, made possible by extensive reinforcements, but
fail to make gains; heavy artillery fighting is in progress along the Isonzo.

June 25--Italians are advancing gradually along the Isonzo River and have taken Globna, north
of Plava, and on the lower Isonzo have taken the edge of the plateau between Sagrado and Monfalcone.

June 27--West of the Monte Croce Pass the Italians occupy the summit of Zeillenkofel, 2,500
feet high; official Italian report states that at various points on the Isonzo River the Austrians
are using shells containing asphyxiating gases.

June 28--Italians have entered Austrian territory south of Riva, on the western side of Lake
Garda, through the Nota Vil passes about 5,000 feet high, and have descended the precipitous
cliffs of Carone Mountain, over 8,000 feet high, and have entered the Ledro Valley, reaching
the Ponale River.

June 29--Austrian artillery is active in the Tyrol and Trentino regions.

June 30--Italians on the Carnic front capture three passes in the Alps; Austrians repulse attacks
in the Monfalcone and Sagrado district, and near Plava.

July 1--Austrians repulse Italians northeast of Monfalcone.

July 2--Italians take the village of Tolmino, on the Isonzo, north of Gorizia, but the Austrians
hold the neighboring fortifications and are bombarding the village.

July 3--Italians make slight gains along the Isonzo; Austrians repulse repeated Italian attacks
near Folazzo and Sagrado.

July 4--A battle is raging on the Isonzo River, between Caporetto and Gradisca; Italians are
advancing on the east bank between Plava and Tolmino.

July 5--Italians are shelling the Austrian defensive works at Malborgeth and Predil.

July 6--Austrian attacks in the Tyrol and Trentino region are repulsed; Italians gain ground
on the Carso plateau beyond the Isonzo.

July 7--Austrians repulse repeated and strong Italian attacks against the Doberdo Plateau;
Austrians hold the bridgehead at Goritz, despite terrific bombardment by massed guns.

July 8--Italians repulse attacks in Carnia; Italians are slowly advancing on the Carnic Plateau.

July 9--In the upper Ansici Valley the Italian artillery bombards Platzwisce Fort; Italian
artillery continues to bombard the defenses of Malborgeth and Predil Pass.

July 12--Austrians are making desperate attempts to penetrate Italy through the Carnic Alps,
relying chiefly upon night attacks, but all attacks have thus far been repulsed.

July 13--Attempt to invade Italian territory at Kreusberg is repulsed with heavy loss.

July 14--Italians take two miles of Austrian trenches in the Carnic Alps; Italians take two
forts south of Goritz.

TURKISH CAMPAIGN

June 16--Turkish artillery damages Allies' positions at Avi Burnu.

