Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries. See
      http://www.archive.org/details/browningstheirli00whituoft

THE BROWNINGS

Their Life and Art

THE BROWNINGS

Their Life and Art

by

LILIAN WHITING

Author of "The World Beautiful," "Italy the Magic Land," "The Spiritual Significance," Etc.

Illustrated

Boston Little, Brown, and Company 1911

Copyright, 1911, by Little, Brown, and Company.

All rights reserved

Published, October, 1911

Printers S. J. Parkhill & Co., Boston, U.S.A.

  INSCRIBED TO
  ROBERT BARRETT BROWNING
  (CAVALIERE DELLA CORONA D'ITALIA)
  PAINTER, SCULPTOR, CONNOISSEUR IN ART
  WITH ENCHANTING REMEMBRANCES OF HOURS IN "LA TORRE
  ALL' ANTELLA" AND THE FAITHFUL REGARDS OF

  LILIAN WHITING
  FLORENCE, ITALY,
  June, 1911

FOREWORD

The present volume was initiated in Florence, and, from its first inception, invested with
the cordial assent and the sympathetic encouragement of Robert Barrett Browning. One never-to-be-forgotten
day, all ethereal light and loveliness, has left its picture in memory, when, in company with
Mr. Browning and his life-long friend, the Marchesa Peruzzi di' Medici (náta Story), the writer
of this biography strolled with them under the host's orange trees and among the riotous roses
of his Florentine villa, "La Torre All' Antella," listening to their sparkling conversation,
replete with fascinating reminiscences. To Mr. Browning the tribute of thanks, whose full scope
is known to the Recording Angel alone, is here offered; and there is the blending of both privilege
and duty in grateful acknowledgements to Messrs. Smith, Elder, & Company for their courtesy
in permitting the somewhat liberal drawing on their published Letters of both the Brownings,
on which reliance had to be based in any effort to

  "Call up the buried Past again,"

and construct the story, from season to season, so far as might be, of that wonderful interlude
of the wedded life of the poets.

Yet any formality of thanks to this house is almost lost sight of in the rush of memories of
that long and mutually-trusting friendship between the late George Murray Smith, the former
head of this firm, and Robert Browning, a friendship which was one of the choicest treasures
in both their lives.

To The Macmillan Company, the publishers for both the first and the present Lord Tennyson;
To Houghton Mifflin Company; to Messrs. Dodd, Mead, & Company; to The Cornhill Magazine (to
which the writer is indebted for some data regarding Browning and Professor Masson); to each
and all, acknowledgments are offered for their courtesy which has invested with added charm
a work than which none was ever more completely a labor of love.

To Edith, Contessa Rucellai (náta Bronson), whose characteristically lovely kindness placed
at the disposal of this volume a number of letters written by Robert Browning to her mother,
Mrs. Arthur Bronson, special gratitude is offered.

"Poetry," said Mrs. Browning, "is its own exceeding great reward." Any effort, however remote
its results from the ideal that haunted the writer, to interpret the lives of such transcendent
genius and nobleness as those of Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, must also be its own
exceeding reward in leading to a passion of pursuit of all that is highest and holiest in the
life that now is, and in that which is to come.

  LILIAN WHITING

  THE BRUNSWICK, BOSTON
      Midsummer Days, 1911

CONTENTS

                                                                      PAGE
CHAPTER I

1812-1833

The Most Exquisite Romance of Modern Life--Ancestry and Youth of
    Robert Browning--Love of Music--Formative Influences--The
    Fascination of Byron--A Home "Crammed with Books"--The Spell
    of Shelley--"Incondita"--Poetic Vocation Definitely
    Chosen--"Pauline"                                                    1

CHAPTER II

1806-1832

Childhood and Early Youth of Elizabeth Barrett--Hope End--"Summer
    Snow of Apple-Blossoms"--Her Bower of White Roses--"Living
    with Visions"--The Malvern Hills--Hugh Stuart Boyd--Love of
    Learning--"Juvenilia"--Impassioned Devotion to Poetry               16

CHAPTER III

1833-1841

Browning Visits Russia--"Paracelsus"--Recognition of Wordsworth
    and Landor--"Strafford"--First Visit to Italy--Mrs. Carlyle's
    Baffled Reading of "Sordello"--Lofty Motif of the Poem--The
    Universal Problem of Life--Enthusiasm for Italy--The
    Sibylline Leaves Yet to Unfold                                      26

CHAPTER IV

1833-1841

Elizabeth Barrett's Love for the Greek Poets--Lyrical Work--
    Serious Entrance on Professional Literature--Noble Ideal
    of Poetry--London Life--Kenyon--First Knowledge of Robert
    Browning                                                            44

CHAPTER V

1841-1846

"Bells and Pomegranates"--Arnould and Domett--"A Blot in the
    'Scutcheon"--Macready--Second Visit to Italy--Miss Barrett's
    Poetic Work--"Colombe's Birthday"--"Lady Geraldine's
    Courtship"--"Romances and Lyrics"--Browning's First Letter
    to Miss Barrett--The Poets Meet--Letters of Robert Browning
    and Elizabeth Barrett--"Loves of the Poets"--Vita Nuova             67

CHAPTER VI

1846-1850

Marriage and Italy--"In That New World"--The Haunts of
    Petrarca--The Magic Land--In Pisa--Vallombrosa--"Un Bel
    Giro"--Guercino's Angel--Casa Guidi--Birth of Robert Barrett
    Browning--Bagni di Lucca--"Sonnets from the Portuguese"--The
    Enchantment of Italy                                                92

CHAPTER VII

1850-1855

"Casa Guidi Windows"--Society in Florence--Marchesa d'Ossoli--
    Browning's Poetic Creed--Villeggiatura in Siena--Venice--
    Brilliant Life in London--Paris and Milsand--Browning on
    Shelley--In Florence--Idyllic Days in Bagni di Lucca--Mrs.
    Browning's Spiritual Outlook--Delightful Winter in Rome--A
    Poetic Pilgrimage--Harriet Hosmer--Characteristics of Mrs.
    Browning                                                           115

CHAPTER VIII

1855-1861

London Life--An Interlude in Paris--"Aurora Leigh"--Florentine
    Days--"Men and Women"--The Hawthornes--"The Old Yellow
    Book"--A Summer in Normandy--The Eternal City--The Storys and
    Other Friends--Lilies of Florence--"It Is Beautiful!"              163

CHAPTER IX

1861-1869

The Completed Cycle--Letters to Friends--Browning's Devotion to
    His Son--Warwick Crescent--"Dramatis Personæ"--London Life--
    Death of the Poet's Father--Sarianna Browning--Oxford Honors
    the Poet--Death of Arabel Barrett--Audierne--"The Ring and
    the Book"                                                          199

CHAPTER X

1869-1880

In Scotland with the Storys--Browning's Conversation--An Amusing
    Incident--With Milsand at St. Aubin's--"The Red Cotton
    Night-cap Country"--Robert Barrett Browning's Gift for Art--
    Alfred Domett ("Waring")--"Balaustion's Adventure"--Browning
    and Tennyson--"Pacchiarotto"--Visits Jowett at Oxford--
    Declines Lord Rectorship of St. Andrews--"La Saisiaz"--Italy
    Revisited--The Dream of Asolo--"Ivanovitch"--Pride in His
    Son's Success--"Dramatic Idylls"                                   221

CHAPTER XI

1880-1888

"Les Charmettes"--Venetian Days--Dr. Hiram Corson--The Browning
    Society--Oxford Honors Browning--Katherine DeKay Bronson--
    Honors from Edinburgh--Visit to Professor Masson--Italian
    Recognition--Nancioni--The Goldoni Sonnet--At St. Moritz--
    In Palazzo Giustiniani--"Ferishtah's Fancies"--Companionship
    with His Son--Death of Milsand--Letters to Mrs. Bronson--
    DeVere Gardens--Palazzo Rezzonico--Sunsets from the Lido--
    Robert Barrett Browning's Gift in Portraiture                      238

CHAPTER XII

1888-1889

"Asolando"--Last Days in DeVere Gardens--Letters of Browning and
    Tennyson--Venetian Lingerings and Friends--Mrs. Bronson's
    Choice Circle--Browning's Letters to Mrs. Bronson--Asolo--
    "In Ruby, Emerald, Chrysopras"--Last Meeting of Browning and
    Story--In Palazzo Rezzonico--Last Meeting with Dr. Corson--
    Honored by Westminster Abbey--A Cross of Violets--Choral
    Music to Mrs. Browning's Poem, "The Sleep"--"And with God Be
    the Rest!"                                                         269

Index                                                                  297

ILLUSTRATIONS

In Photogravure

                                                                      PAGE

  Robert Browning                                           Frontispiece
    From a drawing by Field Talfourd, Rome, 1855

  Elizabeth Barrett Browning                                            39
    From a drawing by Field Talfourd, Rome, 1855

Engravings

  Busts of Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning                         2

  Monument to Michael Angelo, by Vasari                                 80
    Church of Santa Croce, Florence

  Old Monastery at Vallombrosa                                          98

  The Guardian Angel, Guercino                                         103
    Church of San Agostino, Fano

  Monument to Dante, by Stefano Ricci                                  108
    Piazza di Santa Croce, Florence

  Palazzo Vecchio, Florence                                            113

  Statue of Savonarola, by E. Pazzi                                    116
    Sala dei Cinquecento, Palazzo Vecchio, Florence

  Fresco of Dante, by Giotto                                           121
    The Bargello, Florence

  Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore, Florence (known as
  the Duomo)                                                           126

  The Ponte Vecchio and the Arno, Florence                             142

  Casa Guidi                                                           146

  The Clasped Hands of the Brownings                                   153
    Cast in bronze from the model taken by Harriet Hosmer in
    Rome, 1853

  The Campagna and Ruins of the Claudian Aqueducts, Rome               156

  The Coronation of the Virgin, by Filippo Lippi                       166
    Accademia di Belle Arti, Florence

  Andrea del Sarto. Portrait of the Artist and his Wife                170
    Pitti Gallery, Florence

  Equestrian Statue of Ferdinando de' Medici, by Giovanni
  da Bologna                                                           174
    Piazza dell' Annunziata, Florence

  Villa Petraja, near Florence                                         178

  Church of San Miniato, near Florence                                 182

  The Palazzo Barberini, Via Quattro Fontane, Rome                     188

  The English Cemetery, Florence                                       197

  Tomb of Elizabeth Barrett Browning                                   200

  Kate Field                                                           208
    From the portrait by Elihu Vedder, Florence, 1860

  The Pallazzo Riccardi, Florence                                      214

  Bust of Robert Browning, by his Son                                  226

  Portrait of Robert Browning in 1882, by his Son                      242

  Church of San Lorenzo, Florence                                      246

  Portrait of Robert Barrett Browning, as a Child, 1859                263

  Portrait of Robert Browning, by George Frederick Watts, R.A.         270

  Mrs. Arthur Bronson, by Ellen Montalba, in Asolo                     274

  Miss Edith Bronson, (Comtessa Rucellai)                              280

  Portrait of Professor Hiram Corson, by J. Colin Forbes, R.A.         290

  Palazzo Rezzonico, Venice                                            294

  Engraved Facsimile of a letter from Robert Browning to
  Professor Hiram Corson                                               260

  THE BROWNINGS
  THEIR LIFE AND ART

CHAPTER I

1812-1833

  "Allons! after the Great Companions! and to belong to them!"

  "To know the universe itself as a road--as many roads--as
  roads for travelling souls."

Such a very page de Contes is the life of the wedded poets, Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning,
that it is difficult to realize that this immortal idyl of Poetry, Genius, and Love was less
than fifteen years in duration, out of his seventy-seven, and her fifty-five years of life.
It is a story that has touched the entire world

          "... with mystic gleams,
  Like fragments of forgotten dreams,"

this story of beautiful associations and friendships, of artistic creation, and of the entrance
on a wonderful realm of inspiration and loveliness. At the time of their marriage he was in
his thirty-fifth, and she in her forty-first year, although she is described as looking so
youthful that she was like a girl, in her slender, flower-like grace; and he lived on for twenty-eight
years after

  "Clouds and darkness
  Fell upon Camelot,"

with the death of his "Lyric Love." The story of the most beautiful romance that the world
has ever known thus falls into three distinctive periods,--that of the separate life of each
up to the time of their marriage; their married life, with its scenic setting in the enchantment
of Italy; and his life after her withdrawal from earthly scenes. The story is also of duplex
texture; for the outer life, rich in associations, travel, impressions, is but the visible
side of the life of great creative art. A delightful journey is made, but its record is not
limited to the enjoyment of friends and place; a poem is written whose charm and power persist
through all the years.

No adequate word could be written of the Brownings that did not take account of this twofold
life of the poets. It is almost unprecedented that the power and resplendence and beauty of
the life of art should find, in the temporal environment, so eminent a correspondence of beauty
as it did with Robert and Elizabeth Browning. Not that they were in any wise exempt from sorrow
and pain; the poet, least of all, would choose to be translated, even if he might, to some
enchanted region remote from all the mingled experiences of humanity; it is the common lot
of destiny, with its prismatic blending of failure and success, of purpose and achievement,
of hope and defeat, of love and sorrow, out of which the poet draws his song. He would not choose

  "That jar of violet wine set in the air,
  That palest rose sweet in the night of life,"

to the exclusion of the common experiences of the day.

  "Who never ate his bread in sorrow,
    Who never spent the darksome hours
  Weeping, and watching for the morrow,
    He knows you not, ye unseen Powers."

But to those who, poets or otherwise, see life somewhat in the true proportion of its lasting
relations, events are largely transmuted into experiences, and are realized in their extended
relations. The destiny of the Brownings led them into constantly picturesque surroundings;
and the force and manliness of his nature, the tender sweetness and playful loveliness of hers,
combined with their vast intellectual range, their mutual genius for friendships, their devotion
to each other and to their son, their reverence for their art, and their lofty and noble spirituality
of nature,--all united to produce this exquisite and unrivaled romance of life,--

  "A Beauty passing the earth's store."

The rapture of the poet's dream pervaded every experience.

  "O Life, O Poetry,
  Which means life in life."

The transmutation of each into the other, both Life and Poetry, as revealed in their lives,
is something as exceptional as it is beautiful in the world's history.

In the ancestry of Robert Browning there was nothing especially distinctive, although it is
representative of the best order of people; of eminently reputable life, of moderate means,
of culture, and of assured intelligence. It is to the Brownings of Dorsetshire, who were large
manor-owners in the time of Henry VII, that the poet's family is traced. Robert Browning, the
grandfather of the poet, was a clerk in the Bank of England, a position he obtained through
the influence of the Earl of Shaftesbury. Entering on this work at the age of twenty, he served
honorably for fifty years, and was promoted to the position of the Bank Stock office, a highly
responsible place, that brought him in constant contact with the leading financiers of the
day. Born in 1749, he had married, in 1778, Margaret Tittle, the inheritor of some property
in the West Indies, where she was born of English parentage. The second Robert, the father
of the poet, was the son of this union. In his early youth he was sent out to take charge of
his mother's property, and his grandson, Robert Barrett Browning, relates with pardonable pride
how he resigned the post, which was a lucrative one, because he could not tolerate the system
of slave labor prevailing there. By this act he forfeited all the estate designed for him,
and returned to England to face privation and to make his own way. He, too, became a clerk
in the Bank of England, and in 1811, at the age of thirty, married Sarah Anna Wiedemann, the
daughter of a ship-owner in Dundee. Mr. Wiedemann was a German of Hamburg, who had married
a Scotch lady; and thus, on his maternal side, the poet had mingled Scotch and German ancestry.
The new household established itself in Southampton Street, Camberwell, and there were born
their two children, Robert, on May 7, 1812, and on January 7, 1814, Sarah Anna, who came to
be known as Sarianna through all her later life.

The poet's father was not only an efficient financier, but he was also a man of scholarly culture
and literary tastes. He was a lover of the classics, and was said to have known by heart the
first book of the Iliad, and the Odes of Horace. There is a legend that he often soothed his
little son to sleep by humming to him an ode of Anacreon. He wrote verse, he was a very clever
draughtsman, and he was a collector of rare books and prints. Mr. W. J. Stillman, in his "Autobiography
of a Journalist," refers to the elder Browning, whom he knew in his later years, as "a serene,
untroubled soul,... as gentle as a gentle woman, a man to whom, it seemed to me, no moral conflict
could ever have arisen to cloud his frank acceptance of life as he found it come to him....
His unworldliness had not a flaw." In Browning's poem entitled "Development" (in "Asolando")
he gives this picture of his father and of his own childhood:

  "My Father was a scholar and knew Greek.
  When I was five years old, I asked him once
  'What do you read about?'
                           'The siege of Troy.'
  'What is a siege, and what is Troy?'
                                      Whereat
  He piled up chairs and tables for a town,
  Set me a-top for Priam, called our cat
  --Helen, enticed away from home (he said)
  By wicked Paris, who couched somewhere close
  Under the footstool....

     *       *       *       *       *

  This taught me who was who and what was what;
  So far I rightly understood the case
  At five years old; a huge delight it proved
  And still proves--thanks to that instructor sage
  My Father...."

The poet's mother was a true gentlewoman, characterized by fervent religious feeling, delicacy
of perception, and a great love for music. She was reared in the Scottish kirk, and her husband
in the Church of England, but they both connected themselves after their marriage with an "Independent"
body that held their meetings in York Street, where the Robert Browning Hall now stands. They
were, however, greatly attached to the Rev. Henry Melvill (later Canon at St. Paul's), whose
evening service they habitually attended. While the poet's mother had little training in music,
she was a natural musician, and was blessed with that keen, tremulous susceptibility to musical
influence that was so marked a trait in her son. William Sharp pictures a late afternoon, when,
playing softly to herself in the twilight, she was startled to hear a sound in the room. Play!'"

The elder Browning was an impassioned lover of medieval legend and story. He was deeply familiar
with Paracelsus, with Faust, and with many of the Talmudic tales. His library was large and
richly stored,--the house, indeed, "crammed with books," in which the boy browsed about at
his own will. It was the best of all possible educations, this atmosphere of books. And the
wealth of old engravings and prints fascinated the child. He would sit among these before a
glowing fire, while from the adjoining room floated strains "of a wild Gaelic lament, with
its insistent falling cadences." It is recorded as his mother's chief happiness,--"her hour
of darkness and solitude and music." Of such fabric are poetic impressions woven. The atmosphere
was what Emerson called the "immortal ichor." The boy was companioned by the "liberating gods."
Something mystic and beautiful beckoned to him, and incantations, unheard by the outer sense,
thronged about him, pervading the air. The lad began to recast in English verse the Odes of
Horace. From his school, on holiday afternoons, he sought a lonely spot, elm-shaded, where
he could dimly discern London in the distance, with the gleam of sunshine on the golden cross
of St. Paul's,--lying for hours on the grass whence, perchance, he

  "Saw distant gates of Eden gleam
  And did not dream it was a dream."

Meantime the boy read Junius, Voltaire, Walpole's Letters, the "Emblems" of Quarles (a book
that remained as a haunting influence all his life), and Mandeville's "Fable of the Bees."
The first book of his own purchase was a copy of Ossian's poems, and his initial effort in
literary creation was in likeness of the picturesque imaginations that appealed with peculiar
fascination to his mind.

"The world of books is still the world," wrote Mrs. Browning in "Aurora Leigh," and this was
the world of Robert Browning's early life. The genesis of many of his greatest poems can be
traced directly to this atmosphere of books, and their constant use and reference in his childhood.
Literature and life, are, indeed, so absolutely interpenetrated and so interdependent that
they can almost invariably be contemplated as cause and effect, each reacting upon the other
in determining sequences. By the magic of some spiritual alchemy, reading is transmuted into
the qualities that build up character, and these qualities, in turn, determine the continued
choice of books, so that selection and result perpetuate themselves, forming an unceasing contribution
to the nature of life. If with these qualities is united the kindling imagination, the gift
that makes its possessor the creative artist, the environment of books and perpetual reference
to them act as a torch that ignites the divine fire. Browning's early stimulus owes much, not
only to the book-loving father, but to his father's brother, his uncle Reuben Browning, who
was a classical scholar and who took great interest in the boy. Preserved to the end of the
poet's life was a copy of the Odes of Horace, in translation, given to him as a lad of twelve,
with his uncle's autograph inscription on the fly-leaf. This was the translation made by Christopher
Smart, whose "Song of David" soon became one of the boy's favorites, and it is curious to trace
how, more than sixty years later, Browning embodied Smart in his "Parleyings with Certain People
of Importance in their Day," as one with whom

            "... truth found vent
  In words for once with you...."

Browning, with the poet's instant insight, read the essential story of his boyhood into the lines:

          "... Dreaming, blindfold led
  By visionary hand, did soul's advance
  Precede my body's, gain inheritance
  Of fact by fancy...?"

No transcription of the poet's childhood could even suggest the fortunate influences surrounding
him that did not emphasize the rare culture and original power of his father. The elder Browning
was familiar with old French and with both Spanish and Italian literature. "His wonderful store
of information might really be compared to an inexhaustible mine," said one who knew him well.

It is easy to see how out of such an atmosphere the future poet drew unconsciously the power
to weave his "magic web" of such poems as the "Parleyings," "Abt Vogler," "Ferishtah's Fancies,"
and was lured on into that realm of marvelous creation out of which sprang his transcendent
masterpiece, "The Ring and the Book."

The elder Browning's impassioned love of books was instanced by the curious fact that he could
go in the dark to his library, and out of many hundreds of volumes select some particular one
to which conversational reference had incidentally been made regarding some point which he
wished to verify. He haunted all the old book-stalls in London, and knew their contents better
than did their owners.

Books are so intimately associated with the very springs of both character and achievement
that no adequate idea of the formative influences of the life and poetry of Robert Browning
could be gained without familiarity with this most determining and conspicuous influence of
his boyhood. The book with which a man has lived becomes an essential factor in his growth.
"None of us yet know," said Ruskin, "for none of us have yet been taught in early youth, what
fairy palaces we may build of beautiful thought, proof against all adversity, bright fancies,
satisfied memories, noble histories, faithful sayings, treasure-houses of precious and restful
thoughts,... houses built without hands for our souls to live in." These houses for the soul,
built in thought, will be transposed into outer form and semblance.

There is a nebulous but none the less pernicious tradition that great literature is formidable,
and presents itself as a task rather than as a privilege to the reader. Devotion to the best
books has been regarded as something of a test of mental endurance, for which the recompense,
if not the antidote, must be sought in periods of indulgence in the frivolous and the sensational.
Never was there a more fatal misconception. It is the inconsequential, the crude, the obtuse,
that are dull in literature, as in life; and stupidity in various languages might well be entitled
to rank among the Seven Deadly Sins of Dante. Even in the greatest literature there is much
that the child may easily learn to appreciate and to love.

  "Great the Master
  And sweet the Magic"

that opens the golden door of literary stimulus. Books are to the mind as is food to the body.
Emerson declares that the poet is the only teller of news, and Mrs. Browning pronounced poets as

  "The only truth-tellers now left to God."

Familiarity with noble thought and beautiful expression influences the subconscious nature
to an incalculable degree, and leads "the spirit finely touched" on "to all fine issues."

Browning lived in this stimulating atmosphere. He warmed his hands at the divine fire; and
the fact that all this richness of resource stimulated rather than stifled him is greatly to
the credit of his real power. Favorable surroundings and circumstances did not serve him as
a cushion on which to go to sleep, but rather as the pedestal on which he might climb to loftier
altitudes. It was no lotus-eating experience into which the lad was lulled, but the vital activity
of the life of creative thought. The Heavenly Powers are not invariably, even if frequently,
sought in sorrow only, and in the mournful midnight hours. There are natures that grow by affluence
as well as by privation, and that develop their best powers in sunshine.

"Even in a palace life can be well lived," said Marcus Aurelius. The spirit formed to dwell
in the starry spaces is not allured to the mere enjoyment of the senses, even when material
comfort and intellectual luxuries may abound. Not that the modest abundance of the elder Browning's
books and pictures could take rank as intellectual luxury. It was stimulus, not satiety, that
these suggested.

Pictures and painters had their part, too, in the unconscious culture that surrounded the future
poet. London in that day afforded little of what would be called art; the National Gallery
was not opened until Browning was in his young manhood; the Tate and other modern galleries
were then undreamed of. But, to the appropriating temperament, one picture may do more than
a city full of galleries might for another, and to the small collection of some three or four
hundred paintings in the Dulwich Gallery, Browning was indebted for great enjoyment, and for
the art that fostered his sympathetic appreciation. In after years he referred to his gratitude
for being allowed its privileges when under the age (fourteen) at which these were supposed
to be granted. Small as was the collection, it was representative of the Italian and Spanish,
the French and the Dutch schools, as well as of the English, and the boy would fix on some
one picture and sit before it for an hour, lost in its suggestion. It was the more imaginative
art that enchained him. In later years, speaking of these experiences in a letter to Miss Barrett,
he wrote of his ecstatic contemplation of "those two Guidos, the wonderful Rembrandt's 'Jacob's
Vision,' such a Watteau...." An old engraving from Correggio, in his father's home, was one
of the sources of inspiration of Browning's boyhood. The story fascinated him; he never tired
of asking his father to repeat it, and something of its truth so penetrated into his consciousness
that in later years he had the old print hung in his room that it might be before him as he
wrote. It became to him, perhaps, one of

            "the unshaped images that lie
  Within my mind's cave."

The profound significance of the picture evidently haunted him, as is made evident by a passage
in "Pauline" that opens:

  "But I must never grieve whom wing can waft
  Far from such thoughts--as now. Andromeda!
  And she is with me; years roll, I shall change,
  But change can touch her not--so beautiful
  With her fixed eyes...."

Is there gained another glimpse of Browning's boyhood in those lines in "Pauline"?:

  "I am made up of an intensest life,
  Of a most clear idea of consciousness
  Of self, distinct from all its qualities,
  From all affections, passions, feelings, powers."

The various and complex impressions, influences, and shaping factors of destiny that any biographer
discerns in the formative years of his subject are as indecipherable as a palimpsest, and as
little to be classified as the contents of Pandora's box; nor is it on record that the man
himself can look into his own history and rightly appraise the relative values of these. Nothing,
certainly, could be more remote from the truth than the reading of autobiographic significance
into any stray line a poet may write; for imagination is frequently more real than reality.
Yet many of the creations of after life may trace their germination to some incident or impression.
William Sharp offers a beautiful and interesting instance of one of these when he ascribes
the entrancing fantasy of "The Flight of the Duchess" to a suggestion made on the poet's mind
as a child on a Guy Fawkes day, when he followed across the fields a woman singing a strange
song, whose refrain was: "Following the Queen of the Gypsies, O!" The haunting line took root
in his memory and found its inflorescence in that memorable poem.

It was not conducive to poetic fancy when the lad was placed in the school of a Mr. Ready,
at Peckham, where he solaced himself for the rules and regulations which he abhorred by writing
little plays, and persuading his school-fellows to act in them with him.

Browning's first excursion into Shelley's poems, brought home to him one night as a gift from
his mother, was in one of the enchanting evenings of May; where, at the open window by which
he sat, there floated in the melody of two nightingales, one in a laburnum, "heavy with its
weight of gold," and the other in a copper-beech, at the opposite side of the garden. Such
an hour mirrors itself unconsciously in a poet's memory, and affords, in future years, "such
stuff as dreams are made of."

Byron, who, as Mazzini says, "led the genius of Britain on a pilgrimage throughout all Europe,"
stamped an impress upon the youthful Browning that may be traced throughout his entire life.
There was something in the genius of Byron that acted as an enormous force on the nature in
response to it, that transformed nebulous and floating ideals and imaginings into hope and
resolution, that burned away barriers and revealed truth. By its very nature influence is determined
as much by the receiver as by the inspirer, and if a light is applied to a torch, the torch,
too, must be prepared to ignite, or there will be no blaze.

  "A deft musician does the breeze become
    Whenever an Æolian harp it finds;
  Hornpipe and hurdygurdy both are dumb
    Unto the most musicianly of winds."

The fire of Byron, the spirituality of Shelley, illuminated that world of drift and dream in
which Robert Browning dwelt; and while Shelley, with his finer spirit, his glorious, impassioned
imagination,

  "A creature of impetuous breath,"

incited poetic ardors and unmeasured rapture of vision, Byron penetrated his soul with a certain
effective energy that awakened in him creative power. The spell of Shelley's poetry acted upon
Browning as a vision revealed of beauty and radiance. For Shelley himself, who, as Tennyson
said, "did yet give the world another heart and new pulses," Browning's feeling was even more
intense.

In the analysis of Shelley's poetic nature Browning offers the critical reader a key to his
own. He asserts that it is the presence of the highest faculty, even though less developed,
that gives rank to nature, rather than a lower faculty more developed. Although it was in later
years that the impression Shelley made upon his boyhood found adequate expression in his noted
essay, the spell reflected itself in "Pauline," and is to be distinctly traced in many of his
poems throughout his entire life. He was aware from the first of that peculiarly kindling quality
in Shelley, the flash of life in his work:

  "He spurreth men, he quickeneth
       To splendid strife."

Under the title of "Incondita" was collected a group of the juvenile verses of Robert Browning,
whose special claim to interest is in the revelation of the impress made upon the youth by
Byron and Shelley.

Among the early friends of the youthful poet were Alfred Domett (the "Waring" of his future
poem), and Joseph Arnould, who became a celebrated judge in India.

With Browning there was never any question about his definite vocation as a poet. "Pauline"
was published in 1833, before he had reached his twenty-first birthday. Rejected by publishers,
it was brought out at the expense of his aunt, Mrs. Silverthorne; and his father paid for the
publication of "Paracelsus," "Sordello," and for the first eight parts of "Bells and Pomegranates."
On the appearance of "Pauline," it was reviewed by Rev. William Johnson Fox, as the "work of
a poet and a genius." Allan Cunningham and other reviewers gave encouraging expressions. The
design of "Pauline" is that spiritual drama to which Browning was always temperamentally drawn.
It is supposed to be the confessions and reminiscences of a dying man, and while it is easy
to discern its crudeness and inconsistencies, there are in it, too, many detached passages
of absolute and permanent value.

Mr. Browning certainly gave hostages to poetic art when he produced "Pauline," in which may
be traced the same conceptions of life as those more fully and clearly presented in "Paracelsus"
and "Sordello." It embodies the conviction which is the very essence and vital center of all
Browning's work--that ultimate success is attained through partial failures. From first to
last Browning regards life as an adventure of the soul, which sinks, falls, rises, recovers
itself, relapses into faithlessness to its higher powers, yet sees the wrong and aims to retrieve
it; gropes through darkness to light; and though "tried, troubled, tempted," never yields to
alien forces and ignominious failure. The soul, being divine, must achieve divinity at last.
That is the crystallization of the message of Browning.

The poem "Pauline," lightly as Mr. Browning himself seemed in after life to regard it, becomes
of tremendous importance in the right approach to the comprehension of his future work. It
reveals to us in what manner the youthful poet discerned "the Gleam." Like Tennyson, he felt
"the magic of Merlin,"--of that spirit of the poetic ideal that bade him follow.

  "The Master whisper'd
  'Follow The Gleam.'"

And what unguessed sweetness and beauty of life and love awaited the poet in the unfolding years!

CHAPTER II

1806-1832

  "Here's the garden she walked across.

     *       *       *       *       *

  Roses ranged in a valiant row,
  I will never think she passed you by!"

The literature of childhood presents nothing more beautiful than the records of the early years
of Elizabeth Barrett. Fragmentary though they be, yet, gathered here and there, they fall into
a certain consecutive unity, from which one may construct a mosaic-like picture of the daily
life of the little girl who was born on March 6, 1806, in Coxhoe Hall, Durham, whence the family
soon removed to Hope End, a home of stately beauty and modest luxury. There were brothers to
the number of eight; and two sisters, Henrietta and Arabel, all younger than herself. Edward,
the eldest son, especially cared for Elizabeth, holding her in tender and almost reverential
love, and divining, almost from his infancy, her exquisite gifts. Apparently, the eldest sister
was also greatly beloved by the whole troop of the younger brothers,--Charles, Samuel, George,
Henry, Alfred, and the two younger, who were named Septimus and Octavius.

With three daughters and eight sons, the household did not lack in merriment and overflowing
life; and while the little Elizabeth was born to love books and dreams, and assimilated learning
as naturally as she played with her dolls, she was no prodigy, set apart because of fantastic
qualities, but an eager, earnest little maid, who, although she read Homer at eight years of
age, yet read him with her doll clasped closely in one hand, and who wrote her childish rhymes
as unconsciously as a bird sings. It is a curious coincidence that this love of the Greeks,
as to history, literature, and mythology, characterized the earliest childhood of both Robert
Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. Pope's Homer was the childish favorite of each.

The house at Hope End has been described by Lady Carmichael as "a luxurious home standing in
a lovely park, among trees and sloping hills," and the earliest account that has been preserved
of the little girl reveals her sitting on a hassock, propped against the wall, in a lofty room
called "Elizabeth's chamber," with a stained glass oriel window through which golden gleams
of light fell, lingering on the long curls that drooped over her face as she sat absorbed in
a book. She was also an eager worker in her garden, the children all being given a plot to
cultivate for themselves, and Elizabeth won special fame for her bower of white roses.

There are few data about the parents of Elizabeth Barrett, and the legal name, Moulton-Barrett,
by which she signed her marriage register and by which her father is commonly known, has been
a source of some confused statements. Her father, Edward Barrett Moulton, came into an inheritance
of property by which he was required to add the name of Barrett again, hyphenating it, and
was thus known as Edward Barrett Moulton-Barrett. He married Mary Graham Clarke, a native of
Newcastle-on-the-Tyne, a woman of gentle loveliness, who died on October 1, 1828. Mr. Moulton-Barrett
lived until 1860, his death occurring only a year before that of his famous daughter, who was
christened Elizabeth Barrett Moulton, and who thus became, after her father's added name, Elizabeth
Barrett Moulton-Barrett, although, except when a legal signature was necessary, she signed
her name as Elizabeth Barrett. The family are still known by the hyphenated name; and Mrs.
Browning's namesake niece, a very scholarly and charming young woman, now living in Rome, is
known as Elizabeth Moulton-Barrett. She is the daughter of Mrs. Browning's youngest brother,
Alfred, and her mother, who is still living, is the original of Mrs. Browning's poem, "A Portrait."
While Miss Moulton-Barrett never saw her aunt (having been born after her death), she is said
to resemble Mrs. Browning both in temperament and character. By a curious coincidence the Barrett
family, like the Brownings, had been for generations the owners of estates in the West Indies,
and it is said that Elizabeth Barrett was the first child of their family to be born in England
for more than a hundred years.

Her father, though born in Jamaica, was brought to England as a young child, and he was the
ward of Chief Baron Lord Abinger. He was sent to Harrow, and afterwards to Cambridge, but he
did not wait to finish his university course, and married when young. One of his sisters was
painted by Sir Thomas Lawrence, and this portrait is now in the possession of Octavius Moulton-Barrett,
Esq., of the Isle of Wight.

Elizabeth's brother Edward was but two years her junior. It was he who was drowned at Torquay,
almost before her eyes, and who is commemorated in her "De Profundis." Of the other brothers
only three lived to manhood. When Elizabeth was three years of age, the family removed to Hope
End in Herefordshire, a spacious and stately house with domes and minarets embowered in a grove
of ancient oaks.

Here all her girlhood was passed, and it was in the garden of Hope End that she stood, holding
up an apron filled with flowers, when that lovely picture was painted representing her as a
little girl of nine or ten years of age. Much of rather apochryphal myth and error has grown
up about Mrs. Browning's early life. However gifted, she was in no wise abnormal, and she galloped
on Moses, her black pony, through the Herefordshire lanes, and offered pagan sacrifices to
some imaginary Athene, "with a bundle of sticks from the kitchen fire and a match begged from
an indulgent housemaid."

When she was eleven or twelve, she amused herself by writing a great epic in four books, called
"The Battle of Marathon," which possessed her fancy. Her father took great pride in this, and,
"bent upon spoiling me," she laughingly said in later years, had fifty copies of this childish
achievement printed, and there is one in the British Museum library to-day. No creator of prose
romance could invent more curious coincidences than those of the similar trend of fancy that
is seen between the childhood of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. Her "Battle of Marathon"
revealed how the Greek stories enchanted her fancy, and how sensitive was her ear in the imitation
of the rhythm caught from Pope. This led her to the delighted study of Greek, that she might
read its records at first hand; and Greek drew her into Latin, and from this atmosphere of
classic lore, which, after all, is just as interesting to the average child as is the (too
usual) juvenile pabulum, she drew her interest in thought and dream. The idyllic solitude in
which she lived fostered all these mental excursions. Beautiful, beautiful they were, and I
lived among them till I had passed twenty by several years."

Mr. Moulton-Barrett was one of the earliest of social reformers. So much has been said, and,
alas! with too much justice, it must be conceded, of his eccentric tyranny, his monomania,--for
it amounted to that, in relation to the marriage of any of his children regarding which his
refusal was insanely irrational,--that it is pleasant to study him for a moment in his more
normal life. In Ledbury, the nearest village, he would hold meetings for the untaught people,
read and pray with them, and this at a period when for a man of wealth to concern himself in
social betterment was almost unknown. He was truly "the friend of the unfriended poor," and
by his side, with wondering, upturned, childish eyes, was the little Elizabeth, an ardent and
sympathetic companion. Until quite recently there were still living those who remembered Mr.
Barrett as this intelligent and active helper; and in the parish church is a monument to him,
by the side of a gloriously decorated tomb of the fourteenth century, with an inscription to
his memory that vividly recalls the work of one who strove to revive the simple faith in God
that has always, in all nations and in all centuries, met every real need of life.

Mrs. Barrett, a sweet and gentle woman, without special force of character, died when Elizabeth
was but twenty years of age; and it was some five years before her mother's death that Elizabeth
met with the accident, from the fall from her saddle when trying to mount her pony, that caused
her life-long delicacy of health. Her natural buoyancy of spirits, however, never failed, and
she was endowed with a certain resistless energy which is quite at variance with the legendary
traditions that she was a nervous invalid.

Hardly less than Browning in his earliest youth, was Elizabeth Barrett "full of an intensest
life." Her Italian master one day told her that there was an unpronounceable English word that
expressed her exactly, but which, as he could not give in English, he would express in his
own tongue,--testa lunga. Relating this to Mr. Browning in one of her letters, she says: "Of
course the signor meant headlong!--and now I have had enough to tame me, and might be expected
to stand still in my stall. But you see I do not. Headlong I was at first, and headlong I continue,--precipitately
rushing forward through all manner of nettles and briers instead of keeping the path; guessing
at the meaning of unknown words instead of looking into the dictionary,--tearing open letters,
and never untying a string,--and expecting everything to be done in a minute, and the thunder
to be as quick as the lightning."

Impetuous, vivacious, with an inimitable sense of humor, full of impassioned vitality,--this
was the real Elizabeth Barrett, whose characteristics were in no wise changed during her entire
life. Always was she

  "A creature of impetuous breath,"

full of vivacious surprises, and witty repartee.

Hope End was in the near vicinity of Eastnor Castle, a country seat of the Somersets; it is
to-day one of the present homes of Lady Henry Somerset, and there are family records of long,
sunny days that the young girl-poet passed at the castle, walking on the terraces that lead
down to the still water, or lying idly in the boat as the ripples of the little lake lapped
against the reeds and rushes that grew on the banks. In the castle library is preserved to-day
an autograph copy of the first volume of Elizabeth Barrett's poems, published when she was
twenty, and containing that didactic "Essay on Mind" written when she was but seventeen, and
of which she afterward said that it had "a pertness and a pedantry which did not even then
belong to the character of the author," and which she regretted, she went on to say, "even
more than the literary defectiveness." This volume was presented by her to a member of the
Somerset family whose name is inscribed over that of her own signature.

During these years Hugh Stuart Boyd, the blind scholar, was living in Great Malvern, and one
of Miss Barrett's greatest pleasures was to visit and read Greek with him. He was never her
"tutor," in the literal sense, as has so widely been asserted, for her study of Greek was made
with her brother Edward, under his tutor, a Mr. MacSweeney; but she read and talked of Greek
literature (especially of the Christian poets) with him, and she loved to record her indebtedness
to him "for many happy hours." She wrote of him as one "enthusiastic for the good and the beautiful,
and one of the most simple and upright of human beings." The memory of her discussions with
him is embalmed in her poem, "Wine of Cyprus," which was addressed to him:

  "And I think of those long mornings
    Which my thought goes far to seek,
  When, betwixt the folio's turnings,
    Solemn flowed the rhythmic Greek."

Elizabeth Barrett was more than a student, however scholarly, of Greek. She had a temperamental
affinity for the Greek poets, and such translations as hers of "Prometheus Bound" and Bion's
"Lament for Adonis," identify her with the very life itself of Æschylus and Bion. In her essay
on "The Greek Christian Poets" we find her saying: "We want the touch of Christ's hand upon
our literature, as it touched other dead things ... Something of a yearning after this may
be seen among the Greek Christian poets,... religious poets of whom the universal church and
the world's literature would gladly embrace more names than can be counted to either."

All her work of these early years is in that same delicate microscopic handwriting of her later
life. She laughingly professed a theory that "an immense amount of physical energy must go
to the making of those immense, sweeping hand-writings achieved by some persons." She instanced
that of Landor, "who writes as if he had the sky for a copy-book and dotted his i's in proportion."

Poetry as a serious art was the most earnest object in the life of Elizabeth Barrett. To her
poetry meant "life in life."

  "Art's a service,--mark."

The poetic vocation could hardly be said to be so much a conscious and definite choice with
her as a predetermined destiny, and still it was both. The possibility of not being a poet
could never have occurred to her. There could have been as little question of Beethoven's being
other than a musician or of Raphael as being other than a painter. In poetry Elizabeth Barrett
recognized the most potent form of service; and she held that poetic art existed for the sake
of human co-operation with the Divine purposes.

The opening chapters of her life in the lovely seclusion of Hope End closed in 1832 with the
removal of the family to Sidmouth in Devonshire. Here they were bestowed in a house which had
been occupied by the Grand Duchess Helena. It commanded a splendid sea view, on which four
drawing-room windows looked out, and there were green hills and trees behind. Henrietta Barrett
took long walks, Elizabeth accompanying her sister, mounted on her donkey. The brothers and
sisters were all fond of boating and passed much time on the water. They would row as far as
Dawlish, ten miles distant, and back; and after the five o'clock dinner there were not infrequently
moonlight excursions on the sea. During these first months at Sidmouth Miss Barrett read Bulwer's
novels, which she asserts "quite delighted" her; as she found in them "all the dramatic talent
which Scott has, and all the passion which he has not." Bulwer seemed to her, also, "a far
more profound discriminator of character" than Scott. She read Mrs. Trollope, "that maker of
books," whose work she characterized as not novels but "libels." She found in Mrs. Trollope
"neither the delicacy nor the candor which constitute true nobility of mind," and thought that
her talent formed but "a scanty veil to shadow her other defects."

Miss Barrett grew to love Sidmouth, with its walks on the seashore; and letters, reading, poetic
production, and family interests filled the time. Here, too, she found time to enter on a task
dear to her, the translation of the "Prometheus Bound" of Æschylus.

Some years later, however, she entirely revised this early translation, of which she wrote
to Hugh Stuart Boyd that it was "as cold as Caucasus, and flat as the neighboring plain," and
that "a palinodia, a recantation," was necessary to her. In her preface to the later translation
she begged that her reader would forgive her English for not being Greek, and herself for not
being Æschylus.

CHAPTER III

1833-1841

                  "... I press God's lamp
  Close to my breast; its splendor, soon or late,
  Will pierce the gloom; I shall emerge one day."

From Camberwell to St. Petersburg was somewhat of a transition. This was Mr. Browning's initial
excursion into a wider world of realities, as distinguished from that mirage which rises in
the world of dreams and mental nebulæ. "To know the universe itself as a road,--as many roads,"
is the way in which the beckoning future prefigures itself to the artist temperament.

  "All around him Patmos lies
  Who hath spirit-gifted eyes."

The eyes thus touched with the chrism of poetic art see the invisible which is peopled with
forms unseen to others, and which offers a panorama of living drama. It is the poet who overhears
the "talk of the gods," and when he shall report

  "Some random word they say,"

he becomes

          "... the fated man of men
  Whom the ages must obey."

This was the undreamed destiny hovering over the young poet, luring him on like a guiding cloud
which became a pillar of fire by night.

Among his London friends was the Chevalier George de Benkhausen, the Russian Consul-General,
who, being suddenly summoned to Russia on some secret mission of state, invited Browning to
accompany him. Browning went "nominally in the character of secretary," Mrs. Orr says, and
they fared forth on March 1, by steamer to Rotterdam, and then journeyed more than fifteen
hundred miles by diligence, drawn by relays of galloping horses. The expedition was to Browning
a rich mine of poetic material. The experience sank into the subconsciousness as seed to await
fruition. In his "Ivan Ivanovitch," where is seen

  "This highway broad and straight e'en from the Neva's mouth
  To Moscow's gates of gold,"

and in which the unending pine forests rising from the snow-covered ground are so vividly pictured;
and in "Colombe's Birthday," where is seen the region of the heroine,--

                           "Castle Ravestein--
  That sleeps out trustfully its extreme age
  On the Meuse' quiet bank, where she lived queen
  Over the water-buds,..."

and the place

        "... when he hid his child
  Among the river-flowers at Ravestein,"

it can be seen how all this country impressed his imagination. Professor Hall Griffin finds
in the fifth book of "Sordello" an unmistakable description of the most famous and oldest portrait
of Charlemagne, which hangs in the Council Hall of the Rath-haus, in Aix, which Mr. Browning
saw on this trip. During these three months he saw something of Russian society, and on the
breaking up of the ice in the Neva in spring, witnessed the annual ceremony of the Czar's drinking
the first glass of water from it. Much of the gorgeous, barbaric splendor of Russian fairs
and booths, "with droshkies and fish-pies" on the one hand, and stately palaces on the other,
haunted him, and reflected themselves in several of his poems. Especially did the Russian music
and strains of folk-song linger in his memory for all the after years.

On his return from Russia Browning had some fancy for entering on a diplomatic career, and
was momentarily disappointed at not receiving an appointment to Persia, which he had in mind;
fortunately for him and for the world he was held to the orbit of his poetic gift. Diplomacy
has an abundance of recruits without devastating poetic genius to furnish them. The winter
of 1834 found him deeply absorbed in "Paracelsus." This poem is dedicated to the Marquis Amédée
de Ripert-Monclar, who was a great friend of Browning at this time. The Marquis was four years
his senior; he was in England as a private agent for the Duchesse de Berri and the Royalist
party in France to the English government. The subject of the poem is said to have been suggested
by the Marquis, although the fact that all this medieval lore had been familiar to Browning
from his earliest childhood must be accounted the pre-determining factor in its creation.

Both "Paracelsus" and "Sordello" seem to spring, as by natural poetic evolution, from "Pauline";
all three of these poems are, in varying degree, a drama of the soul's progress. They all suggest,
and "Paracelsus," especially, in a great degree embodies, the Hegelian philosophy; yet Mr.
Barrett Browning expresses his rather positive conviction that his father never read Hegel
at any period of his life. Dr. Corson regarded these early poems of Browning as of peculiar
value in showing his attitude toward things. "We see in what direction the poet has set his
face," said Dr. Corson, "what his philosophy of life is, what soul-life means with him, what
regeneration means, what edification means in its deepest sense of building up within us the
spiritual temple." Dr. Corson further illuminated this attitude of the poet by pointing out
that he emphasized the approach to perfection as something that cannot be brought out through
what is born and resides in the brain; but it must be by "the attracting power of magnetic
personalities, the ultimate, absolute personality being the God-man, Christ. The human soul
is regarded in Browning's poetry," continued Dr. Corson, "as a complexly organized, individualized,
divine force, destined to gravitate toward the Infinite. How is this force with its numberless
checks and counter-checks, its centripetal and centrifugal tendencies, best determined in its
necessarily oblique way? How much earthly ballast must it carry to keep it sufficiently steady,
and how little, that it may not be weighed down with materialistic heaviness?" Incredibly enough,
in the revelations of the retrospective view, "Paracelsus" made little impression on the literary
critics of the day; the Athenæum devoting to it less space even than to "the anonymous Pauline,"
while the "Philip van Artevelde" of Henry Taylor (now hardly remembered) received fifteen columns
of tribute, in which the critic confided to the public his enthusiastic estimate of that production.
The one gleam of consolation to the young poet in all this general neglect or unfavorable comment
was that of a three-column article from the pen of John Forster in the Examiner, then conducted
by Leigh Hunt, and on whose staff were Sergeant Talfourd and Proctor (Barry Cornwall) beside
Forster, who was then a rising young journalist of twenty-three, only one month the senior
of Browning. But Forster spoke with no uncertain note; rather, with authority, and in this
critique he said:

    "Since the publication of 'Philip van Artevelde' we have met with no
    such evidences of poetical genius ... and we may safely predict for
    its author a brilliant career, if he continues true to the present
    promise of his genius."

The immediate effect of the publication of "Paracelsus" was of a social rather than of a literary
character, for something in it seemed magnetic to the life of the day, and the young poet found
himself welcomed by a brilliant literary circle. He met Wordsworth and Walter Savage Landor,
Dickens, Monckton Milnes (later Lord Houghton), Proctor (Barry Cornwall), Horne, Sergeant Talfourd,
Leigh Hunt, and others. Hunt was then domiciled in Cheyne Row, in close proximity to the Carlyles,
with whom Browning had already formed a friendship.

Rev. William Johnson Fox, one of Browning's earliest friends, was at this time living at Craven
Hill, Bayswater, and on an evening when Macready had dined with him, Browning came in. This
evening (November 27, 1835) is noted in Macready's diary, and after speaking of Mr. Fox as
an "original and profound thinker," he adds:

    "Mr. Robert Browning, the author of 'Paracelsus,' came in after
    dinner; I was very much pleased to meet him. His face is full of
    intelligence.... I took Mr. Browning on, and requested to be allowed
    to improve my acquaintance with him. He expressed himself warmly, as
    gratified by the proposal, wished to send me his book. We exchanged
    cards, and parted."

On New Year's Eve Mr. Macready invited a little house party, among whom were Forster and Browning.
"Mr. Browning was very popular with the whole party," writes Mr. Macready in his journal; "his
simple and enthusiastic manner engaged attention and won golden opinions from all present;
he looks and speaks more like a youthful poet than any man I ever saw."

Browning's personal appearance, "slim, and dark, and very handsome," as Mary Cowden Clarke
said, is pictured by many of his friends of that time.

Macready was not only a notable figure on the stage at this period, but he was also (what every
great actor must be) a man of thought, intense sensibility, and wide culture. Soon after Macready
had appeared in Talfourd's "Ion" (the première being on the playwright's birthday), Talfourd
gave a supper at his house, at which Browning for the first time met Wordsworth and Landor.
Macready himself sat between these two illustrious poets, with Browning opposite to him. The
guests included Ellen Tree, Miss Mitford, and Forster. Macready, recording this night in his
diary, writes of "Wordsworth who pinned me." Landor, it seems, talked of constructing drama,
and said he "had not the faculty," that he "could only set persons to talking; all the rest
was chance." But an ever remembered moment came for the young poet when the host proposed a
toast to the author of "Paracelsus," and Wordsworth, rising, said: "I am proud to drink to
your health, Mr. Browning," and Landor bowed with his inimitable, courteous grace, raising
his glass to his lips. For some years, whenever Wordsworth visited London, Forster invited
Browning to meet him. While Wordsworth's political attitude did not please the young disciple
of Shelley, for Landor he conceived the most profound admiration and sympathetic affection.
It was a striking sequel to this youthful attraction that in Landor's desolate old age it should
be Browning who tenderly cared for him, and surrounded his last days with unfailing comfort
and solicitude.

At this memorable supper, just as Browning was about to take his leave, Macready laid his hand
on the young man's shoulder, saying earnestly: "Write a play for me, and keep me from going
to America." The thought appealed to the poet, who replied: "Shall it be historical and English?
What do you say to 'Strafford' for a subject?" Forster was then bringing out his biography
of Strafford, on which Browning had assisted, so that the theme had already engaged his imagination.
A few days after the supper Macready records in his diary receiving a note from Browning and
adds: "What can I say upon it? It was a tribute which remunerated me for the annoyances and
cares of years; it was one of the very highest, may I not say the highest, honor I have through
life received."

A certain temperamental sympathy between the two men is evident, though Macready sounded no
such fathomless depths as lay, however unsuspected, in Browning; but Macready gives many indications
of poetic sympathies, as, for instance, when he records in his diary how he had been looking
through Coleridge's translation of Wallenstein, "abounding with noble passages and beautiful
scenes," to see if it would lend itself to stage representation.

On November 19 of this autumn Macready notes in his journal that Browning came that night to
bring his tragedy of "Strafford," of which the fourth act was incomplete. "I requested him
to write in the plot of what was deficient," says Macready, and drove to the Garrick Club while
Browning wrote out this story. Later, there was a morning call from Browning, who gave him
an interesting old print of Richard, from some tapestry, and they talked of "La Vallière."
All the time we get glimpses of an interesting circle: Bulwer and Forster call, and they discuss
Cromwell; Bulwer's play of "Virginius" is in rehearsal; Macready acts Cardinal Wolsey; there
is a dinner at Lady Blessington's, where are met Lord Canterbury, Count D'Orsay, Bulwer, Trelawney,
and Proctor; there is a call on Miss Martineau, and meetings with Thackeray and Dickens; Kenyon
appears in the intersecting circles; Marston (the father of the blind poet) writes his play,
"The Patrician's Daughter"; Mr. Longfellow, "a Professor at one of the U. S. Universities,"
appears on the scene, and there is a dinner at which "Mr. and Mrs. N. P. Willis sat next to
Longfellow." On a night when Browning came with some alterations for "Strafford," a stranger
called, "saying he was a Greek, a great lover of the drama; I introduced Browning to him as
a great tragic poet," records Macready, "and the youth wrote down his name, telling us he was
setting off for Athens directly."

The rehearsals of "Strafford" came on, but Macready seems already to have had misgivings. "In
Shakespeare," he writes, "the great poet has only introduced such events as act on the individuals
concerned; but in Browning's play we have a long scene of passion--upon what? A plan destroyed,
a parliament dissolved...." It is easy to see how Browningesque this was; for to the poet no
events of the objective life were so real and significant as those of the purely mental drama
of thought, feeling, and purpose. The rehearsals were, however, gratifying to the author, it
seems, for Macready records in his diary (that recurs like the chorus in a Greek tragedy) that
he was happy "with the extreme delight Browning testified at the rehearsal of my part, which
he said to him was a full recompense for having written the play, as he had seen his utmost
hopes of character perfectly embodied." The play was performed at the Covent Garden Theater
on the night of May 3, 1837.

Both Edmund Gosse and William Sharp deny that Browning's plays failed on the stage; at all
events, with each attempt there were untoward circumstances which alone would have contributed
to or even doomed a play to a short tenure.

In 1886 "Strafford" was produced in London under the auspices of the Browning Society, and
the real power of the play surprised as well as deeply impressed the audiences who saw it.
But "Pauline," "Paracelsus," and "Strafford" all have a peculiar element of reminiscent importance,
if it may be so termed, in that they were the forerunners, the indications of the great work
to come.

There is no dramatic poem of Browning's that has not passages of superb acting effects, as
well as psychological fascinations for the thinker; and the future years were to touch him
with new power to produce work whose dramatic power lives in imperishable significance. "Strafford"
had a run of only five nights at this first time of its production; Macready received and accepted
an offer to go to America, and other things happened. Browning became absorbed in his "Sordello,"
and suddenly, on Good Friday of 1838, he sailed for Venice, "intending to finish my poem among
the scenes it describes," he wrote to John Robertson, who had been introduced to Browning by
Miss Martineau. On a sailing ship, bound for Trieste, the poet found himself the only passenger.
It was on this voyage, while between Gibraltar and Naples, that he wrote "How They Brought
the Good News from Ghent to Aix." It was written on deck, penciled on the fly-leaf of Bartoli's
De' Simboli trasportati al Morale. When Dr. Corson first visited Browning in 1881, in his London
home in Warwick Crescent, Browning showed his guest this identical copy of the book, with the
penciled poem on the fly-leaves, of which Dr. Corson said, in a private letter to a friend:

    "One book in the library I was particularly interested in,--Bartoli's
    Simboli, or, rather, in what the poet had written in pencil on its
    fly-leaves, front and back, namely, 'How they brought the good news
    from Ghent to Aix.'"

Dr. Corson added that he had been so often asked as to what this "good news" was, that he put
the question to Mr. Browning, who replied:

    "'I don't remember whether I had in my mind any in particular, when I
    wrote the poem'; and then, after a pause," continued Dr. Corson, "he
    said, with a dash of expression characteristic of him, 'Of course,
    very important news were carried between those two cities during that
    period.'"

In Mrs. Orr's biography of Browning she quotes a long letter written by him to Miss Haworth,
in the late summer of 1838, after his return from this Italian trip, in which he says:

    "You will see 'Sordello' in a trice, if the fagging fit holds. I did
    not write six lines while absent (except a scene in a play, jotted
    down as we sailed through the straits of Gibraltar), but I did hammer
    out some four, two of which are addressed to you,... I saw the most
    gorgeous and lavish sunset in the world.... I went to Trieste, then to
    Venice, then through Treviso, and Bassano to the mountains, delicious
    Asolo, all my places and castles you will see. Then to Vicenza, Padua,
    and Venice again. Then to Verona, Trent, Innspruck (the Tyrol),
    Munich, Salzburg, Frankfort and Mayence; down the Rhine to Cologne,
    then to Aix-le-Chapelle, Liège, and Antwerp; then home.... I saw very
    few Italians, 'to know,' that is. Those I did see I liked...."

It is related that the captain of the ship became so much attached to Browning that he offered
him a free passage to Constantinople; and that his friendly attraction to his youthful passenger
was such that on returning to England he brought to the poet's sister a gift of six bottles
of attar of roses. The poems of "Pippa Passes" and "In a Gondola" may be directly traced to
this visit, and Browning seemed so invigorated by it that his imagination was aflame with a
multitude of ideas at once.

Meanwhile "Paracelsus" was winning increasing appreciation. The poet did not escape the usual
sweeping conclusion generally put forth regarding any unusual work, that the author has made
extensive studies for it,--as if ideas and imagination drew their inspiration from the outer
world, and were solely to be appraised, as to their results, by the capacity for cramming.
So much cramming, so much genius! He who thus mistakes inspiration for industry certainly proves
how very remote is his mind from the former. With this marvelous work by a young man of twenty-three
the usual literary legends were set afloat, like thistledown in the air, which seem to have
floated and alighted everywhere, and which now, more than seventy-five years later, are apparently
still floating and alighting on the pens of various writers, to the effect that "Paracelsus"
is the result of "vast research among contemporary records," till the poem added another to
the Seven Labors of Hercules. As a matter of fact, and as has already been noted, Browning
had merely browsed about his father's library.

Dr. Berdoe points out that the real "Paracelsus" cannot be understood without considerable
excursions into the occult sciences, and he is quite right as to the illumination these provide,
in proportionate degree as they are acquired by the reader; as a matter of course they enlarge
his horizon, and offer him clues to unsuspected labyrinths; and so fine and complete is Dr.
Berdoe's own commentary on "Paracelsus" that it might not unduly be held as supplementary to
the reader's entire enjoyment of the poem. Dr. Berdoe notes that the Bishop of Spanheim, who
was the instructor of Paracelsus, defined "divine magic," as another name for alchemy, "and
lays down the great doctrine of all medieval occultism, as of all modern theosophy,--of a soul-power
equally operative in the material and the immaterial, in nature and in the consciousness of
man." The sympathetic reader of Browning's "Paracelsus" will realize, however, that the drama
he presents is spiritual, rather than occult. It is not the search for the possible mysteries,
or achievements of the crucible. It is the adventure of the soul, not the penetration into
the secrets of unknown elementals.

In the autumn of 1835 the Browning family removed from Camberwell to Hatcham. They bestowed
themselves in a spacious, delightful old house, with "long, low rooms," wherein the household
gods, inclusive of the six thousand books of the elder Browning's treasured library, found
abundant accommodation; and the outlook on the Surrey hills gratified them all. During these
years we catch a few glimpses of the poet's only sister, Sarianna, who was two years younger
than her brother, and quite as fond of listening to the conversation of an uncle, William Shergold
Browning, who had removed to Paris. Here he was connected with the Rothschild banking house,
and had achieved some distinction as the author of a "History of the Huguenots." He also wrote
two historical novels, entitled "Hoel Mar en Morven" and "Provost of Paris," and compiled one
of those harmless volumes entitled "Leisure Hours." It was this uncle who had brought about
the introduction of his nephew and Marquis Amédée de Ripert-Monclar, whose uncle, the Marquis
de Fortia, a member of the Institut, was a special friend of William Shergold Browning. In
later years a grandson of the Paris Browning, after graduating at Lincoln College, became Crown
prosecutor in New South Wales. He is known as Robert Jardine Browning, and he was on terms
of intimacy with his cousins, Robert and Sarianna, whom he often visited.

The family friendship with Carlyle was a source of great pleasure to Mrs. Browning, the poet's
mother, and there is on record a night when Carlyle and his brother dined with the Brownings
at Hatcham. Another family friend and habitué was the Rev. Archer Gurney, who at a later time
became Chaplain to the British Embassy in Paris. Mr. Gurney was a writer of poems and plays,
lyrics and dramatic verse, and a volume of his work entitled "Fra Cipollo and Other Poems"
was published, from which Browning drew his motto for "Colombe's Birthday." Mr. Gurney was
deeply interested in young Browning's poetry, and there is a nebulous trace of his having something
to do with the publication of "Bells and Pomegranates." Another friend of the poet was Christopher
Dowson, who married the sister of Alfred Domett; at their homes, Albion Terrace, and their
summer cottage in Epping Forest, Browning was a frequent visitor. Dowson died early; but Field
Talfourd (a brother of the author of "Ion" and the artist who made those crayon portraits of
Browning and his wife, in the winter of 1859, in Rome), Joseph Arnould, and Alfred Domett,
with one or two other young men, comprised the poet's more intimate circle at this time. Arnould
and Domett were both studying for the Bar; Arnould had gained the Newdigate in 1834, and had
won great applause by his recital (in the Sheldonian Theater) of his "Hospice of St. Bernard."
Later he was offered the editorship of the Daily News, founded by Forster and Dickens, but
he kept true to his legal studies and in time became the Judge of the High Court at Bombay,
and was knighted by the Crown.

There was a dinner given by Macready at which Browning, Carlyle, and Miss Martineau were guests,
and later a dinner at the Carlyles' where Browning met a son of Burns "who sang some of his
father's songs." To a friend Browning wrote: "I dined with dear Carlyle and his wife (catch
me calling people 'dear' in a hurry) yesterday. I don't know any people like them."

Browning passed a day with Miss Martineau at Ascot, and again visited her in Elstree, where
she was staying with the Macreadys. She greatly admired "Paracelsus," and spoke of her first
acquaintance with his poetry as a "wonderful event." He dined with her at her home in Westminster,
and there met John Robertson, the assistant editor of the Westminster Review, to which Miss
Martineau was a valued contributor. Henry Chorley, a musical critic of the day, was another
guest that night, and soon after Browning dined with him "in his bachellor abode," the other
guests being Arnould, Domett, and Bryan Proctor; later, at a musicale given by Chorley, Browning
met Charlotte Cushman and Adelaide Kemble. Chorley drew around him the best musicians of the
time: Mendelssohn, Moscheles, Liszt, David, and other great composers were often rendered in
his chambers. Proctor was then living in Harley Street, and his house was a center for the
literary folk of the day.

George Eliot speaks of the indifference with which we gaze at our unintroduced neighbor, "while
Destiny stands by, sarcastic, with our dramatis personæ folded in her hands." It was such an
hour of destiny as this when, at a dinner given by Sergeant Talfourd, at his home (No. 56)
in Russell Square, Browning first met John Kenyon. Our great events mostly come to us like
gods in disguise, and this evening was no exception. Unknown and undreamed of, the young poet
had come to one of those partings of the ways which are only recognized in the perspective
of time. Browning's life had been curiously free from any romance beyond that with the muses.
The one woman with whom he had seemed most intimate, Miss Fanny Haworth, was eleven years his
senior, and their intercourse, both conversationally and in letters, had been as impersonal
as literature itself. She was a writer of stories and verse, and had celebrated her young friend
in two sonnets. This friendship was one of literary attractions alone, and the poet had apparently
devoted all his romance to poetry rather than demanded it in life. But now, golden doors were
to open.

At this dinner at Mr. Talfourd's, John Kenyon came over to the poet, after they had left the
dining-room, and inquired if he were not the son of his old school-fellow, Robert Browning.
Finding this surmise to be true, he became greatly attached to him. Mr. Kenyon had lost his
wife some time previously; he had no children, and he was a prominent and favorite figure in
London society. Southey said of Kenyon that he was "one of the best and pleasantest of men,
whom every one likes better the longer he is known," and Kenyon, declaring that Browning "deserved
to be a poet, being one in heart and life," offered to him his "best and most precious gift,"--that
of an introduction to his second cousin, Elizabeth Barrett.

This was the first intimation of Destiny, but the meeting was still to remain in the future.
"Sordello" was published in 1840,--"a colossal derelict on the ocean of poetry," as William
Sharp terms it. The impenetrable nature of the intricacies of the work has been the theme of
many anecdotes. Tennyson declared that there were only two lines in it--the opening and the
closing ones--which he understood, and "they are both lies," he feelingly added. Douglas Jerrold
tackled it when he was just recovering from an illness, and despairingly set down his inability
to comprehend it to the probability that his mind was impaired by disease; and thrusting the
book into the hands of his wife he entreated her to read it at once. He watched her breathlessly,
and when she exclaimed, "I don't know what this means; it is gibberish," Jerrold exclaimed,
"Thank God, I am not an idiot."

Mrs. Carlyle declared that she read "Sordello" attentively twice, but was unable to discover
whether the title referred to "a man, a city, or a tree"; yet most readers of this poem will
be able to recognize that Sordello was a singer of the thirteenth century, whose fame suddenly
lures him from the safety of solitude to the perils of society in Mantua, after which "immersion
in worldliness" he again seeks seclusion, and partially recovers himself. The motif of the
poem recalls the truth expressed in the lines:

  "Who loves the music of the spheres
  And lives on earth, must close his ears
  To many voices that he hears."

Suddenly a dazzling political career opens before Sordello; he is discovered to be--not a nameless
minstrel, but the son of the great Ghibelline chief, Salinguerra; more marvelous still, he
is loved by Palma, in her youthful beauty and fascination; and the crucial question comes,
as in some form it must come to every life, whether he shall choose all the kingdoms of power
and glory, or that kingdom which is not of earth, and cometh not with observation.

It is easy to realize how such a problem would appeal to Robert Browning. Notwithstanding the
traditional "obscurity" of "Sordello," it offers to the thoughtful reader a field of richest
and most entrancing suggestion.

To Alfred Domett, under date of May 22, 1842, Browning writes:[1]

    "... I cannot well say nothing of my constant thoughts of you, most
    pleasant remembrances of you, earnest desires for you. I have a notion
    you will come back some bright morning a dozen years hence and find me
    just gone--to heaven, or Timbuctoo! I give way to this fancy, for it
    lets me write what, I dare say, I have written niggardly enough, of my
    real love for you, better love than I had supposed I was fit for.... I
    have read your poems; you can do anything, and I should think would do
    much. I will if I live. At present, if I stand on head or heels I
    don't know; what men require I know as little; and of what they are in
    possession I know not.... With this I send you your 'Sordello.' I
    suppose, I am sure, indeed, that the translation from Dante, on the
    fly-leaf, is your own...."

In another letter to Alfred Domett, Browning thus refers to Tennyson:

    "... But how good when good he is! That noble 'Locksley Hall!'"

This visit of the young poet to Italy forged the link of that golden chain which was to unite
all his future with that land of art and song which held for him such wonderful Sibylline leaves
of the yet undreamed-of chapters of his life.

CHAPTER IV

1833-1841

  "O Life, O Beyond,
    Art thou fair, art thou sweet?"

  "How the world is made for each of us!
    How all we perceive and know in it
  Tends to some moment's product thus,
    When a soul declares itself--to wit,
  By its fruit, the thing it does!"

Elizabeth Barrett was but twelve days in translating the "Prometheus Bound" of Æschylus, and
of the result of this swift achievement she herself declared, when laughingly discussing this
work with Home in later years, that it ought to have been "thrown in the fire immediately afterward
as the only means of giving it a little warmth." Combined with a few of her other poems, however,
it was published (anonymously) in 1832, and received from the Athenæum the edifying verdict
that "those who adventure in the hazardous lists of poetic translation should touch any one
rather than Æschylus, and they may take warning from the writer before us."

The quiet life at Sidmouth goes on,--goes on, in fact, for three years,--and the life is not
an unmixed joy to Miss Barrett. "I like the greenness and the tranquillity and the sea," she
writes to a friend. The grandeur is concentrated upon the ocean without deigning to have anything
to do with the earth...."

In the summer of 1835 the Barretts left Sidmouth for London, locating at first in Gloucester
Place (No. 74) where they remained for three years. Hugh Stuart Boyd had, in the meantime,
removed to St. John's Wood; Mr. Kenyon and Miss Mitford became frequent visitors. Miss Barrett's
literary activity was stimulated by London life, and she began contributing to a number of
periodicals, and her letter-writing grew more and more voluminous. To Mr. Boyd she wrote soon
after their arrival in London:

    "As George is going to do what I am afraid I shall not be able to do
    to-day,--to visit you,--he must take with him a few lines from me, to
    say how glad I am to feel myself again only at a short distance from
    you; and gladder I shall be when the same room holds both of us.

If the classic lore and ponderous scholarship unfitted Mr. Boyd to feel the loveliness of this
lyric, those who enter into its pathos may find some compensation for not being great classicists.
It is in this poem that the lines occur,--

  "Nor mourn, O living One, because her part in life was mourning:
  Would she have lost the poet's fire, for anguish of the burning?

       *       *       *       *       *

  Albeit softly in our ears her silver song was ringing,
  The foot-fall of her parting soul is softer than her singing."

Miss Barrett's fugitive poems of this time tell much of the story of her days. She sees Haydon's
portrait of Wordsworth, and it suggests the sonnet beginning:

  "Wordsworth upon Helvellyn!..."

The poems written previously to "A Drama of Exile" do not at all indicate the power and beauty
and the depth of significance for which all her subsequent work is so remarkable. "The Seraphim,"
"Isobel's Child," "The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus," however much they may contain occasional
glimpses of poetic fire, would never have established her rank. Yet "The Sleep" belongs to
this period, and that poem of exquisite pathos, "Cowper's Grave." Anticipating a little, there
came that poem which awakened England and the modern world, indeed, to a sense of the suffering
of children in factory life, "The Cry of the Children," which appeared almost simultaneously
with Lord Shaftesbury's great speech in Parliament on child labor. The poem and the statesman
and philanthropist together aroused England.

A poem called "Confessions" is full of a mysterious power that haunts the reader in a series
of pictures:

  "Face to face in my chamber, my silent chamber, I saw her:
  God and she and I only, there I sate down to draw her
  Soul through the clefts of confession--'Speak, I am holding thee fast,
  As the angel of resurrection shall do at the last.'"

And what touching significance is in these lines:

  "The least touch of their hands in the morning, I keep it by day and
      by night;
  Their least step on the stair, at the door, still throbs through me,
      if ever so light."

There were the "Crowned and Wedded" that celebrated the marriage of England's beloved queen;
"Bertha in the Lane," which has been one of the most universal favorites of any of her lyrics;
still later, "The Dead Pan," which essentially embodies her highest convictions regarding the
poetic art: that Poetry must be real, and, above all, true.

  "O brave poets, keep back nothing,
  Nor mix falsehood with the whole!

     *       *       *       *

  Hold, in high poetic duty,
  Truest Truth the fairest Beauty!"

In such lines as these she expressed her deepest feeling.

Then appeared "Comfort," "Futurity," and "An Apprehension"; the dainty little picture of her
childish days in "Hector in the Garden"; the sonnets to George Sand, on which the French biographer[3]
of Mrs. Browning, in recent years, has commented, translating the first line,--

  "Vrai genie, mais vraie femme!"

and adding that these words, addressed to George Sand, are illustrated by her own life.

The sonnet "Insufficiency," of this period, closes with the lines,

  "And what we best conceive we fail to speak.
  Wait, soul, until thine ashen garments fall,
  And then resume thy broken strains, and seek
  Fit peroration without let or thrall."

In all this work that deep religious note, that exaltation of spirituality which so completely
characterized Elizabeth Barrett Browning, is felt by the reader. Religion was always to her
a life, not a litany. The Divine Love was as the breath of life to her, wherein she lived and
moved, and on which she relied for her very being.

The poem called "A Rhapsody of Life's Progress," though not often noted by the critical writers
on Mrs. Browning, is one full of impressive lines, with that haunting refrain of every stanza,--

  "O Life, O Beyond,
  Thou art strange, thou art sweet!"

Albeit, a candid view must also recognize that this poem reveals those early faults, the redundancy,
the almost recklessness of color and rhythm, that are much less frequently encountered in the
poems of Mrs. Browning than they were in those of Miss Barrett. For poetic work is an art as
well as a gift, and while "Poets are born, not made," yet, being born, the poet must proceed
also to make himself. In this "Rhapsody" occur the lines that are said to have thrown cultured
Bostonians into a bewilderment exceptional; a baffled and despairing state not to be duplicated
in all history, unless by that of the Greeks before the Eleusinian mysteries; the lines running,--

  "Let us sit on the thrones
    In a purple sublimity,
  And grind down men's bones
    To a pale unanimity."

Polite circles in Boston pondered unavailingly upon this medley, and were apparently reduced
to the same mental condition as was Mrs. Carlyle when she read "Sordello." Unfortunately for
Jane Carlyle there were in her day no Browning societies, with their all-embracing knowledge,
to which Browning himself conveniently referred all persons who questioned him as to the meaning
of certain passages. One Boston woman, not unknown to fame, recalls even now that she walked
the Common, revolving these cryptic lines in her mind, and meeting Dr. Holmes, asked if he
understood them, to which the Autocrat replied, "God forbid!"

This very affluence of feeling, however, or even recklessness of imagery, was not without its
place as a chastened and subdued factor in the power of Miss Barrett later on. From her earliest
childhood she had the scholar's instinct and love of learning; she read fluently French, German,
and Italian; she was well grounded in Latin, and for the Greek she had that impassioned love
that made its literature to her an assimilation rather than an acquirement. Its rich intellectual
treasure entered into her inmost life. She also read Hebrew, and all her life kept with her
a little Hebrew Bible, as well as a Greek Testament, the margins of both of which are filled
with her notes and commentaries in her clear, microscopic handwriting. Miss Barrett's earliest
work, published anonymously, at her father's expense, rather to gratify himself and a few friends
than to make any appeal to the public, had no special claim to literary immortality, whatever
its promise; but once in London, something in the very atmosphere seemed to act as a solvent
to precipitate her nebulous dreams and crystallize them into definite and earnest aims. Poetry
had always been to her "its own exceeding great reward," but she was now conscious of a desire
to enter into the stress and storm of the professional writer, who must sink or swim, accept
the verdict of success or failure, and launch forth on that career whose very hardships and
uncertainties are a part of its fascination. To Elizabeth Barrett, secure in her father's home,
there was little possibility of the hardships and privations on the material side not unfrequently
incidental to the pursuit of letters, but to every serious worker life prefigures itself as
something not unlike the Norse heaven with its seven floors, each of which must be conquered.

  "Here a star, and there a star,
    Some lose their way,--
  Here a mist, and there a mist,
    Afterwards ... day!"

Miss Barrett finds London "wrapped up like a mummy, in a yellow mist," but she tries to like
it, and "looks forward to seeing those here whom we might see nowhere else." Her brother George,
who had recently graduated from the University of Glasgow, was now a barrister student at the
Inner Temple. Henrietta and Arabel, the two sisters, found interest and delight in the new
surroundings.

Retrospectively viewed, Mrs. Browning's life falls easily into three periods, which seem to
name themselves as a prelude, an interlude, and a realization. She was just past her twenty-ninth
birthday when the family came up to London, and up to that time she had, indeed, lived with
dreams and visions for her company. These years were but the prelude, the preparatory period.
She then entered on the experimental phase, the testing of her powers, the interlude that lay
between early promise and later fulfillment. In her forty-first year came her marriage to Robert
Browning and the beginning of those nearly fifteen years of marvelous achievement, during which
the incomparable "Sonnets from the Portuguese" and "Aurora Leigh" were written,--the period
of realization.

Before the beginning of the London period Miss Barrett's literary work had been largely that
of the amateur, though in the true meaning of that somewhat misused term, as the lover, rather
than as merely the more or less crude experimenter. For Poetry to Elizabeth Barrett was a divine
commission no less than an inborn gift. Under any circumstances, she would have poured her
life "with passion into music," and with the utmost sincerity could she have said, with George
Eliot's "Armgart,"

  "I am not glad with that mean vanity
  Which knows no good beyond its appetite
  Full feasting upon praise! I am only glad,
  Being praised for what I know is worth the praise;
  Glad of the proof that I myself have part
  In what I worship!"

As is revealed and attested in many expressions of her maturer years, Poetry was to her the
most serious, as well as the most enthralling, of pursuits, while she was also a very accomplished
scholar. A special gift, and a facility for the acquirement of scholarly knowledge in the academic
sense, do not invariably go together; often is the young artist so bewitched with his gift,
so entranced with the glory and the splendor of a dream, that the text-book, by contrast, is
a dull page, to which he cannot persuade himself to turn. To him the air is peopled with visions
and voices that fascinate his attention. In the college days of James Russell Lowell is seen
an illustration of this truth, the young student being temporarily suspended, and sent--not
to Coventry, but to Concord. Perhaps the banishment of a Harvard student for the high crime
and misdemeanor of being addicted to rhyme rather than mathematics, and his penalty in the
form of exile to Concord, the haunt of Emerson and the Muses, may have made Pan laugh. But,
at all events, Miss Barrett was as naturally a scholar, in the fullest significance of the
term, as she was a poet. This splendid equipment was a tremendous factor in that splendor of
achievement, and in that universally recognized success, that has made the name of Elizabeth
Barrett Browning immortal in all ages, as the greatest woman poet the world has ever known.

The professional literary life is a drama in itself,--comedy, or tragedy, as may be, and usually
a mixture of both. It ranges over wide areas of experience, from that of the author of "Richard
Feverel," who is said to have written that novel on a diet of oatmeal and cold water, to that
of the luxurious author whose séances with the Muses are decorously conducted in irreproachable
interiors, with much garnishing, old rose and ivory, ebony carvings, and inlaid desks, at which
the marvelous being who now and then condescends to "dictate" a "best seller," is apt to be
surprised by a local photographer. But as a noted educator defined a University as "a log,--with
Mark Hopkins sitting on the other end," so the "real thing" in a literary career may not inaptly
be typified by Louisa Alcott sitting on the back stairs, writing on an old atlas; and it was
into actualities somewhat like these that Elizabeth Barrett desired to plunge. The question
that she voiced in later years, in "Aurora Leigh,"--

  "My own best poets, am I one with you,
  That thus I love you,--or but one through love?
  Does all this smell of thyme about my feet
  Conclude my visit to your holy hill
  In personal presence, or but testify
  The rustling of your vesture through my dreams
  With influent odours?"--

this question, in substance, stirred now in her life, and insisted upon reply. She must, like
all real poets, proceed to "hang her verses in the wind," and watch if perchance there are

                "... the five
  Which five hundred will survive."

Elizabeth Barrett was of a simplicity that had no affinities with the poseur in any respect,
and she had an inimitable sense of humor that pervaded all her days. Wit and pathos are, indeed,
so closely allied that it would be hardly possible that the author of the "De Profundis," a
poem that sounds the profoundest depths of the human soul, should not have the corresponding
quality of the swiftest perception of the humorous. It was somewhere about this time that Poe
sent to her a volume of his poems with an inscription on the fly-leaf that declared her to
be "the noblest of her sex."

"And what could I say in reply," she laughingly remarked, "but 'Sir, you are the most discerning
of yours!'"

The first poem of hers that was offered in a purely professional way was "The Romaunt of Margret."
It appeared in the New Monthly Magazine, then edited by Bulwer, who was afterward known as
the first Lord Lytton. At this time Richard Hengist Horne was basking in the fame of his "Orion,"
and to him Miss Barrett applied, through a mutual friend, as to whether her enclosed poem had
any title to that name, or whether it was mere verse. "As there could be no doubt in the mind
of the recipient on that point," said Mr. Horne, "the poem was forwarded to Bulwer, and duly
appeared. The next one sent," continues Mr. Horne, "started the poetess at once on her bright
and noble career." This "next one" appears to have been "The Poet's Vow," and a confirmation
of this supposition is seen in a letter of hers at this date to Mr. Boyd, in which she explains
her not having at hand a copy of the Athenæum that he had wished to see, and adds:

    "I can give you, from memory, the Athenæum's review in that number.

A discussion arises in the family regarding the taking of a house in Wimpole Street, and Elizabeth
remarks that for her part she would rather go on inhabiting castles in the air than to live
in that particular house, "whose walls look so much like Newgate's turned inside out." She
continues, however, that if it is decided upon, she has little doubt she will wake and sleep
very much as she would anywhere else. With a strong will, and an intense, resistless kind of
energy in holding any conviction, and an independence of character only equalled by its preeminent
justice and generous magnanimity, she was singularly free from any tenacious insistence upon
the matters of external life. She had her preferences; but she always accommodated herself
to the decision or the necessity of the hour, and there was an end of it. She had that rare
power of instantaneous mental adjustment; and if a given thing were right and best, or if it
were not best but was still inevitable, she accepted it and did not make life a burden to every
one concerned by endless discussion.

London itself did not captivate her fancy. "Did Dr. Johnson in his paradise in Fleet Street
love the pavements and the walls?" she questioned. "I doubt that," she added; "the place, the
privileges, don't mix in one's love as is done by the hills and the seaside."

The privileges, however, became more and more interesting to her. One of these was when she
met Wordsworth, whom she describes as being "very kind," and that he "let her hear his conversation."

This conversation she did not find "prominent," for she saw at the same time Landor, "the brilliant
Landor," she notes, and felt the difference "between great genius and eminent talent." But
there was a day on which she went to Chiswick with Wordsworth and Miss Mitford, and all the
way she thought she must be dreaming. It was Landor, though, who captivated her fancy at once,
as he already had that of her future poet-lover and husband, who was yet unrevealed to her.
Landor, "in whose hands the ashes of antiquity burn again," she writes, gave her two Greek
epigrams he had recently written. All this time she is reading everything,--Sheridan Knowles's
play of "The Wreckers," which Forrest had rejected, "rather for its unfitness to his own personal
talent than for its abstract demerit," she concludes; and "Ion," which she finds beautiful
morally rather than intellectually, and thinks that, as dramatic poetry, it lacks power, passion,
and condensation. Reading Combe's "Phrenology," she refers to his theory that slowness of the
pulse is a sign of the poetical impulse. If this be true, she fears she has no hope of being
a poet, "for my pulse is in a continual flutter," she notes; and she explains to Mr. Boyd that
the line

  "One making one in strong compass"

in "The Poet's Vow," which he found incomprehensible, really means that "the oneness of God,
'in Whom are all things,' produces a oneness, or sympathy, with all things. The unity of God
preserves a unity in man."

All in all, Miss Barrett is coming to enjoy her London life. A twentieth century residence
across the continent could hardly seem more remote.

The removal to Wimpole Street was decided upon, and to that house (No. 50), gloomy or the reverse,
the Barretts migrated. Miss Barrett's new book, under the title of "The Seraphim and Other
Poems," was published, marking her first professional appearance before the public over her
own name. "I feel very nervous about it," she said; "far more than I did when my 'Prometheus'
crept out of the Greek."

Mr. Kenyon was about to go to Rydal Mount on a visit to Wordsworth, and Miss Barrett begs him
to ask, as for himself, two garden cuttings of myrtle or geranium, and send to her--two, that
she may be sure of saving one.

Autographs had value in those days, and in a note to Mr. Bray Miss Barrett alludes to one of
Shakespeare's that had been sold for a hundred pounds and asks if he feels sure of the authenticity
of his own Shakespearean autograph.

A new poetic era had dawned about the time that "The Seraphim" appeared. Tennyson had written
"Audley Court," and was beginning to be known in America, owing this first introduction to
Emerson, who visited Landor in Florence and made some sojourn afterward in England. The Boston
publishing house of C. C. Little and Company (now Little, Brown, and Company) had written to
Tennyson (under date of April 27, 1838) regarding a republishing of his volume, as the future
laureate was already recognized for the musical quality and perfection of art in his work.
Browning had published only "Pauline," "Paracelsus," and "Strafford." Shelley and Keats were
dead, their mortal remains reposing in the beautiful English cemetery in Rome, under the shadow
of the tall cypresses, by the colossal pyramid of Caius Cestus. Byron and Scott and Coleridge
had also died. There were Landor and Southey, Rogers and Campbell; but with Miss Barrett there
came upon the scene a new minstrelsy that compelled its own recognition. Some of her shorter
poems had caught the popular ear; notably, her "Cowper's Grave," which remains, to-day, one
of her most appealing and exquisite lyrics.

  "It is a place where poets crowned may feel the heart's decaying;
  It is a place where happy saints may weep amid their praying."

The touching pathos of the line,

  "O Christians, at your cross of hope a hopeless hand was clinging!"

moves every reader. And what music and touching appeal in the succeeding stanza:

  "And now, what time ye all may read through dimming tears his story,
  How discord on the music fell and darkness on the glory,
  And how when, one by one, sweet sounds and wandering lights departed,
  He wore no less a loving face because so broken-hearted."

In seeing, "on Cowper's grave,... his rapture in a vision," Miss Barrett pictured his strength--

  "... to sanctify the poet's high vocation."

Her reverence for poetic art finds expression in almost every poem that she has written.

Among other shorter poems included with "The Seraphim" were "The Poet's Vow," "Isobel's Child,"
and others, including, also, "The Romaunt of Margret." One reviewer castigated her for presuming
to take such a theme as "The Seraphim" "from which Milton would have shrank!" All the critics
agree in giving her credit for genius of no ordinary quality; but the general consensus of
opinion was that this genius manifested itself unevenly, that she was sometimes led into errors
of taste. That she was ever intentionally obscure, she denied. "Unfortunately obscure" she
admitted that she might be, but "willingly so,--never."

Of the personal friends of Elizabeth Barrett one of the nearest was Mary Russell Mitford, who
was nineteen years her senior. Miss Mitford describes her at the time of their meeting as having
"such a look of youthfulness that she had some difficulty in persuading a friend that Miss
Barrett was old enough to be introduced into society." Miss Mitford added that she was "certainly
one of the most interesting persons" she had ever seen; "of a slight, delicate figure,... large,
tender eyes, and a smile like a sunbeam."

Mr. Kenyon brought Andrew Crosse, a noted electrician of the day, to see Miss Barrett; and
in some reminiscences[4] written by Mrs. Andrew Crosse there is a chapter on "John Kenyon and
his Friends" that offers the best comprehension, perhaps, of this man who was so charming and
beloved a figure in London society,--a universal favorite. Born in 1784 in Jamaica, the son
of a wealthy land-owner, he was sent to England as a lad, educated there, and in 1815 he set
out for a tour of the continent. In 1817, in Paris, he met and became intimate with Professor
George Ticknor of Harvard University, the Spanish historian; and through this friendship Mr.
Kenyon came to know many of the distinguished Americans of the day, including Emerson, Longfellow,
and Willis. Coleridge, Southey, Wordsworth, and Landor were among Kenyon's most intimate circle;
and there is a record of one of his dinners at which the guests were Daniel Webster, Professor
and Mrs. Ticknor, Dickens, Montalembert, and Lady Mary Shepherd. In 1823 Kenyon married Miss
Curteis, and they lived for some years in Devonshire Place, with frequent interludes of travel
on the continent. Mrs. Kenyon died in 1835, but when the Barretts came up to London Kenyon
had resumed his delightful hospitalities, of which he made fairly a fine art. Professor Ticknor
has left an allusion to another dinner at Kenyon's where he met Miss Barrett. In the autumn
of 1839 Miss Barrett, accompanied by her brother Edward, went to Torquay, for the warmer climate,
and Mr. Kenyon also had gone there for the winter. Around him were gathered a group of notable
friends, with whom Miss Barrett, his cousin (with one remove), was constantly associated,--Landor,
Andrew Crosse, Theodosia Garrow (afterwards the wife of Thomas Adolphus Trollope), and Bezzi,
an accomplished Italian, who was afterward associated with Seymour Kirkup in discovering Dante's
portrait concealed under the whitewash applied to the walls of the Bargello in Florence. Miss
Barrett was at this time entering into that notable correspondence with Richard Hengist Horne,
many of these letters containing passages of interest. For instance, of poetry we find her saying:

    "If poetry under any form be exhaustible, Nature is; and if Nature is,
    we are near a blasphemy, and I, for one, could not believe in the
    immortality of the soul.

      'Si l'âme est immortelle,
       L'amour ne l'est-il-pas?'

    Extending l'amour into all love of the ideal, and attendant power of
    idealizing.... I don't believe in mute, inglorious Miltons, and far
    less in mute, inglorious Shakespeares."

Referring to some correspondence with Miss Martineau, Miss Barrett characterizes her as "the
noblest female intelligence between the seas," and of Tennyson, in relation to some mention
of him, she wrote that "if anything were to happen to Tennyson, the whole world should go into
mourning."

A project (said to have originated with Wordsworth) was launched to "modernize" Chaucer, in
which Miss Barrett, Leigh Hunt, Monckton Milnes, Mr. Horne, and one or two others enthusiastically
united, the only dissenter being Landor, who characteristically observed that any one who was
fit to read Chaucer at all could read him in the original. Later on the co-operation of Browning,
Tennyson, Talfourd, Bulwer, Mary Howitt, and the Cowden Clarkes was solicited and in part obtained.
But Landor held firm, and of his beloved Chaucer he said: "I will have no hand in breaking
his dun, but rich-painted glass, to put in thinner (if clearer) panes." A great deal of correspondence
ensued in connection with this Herculean labor, most of which is of less interest to the general
reader than it might well be to the literary antiquarian.

The next special literary enthusiasm of Mr. Horne and Miss Barrett was the projection of a
work of criticism, to be issued anonymously, and entitled "The New Spirit of the Age." They
collaborated on the critique on Wordsworth and Leigh Hunt, and for the one on Landor Miss Barrett
was mainly responsible, in which she says he "writes poetry for poets, and criticism for critics;...
and as if poetry were not, in English, a sufficiently unpopular dead language, he has had recourse
to writing poetry in Latin." She speaks of his "Pericles and Aspasia" and his "Pentameron"
as "books for the world and for all time, complete in beauty of sentiment and subtlety of criticism."
Two of Landor's works, very little known, the "Poems from the Arabic and Persian" and "A Satire
upon Satirists," are here noted. "It will be delightful to me to praise Tennyson,--although,
by Saint Eloy, I never imitated him," she writes to Mr. Horne; "and I take that oath because
the Quarterly was sure that if it had not been for him I should have hung a lady's hair 'blackly'
instead of 'very blackly.'" Miss Mitford was somewhat concerned with this hazardous venture,
but she had no desire to discuss Dickens, as she "could not admire his love of low life!" Miss
Barrett's appreciation of Tennyson is much on record. She finds him "a divine poet." Monckton
Milnes, whose first work she liked extremely, seemed to her in his later poems as wanting in
fire and imagination, and as being too didactic. Barry Cornwall's lyrics impressed her "like
embodied music." Mr. Horne finally wrote the critique on Dickens, and of it Miss Barrett said:
"I think the only omission of importance in your admirable essay is the omission of the influence
of the French school of imaginative literature upon the mind of Dickens, which is manifest
and undeniable.... Did you ever read the powerful Trois Jours d'un Condamné, and will you confront
that with the tragic saliences of 'Oliver Twist'?... We have no such romance writer as Victor
Hugo ... George Sand is the greatest female genius of the world, at least since Sappho." (At
this time George Eliot had not appeared.) Miss Barrett appreciatively alludes to Sir Henry
Taylor (the author of "Philip van Artevelde") as "an infidel in poetry," and to the author
of "Festus" as "a man of great thoughts." She finds part of the poem "weak," but, "when all
is said," she continues, "what poet-stuff remains! what power! what fire of imagination, worth
the stealing of Prometheus!"

In relation to some strictures on Carlyle, Miss Barrett vivaciously replies that his object
is to discover the sun, not to specify the landscape, and that it would be a strange reproach
to bring against the morning star that it does not shine in the evening.

The idea of a lyrical drama, "Psyche Apocalypte," was entertained by Mr. Horne and Miss Barrett,
but, fortunately, no fragment of it was materialized into public light. There was a voluminous
correspondence between them concerning this possible venture. Meanwhile Miss Barrett's poems
won success past her "expectation or hope. Blackwood's high help was much," she writes, "and
I continue to have the kindest letters from unknown readers.... The American publisher has
printed fifteen hundred copies. If I am a means of ultimate loss to him, I shall sit in sackcloth."

In another of her letters to Mr. Horne we read that Wordsworth is in a fever because of a projected
railroad through the Lake Country, and that Carlyle calls Harriet Martineau "quite mad," because
of her belief in Mesmerism. "For my own part," adds Miss Barrett, "I am not afraid to say that
I almost believe in Mesmerism, and quite believe in Harriet Martineau." She is delighted that
Horne's "Orion" is to be published in New York. "I love the Americans," she asserts, "a noble
and cordial people."

Miss Barrett remained for three years in Torquay, the climate being regarded as better for
her health. But the tragedy of her life took place there in the drowning of her brother Edward,
who went out one day with two friends in a boat and never returned. Three days later the boat
was found floating, overturned, and the bodies of the three young men were recovered. This
sad event occurred in the August of 1840, and it was more than a year before she was able to
resume her literary work and her correspondence. In the September of 1841 she returned to London,
and in a letter to Mr. Boyd soon after she replied to his references to Gregory as a poet,
saying she has not much admiration even for his grand De Virginitate, and chiefly regards him
as one who is only poetical in prose.

Miss Barrett's delicacy of health through all these years has been so universally recorded
(and, according to her own words, so exaggerated) that it needs no more than passing allusion
here. So far as possible she herself ignored it, and while it was always a factor to be reckoned
with, yet her boundless mental energy tided her over illness and weakness to a far greater
degree than has usually been realized.

Elizabeth Barrett was the most sympathetic and affectionate of friends, and her devotion to
literature resulted in no mere academic and abnormal life. Her letters are filled with all
the little inquiries and interests of household affection and sweetness of sympathy with the
personal matters of relatives and friends, and if those are not here represented, it is simply
that they are in their nature colloquial, and to be taken for granted rather than repeated
for reading, when so long separated by time from the conditions and circumstances that called
them forth. She was glad to return from Torquay to her family again. Did anybody ever love
poetry and stop in the middle? I wonder if any one ever could?... besides, I am becoming better.
Dear Mr. Boyd," she entreats, "do not write another word about my illness either to me or to
others. I am sure you would not willingly disturb me. I can't let ... prescribe anything for
me except her own affection." These words illustrate the spirit in which Miss Barrett referred
to her own health. No one could be more remote from a morbid invalidism too often associated
with her.

One of her first efforts after her return from Torquay was to send to the Athenæum some Greek
translations, which, to her surprise, were accepted, and she writes to Mr. Boyd that she would
enclose to him the editor's letter "if it were legible to anybody except people used to learn
reading from the Pyramids." It must have been due to a suggestion from the editor of the Athenæum
at this time that she wrote her noble and affluent essay on "The Greek Christian Poets," which
is perhaps her finest work in prose. Something in the courteous editorial note suggested this
to her, and she discusses the idea with Mr. Boyd.

Mr. Dilke was then the editor of the Athenæum. He quite entered into the idea of this essay,
only begging Miss Barrett to keep away from theology. Mr. Dilke also suggests that she write
a review of English poetical literature, from Chaucer to contemporary times, and this initiated
her essay called "The Book of the Poets." For her Greek review she desired a copy of the Poetæ
Christiani, but found the price (fourteen guineas) ruinous. But whether she had all the needful
data or not, the first paper was a signal success, and she fancied that some bona avis, as
good as a nightingale, had shaken its wings over her. Of the three Greek tragedians, Æschylus,
Euripides, and Sophocles, Elizabeth Barrett had read every line. Plato she loved and read exhaustively;
of Aristotle at this time she had read his Ethics, Poetics, and his work on Rhetoric, and of
Aristophanes a few, only, of his plays. But Miss Barrett was also a great novel-reader, keeping
her "pillows stuffed with novels," as she playfully declared. Her room, in the upper part of
the house, revealed the haunt of the scholar. Upon a bracket the bust of Homer looked down;
her bookcase showed one entire shelf occupied by the Greek poets; another relegated wholly
to the English poets; and philosophy, ethics, science, and criticism were liberally represented.
A bust of Chaucer companioned that of Homer. By her sofa nestled Flush, her dog, Miss Mitford's
gift.

It was in this year of 1841 that there penetrated into her atmosphere and consciousness the
first intimation of Robert Browning. "Pippa Passes" had just been published, and John Kenyon,
ever alert to bring any happiness into the lives of his friends (Kenyon, "the joy-giver," as
he was well termed), suggested introducing the young poet to her, but on the plea of her ill-health
she declined. A little later, in a letter to Mr. Boyd, she mentions one or two comments made
on her essay, "The Greek Christian Poets,"--that Mr. Horne, and also "Mr. Browning, the poet,"
had both, as she was told, expressed approval. "Mr. Browning is said to be learned in Greek,"
she adds, "especially the dramatists." So already the air begins to stir and tremble with the
coming of him of whom in later days she wrote:

  "I yield the grave for thy sake, and resign
  My near sweet view of heaven for earth with thee."

The entrancing thrill of that wonderful Wagner music that ushers in the first appearance of
the knight in the music-drama of "Lohengrin" is typical of the vibrations that thrill the air
in some etherial announcement of experiences that are on the very threshold, and which are
recognized by a nature as sensitive and impressionable as was that of Elizabeth Barrett. A
new element with its transfiguring power awaited her, and some undefined prescience of that

  "... most gracious singer of high poems"

whose music was to fall at her door

  "... in folds of golden fulness"

haunted her like "an odor from Dreamland sent."

She pondered on

                 "... how Theocritus had sung
  Of the sweet years, the dear and wished-for years,"

but she dared not dream that the "mystic Shape" that drew her backward, and whose voice spoke
"in mastery," had come to lead her,--not to Death, but Love.

CHAPTER V

1841-1846

        "... If a man could feel,
  Not one day in the artist's ecstasy,
  But every day,--feast, fast, or working-day,
  The spiritual significance burn through
  The hieroglyphic of material shows,
  Henceforward he would paint the globe with wings."

The appearance of "Bells and Pomegranates" made a deep impression on Elizabeth Barrett, as
the numbers, opening with "Pippa Passes," successively appeared between 1841 and 1846. Of "Pippa"
she said she could find it in her heart to covet the authorship, and she felt all the combinations
of effect to be particularly "striking and noble." In a paper that Miss Barrett wrote in these
days for the Athenæum, critically surveying the poetic outlook of the time, she referred to
Browning and Tennyson as "among those high and gifted spirits who would still work and wait."
When this London journal reviewed (not too favorably) Browning's "Romances and Lyrics," Miss
Barrett took greatly to heart the injustice that she felt was done him, and reverted to it
in a number of personal letters, expressing her conviction that "it would be easier to find
a more faultless writer than a poet of equal genius." An edition of Tennyson, in two volumes,
came out, including the "Ulysses," "Morte d'Arthur," "Locksley Hall," and "OEnone," of which
she says no one quite appeals to her as does "OEnone," and she expresses her belief that philosophic
thinking, like music, is always involved in high ideality of any kind. Wordsworth she insisted
upon estimating from his best, not from his poorest work, and his "Ode" was to her so grand
as to atone for a multitude of poetic sins. "I confess," she wrote to Boyd, "that he is not
unfrequently heavy and dull, and that Coleridge has an intenser genius." To her cousin, Kenyon,
Miss Barrett sent the manuscript of her poem, "The Dead Pan," which he showed to Browning,
who wrote of it to Kenyon with ardent admiration. This note was sent to Miss Barrett, who displayed
it to Horne that he might see the opinion of the poet whom they both admired. Still later,
Horne published in his "New Spirit of the Age" sketches of several writers with their portraits;
and those of Carlyle, Miss Martineau, Wordsworth, Tennyson, and Browning, Miss Barrett had
framed for her own room. She asked Kenyon if that of Browning were a good one. "Rather like,"
he replied. So here and there the Fates were invisibly at work, forging the subtle threads
that were drawing the poets unconsciously nearer.

It was the suggestion of Browning's publisher, Moxon, that "Bells and Pomegranates" might be
issued in pamphlet form, appearing at intervals, as this plastic method would be comparatively
inexpensive, and would also permit the series to be stopped at any time if its success was
not of a degree to warrant continuance. The poet found his title, as he afterward explained
in a letter to Miss Barrett, in Exodus, "... upon the hem of the robe thou shalt make pomegranates
of blue and of purple, and of scarlet, and bells of gold between them round about." After "Pippa
Passes" there followed "King Victor and King Charles," a number of Lyrics, "The Return of the
Druses," "A Blot in the 'Scutcheon," "Luria," and "A Soul's Tragedy." On each of the title-pages
the author was named as the writer of "Paracelsus," "Sordello" being ignored. Among the dedications
of these several numbers those so honored included John Kenyon, Proctor, and Talfourd.

Browning offered "A Blot in the 'Scutcheon" to Macready (whose stage fortunes at this period
were not brilliant), with the remark that "The luck of the third venture is proverbial." The
actor consulted Forster, who passed the play on to Dickens, to whom it deeply appealed. Under
date of November 25, 1842, Dickens wrote of it to Forster in the most enthusiastic words, saying
the reading of it had thrown him "into a perfect passion of sorrow," and that it was "full
of genius, natural, and great thoughts,... and I swear it is a tragedy that must be played,
and played by Macready," continued the novelist. "And tell Browning that I believe from my
soul there is no man living (and not many dead) who could produce such a work." Forster did
not, however, administer this consolation to the young author, who was only to learn of Dickens's
admiration thirty years later, when Forster's biography of him appeared. The story of the production
of the play is told in a letter from Joseph Arnould to Alfred Domett (then in New Zealand),
written under date of May, 1843, dated from Arnould's home in Victoria Square, Pimlico:

    "As one must begin somewhere, suppose we take Browning.... In February
    his play, 'A Blot in the 'Scutcheon,' was announced as forthcoming at
    Drury Lane.... Meantime, judicious friends had a habit of asking when
    the play was coming out...."[5]

A long chapter of vexations is humorously described by Domett, who concludes his letter with
this tribute to the play.

    "... With some of the finest situations and grandest passages you can
    conceive, it does undoubtedly want a sustained interest to the end of
    the third act; in fact the whole of that act on the stage is a falling
    off from the second, which I need not tell you is, for purposes of
    performance, the most unpardonable fault. Still, it will no
    doubt--nay, it must--have done this, viz., produced a higher opinion
    than ever of Browning's genius and the great things he is yet to do,
    in the minds not only of a clique, but of the general world of
    readers. This man will go far yet...."

While this vexation cancelled the friendly relations that had existed between Browning and
Macready, it fostered the friendship between the poet and Helen Faucit (later Lady Martin),
who remembered Browning's attitude "as full of generous sympathy" for the actors of the cast;
while he recalled Miss Faucit's "perfect behavior as a woman, and her admirable playing, as
the one gratifying factor" in the affair. But Browning was too noble by nature for any lasting
resentment, and meeting Macready soon after the death of both his own wife, in Italy, and of
Mrs. Macready, he could only grasp his old friend's hand and exclaim with emotion, "Oh, Macready!"

In the autumn of 1844 Browning set forth for Italy on his second visit. Two years before his
friend Domett had left England for New Zealand, commemorated by the poet in the lines,--

  "How, forsooth, was I to know it
  If Waring meant to glide away
  Like a ghost at break of day."

Browning landed at Naples, and there, according to Mrs. Orr, he became acquainted with a young
Neapolitan, Signor Scotti, who took the bargaining of their tour upon himself, after they had
agreed to travel together, "and now as I write," said Mr. Browning in a letter from his Naples
hotel to his sister Sarianna, "I hear him disputing our bill. He does not see why we should
pay for six wax candles when we have used only two." The pair wandered over the enchanting
shores of all the Naples region, lingered in Sorrento, drove over the picturesque road to Amalfi,
and listened to the song of the sirens along the shore. Their arrival in Rome was Browning's
first sight of the Eternal City. Here Mr. Browning found an old friend, the Contessa Carducci,
with whom the two passed most of their evenings. He made his poetic pilgrimage to the graves
of Shelley and Keats, as do all later pilgrims, and he visited the grotto of Egeria in memory
of Byron. He loitered in the old chiesa near Santa Maria Maggiore, where the sixteenth century
Bishop "ordered his tomb," and he visited Trelawney in Leghorn. There exists little record
of this trip save in the poem "The Englishman in Italy," and his return to England through
Germany is alike unrecorded.

Six years had passed since the publication of "The Seraphim and Other Poems," and on Mr. Browning's
arrival at home again, he found two new volumes of Miss Barrett's, entitled simply "Poems,"
in which were "A Drama of Exile," "Bertha in the Lane," "Catarina to Camoens," "A Vision of
Poets," nearly all of the sonnets that she ever wrote save that immortal sequence, "Sonnets
from the Portuguese," and "Lady Geraldine's Courtship." These volumes absolutely established
her poetic rank with that of Tennyson and Browning. She "heard the nations praising her far
off." While she had many expressions of grateful gladness for all this chorus of praise with
hardly a dissenting voice, the verdict did not affect her own high standards. "I have written
these poems as well as I could," she says, "and I hope to write others better. I have not reached
my own ideal ... but I love poetry more than I love my own successes in it."

Her love of absolute truth, and the absence of any petty self-love in her character, stand
out in any study of her life.

The reviews are eminently appreciative and satisfying. Blackwood's gave a long critique in
a special article, frankly pointing out faults, but asserting that her merits far outweighed
her defects, and that her genius "was profound, unsullied, and without a flaw." The long poem,
"A Drama of Exile" was pronounced the least successful of all, and the prime favorite was "Lady
Geraldine's Courtship." Of this poem of ninety-two stanzas, with eleven more in its "Conclusion,"
thirty-five of the stanzas, or one hundred and forty-four lines, were written in one day.

Though lack of health largely restricted Miss Barrett to her room, her sympathies and interests
were world-wide. She read the reviews of the biography of Dr. Arnold, a work she desired to
read, entire, and records that "Dr. Arnold must have been a man in the largest and noblest sense."

A certain consciousness of each other already stirred in the air for Browning and Miss Barrett,
and still closer were the Fates drawing the subtle threads of destiny.

It was in this November that Mrs. Jameson first came into Miss Barrett's life, coming to the
door with a note, and "overcoming by kindness was let in." This initiated a friendship that
was destined in the near future to play its salient part in the life of Elizabeth Barrett.
In what orderly sequence the links of life appear, viewed retrospectively!

She "gently wrangles" with Mr. Boyd for addressing her as "Miss Barrett," deprecating such
cold formality, and offering him his choice of her little pet name "Ba" or of Elizabeth.

She reads Hans Christian Andersen's "Improvisatore," and in reply to some expressed wonder
at her reading so many novels she avows herself "the most complete and unscrupulous romance
reader" possible; and adds that her love of fiction began with her breath, and will end with
it; "and it goes on increasing. On my tombstone may be written," she continued, "'Ci gît the
greatest novel reader in the world,' and nobody will forbid the inscription." Not long after
she writes that she is getting deeper and deeper into correspondence with Robert Browning,
and that they are growing to be the truest of friends. Lowell writes to Miss Barrett regarding
her poems, though the letter does not seem to be anywhere on record, and she writes to Mr.
Westwood that in her view Mr. Browning's power is of a very high order, and that he must read
"Paracelsus." In its author she finds one who "speaks true oracles." She finds "Colombe's Birthday"
exquisite, and "Pippa Passes" she "kneels to, with deepest reverence."

The first letter of Browning to Miss Barrett was written on January 10 of this year (1845),
and he began with the words: "I love your verses with all my heart, dear Miss Barrett." He
enters into the "fresh strange music, the exquisite pathos, and true, brave thought" of her
work; and reminds her that Kenyon once asked him if he would like to see Miss Barrett, but
that she did not feel able, and he felt as if close to some world's wonder, but the half-opened
door shut. Her reply, which is dated the next day, thanks him for his sympathy and offers him
her gratitude, "agreeing that of all the commerce from Tyre to Carthage, the exchange of sympathy
for gratitude is the most princely thing." And she craves a lasting obligation in that he shall
suggest her master-faults in poetry. She does not pretend to any extraordinary meekness under
criticism, and possibly might not be at all obedient to it, but she has such high respect for
his power in Art, and his experience as an artist. She refers to Mr. Kenyon as her friend and
helper, and her books' friend and helper, "critic and sympathizer, true friend at all hours!"
and she adds that "while I live to follow this divine art of poetry ... I must be a devout
student and admirer of your works."

Browning is made very happy by her words, and he feels that his poor praise "was nearly as
felicitously brought out as a certain tribute to Tasso, which amused me in Rome some weeks
ago," he says. "In a neat penciling on the wall by his tomb at Sant' Onofrio--'Alla cara memoria--di--Torquato
Tasso--il Dottore Bernardini--offriva--il sequente Carme--tu'--and no more; the good man, it
would seem, breaking down with the over-load of love here! But my 'O tu' was breathed out most
sincerely, and now you have taken it in gracious part, the rest will come after." And then
he must repeat (to himself) that her poetry must be infinitely more to him than his could be
to her, "for you do what I have only hoped to do." And he hopes she will nevermore talk of
"the honor" of his acquaintance, but he will joyfully wait for the delight of her friendship.
And to his fear that she may hate letter-writing she replies suggesting that nobody likes writing
to everybody, but it would be strange and contradictory if she were not always delighted to
hear from and to write to him; and she can read any manuscript except the writing on the pyramids,
and if he will only treat her en bon camarade "without reference to the conventionalities of
'ladies and gentlemen'"; taking no thought for his sentences (or hers), "nor for your badd
speling nor for mine," she is ready to sign and seal the contract of correspondence. And while
she throws off the ceremony, she holds faster to the kindness. She is overjoyed with this cordial
sympathy. "Is it true," she asks, "that I know so little of you? And is it true that the productions
of an artist do not partake of his real nature? It is not true to my mind,--and therefore it
is not true that I know little of you, except in so far as it is true that your greatest works
are to come.... I think--if I may dare name myself with you in the poetic relation--that we
both have high views of the Art we follow and steadfast purpose in the pursuit of it.... And
that neither of us would be likely to be thrown from the course by the casting of any Atalanta
ball of speedy popularity.

"And after all that has been said and mused upon the anxiety experienced by the true artist,--is
not the good immeasurably greater than the evil? For my part I sometimes wonder how, without
such an object and purpose of life, people contrive to live at all."

And her idea of happiness "lies deep in poetry and its associations." And he replies that what
he has printed "gives no knowledge of me," and that he has never begun what he hopes he was
born to begin and end--"R. B. a poem."

"Do you know Tennyson?" she asks, "that is, with a face to face knowledge? I have great admiration
for him," she continues. "In execution he is exquisite,--and in music a most subtle weigher
out to the ear of fine airs." And she asks if he knows what it is to covet his neighbor's poetry,--not
his fame, but his poetry. It delights her to hear of his garden full of roses and his soul
full of comforts. She finds the conception of his Pippa "most exquisite, and altogether original."

In one of Miss Barrett's letters a few weeks later there seems discernible a forecast of "Aurora
Leigh," when she writes that her chief intention is the writing "of a sort of novel-poem,"
and one "as completely modern as 'Geraldine's Courtship,' running into the midst of our conventions,
and rushing into drawing-rooms and the like 'where angels fear to tread'; and so meeting face
to face and without mask the Humanity of the age, and speaking the truth, as I conceive of
it, out plainly." She is waiting for a story; she will not take one, because she likes to make
her own. Here is without doubt the first conception of "Aurora Leigh."

Touching on Life in another letter, she records her feeling that "the brightest place in the
house is the leaning out of the window."

Browning replies: "And pray you not to lean out of the window when my own foot is only on the
stair."...

"But I did not mean to strike a tragic chord," she replies; "indeed I did not. As to 'escaping
with my life,' it was just a phrase ... for the rest I am essentially better ... and feel as
if it were intended for me to live and not to die." And referring to a passage relating to
Prometheus she asks: "And tell me, if Æschylus is not the divinest of all the divine Greek
souls?" She continues:

    "But to go back to the view of Life with the blind Hopes; you are not
    to think--whatever I may have written or implied--that I lean either
    to the philosophy or affectation which beholds the world through
    darkness instead of light ... and after a course of bitter mental
    discipline and long bodily seclusion I come out with two lessons
    learned--the wisdom of cheerfulness and the duty of social
    intercourse. Anguish has instructed me in joy, and solitude in
    society.... What we call life is a condition of the soul, and the soul
    must improve in happiness and wisdom, except by its own fault.... And
    I do like to hear testimonies like yours, to happiness, and I feel it
    to be a testimony of a higher sort than the obvious one.... Remember,
    that as you owe your unscathed joy to God, you should pay it back to
    His world. I thank you for some of it already."

And she feels how kind he is,--how gently and kindly he speaks to her. In his next letter he
alludes with much feeling to her idea of the poem-novel:

    "The Poem you propose to make; the fresh, fearless, living work you
    describe, is the only Poem to be undertaken now by you or any one who
    is a poet at all; the only reality, only effective piece of service to
    be rendered God or man; it is what I have been all my life intending
    to do, and now shall be much nearer doing since you will be along with
    me. And you can do it, I know and am sure,--so sure that I could find
    it in my heart to be jealous of your stopping on the way even to
    translate the Prometheus...."

The lovers, for such they already are, however unconsciously to both, fall into a long discussion
of Prometheus, and the Greek drama in general, and in another letter, with allusion to his
begging her to take her own good time in writing, she half playfully proffers that it is her
own bad time to which she must submit. "This implacable weather!" she writes; "this east wind
that seems to blow through the sun and the moon!... There will be a May and June if we live
to see such things," and then she speaks of seeing him besides, and while she recognizes it
is morbid to shrink and grow pale in the spirit, yet not all her fine philosophy about social
duties quite carries her through. But "if he thinks she shall not like to see him, he is wrong,
for all his learning." What pathos of revelation of this brave, celestial spirit, tenanting
the most fragile of bodies, is read in the ensuing passage:

    "What you say of society draws me on to many comparative thoughts of
    your life and mine. You seem to have drunken of the cup of life full
    with the sun shining on it. I have lived only inwardly, or with sorrow
    for a strong emotion. Before this seclusion of my illness I was
    secluded still, and there are few of the youngest women in the world
    who have not seen more, known more, of society, than I, who am hardly
    to be called young now. I grew up in the country, had no social
    opportunities, had my heart in books and poetry, and my experience in
    reveries.... Books and dreams were what I lived in--and domestic life
    seemed to buzz gently around, like the bees about the grass.... Why,
    if I live on and escape this seclusion, do you not perceive that I
    labor under signal disadvantages, that I am, in a manner, a blind
    poet?... I have had much of the inner life ... but how willingly would
    I exchange some of this ponderous, helpless knowledge of books for
    some experience of life.... But grumbling is a vile thing, and we
    should all thank God for our measures of life, and think them
    enough.... Like to write? Of course, of course I do. I seem to live
    while I write--it is life for me. Why, what is it to live? Not to eat
    and drink and breathe,--but to feel the life in you down all the
    fibers of being, passionately and joyfully....

    "Ah, you tempt me with a grand vision of Prometheus!... I am inclined
    to think that we want new forms.... The old gods are dethroned. Why
    should we go back to the antique moulds? If it is a necessity of Art
    to do this, then those critics are right who hold that Art is
    exhausted.... I do not believe this; and I believe the so-called
    necessity of Art to be the mere feebleness of the artist. Let us all
    aspire rather to Life.... For there is poetry everywhere...."

Miss Barrett writes to him, continuing the discussion of poetry as an Art, that she does not
want "material as material, but that every life requires a full experience," and she has a
profound conviction that a poet is at a lamentable disadvantage if he has been shut from most
of the outer aspects of life. And he, replying, deprecates a little the outward life for a
poet, with amusing references to a novel of D'Israeli's, where, "lo, dinner is done, and Vivian
Grey is here, and Violet Fane there, and a detachment of the party is drafted off to catch
butterflies." But still he partly agrees, and feels that her Danish novel ("The Improvisatore")
must be full of truth and beauty, and "that a Dane should write so, confirms me in a belief
that Italy is stuff for the use of the North and no more--pure Poetry there is none, as near
as possible none, in Dante, even;... and Alfieri,... with a life of travel, writes you some
fifteen tragedies as colorless as salad grown under a garden glass...." But she--if she asks
questions about novels it is because she wants to see him by the refracted lights, as well
as by the direct ones; and Dante's poetry--"only material for northern rhymers?" She must think
of that before she agrees with him.

As for Browning, he bids her remember that he writes letters to no one but her; but there is
never enough of telling her.... And she, noting his sitting up in the morning till six, and
sleeping only till nine, wants to know "how 'Lurias' can be made out of such ungodly imprudences?
And what is the reasonableness of it," she questions, "when we all know that thinking, dreaming,
creative people, like yourself, have two lives to bear instead of one, and therefore ought
to sleep more than others"; and he is anticipating the day when he shall see her with his own
eyes, and now a day is named on which he will call, and he begs her not to mind his coming
in the least, for if she does not feel able to see him he will come again, and again, as his
time is of no importance.

It was on the afternoon of May 20 (1845) that Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett first met,
and of them it could almost have been said, in words ascribed to Michael Angelo for Vittoria
Colonna,--

    "We are the only two, that, face to face,
  Do know each other, as God doth know us both."

It is said that the first letter of Browning's to her after this meeting is the only one destroyed
of all this wonderful correspondence; and this was such a letter as could only be interpreted
into a desire for marriage, which she, all tender thoughtfulness always for others, characteristically
felt would be fatal to his happiness because of her invalid state. He begged her to return
the letter, and he then destroyed it; and again pleaded that their friendship and intellectual
comradeship should continue. "Your friendship and sympathy will be dear and precious to me
all my life, if you indeed leave them with me so long, or so little," she writes; and she utterly
forbids any further expression or she must do this "to be in my own eyes and before God a little
more worthy, or a little less unworthy, of a generosity...." And he discreetly veils his ardors
for the time, and the wonderful letters run on.

He is writing "The Flight of the Duchess," and sending it to her by installments; she finds
it "past speaking of," and she also refers to "exquisite pages" of Landor's in the "Pentameron."
And poems which he has left with her,--she must have her own gladness from them in her own
way. And did he go to Chelsea, and hear the divine philosophy?

Apparently he did, for he writes:

    "Yes, I went to Chelsea and found dear Carlyle alone--his wife is in
    the country where he will join her as soon as the book's last proof
    sheets are corrected.... He was all kindness, and talked like his own
    self while he made me tea--and would walk as far as Vauxhall Bridge
    with me on my way home."

She writes:

    "I had a letter yesterday from Charles Hemans, the son of Felicia, ...
    who says his mother's memory is surrounded to him 'with almost a
    divine lustre,'... and is not that better than your tradition about
    Shelley's son? and is it not pleasant to know that the noble,
    pure-hearted woman, the Vittoria Colonna of our country, should be so
    loved and comprehended by one, at least, of her own house?"

Under date of August 25, Miss Barrett has been moved to write out the pathetic story of her
brother Edward's death. He had accompanied her to Torquay,--he, "the kindest, the noblest,
the dearest, and when the time came for him to return I, weakened by illness, could not master
my spirits or drive back my tears," and he then decided not to leave her. "And ten days from
that day," she continued, "the boat left the shore which never returned--and he had left me!
For three days we waited,--oh, that awful agony of three days!... Do not notice what I have
written to you, my dearest friend. I have never said so much to a living being--I never could
speak or write of it...."

But he writes her that "better than being happy in her happiness, is it to participate in her
sorrow." And the very last day of that August he writes that he has had such power over himself
as to keep silent ... but "Let me say now--this only once,--that I loved you from my soul,
and gave you my life, as much of it as you would take, and all that ... is independent of any
return on your part." She assures him that he has followed the most generous of impulses toward
her, "yet I cannot help adding that, of us two, yours has not been quite the hardest part."
She confesses how deeply she is affected by his words, "but what could I speak," she questions,
"that would not be unjust to you?... Your life! if you gave it to me and I put my whole heart
into it, what should I put in but anxiety, and more sadness than you were born to? What could
I give you which it would not be ungenerous to give?"

There was a partial plan that Miss Barrett should pass that next winter in Pisa, but owing
to the strange and incalculable disposition of her father, who, while he loved her, was singularly
autocratic in his treatment, the plan was abandoned. All this sorrow may have contributed to
her confession to Browning that no man had ever been to her feelings what he was; and that
if she were different in some respects she would accept the great trust of his happiness....
"But we may be friends always," she continues, "and cannot be so separated that the knowledge
of your happiness will not increase mine.... Worldly thoughts these are not at all, there need
be no soiling of the heart with any such;... you cannot despise the gold and gauds of the world
more than I do,... and even if I wished to be very poor, in the world's sense of poverty, I
could not, with three or four hundred a year, of which no living will can dispossess me. And
is not the chief good of money, the being free from the need of thinking of it?" But he, perfect
in his beautiful trust and tenderness, was "joyfully confident" that the way would open, and
he thanks God that, to the utmost of his power, he has not been unworthy of having been introduced
to her. He is "no longer in the first freshness of his life" and had for years felt it impossible
that he should ever love any woman. But he will wait. That she "cannot dance like Cerito" does
not materially disarrange his plan! And by the last of those September days she confesses that
she is his "for everything but to do him harm," he has touched her so profoundly, and now "none,
except God and your own will, shall interpose between you and me." And he answered her in such
words as these:

    "When I come back from seeing you and think over it all, there is
    never a least word of yours I could not occupy myself with...."

In a subsequent letter Elizabeth Barrett questions: "Could it be that heart and life were devastated
to make room for you? if so it was well done." And she sends thanks to Browning's sister, Sarianna,
for a copy of Landor's verses.

And with all these gracious and tenderly exquisite personal matters, the letters are yet brilliant
in literary allusion and criticism.

During these three years from 1844 to 1847 were written the greater number of Miss Barrett's
finest lyrics. Those two remarkable poems, "A Rhapsody of Life's Progress" and "Confessions";
"Loved Once"; "The Sleep" (the poem which was read at her burial in the lovely, cypress-crowned
cemetery in Florence, and whose stanzas, set to music, were chanted by the choir in Westminster
Abbey when the body of her husband was laid in the "Poets' Corner"), "The Dead Pan," and that
most exquisite lyric of all, "Catarina to Camoens," were all written during this period.

The title of the latter was but a transparent veil for her own feelings toward Robert Browning,
and had she died in his absence, as Catarina did in that of Camoens, the words would have expressed
her own feeling. What profound pathos is in the line,

  "Death is near me,--and not you,"

and how her own infinite sweetness of spirit is mirrored in the stanza,

  "I will look out to his future;
    I will bless it till it shine,
  Should he ever be a suitor
    Unto sweeter eyes than mine."

And read her own self-revelation again in "A Denial,"

  "We have met late--it is too late to meet,
      O friend, not more than friend!"

But the denial breaks down, and the last lines tell the story:

  "Here's no more courage in my soul to say
      'Look in my face and see.'"

And in that last line of "Insufficiency,"

  "I love thee so, Dear, that I only can leave thee."

In "Question and Answer," in "Proof and Disproof," "A Valediction," "Loved Once," and "Inclusions,"
he who reads between the lines and has the magic of divination may read the story of her inner
life.

In the poem "Confessions" is touched a note of mystical, spiritual romance, spiritual tragedy,
wholly of the inner life, that entirely differentiates from any other poetic expression of
Mrs. Browning.

Even with all allowance for the imagination of the poet, these lines reveal such feeling, such
tremulous susceptibility, that with less intellectual balance than was hers, combined with
such lack of physical vigor, would almost inevitably have resulted in failure of poise. The
current of spiritual energy was so strong with Elizabeth Barrett as to largely take the place
of greater physical strength. That she never relapsed into the conditions of morbid invalidism
is a marvel, and it is also an impressive testimony to the power of spiritual energy to control
and determine physical conditions.

All through that summer the letters run on, daily, semi-daily. Of his work Browning writes
that he shall be "prouder to begin one day,--may it be soon!--with your hand in mine from the
beginning." Miss Barrett, referring to the Earl of Compton, who is reported from Rome as having
achieved some prominence as a painter, proceeds to say:

    "People in general would rather be Marquises than Roman artists,
    consulting their own wishes and inclination. I, for my part, ever
    since I could speak my mind and knew it, always openly and inwardly
    preferred the glory of those who live by their heads, to the opposite
    glory of those who carry other people's arms. So much for glory.
    Happiness goes the same way to my fancy. There is something
    fascinating to me in that Bohemian way of living.... All the
    conventions of society cut so close and thin, that the soul can see
    through.... Beyond, above. It is real life as you say ... whether at
    Rome or elsewhere. I am very glad that you like simplicity in habits
    of life--it has both reasonableness and sanctity.... I am glad that
    you--who have had temptation enough, more than enough, I am sure, in
    every form--have lived in the midst of this London of ours, close to
    the great social vortex, yet have kept so safe, and free, and calm,
    and pure from the besetting sins of our society."

Browning, in one letter, alluding to the prevailing stupidity of the idea that genius and domestic
happiness are incompatible, says: "We will live the real answer, will we not?... A man of genius
mistreats his wife; well, take away the genius,--does he so instantly improve?"

Of the attitude of his family toward their marriage he writes:

    "My family all love you, dearest,--you cannot conceive my father's and
    mother's childlike faith in goodness--and my sister is very
    high-spirited, and quick of apprehension--so as to seize the true
    point of the case at once.... Last night I asked my father, who was
    absorbed over some old book, if he should not be glad to see his new
    daughter?--to which he, starting, replied, 'Indeed I shall'; with such
    a fervor as to make my mother laugh,--not abated by his adding: 'And
    how I should be glad of her seeing Sarianna!'"

And she writes:

    "Shall we go to Greece, then, Robert? Let us, if you like it. When we
    have used a little the charm of your Italy,... I should like to see
    Athens with my living eyes.... Athens was in all the dreams I dreamed,
    before I knew you. Why should we not see Athens, and Egypt, too, and
    float down the mystical Nile, and stand in the shadow of the Pyramids?
    All of it is more possible now, than walking up the street seemed to
    me last year."

And he writes that he always felt her "Wine of Cyprus" poem to fill his heart "with unutterable
desires."

To book-lovers the question as to how many books may be taken on a journey, or what volumes,
indeed, may be left behind, is a vital one. The reader will smile sympathetically at Miss Barrett's
consultation with Browning as to whether, if they do "achieve the peculiar madness of going
to Italy," they could take any books? And whether it would be well to so arrange that they
should not take duplicates? He advises the narrowest compass for luggage. "We can return for
what we want, or procure it abroad," he says, made wise by his two Italian journeys; and he adds:

    "I think the fewer books we take the better; they take up room,--and
    the wise way always seemed to me to read at home, and open one's eyes
    and see abroad. A critic somewhere mentioned that as my
    characteristic--there were two other poets he named placed in novel
    circumstances ... in a great wood, for instance, Mr. Trench would
    begin opening books to see how woods were treated ... the other man
    would set to writing poetry forthwith,--and R. B. would sit still and
    learn how to write after! A pretty compliment, I thought that. But,
    seriously, there must be a great library at Pisa (with that
    University) and abroad they are delighted to facilitate such
    matters.... I have read in a chamber of the Doges' palace at Venice
    painted all over by Tintoretto, walls and ceiling, and at Rome there
    is a library with a learned priest always kept ready 'to solve any
    doubts that may arise.'"

Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett were married on September 12, 1846, in the church of
St. Pancras, Marylebone, the only witnesses being his cousin, James Silverthorne, and her maid,
Wilson. To have taken her sisters into her confidence would have been to expose them to the
fairly insane wrath of her father. "I hate and loathe everything which is clandestine--we both
do, Robert and I," said Mrs. Browning later; but this was the only possible way. Had Mr. Browning
spoken to her father in the usual manner, "he would have been forbidden the house without a
moment's scruple," she explained to a friend; "and I should have been incapacitated from any
after exertion by the horrible scenes to which, as a thing of course, I should have been exposed....
I cannot bear some words. Also, up to the very last, we stood in the light of day for the whole
world, if it please, to judge us. I never saw him out of the Wimpole Street house. He came
twice a week to see me, openly in the sight of all."

In no act of her life did Mrs. Browning more impressively reveal her good sense than in this
of her marriage.

After the marriage ceremony Mrs. Browning drove with her maid to the home of Mr. Boyd, resting
there, as if making a morning call on a familiar friend, until joined by her sisters, who took
her for a little drive on Hampstead Heath. For five days she remained in her father's house,
and during this time Browning could not bring himself to call and ask for his wife as "Miss
Barrett," so they arranged all the details of their journey by letter. On September 19 they
left for Paris, and the last one of these immortal letters, written the evening before their
departure, from Mrs. Browning to her husband, contains these words:

    "By to-morrow at this time I shall have you, only, to love me, my
    beloved! You, only! As if one said, God, only! And we shall have Him
    beside, I pray of Him!"

With her maid, Mrs. Browning walked out of her father's house the next day, meeting her husband
at a bookseller's around the corner of the street, and they drove to the station, leaving for
Southampton to catch the night boat to Havre.

Never could the world have understood the ineffable love and beauty and nobleness of the characters
of both Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, had these letters been withheld from the public.
Quite aside from the deeper interest of their personal revelation,--the revelation of such
nobleness and such perfect mutual comprehension and tenderness of sympathy as are here revealed,--the
pages are full of interesting literary allusion and comment, of wit, repartee, and of charm
that defies analysis. It was a wise and generous gift when the son of the poets, Robert Barrett
Browning, gave these wonderful letters to the reading public. The supreme test of literature
is that which contributes to the spiritual wealth of the world. Measured by this standard,
these are of the highest literary order. No one can fail to realize how all that is noblest
in manhood, all that is holiest in womanhood, is revealed in this correspondence.

Edmund Clarence Stedman, after reading these letters, said: "It would have been almost a crime
to have permitted this wonderful, exceptional interchange of soul and mind, between these two
strong, 'excepted' beings, to leave no trace forever."

Robert Barrett Browning, in referring to his publication of this correspondence in a conversation
with the writer of this volume, remarked that he really had no choice in the matter, as the
Apochryphal legends and myths and improvisations that had even then begun to weave themselves
about the remarkable and unusual story of the acquaintance, courtship, and marriage of his
parents, could only be dissipated by the simple truth, as revealed in their own letters.

Their love took its place in the spiritual order; it was a bond that made itself the mystic
force in their mutual development and achievement; and of which the woman, whose reverence
for the Divine Life was the strongest element in her nature, could yet say,--

  "And I, who looked for only God, found thee!"

Life, as well as Literature, would have been the poorer had not Mr. Barrett Browning so wisely
and generously enriched both by the publication of this correspondence.

Not the least among the beautiful expressions that have been made by those spirits so touched
to fine issues as to enter into the spiritual loveliness of these letters of Robert Browning
and Elizabeth Barrett, is a sonnet by a New England poet, Rev. William Brunton,--a poet who
"died too soon," but whose love for the poetry of the Brownings was as ardent as it was finely
appreciative:

  "Oh! dear departed saints of highest song,
    Behind the screen of time your love lay hid,
    Its fair unfoldment was in life forbid--
  As doing such divine affection wrong,
  But now we read with interest deep and strong,
    And lift from off the magic jar the lid,
    And lo! your spirit stands the clouds amid
  And speaks to us in some superior tongue!

  "Devotion such as yours is heavenly-wise,
    And yet the possible of earth ye show;
  Ye dwellers in the blue of summer skies,
    Through you a finer love of love we know;
  It is as if the angels moved with men,
  And key of Paradise were found again!"

CHAPTER VI

1846-1850

  "And on her lover's arm she leant
    And round her waist she felt it fold,
  And far across the hills they went
    To that new world which is the old.
  Across the hills, and far away,
    Beyond their utmost purple rim,
  Beyond the night, beyond the day,
    Through all the world she followed him."

Paris, "and such a strange week it was," wrote Mrs. Browning to Miss Mitford; "whether in the
body, or out of the body, I can scarcely tell. Our Balzac should be flattered beyond measure
by my even thinking of him at all." The journey from London to Paris was not then quite the
swift and easy affair it now is, the railroad between Paris and Havre not being then completed
beyond Rouen; still, such an elixir of life is happiness that Mrs. Browning arrived in the
French Capital feeling much better than when she left London. Mrs. Jameson had only recently
taken leave of Miss Barrett on her sofa, and sympathetically offered to take her to Italy herself
for the winter with her niece; Miss Barrett had replied: "Not only am I grateful to you, but
happy to be grateful to you," but she had given no hint of the impending marriage. Mrs. Jameson's
surprise, on receiving a note from Mrs. Browning, saying she was in Paris, was so great that
her niece, Geraldine Bate (afterward Mrs. MacPherson of Rome), asserted that her aunt's amazement
was "almost comical." Mrs. Jameson lost no time in persuading the Brownings to join her and
her niece at their quiet pension in the Rue Ville l'Eveque, where they remained for a week,--this
"strange week" to Mrs. Browning.

In Paris they visited the galleries of the Louvre, but did little sight-seeing beyond, "being
satisfied with the idea of Paris," she said.

As for ways and means, however, the Brownings were sufficiently provided. He had a modest independence,
and she also had in her own right a little fortune of some forty thousand pounds, yielding
three or four hundred pounds a year; but in the July preceding their marriage Browning, with
his sensitive honor, insisted upon her making a will bequeathing this capital to her own family.
In a letter to him dated July 27 of that summer the story of his insistence on this is revealed
in her own words: "I will write the paper as you bid me.... You are noble in all things ...
but I will not discuss it so as to tease you.... I send you the paper therefore, to that end,
and only to that end...." The "document," by Browning's insistence, gave her property to her
two sisters, in equal division, or, in case of their death, to the surviving brothers. Nothing
less than this would satisfy Robert Browning.

Meantime, there was the natural London comment. Wordsworth observed: "So Robert Browning and
Elizabeth Barrett have gone off together! It is to be hoped they can understand each other,
for no one else can."

Mr. Kenyon wrote "the kindest letter" to them both, and pronounced them "justified to the uttermost,"
and to Mrs. Browning he said: "I considered that you had imperiled your life upon this undertaking
and I still thought you had done wisely!" But by that magic alchemy of love and happiness Mrs.
Browning only gained constantly in strength, and Mrs. Jameson pronounced them "wise people,
whether wild poets or not."

Among the interesting comments on the marriage was Joseph Arnould's letter to Alfred Domett,
under date of November of that year. He wrote:

    "... I think the last piece of news I told you of was Browning's
    marriage to Miss Barrett. She is, you know, our present greatest
    living English poetess: ... she has been in the most absolute and
    enforced seclusion from society; cultivating her mind to a wonderful
    amount of accomplishment, instructing herself in all languages,
    reading Chrysostom in the original Greek, and publishing the best
    metrical translation that has yet appeared of the 'Prometheus
    Bound'--having also found time to write three volumes of poetry, the
    last of which raised her name to a place second only to that of
    Browning and Tennyson, amongst all those who are not repelled by
    eccentricities of external form from penetrating into the soul and
    quintessential spirit of poetry that quickens the mould into which the
    poet has cast it. Well, this lady, so gifted, so secluded, so
    tyrannized over, fell in love with Browning in the spirit before ever
    she saw him in the flesh--in plain English, loved the writer, before
    she knew the man. Imagine, you who know him, the effect which his
    graceful bearing, high demeanor, and noble speech must have had on
    such a mind when first she saw the man of her visions in the twilight
    of her darkened room. She was at once in love as a poet-soul only can
    be; and Browning, as by contagion or electricity, was no less from
    the first interview wholly in love with her.... He is a glorious
    fellow! Oh, I forgot to say that the soi-disante invalid, once
    emancipated from the paternal despotism, has had a wondrous revival,
    or rather, a complete metamorphosis; walks, rides, eats, and drinks
    like a young and healthy woman,--in fact, is a healthy woman of, I
    believe, some five and thirty. But one word covers all; they are in
    Love, who lends his own youth to everything."

The journey from Paris to Italy, if less comfortable and expeditious than now, was certainly
more romantic, and the Brownings, in company with Mrs. Jameson and her niece, fared forth to
Orleans, and thence to Avignon, where they rested for two days, making a poetic pilgrimage
to Vaucluse, where Petrarca had sought solitude.

From Marseilles they sailed to Livorno (Leghorn), the port only a few miles from Pisa. The
voyage was a delight to Mrs. Browning. She was enchanted with the beautiful panorama of the
Riviera as they sailed down the coast, where the terraces of mountains rise, with old castles
and ruins often crowning their summits, and the white gleam of the hill-towns against a background
of blue sky. All the Spezzia region was haunted by memories of Shelley; Lerici, where last
he had lived, was plainly in view, and they gazed sadly at Viareggio, encircled by pine woods
and mountains, where the body of the poet had been found. In Pisa they took rooms in the Collegio
Fernandino, in the Piazza del Duomo, in that corner of Pisa wherein are grouped the Cathedral,
the Baptistery, the Leaning Tower, and the Campo Santo, all in this consummate beauty of silence
and seclusion,--a splendor of abandoned glory. All the stir of life (if, indeed, one may dream
of life in Pisa) is far away on the other side of the city; to this corner is left the wraith-like
haunted atmosphere, where only shadows flit over the grass, and the sunset reflections linger
on the Tower. A statue of Cosimo di Medici was near; the Lanfranchi palace, where Byron had
lived, was not far away, on the banks of the Arno. They quite preferred the Duomo and the Campo
Santo to social festivities, and Professor Ferrucci offered them all the hospitalities of the
University library. At nine we have our supper of roast chestnuts and grapes.... My head goes
round sometimes.

That in London Mrs. Jameson, on her first call on Miss Barrett, should have so winningly insisted
on being admitted to her room as to be successful, almost to Miss Barrett's own surprise, seems,
when seen in connection with the way in which Fate was to throw them together afterward, in
Italy, to have been one of those "foreordained" happenings of life.

They heard a musical mass for the dead in the Campo Santo; they walked under orange trees with
golden fruit hanging above their heads; they took drives to the foot of the mountains, and
watched the reflections in the little lake of Ascuno. Mrs. Browning, from her windows, could
see the cathedral summit glitter whitely, between the blue sky and its own yellow marble walls.
All of these things entered into the very fiber of their Pisan days. Pisa seemed to her a beautiful
town,--it could not be less, she felt, with Arno and its palaces, and it was to her full of
repose, but not desolate. Meantime, Mr. Browning was preparing for a new edition of his collected
poems.

Curiously, all the biographers of Robert Browning have recorded that it was during this sojourn
in Pisa that the "Sonnets from the Portuguese" were first made known to him. Dr. Dowden quotes
the story as given by Mr. Edmund Gosse, and Mr. Gosse cites Browning himself as his authority.
Yet there was some mistake, as the Sonnets were not seen by Mr. Browning till some time later.

Robert Barrett Browning, in Florence, in the spring of 1910, in reply to a question asked by
the writer of this book in regard to the accuracy of this impression, replied that both Mr.
Gosse and Dr. Dowden were mistaken; as his mother did not show these "Sonnets" to his father
until the summer of 1849, when they were at Bagni di Lucca. Mr. Gosse must in some way have
mistaken Mr. Browning's words, and the error has perpetuated itself through every successive
biography of the poet.

The first home of the Brownings in Florence was in an apartment near Santa Maria Novella, where
the Italian sunshine burned fiercely, and where Mrs. Browning exclaimed that she began to comprehend
the possibility of St. Lawrence's ecstasies on the gridiron.

There was a five days' interlude at Vallombrosa, which the poets vainly entreated the monks
to prolong to two months, but the brethren would have none of the presence of two women,--Mrs.
Browning and her maid, Wilson. So they perforce left these fascinating hills, "a sea of hills
looking alive among the clouds." Still further up above the monastery was the old Hermitage
now transformed into a hotel. It was here that Migliorotti passed many years, asserting that
he could only think of it as Paradise, and thus it came to be known as Paradisino, the name
it still bears. Far below in a dim distance lies Florence, with her domes and towers on which
the sunshine glitters, or the white moonlight of the Val d'Arno shines; and on every hand are
the deep valleys and crevasses, the Val di Sieve, the Val di Casentino, and the height of San
Miniato in Alpe. Castles and convents, or their ruins, abound; and here Dante passed, and there
St. Benedict, and again is the path still holy with the footsteps of St. Francis. The murmuring
springs that feed the Arno are heard in the hills; and the vast solitudes of the wood, with
their ruined chapels and shrines, made this sojourn to the Brownings something to be treasured
in memory forever. They even wandered to that beautiful old fifteenth-century church, Santa
Maria delle Grazie Vallombrosella, "a daughter of the monastery of Vallombrosa," where were
works of Robbia, and saw the blue hills rise out of the green forests in their infinite expanse.

When they fared forth for Vallombrosa, it was at four o'clock in the morning, Mrs. Browning
being all eagerness and enthusiasm for this matutinal pilgrimage. Reaching Pelago, their route
wound for five miles along a "via non rotabile," through the most enchanting scenery, to Pontassieve.

While the Brownings were in Vallombrosa Arnould wrote to Alfred Domett:

    "Browning is spending a luxurious year in Italy--is, at this present
    writing, with his poetess bride dwelling in some hermit hut in
    Vallombrosa, where the Etruscan shades high overarched embower. He
    never fails to ask pressingly about you, and I give him all your
    messages. I would to God he would purge his style of
    obscurities,--that the wide world would, and the gay world and even
    the less illuminated part of the thinking world, know his greatness
    even as we do. I find myself reading 'Paracelsus' and the 'Dramatic
    Lyrics' more often than anything else in verse."

They descended, perforce, into Florence again, burning sunshine and all,
the abbot of the monastery having someway confounded their pleadings with
the temptation of St. Anthony, as something to be as heroically resisted.
They set up their household gods in the shades of the Via delle Belle
Donne, near the Duomo, where dinners, "unordered," Mrs. Browning said,
"come through the streets, and spread themselves on our table, as hot as
if we had smelt cutlets hours before." She found Florence "unspeakably
beautiful," both by grace of nature and of art, but they planned to go to
Rome in the early autumn, taking an apartment "over the Tarpeian rock."
Later this plan was relinquished, and with an apartment on their hands for
six months they yet abandoned it, for want of sunshine, and removed to
Casa Guidi. The consequence was that
    we had to pay heaps of guineas away, for leave to go, ourselves, but
    you can scarcely fancy the wonderful difference which the sun makes in
    Italy.

Mrs. Browning's dog, Flush, was a member of the household not to be ignored, and her one source
of consolation, in being turned away from the Vallombrosa summer, lay in the fact that "Flush
hated it," and was frightened by the vast and somber pine forests. "Flush likes civilized life,"
said Mrs. Browning laughingly, "and the society of little dogs with turned-up tails, such as
abound in Florence."

So now they bestowed themselves in "rooms yellow with sunshine from morning till night," in
Casa Guidi, where, "for good omen," they looked down on the old gray church of San Felice.
Its old pictures of saints, gazing sadly from their sepulchral frames of black wood, with here
and there a tapestry, and with the lofty, massive bookcases of Florentine carving, all gave
the room a medieval look. Almost could one fancy that it enthroned the "fairy lady of Shalott,"
who might weave

          "... from day to day,
  A magic web of colors gay."

Dante's grave profile, a cast of the face of Keats taken after death, and a few portraits of
friends, added their interest to the atmosphere of a salon that seemed made for poets' uses.
There were vast expanses of mirrors in the old carved Florentine frames, a colossal green velvet
sofa, suggesting a catafalque, and a supernaturally deep easy-chair, in the same green velvet,
which was Mrs. Browning's favorite seat when she donned her singing robes. Near this low arm-chair
was always her little table, strewn with writing materials, books, and newspapers. Other tables
in the salotto bore gayly bound volumes, the gifts of brother authors. On the floor of a bedroom
were the arms (in scabola), of the last count who had lived in this apartment, and there was
a picturesque oil-jar, to hold rain-water, which Mrs. Browning declared would just hold the
Captain of the Forty Thieves. All in all, the poets vowed they would not change homes with
the Grand Duke himself, who was their neighbor in the Palazzo Pitti at the distance of a stone's
throw. In the late afternoons they would wander out to the Loggia dei Lanzi, where Mrs. Browning
greatly admired Cellini's Perseus with the Head of Medusa, and they watched "the divine sunsets
on the Arno, turning it to pure gold under the bridges." Sometimes they were joined by Hiram
Powers, who was one of their earliest friends in Florence, "our chief friend and favorite,"
Mrs. Browning said of him, and she found him a "simple, straightforward, genial American, as
simple as the man of genius he has proved himself need be." Another friend of these early days
was Miss Boyle, a niece of the Earl of Cork, somewhat a poet, withal, who, with her mother,
was domiciled in the Villa Careggi, in which Lorenzo il Magnifico died, and which was loaned
to the Boyles by Lord Holland. Miss Boyle frequently dropped in on them in the evening, "to
catch us at hot chestnuts and mulled wine," said Mrs. Browning, "and a good deal of laughing
she and Robert make between them." The ideal and poetic life of Mrs. Browning, so far from
isolating her from the ordinary day and daylight duties, invested these, instead, with glow
and charm and playful repartee; and, indeed, her never-failing sense of humor transformed any
inconvenience or inadvertence into amusement. She, who is conceded to have written the finest
sonnets since Shakespeare, could also mend a coat for her husband with a smile and a Greek epigram.

Joseph Arnould again wrote to their mutual friend, Domett:

    "Browning and his wife are still in Florence; both ravished with Italy
    and Italian life; so much so, that I think for some years they will
    make it the Paradise of their poetical exile. I hold fast to my faith
    in 'Paracelsus.' Browning and Carlyle are my two crowning men amongst
    the highest English minds of the day. Third comes Alfred Tennyson....
    By-the-bye, did you ever happen upon Browning's 'Pauline'? a strange,
    wild (in parts singularly magnificent) poet-biography; his own early
    life as it presented itself to his own soul viewed poetically; in
    fact, psychologically speaking, his 'Sartor Resartus'; it was written
    and published three years before 'Paracelsus,' when Shelley was his
    God."

A little later Arnould wrote again:

    "Browning and his wife are still in Florence, and stay there till the
    summer; he is bringing out another edition of his poems (except
    'Sordello'), Chapman and Hall being his publishers, Moxon having
    declined. He writes always most affectionately, and never forgets kind
    inquiries about and kind messages to you."

Allured by resplendent tales of Fano, the Brownings made a trip to that seaside hamlet, but
found it uninhabitable in the late summer heat. A statue in the Piazza commemorated the ancient
Fanum Fortunæ of tradition, and in the cathedral of San Fortunato were frescoes by Domenichino,
and in the chiesa of Sant' Agostino was the celebrated painting of Sant' Angelo Custode, by
Guercino, which suggested to Browning his poem "The Guardian Angel." The tender constancy of
Browning's friendship for Alfred Domett is in evidence in this poem, and the beauty of his
reference to his wife,--

  "My angel with me, too,..."

lingers with the reader.

In no poem of his entire work has Browning given so complete a revelation of his own inner
life as in this memorable lyric. The picture, dim as is the light in which it is seen, is one
of the most impressive of all Guercino's works. In the little church of San Paterniano is a
"Marriage of the Virgin," by Guercino, and in the Palazzo del Municipio of Fano is Guercino's
"Betrothal of the Virgin," and the "David" of Domenichino.

The Brownings while in Fano made the excursion to the summit of Monte Giove, an hour's drive
from the Piazza, where was the old monastery and a wonderful view of the Adriatic, and of the
panorama of the Apennines. They went on to Loreto, and then to Ravenna, where in the early
dawn of a summer morning they stood by the tomb of Dante, deeply touched by the inscription.
All through this journey they had "wonderful visions of beauty and glory." Returning to Florence,
to their terraces, orange trees, and divine sunsets, one of their earliest visitors in Casa
Guidi was Father Prout, who had chanced to be standing on the dock at Livorno when they first
landed in Italy, from the journey from France, and who now appeared in Florence on his way
to Rome. Mr. Browning had fallen ill after their trip to Fano, and Father Prout prescribed
for him "port wine and eggs," which régime, combined with the racy conversation of the genial
priest, seemed efficacious.

In the meantime Mrs. Browning stood with her husband by the tomb of Michael Angelo in Santa
Croce; she saw the Venus, the "divine Raphaels." The Peruzzi chapel had then recently been
restored--some exquisite frescoes by Giotto being among the successful restorations. The "mountainous
marble masses" of the Duomo, "tessellated marbles climbing into the sky, self-crowned with
that prodigy of marble domes," struck Mrs. Browning as the wonder of all architecture.

The political conditions of Italy began to enlist her interest. In June of 1846 Pio Nono had
ascended the Papal throne, preceded by a reputation for a liberal policy, and it was even hoped
that he would not oppose the formation of a United Italy. The papal and the temporal government
was still one, but Pius IX was a statesman as well as a churchman. England had especially commissioned
Lord Minto to advocate reform, and the enthusiasts for Italian liberty received him with acclaim.
The disasters of 1848 were still in the unrevealed future, and a new spirit was stirring all
over the Italian kingdom. Piedmont was looked to with hope; and the Grand Duke of Tuscany had
instituted a National Guard, as the first step toward popular government. The great topic of
the day was the new hope of Italy. In Florence the streets and piazzas were vocal with praises
of the Grand Duke. On one night that Browning went to the opera the tumult grew intense, and
the Duke was escorted back to Palazzo Pitti with thousands of wax torchlights and a blaze of
glory and cries of "Eviva! Eviva!" Browning, however, distrusted Pio Nono, thinking him weak,
and events proved that his opinion was justified.

The winter of 1847-1848 was passed by the Brownings in Casa Guidi.

The poets were constantly engaged in their work. Mrs. Browning began her long poem, "Casa Guidi
Windows," and many of Browning's lyrics that appeared in the collection called "Men and Women"
were written at this period. They passed much time in the galleries and churches. They drove
in the beautiful environs of Florence. The pictures, history, and legends entered into their
lives to serve in later days as poetic material. In the brief twilight of winter days they
often strolled into the old gray church of San Felice, on which their windows looked out, where
Browning would gratify his passion for music by evolving from the throbbing keys of the organ
some faint Toccata of Galuppi's, while his wife smiled and listened, and the tide of Florentine
life flowed by in the streets outside. Casa Guidi is almost opposite the Palazzo Pitti, so
that Mrs. Browning had easy access to her beloved Madonnas in the Pitti gallery, which to her
husband, also, was so unfailing a resource.

One of Mrs. Browning's American admirers, and one of the reviewers of her poems, George Stillman
Hillard, visited Florence that winter, and passed more than one evening in Casa Guidi with
the Brownings.

Of all Italy Mr. Hillard perhaps best loved Florence, finding there an indescribable charm,
"a blending of present beauty and traditional interest; but then Florence is alive," he added,
"and not enslaved." It was probably Hillard who suggested to William Wetmore Story that he
should meet Browning. At all events this meeting took place, initiating the friendship that
endured "forty years, without a break," and that was one of the choicest social companionships.

The spring of 1849 brought new joy to Casa Guidi, for on March 9 was born their son, who was
christened Robert Wiedemann Barrett, the middle name (which in his manhood he dropped) being
the maiden name of the poet's mother. The passion of both husband and wife for poetry was now
quite equaled by that for parental duties, which they "caught up," said Mrs. Browning, "with
a kind of rapture." Mr. Browning would walk the terraces where orange trees and oleanders blossomed,
with the infant in his arms, and in the summer, when they visited Spezzia, and the haunt of
Shelley at Lurici, they wandered five miles into the mountains, the baby with them, on horseback
and donkey-back. The child grew rounder and rosier; and Mrs. Browning was able to climb hills
and help her husband to lose himself in the forests.

The death of Browning's mother immediately after the birth of his son was a great sadness to
the poet, and one fully shared by his wife, who wrote to Miss Browning: "I grieve with you,
as well as for you; for though I never saw her face, I loved that pure and tender spirit....
Robert and I dwell on the hope that you and your father will come to us at once.... If Florence
is too far off, is there any other place where we could meet and arrange for the future?"

The Brownings went for the summer to Bagni di Lucca, after the little détour on the Mediterranean
coast, where they lingered in the white marble mountains of Carrara. In Lucca they passed long
summer hours in the beautiful Duomo, which had been consecrated by Pope Alexander II in the
eleventh century. The beauty and the solitude charmed the poets; the little Penini was the
"most popular of babies," and when Wilson carried the child out in the sunshine the Italians
would crowd around him and exclaim, "Che bel bambino!" They had given him the pet Italian name
"Penini," which always persisted. The Austrians had then taken possession of Florence, and
Leopoldo, "L'intrepido," as the Italians asserted, remained quietly in the Palazzo Pitti. The
poet with his wife and Wilson and the baby made almost daily excursions into the forests and
mountains, up precipitous fays and over headlong ravines; dining "with the goats," while the
baby "lay on a shawl, rolling and laughing." The contrast of this mountain-climbing Mrs. Browning,
with her husband and child, and the Miss Barrett of three or four years before, lying on a
sofa in a darkened room, is rather impressive.

It was during this villeggiatura that Mrs. Browning, one morning after their breakfast, with
shy sweetness, tucked the pages of the "Sonnets" into her husband's pocket and swiftly vanished.
Robert Barrett Browning, who, as already noted, gave the history of this poetic interlude viva
voce, has also recorded it in writing, as follows:

What earthly vocabulary can offer fit words in which to speak of celestial beauty? How these
exquisite "Sonnets" tell the story of that romance of Genius and Love,--from the woman's first
thrill of interest in the poetry of an unknown poet, to the hour when he, "the princely giver,"
brought to her "the gold and purple" of his heart

  "For such as I to take or leave withal,"

and she questions

  "Can it be right to give what I can give?"

with the fear that her delicacy of health should make such gifts

  "Be counted with the ungenerous."

Returning to Florence in October, Browning soon began the preparation for his poem, "Christmas
Eve and Easter Day," and Mrs. Browning arranged for a new one-volume edition of her poems,
to include "The Seraphim," and the poems that had appeared in the same volume, and also the
poems appearing in 1844, many of them revised.

Marchesa d'Ossoli, whom the Brownings had heretofore known as Margaret Fuller, surprised them
by appearing in Florence with her husband and child, the private marriage having taken place
some two years before. The Greenoughs, the Storys, and Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Pearse Cranch
were all in Florence, and were all habitués of Casa Guidi. Mr. Cranch, poet, painter, and musician,
was the kindly friend of Longfellow and of Lowell in their Cambridge homes, and the Greenoughs
and Storys were also of the Cambridge circle. To friends at home the Marchesa wrote of going
to the opera with the Greenoughs, and that she saw the Brownings often, "and I love and admire
them more and more," she continued. "Mr. Browning enriches every hour passed with him, and
he is a most true, cordial, and noble man."

The Florentine days have left their picturings: Mr. Story opens a studio, and while he is modeling,
Mrs. Story reads to him from Monckton Milnes's Life of Keats, which Mr. Browning loaned them.
Mrs. Story drives to Casa Guidi to carry Mrs. Browning her copy of "Jane Eyre," and Mrs. Greenough
takes both Mrs. Story and Mrs. Browning to drive in the Cascine. Two American painters, Frank
Boott and Frank Heath, are in Florence, and are more or less caught up in the Casa Guidi life;
and the coterie all go to Mrs. Trollope's to see fancy costumes arranged for a ball to be given
at Sir George Hamilton's. In one of the three villas on Bellosguardo Miss Isa Blagden was now
domiciled. For more than a quarter of a century Miss Blagden was a central figure in English
society in Florence. She became Mrs. Browning's nearest and most intimate friend, and she was
the ardently prized friend of the Trollopes also, and of Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who shared
her villa during one spring when Florence was in her most radiant beauty. "Isa was a very bright,
warm-hearted, clever little woman," said Thomas Adolphus Trollope of her; "who knew everybody,
and was, I think, more universally beloved among us than any other individual." Miss Blagden
had written one or two novels, of little claim, however, and after her death a small volume
of her poems was published, but all these had no more than the mere succès d'estime, as apparently
the pen was with her, as with Margaret Fuller, a non-conductor; but as a choice spirit, of
the most beautiful and engaging qualities of companionship, "Isa," as she was always caressingly
called, is still held in memory. Madame Pasquale Villari, the wife of the great historian and
the biographer of Machiavelli and of Savonarola, well remembers Miss Blagden, who died, indeed,
in her arms in the summer of 1872.

The intimate friendship between Mrs. Browning and Miss Blagden was initiated in the early months
of the residence of the Brownings in Florence; but it was in this winter of 1849-1850 that
they began to see each other so constantly. The poems of Matthew Arnold were published that
winter, among which Mrs. Browning especially liked "The Deserted Merman" and "The Sick King
of Bokkara," and about this time the authorship of "Jane Eyre" was revealed, and Charlotte
Brontë discovered under the nom-de-plume of Currer Bell.

During the time that Mrs. Browning had passed at Torquay, before her marriage, she had met
Theodosia Garrow, whose family were on intimate terms with Mr. Kenyon. Miss Barrett and Miss
Garrow became friends, and when they met again it was in Florence, Miss Garrow having become
the wife of Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Hiram Powers in these days was domiciled in the Via dei
Serragli, in close proximity to Casa Guidi, and he frequently dropped in to have his morning
coffee with the Brownings.

Landor had been for some years in his villa on the Fiesolean slope, not far from Maiano, where
Leigh Hunt had wandered, dreaming of Boccaccio. Two scenes of the "Decameron" were laid in
this region, and the deep ravine at the foot of one of the neighboring hills was the original
of the "Valley of the Ladies." Not far away had been the house of Machiavelli; and nestling
among the blue hills was the little white village of Settignano, where Michael Angelo was born.
Leigh Hunt had been on terms of the most cordial intimacy with Landor, whom he described as
"living among his paintings and hospitalities"; and Landor had also been visited by Emerson,
and by Lord and Lady Blessington, by Nathaniel Parker Willis (introduced by Lady Blessington),
by Greenough, Francis and Julius Hare, and by that universal friend of every one, Mr. Kenyon,
all before the arrival of the Brownings in Florence. Landor had, however, been again in England
for several years, where Browning and Miss Barrett had both met and admired him, as has been
recorded.

The Florence on which the Brownings had entered differed little from the Florence of to-day.
The Palazzo Pitti, within a stone's throw of Casa Guidi, stood in the same cyclopean massiveness
as now; the piazza and church of San Miniato, cypress-shaded, rose from the sweep of the hills,
and the miraculous crucifix of San Giovanni Gualberto was then, as now, an object of pilgrimage.
The wonder of the Italian sunsets, that "perished silently of their own glory," burned away
over the far hills, and the strange, lofty tower of the Palazzo Vecchio caught the lingering
rays. Beyond the Porta Romana, not far from Casa Guidi, was the road to the Val d'Emo, where
the Certosa crowns an eminence. The stroll along the Arno at sunset was a favorite one with
the poets, and in late afternoons they often climbed the slope to the Boboli Gardens for the
view over Florence and the Val d'Arno. Nor did they ever tire of lingering in the Piazza della
Signoria, before the marvelous palace with its medieval tower, and standing before the colossal
fountain of Neptune, just behind the spot that is commemorated by a tablet in the pavement
marking the martyrdom of Savonarola. The great equestrian statue of Cosimo I always engaged
their attention in this historic piazza, which for four centuries had been the center of the
political life of the Florentines. All these places, the churches, monuments, palaces, and
the art of Florence, were fairly mirrored in the minds of the wedded poets, impressing their
imagination with the fidelity of an image falling on a sensitized plate. To them, as to all
who love and enter into the ineffable beauty of the City of Lilies, it was an atmosphere of
enchantment.

       "But Easter-Day breaks! But
  Christ rises! Mercy every way
  Is infinite,--and who can say?"

The Brownings were never for a moment caught up in the wave of popular enthusiasm for Pio Nono
that swept over Italy. Yet Mrs. Browning confessed herself as having been fairly "taken in"
by the Grand Duke of Tuscany. Had Blackwood's Magazine published Part I of her "Casa Guidi
Windows" at the time that she sent it to this periodical, the poem would have been its own
proof of her distrust of the Pope, but it would also have offered the same proof of her ill-founded
trust in the Grand Duke; so that, on the whole, she was well content to fail in having achieved
the distinction of a prophet regarding Pio Nono, as no Cassandra can afford to be convicted
of delusion in some portion of the details of her prophecy. To achieve lasting reputation as
a soothsayer, the prophecy must be accurate throughout. The fact that there was an interval
of three years between the first and the second parts of this poem accounts for the discrepancy
between them. In her own words she confessed:

  "I wrote a meditation and a dream,
    Hearing a little child sing in the street:
  I leant upon his music as a theme,
    Till it gave way beneath my heart's full beat
  Which tried at an exultant prophecy,
    But dropped before the measure was complete--
  Alas for songs and hearts! O Tuscany,
    O Dante's Florence, is the type too plain?"

The flashing lightnings of a betrayed people gleam like an unsheathed sword in another canto
beginning:

  "From Casa Guidi windows I looked forth,
  And saw ten thousand eyes of Florentines
  Flash back the triumph of the Lombard north."

These ardent lines explain how she had been misled, for who could dream at the time that Leopoldo
("l'Intrepido," as a poet of Viareggio called him in a truly Italian fervor of enthusiasm)
could have proved himself a traitor to these trusting people,--these tender-hearted, gentle,
courteous, refined Italians? All these attributes pre-eminently characterize the people; but
also Mrs. Browning's insight that "the patriots are not instructed, and the instructed are
not patriots," was too true. The adherents of the papal power were strong and influential,
and the personal character, whatever might be said of his political principles,--the personal
character of Pio Nono was singularly winning, and this was by no means a negligible factor
in the great problem then before Italy.

Mrs. Browning very wisely decided to let "Casa Guidi Windows" stand as written, with all the
inconsistency between its first and second parts, as each reflected what she believed true
at the time of writing; and it thus presents a most interesting and suggestive commentary on
Italian politics between 1850 and 1853. Its discrepancies are such "as we are called upon to
accept at every hour by the conditions of our nature," she herself said of it, "implying the
interval between aspiration and performance, between faith and disillusion, between hope and
fact." This discrepancy was more painful to her than it can be even to the most critical reader;
but the very nature of the poem, its very fidelity to the conditions and impressions of the
moment, give it great value, though these impressions were to be modified or canceled by those
of a later time; it should stand as it is, if given to the world at all. And the courage to
avow one's self mistaken is not the least of the forms that moral courage may assume.

Regarding Pio Nono, Mrs. Browning is justified by history, notwithstanding the many amiable
and beautiful qualities of the Pontiff which forever assure him a place in affection, if not
in political confidence. Even his most disastrous errors were the errors of judgment rather
than those of conscious intention. Pio Nono had the defects of his qualities, but loving and
reverent pilgrimages are constantly made to that little chapel behind the iron railing in the
old church of San Lorenzo Fuori le Mura in Rome (occupying the site of the church founded by
Constantine), where his body is entombed in a marble sarcophagus of the plainest design according
to his own instructions; but the interior of the vestibule is richly decorated with mosaic
paintings, the tribute of those who loved him.

Leopoldo was so kindly a man, so sincere in his work for the liberty of the press and for other
important reforms, that it is no marvel that Mrs. Browning invested him with resplendence of
gifts he did not actually possess, but which it was only logical to feel that such a man must
have. Sometimes a too complete reliance on the ex pede Herculem method of judgment is misleading.

While the cause of Italian liberty had the entire sympathy of Robert Browning, he was yet little
moved to use it as a poetic motive. Professor Hall Griffin suggests that it is possible that
Browning deliberately chose not to enter a field which his wife so particularly made her own;
but that is the less tenable as they never discussed their poetic work with each other, and
as a rule rarely showed to each other a single poem until it was completed.

The foreign society in Florence at this time included some delightful American sojourners,
for, beside the Storys and Hiram Powers (an especial friend of the Brownings), there were George
S. Hillard, George William Curtis, and the Marchesa d'Ossoli with her husband,--all of whom
were welcomed at Casa Guidi. The English society then in Florence was, as Mrs. Browning wrote
to Miss Mitford, "kept up much after the old English models, with a proper disdain for continental
simplicities of expense; and neither my health nor our pecuniary circumstances," she says,
"would admit of our entering it. The fact is, we are not like our child, who kisses everybody
who smiles on him! You can scarcely imagine to yourself how we have retreated from the kind
advances of the English here, and struggled with hands and feet to keep out of this gay society."
But it is alluring to imagine the charm of their chosen circle, the Storys always first and
nearest, and these other gifted and interesting friends.

Mr. Story is so universally thought of as a sculptor that it is not always realized how eminent
he was in the world of letters as well. Two volumes of his poems contain many of value, and
a few, as the "Cleopatra," "An Estrangement," and the immortal "Io Victis," that the world
would not willingly let die; his "Roba di Roma" is one of those absolutely indispensable works
regarding the Eternal City; and several other books of his, in sketch and criticism, enrich
literature. A man of the most courtly and distinguished manner, of flawless courtesy, an artist
of affluent expressions, it is not difficult to realize how congenial and delightful was his
companionship, as well as that of his accomplished wife, to the Brownings. Indeed, no biographical
record could be made of either household, with any completeness, that did not largely include
the other. In all the lovely chronicles of literature and life there is no more beautiful instance
of an almost lifelong friendship than that between Robert Browning and William Wetmore Story.

In this spring of 1850 Browning was at work on his "Christmas Eve and Easter Day," and Casa
Guidi preserved a liberal margin of quiet and seclusion. "You can scarcely imagine," wrote
Mrs. Browning, "the retired life we live.... We drive day by day through the lovely Cascine,
only sweeping through the city. Just such a window where Bianca Capello looked out to see the
Duke go by,--and just such a door where Tasso stood, and where Dante drew his chair out to sit."

When Curtis visited Florence he wrote to Browning begging to be permitted to call, and he was
one of the welcomed visitors in Casa Guidi. Browning took him on many of those romantic excursions
with which the environs of Florence abound,--to Settignano, where Michael Angelo was born;
to the old Roman amphitheater in Fiesole; to that somber, haunted summit of San Miniato, and
to Vallombrosa, where he played to Curtis some of the old Gregorian chants on an organ in the
monastery. Afterward, in a conversation with Longfellow, Mr. Curtis recalled a hymn by Pergolese
that Browning had played for him.

Tennyson's poem, "The Princess," went into the third edition that winter, and Mrs. Browning
observed that she knew of no poet, having claim solely through poetry, who had attained so
certain a success with so little delay. Hearing that Tennyson had remarked that the public
"hated poetry," Mrs. Browning commented that, "divine poet as he was, and no laurel being too
leafy for him," he must yet be unreasonable if he were not gratified with "so immediate and
so conspicuous a success."

Browning's "imprisoned splendor" found expression that winter in several lyrics, which were
included in the new (two volume) edition of his poems.

Among these were the "Meeting at Night," "Parting at Morning," "A Woman's Last Word," and "Evelyn
Hope." "Love among the Ruins," "Old Pictures in Florence," "Saul," and his "A Toccata of Galuppi's,"
all belong to this group.

No lyric that Robert Browning ever wrote is more haunting in its power and sweetness, or more
rich in significance, than "Evelyn Hope," with "that piece of geranium flower" in the glass
beside her beginning to die.

Mrs. Browning's touching lyric, "A Child's Grave at Florence," was published in the Athenæum
that winter; and in this occur the simple but appealing stanzas,--

  "Oh, my own baby on my knees,
      My leaping, dimpled treasure,

     *       *       *       *       *

  But God gives patience, Love learns strength,
      And Faith remembers promise;

     *       *       *       *       *

  Still mine! maternal rights serene
      Not given to another!
  The crystal bars shine faint between
      The souls of child and mother."

To this day, that little grave in the English cemetery in Florence, with its "A. A. E. C."
is sought out by the visitor. To Mrs. Browning the love for her own child taught her the love
of all mothers.

Florence "bristled with cannon" that winter, but nothing decisive occurred. The faith of the
Italian people in Pio Nono, however, grew less. The death of Wordsworth was another of the
events of this spring, leaving vacant the Laureateship. The Athenæum at once advocated the
appointment of Mrs. Browning, as one "eminently suitable under a female sovereign." Other literary
authorities coincided with this view, it seeming a sort of poetic justice that a woman poet
should be Laureate to a Queen. The Athenæum asserted that "there is no living poet of either
sex who can prefer a higher claim than Elizabeth Barrett Browning," but the honor was finally
conferred upon Tennyson, with the ardent approbation of the Brownings, who felt that his claim
was rightly paramount.

In the early summer the Marchese and Marchesa d'Ossoli, with their child, sailed on that ill-starred
voyage whose tragic ending startled the literary world of that day. Their last evening in Florence
was passed with the Brownings. The Marchesa expressed a fear of the voyage that, after its
fatal termination, was recalled by her friends as being almost prophetic. Curiously she gave
a little Bible to the infant son of the poets as a presentation from her own little child;
and Robert Barrett Browning still treasures, as a strange relic, the book on whose fly-leaf
is written "In memory of Angelino d'Ossoli." Mrs. Browning had a true regard for the Marchesa,
of whom she spoke as "a very interesting person, thoughtful, spiritual, in her habitual mode
of mind."

In his poetic creed, Browning deprecated nothing more entirely (to use a mild term where a
stronger would not be inappropriate) than that the poet should reveal his personal feeling
in his poem; and to the dramatic character of his own work he held tenaciously. He rebuked
the idea that Shakespeare "unlocked his heart" to his readers, and he warns them off from the
use of any fancied latch-key to his own inner citadel.

  "Which of you did I enable
    Once to slip inside my breast,
  There to catalogue and label
    What I like least, what love best?"

It was the knowledge of this intense and pervading conviction of her husband's that kept Mrs.
Browning so long from showing to him her exquisitely tender and sacred self-revelation in the
"Sonnets from the Portuguese." Yet it was in that very "One Word More" where Browning thanks
God for the "two soul-sides," that he most simply reveals himself, and also in "Prospice" and
in this "Christmas Eve and Easter Day." This poem, with its splendor of vision, was published
in 1850, with an immediate sale of two hundred copies, after which for the time the demand
ceased. William Sharp well designates it as a "remarkable Apologia for Christianity," for it
can be almost thought of in connection with Newman's "Apologia pro vita sua," and as not remote
from the train of speculative thought which Matthew Arnold wrought into his "Literature and
Dogma." It is very impressive to see how the very content of Hegelian Dialectic is the key-note
of Browning's art. "The concrete and material content of a life of perfected knowledge and
volition means one thing, only, love," teaches Hegelian philosophy. This, too, is the entire
message of Browning's poetry. Man must love God in the imperfect manifestation which is all
he can offer of God. He must relate the imperfect expression to the perfect aspiration.

  "All I aspired to be
  And was not--comforts me."

In the unfaltering search for the Divine Ideal is the true reward.

  "One great aim, like a guiding star, above--
  Which tasks strength, wisdom, stateliness, to lift
  His manhood to the height that takes the prize."

Browning conceived and presented the organic idea and ideal of life, in its fullness, its intensity,
as perhaps few poets have ever done. He would almost place a positive sin above a negative
virtue. To live intensely, even if it be sinfully, was to Browning's vision to be on the upward
way, rather than to be in a state of negative good. The spirit of man is its own witness of
the presence of God. Life cannot be truly lived in any fantastic isolation.

With Browning, as with Spinoza, there is an impatience, too, with the perpetual references
to death, and they both constantly turn to the everlasting truth of life. "It is this harping
on death that I despise so much," exclaimed Browning, in the later years of his life, in a
conversation with a friend.

After the completion of "Christmas Eve and Easter Day," Mrs. Browning questioned her husband
about the apparent asceticism of the second part of the poem, and he replied that he meant
it to show only one side of the matter. "Don't think," she wrote to a friend, "that Robert
has taken to the cilix,--indeed he has not, but it is his way to see things as passionately
as other people feel them."

Browning teaches in this poem that faith is an adventure of the spirit, the aspiration felt,
even if unnamed. But as to renunciation,--

  "'Renounce the world!'--Ah, were it done
  By merely cutting one by one
  Your limbs off, with your wise head last,
  How easy were it!"

The renunciation that the poet sees is not so simple. It is not to put aside all the allurements
of life, but to use them nobly; to persist in the life of the spirit, to offer love for hatred,
truth for falsehood, generous self-sacrifice rather than to grasp advantages,--to live, not
to forsake the common daily lot. It is, indeed, the philosophy amplified that is found in the
words of Jesus, "I pray not that Thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest
keep them from the evil."

The Brownings remained till late in the summer in their Casa Guidi home, detained at first
by the illness of Mrs. Browning, after which they decided to postpone going to England until
another year. They were located on a little hill called Poggia dei venti, with all the winds
of the heavens, indeed, blowing about them, and with overflowing quantities of milk and bread
and wine, and a loggia at the top of the villa. Mrs. Browning found herself rapidly recovering
strength, and their comfort was further extended by finding a library in Siena, where, for
three francs a month, they had access to the limited store of books which seem so luxurious
in Italy. The boy Browning was delighted with his new surroundings, his sole infelicity being
his inability to reach the grapes clustering over the trellises; he missed the Austrian band
that made music (or noise) for his delectation in Florence, although to compensate for this
privation he himself sang louder than ever. In after years Mr. Browning laughingly related
this anecdote of his son's childhood: "I was one day playing a delicate piece of Chopin's on
the piano, and hearing a loud noise outside, hastily stopped playing when my little boy ran
in, and my wife exclaimed: 'How could you leave off playing when Penini brought three drums
to accompany you?'"

For all this bloom and beauty in Siena they paid a little less than fifteen francs a week.
Soon after their arrival they learned of the shipwreck in which the Marchese and Marchesa d'Ossoli
and the little Angelino all perished, and the tragedy deeply impressed Mrs. Browning. "The
work that the Marchesa was preparing upon Italy would have been more equal to her faculties
than anything she has ever produced," said Mrs. Browning, "her other writings being curiously
inferior to the impression made by her conversation."

Before returning to Florence the Brownings passed a week in the town of Siena to visit the
pictures and churches, but they found it pathetic to leave the villa, and especially harrowing
to their sensibilities to part with the pig. There is consolation, however, for most mortal
sorrows, and the Brownings found it in their intense interest in Sienese art. The wonderful
pulpit of the Duomo, the work of Niccola Pisano; the font of San Giovanni; the Sodomas, and
the Libreria (the work of Pius III, which he built when he was Cardinal, and in which, at the
end of the aisle, is a picture of his own elevation to the Papal throne, painted after his
death) fascinated their attention. The Brownings found it dazzling to enter this interior,
all gold and color, with the most resplendent decorative effects. They followed in the footsteps
of Saint Catherine, as do all pilgrims to Siena, and climbed the hill to the Oratorio di Santa
Caterina in Fontebranda, and read that inscription: "Here she stood and touched that precious
vessel and gift of God, blessed Catherine, who in her life did so many miracles." They lingered,
too, in the Cappella Santa Caterina in San Domenico, where Catherine habitually prayed, where
she beheld visions and received her mystic revelations. They loitered in the piazza, watching
the stars hang over that aerial tower, "Il Mangia," and drove to San Gimignano, with its picturesque
medieval atmosphere.

It was in the autumn of 1850 that Tennyson's "In Memoriam," first privately and then anonymously
printed, was acknowledged by the poet. The Brownings read extracts from it in the Examiner,
and they were deeply moved by it. "Oh, there's a poet!" wrote Mrs. Browning. At last, "by a
sort of miracle," they obtained a copy, and Mrs. Browning was carried away with its exquisite
touch, its truth and earnestness. "The book has gone to my heart and soul," she says, "I think
it full of deep pathos and beauty."

An interesting visitor dropped in at Casa Guidi in the person of a grandson of Goethe; and
his mission to Florence, to meet the author of "Paracelsus" and discuss with him the character
of the poem, was a tribute to its power. Mrs. Browning, whose poetic ideals were so high, writing
to a friend of their guest, rambled on into some allusions to poetic art, and expressed her
opinion that all poets should take care to teach the world that poetry is a divine thing.

In "Aurora Leigh" she expresses the same sentiment in the lines:

                        "I, who love my art,
  Would never wish it lower to suit my stature."

Full of affection and interest are Mrs. Browning's letters to her husband's sister, Sarianna,
who, with her father, is now living in Hatcham, near London. In the spring of 1852, after passing
the winter in Florence, the Brownings set out for England; the plan at first being to go south
to Naples, pause at Rome, and then go northward; but this was finally abandoned, and they proceeded
directly to Venice, where Mrs. Browning was enchanted with life set in a scenic loveliness
of "music and stars."

"I have been between heaven and earth since our arrival in Venice," she writes.

In the divine beauty of Venetian evenings they sat in the white moonlight in the piazza of
San Marco, taking their coffee and the French papers together. Or they would go to the opera,
where for a ridiculously small sum they had an entire box to themselves. But while Mrs. Browning
longed "to live and die in Venice, and never go away," the climate did not agree with Mr. Browning,
and they journeyed on toward Paris, stopping one night at Padua and driving out to Arqua for
Petrarca's sake. In Milan Mrs. Browning climbed the three hundred and fifty steps, to the topmost
pinnacle of the glorious cathedral. At Como they abandoned the diligence for the boat, sailing
through that lovely chain of lakes to Flüelen, and thence to Lucerne, the scenery everywhere
impressing Mrs. Browning as being so sublime that she "felt as if standing in the presence
of God." From Lucerne they made a détour through Germany, pausing at Strasburg, and arriving
in Paris in July. This journey initiated an absence of almost a year and a half from Italy.
They had let their apartment, so they were quite free to wander, and they were even considering
the possibility of remaining permanently in Paris, whose brilliant intellectual life appealed
to them both. After a brief sojourn in the French capital, they went on to England, and they
had rather an embarrassment of riches in the number of houses proffered them, for Tennyson
begged them to accept the loan of his house and servants at Twickenham, and Joseph Arnould
was equally urgent that they should occupy his town house. But they took lodgings, instead,
locating in Devonshire Street, and London life proceeds to swallow them up after its own absorbing
fashion. They breakfast with Rogers, and pass an evening with the Carlyles; Forster gives a
"magnificent dinner" for them; Mrs. Fanny Kemble calls, and sends them tickets for her reading
of "Hamlet"; and the Proctors, Mrs. Jameson, and other friends abound. They go to New Cross,
Hatcham, to visit Mr. Browning's father and sister, where the little Penini "is taken into
adoration" by his grandfather. Mrs. Browning's sisters show her every affection, and her brothers
come; but her father, in reply to her own and her husband's letter, simply sends back to her,
with their seals unbroken, all the letters she had written to him from Italy. "So there's the
end," she says; "I cannot, of course, write again. God takes it all into His own hands, and
I wait." The warm affection of her sisters cheered her, Mrs. Surtees Cook (Henrietta Barrett)
coming up from Somersetshire for a week's visit, and her sister Arabel being invited with her.
It was during this sojourn in London that Bayard Taylor, poet and critic, and afterward American
Minister Plenipotentiary to Germany, called upon the Brownings, bringing a letter of introduction
from Hillard.

The poet's wife impressed Taylor as almost a spirit figure, with her pallor and slender grace,
and the little Penini, "a blue-eyed, golden-haired boy, babbling his little sentences in Italian,"
strayed in like a sunbeam.

The poets were overwhelmed with London hospitalities, and as Mrs. Browning gave her maid, Wilson,
leave of absence to visit her own family, the care of little Pen fell upon her.

In the late September the Brownings crossed to Paris, Carlyle being their traveling companion,
and after an effort to secure an apartment near the Madeleine, they finally established themselves
in the Avenue des Champs Élysées (No. 128), where they had pretty, sunny rooms, tastefully
furnished, with the usual French lavishness in mirrors and clocks,--all for two hundred francs
a month, which was hardly more than they had paid for the dreary Grosvenor Street lodgings
in London. Mrs. Browning was very responsive to that indefinable exhilaration of atmosphere
that pervades the French capital, and the little Penini was charmed with the gayety and brightness.
They found themselves near neighbors of Béranger, and frequently saw him promenading the avenue
in a white hat, and they learned that he lived very quietly and "kept out of scrapes, poetical
and political." Mrs. Browning notes that they would like to know Béranger, were the stars propitious,
and that no accredited letter of introduction to him would have been refused, but that they
could not make up their minds to go to his door and introduce themselves as vagrant minstrels.
To George Sand they brought a letter from Mazzini, and although they heard she "had taken vows
against seeing strangers," Mrs. Browning declared she would not die, if she could help it,
without meeting the novelist who had so captivated her.

The visit must have been mutually satisfactory, for it was repeated two or three times, and
they found her simple, "without a shade of affectation or consciousness." Another pleasure
they had was in meeting Lamartine, who took the initiative in asking to be allowed to call
on them. After their arrival in Paris Carlyle passed several evenings with them, and Mrs. Browning
felt, with her husband, that he was one of the most interesting of men, "highly picturesque"
in conversation. Her sympathetic insight gave her always the key and the clue to character,
and perhaps no one ever read Carlyle more truly than she, when she interpreted his bitterness
only as melancholy, and his scorn as sensibility.

The Brownings had not been long in Paris before they were invited to a reception at Lady Elgin's,
where they met Madame Mohl, who at once cordially urged their coming to her "evenings," to
meet her French celebrities. Lady Elgin was domiciled in the old Faubourg Saint Germain, and
received every Monday evening from eight to twelve, sans façon, people being in morning dress,
and being served with simple refreshment of tea and cakes. Lady Elgin expressed the hope that
the Brownings would come to her on every one of these evenings, Mrs. Browning said that she
had expected "to see Balzac's duchesses and hommes de lettres on all sides," but she found
it less notable, though very agreeable. The elder Browning and his daughter pay a visit to
them, greatly to Mrs. Browning's enjoyment. At this time they half contemplated living permanently
in Paris, if it seemed that Mrs. Browning could endure the climate, and she records, during
the visit of her husband's father and sister, that if they do remain in Paris they hope to
induce these beloved members of the family to also establish themselves there. As it turned
out, the Brownings passed only this one winter in the French capital, but the next spring Mr.
Browning (père) and his daughter Sarianna took up their residence in Paris, where they remained
during the remainder of his life. Mrs. Browning was always deeply attached to her husband's
sister. "Sarianna is full of accomplishment and admirable sense," she wrote of her, and the
visit of both gave her great pleasure. The coup d'état took place early in December, but they
felt no alarm. Mrs. Browning expressed her great faith in the French people, and declared the
talk about "military despotism" to be all nonsense. The defect she saw in M. Thiers was "a
lack of breadth of view, which helped to bring the situation to a dead lock, on which the French
had no choice than to sweep the board clean and begin again."

It was during this early winter, with French politics and French society and occasional spectacles
and processions extending from the Carrousel to the Arc de l'Étoile, that Browning wrote that
essay on Shelley, which his publisher of that time, Mr. Moxon, had requested to accompany a
series of Shelley letters which had been discovered, but which were afterward found to be fraudulent.
The edition was at once suppressed; but a few copies had already gone out, and, as Professor
Dowden says, "The essay is interesting as Browning's only considerable piece of prose;... for
him the poet of 'Prometheus Unbound' was not that beautiful and ineffectual angel of Matthew
Arnold's fancy, beating in the void his luminous wings. A great moral purpose looked forth
from Shelley's work, as it does from all lofty works of art." It was "the dream of boyhood,"
Browning tells us, to render justice to Shelley; and he availed himself of this opportunity
with alluring eagerness. His interpretation of Shelley is singularly noble and in accord with
all the great spiritual teachings of his own poetic work. Browning's plea that there is no
basis for any adequate estimate of Shelley, who "died before his youth was ended," cannot but
commend its justice; and he urges that in any measurement of Shelley as a man he must be contemplated
"at his ultimate spiritual stature" and not judged by the mistakes of ten years before when
in his entire immaturity of character.

How all that infinite greatness of spirit and almost divine breadth of comprehension that characterize
Robert Browning reveal themselves in this estimate of Shelley. It is seeing human errors and
mistakes as God sees them,--the temporary faults, defects, imperfections of the soul on its
onward way to perfection. This was the attitude of Browning's profoundest convictions regarding
human life.

  "Eternal process moving on;
    From state to state the spirit walks."

This achievement of the divine ideal for man is not within the possibilities of the brief sojourn
on earth, but what does the transition called death do for man but to

  "Interpose at the difficult moment, snatch Saul, the mistake,
  Saul, the failure, the ruin he seems now,--and bid him awake
  From the dream, the probation, the prelude, to find himself set
  Clear and safe in new light and new life,--a new harmony yet
  To be run, and continued, and ended--who knows?--or endure!
  The man taught enough by life's dream, of the rest to make sure."

Browning's message in its completeness was invariably that which is imaged, too, in these lines
from Mrs. Browning's "Aurora Leigh":

  "And take for a worthier stage the soul itself,
  Its shifting fancies and celestial lights."

For it is only in this drama of the infinite life that the spiritual man can be tested. It
was from the standpoint of an actor on this celestial stage that Browning considered Shelley.
In the entire range of Browning's art the spiritual man is imaged as a complex and individualized
spark of the divine force. He is seen for a flitting moment on his way toward a divine destiny.

Professor Hall Griffin states as his belief that Browning's paper was to some degree inspired
by that of Joseph Milsand on himself, which appeared in August, 1851, in the Revue des Deux
Mondes in which Milsand commended Browning's work "as pervaded by an intense belief in the
importance of the individual soul."

To Browning this winter was enchanted by the initiation of his friendship with Milsand, the
distinguished French scholar and critic, who had already made a name as a philosophic thinker
and had published a book on Ruskin (L'Esthétique Anglaise), and who was a discerner of spirits
in poetic art as well. About the time that "Paracelsus" appeared, Milsand had seen an extract
from the poem that captivated him, and he at once sent for the volume. He had also read, with
the deepest interest, Browning's "Christmas Eve and Easter Day." He was contributing to the
Revue des Deux Mondes two papers on La Poésie Anglaise depuis Byron, the first of which, on
Tennyson, had appeared the previous August. Milsand was about completing the second paper of
this series (on Browning), and it happened just at this time that Miss Mitford's "Recollections
of a Literary Life" was published, in which, writing of the Brownings, she had told the story
of that tragic death of Mrs. Browning's brother Edward, who had been drowned at Torquay. In
these days, when, as Emerson rhymes the fact,

  "Every thought is public,
    Every nook is wide,
  The gossips spread each whisper
    And the gods from side to side,"

it is a little difficult to quite comprehend, even in comprehending Mrs. Browning's intense
sensitiveness and the infinite sacredness of this grief, why she should have been so grieved
at Miss Mitford's tender allusion to an accident that was, by its very nature, public, and
which must have been reported in the newspapers of the day.

It is said there are no secrets in heaven, and in that respect, at least, the twentieth century
is not unlike the celestial state; and it is almost as hard a task for the imagination to comprehend
the reserve in all personal matters that characterized the mid-nineteenth century as it would
be to enter into absolute comprehension of the medieval mind; but Mrs. Browning's own pathetic
deprecation of her feelings regarding this is its own passport to the sympathy of the reader.
To Miss Mitford's reply, full of sympathetic comprehension and regret, Mrs. Browning replied
that she understood, "and I thank you," she added, "and love you, which is better. Now, let
us talk of reasonable things." For Mrs. Browning had that rare gift and grace of instantly
closing the chapter, and turning the page, and ceasing from all allusion to any subject of
regret, after the inevitable reference of the moment had been made. She had the mental energy
and the moral buoyancy to drop the matter, and this characteristic reveals how normal she was,
and how far from any morbidness.

Milsand, with a delicacy that Robert Browning never forgot, came to him to ask his counsel
regarding the inclusion of this tragic accident that had left such traces on his wife's genius
and character (traces that are revealed in immortal expression in her poem, "De Profundis,"
written some years later), and Browning was profoundly touched by his consideration. Grasping
both Milsand's hands, he exclaimed, "Only a Frenchman could have done this!" A friendship initiated
under circumstances so unusual, and with such reverent intuition of Mrs. Browning's feelings,
could not but hold its place apart to them both.

The Brownings found Paris almost as ineffable in beauty in the early spring as was their Florence.
"It's rather dangerous to let the charm of Paris work," laughed Mrs. Browning; "the honey will
be clogging our feet soon, and we shall find it difficult to go away."

They had a delightful winter socially, as well; they went to Ary Scheffer's and heard Madame
Viardot, then in the height of her artistic fame; George Sand sent them tickets for the première
of "Les Vacances de Pandolphe"; they went to the Vaudeville to see the "Dame aux Camellias,"
of which Mrs. Browning said that she did not agree with the common cry about its immorality.
To her it was both moral and human, "but I never will go to see it again," she says, "for it
almost broke my heart. The exquisite acting, the too literal truth to nature...." They met
Paul de Musset, but missed his brother Alfred that winter, whose poems they both cared for.

The elder Browning retained through his life that singular talent for caricature drawing that
had amused and fascinated his son in the poet's childhood; and during his visit to the Brownings
in Paris he had produced many of these drawings which became the delight of his grandson as
well. The Paris streets furnished him with some inimitable suggestions, and Robert Barrett
Browning, to this day, preserves many of these keen and humorous and extremely clever drawings
of his grandfather. Thierry, the historian, who was suffering from blindness, sent to the Brownings
a request that they would call on him, with which they immediately complied, and they were
much interested in his views on France. The one disappointment of that season was in not meeting
Victor Hugo, whose fiery hostility to the new régime caused it to be more expedient for him
to reside quite beyond possible sight of the gilded dome of the Invalides.

In June the Brownings returned to London, where they domiciled themselves in Welbeck Street
(No. 58), Mrs. Browning's sisters both being near, Mrs. Surtees Cook having established herself
only twenty doors away, and Miss Arabel Barrett being in close proximity in Wimpole Street.
They were invited to Kenyon's house at Wimbledon, where Landor was a guest, whom Mrs. Browning
found "looking as young as ever, and full of passionate energy," and who talked with characteristic
exaggeration of Louis Napoleon and of the President of the French nation. Landor "detested"
the one and "loathed" the other; and as he did not accept Talleyrand's ideal of the use of
language, he by no means concealed these sentiments. Mazzini immediately sought the Brownings,
his "pale, spiritual face" shining, and his "intense eyes full of melancholy illusions." He
brought Mrs. Carlyle with him, Mrs. Browning finding her "full of thought, and feeling, and
character." Miss Mulock, who had then written "The Ogilvies," and had also read her title clear
to some poetic recognition, was in evidence that season, as were Mr. and Mrs. Monckton Milnes,
and Fanny Kemble was also a brilliant figure in the social life. Nor was the London of that
day apparently without a taste for the sorceress and the soothsayer, for no less a personage
than Lord Stanhope was, it seems, showing to the elect the "spirits of the sun" in a crystal
ball, which Lady Blessington had bought from an Egyptian magician and had sold again. Lady
Blessington declared she had no understanding of the use of it, but it was on record that the
initiated could therein behold Oremus, Spirit of the Sun. Both the crystal ball and the seers
were immensely sought, notwithstanding the indignation expressed by Mr. Chorley, who regarded
the combination of social festivities and crystal gazing as eminently scandalous. Which element
he considered the more dangerous is not on the palimpsest that records the story of these days.
Lord Stanhope invited the Brownings to these occult occasions of intermingled attractions,
and Mrs. Browning writes: "For my part, I endured both luncheon and spiritual phenomena with
great equanimity." An optician of London took advantage of the popular demand and offered a
fine assortment of crystal ball spheres, at prices which quite restricted their sale to the
possessors of comfortable rent-rolls, and Lord Stanhope asserted that a great number of persons
resorted to these balls to divine the future, without the courage to confess it. One wonders
as to whom "the American Corinna, in yellow silk," in London, that season, could have been?

The Brownings were invited to a country house in Farnham, to meet Charles Kingsley, who impressed
them with his genial and tender kindness, and while they thought some of his social views wild
and theoretical, they loved his earnestness and originality, and believed he could not be "otherwise
than good and noble." It was during this summer (according to William Michael Rossetti) that
Browning and Dante Gabriel Rossetti first met, Rossetti coming to call on them in company with
William Allingham. On August 30, from Chapel House, Twickenham, Tennyson wrote to Mrs. Browning
of the birth of his son, Hallam, to which she replied:

    "Thank you and congratulate you from my heart. May God bless you all
    three.... Will you say to dear Mrs. Tennyson how deeply I sympathize
    in her happiness...."

To this letter Browning added a postscript saying:

    "How happy I am in your happiness, and in the assurance that it is
    greater than even you can quite know yet. God bless, dear Tennyson,
    you and all yours."

Tennyson wrote again to Mrs. Browning, saying, "... How very grateful your little note and
Browning's epilogue made me." And he signs himself "Ever yours and your husband's."

To Mrs. Tennyson's note of invitation to the Brownings to attend the christening of their child,
Mrs. Browning replied that they had planned to leave England before that date; "but you offer
us an irresistible motive for staying, in spite of fogs and cold," she continued, "and we would
not miss the christening for the world." At the last, however, Mrs. Browning was unable to
go, so that the poet went alone. After the little ceremony Browning took the boy in his arms
and tossed him, while Tennyson, looking on, exclaimed: "Ah, that is as good as a glass of champagne
for him."

Florence Nightingale was a not infrequent visitor of the Brownings that summer, and she always
followed her calls by a gift of masses of flowers. While "Morte d'Arthur" had been written
more than ten years previously, Tennyson was now evolving the entire plan of the "Idylls of
the King." Coventry Patmore, who brought the manuscript copy of his own poems, published later,
for Mr. Browning to read, mentioned to the poets that Tennyson was writing a collection of
poems on Arthur, which were to be united by their subject, after the manner of "In Memoriam,"
which project interested Mrs. Browning greatly. "The work will be full of beauty, I don't doubt,"
she said.

Ruskin invited the Brownings to Denmark Hill to see his Turners, and they found the pictures
"divine." They liked Ruskin very much, finding him "gentle, yet earnest."

During this London sojourn Mr. Browning's old friend, William Johnson Fox, who had first encouraged
the young poet by praising "not a little, which praise comforted me not a little," the verses
of his "Incondita"; who had written a favorable review of "Pauline"; who had found a publisher
for "Paracelsus," and had introduced the poet to Macready, again appears, and writes to his
daughter that he has had "a charming hour" with the Brownings, and that he is more fascinated
than ever with Mrs. Browning. "She talked lots of George Sand, and so beautifully, and she
silver-electroplated Louis Napoleon!" Mr. Fox adds:[6] "They came in to their lodgings late
at night, and R. B. says that in the morning twilight he saw three pictures on the bedroom
wall, and speculated as to whom they might be. Light gradually showed the first to be Beatrice
Cenci. 'Good,' said he; 'in a poetic region.' More light; the second, Lord Byron! Who can the
third be? And what think you it was? Your (Fox's) sketch (engraved chalk portrait) of me?'
He made quite a poem and picture of the affair. She seems much better; and the young Florentine
was gracious."

In November the Brownings again left London for Florence, pausing a week in Paris on the way,
where they witnessed the picturesque pomp of the reception of Louis Napoleon, the day being
brilliant with sunshine, and the hero of the hour producing an impression by riding entirely
alone, with at least ten paces between himself and the nearest of his escort, till even Charlotte
Cushman, sitting at the side of Mrs. Browning, watching the spectacle, declared this to be
"fine." The "young Florentine" was in a state of ecstasy, which he expressed in mingled French
and Italian.

They journeyed to Florence by the Mont Cenis, stopping a week in Genoa, where Mrs. Browning
lay ill on her sofa; but the warmth of the Italian sunshine soon restored her, and for two
days before they left, she was able to walk all about the beautiful old city. They visited
together the Andrea Doria palace, and enjoyed sauntering in a sunshine that was like that of
June days dropped into the heart of November. They were delighted to hear the sound of their
"dear Italian" again, and proceeded by diligence to Florence, where they took possession of
their Casa Guidi home, which looked, wrote Mrs. Browning to her sister-in-law, as if they had
only left it yesterday. The little Penini was "in a state of complete agitation" on entering
Florence, through having heard so much talk of it, and expressed his emotion by repeated caresses
and embraces. Mrs. Browning shared the same amazement at the contrast of climate between Turin
and Genoa that twentieth-century travelers experience; Turin having been so cold that they
were even obliged to have a fire all night, while at Genoa they were "gasping for breath, with
all the windows and doors open, blue skies burning overhead, and no air stirring." But this
very heat was life-giving to Mrs. Browning as they lingered on the terraces, gazing on the
beautiful bay encircled by its sweep of old marble palaces. She even climbed half-way up the
lighthouse for the view, resting there while Browning climbed to the top, for that incomparable
outlook which every visitor endeavors to enjoy. In Florence there were the "divine sunsets"
over the Arno, and Penini's Italian nurse rushing in to greet the child, exclaiming, "Dio mio,
come e bellino!" They "caught up their ancient traditions" just where they left them, Mrs.
Browning observes, though Mr. Browning, "demoralized by the boulevards," missed the stir and
intensity of Parisian life. They found Powers, the sculptor, changing his location, and Mr.
Lytton (the future Earl), who was an attaché at the English Embassy, became a frequent and
a welcome visitor. In a letter to Mr. Kenyon Mrs. Browning mentions that Mr. Lytton is interested
in manifestations of spiritualism, and had informed her that, to his father's great satisfaction
(his father being Sir E. Bulwer Lytton), these manifestations had occurred at Knebworth, the
Lytton home in England. Tennyson's brother, who had married an Italian lady, was in Florence,
and the American Minister, Mr. Marsh. With young Lytton at this time, Poetry was an article
of faith, and nothing would have seemed to him more improbable, even had any of his clairvoyants
foretold it, than his future splendid career as Viceroy of India.

Mrs. Browning was reading Prudhon that winter, and also Swedenborg, Lamartine, and other of
the French writers. Browning was writing from time to time many of the lyrics that appear in
the Collection entitled "Men and Women," while on Mrs. Browning had already dawned the plan
of "Aurora Leigh." They read the novel of Dumas, Diane de Lys, Browning's verdict on it being
that it was clever, but outrageous as to the morals; and Mrs. Browning rejoiced greatly in
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin," saying of Mrs. Stowe, "No woman ever had
such a success, such a fame." All in all, this winter of 1852-1853 was a very happy one to
the poets, what with their work, their friends, playing with the little Wiedemann (Penini),
the names seeming interchangeably used, and their reading, which included everything from poetry
and romance to German mysticism, social economics, and French criticism. Mrs. Browning found
one of the best apologies for Louis Napoleon in Lamartine's work on the Revolution of '48;
and she read, with equal interest, that of Louis Blanc on the same period. In April "Colombe's
Birthday" was produced at the Haymarket Theater in London, the role of the heroine being taken
by Miss Helen Faucit, afterward Lady Martin. The author had no financial interest in this production,
which ran for two weeks, and was spoken of by London critics as holding the house in fascinated
attention, with other appreciative phrases.

Mrs. Browning watches the drama of Italian politics, and while she regarded Mazzini as noble,
she also felt him to be unwise, a verdict that time has since justified. "We see a great deal
of Frederick Tennyson," she writes; "Robert is very fond of him, and so am I. He too writes
poems, and prints them, though not for the public." Their mutual love of music was a strong
bond between Browning and Mr. Tennyson, who had a villa on the Fiesolean slope, with a large
hall in which he was reported to "sit in the midst of his forty fiddlers."

For the coming summer they had planned a retreat into Giotto's country, the Casentino, but
they finally decided on Bagni di Lucca again, where they remained from July till October, Mr.
Browning writing "In a Balcony" during this villeggiatura. Before leaving Florence they enjoyed
an idyllic day at Pratolina with Mrs. Kinney, the wife of the American Minister to the Court
of Turin, and the mother of Edmund Clarence Stedman. The royal residences of the old Dukes
of Tuscany were numerous, but among them all, that at Pratolina, so associated with Francesco
Primo and Bianca Capella, is perhaps the most interesting, and here Mrs. Kinney drove her guests,
where they picnicked on a hillside which their hostess called the Mount of Vision because Mrs.
Browning stood on it; Mr. Browning spoke of the genius of his wife, "losing himself in her
glory," said Mrs. Kinney afterward, while Mrs. Browning lay on the grass and slept. The American
Minister and Mrs. Kinney were favorite guests in Casa Guidi, where they passed with the Brownings
the last evening before the poets set out for their summer retreat. Mrs. Browning delighted
in Mr. Kinney's views of Italy, and his belief in its progress and its comprehension of liberty.
The youthful Florentine, Penini, was delighted at the thought of the change, and his devotion
to his mother was instanced one night when Browning playfully refused to give his wife a letter,
and Pen, taking the byplay seriously, fairly smothered her in his clinging embrace, exclaiming,
"Never mind, mine darling Ba!" He had caught up his mother's pet name, "Ba," and often used
it. It was this name to which she refers in the poem beginning,

  "I have a name, a little name,
      Uncadenced for the ear."

Beside the Pratolina excursion, Mr. Lytton gave a little reception for them before the Florentine
circle dissolved for the summer, asking a few friends to meet the Brownings at his villa on
Bellosguardo, where they all sat out on the terrace, and Mrs. Browning made the tea, and they
feasted on nectar and ambrosia in the guise of cream and strawberries.

"Such a view!" said Mrs. Browning of that evening. "Florence dissolving in the purple of the
hills, and the stars looking on." Mrs. Browning's love for Florence grew stronger with every
year. That it was her son's native city was to her a deeply significant fact, for playfully
as they called him the "young Florentine," there was behind the light jest a profound recognition
of the child's claim to his native country. Still, with all this response to the enchantment
of Florence, they were planning to live in Paris, after another winter (which they wished to
pass in Rome), as the elder Browning and his daughter Sarianna were now to live in the French
capital, and Robert Browning was enamored of the brilliant, abounding life, and the art, and
splendor of privilege, and opportunity in Paris. This plan, however, was never carried out,
as Italy came to lay over them a still deeper spell, which it was impossible to break. Mr.
Lytton, with whom Mrs. Browning talked of all these plans and dreams that evening on his terrace,
had just privately printed his drama, "Clytemnestra," which Mrs. Browning found "full of promise,"
although "too ambitious" because after Æschylus. But this young poet, afterward to be so widely
known in the realm of poetry as "Owen Meredith," and as Lord Lytton in the realm of diplomacy
and statesmanship, impressed her at the time as possessing an incontestable "faculty" in poetry,
that made her expect a great deal from him in the future. She invited him to visit them in
their sylvan retreat that summer at Bagni di Lucca, an invitation that he joyously accepted.
Some great savant, who was "strong in veritable Chinese," found his way to Casa Guidi, as most
of the wandering minstrels of the time did, and "nearly assassinated" the mistress of the ménage
with an interminable analysis of a Japanese novel. Mr. Lytton, who was present, declared she
grew paler and paler every moment, which she afterward asserted was not because of sympathy
with the heroine of this complex tale! But this formidable scholar had a passport to Mrs. Browning's
consideration by bringing her a little black profile of her beloved Isa, which gave "the air
of her head," and then, said Mrs. Browning, laughingly, "how could I complain of a man who
rather flattered me than otherwise, and compared me to Isaiah?"

But at last, after the middle of July, what with poets, and sunsets from terraces, and savants,
and stars, they really left their Florence "dissolving in her purple hills" behind them, and
bestowed themselves in Casa Tolomei, at the Baths, where a row of plane trees stood before
the door, in which the cicale sang all day, and solemn, mysterious mountains kept watch all
day and night. There was a garden, lighted by the fireflies at night, and Penini mistook the
place for Eden. His happiness overflowed in his prayers, and he thriftily united the petition
that God would "mate him dood" with the supplication that God would also "tate him on a dontey,"
thus uniting all possible spiritual and temporal aspirations. Mr. Browning was still working
on his lyrics, of which his wife had seen very few. "We neither of us show our work to the
other till it is finished," she said. She recognized that an artist must work in solitude until
the actual result is achieved.

It seems that Mr. Chorley in London had fallen into depressed spirits that summer, indulging
in the melancholy meditations that none of his friends loved him, beyond seeing in him a "creature
to be eaten," and that, having furnished them with a banquet, their attentions to him were
over (a most regrettable state of mind, one may observe, en passant, and one of those spiritual
pitfalls which not only Mr. Chorley in particular, but all of us in general would do particularly
well to avoid). The letter that Mrs. Browning wrote to him wonderfully reveals her all-comprehending
sympathy and her spiritual buoyancy and intellectual poise. The lovely spirit goes on to remind
Mr. Chorley that they have a spare bedroom "which opens of itself at the thought of you," and
that if he can trust himself so far from home, she begs him to try it for their sakes. "Come
and look in our faces, and learn us more by heart, and see whether we are not two friends?"

Surely, that life was rich, whatever else it might be denied, that had Elizabeth Browning for
a friend. Her genius for friendship was not less marvelous, nor less to be considered, than
her genius as a poet. Indeed, truly speaking, the one, in its ideal fullness and completeness,
comprehends the other.

The summer days among the beautiful hills, and by the green, rushing river, were made aboundingly
happy to the Brownings by the presence of their friends, the Storys, who shared these vast
solitudes. The Storys had a villa perched on the top of the hill, just above the Brownings',
the terrace shaded with vines, and the great mountains towering all around them, while a swift
mountain brook swept by under an arched bridge, its force turning picturesque mills far down
the valley. Under the shadow of the chestnut trees fringing its banks, Shelley had once pushed
his boat. "Of society," wrote Story to Lowell, "there is none we care to meet but the Brownings,
and with them we have constant and delightful intercourse, interchanging long evenings, two
or three times a week, and driving and walking whenever we meet. They are so simple, unaffected,
and sympathetic. Both are busily engaged in writing, he on a volume of lyrics, and she on a
tale or novel in verse."

This "tale" must have been "Aurora Leigh." The wives of the poet and the sculptor held hilarious
intercourse while going back and forth between each other's houses on donkey-back, with an
enjoyment hardly eclipsed by that of Penini himself, whose prayer that God would let him ride
on "dontey-back" was so aboundingly granted that the child might well believe in the lavishness
of divine mercies. Browning and Story walked beside and obediently held the reins of their
wives' steeds, that no mishap might occur. How the picture of these Arcadian days, in those
vast leafy solitudes, peopled only by gods and muses, the attendant "elementals" of these choice
spirits, flashes out through more than the half century that has passed since those days of
their joyous intercourse. There was a night when Story went alone to take tea with the Brownings,
staying till nearly midnight, and Browning accompanied him home in the mystic moonlight. Mrs.
Browning, who apparently shared her little son's predilections for the donkey as a means of
transportation, would go for a morning ride, Browning walking beside her as slowly as possible,
to keep pace with the donkey's degree of speed.

Into this Arcady came, by some untraced dispensation of the gods, a French master of recitations,
who had taught Rachel, and had otherwise allied himself with the great. M. Alexandre brought
his welcome with him, in his delightful recitations from the poets. Mr. Lytton, having accepted
Mrs. Browning's invitation given to him on his Bellosguardo terrace, now appeared; and the
Storys and the Brownings organized a festa, in true Italian spirit, in an excursion they should
all make to Prato Fiortito.

Prato Fiortito is six miles from Bagni di Lucca, perpendicularly up and down, "but such a vision
of divine scenery," said Mrs. Browning. High among the mountains, Bagni di Lucca is yet surrounded
by higher peaks of the Apennines. The journey to Prato Fiortito is like going up and down a
wall, the only path for the donkeys being in the beds of the torrents that cut their way down
in the spring.

Here, after "glorious climbing," in which Mrs. Browning distinguished herself no less than
the others, they arrived at the little old church, set amid majestic limestone mountains and
embowered in purple shade. Here they feasted, Penini overcome with delight, and on shawls spread
under the great chestnut trees Mrs. Browning and Mrs. Story were made luxuriously comfortable,
while they all talked and read, M. Alexandre reciting from the French dramatists, and Lytton
reading from his "Clytemnestra." The luncheon was adorned by a mass of wild strawberries, picked
on the spot, by Browning, Story, Lytton, and Alexandre, while the ladies co-operated in the
industry at this honestly earned feast by assisting to hull the berries. The bottle of cream
and package of sugar tucked away in the picnic basket added all that heart could desire to
this ambrosial luncheon. Mrs. Story, whom Mrs. Browning described as "a sympathetic, graceful
woman, fresh and innocent in face and thought," was a most agreeable companion; and she and
Mrs. Browning frequently exchanged feminine gossip over basins of strawberries and milk in
each other's houses, for strawberries abounded in these hills. "If a tree is felled in the
forests," said Mrs. Browning, "strawberries spring up just as mushrooms might, and the peasants
sell them for just nothing."

One night when the Brownings were having tea with the Storys, the talk turned on Hawthorne.
Story, of course, knew the great romancer, whom the Brownings had not then met and about whom
they were curious. "Hawthorne is a man who talks with a pen," said Story; "he does not open
socially to his intimate friends any more than he does to strangers. It isn't his way to converse."
Mrs. Browning had then just been reading the "Blithedale Romance," in which she had sought
unavailingly, it seems, for some more personal clue to the inner life of its author.

On a brilliant August day the Brownings and the Storys fared forth on a grand excursion on
donkey-back, to Benabbia, a hilltown, perched on one of the peaks. Above it on the rocks is
a colossal cross, traced by some thunder-bolt of the gods, cut in the solid stone. From this
excursion they all returned after dark, in terror of their lives lest the donkeys slip down
the sheer precipices; but the scenery was "exquisite, past all beauty." Mrs. Browning was spell-bound
with its marvelous sublimity, as they looked around "on the world of innumerable mountains
bound faintly with the gray sea, and not a human habitation."

Mrs. Browning was then reading the poems of Coventry Patmore, just published, of which Browning
had read the manuscript in London in the previous year. The poems of Alexander Smith had also
appeared at this time, and in him Mrs. Browning found "an opulence of imagery," but a defect
as to the intellectual part of poetry. With her characteristic tolerance, she instanced his
youth in plea of this defect, and said that his images were "flowers thrown to him by the gods,
gods beautiful and fragrant, but having no root either in Etna or Olympus." Enamored, as ever,
of novels, she was also reading "Vilette," which she thought a strong story, though lacking
charm, and Mrs. Gaskell's "Ruth," which pleased her greatly.

With no dread of death, Mrs. Browning had a horror of the "rust of age," the touch of age "which
is the thickening of the mortal mask between souls. Why talk of age," she would say, "when
we are all young in soul and heart?... Be sure that it's highly moral to be young as long as
possible. Women who dress 'suitably to their years' (that is, as hideously as possible) are
a disgrace to their sex, aren't they now?" she would laughingly declare.

This summer in the Apennines at Bagni di Lucca had been a fruitful one to Browning in his poetic
work. It became one of constant development, and, as Edmund Gosse points out, "of clarification
and increasing selection." He had already written many of his finest lyrics, "Any Wife to Any
Husband," "The Guardian Angel," and "Saul"; and in these and succeeding months he produced
that miracle of beauty, the poem called "The Flight of the Duchess"; and "A Grammarian's Funeral,"
"The Statue and the Bust," "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came," "Fra Lippo Lippi," and "Andrea
del Sarto." To Milsand, Browning wrote that he was at work on lyrics "with more music and painting
than before."

The idyllic summer among the grand chestnut trees came to an end, as summers always do, and
October found the Brownings again in Casa Guidi, though preparing to pass the winter in Rome.
Verdi had just completed his opera of "Trovatore," which was performed at the Pergola in Florence,
and the poets found it "very passionate and dramatic."

In November they fared forth for Rome, "an exquisite journey of eight days," chronicled Mrs.
Browning, "seeing the great monastery and triple church of Assisi, and that wonderful passion
of waters at Terni."

It was the picturesque Rome of the popes that still remained in that winter, and the Eternal
City was aglow with splendid festivals and processions and with artistic interest. The Brownings
caught something of its spirit, even as they came within view of the colossal dome of St. Peter's,
and they entered the city in the highest spirits, "Robert and Penini singing," related Mrs.
Browning, "actually, for the child was radiant and flushed with the continual change of air
and scene." The Storys had engaged an apartment for them, and they found "lighted fires and
lamps," and all comfort.

That winter of 1853-1854 still stands out in the Roman panorama as one of exceptional brilliancy.
There was a galaxy of artists,--Story, who had already won fame on two continents; William
Page, who believed he had discovered the secret of Titian's coloring; Crawford, and "young
Leighton," as Mrs. Browning called the future president of the Royal Academy; Gibson, and his
brilliant pupil, Harriet Hosmer; Fisher, who painted a portrait of Browning, and also of Penini,
for his own use to exhibit in London. It was during this winter that Miss Hosmer took the cast
of the "Clasped Hands" of the Brownings, which was put into bronze, and which must always remain
a work of the most tender interest. Mrs. Browning was very fond of "Hatty," as she called her,
and in a letter to her Isa she described a pretty scene when Lady Marian Alford, the daughter
of the Duke of Northampton, knelt before the girl sculptor and placed on her finger a ring
of diamonds surrounding a ruby. Browning's early friend, M. de Ripert-Monclar, to whom he had
dedicated his "Paracelsus," and Lockhart, were also in Rome; and Leighton was completing his
great canvas of Cimabue's Madonna carried in procession through the streets of Florence.

The Brownings were domiciled in the Bocca di Leone, while the Storys were in the Piazza di
Spagna; Thackeray and his two daughters were close at hand, in and out at the Brownings', with
his "talk of glittering dust swept out of salons." There were Hans Christian Andersen, and
Fanny Kemble, with her sister, Mrs. Sartoris, and Lady Oswald, a sister of Lord Elgin. Thackeray's
daughter, Miss Anne Thackeray (now Lady Ritchie), still finds vivid her girlish memory of Mrs.
Browning,--"a slight figure in a thin black gown and the unpretentious implements of her magic,"
by her sofa, on a little table. Lady Ritchie turns back to her diary of that winter to find
in it another of her early impressions of Mrs. Browning, "in soft, falling flounces of black
silk, with her heavy curls drooping, and a thin gold chain around her neck." This chain held
a tiny locket of crystal set in coils of gold, which she had worn from childhood, not at all
as an ornament, but as a little souvenir. On her death Mr. Browning put into it some of her
hair, and gave the treasured relic to Kate Field, from whom it came later into the possession
of the writer of this book. Lady Ritchie recalls one memorable evening that season in the salon
of Mrs. Sartoris, when the guests assembled in the lofty Roman drawing-room, full of "flowers
and light, of comfort and color." She recalls how the swinging lamps were lighted, shedding
a soft glow; how the grand piano stood open, and there was music, and "tables piled with books,"
and flowers everywhere. The hostess was in a pearl satin gown with flowing train, and sat by
a round table reading aloud from poems of Mr. Browning, when the poet himself was announced,
"and as she read, in her wonderful muse-like way, he walked in." All the lively company were
half laughing and half protesting, and Mrs. Kemble, with her regal air, called him to her side,
to submit to him some disputed point, which he evaded. Mrs. Sartoris had a story, with which
she amused her guests, of a luncheon with the Brownings, somewhere in Italy, where, when she
rose to go, and remarked how delightful it had been, and the other guests joined in their expressions
of enjoyment, Mr. Browning impulsively exclaimed: "Come back and sup with us, do!" And Mrs.
Browning, with the dismay of the housewife, cried: "Oh, Robert, there is no supper, nothing
but the remains of the pie." To which the poet rejoined: "Then come back and finish the pie."

Mrs. Browning was deeply attached to Fanny Kemble. She describes her, at this time, as "looking
magnificent, with her black hair and radiant smile. A very noble creature, indeed," added Mrs.
Browning; "somewhat unelastic, attached to the old modes of thought and convention, but noble
in qualities and defects.... Mrs. Sartoris is genial and generous ... and her house has the
best society in Rome, and exquisite music, of course."

Mrs. Browning often joined her husband in excursions to galleries, villas, and ruins; and when
in the Sistine Chapel, on a memorable festival, they heard "the wrong Miserere," she yet found
it "very fine, right or wrong, and overcoming in its pathos." M. Goltz, the Austrian Minister,
was an acquaintance whom the Brownings found "witty and agreeable," and Mrs. Browning called
the city "a palimpsest Rome," with its records written all over the antique.

The sorrow of the Storys over the death of a little son shadowed Mrs. Browning, and she feared
for her own Penini, but as the winter went on she joyfully wrote of him that he "had not dropped
a single rose-leaf from his cheeks," and with her sweet tenderness of motherly love she adds
that he is "a poetical child, really, and in the best sense. He is full of sweetness and vivacity
together, of imagination and grace," and she pictures his "blue, far-reaching eyes, and the
innocent face framed in golden ringlets." Mrs. Kemble came to them two or three times a week,
and they had long talks, "we three together," records Mrs. Browning. Mr. Page occupied the
apartment just over that of the Brownings, and they saw much of him. "His portrait of Miss
Cushman is a miracle," exclaimed Mrs. Browning. Page begged to paint a portrait of the poet,
of which Mrs. Browning said that he "painted a picture of Robert like an Italian, and then
presented it to me like a prince." The coloring was Venetian, and the picture was at first
considered remarkable, but its color has entirely vanished now, so that it seems its painter
was not successful in surprising the secret of Titian. In the spring of 1910 Mr. Barrett Browning
showed this picture to some friends in his villa near Florence, and its thick, opaque surface
hardly retained even a suggestion of color.

Not the least of Mrs. Browning's enjoyment of that winter was the pleasure that Rome gave to
her little son. "Penini is overwhelmed with attentions and gifts of all kinds," she wrote,
and she described a children's party given for him by Mrs. Page, who decorated the table with
a huge cake, bearing "Penini" in sugar letters, where he sat at the head and did the honors.
Browning all this time was writing, although the social allurements made sad havoc on his time.
They wandered under the great ilex trees of the Pincio, and gazed at the Monte Mario pine.
Then, as now, every one drove in that circular route on the Pincian hill, where carriages meet
each other in passing every five minutes. With the Storys and other friends they often went
for long drives and frequent picnics on the wonderful Campagna, that vast green sea that surrounds
Rome, the Campagna Mystica. On one day Mr. Browning met "Hatty" Hosmer on the Spanish Steps,
and said to her: "Next Saturday Ba and I are going to Albano on a picnic till Monday, and you
and Leighton are to go with us." "Why this extravagance?" laughingly questioned Miss Hosmer.
"On account of a cheque, a buona grazia, that Ticknor and Fields of Boston have sent--one they
were not in the least obliged to send," replied the poet.

In those days there was no international copyright, but Mr. Browning's Boston publishers needed
no legal constraint to act with ideal honor. So on the appointed morning, a partie carré of
artists--two poets, one sculptor, one painter--drove gayly through the Porta San Giovanni,
on that road to Albano, with its wonderful views of the Claudian aqueducts in the distance,
through whose arches the blue sky is bluer, and beyond which are the violet-hued Alban hills.
Then, as now, the road led by the Casa dei Spirite, with its haunting associations, and its
strange mural decorations of specters and wraiths. Past that overhanging cliff, with its tragic
legend, they drove, encountering the long procession of wine carts, with their tinkling bells,
and the dogs guarding the sleeping padrones. Passing the night in Albano, the next day they
mounted donkeys for their excursion into the Alban hills, past lonely monasteries, up the heights
of Rocca di Papa, where the traveler comes on the ancient camping-ground of Hannibal, and where
they see the padres and acolytes sunning themselves on the slopes of Monte Cavo; on again,
to the rocky terraces from which one looks down on Alba Longa and the depths of Lago di Nemi,
beneath whose waters is still supposed to be the barque of Caligula, and across the expanse
of the green Campagna to where Æneas landed.

Miss Hosmer is the authority on this poetic pilgrimage, and she related that they all talked
of art, of the difficulties of art,--those encountered by the poet, the sculptor, and the painter,--each
regarding his own medium of expression as the most difficult. Mrs. Browning's "Hatty" had bestowed
in her bag a volume of Mr. Browning's, and on the homeward journey from Albano to Rome he read
aloud to them his "Saul." At the half-way house on the Campagna, the Torre di Mezza, they paused,
to gaze at the "weird watcher of the Roman Campagna," the monument to Apuleia, whose ruins
are said to have assumed her features.

Nothing in all the classic atmosphere of Rome, filled with the most impressive associations
of its mighty past, appealed more strongly to the Brownings than the glorious Campagna, with
its apparently infinite open space, brilliant with myriads of flowers, and the vast billowing
slopes that break like green waves against the purple hills, in their changeful panorama of
clouds and mists and snow-crowned heights dazzling under a glowing sun.

Fascinating as this winter in Rome had been to them, rich in friendships and in art, the Brownings
were yet glad to return to their Florence with the May days, to give diligence and devotion
to their poetic work, which nowhere proceeded so felicitously as in Casa Guidi.

Browning was now definitely engaged on the poems that were to make up the "Men and Women."
Mrs. Browning was equally absorbed in "Aurora Leigh." Each morning after their Arcadian repast
of coffee and fruit, he went to his study, and she to the salotto, whose windows opened on
the terrace looking out on old gray San Felice where she always wrote, to devote themselves
to serious work. "Aurora Leigh" proceeded rapidly some mornings, and again its progress would
remind her of the web of Penelope. During this summer Browning completed "In a Balcony," and
wrote the "Holy Cross Day," the "Epistle of Karnish," and "Ben Karshook's Wisdom." Like his
wife, Browning held poetry to be above all other earthly interests; he was a poet by nature
and by grace, and his vast range of scholarship, his "British-Museum-Library memory," and his
artistic feeling and taste, all conserved to this one end. But poetry to him was not outside,
but inclusive of the very fullest human life. Mrs. Browning's lines,

        "... No perfect artist is developed here
  From any imperfect woman,..."

embodied his convictions as well, for man and woman alike. He had that royal gift of life in
its fullness, an almost boundless capacity of enjoyment, and to him life meant the completest
development and exercise of all its powers.

The Brownings found their Florentine circle all in evidence. Mr. Lytton, a favorite and familiar
visitor at Casa Guidi; Frederick Tennyson (and perhaps his "forty fiddlers" as well), and the
Trollopes, Isa Blagden, and various wandering minstrels. They passed evenings with Mr. Lytton
in his villa, and would walk home "to the song of nightingales by starlight and firefly light."
To Mrs. Browning Florence looked more beautiful than ever after Rome. "I love the very stones
of it," she said. Limitations of finance kept them in Florence all that summer. "A ship was
to have brought us in something, and brought us in nothing," she explained to a friend in England,
"and the nothing had a discount, beside." But she took comfort in the fact that Penini was
quite as well and almost as rosy as ever, despite the intense heat; and the starlight and the
song of the nightingales were not without consolation. A letter from Milsand ("one of the noblest
and most intellectual men," says Mrs. Browning of him) came, and they were interested in his
arraignment of the paralysis of imagination in literature. Mrs. Browning's religious feeling
was always of that perfect reliance on the Divine Love that is the practical support of life.
Swedenborg says some people do not immediately realize that they have passed death, which seems
to me highly probable. Mrs. Browning would have found herself in harmony with that spiritual
genius, Dr. William James, who said: "And if our needs outrun the visible universe, why may
not that be a sign that the invisible universe is there? Often our faith in an uncertified
result is the only thing that makes the result come true." Faith is the divine vision, and
no one ever more absolutely realized this truth than Elizabeth Browning.

At another time Mrs. Browning remarked that she should fear for a revealed religion incapable
of expansion, according to the needs of man; while Dr. James has said, "Believe what is in
the line of your needs." Many similarities of expression reveal to how wonderful a degree Mrs.
Browning had intuitively grasped phases of truth that became the recognized philosophy of a
succeeding generation, and which were stamped by the brilliant and profound genius of William
James, the greatest psychologist of the nineteenth century. "What comes from God has life in
it," said Mrs. Browning, "and certainly from the growth of all living things, spiritual growth
cannot be excepted."

The summer passed "among our own nightingales and fireflies," playfully said Mrs. Browning,
and in the autumn Mrs. Sartoris stopped to see them, on her way to Rome, "singing passionately
and talking eloquently."

Notwithstanding some illness, Mrs. Browning completed four thousand lines of "Aurora Leigh"
before the new year of 1855, in which were expressed all her largest philosophic thought, and
her deepest insight into the problems of life. Fogazzaro, whose recent death has deprived Italy
of her greatest literary inspirer since Carducci, said of "Aurora Leigh" that he wished the
youth of Italy might study this great poem,--"those who desire poetic fame that they might
gain a high conception of poetry; the weak, in that they might find stimulus for strength;
the sad and discouraged, in that they might find comfort and encouragement." It was this eminent
Italian novelist and Senator (the King of Italy naming a man as Senator, not in the least because
of any political reasons, but to confer on him the honor of recognition of his genius in Literature,
Science, or Art, and a very inconvenient, however highly prized, honor he often finds it),--Senator
Antonio Fogazzaro, who contributed, to an Italian biography[7] of the Brownings by Fanny Zampini,
Contessa Salazar, an "Introduction" which is a notable piece of critical appreciation of the
wedded poets from the Italian standpoint. The Senator records himself as believing that few
poets can be read "with so much intellectual pleasure and spiritual good; for if the works
of Robert and Elizabeth Browning surprise us by the vigorous originality of their thought,"
he continues, "they also show us a rare and salutary spectacle,--two souls as great in their
moral character as in their poetic imagination. 'Aurora Leigh' I esteem Mrs. Browning's masterpiece....
The ideal poet is a prophet, inspired by God to proclaim eternal truth...."

The student of Italian literature will find a number of critical appreciations of the Brownings,
written within the past forty or fifty years, some of which offer no little interest. "Every
man has two countries, his own and Italy," and the land they had made their own in love and
devotion returned this devotion in measure overflowing.

Robert and Elizabeth Browning would have been great,--even immortally great, as man and woman,
if they had not been great poets. They both lived, in a simple, natural way, the essential
life of the spirit, the life of scholarship and noble culture, of the profound significance
of thought, of creative energy, of wide interest in all the important movements of the day,
and of beautiful and sincere friendships.

  "O life, O poetry,
  Which means life in life,"

wrote Mrs. Browning.

The character of Mrs. Browning has been so often portrayed as that of some abnormal being,
half-nervous invalid, half-angel, as if she were a special creation of nature with no particular
relation to the great active world of men and women, that it is quite time to do away with
the category of nonsense and literary hallucination. One does not become less than woman by
being more. Mrs. Browning fulfilled every sweetest relation in life as daughter, sister, friend,
wife, and mother; and her life was not the less normal in that it was one of exceptional power
and exaltation. She saw in Art the most potent factor for high service, and she held that it
existed for Love's sake, for the sake of human co-operation with the purposes of God.

CHAPTER VIII

1855-1861

                  "Inward evermore
  To outward,--so in life, and so in art
  Which still is life."

The Florentine winter is by no means an uninterrupted dream of sunshine and roses; the tramontana
sweeps down from the encircling Apennines, with its peculiarly piercing cold that penetrates
the entire system with the unerring precision of the Röentgen ray; torrents of icy rains fall;
and the purple hills, on whose crest St. Domenico met St. Benedict, are shrouded in clouds
and mist. All the loveliness of Florence seems to be utterly effaced, till one questions if
it existed except as a mirage; but when the storm ceases, and the sun shines again, there is
an instantaneous transformation. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the spell of enchantment
resumes its sway over the Flower Town, and all is forgiven and forgotten.

The winter of 1855 was bitterly cold, and by January the Brownings fairly barricaded themselves
in two rooms which could best be heated, and in these fires were kept up by day as well as
night. In April, however, the divine days came again, and the green hillslope from the Palazzo
Pitti to the Boboli Gardens was gay with flowers. Mr. Browning gave four hours every day to
dictating his poems to a friend who was transcribing them for him. Mrs. Browning had completed
some seven thousand lines of "Aurora Leigh," but not one of these had yet been copied for publication.
Various hindrances beset them, but finally in June they left for England, their most important
impedimenta being sixteen thousand lines of poetry, almost equally divided between them, comprising
his manuscript for "Men and Women," and hers for "Aurora Leigh," complete, save for the last
three books. The change was by no means unalloyed joy. To give up, even temporarily, their
"dream-life of Florence," leaving the old tapestries and pre-Giotto pictures, for London lodgings,
was not exhilarating; but after a week in Paris they found themselves in an apartment in No.
13 Dorset Street, Manchester Square, where they remained until October, every hour filled with
engagements or work. Proof-sheets were coming in at all hours; likewise friends, with the usual
contingent of the "devastators of a day," and all that fatigue and interruption and turmoil
that lies in wait for the pilgrim returning to his former home, beset and entangled them. Mrs.
Browning's youngest brother, Alfred Barrett, was married that summer to his cousin Lizzie,
the "pretty cousin" to whom allusion has already been made as the original of Mrs. Browning's
poem, "A Portrait." They were married in Paris at the English Embassy, and passed the summer
on the Continent. Mrs. Browning's sister Henrietta (Mrs. Surtees Cook) was unable to come up
to London, so that the hoped-for pleasure of seeing this brother and sister was denied her;
but Miss Arabel Barrett was close at hand in the Wimpole Street home, and the sisters were
much together. Mr. Barrett had never changed his mental attitude regarding the marriage of
his daughter Elizabeth, nor that of any of his children, and while this was a constant and
never-forgotten grief with Mrs. Browning, there seems no necessity for prolonged allusion to
it. The matter can only be relegated to the realms of non-comprehension as the idiosyncrasy
of an otherwise good man, of intelligence and much nobility of nature.

The Brownings were invited to Knebworth, to visit Lord Lytton, but they were unable to avail
themselves of the pleasure because of proof-sheets and contingent demands which only writers
with books in press can understand. Proof-sheets are unquestionably endowed with some super-human
power of volition, and invariably arrive at the psychological moment when, if their author
were being married or buried, the ceremony would have to be postponed until they were corrected.
But the poets were not without pleasant interludes, either; as when Tennyson came from the
Isle of Wight to London for three or four days, two of which he passed with the Brownings.
He "dined, smoked, and opened his heart" to them; and concluded this memorable visit at the
witching hour of half-past two in the morning, after reading "Maud" aloud the evening before
from the proof-sheets. The date of this event is established by an inscription affixed to the
back of a pen-and-ink sketch of Tennyson, made on that night by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and
which is now in the possession of Robert Barrett Browning. This inscription, written by Robert
Browning, reads: "Tennyson read his poem 'Maud' to E. B. B., R. B., Arabel, and Rossetti, on
the evening of Sept. 27th, 1855, at 13, Dorset Street. Rossetti made this sketch of Tennyson,
as he sat, reading, on one end of the sofa, E. B. B. being on the other end." And this is signed,
"R. B. March 6th, 1874 ... 19, Warwick Crescent." As the date is Mrs. Browning's birthday,
it is easy to realize how, in that March of 1874, he was recalling tender and beloved memories.
On the drawing itself Mrs. Browning had, at the time of the reading, copied the first two lines
of "Maud." Tennyson replied to a question from William Sharp, who in 1882 wrote to the Laureate
to ask about this night, that he had "not the slightest recollection" of Rossetti's presence;
but the inscription on the picture establishes the fact. William Michael Rossetti was also
one of the group, and a record that he made quite supports the fact of Tennyson's unconsciousness
of his brother's presence, for he says: "So far as I remember the Poet-Laureate neither saw
what my brother was doing nor knew of it afterward." And as if every one of this gifted group
present that night left on record some impression, Dante Gabriel Rossetti has noted that, after
Tennyson's reading, Browning read his "Fra Lippo Lippi," and "with as much sprightly variation
as there was in Tennyson of sustained continuity." In a letter to Allingham, Rossetti also
alluded to this night, and infused a mild reproach to Mrs. Browning in that her attention was
diverted by "two not very exciting ladies"; and in a letter to Mrs. Tennyson, Mrs. Browning
speaks of being "interrupted by some women friends whom I loved, but yet could not help wishing
a little further just then, that I might sit in the smoke, and listen to the talk," after the
reading. So, from putting together, mosaic fashion, all the allusions made by the cloud of
witnesses, the reader constructs a rather accurate picture of that night of the gods. Mrs.
Browning, who "was born to poet-uses," like the suitor of her own "Lady Geraldine," was in
a rapture of pleasure that evening, and of "Maud" she wrote: "The close is magnificent, full
of power, and there are beautiful, thrilling lines all through. If I had a heart to spare,
the Laureate would have won mine." Tennyson's voice she found "like an organ, music rather
than speech," and she was "captivated" by his naïveté, as he stopped every now and then to
say, "There's a wonderful touch!" Mrs. Browning writes to Mrs. Tennyson of "the deep pleasure
we had in Mr. Tennyson's visit to us." She adds:

    "He didn't come back, as he said he would, to teach me the 'Brook'
    (which I persist, nevertheless, in fancying I understand a little),
    but he did so much and left such a voice (both him 'and a voice!')
    crying out 'Maud' to us, and helping the effect of the poem by the
    personality, that it's an increase of joy and life to us ever."

Deciding to pass the ensuing winter in Paris, the Brownings found themselves anxious to make
the change, that they might feel settled for the time, as she needed entire freedom from demands
that she might proceed with her "Aurora Leigh." He had conceived the idea of revising and recasting
"Sordello." They passed an evening with Ruskin, however, and presented "young Leighton" to
him. They met Carlyle at Forster's, finding him "in great force"--of denunciations. They met
Kinglake, and were at the Proctors, and of the young poet, Anne Adelaide Proctor, Mrs. Browning
says, "How I like Adelaide's face!" Mrs. Sartoris and Mrs. Kemble were briefly in London, and
Kenyon, the beloved friend, vanished to the Isle of Wight. To Penini's great delight, Wilson,
the maid, married a Florentine, one Ferdinando Romagnoli, who captivated the boy by his talk
of Florence, and Penini caught up his pretty Italian enthusiasms, and discoursed of Florentine
skies, and the glories of the Cascine, to any one whom he could waylay.

In Paris they first established themselves in the Rue de Grenelle, in the old Faubourg San
Germain, a location they soon exchanged for a more comfortable apartment in the Rue de Colisée,
just off the Champs Élysées. Here they renewed their intercourse with Lady Elgin (now an invalid)
and with her daughter, Lady Augusta Bruce, Madame Mohl, and with other friends. Mrs. Browning
was absorbed in her great poem, which she was able to complete, however, only after their return
to London the next June, and never did an important literary work proceed with less visible
craft. She lay on her sofa, half supported by cushions, writing with pencil on little scraps
of paper, which she would slip under the pillows if any chance visitor came in. "Elizabeth
is lying on the sofa, writing like a spirit," Browning wrote to Harriet Hosmer. To Mrs. Browning
Ruskin wrote, praising her husband's poems, which gratified her deeply, and she replied, in
part, that when he wrote to praise her poems, of course she had to bear it. Mrs. Browning considered
these poems beyond any of his previous work, save "Paracelsus," but there is no visible record
left of what she must have felt regarding that tender and exquisite dedication to her, that
"One Word More ... To E. B. B.," which must have been to her

  "The heart's sweet Scripture to be read at night."

These lines are, indeed, a fitting companion-piece to her "Sonnets from
the Portuguese." For all these poems, his "fifty men and women," were for
her,--his "moon of poets."
  Other heights in other lives, God willing;
  All the gifts from all the heights, your own, Love!"

So he wrote to his "one angel,--borne, see, on my bosom!" For her alone were the

  "Silent, silver lights and darks undreamed of,"

and while there was one side to face the world with, he thanked God that there was another,--

  "One to show a woman when he loves her!"

It was Rossetti, however, who was the true interpreter of Browning to Ruskin,--for if it requires
a god to recognize a god, so likewise in poetic recognitions. To Rossetti the poems comprised
in "Men and Women" were the "elixir of life." The moving drama of Browning's poetry fascinated
him. Some years before he had chanced upon "Pauline" in the British Museum, and being unable
to procure the book, had copied every line of it. The "high seriousness" which Aristotle claims
to be one of the high virtues of poetry, impressed Rossetti in Browning. What a drama of the
soul universal was revealed in that "fifty men and women"! What art, what music, coming down
the ages, from Italy, from Germany, and what pictures from dim frescoes, and long-forgotten
paintings hid in niche and cloister, were interpreted in these poems!

And in "Andrea del Sarto" what passionate pathos of an ideal missed!

  "But all the play, the insight and the stretch--
  Out of me, out of me! And wherefore out?
  Had you enjoined them on me, given me soul,
  We might have risen to Rafael, I and you!

     *       *       *       *       *

  Had you ... but brought a mind!
  Some women do so. Had the mouth there urged
  'God and the glory! never care for gain.
  The present by the future, what is that?
  Live for fame, side by side with Agnolo!
  Rafael is waiting; up to God, all three!'
  I might have done it for you...."

And that exquisite idyl of "the love of wedded souls" in "By the Fire-side." It requires no
diviner to discover from whose image he drew the line,

  "My perfect wife, my Leonor."

How Browning's art fused poetic truth and poetic beauty in all these poems, vital with keen
and shrewd observation, deep with significance, and pervaded by the perpetual recognition of
a higher range of achievements than are realized on earth.

  "A man's grasp should exceed his reach,
  Or what's a heaven for?"

In all these poems can be traced the magic of Italy and happiness. (Are the two more than half
synonymous?) The perfect sympathy, the delicate divination and intuitive comprehension with
which Browning was surrounded by his wife, were the supreme source of the stimulus and development
of his powers as a poet.

The Parisian winter was full of movement and interest. No twentieth-century prophet had then
arisen to instruct the populace how to live on twenty-four hours a day, but the Brownings captured
what time they could rescue from the devouring elements, rose early, breakfasted at nine, and
gave the next hour and a half to Penini's lessons,--"the darling, idle, distracted child,"
who was "blossoming like a rose" all this time; who "learned everything by magnetism," and,
however "idle," was still able in seven weeks to read French "quite surprisingly." Mrs. Browning
had already finished and transcribed some six thousand lines (making five books) of "Aurora
Leigh "; but she planned at least two more books to complete the poem, which must needs be
ready by June; and when, by the author's calendar, it is February, by some necromancy June
is apt to come in the next morning. The Brownings made it an invariable rule to receive no
visitors till after four, but the days had still a trick of vanishing like the fleet angel
who departs before he leaves his blessing. At all events, the last days of May came before
"Aurora Leigh" was completed, and its author half despairingly realized that two weeks more
were needed for the transcription of her little slips to the pages ready for the press.

Meantime Browning had occupied himself for a time in an attempt to revise "Sordello," an effort
soon abandoned, as he saw that, for good or ill, the work must stand as first written.

Madame Mohl's "evenings" continued to attract Browning, where he met a most congenial and brilliant
circle, and while his wife was unable to accompany him to these mild festivities, she insisted
that he should avail himself of these opportunities for intercourse with French society. With
Lady Monson he went to see Ristori in "Medea," finding her great, but not, in his impression,
surpassing Rachel. Monckton Milnes comes over to Paris, and a Frenchman of letters gives a
dinner for him, at which Browning meets George Sand and Cavour.

The success of "Men and Women" was by this time assured. Browning stood in the full light of
recognition on both sides the ocean. For America--or rather, perhaps, one should say, Boston,
for American recognition focused in Boston (which was then, at all events, incontestably the
center of all "sweetness and light")--discerned the greatness of Robert Browning as swiftly
as any transatlantic dwellers on the watch-tower.

Rossetti, who from the days that he copied "Pauline" in the British Museum Library, not knowing
the author, was an ardent admirer of Browning, found himself in Paris, and he and Browning
passed long mornings in the Louvre. The painter declared that Browning's knowledge of early
Italian art was beyond that of any one whom he had met, Ruskin not excepted.

Ruskin was a standard of artistic measurement in those days to a degree hardly conceivable
now; not that much of his judgment does not stand the test of time, but that authoritative
criticism has so many embodiments. Mrs. Browning, to whom Ruskin was one of the nearest of
her circle, considered him a critic who was half a poet as well, and her clear insight discerned
what is now universally recognized, that he was "encumbered by a burning imagination." This
fairly clairvoyant insight of Mrs. Browning into character, the ability to discern defects
as well as virtues where she loved, and to love where she discerned defects, is still further
illustrated by a letter of hers to Ruskin on the death of Miss Mitford. "But no, her 'judgment'
was not 'unerring,'" wrote Mrs. Browning. "She was too intensely sympathetic not to err often
... if she loved a person it was enough.... And yet ... her judgment could be fine and discriminating,
especially upon subjects connected with life and society and manners."

Again, to a friend who had met a great bereavement she also wrote in these Paris days:

    "We get knowledge in losing what we hoped for, and liberty by losing
    what we love. This world is a fragment, or, rather, a segment, and it
    will be rounded presently. Not to doubt that is the greatest blessing
    it gives now.

In that latest collection of Browning's poems, no one excited more discussion at the time than
"The Statue and the Bust." There being then no Browning Societies to authoritatively decide
the poet's real meaning on any disputed point, the controversy assumed formidable proportions.
Did Browning mean this poem to be an apologia for illegal love? was asked with bated breath.

The statue of Fernandino di Medici, in the Piazza dell' Annunziata, in Florence,--that magnificent
equestrian group by Giovanni da Bologna,--is one of the first monuments that the visitor who
has a fancy for tracing out poetic legends fares forth to see. As an example of plastic art,
alone, it is well worth a pilgrimage; but as touched by the magic of the poet's art, it is
magnetic with life. Dating back to 1608, it was left for Robert Browning to invest it with
immortality.

  "There's a palace in Florence, the world knows well
  And a statue watches it from the square."

In the poem Mr. Browning alludes to the cornice, "where now is the empty shrine"; but his son
believes that there never was any bust in this niche, the bust being simply the poet's creation.
The statue of the Grand Duke is remarkable enough to inspire any story; and the Florentine
noble may well take pride in the manner that "John of Douay" has presented him, if he still
"contrives" to see it, and still "laughs in his tomb" at the perpetual pilgrimage that is made
to the scene of the legend, as well as to the royal Villa Petraja, also immortalized in Browning's
poem.

June came, the closing books of "Aurora Leigh" had been written, and under the roof of her
dear friend and cousin, Kenyon, who had begged the Brownings to accept the loan of his house
in Devonshire Place, the last pages were transcribed, and the dedication made to the generous
friend who was the appointed good angel of their lives. They were saddened by Kenyon's illness,
which imprisoned him for that summer on the Isle of Wight, and after seeing "Aurora Leigh"
through the press, they passed a little time with him at Cowes, and also visited Mrs. Browning's
sister Henrietta (Mrs. Surtees Cook), before setting out for Italy. No one in London missed
them more than Dante Gabriel Rossetti. "With them has gone one of my delights," he said; "an
evening resort where I never felt unhappy."

The success of "Aurora Leigh" was immediate, a second edition being called for within a fortnight,
and edition after edition followed. This work, of which, twelve years before, she had a dim
foreshadowing, as of a novel in verse, has the twofold interest of a great dramatic poem and
of a philosophic commentary on art and life. To estimate it only as a social treatise is to
recognize but one element in its kaleidoscopic interest. Yet the narrative, it must be confessed,
is fantastic and unreal. When the conception of the work first dawned upon her, she said she
preferred making her story to choosing that of any legend, for the theme; but the plot is its
one defect, and is only saved from being a serious defect by the richness and splendor of thought
with which it is invested. The poem is to some degree a spiritual autobiography; its narrative
part having no foundation in reality, but on this foundation she has recorded her highest convictions
on the philosophy of life. Love, Art, Ethics, the Christianity of Christ,--all are here, in
this almost inexhaustible mine of intellectual and spiritual wealth. It is a poem peculiarly
calculated to kindle and inspire. What a passage is this:

                            "... I can live
  At least my soul's life, without alms from men,
  And if it be in heaven instead of earth,
  Let heaven look to it,--I am not afraid."

A profound occult truth is embodied in the following:

  "Whate'er our state we must have made it first;
  And though the thing displease us,--aye, perhaps,
  Displease us warrantably, never doubt
  That other states, though possible once, and then
  Rejected by the instinct of our lives,
  If then adopted had displeased us more.

     *       *       *       *       *

  What we choose may not be good;
  But that we choose it, proves it good for us."

No Oriental savant could more forcibly present his doctrine of karma than has Mrs. Browning
in these lines. Her recognition of the power of poetry is here expressed:

  "And plant a poet's word even deep enough
  In any man's breast, looking presently
  For offshoots, you have done more for the man
  Than if you dressed him in a broadcloth coat,
  And warmed his Sunday pottage at your fire."

Poetry was to her as serious a thing as life itself. "There has been no playing at skittles
for me in either poetry, or life," she said; "I never mistook pleasure for the final cause
of poetry; nor leisure, for the hour of the poet."

In the success of "Aurora Leigh" she was herself surprised. Private letters from strangers
filled with the warmest, even if sometimes indiscriminate, praises, rained down upon her, and
she found the press "astonishing in its good will." That her "golden-hearted Robert" was "in
ecstasies about it, far more than as if it had been a book of his own," was apparently her
most precious reward. Milsand, who she had fancied would hardly like this poem, wrote a critique
of it for the Revue which touched her with its "extraordinary kindness." He asked and obtained
permission to translate it into French, and in a letter to Miss Sarianna Browning she speaks
of her happiness that he should thus distinguish the poem.

Soon after their arrival in Florence came the saddest of news, that of the death of John Kenyon,
their beloved friend, whose last thoughtful kindness was to endow them with a legacy insuring
to them that freedom from material care which is so indispensable to the best achievements
in art. During his life he had given to them one hundred pounds a year, and in his will he
left them ten thousand guineas,--the largest of the many legacies that his generous will contained.

The carnival, always gay in Florence, was exceedingly so that year, and Penini, whose ardor
for a blue domino was gratified, and who thought of nothing else for the time being, seemed
to communicate his raptures, so that Browning proposed taking a box at the opera ball, and
entertaining some invited friends with gallantina and champagne. Suddenly the air grew very
mild, and he decided that his wife might and must go; she sent out hastily to buy a mask and
domino (he had already a beautiful black silk one, which she later transmuted into a black
silk gown for herself), and while her endurance and amusement kept her till two o'clock in
the morning, the poet and his friends remained till after four. The Italian carnival, however
wild and free it may be (and is), yet never degenerates into rudeness. The inborn delicacy
and gentle refinement of the people render this impossible. Yet for the time being there is
perfect social equality, and at this ball the Grand Duke and Wilson's husband, Ferdinando,
were on terms of fellowship.

In the early April of that spring the summer suddenly dawned upon lovely Florence like a transformation
scene on a stage. The trees in the Cascine were all a "green mist." Everywhere was that ethereal
enchantment of the Flower City, with her gleaming towers and domes, her encircling purple hills
and picturesque streets. And how, indeed, could any one who has watched the loveliness of a
Florentine springtime ever escape its haunting spell? The dweller in Italy may see a thousand
things to desire,--better public privileges, more facilities for comfort, but the day comes
when, if he has learned to love the Italian atmosphere so intensely that all the glories of
earth could not begin to compensate for it, he would give every conceivable achievement of
modern art and progress for one hour among those purple hills, for one hour with the sunset
splendors over the towers, and the olive-crowned heights of Fiesole and Bellosguardo; or to
hear again the impassioned strains of street singers ring out in pathetic intensity in the
bewildering moonlight. La Bella Firenze, lying dream-enchanted among her amethyst hills, would
draw her lover from the wilds of Siberia, for even one of those etherial evenings, when the
stars blaze in a splendor over San Miniato, or one rose-crowned morning, when the golden sunshine
gilds the tower of the old cathedral on Fiesole.

In that spring Mrs. Stowe visited Florence, and the Brownings liked her and rejoiced that she
had moved the world for good. To Mrs. Jameson Mrs. Browning wrote that "Uncle Tom's Cabin"
was a "sign of the times." She read Victor Hugo's "Contemplations," finding some of the personal
poems "overcoming in their pathos"; they went to tea on the terrace at Bellosguardo, in April
evenings, gazing over Florence veiled in transparent blue haze in the valley below.

In this April Mrs. Browning's father died; she had never ceased to hope for reconciliation,
and her sorrow was great, but, as usual, she was gently serene, "not despondingly calm," she
said. Mrs. Jameson again came to Florence, and there were more teas on overhanging terraces,
and enjoyments of the divine sunsets.

In August they went with Miss Blagden, Mr. Lytton, and one or two others to again make villeggiatura
at Bagni di Lucca, where Mrs. Browning rose every morning at six to bathe in the rapid little
mountain stream,--finding herself strengthened by this heroic practice,--and Penini flourished
"like a rose possessed by a fairy."

The succeeding winter was passed in Florence, Mrs. Browning instructing her little son in German,
and herself reveled in French and German romances. Her rest was always gained in lying on the
sofa and reading novels; Browning, who cared little for fiction, found his relaxation in drawing.
He taught Penini on the piano, and the boy read French, German, and Italian every day, and
played in the open air under the very shadow of the Palazzo Pitti.

The Hawthornes, who had met the Brownings in London at a breakfast given by Lord Houghton,
came up from Rome, and Mrs. Hawthorne declared that the grasp of Browning's hand "gives a new
value to life." They passed an evening at Casa Guidi, and Mrs. Hawthorne recorded that in the
corridor, as they entered, was a little boy who answered in the affirmative as to whether he
were "Penini," and who "looked like a waif of poetry, lovelier still in the bright light of
the drawing-room." Mr. Browning instantly appeared with his cordial welcome, leading them into
the salon that looked out on the terrace, filled with growing plants. From San Felice there
came the chanting of music, and the flowers, the melody, the stars hanging low in the sky,
all ablaze over San Miniato, with the poet and his child, all conspired to entrance the sensitive
and poetic Mrs. Hawthorne. Then Mrs. Browning came in, "delicate, like a spirit, the ethereal
poet-wife, with a cloud of curls half concealing her face, and with the fairy fingers that
gave a warm, human pressure,--a very embodiment of heart and intellect." Mrs. Hawthorne had
brought her a branch of pink roses, which Mrs. Browning pinned on her black velvet gown.

They were taken into the drawing-room, a lofty, spacious apartment where Gobelin tapestries,
richly carved furniture, pictures, and vertu all enchanted Mrs. Hawthorne, and they talked
"on no very noteworthy topics," Hawthorne afterward recorded, though he added that he wondered
that the conversation of Browning should be so clear and so much to the purpose, considering
that in his poetry one ran "into the high grass of obscure allusion." The poet Bryant and his
daughter were present that evening, a little to the regret of Mrs. Hawthorne, and there were
tea and strawberries, Mrs. Browning presiding at the tray, and Penini, "graceful as Ganymede,"
passing the cake.

