Transcriber's notes:

   Underscores before and after words denote italics.

   Underscore and {} denote subscripts.

   Footnotes moved to end of book.

   The book starts using the word "CHAPTER" only after its chapter
   number XI. I have left it the same in this text.

The Century Books of Useful Science

CREATIVE CHEMISTRY

Descriptive of Recent Achievements in the Chemical Industries

by

EDWIN E. SLOSSON, M.S., PH.D.

Literary Editor of The Independent, Associate in Columbia School of Journalism

Author of "Great American Universities," "Major Prophets of Today," "Six Major Prophets," "On
Acylhalogenamine Derivatives and the Beckmann Rearrangement," "Composition of Wyoming Petroleum,"
etc.

With Many Illustrations

New York The Century Co. Copyright, 1919, by The Century Co. Copyright, 1917, 1918, 1919, by
The Independent Corporation Published, October, 1919

TO MY FIRST TEACHER

PROFESSOR E.H.S. BAILEY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS

AND MY LAST TEACHER

PROFESSOR JULIUS STIEGLITZ OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

THIS VOLUME IS GRATEFULLY DEDICATED

CONTENTS

I THREE PERIODS OF PROGRESS                    3

II NITROGEN                                   14

III FEEDING THE SOIL                          37

IV COAL-TAR COLORS                            60

V SYNTHETIC PERFUMES AND FLAVORS              93

VI CELLULOSE                                 110

VII SYNTHETIC PLASTICS                       128

VIII THE RACE FOR RUBBER                     145

IX THE RIVAL SUGARS                          164

X WHAT COMES FROM CORN                       181

XI SOLIDIFIED SUNSHINE                       196

XII FIGHTING WITH FUMES                      218

XIII PRODUCTS OF THE ELECTRIC FURNACE        236

XIV METALS, OLD AND NEW                      263

READING REFERENCES                           297

INDEX                                        309

A CARD OF THANKS

This book originated in a series of articles prepared for The Independent in 1917-18 for the
purpose of interesting the general reader in the recent achievements of industrial chemistry
and providing supplementary reading for students of chemistry in colleges and high schools.
I am indebted to Hamilton Holt, editor of The Independent, and to Karl V.S. Howland, its publisher,
for stimulus and opportunity to undertake the writing of these pages and for the privilege
of reprinting them in this form.

In gathering the material for this volume I have received the kindly aid of so many companies
and individuals that it is impossible to thank them all but I must at least mention as those
to whom I am especially grateful for information, advice and criticism: Thomas H. Norton of
the Department of Commerce; Dr. Bernhard C. Hesse; H.S. Bailey of the Department of Agriculture;
Professor Julius Stieglitz of the University of Chicago; L.E. Edgar of the Du Pont de Nemours
Company; Milton Whitney of the U.S. Bureau of Soils; Dr. H.N. McCoy; K.F. Kellerman of the
Bureau of Plant Industry.

E.E.S.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

The production of new and stronger forms of steel is one of the greatest triumphs of modern
chemistry      Frontispiece

                                                    FACING PAGE

The hand grenades contain potential chemical energy capable of causing a vast amount of destruction
when released                                             16

Women in a munition plant engaged in the manufacture of tri-nitro-toluol                  
17

A chemical reaction on a large scale                      32

Burning air in a Birkeland-Eyde furnace at the DuPont plant                               
33

A battery of Birkeland-Eyde furnaces for the fixation of nitrogen at the DuPont plant     
33

Fixing nitrogen by calcium carbide                        40

A barrow full of potash salts extracted from six tons of green kelp by the government chemists
41

Nature's silent method of nitrogen fixation               41

In order to secure a new supply of potash salts the United States Government set up an experimental
plant at Sutherland, California, for utilization of kelp           52

Overhead suction at the San Diego wharf pumping kelp from the barge to the digestion tanks
53

The kelp harvester gathering the seaweed from the Pacific Ocean                           
53

A battery of Koppers by-product coke-ovens at the plant of the Bethlehem Steel Company, Sparrows
Point, Maryland                                                  60

In these mixing vats at the Buffalo Works, aniline dyes are prepared                      
61

A paper mill in action                                   120

Cellulose from wood pulp is now made into a large variety of useful articles of which a few
examples are here pictured                                                 121

Plantation rubber                                        160

Forest rubber                                            160

In making garden hose the rubber is formed into a tube by the machine on the right and coiled
on the table to the left                                              161

The rival sugars                                         176

Interior of a sugar mill showing the machinery for crushing cane to extract the juice     
177

Vacuum pans of the American Sugar Refinery Company       177

Cotton seed oil as it is squeezed from the seed by the presses                            
200

Cotton seed oil as it comes from the compressors flowing out of the faucets               
201

Splitting coconuts on the island of Tahiti               216

The electric current passing through salt water in these cells decomposes the salt into caustic
soda and chlorine gas                                             217

Germans starting a gas attack on the Russian lines       224

Filling the cannisters of gas masks with charcoal made from fruit pits--Long Island City  
225

The chlorpicrin plant at the Bdgewood Arsenal            234

Repairing the broken stern post of the U.S.S. Northern Pacific, the biggest marine weld in
the world           235

Making aloxite in the electric furnaces by fusing coke and bauxite                        
240

A block of carborundum crystals                          241

Making carborundum in the electric furnace               241

Types of gas mask used by America, the Allies and Germany during the war                  
256

Pumping melted white phosphorus into hand grenades filled with water--Edgewood Arsenal    
257

Filling shell with "mustard gas"                         257

Photomicrographs showing the structure of steel made by Professor E.G. Mahin of Purdue University
272

The microscopic structure of metals                      273

INTRODUCTION

BY JULIUS STIEGLITZ

Formerly President of the American Chemical Society, Professor of Chemistry in The University
of Chicago

The recent war as never before in the history of the world brought to the nations of the earth
a realization of the vital place which the science of chemistry holds in the development of
the resources of a nation. Some of the most picturesque features of this awakening reached
the great public through the press. Thus, the adventurous trips of the Deutschland with its
cargoes of concentrated aniline dyes, valued at millions of dollars, emphasized as no other
incident our former dependence upon Germany for these products of her chemical industries.

The public read, too, that her chemists saved Germany from an early disastrous defeat, both
in the field of military operations and in the matter of economic supplies: unquestionably,
without the tremendous expansion of her plants for the production of nitrates and ammonia from
the air by the processes of Haber, Ostwald and others of her great chemists, the war would
have ended in 1915, or early in 1916, from exhaustion of Germany's supplies of nitrate explosives,
if not indeed from exhaustion of her food supplies as a consequence of the lack of nitrate
and ammonia fertilizer for her fields. Inventions of substitutes for cotton, copper, rubber,
wool and many other basic needs have been reported.

These feats of chemistry, performed under the stress of dire necessity, have, no doubt, excited
the wonder and interest of our public. It is far more important at this time, however, when
both for war and for peace needs, the resources of our country are strained to the utmost,
that the public should awaken to a clear realization of what this science of chemistry really
means for mankind, to the realization that its wizardry permeates the whole life of the nation
as a vitalizing, protective and constructive agent very much in the same way as our blood,
coursing through our veins and arteries, carries the constructive, defensive and life-bringing
materials to every organ in the body.

If the layman will but understand that chemistry is the fundamental science of the transformation
of matter, he will readily accept the validity of this sweeping assertion: he will realize,
for instance, why exactly the same fundamental laws of the science apply to, and make possible
scientific control of, such widely divergent national industries as agriculture and steel manufacturing.
It governs the transformation of the salts, minerals and humus of our fields and the components
of the air into corn, wheat, cotton and the innumerable other products of the soil; it governs
no less the transformation of crude ores into steel and alloys, which, with the cunning born
of chemical knowledge, may be given practically any conceivable quality of hardness, elasticity,
toughness or strength. And exactly the same thing may be said of the hundreds of national activities
that lie between the two extremes of agriculture and steel manufacture!

Moreover, the domain of the science of the transformation of matter includes even life itself
as its loftiest phase: from our birth to our return to dust the laws of chemistry are the controlling
laws of life, health, disease and death, and the ever clearer recognition of this relation
is the strongest force that is raising medicine from the uncertain realm of an art to the safer
sphere of an exact science. To many scientific minds it has even become evident that those
most wonderful facts of life, heredity and character, must find their final explanation in
the chemical composition of the components of life producing, germinal protoplasm: mere form
and shape are no longer supreme but are relegated to their proper place as the housing only
of the living matter which functions chemically.

It must be quite obvious now why thoughtful men are insisting that the public should be awakened
to a broad realization of the significance of the science of chemistry for its national life.

It is a difficult science in its details, because it has found that it can best interpret the
visible phenomena of the material world on the basis of the conception of invisible minute
material atoms and molecules, each a world in itself, whose properties may be nevertheless
accurately deduced by a rigorous logic controlling the highest type of scientific imagination.
But a layman is interested in the wonders of great bridges and of monumental buildings without
feeling the need of inquiring into the painfully minute and extended calculations of the engineer
and architect of the strains and stresses to which every pin and every bar of the great bridge
and every bit of stone, every foot of arch in a monumental edifice, will be exposed. So the
public may understand and appreciate with the keenest interest the results of chemical effort
without the need of instruction in the intricacies of our logic, of our dealings with our minute,
invisible particles.

The whole nation's welfare demands, indeed, that our public be enlightened in the matter of
the relation of chemistry to our national life. Thus, if our commerce and our industries are
to survive the terrific competition that must follow the reëstablishment of peace, our public
must insist that its representatives in Congress preserve that independence in chemical manufacturing
which the war has forced upon us in the matter of dyes, of numberless invaluable remedies to
cure and relieve suffering; in the matter, too, of hundreds of chemicals, which our industries
need for their successful existence.

Unless we are independent in these fields, how easily might an unscrupulous competing nation
do us untold harm by the mere device, for instance, of delaying supplies, or by sending inferior
materials to this country or by underselling our chemical manufacturers and, after the destruction
of our chemical independence, handicapping our industries as they were in the first year or
two of the great war! This is not a mere possibility created by the imagination, for our economic
history contains instance after instance of the purposeful undermining and destruction of our
industries in finer chemicals, dyes and drugs by foreign interests bent on preserving their
monopoly. If one recalls that through control, for instance, of dyes by a competing nation,
control is in fact also established over products, valued in the hundreds of millions of dollars,
in which dyes enter as an essential factor, one may realize indeed the tremendous industrial
and commercial power which is controlled by the single lever--chemical dyes. Of even more vital
moment is chemistry in the domain of health: the pitiful calls of our hospitals for local anesthetics
to alleviate suffering on the operating table, the frantic appeals for the hypnotic that soothes
the epileptic and staves off his seizure, the almost furious demands for remedy after remedy,
that came in the early years of the war, are still ringing in the hearts of many of us. No
wonder that our small army of chemists is grimly determined not to give up the independence
in chemistry which war has achieved for us! Only a widely enlightened public, however, can
insure the permanence of what farseeing men have started to accomplish in developing the power
of chemistry through research in every domain which chemistry touches.

The general public should realize that in the support of great chemical research laboratories
of universities and technical schools it will be sustaining important centers from which the
science which improves products, abolishes waste, establishes new industries and preserves
life, may reach out helpfully into all the activities of our great nation, that are dependent
on the transformation of matter.

The public is to be congratulated upon the fact that the writer of the present volume is better
qualified than any other man in the country to bring home to his readers some of the great
results of modern chemical activity as well as some of the big problems which must continue
to engage the attention of our chemists. Dr. Slosson has indeed the unique quality of combining
an exact and intimate knowledge of chemistry with the exquisite clarity and pointedness of
expression of a born writer.

We have here an exposition by a master mind, an exposition shorn of the terrifying and obscuring
technicalities of the lecture room, that will be as absorbing reading as any thrilling romance.
For the story of scientific achievement is the greatest epic the world has ever known, and
like the great national epics of bygone ages, should quicken the life of the nation by a realization
of its powers and a picture of its possibilities.

CREATIVE CHEMISTRY

     La Chimie posséde cette faculté créatrice à un degré plus
     éminent que les autres sciences, parce qu'elle pénètre plus
     profondément et atteint jusqu'aux éléments naturels des êtres.

     --Berthelot.

I

THREE PERIODS OF PROGRESS

The story of Robinson Crusoe is an allegory of human history. Man is a castaway upon a desert
planet, isolated from other inhabited worlds--if there be any such--by millions of miles of
untraversable space. He is absolutely dependent upon his own exertions, for this world of his,
as Wells says, has no imports except meteorites and no exports of any kind. Man has no wrecked
ship from a former civilization to draw upon for tools and weapons, but must utilize as best
he may such raw materials as he can find. In this conquest of nature by man there are three
stages distinguishable:

  1. The Appropriative Period
  2. The Adaptive Period
  3. The Creative Period

These eras overlap, and the human race, or rather its vanguard, civilized man, may be passing
into the third stage in one field of human endeavor while still lingering in the second or
first in some other respect. But in any particular line this sequence is followed. The primitive
man picks up whatever he can find available for his use. His successor in the next stage of
culture shapes and develops this crude instrument until it becomes more suitable for his purpose.
But in the course of time man often finds that he can make something new which is better than
anything in nature or naturally produced. The savage discovers. The barbarian improves. The
civilized man invents. The first finds. The second fashions. The third fabricates.

The primitive man was a troglodyte. He sought shelter in any cave or crevice that he could
find. Later he dug it out to make it more roomy and piled up stones at the entrance to keep
out the wild beasts. This artificial barricade, this false façade, was gradually extended and
solidified until finally man could build a cave for himself anywhere in the open field from
stones he quarried out of the hill. But man was not content with such materials and now puts
up a building which may be composed of steel, brick, terra cotta, glass, concrete and plaster,
none of which materials are to be found in nature.

The untutored savage might cross a stream astride a floating tree trunk. By and by it occurred
to him to sit inside the log instead of on it, so he hollowed it out with fire or flint. Later,
much later, he constructed an ocean liner.

Cain, or whoever it was first slew his brother man, made use of a stone or stick. Afterward
it was found a better weapon could be made by tying the stone to the end of the stick, and
as murder developed into a fine art the stick was converted into the bow and this into the
catapult and finally into the cannon, while the stone was developed into the high explosive
projectile. The first music to soothe the savage breast was the soughing of the wind through
the trees. Then strings were stretched across a crevice for the wind to play upon and there
was the Æolian harp. The second stage was entered when Hermes strung the tortoise shell and
plucked it with his fingers and when Athena, raising the wind from her own lungs, forced it
through a hollow reed. From these beginnings we have the organ and the orchestra, producing
such sounds as nothing in nature can equal.

The first idol was doubtless a meteorite fallen from heaven or a fulgurite or concretion picked
up from the sand, bearing some slight resemblance to a human being.

In the textile industry the same development is observable. The primitive man used the skins
of animals he had slain to protect his own skin. In the course of time he--or more probably
his wife, for it is to the women rather than to the men that we owe the early steps in the
arts and sciences--fastened leaves together or pounded out bark to make garments. Later fibers
were plucked from the sheepskin, the cocoon and the cotton-ball, twisted together and woven
into cloth. Nowadays it is possible to make a complete suit of clothes, from hat to shoes,
of any desirable texture, form and color, and not include any substance to be found in nature.
The first metals available were those found free in nature such as gold and copper. In a later
age it was found possible to extract iron from its ores and today we have artificial alloys
made of multifarious combinations of rare metals. The medicine man dosed his patients with
decoctions of such roots and herbs as had a bad taste or queer look. The pharmacist discovered
how to extract from these their medicinal principle such as morphine, quinine and cocaine,
and the creative chemist has discovered how to make innumerable drugs adapted to specific diseases
and individual idiosyncrasies.

In the later or creative stages we enter the domain of chemistry, for it is the chemist alone
who possesses the power of reducing a substance to its constituent atoms and from them producing
substances entirely new. But the chemist has been slow to realize his unique power and the
world has been still slower to utilize his invaluable services. Until recently indeed the leaders
of chemical science expressly disclaimed what should have been their proudest boast. The French
chemist Lavoisier in 1793 defined chemistry as "the science of analysis." The German chemist
Gerhardt in 1844 said: "I have demonstrated that the chemist works in opposition to living
nature, that he burns, destroys, analyzes, that the vital force alone operates by synthesis,
that it reconstructs the edifice torn down by the chemical forces."

It is quite true that chemists up to the middle of the last century were so absorbed in the
destructive side of their science that they were blind to the constructive side of it. In this
respect they were less prescient than their contemned predecessors, the alchemists, who, foolish
and pretentious as they were, aspired at least to the formation of something new.

It was, I think, the French chemist Berthelot who first clearly perceived the double aspect
of chemistry, for he defined it as "the science of analysis and synthesis," of taking apart
and of putting together. The motto of chemistry, as of all the empirical sciences, is savoir
c'est pouvoir, to know in order to do. This is the pragmatic test of all useful knowledge.
Berthelot goes on to say:

     Chemistry creates its object. This creative faculty, comparable
     to that of art itself, distinguishes it essentially from the
     natural and historical sciences.... These sciences do not
     control their object. Thus they are too often condemned to an
     eternal impotence in the search for truth of which they must
     content themselves with possessing some few and often uncertain
     fragments. On the contrary, the experimental sciences have the
     power to realize their conjectures.... What they dream of that
     they can manifest in actuality....

     Chemistry possesses this creative faculty to a more eminent
     degree than the other sciences because it penetrates more
     profoundly and attains even to the natural elements of
     existences.

Since Berthelot's time, that is, within the last fifty years, chemistry has won its chief triumphs
in the field of synthesis. Organic chemistry, that is, the chemistry of the carbon compounds,
so called because it was formerly assumed, as Gerhardt says, that they could only be formed
by "vital force" of organized plants and animals, has taken a development far overshadowing
inorganic chemistry, or the chemistry of mineral substances. Chemists have prepared or know
how to prepare hundreds of thousands of such "organic compounds," few of which occur in the
natural world.

But this conception of chemistry is yet far from having been accepted by the world at large.
This was brought forcibly to my attention during the publication of these chapters in "The
Independent" by various letters, raising such objections as the following:

     When you say in your article on "What Comes from Coal Tar" that
     "Art can go ahead of nature in the dyestuff business" you have
     doubtless for the moment allowed your enthusiasm to sweep you
     away from the moorings of reason.

     It is blasphemous of you to claim that man can improve the
     works of God as they appear in nature. Only the Creator can
     create. Man only imitates, destroys or defiles God's handiwork.

No, it was not in momentary absence of mind that I claimed that man could improve upon nature
in the making of dyes. I not only said it, but I proved it. I not only proved it, but I can
back it up. I will give a million dollars to anybody finding in nature dyestuffs as numerous,
varied, brilliant, pure and cheap as those that are manufactured in the laboratory. I haven't
that amount of money with me at the moment, but the dyers would be glad to put it up for the
discovery of a satisfactory natural source for their tinctorial materials. This is not an opinion
of mine but a matter of fact, not to be decided by Shakespeare, who was not acquainted with
the aniline products.

Shakespeare in the passage quoted is indulging in his favorite amusement of a play upon words.
There is a possible and a proper sense of the word "nature" that makes it include everything
except the supernatural. Therefore man and all his works belong to the realm of nature. A tenement
house in this sense is as "natural" as a bird's nest, a peapod or a crystal.

But such a wide extension of the term destroys its distinctive value. It is more convenient
and quite as correct to use "nature" as I have used it, in contradistinction to "art," meaning
by the former the products of the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms, excluding the designs,
inventions and constructions of man which we call "art."

We cannot, in a general and abstract fashion, say which is superior, art or nature, because
it all depends on the point of view. The worm loves a rotten log into which he can bore. Man
prefers a steel cabinet into which the worm cannot bore. If man cannot improve Upon nature
he has no motive for making anything. Artificial products are therefore superior to natural
products as measured by man's convenience, otherwise they would have no reason for existence.

Science and Christianity are at one in abhorring the natural man and calling upon the civilized
man to fight and subdue him. The conquest of nature, not the imitation of nature, is the whole
duty of man. Metchnikoff and St. Paul unite in criticizing the body we were born with. St.
Augustine and Huxley are in agreement as to the eternal conflict between man and nature. In
his Romanes lecture on "Evolution and Ethics"

There speaks the true evolutionist, whose one desire is to get away from nature as fast and
far as possible. Imitate Nature? Yes, when we cannot improve upon her. Admire Nature? Possibly,
but be not blinded to her defects. Learn from Nature? We should sit humbly at her feet until
we can stand erect and go our own way. Love Nature? Never! She is our treacherous and unsleeping
foe, ever to be feared and watched and circumvented, for at any moment and in spite of all
our vigilance she may wipe out the human race by famine, pestilence or earthquake and within
a few centuries obliterate every trace of its achievement. The wild beasts that man has kept
at bay for a few centuries will in the end invade his palaces: the moss will envelop his walls
and the lichen disrupt them. The clam may survive man by as many millennia as it preceded him.
In the ultimate devolution of the world animal life will disappear before vegetable, the higher
plants will be killed off before the lower, and finally the three kingdoms of nature will be
reduced to one, the mineral. Civilized man, enthroned in his citadel and defended by all the
forces of nature that he has brought under his control, is after all in the same situation
as a savage, shivering in the darkness beside his fire, listening to the pad of predatory feet,
the rustle of serpents and the cry of birds of prey, knowing that only the fire keeps his enemies
off, but knowing too that every stick he lays on the fire lessens his fuel supply and hastens
the inevitable time when the beasts of the jungle will make their fatal rush.

Chaos is the "natural" state of the universe. Cosmos is the rare and temporary exception. Of
all the million spheres this is apparently the only one habitable and of this only a small
part--the reader may draw the boundaries to suit himself--can be called civilized. Anarchy
is the natural state of the human race. It prevailed exclusively all over the world up to some
five thousand years ago, since which a few peoples have for a time succeeded in establishing
a certain degree of peace and order. This, however, can be maintained only by strenuous and
persistent efforts, for society tends naturally to sink into the chaos out of which it has arisen.

It is only by overcoming nature that man can rise. The sole salvation for the human race lies
in the removal of the primal curse, the sentence of hard labor for life that was imposed on
man as he left Paradise. Some folks are trying to elevate the laboring classes; some are trying
to keep them down. The scientist has a more radical remedy; he wants to annihilate the laboring
classes by abolishing labor. There is no longer any need for human labor in the sense of personal
toil, for the physical energy necessary to accomplish all kinds of work may be obtained from
external sources and it can be directed and controlled without extreme exertion. Man's first
effort in this direction was to throw part of his burden upon the horse and ox or upon other
men. But within the last century it has been discovered that neither human nor animal servitude
is necessary to give man leisure for the higher life, for by means of the machine he can do
the work of giants without exhaustion. But the introduction of machines, like every other step
of human progress, met with the most violent opposition from those it was to benefit. "Smash
'em!" cried the workingman. "Smash 'em!" cried the poet. "Smash 'em!" cried the artist. "Smash
'em!" cried the theologian. "Smash 'em!" cried the magistrate. This opposition yet lingers
and every new invention, especially in chemistry, is greeted with general distrust and often
with legislative prohibition.

Man is the tool-using animal, and the machine, that is, the power-driven tool, is his peculiar
achievement. It is purely a creation of the human mind. The wheel, its essential feature, does
not exist in nature. The lever, with its to-and-fro motion, we find in the limbs of all animals,
but the continuous and revolving lever, the wheel, cannot be formed of bone and flesh. Man
as a motive power is a poor thing. He can only convert three or four thousand calories of energy
a day and he does that very inefficiently. But he can make an engine that will handle a hundred
thousand times that, twice as efficiently and three times as long. In this way only can he
get rid of pain and toil and gain the wealth he wants.

Gradually then he will substitute for the natural world an artificial world, molded nearer
to his heart's desire. Man the Artifex will ultimately master Nature and reign supreme over
his own creation until chaos shall come again. In the ancient drama it was deus ex machina
that came in at the end to solve the problems of the play. It is to the same supernatural agency,
the divinity in machinery, that we must look for the salvation of society. It is by means of
applied science that the earth can be made habitable and a decent human life made possible.
Creative evolution is at last becoming conscious.

II

NITROGEN

PRESERVER AND DESTROYER OF LIFE

In the eyes of the chemist the Great War was essentially a series of explosive reactions resulting
in the liberation of nitrogen. Nothing like it has been seen in any previous wars. The first
battles were fought with cellulose, mostly in the form of clubs. The next were fought with
silica, mostly in the form of flint arrowheads and spear-points. Then came the metals, bronze
to begin with and later iron. The nitrogenous era in warfare began when Friar Roger Bacon or
Friar Schwartz--whichever it was--ground together in his mortar saltpeter, charcoal and sulfur.
The Chinese, to be sure, had invented gunpowder long before, but they--poor innocents--did
not know of anything worse to do with it than to make it into fire-crackers. With the introduction
of "villainous saltpeter" war ceased to be the vocation of the nobleman and since the nobleman
had no other vocation he began to become extinct. A bullet fired from a mile away is no respecter
of persons. It is just as likely to kill a knight as a peasant, and a brave man as a coward.
You cannot fence with a cannon ball nor overawe it with a plumed hat. The only thing you can
do is to hide and shoot back. Now you cannot hide if you send up a column of smoke by day and
a pillar of fire by night--the most conspicuous of signals--every time you shoot. So the next
step was the invention of a smokeless powder. In this the oxygen necessary for the combustion
is already in such close combination with its fuel, the carbon and hydrogen, that no black
particles of carbon can get away unburnt. In the old-fashioned gunpowder the oxygen necessary
for the combustion of the carbon and sulfur was in a separate package, in the molecule of potassium
nitrate, and however finely the mixture was ground, some of the atoms, in the excitement of
the explosion, failed to find their proper partners at the moment of dispersal. The new gunpowder
besides being smokeless is ashless. There is no black sticky mass of potassium salts left to
foul the gun barrel.

The gunpowder period of warfare was actively initiated at the battle of Cressy, in which, as
a contemporary historian says, "The English guns made noise like thunder and caused much loss
in men and horses." Smokeless powder as invented by Paul Vieille was adopted by the French
Government in 1887. This, then, might be called the beginning of the guncotton or nitrocellulose
period--or, perhaps in deference to the caveman's club, the second cellulose period of human
warfare. Better, doubtless, to call it the "high explosive period," for various other nitro-compounds
besides guncotton are being used.

The important thing to note is that all the explosives from gunpowder down contain nitrogen
as the essential element. It is customary to call nitrogen "an inert element" because it was
hard to get it into combination with other elements. It might, on the other hand, be looked
upon as an active element because it acts so energetically in getting out of its compounds.
We can dodge the question by saying that nitrogen is a most unreliable and unsociable element.
Like Kipling's cat it walks by its wild lone.

It is not so bad as Argon the Lazy and the other celibate gases of that family, where each
individual atom goes off by itself and absolutely refuses to unite even temporarily with any
other atom. The nitrogen atoms will pair off with each other and stick together, but they are
reluctant to associate with other elements and when they do the combination is likely to break
up any moment. You all know people like that, good enough when by themselves but sure to break
up any club, church or society they get into. Now, the value of nitrogen in warfare is due
to the fact that all the atoms desert in a body on the field of battle. Millions of them may
be lying packed in a gun cartridge, as quiet as you please, but let a little disturbance start
in the neighborhood--say a grain of mercury fulminate flares up--and all the nitrogen atoms
get to trembling so violently that they cannot be restrained. The shock spreads rapidly through
the whole mass. The hydrogen and carbon atoms catch up the oxygen and in an instant they are
off on a stampede, crowding in every direction to find an exit, and getting more heated up
all the time. The only movable side is the cannon ball in front, so they all pound against
that and give it such a shove that it goes ten miles before it stops. The external bombardment
by the cannon ball is, therefore, preceded by an internal bombardment on the cannon ball by
the molecules of the hot gases, whose speed is about as great as the speed of the projectile
that they propel.

The active agent in all these explosives is the nitrogen atom in combination with two oxygen
atoms, which the chemist calls the "nitro group" and which he represents by NO{2}. This group
was, as I have said, originally used in the form of saltpeter or potassium nitrate, but since
the chemist did not want the potassium part of it--for it fouled his guns--he took the nitro
group out of the nitrate by means of sulfuric acid and by the same means hooked it on to some
compound of carbon and hydrogen that would burn without leaving any residue, and give nothing
but gases. One of the simplest of these hydrocarbon derivatives is glycerin, the same as you
use for sunburn. This mixed with nitric and sulfuric acids gives nitroglycerin, an easy thing
to make, though I should not advise anybody to try making it unless he has his life insured.
But nitroglycerin is uncertain stuff to keep and being a liquid is awkward to handle. So it
was mixed with sawdust or porous earth or something else that would soak it up. This molded
into sticks is our ordinary dynamite.

If instead of glycerin we take cellulose in the form of wood pulp or cotton and treat this
with nitric acid in the presence of sulfuric we get nitrocellulose or guncotton, which is the
chief ingredient of smokeless powder.

Now guncotton looks like common cotton. It is too light and loose to pack well into a gun.
So it is dissolved with ether and alcohol or acetone to make a plastic mass that can be molded
into rods and cut into grains of suitable shape and size to burn at the proper speed.

Here, then, we have a liquid explosive, nitroglycerin, that has to be soaked up in some porous
solid, and a porous solid, guncotton, that has to soak up some liquid. Why not solve both difficulties
together by dissolving the guncotton in the nitroglycerin and so get a double explosive? This
is a simple idea. Any of us can see the sense of it--once it is suggested to us. But Alfred
Nobel, the Swedish chemist, who thought it out first in 1878, made millions out of it. Then,
apparently alarmed at the possible consequences of his invention, he bequeathed the fortune
he had made by it to found international prizes for medical, chemical and physical discoveries,
idealistic literature and the promotion of peace. But his posthumous efforts for the advancement
of civilization and the abolition of war did not amount to much and his high explosives were
later employed to blow into pieces the doctors, chemists, authors and pacifists he wished to
reward.

Nobel's invention, "cordite," is composed of nitroglycerin and nitrocellulose with a little
mineral jelly or vaseline. Besides cordite and similar mixtures of nitroglycerin and nitrocellulose
there are two other classes of high explosives in common use.

One is made from carbolic acid, which is familiar to us all by its use as a disinfectant. If
this is treated with nitric and sulfuric acids we get from it picric acid, a yellow crystalline
solid. Every government has its own secret formula for this type of explosive. The British
call theirs "lyddite," the French "melinite" and the Japanese "shimose."

The third kind of high explosives uses as its base toluol. This is not so familiar to us as
glycerin, cotton or carbolic acid. It is one of the coal tar products, an inflammable liquid,
resembling benzene. When treated with nitric acid in the usual way it takes up like the others
three nitro groups and so becomes tri-nitro-toluol. Realizing that people could not be expected
to use such a mouthful of a word, the chemists have suggested various pretty nicknames, trotyl,
tritol, trinol, tolite and trilit, but the public, with the wilfulness it always shows in the
matter of names, persists in calling it TNT, as though it were an author like G.B.S., or G.K.C,
or F.P.A. TNT is the latest of these high explosives and in some ways the best of them. Picric
acid has the bad habit of attacking the metals with which it rests in contact forming sensitive
picrates that are easily set off, but TNT is inert toward metals and keeps well. TNT melts
far below the boiling point of water so can be readily liquefied and poured into shells. It
is insensitive to ordinary shocks. A rifle bullet can be fired through a case of it without
setting it off, and if lighted with a match it burns quietly. The amazing thing about these
modern explosives, the organic nitrates, is the way they will stand banging about and burning,
yet the terrific violence with which they blow up when shaken by an explosive wave of a particular
velocity like that of a fulminating cap. Like picric acid, TNT stains the skin yellow and causes
soreness and sometimes serious cases of poisoning among the employees, mostly girls, in the
munition factories. On the other hand, the girls working with cordite get to using it as chewing
gum; a harmful habit, not because of any danger of being blown up by it, but because nitroglycerin
is a heart stimulant and they do not need that.

TNT is by no means smokeless. The German shells that exploded with a cloud of black smoke and
which British soldiers called "Black Marias," "coal-boxes" or "Jack Johnsons" were loaded with
it. But it is an advantage to have a shell show where it strikes, although a disadvantage to
have it show where it starts.

It is these high explosives that have revolutionized warfare. As soon as the first German shell
packed with these new nitrates burst inside the Gruson cupola at Liège and tore out its steel
and concrete by the roots the world knew that the day of the fixed fortress was gone. The armies
deserted their expensively prepared fortifications and took to the trenches. The British troops
in France found their weapons futile and sent across the Channel the cry of "Send us high explosives
or we perish!" The home Government was slow to heed the appeal, but no progress was made against
the Germans until the Allies had the means to blast them out of their entrenchments by shells
loaded with five hundred pounds of TNT.

All these explosives are made from nitric acid and this used to be made from nitrates such
as potassium nitrate or saltpeter. But nitrates are rarely found in large quantities. Napoleon
and Lee had a hard time to scrape up enough saltpeter from the compost heaps, cellars and caves
for their gunpowder, and they did not use as much nitrogen in a whole campaign as was freed
in a few days' cannonading on the Somme. Now there is one place in the world--and so far as
we know one only--where nitrates are to be found abundantly. This is in a desert on the western
slope of the Andes where ancient guano deposits have decomposed and there was not enough rain
to wash away their salts. Here is a bed two miles wide, two hundred miles long and five feet
deep yielding some twenty to fifty per cent. of sodium nitrate. The deposit originally belonged
to Peru, but Chile fought her for it and got it in 1881. Here all countries came to get their
nitrates for agriculture and powder making. Germany was the largest customer and imported 750,000
tons of Chilean nitrate in 1913, besides using 100,000 tons of other nitrogen salts. By this
means her old, wornout fields were made to yield greater harvests than our fresh land. Germany
and England were like two duelists buying powder at the same shop. The Chilean Government,
pocketing an export duty that aggregated half a billion dollars, permitted the saltpeter to
be shoveled impartially into British and German ships, and so two nitrogen atoms, torn from
their Pacific home and parted, like Evangeline and Gabriel, by transportation oversea, may
have found themselves flung into each other's arms from the mouths of opposing howitzers in
the air of Flanders. Goethe could write a romance on such a theme.

Now the moment war broke out this source of supply was shut off to both parties, for they blockaded
each other. The British fleet closed up the German ports while the German cruisers in the Pacific
took up a position off the coast of Chile in order to intercept the ships carrying nitrates
to England and France. The Panama Canal, designed to afford relief in such an emergency, caved
in most inopportunely. The British sent a fleet to the Pacific to clear the nitrate route,
but it was outranged and defeated on November 1, 1914. Then a stronger British fleet was sent
out and smashed the Germans off the Falkland Islands on December 8. But for seven weeks the
nitrate route had been closed while the chemical reactions on the Marne and Yser were decomposing
nitrogen-compounds at an unheard of rate.

England was now free to get nitrates for her munition factories, but Germany was still bottled
up. She had stored up Chilean nitrates in anticipation of the war and as soon as it was seen
to be coming she bought all she could get in Europe. But this supply was altogether inadequate
and the war would have come to an end in the first winter if German chemists had not provided
for such a contingency in advance by working out methods of getting nitrogen from the air.
Long ago it was said that the British ruled the sea and the French the land so that left nothing
to the German but the air. The Germans seem to have taken this jibe seriously and to have set
themselves to make the most of the aerial realm in order to challenge the British and French
in the fields they had appropriated. They had succeeded so far that the Kaiser when he declared
war might well have considered himself the Prince of the Power of the Air. He had a fleet of
Zeppelins and he had means for the fixation of nitrogen such as no other nation possessed.
The Zeppelins burst like wind bags, but the nitrogen plants worked and made Germany independent
of Chile not only during the war, but in the time of peace.

Germany during the war used 200,000 tons of nitric acid a year in explosives, yet her supply
of nitrogen is exhaustless.

Nitrogen is free as air. That is the trouble; it is too free. It is fixed nitrogen that we
want and that we are willing to pay for; nitrogen in combination with some other elements in
the form of food or fertilizer so we can make use of it as we set it free. Fixed nitrogen in
its cheapest form, Chile saltpeter, rose to $250 during the war. Free nitrogen costs nothing
and is good for nothing. If a land-owner has a right to an expanding pyramid of air above him
to the limits of the atmosphere--as, I believe, the courts have decided in the eaves-dropping
cases--then for every square foot of his ground he owns as much nitrogen as he could buy for
$2500. The air is four-fifths free nitrogen and if we could absorb it in our lungs as we do
the oxygen of the other fifth a few minutes breathing would give us a full meal. But we let
this free nitrogen all out again through our noses and then go and pay 35 cents a pound for
steak or 60 cents a dozen for eggs in order to get enough combined nitrogen to live on. Though
man is immersed in an ocean of nitrogen, yet he cannot make use of it. He is like Coleridge's
"Ancient Mariner" with "water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink."

Nitrogen is, as Hood said not so truly about gold, "hard to get and hard to hold." The bacteria
that form the nodules on the roots of peas and beans have the power that man has not of utilizing
free nitrogen. Instead of this quiet inconspicuous process man has to call upon the lightning
when he wants to fix nitrogen. The air contains the oxygen and nitrogen which it is desired
to combine to form nitrates but the atoms are paired, like to like. Passing an electric spark
through the air breaks up some of these pairs and in the confusion of the shock the lonely
atoms seize on their nearest neighbor and so may get partners of the other sort. I have seen
this same thing happen in a square dance where somebody made a blunder. It is easy to understand
the reaction if we represent the atoms of oxygen and nitrogen by the initials of their names
in this fashion:

      NN  +  OO   -->   NO + NO
  nitrogen  oxygen    nitric oxide

The --> represents Jove's thunderbolt, a stroke of artificial lightning. We see on the left
the molecules of oxygen and nitrogen, before taking the electric treatment, as separate elemental
pairs, and then to the right of the arrow we find them as compound molecules of nitric oxide.
This takes up another atom of oxygen from the air and becomes NOO, or using a subscript figure
to indicate the number of atoms and so avoid repeating the letter, NO{2} which is the familiar
nitro group of nitric acid (HO--NO{2}) and of its salts, the nitrates, and of its organic compounds,
the high explosives. The NO{2} is a brown and evil-smelling gas which when dissolved in water
(HOH) and further oxidized is completely converted into nitric acid.

The apparatus which effects this transformation is essentially a gigantic arc light in a chimney
through which a current of hot air is blown. The more thoroughly the air comes under the action
of the electric arc the more molecules of nitrogen and oxygen will be broken up and rearranged,
but on the other hand if the mixture of gases remains in the path of the discharge the NO molecules
are also broken up and go back into their original form of NN and OO. So the object is to spread
out the electric arc as widely as possible and then run the air through it rapidly. In the
Schönherr process the electric arc is a spiral flame twenty-three feet long through which the
air streams with a vortex motion. In the Birkeland-Eyde furnace there is a series of semi-circular
arcs spread out by the repellent force of a powerful electric magnet in a flaming disc seven
feet in diameter with a temperature of 6300° F. In the Pauling furnace the electrodes between
which the current strikes are two cast iron tubes curving upward and outward like the horns
of a Texas steer and cooled by a stream of water passing through them. These electric furnaces
produce two or three ounces of nitric acid for each kilowatt-hour of current consumed. Whether
they can compete with the natural nitrates and the products of other processes depends upon
how cheaply they can get their electricity. Before the war there were several large installations
in Norway and elsewhere where abundant water power was available and now the Norwegians are
using half a million horse power continuously in the fixation of nitrogen and the rest of the
world as much again. The Germans had invested largely in these foreign oxidation plants, but
shortly before the war they had sold out and turned their attention to other processes not
requiring so much electrical energy, for their country is poorly provided with water power.
The Haber process, that they made most of, is based upon as simple a reaction as that we have
been considering, for it consists in uniting two elemental gases to make a compound, but the
elements in this case are not nitrogen and oxygen, but nitrogen and hydrogen. This gives ammonia
instead of nitric acid, but ammonia is useful for its own purposes and it can be converted
into nitric acid if this is desired. The reaction is:

  NN   +   HH + HH + HH --> NHHH + NHHH
  Nitrogen  hydrogen         ammonia

The animals go in two by two, but they come out four by four. Four molecules of the mixed elements
are turned into two molecules and so the gas shrinks to half its volume. At the same time it
acquires an odor--familiar to us when we are curing a cold--that neither of the original gases
had. The agent that effects the transformation in this case is not the electric spark--for
this would tend to work the reaction backwards--but uranium, a rare metal, which has the peculiar
property of helping along a reaction while seeming to take no part in it. Such a substance
is called a catalyst. The action of a catalyst is rather mysterious and whenever we have a
mystery we need an analogy. We may, then, compare the catalyst to what is known as "a good
mixer" in society. You know the sort of man I mean. He may not be brilliant or especially talkative,
but somehow there is always "something doing" at a picnic or house-party when he is along.
The tactful hostess, the salon leader, is a social catalyst. The trouble with catalysts, either
human or metallic, is that they are rare and that sometimes they get sulky and won't work if
the ingredients they are supposed to mix are unsuitable.

But the uranium, osmium, platinum or whatever metal is used as a catalyzing agent is expensive
and although it is not used up it is easily "poisoned," as the chemists say, by impurities
in the gases. The nitrogen and the hydrogen for the Haber process must then be prepared and
purified before trying to combine them into ammonia. The nitrogen is obtained by liquefying
air by cold and pressure and then boiling off the nitrogen at 194° C. The oxygen left is useful
for other purposes. The hydrogen needed is extracted by a similar process of fractional distillation
from "water-gas," the blue-flame burning gas used for heating. Then the nitrogen and hydrogen,
mixed in the proportion of one to three, as shown in the reaction given above, are compressed
to two hundred atmospheres, heated to 1300° F. and passed over the finely divided uranium.
The stream of gas that comes out contains about four per cent. of ammonia, which is condensed
to a liquid by cooling and the uncombined hydrogen and nitrogen passed again through the apparatus.

The ammonia can be employed in refrigeration and other ways but if it is desired to get the
nitrogen into the form of nitric acid it has to be oxidized by the so-called Ostwald process.
This is the reaction:

  NH{3}  +  4O   -->   HNO{3} + H{2}O
  ammonia  oxygen    nitric acid  water

The catalyst used to effect this combination is the metal platinum in the form of fine wire
gauze, since the action takes place only on the surface. The ammonia gas is mixed with air
which supplies the oxygen and the heated mixture run through the platinum gauze at the rate
of several yards a second. Although the gases come in contact with the platinum only a five-hundredth
part of a second yet eighty-five per cent. is converted into nitric acid.

The Haber process for the making of ammonia by direct synthesis from its constituent elements
and the supplemental Ostwald process for the conversion of the ammonia into nitric acid were
the salvation of Germany. As soon as the Germans saw that their dash toward Paris had been
stopped at the Marne they knew that they were in for a long war and at once made plans for
a supply of fixed nitrogen. The chief German dye factories, the Badische Anilin and Soda-Fabrik,
promptly put $100,000,000 into enlarging its plant and raised its production of ammonium sulfate
from 30,000 to 300,000 tons. One German electrical firm with aid from the city of Berlin contracted
to provide 66,000,000 pounds of fixed nitrogen a year at a cost of three cents a pound for
the next twenty-five years. The 750,000 tons of Chilean nitrate imported annually by Germany
contained about 116,000 tons of the essential element nitrogen. The fourteen large plants erected
during the war can fix in the form of nitrates 500,000 tons of nitrogen a year, which is more
than twice the amount needed for internal consumption. So Germany is now not only independent
of the outside world but will have a surplus of nitrogen products which could be sold even
in America at about half what the farmer has been paying for South American saltpeter.

Besides the Haber or direct process there are other methods of making ammonia which are, at
least outside of Germany, of more importance. Most prominent of these is the cyanamid process.
This requires electrical power since it starts with a product of the electrical furnace, calcium
carbide, familiar to us all as a source of acetylene gas.

If a stream of nitrogen is passed over hot calcium carbide it is taken up by the carbide according
to the following equation:

       CaC{2}  +  N{2}    -->    CaCN{2}  +  C
  calcium carbide nitrogen   calcium cyanamid  carbon

Calcium cyanamid was discovered in 1895 by Caro and Franke when they were trying to work out
a new process for making cyanide to use in extracting gold. It looks like stone and, under
the name of lime-nitrogen, or Kalkstickstoff, or nitrolim, is sold as a fertilizer. If it is
desired to get ammonia, it is treated with superheated steam. The reaction produces heat and
pressure, so it is necessary to carry it on in stout autoclaves or enclosed kettles. The cyanamid
is completely and quickly converted into pure ammonia and calcium carbonate, which is the same
as the limestone from which carbide was made. The reaction is:

      CaCN{2}  +  3H{2}O   -->   CaCO{3}  +  2NH{3}
  calcium cyanamid  water   calcium carbonate  ammonia

Another electrical furnace method, the Serpek process, uses aluminum instead of calcium for
the fixation of nitrogen. Bauxite, or impure aluminum oxide, the ordinary mineral used in the
manufacture of metallic aluminum, is mixed with coal and heated in a revolving electrical furnace
through which nitrogen is passing. The equation is:

  Al{2}O{3} + 3C + N{2}   -->   2AlN  +  3CO
  aluminum   carbon nitrogen    aluminum  carbon
   oxide                         nitride   monoxide

Then the aluminum nitride is treated with steam under pressure, which produces ammonia and
gives back the original aluminum oxide, but in a purer form than the mineral from which was made

  2AlN  +  3H{2}O --> 2NH{3} + Al{2}O{3}
  Aluminum  water     ammonia   aluminum oxide
   nitride

The Serpek process is employed to some extent in France in connection with the aluminum industry.
These are the principal processes for the fixation of nitrogen now in use, but they by no means
exhaust the possibilities. For instance, Professor John C. Bucher, of Brown University, created
a sensation in 1917 by announcing a new process which he had worked out with admirable completeness
and which has some very attractive features. It needs no electric power or high pressure retorts
or liquid air apparatus. He simply fills a twenty-foot tube with briquets made out of soda
ash, iron and coke and passes producer gas through the heated tube. Producer gas contains nitrogen
since it is made by passing air over hot coal. The reaction is:

  2Na{2}CO{3} + 4C + N{2}   =   2NaCN + 3CO
  sodium       carbon  nitrogen    sodium   carbon
   carbonate                        cyanide   monoxide

The iron here acts as the catalyst and converts two harmless substances, sodium carbonate,
which is common washing soda, and carbon, into two of the most deadly compounds known to man,
cyanide and carbon monoxide, which is what kills you when you blow out the gas. Sodium cyanide
is a salt of hydrocyanic acid, which for, some curious reason is called "Prussic acid." It
is so violent a poison that, as the freshman said in a chemistry recitation, "a single drop
of it placed on the tongue of a dog will kill a man."

But sodium cyanide is not only useful in itself, for the extraction of gold and cleaning of
silver, but can be converted into ammonia, and a variety of other compounds such as urea and
oxamid, which are good fertilizers; sodium ferrocyanide, that makes Prussian blue; and oxalic
acid used in dyeing. Professor Bucher claimed that his furnace could be set up in a day at
a cost of less than $100 and could turn out 150 pounds of sodium cyanide in twenty-four hours.
This process was placed freely at the disposal of the United States Government for the war
and a 10-ton plant was built at Saltville, Va., by the Ordnance Department. But the armistice
put a stop to its operations and left the future of the process undetermined.

We might have expected that the fixation of nitrogen by passing an electrical spark through
hot air would have been an American invention, since it was Franklin who snatched the lightning
from the heavens as well as the scepter from the tyrant and since our output of hot air is
unequaled by any other nation. But little attention was paid to the nitrogen problem until
1916 when it became evident that we should soon be drawn into a war "with a first class power."
On June 3, 1916, Congress placed $20,000,000 at the disposal of the president for investigation
of "the best, cheapest and most available means for the production of nitrate and other products
for munitions of war and useful in the manufacture of fertilizers and other useful products
by water power or any other power." But by the time war was declared on April 6, 1917, no definite
program had been approved and by the time the armistice was signed on November 11, 1918, no
plants were in active operation. But five plants had been started and two of them were nearly
ready to begin work when they were closed by the ending of the war. United States Nitrate Plant
No. 1 was located at Sheffield, Alabama, and was designed for the production of ammonia by
"direct action" from nitrogen and hydrogen according to the plans of the American Chemical
Company. Its capacity was calculated at 60,000 pounds of anhydrous ammonia a day, half of which
was to be oxidized to nitric acid. Plant No. 2 was erected at Muscle Shoals, Alabama, to use
the process of the American Cyanamid Company. This was contracted to produce 110,000 tons of
ammonium nitrate a year and later two other cyanamid plants of half that capacity were started
at Toledo and Ancor, Ohio.

At Muscle Shoals a mushroom city of 20,000 sprang up on an Alabama cotton field in six months.
The raw material, air, was as abundant there as anywhere and the power, water, could be obtained
from the Government hydro-electric plant on the Tennessee River, but this was not available
during the war, so steam was employed instead. The heat of the coal was used to cool the air
down to the liquefying point. The principle of this process is simple. Everybody knows that
heat expands and cold contracts, but not everybody has realized the converse of this rule,
that expansion cools and compression heats. If air is forced into smaller space, as in a tire
pump, it heats up and if allowed to expand to ordinary pressure it cools off again. But if
the air while compressed is cooled and then allowed to expand it must get still colder and
the process can go on till it becomes cold enough to congeal. That is, by expanding a great
deal of air, a little of it can be reduced to the liquefying point. At Muscle Shoals the plant
for liquefying air, in order to get the nitrogen out of it, consisted of two dozen towers each
capable of producing 1765 cubic feet of pure nitrogen per hour. The air was drawn in through
two pipes, a yard across, and passed through scrubbing towers to remove impurities. The air
was then compressed to 600 pounds per square inch. Nine tenths of the air was permitted to
expand to 50 pounds and this expansion cooled down the other tenth, still under high pressure,
to the liquefying point. Rectifying towers 24 feet high were stacked with trays of liquid air
from which the nitrogen was continually bubbling off since its boiling point is twelve degrees
centigrade lower than that of oxygen. Pure nitrogen gas collected at the top of the tower and
the residual liquid air, now about half oxygen, was allowed to escape at the bottom.

The nitrogen was then run through pipes into the lime-nitrogen ovens. There were 1536 of these
about four feet square and each holding 1600 pounds of pulverized calcium carbide. This is
at first heated by an electrical current to start the reaction which afterwards produces enough
heat to keep it going. As the stream of nitrogen gas passes over the finely divided carbide
it is absorbed to form calcium cyanamid as described on a previous page. This product is cooled,
powdered and wet to destroy any quicklime or carbide left unchanged. Then it is charged into
autoclaves and steam at high temperature and pressure is admitted. The steam acting on the
cyanamid sets free ammonia gas which is carried to towers down which cold water is sprayed,
giving the ammonia water, familiar to the kitchen and the bathroom.

But since nitric acid rather than ammonia was needed for munitions, the oxygen of the air had
to be called into play. This process, as already explained, is carried on by aid of a catalyzer,
in this case platinum wire. At Muscle Shoals there were 696 of these catalyzer boxes. The ammonia
gas, mixed with air to provide the necessary oxygen, was admitted at the top and passed down
through a sheet of platinum gauze of 80 mesh to the inch, heated to incandescence by electricity.
In contact with this the ammonia is converted into gaseous oxides of nitrogen (the familiar
red fumes of the laboratory) which, carried off in pipes, cooled and dissolved in water, form
nitric acid.

But since none of the national plants could be got into action during the war, the United States
was compelled to draw upon South America for its supply. The imports of Chilean saltpeter rose
from half a million tons in 1914 to a million and a half in 1917. After peace was made the
Department of War turned over to the Department of Agriculture its surplus of saltpeter, 150,000
tons, and it was sold to American farmers at cost, $81 a ton.

For nitrogen plays a double rôle in human economy. It appears like Brahma in two aspects, Vishnu
the Preserver and Siva the Destroyer. Here I have been considering nitrogen in its maleficent
aspect, its use in war. We now turn to its beneficent aspect, its use in peace.

III

FEEDING THE SOIL

The Great War not only starved people: it starved the land. Enough nitrogen was thrown away
in some indecisive battle on the Aisne to save India from a famine. The population of Europe
as a whole has not been lessened by the war, but the soil has been robbed of its power to support
the population. A plant requires certain chemical elements for its growth and all of these
must be within reach of its rootlets, for it will accept no substitutes. A wheat stalk in France
before the war had placed at its feet nitrates from Chile, phosphates from Florida and potash
from Germany. All these were shut off by the firing line and the shortage of shipping.

Out of the eighty elements only thirteen are necessary for crops. Four of these are gases:
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and chlorine. Five are metals: potassium, magnesium, calcium, iron
and sodium. Four are non-metallic solids: carbon, sulfur, phosphorus and silicon. Three of
these, hydrogen, oxygen and carbon, making up the bulk of the plant, are obtainable ad libitum
from the air and water. The other ten in the form of salts are dissolved in the water that
is sucked up from the soil. The quantity needed by the plant is so small and the quantity contained
in the soil is so great that ordinarily we need not bother about the supply except in case
of three of them. They are nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus. These would be useless or fatal
to plant life in the elemental form, but fixed in neutral salt they are essential plant foods.
A ton of wheat takes away from the soil about 47 pounds of nitrogen, 18 pounds of phosphoric
acid and 12 pounds of potash. If then the farmer does not restore this much to his field every
year he is drawing upon his capital and this must lead to bankruptcy in the long run.

So much is easy to see, but actually the question is extremely complicated. When the German
chemist, Justus von Liebig, pointed out in 1840 the possibility of maintaining soil fertility
by the application of chemicals it seemed at first as though the question were practically
solved. Chemists assumed that all they had to do was to analyze the soil and analyze the crop
and from this figure out, as easily as balancing a bank book, just how much of each ingredient
would have to be restored to the soil every year. But somehow it did not work out that way
and the practical agriculturist, finding that the formulas did not fit his farm, sneered at
the professors and whenever they cited Liebig to him he irreverently transposed the syllables
of the name. The chemist when he went deeper into the subject saw that he had to deal with
the colloids, damp, unpleasant, gummy bodies that he had hitherto fought shy of because they
would not crystallize or filter. So the chemist called to his aid the physicist on the one
hand and the biologist on the other and then they both had their hands full. The physicist
found that he had to deal with a polyvariant system of solids, liquids and gases mutually miscible
in phases too numerous to be handled by Gibbs's Rule. The biologist found that he had to deal
with the invisible flora and fauna of a new world.

Plants obey the injunction of Tennyson and rise on the stepping stones of their dead selves
to higher things. Each successive generation lives on what is left of the last in the soil
plus what it adds from the air and sunshine. As soon as a leaf or tree trunk falls to the ground
it is taken in charge by a wrecking crew composed of a myriad of microscopic organisms who
proceed to break it up into its component parts so these can be used for building a new edifice.
The process is called "rotting" and the product, the black, gummy stuff of a fertile soil,
is called "humus." The plants, that is, the higher plants, are not able to live on their own
proteids as the animals are. But there are lower plants, certain kinds of bacteria, that can
break up the big complicated proteid molecules into their component parts and reduce the nitrogen
in them to ammonia or ammonia-like compounds. Having done this they stop and turn over the
job to another set of bacteria to be carried through the next step. For you must know that
soil society is as complex and specialized as that above ground and the tiniest bacterium would
die rather than violate the union rules. The second set of bacteria change the ammonia over
to nitrites and then a third set, the Amalgamated Union of Nitrate Workers, steps in and completes
the process of oxidation with an efficiency that Ostwald might envy, for ninety-six per cent.
of the ammonia of the soil is converted into nitrates. But if the conditions are not just right,
if the food is insufficient or unwholesome or if the air that circulates through the soil is
contaminated with poison gases, the bacteria go on a strike. The farmer, not seeing the thing
from the standpoint of the bacteria, says the soil is "sick" and he proceeds to doctor it according
to his own notion of what ails it. First perhaps he tries running in strike breakers. He goes
to one of the firms that makes a business of supplying nitrogen-fixing bacteria from the scabs
or nodules of the clover roots and scatters these colonies over the field. But if the living
conditions remain bad the newcomers will soon quit work too and the farmer loses his money.
If he is wise, then, he will remedy the conditions, putting a better ventilation system in
his soil perhaps or neutralizing the sourness by means of lime or killing off the ameboid banditti
that prey upon the peaceful bacteria engaged in the nitrogen industry. It is not an easy job
that the farmer has in keeping billions of billions of subterranean servants contented and
working together, but if he does not succeed at this he wastes his seed and labor.

The layman regards the soil as a platform or anchoring place on which to set plants. He measures
its value by its superficial area without considering its contents, which is as absurd as to
estimate a man's wealth by the size of his safe. The difference in point of view is well illustrated
by the old story of the city chap who was showing his farmer uncle the sights of New York.
When he took him to Central Park he tried to astonish him by saying "This land is worth $500,000
an acre." The old farmer dug his toe into the ground, kicked out a clod, broke it open, looked
at it, spit on it and squeezed it in his hand and then said, "Don't you believe it; 'tain't
worth ten dollars an acre. Mighty poor soil I call it." Both were right.

The modern agriculturist realizes that the soil is a laboratory for the production of plant
food and he ordinarily takes more pains to provide a balanced ration for it than he does for
his family. Of course the necessity of feeding the soil has been known ever since man began
to settle down and the ancient methods of maintaining its fertility, though discovered accidentally
and followed blindly, were sound and efficacious. Virgil, who like Liberty Hyde Bailey was
fond of publishing agricultural bulletins in poetry, wrote two thousand years ago:

  But sweet vicissitudes of rest and toil
  Make easy labor and renew the soil
  Yet sprinkle sordid ashes all around
  And load with fatt'ning dung thy fallow soil.

The ashes supplied the potash and the dung the nitrate and phosphate. Long before the discovery
of the nitrogen-fixing bacteria, the custom prevailed of sowing pea-like plants every third
year and then plowing them under to enrich the soil. But such local supplies were always inadequate
and as soon as deposits of fertilizers were discovered anywhere in the world they were drawn
upon. The richest of these was the Chincha Islands off the coast of Peru, where millions of
penguins and pelicans had lived in a most untidy manner for untold centuries. The guano composed
of the excrement of the birds mixed with the remains of dead birds and the fishes they fed
upon was piled up to a depth of 120 feet. From this Isle of Penguins--which is not that described
by Anatole France--a billion dollars' worth of guano was taken and the deposit was soon exhausted.

Then the attention of the world was directed to the mainland of Peru and Chile, where similar
guano deposits had been accumulated and, not being washed away on account of the lack of rain,
had been deposited as sodium nitrate, or "saltpeter." These beds were discovered by a German,
Taddeo Haenke, in 1809, but it was not until the last quarter of the century that the nitrates
came into common use as a fertilizer. Since then more than 53,000,000 tons have been taken
out of these beds and the exportation has risen to a rate of 2,500,000 to 3,000,000 tons a
year. How much longer they will last is a matter of opinion and opinion is largely influenced
by whether you have your money invested in Chilean nitrate stock or in one of the new synthetic
processes for making nitrates. The United States Department of Agriculture says the nitrate
beds will be exhausted in a few years. On the other hand the Chilean Inspector General of Nitrate
Deposits in his latest official report says that they will last for two hundred years at the
present rate and that then there are incalculable areas of low grade deposits, containing less
than eleven per cent., to be drawn upon.

Anyhow, the South American beds cannot long supply the world's need of nitrates and we shall
some time be starving unless creative chemistry comes to the rescue. In 1898 Sir William Crookes--the
discoverer of the "Crookes tubes," the radiometer and radiant matter--startled the British
Association for the Advancement of Science by declaring that the world was nearing the limit
of wheat production and that by 1931 the bread-eaters, the Caucasians, would have to turn to
other grains or restrict their population while the rice and millet eaters of Asia would continue
to increase. Sir William was laughed at then as a sensationalist. He was, but his sensations
were apt to prove true and it is already evident that he was too near right for comfort. Before
we were half way to the date he set we had two wheatless days a week, though that was because
we persisted in shooting nitrates into the air. The area producing wheat was by decades:[1]

THE WHEAT FIELDS OF THE WORLD

                      Acres

1881-90             192,000,000 1890-1900           211,000,000 1900-10             242,000,000
Probable limit      300,000,000

If 300,000,000 acres can be brought under cultivation for wheat and the average yield raised
to twenty bushels to the acre, that will give enough to feed a billion people if they eat six
bushels a year as do the English. Whether this maximum is correct or not there is evidently
some limit to the area which has suitable soil and climate for growing wheat, so we are ultimately
thrown back upon Crookes's solution of the problem; that is, we must increase the yield per
acre and this can only be done by the use of fertilizers and especially by the fixation of
atmospheric nitrogen. Crookes estimated the average yield of wheat at 12.7 bushels to the acre,
which is more than it is in the new lands of the United States, Australia and Russia, but less
than in Europe, where the soil is well fed. What can be done to increase the yield may be seen
from these figures:

  GAIN IN THE YIELD OF WHEAT IN BUSHELS PER ACRE

                     1889-90  1913

  Germany              19      35
  Belgium              30      35
  France               17      20
  United Kingdom       28      32
  United States        12      15

The greatest gain was made in Germany and we see a reason for it in the fact that the German
importation of Chilean saltpeter was 55,000 tons in 1880 and 747,000 tons in 1913. In potatoes,
too, Germany gets twice as big a crop from the same ground as we do, 223 bushels per acre instead
of our 113 bushels. But the United States uses on the average only 28 pounds of fertilizer
per acre, while Europe uses 200.

It is clear that we cannot rely upon Chile, but make nitrates for ourselves as Germany had
to in war time. In the first chapter we considered the new methods of fixing the free nitrogen
from the air. But the fixation of nitrogen is a new business in this country and our chief
reliance so far has been the coke ovens. When coal is heated in retorts or ovens for making
coke or gas a lot of ammonia comes off with the other products of decomposition and is caught
in the sulfuric acid used to wash the gas as ammonium sulfate. Our American coke-makers have
been in the habit of letting this escape into the air and consequently we have been losing
some 700,000 tons of ammonium salts every year, enough to keep our land rich and give us all
the explosives we should need. But now they are reforming and putting in ovens that save the
by-products such as ammonia and coal tar, so in 1916 we got from this source 325,000 tons a year.

Germany had a natural monopoly of potash as Chile had a natural monopoly of nitrates. The agriculture
of Europe and America has been virtually dependent upon these two sources of plant foods. Now
when the world was cleft in twain by the shock of August, 1914, the Allied Powers had the nitrates
and the Central Powers had the potash. If Germany had not had up her sleeve a new process for
making nitrates she could not long have carried on a war and doubtless would not have ventured
upon it. But the outside world had no such substitute for the German potash salts and has not
yet discovered one. Consequently the price of potash in the United States jumped from $40 to
$400 and the cost of food went up with it. Even under the stimulus of prices ten times the
normal and with chemists searching furnace crannies and bad lands the United States was able
to scrape up less than 10,000 tons of potash in 1916, and this was barely enough to satisfy
our needs for two weeks!

Yet potash compounds are as cheap as dirt. Pick up a handful of gravel and you will be able
to find much of it feldspar or other mineral containing some ten per cent. of potash. Unfortunately
it is in combination with silica, which is harder to break up than a trust.

But "constant washing wears away stones" and the potash that the metallurgist finds too hard
to extract in his hottest furnace is washed out in the course of time through the dropping
of the gentle rain from heaven. "All rivers run to the sea" and so the sea gets salt, all sorts
of salts, principally sodium chloride (our table salt) and next magnesium, calcium and potassium
chlorides or sulfates in this order of abundance. But if we evaporate sea-water down to dryness
all these are left in a mix together and it is hard to sort them out. Only patient Nature has
time for it and she only did on a large scale in one place, that is at Stassfurt, Germany.
It seems that in the days when northwestern Prussia was undetermined whether it should be sea
or land it was flooded annually by sea-water. As this slowly evaporated the dissolved salts
crystallized out at the critical points, leaving beds of various combinations. Each year there
would be deposited three to five inches of salts with a thin layer of calcium sulfate or gypsum
on top. Counting these annual layers, like the rings on a stump, we find that the Stassfurt
beds were ten thousand years in the making. They were first worked for their salt, common salt,
alone, but in 1837 the Prussian Government began prospecting for new and deeper deposits and
found, not the clean rock salt that they wanted, but bittern, largely magnesium sulfate or
Epsom salt, which is not at all nice for table use. This stuff was first thrown away until
it was realized that it was much more valuable for the potash it contains than was the rock
salt they were after. Then the Germans began to purify the Stassfurt salts and market them
throughout the world. They contain from fifteen to twenty-five per cent. of magnesium chloride
mixed with magnesium chloride in "carnallite," with magnesium sulfate in "kainite" and sodium
chloride in "sylvinite." More than thirty thousand miners and workmen are employed in the Stassfurt
works. There are some seventy distinct establishments engaged in the business, but they are
in combination. In fact they are compelled to be, for the German Government is as anxious to
promote trusts as the American Government is to prevent them. Once the Stassfurt firms had
a falling out and began a cutthroat competition. But the German Government objects to its people
cutting each other's throats. American dealers were getting unheard of bargains when the German
Government stepped in and compelled the competing corporations to recombine under threat of
putting on an export duty that would eat up their profits.

The advantages of such business coöperation are specially shown in opening up a new market
for an unknown product as in the case of the introduction of the Stassfurt salts into American
agriculture. The farmer in any country is apt to be set in his ways and when it comes to inducing
him to spend his hard-earned money for chemicals that he never heard of and could not pronounce
he--quite rightly--has to be shown. Well, he was shown. It was, if I remember right, early
in the nineties that the German Kali Syndikat began operations in America and the United States
Government became its chief advertising agent. In every state there was an agricultural experiment
station and these were provided liberally with illustrated literature on Stassfurt salts with
colored wall charts and sets of samples and free sacks of salts for field experiments. The
station men, finding that they could rely upon the scientific accuracy of the information supplied
by Kali and that the experiments worked out well, became enthusiastic advocates of potash fertilizers.
The station bulletins--which Uncle Sam was kind enough to carry free to all the farmers of
the state--sometimes were worded so like the Kali Company advertising that the company might
have raised a complaint of plagiarizing, but they never did. The Chilean nitrates, which are
under British control, were later introduced by similar methods through the agency of the state
agricultural experiment stations.

As a result of all this missionary work, which cost the Kali Company $50,000 a year, the attention
of a large proportion of American farmers was turned toward intensive farming and they began
to realize the necessity of feeding the soil that was feeding them. They grew dependent upon
these two foreign and widely separated sources of supply. In the year before the war the United
States imported a million tons of Stassfurt salts, for which the farmers paid more than $20,000,000.
Then a declaration of American independence--the German embargo of 1915--cut us off from Stassfurt
and for five years we had to rely upon our own resources. We have seen how Germany--shut off
from Chile--solved the nitrogen problem for her fields and munition plants. It was not so easy
for us--shut off from Germany--to solve the potash problem.

There is no more lack of potash in the rocks than there is of nitrogen in the air, but the
nitrogen is free and has only to be caught and combined, while the potash is shut up in a granite
prison from which it is hard to get it free. It is not the percentage in the soil but the percentage
in the soil water that counts. A farmer with his potash locked up in silicates is like the
merchant who has left the key of his safe at home in his other trousers. He may be solvent,
but he cannot meet a sight draft. It is only solvent potash that passes current.

In the days of our grandfathers we had not only national independence but household independence.
Every homestead had its own potash plant and soap factory. The frugal housewife dumped the
maple wood ashes of the fireplace into a hollow log set up on end in the backyard. Water poured
over the ashes leached out the lye, which drained into a bucket beneath. This gave her a solution
of pearl ash or potassium carbonate whose concentration she tested with an egg as a hydrometer.
In the meantime she had been saving up all the waste grease from the frying pan and pork rinds
from the plate and by trying out these she got her soap fat. Then on a day set apart for this
disagreeable process in chemical technology she boiled the fat and the lye together and got
"soft soap," or as the chemist would call it, potassium stearate. If she wanted hard soap she
"salted it out" with brine. The sodium stearate being less soluble was precipitated to the
top and cooled into a solid cake that could be cut into bars by pack thread. But the frugal
housewife threw away in the waste water what we now consider the most valuable ingredients,
the potash and the glycerin.

But the old lye-leach is only to be found in ruins on an abandoned farm and we no longer burn
wood at the rate of a log a night. In 1916 even under the stimulus of tenfold prices the amount
of potash produced as pearl ash was only 412 tons--and we need 300,000 tons in some form. It
would, of course, be very desirable as a conservation measure if all the sawdust and waste
wood were utilized by charring it in retorts. The gas makes a handy fuel. The tar washed from
the gas contains a lot of valuable products. And potash can be leached out of the charcoal
or from its ashes whenever it is burned. But this at best would not go far toward solving the
problem of our national supply.

There are other potash-bearing wastes that might be utilized. The cement mills which use feldspar
in combination with limestone give off a potash dust, very much to the annoyance of their neighbors.
This can be collected by running the furnace clouds into large settling chambers or long flues,
where the dust may be caught in bags, or washed out by water sprays or thrown down by electricity.
The blast furnaces for iron also throw off potash-bearing fumes.

Our six-million-ton crop of sugar beets contains some 12,000 tons of nitrogen, 4000 tons of
phosphoric acid and 18,000 tons of potash, all of which is lost except where the waste liquors
from the sugar factory are used in irrigating the beet land. The beet molasses, after extracting
all the sugar possible by means of lime, leaves a waste liquor from which the potash can be
recovered by evaporation and charring and leaching the residue. The Germans get 5000 tons of
potassium cyanide and as much ammonium sulfate annually from the waste liquor of their beet
sugar factories and if it pays them to save this it ought to pay us where potash is dearer.
Various other industries can put in a bit when Uncle Sam passes around the contribution basket
marked "Potash for the Poor." Wool wastes and fish refuse make valuable fertilizers, although
they will not go far toward solving the problem. If we saved all our potash by-products they
would not supply more than fifteen per cent. of our needs.

Though no potash beds comparable to those of Stassfurt have yet been discovered in the United
States, yet in Nebraska, Utah, California and other western states there are a number of alkali
lakes, wet or dry, containing a considerable amount of potash mixed with soda salts. Of these
deposits the largest is Searles Lake, California. Here there are some twelve square miles of
salt crust some seventy feet deep and the brine as pumped out contains about four per cent.
of potassium chloride. The quantity is sufficient to supply the country for over twenty years,
but it is not an easy or cheap job to separate the potassium from the sodium salts which are
five times more abundant. These being less soluble than the potassium salts crystallize out
first when the brine is evaporated. The final crystallization is done in vacuum pans as in
getting sugar from the cane juice. In this way the American Trona Corporation is producing
some 4500 tons of potash salts a month besides a thousand tons of borax. The borax which is
contained in the brine to the extent of 1-1/2 per cent. is removed from the fertilizer for
a double reason. It is salable by itself and it is detrimental to plant life.

Another mineral source of potash is alunite, which is a sort of natural alum, or double sulfate
of potassium and aluminum, with about ten per cent. of potash. It contains a lot of extra alumina,
but after roasting in a kiln the potassium sulfate can be leached out. The alunite beds near
Marysville, Utah, were worked for all they were worth during the war, but the process does
not give potash cheap enough for our needs in ordinary times.

The tourist going through Wyoming on the Union Pacific will have to the north of him what is
marked on the map as the "Leucite Hills." If he looks up the word in the Unabridged that he
carries in his satchel he will find that leucite is a kind of lava and that it contains potash.
But he will also observe that the potash is combined with alumina and silica, which are hard
to get out and useless when you get them out. One of the lavas of the Leucite Hills, that named
from its native state "Wyomingite," gives fifty-seven per cent. of its potash in a soluble
form on roasting with alunite--but this costs too much. The same may be said of all the potash
feldspars and mica. They are abundant enough, but until we find a way of utilizing the by-products,
say the silica in cement and the aluminum as a metal, they cannot solve our problem.

Since it is so hard to get potash from the land it has been suggested that we harvest the sea.
The experts of the United States Department of Agriculture have placed high hopes in the kelp
or giant seaweed which floats in great masses in the Pacific Ocean not far off from the California
coast. This is harvested with ocean reapers run by gasoline engines and brought in barges to
the shore, where it may be dried and used locally as a fertilizer or burned and the potassium
chloride leached out of the charcoal ashes. But it is hard to handle the bulky, slimy seaweed
cheaply enough to get out of it the small amount of potash it contains. So efforts are now
being made to get more out of the kelp than the potash. Instead of burning the seaweed it is
fermented in vats producing acetic acid (vinegar). From the resulting liquid can be obtained
lime acetate, potassium chloride, potassium iodide, acetone, ethyl acetate (used as a solvent
for guncotton) and algin, a gelatin-like gum.

PRODUCTION OF POTASH IN THE UNITED STATES

                    |                          |
                    |           1916           |           1917
       Source       | Tons K{2}O | Per cent.  | Tons K{2}O | Per cent.
                    |             |  of total  |             |  of total
                    |             | production |             | production
||||
                    |             |            |             |
Mineral sources:    |             |            |             |
  Natural brines    |    3,994    |    41.1    |   20,652    |    63.4
  Altmite           |    1,850    |    19.0    |    2,402    |     7.3
  Dust from cement  |             |            |             |
    mills           |             |            |    1,621    |     5.0
  Dust from blast   |             |            |             |
    furnaces        |             |            |      185    |     0.6
Organic Sources:    |             |            |             |
  Kelp              |    1,556    |    16.0    |    3,752    |    10.9
  Molasses residue  |             |            |             |
    from distillers |    1,845    |    19.0    |    2,846    |     8.8
  Wood ashes        |      412    |     4.2    |      621    |     1.9
  Waste liquors     |             |            |             |
    from beet-sugar |             |            |             |
    refineries      |             |            |      369    |     1.1
  Miscellaneous     |             |            |             |
    industrial      |             |            |             |
    wastes          |       63    |       .7   |      305    |     1.0
                    |  |  |  | 
                    |             |            |             |
Total               |    9,720    |    100.0   |   32,573    |   100.0

    --From U S. Bureau of Mines Report, 1918.

This table shows how inadequate was the reaction of the United States to the war demand for
potassium salts. The minimum yearly requirements of the United States are estimated to be 250,000
tons of potash.

This completes our survey of the visible sources of potash in America. In 1917 under the pressure
of the embargo and unprecedented prices the output of potash (K{2}O) in various forms was raised
to 32,573 tons, but this is only about a tenth as much as we needed. In 1918 potash production
was further raised to 52,135 tons, chiefly through the increase of the output from natural
brines to 39,255 tons, nearly twice what it was the year before. The rust in cotton and the
resulting decrease in yield during the war are laid to lack of potash. Truck crops grown in
soils deficient in potash do not stand transportation well. The Bureau of Animal Industry has
shown in experiments in Aroostook County, Maine, that the addition of moderate amounts of potash
doubled the yield of potatoes.

Professor Ostwald, the great Leipzig chemist, boasted in the war:

     America went into the war like a man with a rope round his neck
     which is in his enemy's hands and is pretty tightly drawn. With
     its tremendous deposits Germany has a world monopoly in potash,
     a point of immense value which cannot be reckoned too highly
     when once this war is going to be settled. It is in Germany's
     power to dictate which of the nations shall have plenty of food
     and which shall starve.

If, indeed, some mineralogist or metallurgist will cut that rope by showing us a supply of
cheap potash we will erect him a monument as big as Washington's. But Ostwald is wrong in supposing
that America is as dependent as Germany upon potash. The bulk of our food crops are at present
raised without the use of any fertilizers whatever.

As the cession of Lorraine in 1871 gave Germany the phosphates she needed for fertilizers so
the retrocession of Alsace in 1919 gives France the potash she needed for fertilizers. Ten
years before the war a bed of potash was discovered in the Forest of Monnebruck, near Hartmannsweilerkopf,
the peak for which French and Germans contested so fiercely and so long. The layer of potassium
salts is 16-1/2 feet thick and the total deposit is estimated to be 275,000,000 tons of potash.
At any rate it is a formidable rival of Stassfurt and its acquisition by France breaks the
German monopoly.

When we turn to the consideration of the third plant food we feel better. While the United
States has no such monopoly of phosphates as Germany had of potash and Chile had of nitrates
we have an abundance and to spare. Whereas we formerly imported about $17,000,000 worth of
potash from Germany and $20,000,000 worth of nitrates from Chile a year we exported $7,000,000
worth of phosphates.

Whoever it was who first noticed that the grass grew thicker around a buried bone he lived
so long ago that we cannot do honor to his powers of observation, but ever since then--whenever
it was--old bones have been used as a fertilizer. But we long ago used up all the buffalo bones
we could find on the prairies and our packing houses could not give us enough bone-meal to
go around, so we have had to draw upon the old bone-yards of prehistoric animals. Deposits
of lime phosphate of such origin were found in South Carolina in 1870 and in Florida in 1888.
Since then the industry has developed with amazing rapidity until in 1913 the United States
produced over three million tons of phosphates, nearly half of which was sent abroad. The chief
source at present is the Florida pebbles, which are dredged up from the bottoms of lakes and
rivers or washed out from the banks of streams by a hydraulic jet. The gravel is washed free
from the sand and clay, screened and dried, and then is ready for shipment. The rock deposits
of Florida and South Carolina are more limited than the pebble beds and may be exhausted in
twenty-five or thirty years, but Tennessee and Kentucky have a lot in reserve and behind them
are Idaho, Wyoming and other western states with millions of acres of phosphate land, so in
this respect we are independent.

But even here the war hit us hard. For the calcium phosphate as it comes from the ground is
not altogether available because it is not very soluble and the plants can only use what they
can get in the water that they suck up from the soil. But if the phosphate is treated with
sulfuric acid it becomes more soluble and this product is sold as "superphosphate." The sulfuric
acid is made mostly from iron pyrite and this we have been content to import, over 800,000
tons of it a year, largely from Spain, although we have an abundance at home. Since the shortage
of shipping shut off the foreign supply we are using more of our own pyrite and also our deposits
of native sulfur along the Gulf coast. But as a consequence of this sulfuric acid during the
war went up from $5 to $25 a ton and acidulated phosphates rose correspondingly.

Germany is short on natural phosphates as she is long on natural potash. But she has made up
for it by utilizing a by-product of her steelworks. When phosphorus occurs in iron ore, even
in minute amounts, it makes the steel brittle. Much of the iron ores of Alsace-Lorraine were
formerly considered unworkable because of this impurity, but shortly after Germany took these
provinces from France in 1871 a method was discovered by two British metallurgists, Thomas
and Gilchrist, by which the phosphorus is removed from the iron in the process of converting
it into steel. This consists in lining the crucible or converter with lime and magnesia, which
takes up the phosphorus from the melted iron. This slag lining, now rich in phosphates, can
be taken out and ground up for fertilizer. So the phosphorus which used to be a detriment is
now an additional source of profit and this British invention has enabled Germany to make use
of the territory she stole from France to outstrip England in the steel business. In 1910 Germany
produced 2,000,000 tons of Thomas slag while only 160,000 tons were produced in the United
Kingdom. The open hearth process now chiefly used in the United States gives an acid instead
of a basic phosphate slag, not suitable as a fertilizer. The iron ore of America, with the
exception of some of the southern ores, carries so small a percentage of phosphorus as to make
a basic process inadvisable.

Recently the Germans have been experimenting with a combined fertilizer, Schröder's potassium
phosphate, which is said to be as good as Thomas slag for phosphates and as good as Stassfurt
salts for potash. The American Cyanamid Company is just putting out a similar product, "Ammo-Phos,"
in which the ammonia can be varied from thirteen to twenty per cent. and the phosphoric acid
from twenty to forty-seven per cent. so as to give the proportions desired for any crop. We
have then the possibility of getting the three essential plant foods altogether in one compound
with the elimination of most of the extraneous elements such as lime and magnesia, chlorids
and sulfates.

For the last three hundred years the American people have been living on the unearned increment
of the unoccupied land. But now that all our land has been staked out in homesteads and we
cannot turn to new soil when we have used up the old, we must learn, as the older races have
learned, how to keep up the supply of plant food. Only in this way can our population increase
and prosper. As we have seen, the phosphate question need not bother us and we can see our
way clear toward solving the nitrate question. We gave the Government $20,000,000 to experiment
on the production of nitrates from the air and the results will serve for fields as well as
firearms. But the question of an independent supply of cheap potash is still unsolved.

IV

COAL-TAR COLORS

If you put a bit of soft coal into a test tube (or, if you haven't a test tube, into a clay
tobacco pipe and lute it over with clay) and heat it you will find a gas coming out of the
end of the tube that will burn with a yellow smoky flame. After all the gas comes off you will
find in the bottom of the test tube a chunk of dry, porous coke. These, then, are the two main
products of the destructive distillation of coal. But if you are an unusually observant person,
that is, if you are a born chemist with an eye to by-products, you will notice along in the
middle of the tube where it is neither too hot nor too cold some dirty drops of water and some
black sticky stuff. If you are just an ordinary person, you won't pay any attention to this
because there is only a little of it and because what you are after is the coke and gas. You
regard the nasty, smelly mess that comes in between as merely a nuisance because it clogs up
and spoils your nice, clean tube.

Now that is the way the gas-makers and coke-makers--being for the most part ordinary persons
and not born chemists--used to regard the water and tar that got into their pipes. They washed
it out so as to have the gas clean and then ran it into the creek. But the neighbors--especially
those who fished in the stream below the gas-works--made a fuss about spoiling the water, so
the gas-men gave away the tar to the boys for use in celebrating the Fourth of July and election
night or sold it for roofing.

But this same tar, which for a hundred years was thrown away and nearly half of which is thrown
away yet in the United States, turns out to be one of the most useful things in the world.
It is one of the strategic points in war and commerce. It wounds and heals. It supplies munitions
and medicines. It is like the magic purse of Fortunatus from which anything wished for could
be drawn. The chemist puts his hand into the black mass and draws out all the colors of the
rainbow. This evil-smelling substance beats the rose in the production of perfume and surpasses
the honey-comb in sweetness.

Bishop Berkeley, after having proved that all matter was in your mind, wrote a book to prove
that wood tar would cure all diseases. Nobody reads it now. He had a sort of mystical idea
that tar contained the quintessence of the forest, the purified spirit of the trees, which
could somehow revive the spirit of man. People said he was crazy on the subject, and doubtless
he was, but the interesting thing about it is that not even his active and ingenious imagination
could begin to suggest all of the strange things that can be got out of tar, whether wood or coal.

The reason why tar supplies all sorts of useful material is because it is indeed the quintessence
of the forest, of the forests of untold millenniums if it is coal tar. If you are acquainted
with a village tinker, one of those all-round mechanics who still survive in this age of specialization
and can mend anything from a baby-carriage to an automobile, you will know that he has on the
floor of his back shop a heap of broken machinery from which he can get almost anything he
wants, a copper wire, a zinc plate, a brass screw or a steel rod. Now coal tar is the scrap-heap
of the vegetable kingdom. It contains a little of almost everything that makes up trees. But
you must not imagine that all that comes out of coal tar is contained in it. There are only
about a dozen primary products extracted from coal tar, but from these the chemist is able
to build up hundreds of thousands of new substances. This is true creative chemistry, for most
of these compounds are not to be found in plants and never existed before they were made in
the laboratory. It used to be thought that organic compounds, the products of vegetable and
animal life, could only be produced by organized beings, that they were created out of inorganic
matter by the magic touch of some "vital principle." But since the chemist has learned how,
he finds it easier to make organic than inorganic substances and he is confident that he can
reproduce any compound that he can analyze. He cannot only imitate the manufacturing processes
of the plants and animals, but he can often beat them at their own game.

When coal is heated in the open air it is burned up and nothing but the ashes is left. But
heat the coal in an enclosed vessel, say a big fireclay retort, and it cannot burn up because
the oxygen of the air cannot get to it. So it breaks up. All parts of it that can be volatized
at a high heat pass off through the outlet pipe and nothing is left in the retort but coke,
that is carbon with the ash it contains. When the escaping vapors reach a cool part of the
outlet pipe the oily and tarry matter condenses out. Then the gas is passed up through a tower
down which water spray is falling and thus is washed free from ammonia and everything else
that is soluble in water.

This process is called "destructive distillation." What products come off depends not only
upon the composition of the particular variety of coal used, but upon the heat, pressure and
rapidity of distillation. The way you run it depends upon what you are most anxious to have.
If you want illuminating gas you will leave in it the benzene. If you are after the greatest
yield of tar products, you impoverish the gas by taking out the benzene and get a blue instead
of a bright yellow flame. If all you are after is cheap coke, you do not bother about the by-products,
but let them escape and burn as they please. The tourist passing across the coal region at
night could see through his car window the flames of hundreds of old-fashioned bee-hive coke-ovens
and if he were of economical mind he might reflect that this display of fireworks was costing
the country $75,000,000 a year besides consuming the irreplaceable fuel supply of the future.
But since the gas was not needed outside of the cities and since the coal tar, if it could
be sold at all, brought only a cent or two a gallon, how could the coke-makers be expected
to throw out their old bee-hive ovens and put in the expensive retorts and towers necessary
to the recovery of the by-products? But within the last ten years the by-product ovens have
come into use and now nearly half our coke is made in them.

Although the products of destructive distillation vary within wide limits, yet the following
table may serve to give an approximate idea of what may be got from a ton of soft coal:

  1 ton of coal may give
      Gas, 12,000 cubic feet
      Liquor (Washings) ammonium sulfate (7-25 pounds)
      Tar (120 pounds)  benzene (10-20 pounds)
                        toluene (3 pounds)
                        xylene  (1-1/2 pounds)
                        phenol  (1/2 pound)
                        naphthalene (3/8 pound)
                        anthracene  (1/4 pound)
                        pitch (80 pounds)
      Coke (1200-1500 pounds)

When the tar is redistilled we get, among other things, the ten "crudes" which are fundamental
material for making dyes. Their names are: benzene, toluene, xylene, phenol, cresol, naphthalene,
anthracene, methyl anthracene, phenanthrene and carbazol.

There! I had to introduce you to the whole receiving line, but now that that ceremony is over
we are at liberty to do as we do at a reception, meet our old friends, get acquainted with
one or two more and turn our backs on the rest. Two of them, I am sure, you've met before,
phenol, which is common carbolic acid, and naphthalene, which we use for mothballs. But notice
one thing in passing, that not one of them is a dye. They are all colorless liquids or white
solids. Also they all have an indescribable odor--all odors that you don't know are indescribable--which
gives them and their progeny, even when odorless, the name of "aromatic compounds."

The most important of the ten because he is the father of the family is benzene, otherwise
called benzol, but must not be confused with "benzine" spelled with an i which we used to burn
and clean our clothes with. "Benzine" is a kind of gasoline, but benzene alias benzol has quite
another constitution, although it looks and burns the same. Now the search for the constitution
of benzene is one of the most exciting chapters in chemistry; also one of the most intricate
chapters, but, in spite of that, I believe I can make the main point of it clear even to those
who have never studied chemistry--provided they retain their childish liking for puzzles. It
is really much like putting together the old six-block Chinese puzzle. The chemist can work
better if he has a picture of what he is working with. Now his unit is the molecule, which
is too small even to analyze with the microscope, no matter how high powered. So he makes up
a sort of diagram of the molecule, and since he knows the number of atoms and that they are
somehow attached to one another, he represents each atom by the first letter of its name and
the points of attachment or bonds by straight lines connecting the atoms of the different elements.
Now it is one of the rules of the game that all the bonds must be connected or hooked up with
atoms at both ends, that there shall be no free hands reaching out into empty space. Carbon,
for instance, has four bonds and hydrogen only one. They unite, therefore, in the proportion
of one atom of carbon to four of hydrogen, or CH{4}, which is methane or marsh gas and obviously
the simplest of the hydrocarbons. But we have more complex hydrocarbons such as C{6}H{14},
known as hexane. Now if you try to draw the diagrams or structural formulas of these two compounds
you will easily get

    H        H H H H H H
    |        | | | | | |
  H-C-H    H-C-C-C-C-C-C-H
    |        | | | | | |
    H        H H H H H H
  methane      hexane

Each carbon atom, you see, has its four hands outstretched and duly grasped by one-handed hydrogen
atoms or by neighboring carbon atoms in the chain. We can have such chains as long as you please,
thirty or more in a chain; they are all contained in kerosene and paraffin.

So far the chemist found it east to construct diagrams that would satisfy his sense of the
fitness of things, but when he found that benzene had the compostion C{6}H{6} he was puzzled.
If you try to draw the picture of C{6}H{6} you will get something like this:

   | | | | | |
  -C-C-C-C-C-C-
   | | | | | |
   H H H H H H

which is an absurdity because more than half of the carbon hands are waving wildly around asking
to be held by something. Benzene, C{6}H{6}, evidently is like hexane, C{6}H{14}, in having
a chain of six carbon atoms, but it has dropped its H's like an Englishman. Eight of the H's
are missing.

Now one of the men who was worried over this benzene puzzle was the German chemist, Kekulé.
One evening after working over the problem all day he was sitting by the fire trying to rest,
but he could not throw it off his mind. The carbon and the hydrogen atoms danced like imps
on the carpet and as he watched them through his half-closed eyes he suddenly saw that the
chain of six carbon atoms had joined at the ends and formed a ring while the six hydrogen atoms
were holding on to the outside hands, in this fashion:

      H
      |
      C
     / \\
  H-C   C-H
    ||  |
  H-C   C-H
     \ //
      C
      |
      H

Professor Kekulé saw at once that the demons of his subconscious self had furnished him with
a clue to the labyrinth, and so it proved. We need not suppose that the benzene molecule if
we could see it would look anything like this diagram of it, but the theory works and that
is all the scientist asks of any theory. By its use thousands of new compounds have been constructed
which have proved of inestimable value to man. The modern chemist is not a discoverer, he is
an inventor. He sits down at his desk and draws a "Kekulé ring" or rather hexagon. Then he
rubs out an H and hooks a nitro group (NO{2}) on to the carbon in place of it; next he rubs
out the O{2} of the nitro group and puts in H{2}; then he hitches on such other elements, or
carbon chains and rings as he likes. He works like an architect designing a house and when
he gets a picture of the proposed compounds to suit him he goes into the laboratory to make
it. First he takes down the bottle of benzene and boils up some of this with nitric acid and
sulfuric acid. This he puts in the nitro group and makes nitro-benzene, C{6}H{5}NO{2}. He treats
this with hydrogen, which displaces the oxygen and gives C{6}H{5}NH{2} or aniline, which is
the basis of so many of these compounds that they are all commonly called "the aniline dyes."
But aniline itself is not a dye. It is a colorless or brownish oil.

It is not necessary to follow our chemist any farther now that we have seen how he works, but
before we pass on we will just look at one of his products, not one of the most complicated
but still complicated enough.

The name of this is sodium ditolyl-disazo-beta-naphthylamine- 6-sulfonic-beta-naphthylamine-3.6-disulfonate.

These chemical names of organic compounds are discouraging to the beginner and amusing to the
layman, but that is because neither of them realizes that they are not really words but formulas.
They are hyphenated because they come from Germany. The name given above is no more of a mouthful
than "a-square-plus-two-a-b-plus-b-square" or "Third Assistant Secretary of War to the President
of the United States of America." The trade name of this dye is Brilliant Congo, but while
that is handier to say it does not mean anything. Nobody but an expert in dyes would know what
it was, while from the formula name any chemist familiar with such compounds could draw its
picture, tell how it would behave and what it was made from, or even make it. The old alchemist
was a secretive and pretentious person and used to invent queer names for the purpose of mystifying
and awing the ignorant. But the chemist in dropping the al- has dropped the idea of secrecy
and his names, though equally appalling to the layman, are designed to reveal and not to conceal.

From this brief explanation the reader who has not studied chemistry will, I think, be able
to get some idea of how these very intricate compounds are built up step by step. A completed
house is hard to understand, but when we see the mason laying one brick on top of another it
does not seem so difficult, although if we tried to do it we should not find it so easy as
we think. Anyhow, let me give you a hint. If you want to make a good impression on a chemist
don't tell him that he seems to you a sort of magician, master of a black art, and all that
nonsense. The chemist has been trying for three hundred years to live down the reputation of
being inspired of the devil and it makes him mad to have his past thrown up at him in this
fashion. If his tactless admirers would stop saying "it is all a mystery and a miracle to me,
and I cannot understand it" and pay attention to what he is telling them they would understand
it and would find that it is no more of a mystery or a miracle than anything else. You can
make an electrician mad in the same way by interrupting his explanation of a dynamo by asking:
"But you cannot tell me what electricity really is." The electrician does not care a rap what
electricity "really is"--if there really is any meaning to that phrase. All he wants to know
is what he can do with it.

The tar obtained from the gas plant or the coke plant has now to be redistilled, giving off
the ten "crudes" already mentioned and leaving in the still sixty-five per cent. of pitch,
which may be used for roofing, paving and the like. The ten primary products or crudes are
then converted into secondary products or "intermediates" by processes like that for the conversion
of benzene into aniline. There are some three hundred of these intermediates in use and from
them are built up more than three times as many dyes. The year before the war the American
custom house listed 5674 distinct brands of synthetic dyes imported, chiefly from Germany,
but some of these were trade names for the same product made by different firms or represented
by different degrees of purity or form of preparation. Although the number of possible products
is unlimited and over five thousand dyes are known, yet only about nine hundred are in use.
We can summarize the situation so:

  Coal-tar --> 10 crudes --> 300 intermediates --> 900 dyes --> 5000 brands.

Or, to borrow the neat simile used by Dr. Bernhard C. Hesse, it is like cloth-making where
"ten fibers make 300 yarns which are woven into 900 patterns."

The advantage of the artificial dyestuffs over those found in nature lies in their variety
and adaptability. Practically any desired tint or shade can be made for any particular fabric.
If my lady wants a new kind of green for her stockings or her hair she can have it. Candies
and jellies and drinks can be made more attractive and therefore more appetizing by varied
colors. Easter eggs and Easter bonnets take on new and brighter hues.

More and more the chemist is becoming the architect of his own fortunes. He does not make discoveries
by picking up a beaker and pouring into it a little from each bottle on the shelf to see what
happens. He generally knows what he is after, and he generally gets it, although he is still
often baffled and occasionally happens on something quite unexpected and perhaps more valuable
than what he was looking for. Columbus was looking for India when he ran into an obstacle that
proved to be America. William Henry Perkin was looking for quinine when he blundered into that
rich and undiscovered country, the aniline dyes. William Henry was a queer boy. He had rather
listen to a chemistry lecture than eat. When he was attending the City of London School at
the age of thirteen there was an extra course of lectures on chemistry given at the noon recess,
so he skipped his lunch to take them in. Hearing that a German chemist named Hofmann had opened
a laboratory in the Royal College of London he headed for that. Hofmann obviously had no fear
of forcing the young intellect prematurely. He perhaps had never heard that "the tender petals
of the adolescent mind must be allowed to open slowly." He admitted young Perkin at the age
of fifteen and started him on research at the end of his second year. An American student nowadays
thinks he is lucky if he gets started on his research five years older than Perkin. Now if
Hofmann had studied pedagogical psychology he would have been informed that nothing chills
the ardor of the adolescent mind like being set at tasks too great for its powers. If he had
heard this and believed it, he would not have allowed Perkin to spend two years in fruitless
endeavors to isolate phenanthrene from coal tar and to prepare artificial quinine--and in that
case Perkin would never have discovered the aniline dyes. But Perkin, so far from being discouraged,
set up a private laboratory so he could work over-time. While working here during the Easter
vacation of 1856--the date is as well worth remembering as 1066--he was oxidizing some aniline
oil when he got what chemists most detest, a black, tarry mass instead of nice, clean crystals.
When he went to wash this out with alcohol he was surprised to find that it gave a beautiful
purple solution. This was "mauve," the first of the aniline dyes.

The funny thing about it was that when Perkin tried to repeat the experiment with purer aniline
he could not get his color. It was because he was working with impure chemicals, with aniline
containing a little toluidine, that he discovered mauve. It was, as I said, a lucky accident.
But it was not accidental that the accident happened to the young fellow who spent his noonings
and vacations at the study of chemistry. A man may not find what he is looking for, but he
never finds anything unless he is looking for something.

Mauve was a product of creative chemistry, for it was a substance that had never existed before.
Perkin's next great triumph, ten years later, was in rivaling Nature in the manufacture of
one of her own choice products. This is alizarin, the coloring matter contained in the madder
root. It was an ancient and oriental dyestuff, known as "Turkey red" or by its Arabic name
of "alizari." When madder was introduced into France it became a profitable crop and at one
time half a million tons a year were raised. A couple of French chemists, Robiquet and Colin,
extracted from madder its active principle, alizarin, in 1828, but it was not until forty years
later that it was discovered that alizarin had for its base one of the coal-tar products, anthracene.
Then came a neck-and-neck race between Perkin and his German rivals to see which could discover
a cheap process for making alizarin from anthracene. The German chemists beat him to the patent
office by one day! Graebe and Liebermann filed their application for a patent on the sulfuric
acid process as No. 1936 on June 25, 1869. Perkin filed his for the same process as No. 1948
on June 26. It had required twenty years to determine the constitution of alizarin, but within
six months from its first synthesis the commercial process was developed and within a few years
the sale of artificial alizarin reached $8,000,000 annually. The madder fields of France were
put to other uses and even the French soldiers became dependent on made-in-Germany dyes for
their red trousers. The British soldiers were placed in a similar situation as regards their
red coats when after 1878 the azo scarlets put the cochineal bug out of business.

The modern chemist has robbed royalty of its most distinctive insignia, Tyrian purple. In ancient
times to be "porphyrogene," that is "born to the purple," was like admission to the Almanach
de Gotha at the present time, for only princes or their wealthy rivals could afford to pay
$600 a pound for crimsoned linen. The precious dye is secreted by a snail-like shellfish of
the eastern coast of the Mediterranean. From a tiny sac behind the head a drop of thick whitish
liquid, smelling like garlic, can be extracted. If this is spread upon cloth of any kind and
exposed to air and sunlight it turns first green, next blue and then purple. If the cloth is
washed with soap--that is, set by alkali--it becomes a fast crimson, such as Catholic cardinals
still wear as princes of the church. The Phoenician merchants made fortunes out of their monopoly,
but after the fall of Tyre it became one of "the lost arts"--and accordingly considered by
those whose faces are set toward the past as much more wonderful than any of the new arts.
But in 1909 Friedlander put an end to the superstition by analyzing Tyrian purple and finding
that it was already known. It was the same as a dye that had been prepared five years before
by Sachs but had not come into commercial use because of its inferiority to others in the market.
It required 12,000 of the mollusks to supply the little material needed for analysis, but once
the chemist had identified it he did not need to bother the Murex further, for he could make
it by the ton if he had wanted to. The coloring principle turned out to be a di-brom indigo,
that is the same as the substance extracted from the Indian plant, but with the addition of
two atoms of bromine. Why a particular kind of a shellfish should have got the habit of extracting
this rare element from sea water and stowing it away in this peculiar form is "one of those
things no fellow can find out." But according to the chemist the Murex mollusk made a mistake
in hitching the bromine to the wrong carbon atoms. He finds as he would word it that the 6:6'
di-brom indigo secreted by the shellfish is not so good as the 5:5' di-brom indigo now manufactured
at a cheap rate and in unlimited quantity. But we must not expect too much of a mollusk's mind.
In their cheapness lies the offense of the aniline dyes in the minds of some people. Our modern
aristocrats would delight to be entitled "porphyrogeniti" and to wear exclusive gowns of "purple
and scarlet from the isles of Elishah" as was done in Ezekiel's time, but when any shopgirl
or sailor can wear the royal color it spoils its beauty in their eyes. Applied science accomplishes
a real democracy such as legislation has ever failed to establish.

Any kind of dye found in nature can be made in the laboratory whenever its composition is understood
and usually it can be made cheaper and purer than it can be extracted from the plant. But to
work out a profitable process for making it synthetically is sometimes a task requiring high
skill, persistent labor and heavy expenditure. One of the latest and most striking of these
achievements of synthetic chemistry is the manufacture of indigo.

Indigo is one of the oldest and fastest of the dyestuffs. To see that it is both ancient and
lasting look at the unfaded blue cloths that enwrap an Egyptian mummy. When Caesar conquered
our British ancestors he found them tattooed with woad, the native indigo. But the chief source
of indigo was, as its name implies, India. In 1897 nearly a million acres in India were growing
the indigo plant and the annual value of the crop was $20,000,000. Then the fall began and
by 1914 India was producing only $300,000 worth! What had happened to destroy this profitable
industry? Some blight or insect? No, it was simply that the Badische Anilin-und-Soda Fabrik
had worked out a practical process for making artificial indigo.

That indigo on breaking up gave off aniline was discovered as early as 1840. In fact that was
how aniline got its name, for when Fritzsche distilled indigo with caustic soda he called the
colorless distillate "aniline," from the Arabic name for indigo, "anil" or "al-nil," that is,
"the blue-stuff." But how to reverse the process and get indigo from aniline puzzled chemists
for more than forty years until finally it was solved by Adolf von Baeyer of Munich, who died
in 1917 at the age of eighty-four. He worked on the problem of the constitution of indigo for
fifteen years and discovered several ways of making it. It is possible to start from benzene,
toluene or naphthalene. The first process was the easiest, but if you will refer to the products
of the distillation of tar you will find that the amount of toluene produced is less than the
naphthalene, which is hard to dispose of. That is, if a dye factory had worked out a process
for making indigo from toluene it would not be practicable because there was not enough toluene
produced to supply the demand for indigo. So the more complicated napthalene process was chosen
in preference to the others in order to utilize this by-product.

The Badische Anilin-und-Soda Fabrik spent $5,000,000 and seventeen years in chemical research
before they could make indigo, but they gained a monopoly (or, to be exact, ninety-six per
cent.) of the world's production. A hundred years ago indigo cost as much as $4 a pound. In
1914 we were paying fifteen cents a pound for it. Even the pauper labor of India could not
compete with the German chemists at that price. At the beginning of the present century Germany
was paying more than $3,000,000 a year for indigo. Fourteen years later Germany was selling
indigo to the amount of $12,600,000. Besides its cheapness, artificial indigo is preferable
because it is of uniform quality and greater purity. Vegetable indigo contains from forty to
eighty per cent. of impurities, among them various other tinctorial substances. Artificial
indigo is made pure and of any desired strength, so the dyers can depend on it.

The value of the aniline colors lies in their infinite variety. Some are fast, some will fade,
some will stand wear and weather as long as the fabric, some will wash out on the spot. Dyes
can be made that will attach themselves to wool, to silk or to cotton, and give it any shade
of any color. The period of discovery by accident has long gone by. The chemist nowadays decides
first just what kind of a dye he wants, and then goes to work systematically to make it. He
begins by drawing a diagram of the molecule, double-linking nitrogen or carbon and oxygen atoms
to give the required intensity, putting in acid or basic radicals to fasten it to the fiber,
shifting the color back and forth along the spectrum at will by introducing methyl groups,
until he gets it just to his liking.

Art can go ahead of nature in the dyestuff business. Before man found that he could make all
the dyes he wanted from the tar he had been burning up at home he searched the wide world over
to find colors by which he could make himself--or his wife--garments as beautiful as those
that arrayed the flower, the bird and the butterfly. He sent divers down into the Mediterranean
to rob the murex of his purple. He sent ships to the new world to get Brazil wood and to the
oldest world for indigo. He robbed the lady cochineal of her scarlet coat. Why these peculiar
substances were formed only by these particular plants, mussels and insects it is hard to understand.
I don't know that Mrs. Cacti Coccus derived any benefit from her scarlet uniform when khaki
would be safer, and I can't imagine that to a shellfish it was of advantage to turn red as
it rots or to an indigo plant that its leaves in decomposing should turn blue. But anyhow,
it was man that took advantage of them until he learned how to make his own dyestuffs.

Our independent ancestors got along so far as possible with what grew in the neighborhood.
Sweetapple bark gave a fine saffron yellow. Ribbons were given the hue of the rose by poke
berry juice. The Confederates in their butternut-colored uniform were almost as invisible as
if in khaki or feldgrau. Madder was cultivated in the kitchen garden. Only logwood from Jamaica
and indigo from India had to be imported. That we are not so independent today is our own fault,
for we waste enough coal tar to supply ourselves and other countries with all the new dyes
needed. It is essentially a question of economy and organization. We have forgotten how to
economize, but we have learned how to organize.

The British Government gave the discoverer of mauve a title, but it did not give him any support
in his endeavors to develop the industry, although England led the world in textiles and needed
more dyes than any other country. So in 1874 Sir William Perkin relinquished the attempt to
manufacture the dyes he had discovered because, as he said, Oxford and Cambridge refused to
educate chemists or to carry on research. Their students, trained in the classics for the profession
of being a gentleman, showed a decided repugnance to the laboratory on account of its bad smells.
So when Hofmann went home he virtually took the infant industry along with him to Germany,
where Ph.D.'s were cheap and plentiful and not afraid of bad smells. There the business throve
amazingly, and by 1914 the Germans were manufacturing more than three-fourths of all the coal-tar
products of the world and supplying material for most of the rest. The British cursed the universities
for thus imperiling the nation through their narrowness and neglect; but this accusation, though
natural, was not altogether fair, for at least half the blame should go to the British dyer,
who did not care where his colors came from, so long as they were cheap. When finally the universities
did turn over a new leaf and began to educate chemists, the manufacturers would not employ
them. Before the war six English factories producing dyestuffs employed only 35 chemists altogether,
while one German color works, the Höchster Farbwerke, employed 307 expert chemists and 74 technologists.

This firm united with the six other leading dye companies of Germany on January 1, 1916, to
form a trust to last for fifty years. During this time they will maintain uniform prices and
uniform wage scales and hours of labor, and exchange patents and secrets. They will divide
the foreign business pro rata and share the profits. The German chemical works made big profits
during the war, mostly from munitions and medicines, and will be, through this new combination,
in a stronger position than ever to push the export trade.

As a consequence of letting the dye business get away from her, England found herself in a
fix when war broke out. She did not have dyes for her uniforms and flags, and she did not have
drugs for her wounded. She could not take advantage of the blockade to capture the German trade
in Asia and South America, because she could not color her textiles. A blue cotton dyestuff
that sold before the war at sixty cents a pound, brought $34 a pound. A bright pink rhodamine
formerly quoted at a dollar a pound jumped to $48. When one keg of dye ordinarily worth $15
was put up at forced auction sale in 1915 it was knocked down at $1500. The Highlanders could
not get the colors for their kilts until some German dyes were smuggled into England. The textile
industries of Great Britain, that brought in a billion dollars a year and employed one and
a half million workers, were crippled for lack of dyes. The demand for high explosives from
the front could not be met because these also are largely coal-tar products. Picric acid is
both a dye and an explosive. It is made from carbolic acid and the famous trinitrotoluene is
made from toluene, both of which you will find in the list of the ten fundamental "crudes."

Both Great Britain and the United States realized the danger of allowing Germany to recover
her former monopoly, and both have shown a readiness to cast overboard their traditional policies
to meet this emergency. The British Government has discovered that a country without a tariff
is a land without walls. The American Government has discovered that an industry is not benefited
by being cut up into small pieces. Both governments are now doing all they can to build up
big concerns and to provide them with protection. The British Government assisted in the formation
of a national company for the manufacture of synthetic dyes by taking one-sixth of the stock
and providing $500,000 for a research laboratory. But this effort is now reported to be "a
great failure" because the Government put it in charge of the politicians instead of the chemists.

The United States, like England, had become dependent upon Germany for its dyestuffs. We imported
nine-tenths of what we used and most of those that were produced here were made from imported
intermediates. When the war broke out there were only seven firms and 528 persons employed
in the manufacture of dyes in the United States. One of these, the Schoelkopf Aniline and Chemical
Works, of Buffalo, deserves mention, for it had stuck it out ever since 1879, and in 1914 was
making 106 dyes. In June, 1917, this firm, with the encouragement of the Government Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, joined with some of the other American producers to form
a trade combination, the National Aniline and Chemical Company. The Du Pont Company also entered
the field on an extensive scale and soon there were 118 concerns engaged in it with great profit.
During the war $200,000,000 was invested in the domestic dyestuff industry. To protect this
industry Congress put on a specific duty of five cents a pound and an ad valorem duty of 30
per cent. on imported dyestuffs; but if, after five years, American manufacturers are not producing
60 per cent. in value of the domestic consumption, the protection is to be removed. For some
reason, not clearly understood and therefore hotly discussed, Congress at the last moment struck
off the specific duty from two of the most important of the dyestuffs, indigo and alizarin,
as well as from all medicinals and flavors.

The manufacture of dyes is not a big business, but it is a strategic business. Heligoland is
not a big island, but England would have been glad to buy it back during the war at a high
price per square yard. American industries employing over two million men and women and producing
over three billion dollars' worth of products a year are dependent upon dyes. Chief of these
is of course textiles, using more than half the dyes; next come leather, paper, paint and ink.
We have been importing more than $12,000,000 worth of coal-tar products a year, but the cottonseed
oil we exported in 1912 would alone suffice to pay that bill twice over. But although the manufacture
of dyes cannot be called a big business, in comparison with some others, it is a paying business
when well managed. The German concerns paid on an average 22 per cent. dividends on their capital
and sometimes as high as 50 per cent. Most of the standard dyes have been so long in use that
the patents are off and the processes are well enough known. We have the coal tar and we have
the chemists, so there seems no good reason why we should not make our own dyes, at least enough
of them so we will not be caught napping as we were in 1914. It was decidedly humiliating for
our Government to have to beg Germany to sell us enough colors to print our stamps and greenbacks
and then have to beg Great Britain for permission to bring them over by Dutch ships.

The raw material for the production of coal-tar products we have in abundance if we will only
take the trouble to save it. In 1914 the crude light oil collected from the coke-ovens would
have produced only about 4,500,000 gallons of benzol and 1,500,000 gallons of toluol, but in
1917 this output was raised to 40,200,000 gallons of benzol and 10,200,000 of toluol. The toluol
was used mostly in the manufacture of trinitrotoluol for use in Europe. When the war broke
out in 1914 it shut off our supply of phenol (carbolic acid) for which we were dependent upon
foreign sources. This threatened not only to afflict us with headaches by depriving us of aspirin
but also to removed the consolation of music, for phenol is used in making phonographic records.
Mr. Edison with his accustomed energy put up a factory within a few weeks for the manufacture
of synthetic phenol. When we entered the war the need for phenol became yet more imperative,
for it was needed to make picric acid for filling bombs. This demand was met, and in 1917 there
were fifteen new plants turning out 64,146,499 pounds of phenol valued at $23,719,805.

Some of the coal-tar products, as we see, serve many purposes. For instance, picric acid appears
in three places in this book. It is a high explosive. It is a powerful and permanent yellow
dye as any one who has touched it knows. Thirdly it is used as an antiseptic to cover burned
skin. Other coal-tar dyes are used for the same purpose, "malachite green," "brilliant green,"
"crystal violet," "ethyl violet" and "Victoria blue," so a patient in a military hospital is
decorated like an Easter egg. During the last five years surgeons have unfortunately had unprecedented
opportunities for the study of wounds and fortunately they have been unprecedentedly successful
in finding improved methods of treating them. In former wars a serious wound meant usually
death or amputation. Now nearly ninety per cent. of the wounded are able to continue in the
service. The reason for this improvement is that medicines are now being made to order instead
of being gathered "from China to Peru." The old herb doctor picked up any strange plant that
he could find and tried it on any sick man that would let him. This empirical method, though
hard on the patients, resulted in the course of five thousand years in the discovery of a number
of useful remedies. But the modern medicine man when he knows the cause of the disease is usually
able to devise ways of counteracting it directly. For instance, he knows, thanks to Pasteur
and Metchnikoff, that the cause of wound infection is the bacterial enemies of man which swarm
by the million into any breach in his protective armor, the skin. Now when a breach is made
in a line of intrenchments the defenders rush troops to the threatened spot for two purposes,
constructive and destructive, engineers and warriors, the former to build up the rampart with
sandbags, the latter to kill the enemy. So when the human body is invaded the blood brings
to the breach two kinds of defenders. One is the serum which neutralizes the bacterial poison
and by coagulating forms a new skin or scab over the exposed flesh. The other is the phagocytes
or white corpuscles, the free lances of our corporeal militia, which attack and kill the invading
bacteria. The aim of the physician then is to aid these defenders as much as possible without
interfering with them. Therefore the antiseptic he is seeking is one that will assist the serum
in protecting and repairing the broken tissues and will kill the hostile bacteria without killing
the friendly phagocytes. Carbolic acid, the most familiar of the coal-tar antiseptics, will
destroy the bacteria when it is diluted with 250 parts of water, but unfortunately it puts
a stop to the fighting activities of the phagocytes when it is only half that strength, or
one to 500, so it cannot destroy the infection without hindering the healing.

In this search for substances that would attack a specific disease germ one of the leading
investigators was Prof. Paul Ehrlich, a German physician of the Hebrew race. He found that
the aniline dyes were useful for staining slides under the microscope, for they would pick
out particular cells and leave others uncolored and from this starting point he worked out
organic and metallic compounds which would destroy the bacteria and parasites that cause some
of the most dreadful of diseases. A year after the war broke out Professor Ehrlich died while
working in his laboratory on how to heal with coal-tar compounds the wounds inflicted by explosives
from the same source.

One of the most valuable of the aniline antiseptics employed by Ehrlich is flavine or, if the
reader prefers to call it by its full name, diaminomethylacridinium chloride. Flavine, as its
name implies, is a yellow dye and will kill the germs causing ordinary abscesses when in solution
as dilute as one part of the dye to 200,000 parts of water, but it does not interfere with
the bactericidal action of the white blood corpuscles unless the solution is 400 times as strong
as this, that is one part in 500. Unlike carbolic acid and other antiseptics it is said to
stimulate the serum instead of impairing its activity. Another antiseptic of the coal-tar family
which has recently been brought into use by Dr. Dakin of the Rockefeller Institute is that
called by European physicians chloramine-T and by American physicians chlorazene and by chemists
para-toluene-sodium-sulfo-chloramide.

This may serve to illustrate how a chemist is able to make such remedies as the doctor needs,
instead of depending upon the accidental by-products of plants. On an earlier page I explained
how by starting with the simplest of ring-compounds, the benzene of coal tar, we could get
aniline. Suppose we go a step further and boil the aniline oil with acetic acid, which is the
acid of vinegar minus its water. This easy process gives us acetanilid, which when introduced
into the market some years ago under the name of "antifebrin" made a fortune for its makers.

The making of medicines from coal tar began in 1874 when Kolbe made salicylic acid from carbolic
acid. Salicylic acid is a rheumatism remedy and had previously been extracted from willow bark.
If now we treat salicylic acid with concentrated acetic acid we get "aspirin." From aniline
again are made "phenacetin," "antipyrin" and a lot of other drugs that have become altogether
too popular as headache remedies--say rather "headache relievers."

Another class of synthetics equally useful and likewise abused, are the soporifics, such as
"sulphonal," "veronal" and "medinal." When it is not desired to put the patient to sleep but
merely to render insensible a particular place, as when a tooth is to be pulled, cocain may
be used. This, like alcohol and morphine, has proved a curse as well as a blessing and its
sale has had to be restricted because of the many victims to the habit of using this drug.
Cocain is obtained from the leaves of the South American coca tree, but can be made artificially
from coal-tar products. The laboratory is superior to the forest because other forms of local
anesthetics, such as eucain and novocain, can be made that are better than the natural alkaloid
because more effective and less poisonous.

I must not forget to mention another lot of coal-tar derivatives in which some of my readers
will take a personal interest. That is the photographic developers. I am old enough to remember
when we used to develop our plates in ferrous sulfate solution and you never saw nicer negatives
than we got with it. But when pyrogallic acid came in we switched over to that even though
it did stain our fingers and sometimes our plates. Later came a swarm of new organic reducing
agents under various fancy names, such as metol, hydro (short for hydro-quinone) and eikongen
("the image-maker"). Every fellow fixed up his own formula and called his fellow-members of
the camera club fools for not adopting it though he secretly hoped they would not.

Under the double stimulus of patriotism and high prices the American drug and dyestuff industry
developed rapidly. In 1917 about as many pounds of dyes were manufactured in America as were
imported in 1913 and our exports of American-made dyes exceeded in value our imports before
the war. In 1914 the output of American dyes was valued at $2,500,000. In 1917 it amounted
to over $57,000,000. This does not mean that the problem was solved, for the home products
were not equal in variety and sometimes not in quality to those made in Germany. Many valuable
dyes were lacking and the cost was of course much higher. Whether the American industry can
compete with the foreign in an open market and on equal terms is impossible to say because
such conditions did not prevail before the war and they are not going to prevail in the future.
Formerly the large German cartels through their agents and branches in this country kept the
business in their own hands and now the American manufacturers are determined to maintain the
independence they have acquired. They will not depend hereafter upon the tariff to cut off
competition but have adopted more effective measures. The 4500 German chemical patents that
had been seized by the Alien Property Custodian were sold by him for $250,000 to the Chemical
Foundation, an association of American manufacturers organized "for the Americanization of
such institutions as may be affected thereby, for the exclusion or elimination of alien interests
hostile or detrimental to said industries and for the advancement of chemical and allied science
and industry in the United States." The Foundation has a large fighting fund so that it "may
be able to commence immediately and prosecute with the utmost vigor infringement proceedings
whenever the first German attempt shall hereafter be made to import into this country."

So much mystery has been made of the achievements of German chemists--as though the Teutonic
brain had a special lobe for that faculty, lacking in other craniums--that I want to quote
what Dr. Hesse says about his first impressions of a German laboratory of industrial research:

     Directly after graduating from the University of Chicago in
     1896, I entered the employ of the largest coal-tar dye works in
     the world at its plant in Germany and indeed in one of its
     research laboratories. This was my first trip outside the
     United States and it was, of course, an event of the first
     magnitude for me to be in Europe, and, as a chemist, to be in
     Germany, in a German coal-tar dye plant, and to cap it all in
     its research laboratory--a real sanctum sanctorum for
     chemists. In a short time the daily routine wore the novelty
     off my experience and I then settled down to calm analysis and
     dispassionate appraisal of my surroundings and to compare what
     was actually before and around me with my expectations. I
     found that the general laboratory equipment was no better than
     what I had been accustomed to; that my colleagues had no better
     fundamental training than I had enjoyed nor any better fact--or
     manipulative--equipment than I; that those in charge of the
     work had no better general intellectual equipment nor any more
     native ability than had my instructors; in short, there was
     nothing new about it all, nothing that we did not have back
     home, nothing--except the specific problems that were engaging
     their attention, and the special opportunities of attacking
     them. Those problems were of no higher order of complexity than
     those I had been accustomed to for years, in fact, most of them
     were not very complex from a purely intellectual viewpoint.
     There was nothing inherently uncanny, magical or wizardly about
     their occupation whatever. It was nothing but plain hard work
     and keeping everlastingly at it. Now, what was the actual thing
     behind that chemical laboratory that we did not have at home?
     It was money, willing to back such activity, convinced that in
     the final outcome, a profit would be made; money, willing to
     take university graduates expecting from them no special
     knowledge other than a good and thorough grounding in
     scientific research and provide them with opportunity to become
     specialists suited to the factory's needs.

It is evidently not impossible to make the United States self-sufficient in the matter of coal-tar
products. We've got the tar; we've got the men; we've got the money, too. Whether such a policy
would pay us in the long run or whether it is necessary as a measure of military or commercial
self-defense is another question that cannot here be decided. But whatever share we may have
in it the coal-tar industry has increased the economy of civilization and added to the wealth
of the world by showing how a waste by-product could be utilized for making new dyes and valuable
medicines, a better use for tar than as fuel for political bonfires and as clothing for the
nakedness of social outcasts.

V

SYNTHETIC PERFUMES AND FLAVORS

The primitive man got his living out of such wild plants and animals as he could find. Next
he, or more likely his wife, began to cultivate the plants and tame the animals so as to insure
a constant supply. This was the first step toward civilization, for when men had to settle
down in a community (civitas) they had to ameliorate their manners and make laws protecting
land and property. In this settled and orderly life the plants and animals improved as well
as man and returned a hundredfold for the pains that their master had taken in their training.
But still man was dependent upon the chance bounties of nature. He could select, but he could
not invent. He could cultivate, but he could not create. If he wanted sugar he had to send
to the West Indies. If he wanted spices he had to send to the East Indies. If he wanted indigo
he had to send to India. If he wanted a febrifuge he had to send to Peru. If he wanted a fertilizer
he had to send to Chile. If he wanted rubber he had to send to the Congo. If he wanted rubies
he had to send to Mandalay. If he wanted otto of roses he had to send to Turkey. Man was not
yet master of his environment.

This period of cultivation, the second stage of civilization, began before the dawn of history
and lasted until recent times. We might almost say up to the twentieth century, for it was
not until the fundamental laws of heredity were discovered that man could originate new species
of plants and animals according to a predetermined plan by combining such characteristics as
he desired to perpetuate. And it was not until the fundamental laws of chemistry were discovered
that man could originate new compounds more suitable to his purpose than any to be found in
nature. Since the progress of mankind is continuous it is impossible to draw a date line, unless
a very jagged one, along the frontier of human culture, but it is evident that we are just
entering upon the third era of evolution in which man will make what he needs instead of trying
to find it somewhere. The new epoch has hardly dawned, yet already a man may stay at home in
New York or London and make his own rubber and rubies, his own indigo and otto of roses. More
than this, he can make gems and colors and perfumes that never existed since time began. The
man of science has signed a declaration of independence of the lower world and we are now in
the midst of the revolution.

Our eyes are dazzled by the dawn of the new era. We know what the hunter and the horticulturist
have already done for man, but we cannot imagine what the chemist can do. If we look ahead
through the eyes of one of the greatest of French chemists, Berthelot, this is what we shall see:

     The problem of food is a chemical problem. Whenever energy can
     be obtained economically we can begin to make all kinds of
     aliment, with carbon borrowed from carbonic acid, hydrogen
     taken from the water and oxygen and nitrogen drawn from the
     air.... The day will come when each person will carry for his
     nourishment his little nitrogenous tablet, his pat of fatty
     matter, his package of starch or sugar, his vial of aromatic
     spices suited to his personal taste; all manufactured
     economically and in unlimited quantities; all independent of
     irregular seasons, drought and rain, of the heat that withers
     the plant and of the frost that blights the fruit; all free
     from pathogenic microbes, the origin of epidemics and the
     enemies of human life. On that day chemistry will have
     accomplished a world-wide revolution that cannot be estimated.
     There will no longer be hills covered with vineyards and fields
     filled with cattle. Man will gain in gentleness and morality
     because he will cease to live by the carnage and destruction of
     living creatures.... The earth will be covered with grass,
     flowers and woods and in it the human race will dwell in the
     abundance and joy of the legendary age of gold--provided that a
     spiritual chemistry has been discovered that changes the nature
     of man as profoundly as our chemistry transforms material
     nature.

But this is looking so far into the future that we can trust no man's eyesight, not even Berthelot's.
There is apparently no impossibility about the manufacture of synthetic food, but at present
there is no apparent probability of it. There is no likelihood that the laboratory will ever
rival the wheat field. The cornstalk will always be able to work cheaper than the chemist in
the manufacture of starch. But in rarer and choicer products of nature the chemist has proved
his ability to compete and even to excel.

What have been from the dawn of history to the rise of synthetic chemistry the most costly
products of nature? What could tempt a merchant to brave the perils of a caravan journey over
the deserts of Asia beset with Arab robbers? What induced the Portuguese and Spanish mariners
to risk their frail barks on perilous waters of the Cape of Good Hope or the Horn? The chief
prizes were perfumes, spices, drugs and gems. And why these rather than what now constitutes
the bulk of oversea and overland commerce? Because they were precious, portable and imperishable.
If the merchant got back safe after a year or two with a little flask of otto of roses, a package
of camphor and a few pearls concealed in his garments his fortune was made. If a single ship
of the argosy sent out from Lisbon came back with a load of sandalwood, indigo or nutmeg it
was regarded as a successful venture. You know from reading the Bible, or if not that, from
your reading of Arabian Nights, that a few grains of frankincense or a few drops of perfumed
oil were regarded as gifts worthy the acceptance of a king or a god. These products of the
Orient were equally in demand by the toilet and the temple. The unctorium was an adjunct of
the Roman bathroom. Kings had to be greased and fumigated before they were thought fit to sit
upon a throne. There was a theory, not yet altogether extinct, that medicines brought from
a distance were most efficacious, especially if, besides being expensive, they tasted bad like
myrrh or smelled bad like asafetida. And if these failed to save the princely patient he was
embalmed in aromatics or, as we now call them, antiseptics of the benzene series.

Today, as always, men are willing to pay high for the titillation of the senses of smell and
taste. The African savage will trade off an ivory tusk for a piece of soap reeking with synthetic
musk. The clubman will pay $10 for a bottle of wine which consists mostly of water with about
ten per cent. of alcohol, worth a cent or two, but contains an unweighable amount of the "bouquet"
that can only be produced on the sunny slopes of Champagne or in the valley of the Rhine. But
very likely the reader is quite as extravagant, for when one buys the natural violet perfumery
he is paying at the rate of more than $10,000 a pound for the odoriferous oil it contains;
the rest is mere water and alcohol. But you would not want the pure undiluted oil if you could
get it, for it is unendurable. A single whiff of it paralyzes your sense of smell for a time
just as a loud noise deafens you.

Of the five senses, three are physical and two chemical. By touch we discern pressures and
surface textures. By hearing we receive impressions of certain air waves and by sight of certain
ether waves. But smell and taste lead us to the heart of the molecule and enable us to tell
how the atoms are put together. These twin senses stand like sentries at the portals of the
body, where they closely scrutinize everything that enters. Sounds and sights may be disagreeable,
but they are never fatal. A man can live in a boiler factory or in a cubist art gallery, but
he cannot live in a room containing hydrogen sulfide. Since it is more important to be warned
of danger than guided to delights our senses are made more sensitive to pain than pleasure.
We can detect by the smell one two-millionth of a milligram of oil of roses or musk, but we
can detect one two-billionth of a milligram of mercaptan, which is the vilest smelling compound
that man has so far invented. If you do not know how much a milligram is consider a drop picked
up by the point of a needle and imagine that divided into two billion parts. Also try to estimate
the weight of the odorous particles that guide a dog to the fox or warn a deer of the presence
of man. The unaided nostril can rival the spectroscope in the detection and analysis of unweighable
amounts of matter.

What we call flavor or savor is a joint effect of taste and odor in which the latter predominates.
There are only four tastes of importance, acid, alkaline, bitter and sweet. The acid, or sour
taste, is the perception of hydrogen atoms charged with positive electricity. The alkaline,
or soapy taste, is the perception of hydroxyl radicles charged with negative electricity. The
bitter and sweet tastes and all the odors depend upon the chemical constitution of the compound,
but the laws of the relation have not yet been worked out. Since these sense organs, the taste
and smell buds, are sunk in the moist mucous membrane they can only be touched by substances
soluble in water, and to reach the sense of smell they must also be volatile so as to be diffused
in the air inhaled by the nose. The "taste" of food is mostly due to the volatile odors of
it that creep up the back-stairs into the olfactory chamber.

A chemist given an unknown substance would have to make an elementary analysis and some tedious
tests to determine whether it contained methyl or ethyl groups, whether it was an aldehyde
or an ester, whether the carbon atoms were singly or doubly linked and whether it was an open
chain or closed. But let him get a whiff of it and he can give instantly a pretty shrewd guess
as to these points. His nose knows.

Although the chemist does not yet know enough to tell for certain from looking at the structural
formula what sort of odor the compound would have or whether it would have any, yet we can
divide odoriferous substances into classes according to their constitution. What are commonly
known as "fruity" odors belong mostly to what the chemist calls the fatty or aliphatic series.
For instance, we may have in a ripe fruit an alcohol (say ethyl or common alcohol) and an acid
(say acetic or vinegar) and a combination of these, the ester or organic salt (in this case
ethyl acetate), which is more odorous than either of its components. These esters of the fatty
acids give the characteristic savor to many of our favorite fruits, candies and beverages.
The pear flavor, amyl acetate, is made from acetic acid and amyl alcohol--though amyl alcohol
(fusel oil) has a detestable smell. Pineapple is ethyl butyrate--but the acid part of it (butyric
acid) is what gives Limburger cheese its aroma. These essential oils are easily made in the
laboratory, but cannot be extracted from the fruit for separate use.

If the carbon chain contains one or more double linkages we get the "flowery" perfumes. For
instance, here is the symbol of geraniol, the chief ingredient of otto of roses:

  (CH{3}){2}C = CHCH{2}CH{2}C(CH{3}){2} = CHCH{2}OH

The rose would smell as sweet under another name, but it may be questioned whether it would
stand being called by the name of dimethyl-2-6-octadiene-2-6-ol-8. Geraniol by oxidation goes
into the aldehyde, citral, which occurs in lemons, oranges and verbena flowers. Another compound
of this group, linalool, is found in lavender, bergamot and many flowers.

Geraniol, as you would see if you drew up its structural formula in the way I described in
the last chapter, contains a chain of six carbon atoms, that is, the same number as make a
benzene ring. Now if we shake up geraniol and other compounds of this group (the diolefines)
with diluted sulfuric acid the carbon chain hooks up to form a benzene ring, but with the other
carbon atoms stretched across it; rather too complicated to depict here. These "bridged rings"
of the formula C{5}H{8}, or some multiple of that, constitute the important group of the terpenes
which occur in turpentine and such wild and woodsy things as sage, lavender, caraway, pine
needles and eucalyptus. Going further in this direction we are led into the realm of the heavy
oriental odors, patchouli, sandalwood, cedar, cubebs, ginger and camphor. Camphor can now be
made directly from turpentine so we may be independent of Formosa and Borneo.

When we have a six carbon ring without double linkings (cyclo-aliphatic) or with one or two
such, we get soft and delicate perfumes like the violet (ionone and irone). But when these
pass into the benzene ring with its three double linkages the odor becomes more powerful and
so characteristic that the name "aromatic compound" has been extended to the entire class of
benzene derivatives, although many of them are odorless. The essential oils of jasmine, orange
blossoms, musk, heliotrope, tuberose, ylang ylang, etc., consist mostly of this class and can
be made from the common source of aromatic compounds, coal tar.

The synthetic flavors and perfumes are made in the same way as the dyes by starting with some
coal-tar product or other crude material and building up the molecule to the desired complexity.
For instance, let us start with phenol, the ill-smelling and poisonous carbolic acid of disagreeable
associations and evil fame. Treat this to soda-water and it is transformed into salicylic acid,
a white odorless powder, used as a preservative and as a rheumatism remedy. Add to this methyl
alcohol which is obtained by the destructive distillation of wood and is much more poisonous
than ordinary ethyl alcohol. The alcohol and the acid heated together will unite with the aid
of a little sulfuric acid and we get what the chemist calls methyl salicylate and other people
call oil of wintergreen, the same as is found in wintergreen berries and birch bark. We have
inherited a taste for this from our pioneer ancestors and we use it extensively to flavor our
soft drinks, gum, tooth paste and candy, but the Europeans have not yet found out how nice it is.

But, starting with phenol again, let us heat it with caustic alkali and chloroform. This gives
us two new compounds of the same composition, but differing a little in the order of the atoms.
If you refer back to the diagram of the benzene ring which I gave in the last chapter, you
will see that there are six hydrogen atoms attached to it. Now any or all these hydrogen atoms
may be replaced by other elements or groups and what the product is depends not only on what
the new elements are, but where they are put. It is like spelling words. The three letters
t, r and a mean very different things according to whether they are put together as art, tar
or rat. Or, to take a more apposite illustration, every hostess knows that the success of her
dinner depends upon how she seats her guests around the table. So in the case of aromatic compounds,
a little difference in the seating arrangement around the benzene ring changes the character.
The two derivatives of phenol, which we are now considering, have two substituting groups.
One is--O-H (called the hydroxyl group). The other is--CHO (called the aldehyde group). If
these are opposite (called the para position) we have an odorless white solid. If they are
side by side (called the ortho position) we have an oil with the odor of meadowsweet. Treating
the odorless solid with methyl alcohol we get audepine (or anisic aldehyde) which is the perfume
of hawthorn blossoms. But treating the other of the twin products, the fragrant oil, with dry
acetic acid ("Perkin's reaction") we get cumarin, which is the perfume part of the tonka or
tonquin beans that our forefathers used to carry in their snuff boxes. One ounce of cumarin
is equal to four pounds of tonka beans. It smells sufficiently like vanilla to be used as a
substitute for it in cheap extracts. In perfumery it is known as "new mown hay."

You may remember what I said on a former page about the career of William Henry Perkin, the
boy who loved chemistry better than eating, and how he discovered the coal-tar dyes. Well,
it is also to his ingenious mind that we owe the starting of the coal-tar perfume business
which has had almost as important a development. Perkin made cumarin in 1868, but this, like
the dye industry, escaped from English hands and flew over the North Sea. Before the war Germany
was exporting $1,500,000 worth of synthetic perfumes a year. Part of these went to France,
where they were mixed and put up in fancy bottles with French names and sold to Americans at
fancy prices.

The real vanilla flavor, vanillin, was made by Tiemann in 1874. At first it sold for nearly
$800 a pound, but now it may be had for $10. How extensively it is now used in chocolate, ice
cream, soda water, cakes and the like we all know. It should be noted that cumarin and vanillin,
however they may be made, are not imitations, but identical with the chief constituent of the
tonka and vanilla beans and, of course, are equally wholesome or harmless. But the nice palate
can distinguish a richer flavor in the natural extracts, for they contain small quantities
of other savory ingredients.

A true perfume consists of a large number of odoriferous chemical compounds mixed in such proportions
as to produce a single harmonious effect upon the sense of smell in a fine brand of perfume
may be compounded a dozen or twenty different ingredients and these, if they are natural essences,
are complex mixtures of a dozen or so distinct substances. Perfumery is one of the fine arts.
The perfumer, like the orchestra leader, must know how to combine and coördinate his instruments
to produce a desired sensation. A Wagnerian opera requires 103 musicians. A Strauss opera requires
112. Now if the concert manager wants to economize he will insist upon cutting down on the
most expensive musicians and dropping out some of the others, say, the supernumerary violinists
and the man who blows a single blast or tinkles a triangle once in the course of the evening.
Only the trained ear will detect the difference and the manager can make more money.

Suppose our mercenary impresario were unable to get into the concert hall of his famous rival.
He would then listen outside the window and analyze the sound in this fashion: "Fifty per cent.
of the sound is made by the tuba, 20 per cent. by the bass drum, 15 per cent. by the 'cello
and 10 per cent. by the clarinet. There are some other instruments, but they are not loud and
I guess if we can leave them out nobody will know the difference." So he makes up his orchestra
out of these four alone and many people do not know the difference.

The cheap perfumer goes about it in the same way. He analyzes, for instance, the otto or oil
of roses which cost during the war $400 a pound--if you could get it at any price--and he finds
that the chief ingredient is geraniol, costing only $5, and next is citronelol, costing $20;
then comes nerol and others. So he makes up a cheap brand of perfumery out of three or four
such compounds. But the genuine oil of roses, like other natural essences, contains a dozen
or more constituents and to leave many of them out is like reducing an orchestra to a few loud-sounding
instruments or a painting to a three-color print. A few years ago an attempt was made to make
music electrically by producing separately each kind of sound vibration contained in the instruments
imitated. Theoretically that seems easy, but practically the tone was not satisfactory because
the tones and overtones of a full orchestra or even of a single violin are too numerous and
complex to be reproduced individually. So the synthetic perfumes have not driven out the natural
perfumes, but, on the contrary, have aided and stimulated the growth of flowers for essences.
The otto or attar of roses, favorite of the Persian monarchs and romances, has in recent years
come chiefly from Bulgaria. But wars are not made with rosewater and the Bulgars for the last
five years have been engaged in other business than cultivating their own gardens. The alembic
or still was invented by the Arabian alchemists for the purpose of obtaining the essential
oil or attar of roses. But distillation, even with the aid of steam, is not altogether satisfactory.
For instance, the distilled rose oil contains anywhere from 10 to 74 per cent. of a paraffin
wax (stearopten) that is odorless and, on the other hand, phenyl-ethyl alcohol, which is an
important constituent of the scent of roses, is broken up in the process of distillation. So
the perfumer can improve on the natural or rather the distilled oil by leaving out part of
the paraffin and adding the missing alcohol. Even the imported article taken direct from the
still is not always genuine, for the wily Bulgar sometimes "increases the yield" by sprinkling
his roses in the vat with synthetic geraniol just as the wily Italian pours a barrel of American
cottonseed oil over his olives in the press.

Another method of extracting the scent of flowers is by enfleurage, which takes advantage of
the tendency of fats to absorb odors. You know how butter set beside fish in the ice box will
get a fishy flavor. In enfleurage moist air is carried up a tower passing alternately over
trays of fresh flowers, say violets, and over glass plates covered with a thin layer of lard.
The perfumed lard may then be used as a pomade or the perfume may be extracted by alcohol.

But many sweet flowers do not readily yield an essential oil, so in such oases we have to rely
altogether upon more or less successful substitutes. For instance, the perfumes sold under
the names of "heliotrope," "lily of the valley," "lilac," "cyclamen," "honeysuckle," "sweet
pea," "arbutus," "mayflower" and "magnolia" are not produced from these flowers but are simply
imitations made from other essences, synthetic or natural. Among the "thousand flowers" that
contribute to the "Eau de Mille Fleurs" are the civet cat, the musk deer and the sperm whale.
Some of the published formulas for "Jockey Club" call for civet or ambergris and those of "Lavender
Water" for musk and civet. The less said about the origin of these three animal perfumes the
better. Fortunately they are becoming too expensive to use and are being displaced by synthetic
products more agreeable to a refined imagination. The musk deer may now be saved from extinction
since we can make tri-nitro-butyl-xylene from coal tar. This synthetic musk passes muster to
human nostrils, but a cat will turn up her nose at it. The synthetic musk is not only much
cheaper than the natural, but a dozen times as strong, or let us say, goes a dozen times as
far, for nobody wants it any stronger.

Such powerful scents as these are only pleasant when highly diluted, yet they are, as we have
seen, essential ingredients of the finest perfumes. For instance, the natural oil of jasmine
and other flowers contain traces of indols and skatols which have most disgusting odors. Though
our olfactory organs cannot detect their presence yet we perceive their absence so they have
to be put into the artificial perfume. Just so a brief but violent discord in a piece of music
or a glaring color contrast in a painting may be necessary to the harmony of the whole.

It is absurd to object to "artificial" perfumes, for practically all perfumes now sold are
artificial in the sense of being compounded by the art of the perfumer and whether the materials
he uses are derived from the flowers of yesteryear or of Carboniferous Era is nobody's business
but his. And he does not tell. The materials can be purchased in the open market. Various recipes
can be found in the books. But every famous perfumer guards well the secret of his formulas
and hands it as a legacy to his posterity. The ancient Roman family of Frangipani has been
made immortal by one such hereditary recipe. The Farina family still claims to have the exclusive
knowledge of how to make Eau de Cologne. This famous perfume was first compounded by an Italian,
Giovanni Maria Farina, who came to Cologne in 1709. It soon became fashionable and was for
a time the only scent allowed at some of the German courts. The various published recipes contain
from six to a dozen ingredients, chiefly the oils of neroli, rosemary, bergamot, lemon and
lavender dissolved in very pure alcohol and allowed to age like wine. The invention, in 1895,
of artificial neroli (orange flowers) has improved the product.

French perfumery, like the German, had its origin in Italy, when Catherine de' Medici came
to Paris as the bride of Henri II. She brought with her, among other artists, her perfumer,
Sieur Toubarelli, who established himself in the flowery land of Grasse. Here for four hundred
years the industry has remained rooted and the family formulas have been handed down from generation
to generation. In the city of Grasse there were at the outbreak of the war fifty establishments
making perfumes. The French perfumer does not confine himself to a single sense. He appeals
as well to sight and sound and association. He adds to the attractiveness of his creation by
a quaintly shaped bottle, an artistic box and an enticing name such as "Dans les Nues," "Le
Coeur de Jeannette," "Nuit de Chine," "Un Air Embaumé," "Le Vertige," "Bon Vieux Temps," "L'Heure
Bleue," "Nuit d'Amour," "Quelques Fleurs," "Djer-Kiss."

The requirements of a successful scent are very strict. A perfume must be lasting, but not
strong. All its ingredients must continue to evaporate in the same proportion, otherwise it
will change odor and deteriorate. Scents kill one another as colors do. The minutest trace
of some impurity or foreign odor may spoil the whole effect. To mix the ingredients in a vessel
of any metal but aluminum or even to filter through a tin funnel is likely to impair the perfume.
The odoriferous compounds are very sensitive and unstable bodies, otherwise they would have
no effect upon the olfactory organ. The combination that would be suitable for a toilet water
would not be good for a talcum powder and might spoil in a soap. Perfumery is used even in
the "scentless" powders and soaps. In fact it is now used more extensively, if less intensively,
than ever before in the history of the world. During the Unwashed Ages, commonly called the
Dark Ages, between the destruction of the Roman baths and the construction of the modern bathroom,
the art of the perfumer, like all the fine arts, suffered an eclipse. "The odor of sanctity"
was in highest esteem and what that odor was may be imagined from reading the lives of the
saints. But in the course of centuries the refinements of life began to seep back into Europe
from the East by means of the Arabs and Crusaders, and chemistry, then chiefly the art of cosmetics,
began to revive. When science, the greatest democratizing agent on earth, got into action it
elevated the poor to the ranks of kings and priests in the delights of the palate and the nose.
We should not despise these delights, for the pleasure they confer is greater, in amount at
least, than that of the so-called higher senses. We eat three times a day; some of us drink
oftener; few of us visit the concert hall or the art gallery as often as we do the dining room.
Then, too, these primitive senses have a stronger influence upon our emotional nature than
those acquired later in the course of evolution.

VI

CELLULOSE

Organic compounds, on which our life and living depend, consist chiefly of four elements: carbon,
hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. These compounds are sometimes hard to analyze, but when once
the chemist has ascertained their constitution he can usually make them out of their elements--if
he wants to. He will not want to do it as a business unless it pays and it will not pay unless
the manufacturing process is cheaper than the natural process. This depends primarily upon
the cost of the crude materials. What, then, is the market price of these four elements? Oxygen
and nitrogen are free as air, and as we have seen in the second chapter, their direct combination
by the electric spark is possible. Hydrogen is free in the form of water but expensive to extricate
by means of the electric current. But we need more carbon than anything else and where shall
we get that? Bits of crystallized carbon can be picked up in South Africa and elsewhere, but
those who can afford to buy them prefer to wear them rather than use them in making synthetic
food. Graphite is rare and hard to melt. We must then have recourse to the compounds of carbon.
The simplest of these, carbon dioxide, exists in the air but only four parts in ten thousand
by volume. To extract the carbon and get it into combination with the other elements would
be a difficult and expensive process. Here, then, we must call in cheap labor, the cheapest
of all laborers, the plants. Pine trees on the highlands and cotton plants on the lowlands
keep their green traps set all the day long and with the captured carbon dioxide build up cellulose.
If, then, man wants free carbon he can best get it by charring wood in a kiln or digging up
that which has been charred in nature's kiln during the Carboniferous Era. But there is no
reason why he should want to go back to elemental carbon when he can have it already combined
with hydrogen in the remains of modern or fossil vegetation. The synthetic products on which
modern chemistry prides itself, such as vanillin, camphor and rubber, are not built up out
of their elements, C, H and O, although they might be as a laboratory stunt. Instead of that
the raw material of the organic chemist is chiefly cellulose, or the products of its recent
or remote destructive distillation, tar and oil.

It is unnecessary to tell the reader what cellulose is since he now holds a specimen of it
in his hand, pretty pure cellulose except for the sizing and the specks of carbon that mar
the whiteness of its surface. This utilization of cellulose is the chief cause of the difference
between the modern world and the ancient, for what is called the invention of printing is essentially
the inventing of paper. The Romans made type to stamp their coins and lead pipes with and if
they had had paper to print upon the world might have escaped the Dark Ages. But the clay tablets
of the Babylonians were cumbersome; the wax tablets of the Greeks were perishable; the papyrus
of the Egyptians was fragile; parchment was expensive and penning was slow, so it was not until
literature was put on a paper basis that democratic education became possible. At the present
time sheepskin is only used for diplomas, treaties and other antiquated documents. And even
if your diploma is written in Latin it is likely to be made of sulfated cellulose.

The textile industry has followed the same law of development that I have indicated in the
other industries. Here again we find the three stages of progress, (1) utilization of natural
products, (2) cultivation of natural products, (3) manufacture of artificial products. The
ancients were dependent upon plants, animals and insects for their fibers. China used silk,
Greece and Rome used wool, Egypt used flax and India used cotton. In the course of cultivation
for three thousand years the animal and vegetable fibers were lengthened and strengthened and
cheapened. But at last man has risen to the level of the worm and can spin threads to suit
himself. He can now rival the wasp in the making of paper. He is no longer dependent upon the
flax and the cotton plant, but grinds up trees to get his cellulose. A New York newspaper uses
up nearly 2000 acres of forest a year. The United States grinds up about five million cords
of wood a year in the manufacture of pulp for paper and other purposes.

In making "mechanical pulp" the blocks of wood, mostly spruce and hemlock, are simply pressed
sidewise of the grain against wet grindstones. But in wood fiber the cellulose is in part combined
with lignin, which is worse than useless. To break up the ligno-cellulose combine chemicals
are used. The logs for this are not ground fine, but cut up by disk chippers. The chips are
digested for several hours under heat and pressure with acid or alkali. There are three processes
in vogue. In the most common process the reagent is calcium sulfite, made by passing sulfur
fumes (SO{2}) into lime water. In another process a solution of caustic of soda is used to
disintegrate the wood. The third, known as the "sulfate" process, should rather be called the
sulfide process since the active agent is an alkaline solution of sodium sulfide made by roasting
sodium sulfate with the carbonaceous matter extracted from the wood. This sulfate process,
though the most recent of the three, is being increasingly employed in this country, for by
means of it the resinous pine wood of the South can be worked up and the final product, known
as kraft paper because it is strong, is used for wrapping.

But whatever the process we get nearly pure cellulose which, as you can see by examining this
page under a microscope, consists of a tangled web of thin white fibers, the remains of the
original cell walls. Owing to the severe treatment it has undergone wood pulp paper does not
last so long as the linen rag paper used by our ancestors. The pages of the newspapers, magazines
and books printed nowadays are likely to become brown and brittle in a few years, no great
loss for the most part since they have served their purpose, though it is a pity that a few
copies of the worst of them could not be printed on permanent paper for preservation in libraries
so that future generations could congratulate themselves on their progress in civilization.

But in our absorption in the printed page we must not forget the other uses of paper. The paper
clothing, so often prophesied, has not yet arrived. Even paper collars have gone out of fashion--if
they ever were in. In Germany during the war paper was used for socks, shirts and shoes as
well as handkerchiefs and napkins but it could not stand wear and washing. Our sanitary engineers
have set us to drinking out of sharp-edged paper cups and we blot our faces instead of wiping
them. Twine is spun of paper and furniture made of the twine, a rival of rattan. Cloth and
matting woven of paper yarn are being used for burlap and grass in the making of bags and suitcases.

Here, however, we are not so much interested in manufactures of cellulose itself, that is,
wood, paper and cotton, as we are in its chemical derivatives. Cellulose, as we can see from
the symbol, C{6}H{10}O{5}, is composed of the three elements of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen.
These are present in the same proportion as in starch (C{6}H{10}O{5}), while glucose or grape
sugar (C{6}H{12}O{6}) has one molecule of water more. But glucose is soluble in cold water
and starch is soluble in hot, while cellulose is soluble in neither. Consequently cellulose
cannot serve us for food, although some of the vegetarian animals, notably the goat, have a
digestive apparatus that can handle it. In Finland and Germany birch wood pulp and straw were
used not only as an ingredient of cattle food but also put into war bread. It is not likely,
however, that the human stomach even under the pressure of famine is able to get much nutriment
out of sawdust. But by digesting with dilute acid sawdust can be transformed into sugars and
these by fermentation into alcohol, so it would be possible for a man after he has read his
morning paper to get drunk on it.

If the cellulose, instead of being digested a long time in dilute acid, is dipped into a solution
of sulfuric acid (50 to 80 per cent.) and then washed and dried it acquires a hard, tough and
translucent coating that makes it water-proof and grease-proof. This is the "parchment paper"
that has largely replaced sheepskin. Strong alkali has a similar effect to strong acid. In
1844 John Mercer, a Lancashire calico printer, discovered that by passing cotton cloth or yarn
through a cold 30 per cent. solution of caustic soda the fiber is shortened and strengthened.
For over forty years little attention was paid to this discovery, but when it was found that
if the material was stretched so that it could not shrink on drying the twisted ribbons of
the cotton fiber were changed into smooth-walled cylinders like silk, the process came into
general use and nowadays much that passes for silk is "mercerized" cotton.

Another step was taken when Cross of London discovered that when the mercerized cotton was
treated with carbon disulfide it was dissolved to a yellow liquid. This liquid contains the
cellulose in solution as a cellulose xanthate and on acidifying or heating the cellulose is
recovered in a hydrated form. If this yellow solution of cellulose is squirted out of tubes
through extremely minute holes into acidulated water, each tiny stream becomes instantly solidified
into a silky thread which may be spun and woven like that ejected from the spinneret of the
silkworm. The origin of natural silk, if we think about it, rather detracts from the pleasure
of wearing it, and if "he who needlessly sets foot upon a worm" is to be avoided as a friend
we must hope that the advance of the artificial silk industry will be rapid enough to relieve
us of the necessity of boiling thousands of baby worms in their cradles whenever we want silk
stockings.

  On a plain rush hurdle a silkworm lay
  When a proud young princess came that way.
  The haughty daughter of a lordly king
  Threw a sidelong glance at the humble thing,
  Little thinking she walked in pride
  In the winding sheet where the silkworm died.

But so far we have not reached a stage where we can altogether dispense with the services of
the silkworm. The viscose threads made by the process look as well as silk, but they are not
so strong, especially when wet.

Besides the viscose method there are several other methods of getting cellulose into solution
so that artificial fibers may be made from it. A strong solution of zinc chloride will serve
and this process used to be employed for making the threads to be charred into carbon filaments
for incandescent bulbs. Cellulose is also soluble in an ammoniacal solution of copper hydroxide.
The liquid thus formed is squirted through a fine nozzle into a precipitating solution of caustic
soda and glucose, which brings back the cellulose to its original form.

In the chapter on explosives I explained how cellulose treated with nitric acid in the presence
of sulfuric acid was nitrated. The cellulose molecule having three hydroxyl (--OH) groups,
can take up one, two or three nitrate groups (--ONO{2}). The higher nitrates are known as guncotton
and form the basis of modern dynamite and smokeless powder. The lower nitrates, known as pyroxylin,
are less explosive, although still very inflammable. All these nitrates are, like the original
cellulose, insoluble in water, but unlike the original cellulose, soluble in a mixture of ether
and alcohol. The solution is called collodion and is now in common use to spread a new skin
over a wound. The great war might be traced back to Nobel's cut finger. Alfred Nobel was a
Swedish chemist--and a pacifist. One day while working in the laboratory he cut his finger,
as chemists are apt to do, and, again as chemists are apt to do, he dissolved some guncotton
in ether-alcohol and swabbed it on the wound. At this point, however, his conduct diverges
from the ordinary, for instead of standing idle, impatiently waving his hand in the air to
dry the film as most people, including chemists, are apt to do, he put his mind on it and it
occurred to him that this sticky stuff, slowly hardening to an elastic mass, might be just
the thing he was hunting as an absorbent and solidifier of nitroglycerin. So instead of throwing
away the extra collodion that he had made he mixed it with nitroglycerin and found that it
set to a jelly. The "blasting gelatin" thus discovered proved to be so insensitive to shock
that it could be safely transported or fired from a cannon. This was the first of the high
explosives that have been the chief factor in modern warfare.

But on the whole, collodion has healed more wounds than it has caused besides being of infinite
service to mankind otherwise. It has made modern photography possible, for the film we use
in the camera and moving picture projector consists of a gelatin coating on a pyroxylin backing.
If collodion is forced through fine glass tubes instead of through a slit, it comes out a thread
instead of a film. If the collodion jet is run into a vat of cold water the ether and alcohol
dissolve; if it is run into a chamber of warm air they evaporate. The thread of nitrated cellulose
may be rendered less inflammable by taking out the nitrate groups by treatment with ammonium
or calcium sulfide. This restores the original cellulose, but now it is an endless thread of
any desired thickness, whereas the native fiber was in size and length adapted to the needs
of the cottonseed instead of the needs of man. The old motto, "If you want a thing done the
way you want it you must do it yourself," explains why the chemist has been called in to supplement
the work of nature in catering to human wants.

Instead of nitric acid we may use strong acetic acid to dissolve the cotton. The resulting
cellulose acetates are less inflammable than the nitrates, but they are more brittle and more
expensive. Motion picture films made from them can be used in any hall without the necessity
of imprisoning the operator in a fire-proof box where if anything happens he can burn up all
by himself without disturbing the audience. The cellulose acetates are being used for auto
goggles and gas masks as well as for windows in leather curtains and transparent coverings
for index cards. A new use that has lately become important is the varnishing of aeroplane
wings, as it does not readily absorb water or catch fire and makes the cloth taut and air-tight.
Aeroplane wings can be made of cellulose acetate sheets as transparent as those of a dragon-fly
and not easy to see against the sky.

The nitrates, sulfates and acetates are the salts or esters of the respective acids, but recently
true ethers or oxides of cellulose have been prepared that may prove still better since they
contain no acid radicle and are neutral and stable.

These are in brief the chief processes for making what is commonly but quite improperly called
"artificial silk." They are not the same substance as silkworm silk and ought not to be--though
they sometimes are--sold as such. They are none of them as strong as the silk fiber when wet,
although if I should venture to say which of the various makes weakens the most on wetting
I should get myself into trouble. I will only say that if you have a grudge against some fisherman
give him a fly line of artificial silk, 'most any kind.

The nitrate process was discovered by Count Hilaire de Chardonnet while he was at the Polytechnic
School of Paris, and he devoted his life and his fortune trying to perfect it. Samples of the
artificial silk were exhibited at the Paris Exposition in 1889 and two years later he started
a factory at Basançon. In 1892, Cross and Bevan, English chemists, discovered the viscose or
xanthate process, and later the acetate process. But although all four of these processes were
invented in France and England, Germany reaped most benefit from the new industry, which was
bringing into that country $6,000,000 a year before the war. The largest producer in the world
was the Vereinigte Glanzstoff-Fabriken of Elberfeld, which was paying annual dividends of 34
per cent. in 1914.

The raw materials, as may be seen, are cheap and abundant, merely cellulose, salt, sulfur,
carbon, air and water. Any kind of cellulose can be used, cotton waste, rags, paper, or even
wood pulp. The processes are various, the names of the products are numerous and the uses are
innumerable. Even the most inattentive must have noticed the widespread employment of these
new forms of cellulose. We can buy from a street barrow for fifteen cents near-silk neckties
that look as well as those sold for seventy-five. As for wear--well, they all of them wear
till after we get tired of wearing them. Paper "vulcanized" by being run through a 30 per cent.
solution of zinc chloride and subjected to hydraulic pressure comes out hard and horny and
may be used for trunks and suit cases. Viscose tubes for sausage containers are more sanitary
and appetizing than the customary casings. Viscose replaces ramie or cotton in the Welsbach
gas mantles. Viscose film, transparent and a thousandth of an inch thick (cellophane), serves
for candy wrappers. Cellulose acetate cylinders spun out of larger orifices than silk are trying--not
very successfully as yet--to compete with hog's bristles and horsehair. Stir powdered metals
into the cellulose solution and you have the Bayko yarn. Bayko (from the manufacturers, Farbenfabriken
vorm. Friedr. Bayer and Company) is one of those telescoped names like Socony, Nylic, Fominco,
Alco, Ropeco, Ripans, Penn-Yan, Anzac, Dagor, Dora and Cadets, which will be the despair of
future philologers.

Soluble cellulose may enable us in time to dispense with the weaver as well as the silkworm.
It may by one operation give us fabrics instead of threads. A machine has been invented for
manufacturing net and lace, the liquid material being poured on one side of a roller and the
fabric being reeled off on the other side. The process seems capable of indefinite extension
and application to various sorts of woven, knit and reticulated goods. The raw material is
cotton waste and the finished fabric is a good substitute for silk. As in the process of making
artificial silk the cellulose is dissolved in a cupro-ammoniacal solution, but instead of being
forced out through minute openings to form threads, as in that process, the paste is allowed
to flow upon a revolving cylinder which is engraved with the pattern of the desired textile.
A scraper removes the excess and the turning of the cylinder brings the paste in the engraved
lines down into a bath which solidifies it.

Tulle or net is now what is chiefly being turned out, but the engraved design may be as elaborate
and artistic as desired, and various materials can be used. Since the threads wherever they
cross are united, the fabric is naturally stronger than the ordinary. It is all of a piece
and not composed of parts. In short, we seem to be on the eve of a revolution in textiles that
is the same as that taking place in building materials. Our concrete structures, however great,
are all one stone. They are not built up out of blocks, but cast as a whole.

Lace has always been the aristocrat among textiles. It has maintained its exclusiveness hitherto
by being based upon hand labor. In no other way could one get so much painful, patient toil
put into such a light and portable form. A filmy thing twined about a neck or dropping from
a wrist represented years of work by poor peasant girls or pallid, unpaid nuns. A visit to
a lace factory, even to the public rooms where the wornout women were not to be seen, is enough
to make one resolve never to purchase any such thing made by hand again. But our good resolutions
do not last long and in time we forget the strained eyes and bowed backs, or, what is worse,
value our bit of lace all the more because it means that some poor woman has put her life and
health into it, netting and weaving, purling and knotting, twining and twisting, throwing and
drawing, thread by thread, day after day, until her eyes can no longer see and her fingers
have become stiffened.

But man is not naturally cruel. He does not really enjoy being a slave driver, either of human
or animal slaves, although he can be hardened to it with shocking ease if there seems no other
way of getting what he wants. So he usually welcomes that Great Liberator, the Machine. He
prefers to drive the tireless engine than to whip the straining horses. He had rather see the
farmer riding at ease in a mowing machine than bending his back over a scythe.

The Machine is not only the Great Liberator, it is the Great Leveler also. It is the most powerful
of the forces for democracy. An aristocracy can hardly be maintained except by distinction
in dress, and distinction in dress can only be maintained by sumptuary laws or costliness.
Sumptuary laws are unconstitutional in this country, hence the stress laid upon costliness.
But machinery tends to bring styles and fabrics within the reach of all. The shopgirl is almost
as well dressed on the street as her rich customer. The man who buys ready-made clothing is
only a few weeks behind the vanguard of the fashion. There is often no difference perceptible
to the ordinary eye between cheap and high-priced clothing once the price tag is off. Jewels
as a portable form of concentrated costliness have been in favor from the earliest ages, but
now they are losing their factitious value through the advance of invention. Rubies of unprecedented
size, not imitation, but genuine rubies, can now be manufactured at reasonable rates. And now
we may hope that lace may soon be within the reach of all, not merely lace of the established
forms, but new and more varied and intricate and beautiful designs, such as the imagination
has been able to conceive, but the hand cannot execute.

Dissolving nitrocellulose in ether and alcohol we get the collodion varnish that we are all
familiar with since we have used it on our cut fingers. Spread it on cloth instead of your
skin and it makes a very good leather substitute. As we all know to our cost the number of
animals to be skinned has not increased so rapidly in recent years as the number of feet to
be shod. After having gone barefoot for a million years or so the majority of mankind have
decided to wear shoes and this change in fashion comes at a time, roughly speaking, when pasture
land is getting scarce. Also there are books to be bound and other new things to be done for
which leather is needed. The war has intensified the stringency; so has feminine fashion. The
conventions require that the shoe-tops extend nearly to skirt-bottom and this means that an
inch or so must be added to the shoe-top every year. Consequent to this rise in leather we
have to pay as much for one shoe as we used to pay for a pair.

Here, then, is a chance for Necessity to exercise her maternal function. And she has responded
nobly. A progeny of new substances have been brought forth and, what is most encouraging to
see, they are no longer trying to worm their way into favor as surreptitious surrogates under
the names of "leatheret," "leatherine," "leatheroid" and "leather-this-or-that" but come out
boldly under names of their own coinage and declare themselves not an imitation, not even a
substitute, but "better than leather." This policy has had the curious result of compelling
the cowhide men to take full pages in the magazines to call attention to the forgotten virtues
of good old-fashioned sole-leather! There are now upon the market synthetic shoes that a vegetarian
could wear with a clear conscience. The soles are made of some rubber composition; the uppers
of cellulose fabric (canvas) coated with a cellulose solution such as I have described.

Each firm keeps its own process for such substance a dead secret, but without prying into these
we can learn enough to satisfy our legitimate curiosity. The first of the artificial fabrics
was the old-fashioned and still indispensable oil-cloth, that is canvas painted or printed
with linseed oil carrying the desired pigments. Linseed oil belongs to the class of compounds
that the chemist calls "unsaturated" and the psychologist would call "unsatisfied." They take
up oxygen from the air and become solid, hence are called the "drying oils," although this
does not mean that they lose water, for they have not any to lose. Later, ground cork was mixed
with the linseed oil and then it went by its Latin name, "linoleum."

The next step was to cut loose altogether from the natural oils and use for the varnish a solution
of some of the cellulose esters, usually the nitrate (pyroxylin or guncotton), more rarely
the acetate. As a solvent the ether-alcohol mixture forming collodion was, as we have seen,
the first to be employed, but now various other solvents are in use, among them castor oil,
methyl alcohol, acetone, and the acetates of amyl or ethyl. Some of these will be recognized
as belonging to the fruit essences that we considered in Chapter V, and doubtless most of us
have perceived an odor as of over-ripe pears, bananas or apples mysteriously emanating from
a newly lacquered radiator. With powdered bronze, imitation gold, aluminum or something of
the kind a metallic finish can be put on any surface.

Canvas coated or impregnated with such soluble cellulose gives us new flexible and durable
fabrics that have other advantages over leather besides being cheaper and more abundant. Without
such material for curtains and cushions the automobile business would have been sorely hampered.
It promises to provide us with a book binding that will not crumble to powder in the course
of twenty years. Linen collars may be water-proofed and possibly Dame Fashion--being a fickle
lady--may some day relent and let us wear such sanitary and economical neckwear. For shoes,
purses, belts and the like the cellulose varnish or veneer is usually colored and stamped to
resemble the grain of any kind of leather desired, even snake or alligator.

If instead of dissolving the cellulose nitrate and spreading it on fabric we combine it with
camphor we get celluloid, a plastic solid capable of innumerable applications. But that is
another story and must be reserved for the next chapter.

But before leaving the subject of cellulose proper I must refer back again to its chief source,
wood. We inherited from the Indians a well-wooded continent. But the pioneer carried an ax
on his shoulder and began using it immediately. For three hundred years the trees have been
cut down faster than they could grow, first to clear the land, next for fuel, then for lumber
and lastly for paper. Consequently we are within sight of a shortage of wood as we are of coal
and oil. But the coal and oil are irrecoverable while the wood may be regrown, though it would
require another three hundred years and more to grow some of the trees we have cut down. For
fuel a pound of coal is about equal to two pounds of wood, and a pound of gasoline to three
pounds of wood in heating value, so there would be a great loss in efficiency and economy if
the world had to go back to a wood basis. But when that time shall come, as, of course, it
must come some time, the wood will doubtless not be burned in its natural state but will be
converted into hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a gas producer or will be distilled in closed
ovens giving charcoal and gas and saving the by-products, the tar and acid liquors. As it is
now the lumberman wastes two-thirds of every tree he cuts down. The rest is left in the forest
as stump and tops or thrown out at the mill as sawdust and slabs. The slabs and other scraps
may be used as fuel or worked up into small wood articles like laths and clothes-pins. The
sawdust is burned or left to rot. But it is possible, although it may not be profitable, to
save all this waste.

In a former chapter I showed the advantages of the introduction of by-product coke-ovens. The
same principle applies to wood as to coal. If a cord of wood (128 cubic feet) is subjected
to a process of destructive distillation it yields about 50 bushels of charcoal, 11,500 cubic
feet of gas, 25 gallons of tar, 10 gallons of crude wood alcohol and 200 pounds of crude acetate
of lime. Resinous woods such as pine and fir distilled with steam give turpentine and rosin.
The acetate of lime gives acetic acid and acetone. The wood (methyl) alcohol is almost as useful
as grain (ethyl) alcohol in arts and industry and has the advantage of killing off those who
drink it promptly instead of slowly.

The chemist is an economical soul. He is never content until he has converted every kind of
waste product into some kind of profitable by-product. He now has his glittering eye fixed
upon the mountains of sawdust that pile up about the lumber mills. He also has a notion that
he can beat lumber for some purposes.

VII

SYNTHETIC PLASTICS

In the last chapter I told how Alfred Nobel cut his finger and, daubing it over with collodion,
was led to the discovery of high explosive, dynamite. I remarked that the first part of this
process--the hurting and the healing of the finger--might happen to anybody but not everybody
would be led to discovery thereby. That is true enough, but we must not think that the Swedish
chemist was the only observant man in the world. About this same time a young man in Albany,
named John Wesley Hyatt, got a sore finger and resorted to the same remedy and was led to as
great a discovery. His father was a blacksmith and his education was confined to what he could
get at the seminary of Eddytown, New York, before he was sixteen. At that age he set out for
the West to make his fortune. He made it, but after a long, hard struggle. His trade of typesetter
gave him a living in Illinois, New York or wherever he wanted to go, but he was not content
with his wages or his hours. However, he did not strike to reduce his hours or increase his
wages. On the contrary, he increased his working time and used it to increase his income. He
spent his nights and Sundays in making billiard balls, not at all the sort of thing you would
expect of a young man of his Christian name. But working with billiard balls is more profitable
than playing with them--though that is not the sort of thing you would expect a man of my surname
to say. Hyatt had seen in the papers an offer of a prize of $10,000 for the discovery of a
satisfactory substitute for ivory in the making of billiard balls and he set out to get that
prize. I don't know whether he ever got it or not, but I have in my hand a newly published
circular announcing that Mr. Hyatt has now perfected a process for making billiard balls "better
than ivory." Meantime he has turned out several hundred other inventions, many of them much
more useful and profitable, but I imagine that he takes less satisfaction in any of them than
he does in having solved the problem that he undertook fifty years ago.

The reason for the prize was that the game on the billiard table was getting more popular and
the game in the African jungle was getting scarcer, especially elephants having tusks more
than 2-7/16 inches in diameter. The raising of elephants is not an industry that promises as
quick returns as raising chickens or Belgian hares. To make a ball having exactly the weight,
color and resiliency to which billiard players have become accustomed seemed an impossibility.
Hyatt tried compressed wood, but while he did not succeed in making billiard balls he did build
up a profitable business in stamped checkers and dominoes.

Setting type in the way they did it in the sixties was hard on the hands. And if the skin got
worn thin or broken the dirty lead type were liable to infect the fingers. One day in 1863
Hyatt, finding his fingers were getting raw, went to the cupboard where was kept the "liquid
cuticle" used by the printers. But when he got there he found it was bare, for the vial had
tipped over--you know how easily they tip over--and the collodion had run out and solidified
on the shelf. Possibly Hyatt was annoyed, but if so he did not waste time raging around the
office to find out who tipped over that bottle. Instead he pulled off from the wood a bit of
the dried film as big as his thumb nail and examined it with that "'satiable curtiosity," as
Kipling calls it, which is characteristic of the born inventor. He found it tough and elastic
and it occurred to him that it might be worth $10,000. It turned out to be worth many times that.

Collodion, as I have explained in previous chapters, is a solution in ether and alcohol of
guncotton (otherwise known as pyroxylin or nitrocellulose), which is made by the action of
nitric acid on cotton. Hyatt tried mixing the collodion with ivory powder, also using it to
cover balls of the necessary weight and solidity, but they did not work very well and besides
were explosive. A Colorado saloon keeper wrote in to complain that one of the billiard players
had touched a ball with a lighted cigar, which set it off and every man in the room had drawn
his gun.

The trouble with the dissolved guncotton was that it could not be molded. It did not swell
up and set; it merely dried up and shrunk. When the solvent evaporated it left a wrinkled,
shriveled, horny film, satisfactory to the surgeon but not to the man who wanted to make balls
and hairpins and knife handles out of it. In England Alexander Parkes began working on the
problem in 1855 and stuck to it for ten years before he, or rather his backers, gave up. He
tried mixing in various things to stiffen up the pyroxylin. Of these, camphor, which he tried
in 1865, worked the best, but since he used castor oil to soften the mass articles made of
"parkesine" did not hold up in all weathers.

Another Englishman, Daniel Spill, an associate of Parkes, took up the problem where he had
dropped it and turned out a better product, "xylonite," though still sticking to the idea that
castor oil was necessary to get the two solids, the guncotton and the camphor, together.

But Hyatt, hearing that camphor could be used and not knowing enough about what others had
done to follow their false trails, simply mixed his camphor and guncotton together without
any solvent and put the mixture in a hot press. The two solids dissolved one another and when
the press was opened there was a clear, solid, homogeneous block of--what he named--"celluloid."
The problem was solved and in the simplest imaginable way. Tissue paper, that is, cellulose,
is treated with nitric acid in the presence of sulfuric acid. The nitration is not carried
so far as to produce the guncotton used in explosives but only far enough to make a soluble
nitrocellulose or pyroxylin. This is pulped and mixed with half the quantity of camphor, pressed
into cakes and dried. If this mixture is put into steam-heated molds and subjected to hydraulic
pressure it takes any desired form. The process remains essentially the same as was worked
out by the Hyatt brothers in the factory they set up in Newark in 1872 and some of their original
machines are still in use. But this protean plastic takes innumerable forms and almost as many
names. Each factory has its own secrets and lays claim to peculiar merits. The fundamental
product itself is not patented, so trade names are copyrighted to protect the product. I have
already mentioned three, "parkesine," "xylonite" and "celluloid," and I may add, without exhausting
the list of species belonging to this genus, "viscoloid," "lithoxyl," "fiberloid," "coraline,"
"eburite," "pulveroid," "ivorine," "pergamoid," "duroid," "ivortus," "crystalloid," "transparene,"
"litnoid," "petroid," "pasbosene," "cellonite" and "pyralin."

Celluloid can be given any color or colors by mixing in aniline dyes or metallic pigments.
The color may be confined to the surface or to the interior or pervade the whole. If the nitrated
tissue paper is bleached the celluloid is transparent or colorless. In that case it is necessary
to add an antacid such as urea to prevent its getting yellow or opaque. To make it opaque and
less inflammable oxides or chlorides of zinc, aluminum, magnesium, etc., are mixed in.

Without going into the question of their variations and relative merits we may consider the
advantages of the pyroxylin plastics in general. Here we have a new substance, the product
of the creative genius of man, and therefore adaptable to his needs. It is hard but light,
tough but elastic, easily made and tolerably cheap. Heated to the boiling point of water it
becomes soft and flexible. It can be turned, carved, ground, polished, bent, pressed, stamped,
molded or blown. To make a block of any desired size simply pile up the sheets and put them
in a hot press. To get sheets of any desired thickness, simply shave them off the block. To
make a tube of any desired size, shape or thickness squirt out the mixture through a ring-shaped
hole or roll the sheets around a hot bar. Cut the tube into sections and you have rings to
be shaped and stamped into box bodies or napkin rings. Print words or pictures on a celluloid
sheet, put a thin transparent sheet over it and weld them together, then you have something
like the horn book of our ancestors, but better.

Nowadays such things as celluloid and pyralin can be sold under their own name, but in the
early days the artificial plastics, like every new thing, had to resort to camouflage, a very
humiliating expedient since in some cases they were better than the material they were forced
to imitate. Tortoise shell, for instance, cracks, splits and twists, but a "tortoise shell"
comb of celluloid looks as well and lasts better. Horn articles are limited to size of the
ceratinous appendages that can be borne on the animal's head, but an imitation of horn can
be made of any thickness by wrapping celluloid sheets about a cone. Ivory, which also has a
laminated structure, may be imitated by rolling together alternate white opaque and colorless
translucent sheets. Some of the sheets are wrinkled in order to produce the knots and irregularities
of the grain of natural ivory. Man's chief difficulty in all such work is to imitate the imperfections
of nature. His whites are too white, his surfaces are too smooth, his shapes are too regular,
his products are too pure.

The precious red coral of the Mediterranean can be perfectly imitated by taking a cast of a
coral branch and filling in the mold with celluloid of the same color and hardness. The clear
luster of amber, the dead black of ebony, the cloudiness of onyx, the opalescence of alabaster,
the glow of carnelian--once confined to the selfish enjoyment of the rich--are now within the
reach of every one, thanks to this chameleon material. Mosaics may be multiplied indefinitely
by laying together sheets and sticks of celluloid, suitably cut and colored to make up the
picture, fusing the mass, and then shaving off thin layers from the end. That chef d'oeuvre
of the Venetian glass makers, the Battle of Isus, from the House of the Faun in Pompeii, can
be reproduced as fast as the machine can shave them off the block. And the tesserae do not
fall out like those you bought on the Rialto.

The process thus does for mosaics, ivory and coral what printing does for pictures. It is a
mechanical multiplier and only by such means can we ever attain to a state of democratic luxury.
The product, in cases where the imitation is accurate, is equally valuable except to those
who delight in thinking that coral insects, Italian craftsmen and elephants have been laboring
for years to put a trinket into their hands. The Lord may be trusted to deal with such selfish
souls according to their deserts.

But it is very low praise for a synthetic product that it can pass itself off, more or less
acceptably, as a natural product. If that is all we could do without it. It must be an improvement
in some respects on anything to be found in nature or it does not represent a real advance.
So celluloid and its congeners are not confined to the shapes of shell and coral and crystal,
or to the grain of ivory and wood and horn, the colors of amber and amethyst and lapis lazuli,
but can be given forms and textures and tints that were never known before 1869.

Let me see now, have I mentioned all the uses of celluloid? Oh, no, there are handles for canes,
umbrellas, mirrors and brushes, knives, whistles, toys, blown animals, card cases, chains,
charms, brooches, badges, bracelets, rings, book bindings, hairpins, campaign buttons, cuff
and collar buttons, cuffs, collars and dickies, tags, cups, knobs, paper cutters, picture frames,
chessmen, pool balls, ping pong balls, piano keys, dental plates, masks for disfigured faces,
penholders, eyeglass frames, goggles, playing cards--and you can carry on the list as far as
you like.

Celluloid has its disadvantages. You may mold, you may color the stuff as you will, the scent
of the camphor will cling around it still. This is not usually objectionable except where the
celluloid is trying to pass itself off for something else, in which case it deserves no sympathy.
It is attacked and dissolved by hot acids and alkalies. It softens up when heated, which is
handy in shaping it though not so desirable afterward. But the worst of its failings is its
combustibility. It is not explosive, but it takes fire from a flame and burns furiously with
clouds of black smoke.

But celluloid is only one of many plastic substances that have been introduced to the present
generation. A new and important group of them is now being opened up, the so-called "condensation
products." If you will take down any old volume of chemical research you will find occasionally
words to this effect: "The reaction resulted in nothing but an insoluble resin which was not
further investigated." Such a passage would be marked with a tear if chemists were given to
crying over their failures. For it is the epitaph of a buried hope. It likely meant the loss
of months of labor. The reason the chemist did not do anything further with the gummy stuff
that stuck up his test tube was because he did not know what to do with it. It could not be
dissolved, it could not be crystallized, it could not be distilled, therefore it could not
be purified, analyzed and identified.

What had happened was in most cases this. The molecule of the compound that the chemist was
trying to make had combined with others of its kind to form a molecule too big to be managed
by such means. Financiers call the process a "merger." Chemists call it "polymerization." The
resin was a molecular trust, indissoluble, uncontrollable and contaminating everything it touched.

But chemists--like governments--have learned wisdom in recent years. They have not yet discovered
in all cases how to undo the process of polymerization, or, if you prefer the financial phrase,
how to unscramble the eggs. But they have found that these molecular mergers are very useful
things in their way. For instance there is a liquid known as isoprene (C{5}H{8}). This on heating
or standing turns into a gum, that is nothing less than rubber, which is some multiple of C{5}H{8}.

For another instance there is formaldehyde, an acrid smelling gas, used as a disinfectant.
This has the simplest possible formula for a carbohydrate, CH{2}O. But in the leaf of a plant
this molecule multiplies itself by six and turns into a sweet solid glucose (C{6}H{12}O{6}),
or with the loss of water into starch (C{6}H{10}O{5}) or cellulose (C{6}H{10}O{5}).

But formaldehyde is so insatiate that it not only combines with itself but seizes upon other
substances, particularly those having an acquisitive nature like its own. Such a substance
is carbolic acid (phenol) which, as we all know, is used as a disinfectant like formaldehyde
because it, too, has the power of attacking decomposable organic matter. Now Prof. Adolf von
Baeyer discovered in 1872 that when phenol and formaldehyde were brought into contact they
seized upon one another and formed a combine of unusual tenacity, that is, a resin. But as
I have said, chemists in those days were shy of resins. Kleeberg in 1891 tried to make something
out of it and W.H. Story in 1895 went so far as to name the product "resinite," but nothing
came of it until 1909 when L.H. Baekeland undertook a serious and systematic study of this
reaction in New York. Baekeland was a Belgian chemist, born at Ghent in 1863 and professor
at Bruges. While a student at Ghent he took up photography as a hobby and began to work on
the problem of doing away with the dark-room by producing a printing paper that could be developed
under ordinary light. When he came over to America in 1889 he brought his idea with him and
four years later turned out "Velox," with which doubtless the reader is familiar. Velox was
never patented because, as Dr. Baekeland explained in his speech of acceptance of the Perkin
medal from the chemists of America, lawsuits are too expensive. Manufacturers seem to be coming
generally to the opinion that a synthetic name copyrighted as a trademark affords better protection
than a patent.

Later Dr. Baekeland turned his attention to the phenol condensation products, working gradually
up from test tubes to ton vats according to his motto: "Make your mistakes on a small scale
and your profits on a large scale." He found that when equal weights of phenol and formaldehyde
were mixed and warmed in the presence of an alkaline catalytic agent the solution separated
into two layers, the upper aqueous and the lower a resinous precipitate. This resin was soft,
viscous and soluble in alcohol or acetone. But if it was heated under pressure it changed into
another and a new kind of resin that was hard, inelastic, unplastic, infusible and insoluble.
The chemical name of this product is "polymerized oxybenzyl methylene glycol anhydride," but
nobody calls it that, not even chemists. It is called "Bakelite" after its inventor.

The two stages in its preparation are convenient in many ways. For instance, porous wood may
be soaked in the soft resin and then by heat and pressure it is changed to the bakelite form
and the wood comes out with a hard finish that may be given the brilliant polish of Japanese
lacquer. Paper, cardboard, cloth, wood pulp, sawdust, asbestos and the like may be impregnated
with the resin, producing tough and hard material suitable for various purposes. Brass work
painted with it and then baked at 300° F. acquires a lacquered surface that is unaffected by
soap. Forced in powder or sheet form into molds under a pressure of 1200 to 2000 pounds to
the square inch it takes the most delicate impressions. Billiard balls of bakelite are claimed
to be better than ivory because, having no grain, they do not swell unequally with heat and
humidity and so lose their sphericity. Pipestems and beads of bakelite have the clear brilliancy
of amber and greater strength. Fountain pens made of it are transparent so you can see how
much ink you have left. A new and enlarging field for bakelite and allied products is the making
of noiseless gears for automobiles and other machinery, also of air-plane propellers.

Celluloid is more plastic and elastic than bakelite. It is therefore more easily worked in
sheets and small objects. Celluloid can be made perfectly transparent and colorless while bakelite
is confined to the range between a clear amber and an opaque brown or black. On the other hand
bakelite has the advantage in being tasteless, odorless, inert, insoluble and non-inflammable.
This last quality and its high electrical resistance give bakelite its chief field of usefulness.
Electricity was discovered by the Greeks, who found that amber (electron) when rubbed would
pick up straws. This means simply that amber, like all such resinous substances, natural or
artificial, is a non-conductor or di-electric and does not carry off and scatter the electricity
collected on the surface by the friction. Bakelite is used in its liquid form for impregnating
coils to keep the wires from shortcircuiting and in its solid form for commutators, magnetos,
switch blocks, distributors, and all sorts of electrical apparatus for automobiles, telephones,
wireless telegraphy, electric lighting, etc.

Bakelite, however, is only one of an indefinite number of such condensation products. As Baeyer
said long ago: "It seems that all the aldehydes will, under suitable circumstances, unite with
the aromatic hydrocarbons to form resins." So instead of phenol, other coal tar products such
as cresol, naphthol or benzene itself may be used. The carbon links (-CH{2}-, methylene) necessary
to hook these carbon rings together may be obtained from other substances than the aldehydes,
for instance from the amines, or ammonia derivatives. Three chemists, L.V. Kedman, A.J. Weith
and F.P. Broek, working in 1910 on the Industrial Fellowships of the late Robert Kennedy Duncan
at the University of Kansas, developed a process using formin instead of formaldehyde. Formin--or,
if you insist upon its full name, hexa-methylene-tetramine--is a sugar-like substance with
a fish-like smell. This mixed with crystallized carbolic acid and slightly warmed melts to
a golden liquid that sets on pouring into molds. It is still plastic and can be bent into any
desired shape, but on further heating it becomes hard without the need of pressure. Ammonia
is given off in this process instead of water which is the by-product in the case of formaldehyde.
The product is similar to bakelite, exactly how similar is a question that the courts will
have to decide. The inventors threatened to call it Phenyl-endeka-saligeno-saligenin, but,
rightly fearing that this would interfere with its salability, they have named it "redmanol."

A phenolic condensation product closely related to bakelite and redmanol is condensite, the
invention of Jonas Walter Aylesworth. Aylesworth was trained in what he referred to as "the
greatest university of the world, the Edison laboratory." He entered this university at the
age of nineteen at a salary of $3 a week, but Edison soon found that he had in his new boy
an assistant who could stand being shut up in the laboratory working day and night as long
as he could. After nine years of close association with Edison he set up a little laboratory
in his own back yard to work out new plastics. He found that by acting on naphthalene--the
moth-ball stuff--with chlorine he got a series of useful products called "halowaxes." The lower
chlorinated products are oils, which may be used for impregnating paper or soft wood, making
it non-inflammable and impregnable to water. If four atoms of chlorine enter the naphthalene
molecule the product is a hard wax that rings like a metal.

Condensite is anhydrous and infusible, and like its rivals finds its chief employment in the
insulation parts of electrical apparatus. The records of the Edison phonograph are made of
it. So are the buttons of our blue-jackets. The Government at the outbreak of the war ordered
40,000 goggles in condensite frames to protect the eyes of our gunners from the glare and acid
fumes.

The various synthetics played an important part in the war. According to an ancient military
pun the endurance of soldiers depends upon the strength of their soles. The new compound rubber
soles were found useful in our army and the Germans attribute their success in making a little
leather go a long way during the late war to the use of a new synthetic tanning material known
as "neradol." There are various forms of this. Some are phenolic condensation products of formaldehyde
like those we have been considering, but some use coal-tar compounds having no phenol groups,
such as naphthalene sulfonic acid. These are now being made in England under such names as
"paradol," "cresyntan" and "syntan." They have the advantage of the natural tannins such as
bark in that they are of known strength and can be varied to suit.

This very grasping compound, formaldehyde, will attack almost anything, even molecules many
times its size. Gelatinous and albuminous substances of all sorts are solidified by it. Glue,
skimmed milk, blood, eggs, yeast, brewer's slops, may by this magic agent be rescued from waste
and reappear in our buttons, hairpins, roofing, phonographs, shoes or shoe-polish. The French
have made great use of casein hardened by formaldehyde into what is known as "galalith" (i.e.,
milkstone). This is harder than celluloid and non-inflammable, but has the disadvantages of
being more brittle and of absorbing moisture. A mixture of casein and celluloid has something
of the merits of both.

The Japanese, as we should expect, are using the juice of the soy bean, familiar as a condiment
to all who patronize chop-sueys or use Worcestershire sauce. The soy glucine coagulated by
formalin gives a plastic said to be better and cheaper than celluloid. Its inventor, S. Sato,
of Sendai University, has named it, according to American precedent, "Satolite," and has organized
a million-dollar Satolite Company at Mukojima.

The algin extracted from the Pacific kelp can be used as a rubber surrogate for water-proofing
cloth. When combined with heavier alkaline bases it forms a tough and elastic substance that
can be rolled into transparent sheets like celluloid or turned into buttons and knife handles.

In Australia when the war shut off the supply of tin the Government commission appointed to
devise means of preserving fruits recommended the use of cardboard containers varnished with
"magramite." This is a name the Australians coined for synthetic resin made from phenol and
formaldehyde like bakelite. Magramite dissolved in alcohol is painted on the cardboard cans
and when these are stoved the coating becomes insoluble.

Tarasoff has made a series of condensation products from phenol and formaldehyde with the addition
of sulfonated oils. These are formed by the action of sulfuric acid on coconut, castor, cottonseed
or mineral oils. The products of this combination are white plastics, opaque, insoluble and
infusible.

Since I am here chiefly concerned with "Creative Chemistry," that is, with the art of making
substances not found in nature, I have not spoken of shellac, asphaltum, rosin, ozocerite and
the innumerable gums, resins and waxes, animal, mineral and vegetable, that are used either
by themselves or in combination with the synthetics. What particular "dope" or "mud" is used
to coat a canvas or form a telephone receiver is often hard to find out. The manufacturer finds
secrecy safer than the patent office and the chemist of a rival establishment is apt to be
baffled in his attempt to analyze and imitate. But we of the outside world are not concerned
with this, though we are interested in the manifold applications of these new materials.

There seems to be no limit to these compounds and every week the journals report new processes
and patents. But we must not allow the new ones to crowd out the remembrance of the oldest
and most famous of the synthetic plasters, hard rubber, to which a separate chapter must be
devoted.

VIII

THE RACE FOR RUBBER

There is one law that regulates all animate and inanimate things. It is formulated in various
ways, for instance:

Running down a hill is easy. In Latin it reads, facilis descensus Averni. Herbert Spencer calls
it the dissolution of definite coherent heterogeneity into indefinite incoherent homogeneity.
Mother Goose expresses it in the fable of Humpty Dumpty, and the business man extracts the
moral as, "You can't unscramble an egg." The theologian calls it the dogma of natural depravity.
The physicist calls it the second law of thermodynamics. Clausius formulates it as "The entropy
of the world tends toward a maximum." It is easier to smash up than to build up. Children find
that this is true of their toys; the Bolsheviki have found that it is true of a civilization.
So, too, the chemist knows analysis is easier than synthesis and that creative chemistry is
the highest branch of his art.

This explains why chemists discovered how to take rubber apart over sixty years before they
could find out how to put it together. The first is easy. Just put some raw rubber into a retort
and heat it. If you can stand the odor you will observe the caoutchouc decomposing and a benzine-like
liquid distilling over. This is called "isoprene." Any Freshman chemist could write the reaction
for this operation. It is simply

  C{10}H{16}   -->  2C{5}H{8}
  caoutchouc           isoprene

That is, one molecule of the gum splits up into two molecules of the liquid. It is just as
easy to write the reaction in the reverse directions, as 2 isoprene--> 1 caoutchouc, but nobody
could make it go in that direction. Yet it could be done. It had been done. But the man who
did it did not know how he did it and could not do it again. Professor Tilden in May, 1892,
read a paper before the Birmingham Philosophical Society in which he said:

     I was surprised a few weeks ago at finding the contents of the
     bottles containing isoprene from turpentine entirely changed in
     appearance. In place of a limpid, colorless liquid the bottles
     contained a dense syrup in which were floating several large
     masses of a yellowish color. Upon examination this turned out
     to be India rubber.

But neither Professor Tilden nor any one else could repeat this accidental metamorphosis. It
was tantalizing, for the world was willing to pay $2,000,000,000 a year for rubber and the
forests of the Amazon and Congo were failing to meet the demand. A large share of these millions
would have gone to any chemist who could find out how to make synthetic rubber and make it
cheaply enough. With such a reward of fame and fortune the competition among chemists was intense.
It took the form of an international contest in which England and Germany were neck and neck.

The English, who had been beaten by the Germans in the dye business where they had the start,
were determined not to lose in this. Prof. W.H. Perkin, of Manchester University, was one of
the most eager, for he was inspired by a personal grudge against the Germans as well as by
patriotism and scientific zeal. It was his father who had, fifty years before, discovered mauve,
the first of the anilin dyes, but England could not hold the business and its rich rewards
went over to Germany. So in 1909 a corps of chemists set to work under Professor Perkin in
the Manchester laboratories to solve the problem of synthetic rubber. What reagent could be
found that would reverse the reaction and convert the liquid isoprene into the solid rubber?
It was discovered, by accident, we may say, but it should be understood that such advantageous
accidents happen only to those who are working for them and know how to utilize them. In July,
1910, Dr. Matthews, who had charge of the research, set some isoprene to drying over metallic
sodium, a common laboratory method of freeing a liquid from the last traces of water. In September
he found that the flask was filled with a solid mass of real rubber instead of the volatile
colorless liquid he had put into it.

Twenty years before the discovery would have been useless, for sodium was then a rare and costly
metal, a little of it in a sealed glass tube being passed around the chemistry class once a
year as a curiosity, or a tiny bit cut off and dropped in water to see what a fuss it made.
But nowadays metallic sodium is cheaply produced by the aid of electricity. The difficulty
lay rather in the cost of the raw material, isoprene. In industrial chemistry it is not sufficient
that a thing can be made; it must be made to pay. Isoprene could be obtained from turpentine,
but this was too expensive and limited in supply. It would merely mean the destruction of pine
forests instead of rubber forests. Starch was finally decided upon as the best material, since
this can be obtained for about a cent a pound from potatoes, corn and many other sources. Here,
however, the chemist came to the end of his rope and had to call the bacteriologist to his
aid. The splitting of the starch molecule is too big a job for man; only the lower organisms,
the yeast plant, for example, know enough to do that. Owing perhaps to the entente cordiale
a French biologist was called into the combination, Professor Fernbach, of the Pasteur Institute,
and after eighteen months' hard work he discovered a process of fermentation by which a large
amount of fusel oil can be obtained from any starchy stuff. Hitherto the aim in fermentation
and distillation had been to obtain as small a proportion of fusel as possible, for fusel oil
is a mixture of the heavier alcohols, all of them more poisonous and malodorous than common
alcohol. But here, as has often happened in the history of industrial chemistry, the by-product
turned out to be more valuable than the product. From fusel oil by the use of chlorine isoprene
can be prepared, so the chain was complete.

But meanwhile the Germans had been making equal progress. In 1905 Prof. Karl Harries, of Berlin,
found out the name of the caoutchouc molecule. This discovery was to the chemists what the
architect's plan of a house is to the builder. They knew then what they were trying to construct
and could go about their task intelligently.

Mark Twain said that he could understand something about how astronomers could measure the
distance of the planets, calculate their weights and so forth, but he never could see how they
could find out their names even with the largest telescopes. This is a joke in astronomy but
it is not in chemistry. For when the chemist finds out the structure of a compound he gives
it a name which means that. The stuff came to be called "caoutchouc," because that was the
way the Spaniards of Columbus's time caught the Indian word "cahuchu." When Dr. Priestley called
it "India rubber" he told merely where it came from and what it was good for. But when Harries
named it "1-5-dimethyl-cyclo-octadien-1-5" any chemist could draw a picture of it and give
a guess as to how it could be made. Even a person without any knowledge of chemistry can get
the main point of it by merely looking at this diagram:

     C    C              C---C
     ||   ||             ||  |
  C--C    C           C--C   C
     |    |     -->      |   |
     C    C--C           C   C--C
     ||   ||             |   ||
     C    C              C---C

I have dropped the 16 H's or hydrogen atoms of the formula for simplicity's sake. They simply
hook on wherever they can. You will see that the isoprene consists of a chain of four carbon
atoms (represented by the C's) with an extra carbon on the side. In the transformation of this
colorless liquid into soft rubber two of the double linkages break and so permit the two chains
of 4 C's to unite to form one ring of eight. If you have ever played ring-around-a-rosy you
will get the idea. In Chapter IV I explained that the anilin dyes are built up upon the benzene
ring of six carbon atoms. The rubber ring consists of eight at least and probably more. Any
substance containing that peculiar carbon chain with two double links C=C-C=C can double up--polymerize,
the chemist calls it--into a rubber-like substance. So we may have many kinds of rubber, some
of which may prove to be more useful than that which happens to be found in nature.

With the structural formula of Harries as a clue chemists all over the world plunged into the
problem with renewed hope. The famous Bayer dye works at Elberfeld took it up and there in
August, 1909, Dr. Fritz Hofmann worked out a process for the converting of pure isoprene into
rubber by heat. Then in 1910 Harries happened upon the same sodium reaction as Matthews, but
when he came to get it patented he found that the Englishman had beaten him to the patent office
by a few weeks.

This Anglo-German rivalry came to a dramatic climax in 1912 at the great hall of the College
of the City of New York when Dr. Carl Duisberg, of the Elberfeld factory, delivered an address
on the latest achievements of the chemical industry before the Eighth--and the last for a long
time--International Congress of Applied Chemistry. Duisberg insisted upon talking in German,
although more of his auditors would have understood him in English. He laid full emphasis upon
German achievements and cast doubt upon the claim of "the Englishman Tilden" to have prepared
artificial rubber in the eighties. Perkin, of Manchester, confronted him with his new process
for making rubber from potatoes, but Duisberg countered by proudly displaying two automobile
tires made of synthetic rubber with which he had made a thousand-mile run.

The intense antagonism between the British and German chemists at this congress was felt by
all present, but we did not foresee that in two years from that date they would be engaged
in manufacturing poison gas to fire at one another. It was, however, realized that more was
at stake than personal reputation and national prestige. Under pressure of the new demand for
automobiles the price of rubber jumped from $1.25 to $3 a pound in 1910, and millions had been
invested in plantations. If Professor Perkin was right when he told the congress that by his
process rubber could be made for less than 25 cents a pound it meant that these plantations
would go the way of the indigo plantations when the Germans succeeded in making artificial
indigo. If Dr. Duisberg was right when he told the congress that synthetic rubber would "certainly
appear on the market in a very short time," it meant that Germany in war or peace would become
independent of Brazil in the matter of rubber as she had become independent of Chile in the
matter of nitrates.

As it turned out both scientists were too sanguine. Synthetic rubber has not proved capable
of displacing natural rubber by underbidding it nor even of replacing natural rubber when this
is shut out. When Germany was blockaded and the success of her armies depended on rubber, price
was no object. Three Danish sailors who were caught by United States officials trying to smuggle
dental rubber into Germany confessed that they had been selling it there for gas masks at $73
a pound. The German gas masks in the latter part of the war were made without rubber and were
frail and leaky. They could not have withstood the new gases which American chemists were preparing
on an unprecedented scale. Every scrap of old rubber in Germany was saved and worked over and
over and diluted with fillers and surrogates to the limit of elasticity. Spring tires were
substituted for pneumatics. So it is evident that the supply of synthetic rubber could not
have been adequate or satisfactory. Neither, on the other hand, have the British made a success
of the Perkin process, although they spent $200,000 on it in the first two years. But, of course,
there was not the same necessity for it as in the case of Germany, for England had practically
a monopoly of the world's supply of natural rubber either through owning plantations or controlling
shipping. If rubber could not be manufactured profitably in Germany when the demand was imperative
and price no consideration it can hardly be expected to compete with the natural under peace
conditions.

The problem of synthetic rubber has then been solved scientifically but not industrially. It
can be made but cannot be made to pay. The difficulty is to find a cheap enough material to
start with. We can make rubber out of potatoes--but potatoes have other uses. It would require
more land and more valuable land to raise the potatoes than to raise the rubber. We can get
isoprene by the distillation of turpentine--but why not bleed a rubber tree as well as a pine
tree? Turpentine is neither cheap nor abundant enough. Any kind of wood, sawdust for instance,
can be utilized by converting the cellulose over into sugar and fermenting this to alcohol,
but the process is not likely to prove profitable. Petroleum when cracked up to make gasoline
gives isoprene or other double-bond compounds that go over into some form of rubber.

But the most interesting and most promising of all is the complete inorganic synthesis that
dispenses with the aid of vegetation and starts with coal and lime. These heated together in
the electric furnace form calcium carbide and this, as every automobilist knows, gives acetylene
by contact with water. From this gas isoprene can be made and the isoprene converted into rubber
by sodium, or acid or alkali or simple heating. Acetone, which is also made from acetylene,
can be converted directly into rubber by fuming sulfuric acid. This seems to have been the
process chiefly used by the Germans during the war. Several carbide factories were devoted
to it. But the intermediate and by-products of the process, such as alcohol, acetic acid and
acetone, were in as much demand for war purposes as rubber. The Germans made some rubber from
pitch imported from Sweden. They also found a useful substitute in aluminum naphthenate made
from Baku petroleum, for it is elastic and plastic and can be vulcanized.

So although rubber can be made in many different ways it is not profitable to make it in any
of them. We have to rely still upon the natural product, but we can greatly improve upon the
way nature produces it. When the call came for more rubber for the electrical and automobile
industries the first attempt to increase the supply was to put pressure upon the natives to
bring in more of the latex. As a consequence the trees were bled to death and sometimes also
the natives. The Belgian atrocities in the Congo shocked the civilized world and at Putumayo
on the upper Amazon the same cause produced the same horrible effects. But no matter what cruelty
was practiced the tropical forests could not be made to yield a sufficient increase, so the
cultivation of the rubber was begun by far-sighted men in Dutch Java, Sumatra and Borneo and
in British Malaya and Ceylon.

Brazil, feeling secure in the possession of a natural monopoly, made no effort to compete with
these parvenus. It cost about as much to gather rubber from the Amazon forests as it did to
raise it on a Malay plantation, that is, 25 cents a pound. The Brazilian Government clapped
on another 25 cents export duty and spent the money lavishly. In 1911 the treasury of Para
took in $2,000,000 from the rubber tax and a good share of the money was spent on a magnificent
new theater at Manaos--not on setting out rubber trees. The result of this rivalry between
the collector and the cultivator is shown by the fact that in the decade 1907-1917 the world's
output of plantation rubber increased from 1000 to 204,000 tons, while the output of wild rubber
decreased from 68,000 to 53,000. Besides this the plantation rubber is a cleaner and more even
product, carefully coagulated by acetic acid instead of being smoked over a forest fire. It
comes in pale yellow sheets instead of big black balls loaded with the dirt or sticks and stones
that the honest Indian sometimes adds to make a bigger lump. What's better, the man who milks
the rubber trees on a plantation may live at home where he can be decently looked after. The
agriculturist and the chemist may do what the philanthropist and statesman could not accomplish:
put an end to the cruelties involved in the international struggle for "black gold."

The United States uses three-fourths of the world's rubber output and grows none of it. What
is the use of tropical possessions if we do not make use of them? The Philippines could grow
all our rubber and keep a $300,000,000 business under our flag. Santo Domingo, where rubber
was first discovered, is now under our supervision and could be enriched by the industry. The
Guianas, where the rubber tree was first studied, might be purchased. It is chiefly for lack
of a definite colonial policy that our rubber industry, by far the largest in the world, has
to be dependent upon foreign sources for all its raw materials. Because the Philippines are
likely to be cast off at any moment, American manufacturers are placing their plantations in
the Dutch or British possessions. The Goodyear Company has secured a concession of 20,000 acres
near Medan in Dutch Sumatra.

While the United States is planning to relinquish its Pacific possessions the British have
more than doubled their holdings in New Guinea by the acquisition of Kaiser Wilhelm's Land,
good rubber country. The British Malay States in 1917 exported over $118,000,000 worth of plantation-grown
rubber and could have sold more if shipping had not been short and production restricted. Fully
90 per cent. of the cultivated rubber is now grown in British colonies or on British plantations
in the Dutch East Indies. To protect this monopoly an act has been passed preventing foreigners
from buying more land in the Malay Peninsula. The Japanese have acquired there 50,000 acres,
on which they are growing more than a million dollars' worth of rubber a year. The British
Tropical Life says of the American invasion: "As America is so extremely wealthy Uncle Sam
can well afford to continue to buy our rubber as he has been doing instead of coming in to
produce rubber to reduce his competition as a buyer in the world's market." The Malaya estates
calculate to pay a dividend of 20 per cent. on the investment with rubber selling at 30 cents
a pound and every two cents additional on the price brings a further 3-1/2 per cent. dividend.
The output is restricted by the Rubber Growers' Association so as to keep the price up to 50-70
cents. When the plantations first came into bearing in 1910 rubber was bringing nearly $3 a
pound, and since it can be produced at less than 30 cents a pound we can imagine the profits
of the early birds.

The fact that the world's rubber trade was in the control of Great Britain caused America great
anxiety and financial loss in the early part of the war when the British Government, suspecting--not
without reason--that some American rubber goods were getting into Germany through neutral nations,
suddenly shut off our supply. This threatened to kill the fourth largest of our industries
and it was only by the submission of American rubber dealers to the closest supervision and
restriction by the British authorities that they were allowed to continue their business. Sir
Francis Hopwood, in laying down these regulations, gave emphatic warning "that in case any
manufacturer, importer or dealer came under suspicion his permits should be immediately revoked.
Reinstatement will be slow and difficult. The British Government will cancel first and investigate
afterward." Of course the British had a right to say under what conditions they should sell
their rubber and we cannot blame them for taking such precautions to prevent its getting to
their enemies, but it placed the United States in a humiliating position and if we had not
been in sympathy with their side it would have aroused more resentment than it did. But it
made evident the desirability of having at least part of our supply under our own control and,
if possible, within our own country. Rubber is not rare in nature, for it is contained in almost
every milky juice. Every country boy knows that he can get a self-feeding mucilage brush by
cutting off a milkweed stalk. The only native source so far utilized is the guayule, which
grows wild on the deserts of the Mexican and the American border. The plant was discovered
in 1852 by Dr. J.M. Bigelow near Escondido Creek, Texas. Professor Asa Gray described it and
named it Parthenium argentatum, or the silver Pallas. When chopped up and macerated guayule
gives a satisfactory quality of caoutchouc in profitable amounts. In 1911 seven thousand tons
of guayule were imported from Mexico; in 1917 only seventeen hundred tons. Why this falling
off? Because the eager exploiters had killed the goose that laid the golden egg, or in plain
language, pulled up the plant by the roots. Now guayule is being cultivated and is reaped instead
of being uprooted. Experiments at the Tucson laboratory have recently removed the difficulty
of getting the seed to germinate under cultivation. This seems the most promising of the home-grown
plants and, until artificial rubber can be made profitable, gives us the only chance of being
in part independent of oversea supply.

There are various other gums found in nature that can for some purposes be substituted for
caoutchouc. Gutta percha, for instance, is pliable and tough though not very elastic. It becomes
plastic by heat so it can be molded, but unlike rubber it cannot be hardened by heating with
sulfur. A lump of gutta percha was brought from Java in 1766 and placed in a British museum,
where it lay for nearly a hundred years before it occurred to anybody to do anything with it
except to look at it. But a German electrician, Siemens, discovered in 1847 that gutta percha
was valuable for insulating telegraph lines and it found extensive employment in submarine
cables as well as for golf balls, and the like.

Balata, which is found in the forests of the Guianas, is between gutta percha and rubber, not
so good for insulation but useful for shoe soles and machine belts. The bark of the tree is
so thick that the latex does not run off like caoutchouc when the bark is cut. So the bark
has to be cut off and squeezed in hand presses. Formerly this meant cutting down the tree,
but now alternate strips of the bark are cut off and squeezed so the tree continues to live.

When Columbus discovered Santo Domingo he found the natives playing with balls made from the
gum of the caoutchouc tree. The soldiers of Pizarro, when they conquered Inca-Land, adopted
the Peruvian custom of smearing caoutchouc over their coats to keep out the rain. A French
scientist, M. de la Condamine, who went to South America to measure the earth, came back in
1745 with some specimens of caoutchouc from Para as well as quinine from Peru. The vessel on
which he returned, the brig Minerva, had a narrow escape from capture by an English cruiser,
for Great Britain was jealous of any trespassing on her American sphere of influence. The Old
World need not have waited for the discovery of the New, for the rubber tree grows wild in
Annam as well as Brazil, but none of the Asiatics seems to have discovered any of the many
uses of the juice that exudes from breaks in the bark.

The first practical use that was made of it gave it the name that has stuck to it in English
ever since. Magellan announced in 1772 that it was good to remove pencil marks. A lump of it
was sent over from France to Priestley, the clergyman chemist who discovered oxygen and was
mobbed out of Manchester for being a republican and took refuge in Pennsylvania. He cut the
lump into little cubes and gave them to his friends to eradicate their mistakes in writing
or figuring. Then they asked him what the queer things were and he said that they were "India
rubbers."

The Peruvian natives had used caoutchouc for water-proof clothing, shoes, bottles and syringes,
but Europe was slow to take it up, for the stuff was too sticky and smelled too bad in hot
weather to become fashionable in fastidious circles. In 1825 Mackintosh made his name immortal
by putting a layer of rubber between two cloths.

A German chemist, Ludersdorf, discovered in 1832 that the gum could be hardened by treating
it with sulfur dissolved in turpentine. But it was left to a Yankee inventor, Charles Goodyear,
of Connecticut, to work out a practical solution of the problem. A friend of his, Hayward,
told him that it had been revealed to him in a dream that sulfur would harden rubber, but unfortunately
the angel or defunct chemist who inspired the vision failed to reveal the details of the process.
So Hayward sold out his dream to Goodyear, who spent all his own money and all he could borrow
from his friends trying to convert it into a reality. He worked for ten years on the problem
before the "lucky accident" came to him. One day in 1839 he happened to drop on the hot stove
of the kitchen that he used as a laboratory a mixture of caoutchouc and sulfur. To his surprise
he saw the two substances fuse together into something new. Instead of the soft, tacky gum
and the yellow, brittle brimstone he had the tough, stable, elastic solid that has done so
much since to make our footing and wheeling safe, swift and noiseless. The gumshoes or galoshes
that he was then enabled to make still go by the name of "rubbers" in this country, although
we do not use them for pencil erasers.

Goodyear found that he could vary this "vulcanized rubber" at will. By adding a little more
sulfur he got a hard substance which, however, could be softened by heat so as to be molded
into any form wanted. Out of this "hard rubber" "vulcanite" or "ebonite" were made combs, hairpins,
penholders and the like, and it has not yet been superseded for some purposes by any of its
recent rivals, the synthetic resins.

The new form of rubber made by the Germans, methyl rubber, is said to be a superior substitute
for the hard variety but not satisfactory for the soft. The electrical resistance of the synthetic
product is 20 per cent, higher than the natural, so it is excellent for insulation, but it
is inferior in elasticity. In the latter part of the war the methyl rubber was manufactured
at the rate of 165 tons a month.

The first pneumatic tires, known then as "patent aerial wheels," were invented by Robert William
Thomson of London in 1846. On the following year a carriage equipped with them was seen in
the streets of New York City. But the pneumatic tire did not come into use until after 1888,
when an Irish horse-doctor, John Boyd Dunlop, of Belfast, tied a rubber tube around the wheels
of his little son's velocipede. Within seven years after that a $25,000,000 corporation was
manufacturing Dunlop tires. Later America took the lead in this business. In 1913 the United
States exported $3,000,000 worth of tires and tubes. In 1917 the American exports rose to $13,000,000,
not counting what went to the Allies. The number of pneumatic tires sold in 1917 is estimated
at 18,000,000, which at an average cost of $25 would amount to $450,000,000.

No matter how much synthetic rubber may be manufactured or how many rubber trees are set out
there is no danger of glutting the market, for as the price falls the uses of rubber become
more numerous. One can think of a thousand ways in which rubber could be used if it were only
cheap enough. In the form of pads and springs and tires it would do much to render traffic
noiseless. Even the elevated railroad and the subway might be opened to conversation, and the
city made habitable for mild voiced and gentle folk. It would make one's step sure, noiseless
and springy, whether it was used individualistically as rubber heels or collectivistically
as carpeting and paving. In roofing and siding and paint it would make our buildings warmer
and more durable. It would reduce the cost and permit the extension of electrical appliances
of almost all kinds. In short, there is hardly any other material whose abundance would contribute
more to our comfort and convenience. Noise is an automatic alarm indicating lost motion and
wasted energy. Silence is economy and resiliency is superior to resistance. A gumshoe outlasts
a hobnailed sole and a rubber tube full of air is better than a steel tire.

IX

THE RIVAL SUGARS

The ancient Greeks, being an inquisitive and acquisitive people, were fond of collecting tales
of strange lands. They did not care much whether the stories were true or not so long as they
were interesting. Among the marvels that the Greeks heard from the Far East two of the strangest
were that in India there were plants that bore wool without sheep and reeds that bore honey
without bees. These incredible tales turned out to be true and in the course of time Europe
began to get a little calico from Calicut and a kind of edible gravel that the Arabs who brought
it called "sukkar." But of course only kings and queens could afford to dress in calico and
have sugar prescribed for them when they were sick.

Fortunately, however, in the course of time the Arabs invaded Spain and forced upon the unwilling
inhabitants of Europe such instrumentalities of higher civilization as arithmetic and algebra,
soap and sugar. Later the Spaniards by an act of equally unwarranted and beneficent aggression
carried the sugar cane to the Caribbean, where it thrived amazingly. The West Indies then became
a rival of the East Indies as a treasure-house of tropical wealth and for several centuries
the Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, English, Danes and French fought like wildcats to gain possession
of this little nest of islands and the routes leading thereunto.

The English finally overcame all these enemies, whether they fought her singly or combined.
Great Britain became mistress of the seas and took such Caribbean lands as she wanted. But
in the end her continental foes came out ahead, for they rendered her victory valueless. They
were defeated in geography but they won in chemistry. Canning boasted that "the New World had
been called into existence to redress the balance of the Old." Napoleon might have boasted
that he had called in the sugar beet to balance the sugar cane. France was then, as Germany
was a century later, threatening to dominate the world. England, then as in the Great War,
shut off from the seas the shipping of the aggressive power. France then, like Germany later,
felt most keenly the lack of tropical products, chief among which, then but not in the recent
crisis, was sugar. The cause of this vital change is that in 1747 Marggraf, a Berlin chemist,
discovered that it was possible to extract sugar from beets. There was only a little sugar
in the beet root then, some six per cent., and what he got out was dirty and bitter. One of
his pupils in 1801 set up a beet sugar factory near Breslau under the patronage of the King
of Prussia, but the industry was not a success until Napoleon took it up and in 1810 offered
a prize of a million francs for a practical process. How the French did make fun of him for
this crazy notion! In a comic paper of that day you will find a cartoon of Napoleon in the
nursery beside the cradle of his son and heir, the King of Rome--known to the readers of Rostand
as l'Aiglon. The Emperor is squeezing the juice of a beet into his coffee and the nurse has
put a beet into the mouth of the infant King, saying: "Suck, dear, suck. Your father says it's
sugar."

In like manner did the wits ridicule Franklin for fooling with electricity, Rumford for trying
to improve chimneys, Parmentier for thinking potatoes were fit to eat, and Jefferson for believing
that something might be made of the country west of the Mississippi. In all ages ridicule has
been the chief weapon of conservatism. If you want to know what line human progress will take
in the future read the funny papers of today and see what they are fighting. The satire of
every century from Aristophanes to the latest vaudeville has been directed against those who
are trying to make the world wiser or better, against the teacher and the preacher, the scientist
and the reformer.

In spite of the ridicule showered upon it the despised beet year by year gained in sweetness
of heart. The percentage of sugar rose from six to eighteen and by improved methods of extraction
became finally as pure and palatable as the sugar of the cane. An acre of German beets produces
more sugar than an acre of Louisiana cane. Continental Europe waxed wealthy while the British
West Indies sank into decay. As the beets of Europe became sweeter the population of the islands
became blacker. Before the war England was paying out $125,000,000 for sugar, and more than
two-thirds of this money was going to Germany and Austria-Hungary. Fostered by scientific study,
protected by tariff duties, and stimulated by export bounties, the beet sugar industry became
one of the financial forces of the world. The English at home, especially the marmalade-makers,
at first rejoiced at the idea of getting sugar for less than cost at the expense of her continental
rivals. But the suffering colonies took another view of the situation. In 1888 a conference
of the powers called at London agreed to stop competing by the pernicious practice of export
bounties, but France and the United States refused to enter, so the agreement fell through.
Another conference ten years later likewise failed, but when the parvenu beet sugar ventured
to invade the historic home of the cane the limit of toleration had been reached. The Council
of India put on countervailing duties to protect their homegrown cane from the bounty-fed beet.
This forced the calling of a convention at Brussels in 1903 "to equalize the conditions of
competition between beet sugar and cane sugar of the various countries," at which the powers
agreed to a mutual suppression of bounties. Beet sugar then divided the world's market equally
with cane sugar and the two rivals stayed substantially neck and neck until the Great War came.
This shut out from England the product of Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, northern France
and Russia and took the farmers from their fields. The battle lines of the Central Powers enclosed
the land which used to grow a third of the world's supply of sugar. In 1913 the beet and the
cane each supplied about nine million tons of sugar. In 1917 the output of cane sugar was 11,200,000
and of beet sugar 5,300,000 tons. Consequently the Old World had to draw upon the New. Cuba,
on which the United States used to depend for half its sugar supply, sent over 700,000 tons
of raw sugar to England in 1916. The United States sent as much more refined sugar. The lack
of shipping interfered with our getting sugar from our tropical dependencies, Hawaii, Porto
Rico and the Philippines. The homegrown beets give us only a fifth and the cane of Louisiana
and Texas only a fifteenth of the sugar we need. As a result we were obliged to file a claim
in advance to get a pound of sugar from the corner grocery and then we were apt to be put off
with rock candy, muscovado or honey. Lemon drops proved useful for Russian tea and the "long
sweetening" of our forefathers came again into vogue in the form of various syrups. The United
States was accustomed to consume almost a fifth of all the sugar produced in the world--and
then we could not get it.

The shortage made us realize how dependent we have become upon sugar. Yet it was, as we have
seen, practically unknown to the ancients and only within the present generation has it become
an essential factor in our diet. As soon as the chemist made it possible to produce sugar at
a reasonable price all nations began to buy it in proportion to their means. Americans, as
the wealthiest people in the world, ate the most, ninety pounds a year on the average for every
man, woman and child. In other words we ate our weight of sugar every year. The English consumed
nearly as much as the Americans; the French and Germans about half as much; the Balkan peoples
less than ten pounds per annum; and the African savages none.

Pure white sugar is the first and greatest contribution of chemistry to the world's dietary.
It is unique in being a single definite chemical compound, sucrose, C{12}H{22}O{11}. All natural
nutriments are more or less complex mixtures. Many of them, like wheat or milk or fruit, contain
in various proportions all of the three factors of foods, the fats, the proteids and the carbohydrates,
as well as water and the minerals and other ingredients necessary to life. But sugar is a simple
substance, like water or salt, and like them is incapable of sustaining life alone, although
unlike them it is nutritious. In fact, except the fats there is no more nutritious food than
sugar, pound for pound, for it contains no water and no waste. It is therefore the quickest
and usually the cheapest means of supplying bodily energy. But as may be seen from its formula
as given above it contains only three elements, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, and omits nitrogen
and other elements necessary to the body. An engine requires not only coal but also lubricating
oil, water and bits of steel and brass to keep it in repair. But as a source of the energy
needed in our strenuous life sugar has no equal and only one rival, alcohol. Alcohol is the
offspring of sugar, a degenerate descendant that retains but few of the good qualities of its
sire and has acquired some evil traits of its own. Alcohol, like sugar, may serve to furnish
the energy of a steam engine or a human body. Used as a fuel alcohol has certain advantages,
but used as a food it has the disqualification of deranging the bodily mechanism. Even a little
alcohol will impair the accuracy and speed of thought and action, while a large quantity, as
we all know from observation if not experience, will produce temporary incapacitation.

When man feeds on sugar he splits it up by the aid of air into water and carbon dioxide in
this fashion:

  C{12}H{22}O{11} +  12O{2}   -->   11H{2}O  + 12CO{2}
        cane sugar     oxygen           water      carbon dioxide

When sugar is burned the reaction is just the same.

But when the yeast plant feeds on sugar it carries the process only part way and instead of
water the product is alcohol, a very different thing, so they say who have tried both as beverages.
The yeast or fermentation reaction is this:

  C{12}H{22}O{11} +  H{2}O   -->  4C{2}H{6}O   +  4CO{2}
        cane sugar      water         alcohol       carbon dioxide

Alcohol then is the first product of the decomposition of sugar, a dangerous half-way house.
The twin product, carbon dioxide or carbonic acid, is a gas of slightly sour taste which gives
an attractive tang and effervescence to the beer, wine, cider or champagne. That is to say,
one of these twins is a pestilential fellow and the other is decidedly agreeable. Yet for several
thousand years mankind took to the first and let the second for the most part escape into the
air. But when the chemist appeared on the scene he discovered a way of separating the two and
bottling the harmless one for those who prefer it. An increasing number of people were found
to prefer it, so the American soda-water fountain is gradually driving Demon Rum out of the
civilized world. The brewer nowadays caters to two classes of customers. He bottles up the
beer with the alcohol and a little carbonic acid in it for the saloon and he catches the rest
of the carbonic acid that he used to waste and sells it to the drug stores for soda-water or
uses it to charge some non-alcoholic beer of his own.

This catering to rival trades is not an uncommon thing with the chemist. As we have seen, the
synthetic perfumes are used to improve the natural perfumes. Cottonseed is separated into oil
and meal; the oil going to make margarin and the meal going to feed the cows that produce butter.
Some people have been drinking coffee, although they do not like the taste of it, because they
want the stimulating effect of its alkaloid, caffein. Other people liked the warmth and flavor
of coffee but find that caffein does not agree with them. Formerly one had to take the coffee
whole or let it alone. Now one can have his choice, for the caffein is extracted for use in
certain popular cold drinks and the rest of the bean sold as caffein-free coffee.

Most of the "soft drinks" that are now gradually displacing the hard ones consist of sugar,
water and carbonic acid, with various flavors, chiefly the esters of the fatty and aromatic
acids, such as I described in a previous chapter. These are still usually made from fruits
and spices and in some cases the law or public opinion requires this, but eventually, I presume,
the synthetic flavors will displace the natural and then we shall get rid of such extraneous
and indigestible matter as seeds, skins and bark. Suppose the world had always been used to
synthetic and hence seedless figs, strawberries and blackberries. Suppose then some manufacturer
of fig paste or strawberry jam should put in ten per cent. of little round hard wooden nodules,
just the sort to get stuck between the teeth or caught in the vermiform appendix. How long
would it be before he was sent to jail for adulterating food? But neither jail nor boycott
has any reformatory effect on Nature.

Nature is quite human in that respect. But you can reform Nature as you can human beings by
looking out for heredity and culture. In this way Mother Nature has been quite cured of her
bad habit of putting seeds in bananas and oranges. Figs she still persists in adulterating
with particles of cellulose as nutritious as sawdust. But we can circumvent the old lady at
this. I got on Christmas a package of figs from California without a seed in them. Somebody
had taken out all the seeds--it must have been a big job--and then put the figs together again
as natural looking as life and very much better tasting.

Sugar and alcohol are both found in Nature; sugar in the ripe fruit, alcohol when it begins
to decay. But it was the chemist who discovered how to extract them. He first worked with alcohol
and unfortunately succeeded.

Previous to the invention of the still by the Arabian chemists man could not get drunk as quickly
as he wanted to because his liquors were limited to what the yeast plant could stand without
intoxication. When the alcoholic content of wine or beer rose to seventeen per cent. at the
most the process of fermentation stopped because the yeast plants got drunk and quit "working."
That meant that a man confined to ordinary wine or beer had to drink ten or twenty quarts of
water to get one quart of the stuff he was after, and he had no liking for water.

So the chemist helped him out of this difficulty and got him into worse trouble by distilling
the wine. The more volatile part that came over first contained the flavor and most of the
alcohol. In this way he could get liquors like brandy and whisky, rum and gin, containing from
thirty to eighty per cent. of alcohol. This was the origin of the modern liquor problem. The
wine of the ancients was strong enough to knock out Noah and put the companions of Socrates
under the table, but it was not until distilled liquors came in that alcoholism became chronic,
epidemic and ruinous to whole populations.

But the chemist later tried to undo the ruin he had quite inadvertently wrought by introducing
alcohol into the world. One of his most successful measures was the production of cheap and
pure sugar which, as we have seen, has become a large factor in the dietary of civilized countries.
As a country sobers up it takes to sugar as a "self-starter" to provide the energy needed for
the strenuous life. A five o'clock candy is a better restorative than a five o'clock highball
or even a five o'clock tea, for it is a true nutrient instead of a mere stimulant. It is a
matter of common observation that those who like sweets usually do not like alcohol. Women,
for instance, are apt to eat candy but do not commonly take to alcoholic beverages. Look around
you at a banquet table and you will generally find that those who turn down their wine glasses
generally take two lumps in their demi-tasses. We often hear it said that whenever a candy
store opens up a saloon in the same block closes up. Our grandmothers used to warn their daughters:
"Don't marry a man who does not want sugar in his tea. He is likely to take to drink." So,
young man, when next you give a box of candy to your best girl and she offers you some, don't
decline it. Eat it and pretend to like it, at least, for it is quite possible that she looked
into a physiology and is trying you out. You never can tell what girls are up to.

In the army and navy ration the same change has taken place as in the popular dietary. The
ration of rum has been mostly replaced by an equivalent amount of candy or marmalade. Instead
of the tippling trooper of former days we have "the chocolate soldier." No previous war in
history has been fought so largely on sugar and so little on alcohol as the last one. When
the war reduced the supply and increased the demand we all felt the sugar famine and it became
a mark of patriotism to refuse candy and to drink coffee unsweetened. This, however, is not,
as some think, the mere curtailment of a superfluous or harmful luxury, the sacrifice of a
pleasant sensation. It is a real deprivation and a serious loss to national nutrition. For
there is no reason to think the constantly rising curve of sugar consumption has yet reached
its maximum or optimum. Individuals overeat, but not the population as a whole. According to
experiments of the Department of Agriculture men doing heavy labor may add three-quarters of
a pound of sugar to their daily diet without any deleterious effects. This is at the rate of
275 pounds a year, which is three times the average consumption of England and America. But
the Department does not state how much a girl doing nothing ought to eat between meals.

Of the 2500 to 3500 calories of energy required to keep a man going for a day the best source
of supply is the carbohydrates, that is, the sugars and starches. The fats are more concentrated
but are more expensive and less easily assimilable. The proteins are also more expensive and
their decomposition products are more apt to clog up the system. Common sugar is almost an
ideal food. Cheap, clean, white, portable, imperishable, unadulterated, pleasant-tasting, germ-free,
highly nutritious, completely soluble, altogether digestible, easily assimilable, requires
no cooking and leaves no residue. Its only fault is its perfection. It is so pure that a man
cannot live on it. Four square lumps give one hundred calories of energy. But twenty-five or
thirty-five times that amount would not constitute a day's ration, in fact one would ultimately
starve on such fare. It would be like supplying an army with an abundance of powder but neglecting
to provide any bullets, clothing or food. To make sugar the sole food is impossible. To make
it the main food is unwise. It is quite proper for man to separate out the distinct ingredients
of natural products--to extract the butter from the milk, the casein from the cheese, the sugar
from the cane--but he must not forget to combine them again at each meal with the other essential
foodstuffs in their proper proportion.

Sugar is not a synthetic product and the business of the chemist has been merely to extract
and purify it. But this is not so simple as it seems and every sugar factory has had to have
its chemist. He has analyzed every mother beet for a hundred years. He has watched every step
of the process from the cane to the crystal lest the sucrose should invert to the less sweet
and non-crystallizable glucose. He has tested with polarized light every shipment of sugar
that has passed through the custom house, much to the mystification of congressmen who have
often wondered at the money and argumentation expended in a tariff discussion over the question
of the precise angle of rotation of the plane of vibration of infinitesimal waves in a hypothetical
ether.

The reason for this painstaking is that there are dozens of different sugars, so much alike
that they are difficult to separate. They are all composed of the same three elements, C, H
and O, and often in the same proportion. Sometimes two sugars differ only in that one has a
right-handed and the other a left-handed twist to its molecule. They bear the same resemblance
to one another as the two gloves of a pair. Cane sugar and beet sugar are when completely purified
the same substance, that is, sucrose, C{12}H{22}O{11}. The brown and straw-colored sugars,
which our forefathers used and which we took to using during the war, are essentially the same
but have not been so completely freed from moisture and the coloring and flavoring matter of
the cane juice. Maple sugar is mostly sucrose. So partly is honey. Candies are made chiefly
of sucrose with the addition of glucose, gums or starch, to give them the necessary consistency
and of such colors and flavors, natural or synthetic, as may be desired. Practically all candy,
even the cheapest, is nowadays free from deleterious ingredients in the manufacture, though
it is liable to become contaminated in the handling. In fact sugar is about the only food that
is never adulterated. It would be hard to find anything cheaper to add to it that would not
be easily detected. "Sanding the sugar," the crime of which grocers are generally accused,
is the one they are least likely to be guilty of.

Besides the big family of sugars which are all more or less sweet, similar in structure and
about equally nutritious, there are, very curiously, other chemical compounds of altogether
different composition which taste like sugar but are not nutritious at all. One of these is
a coal-tar derivative, discovered accidentally by an American student of chemistry, Ira Remsen,
afterward president of Johns Hopkins University, and named by him "saccharin." This has the
composition C{6}H{4}COSO{2}NH, and as you may observe from the symbol it contains sulfur (S)
and nitrogen (N) and the benzene ring (C{6}H{4}) that are not found in any of the sugars. It
is several hundred times sweeter than sugar, though it has also a slightly bitter aftertaste.
A minute quantity of it can therefore take the place of a large amount of sugar in syrups,
candies and preserves, so because it lends itself readily to deception its use in food has
been prohibited in the United States and other countries. But during the war, on account of
the shortage of sugar, it came again into use. The European governments encouraged what they
formerly tried to prevent, and it became customary in Germany or Italy to carry about a package
of saccharin tablets in the pocket and drop one or two into the tea or coffee. Such reversals
of administrative attitude are not uncommon. When the use of hops in beer was new it was prohibited
by British law. But hops became customary nevertheless and now the law requires hops to be
used in beer. When workingmen first wanted to form unions, laws were passed to prevent them.
But now, in Australia for instance, the laws require workingmen to form unions. Governments
naturally tend to a conservative reaction against anything new.

It is amusing to turn back to the pure food agitation of ten years ago and read the sensational
articles in the newspapers about the poisonous nature of this dangerous drug, saccharin, in
view of the fact that it is being used by millions of people in Europe in amounts greater than
once seemed to upset the tender stomachs of the Washington "poison squads." But saccharin does
not appear to be responsible for any fatalities yet, though people are said to be heartily
sick of it. And well they may be, for it is not a substitute for sugar except to the sense
of taste. Glucose may correctly be called a substitute for sucrose as margarin for butter,
since they not only taste much the same but have about the same food value. But to serve saccharin
in the place of sugar is like giving a rubber bone to a dog. It is reported from Europe that
the constant use of saccharin gives one eventually a distaste for all sweets. This is quite
likely, although it means the reversal within a few years of prehistoric food habits. Mankind
has always associated sweetness with food value, for there are few sweet things found in nature
except the sugars. We think we eat sugar because it is sweet. But we do not. We eat it because
it is good for us. The reason it tastes sweet to us is because it is good for us. So man makes
a virtue out of necessity, a pleasure out of duty, which is the essence of ethics.

In the ancient days of Ind the great Raja Trishanku possessed an earthly paradise that had
been constructed for his delectation by a magician. Therein grew all manner of beautiful flowers,
savory herbs and delicious fruits such as had never been known before outside heaven. Of them
all the Raja and his harems liked none better than the reed from which they could suck honey.
But Indra, being a jealous god, was wroth when he looked down and beheld mere mortals enjoying
such delights. So he willed the destruction of the enchanted garden. With drought and tempest
it was devastated, with fire and hail, until not a leaf was left of its luxuriant vegetation
and the ground was bare as a threshing floor. But the roots of the sugar cane are not destroyed
though the stalk be cut down; so when men ventured to enter the desert where once had been
this garden of Eden, they found the cane had grown up again and they carried away cuttings
of it and cultivated it in their gardens. Thus it happened that the nectar of the gods descended
first to monarchs and their favorites, then was spread among the people and carried abroad
to other lands until now any child with a penny in his hand may buy of the best of it. So it
has been with many things. So may it be with all things.

X

WHAT COMES FROM CORN

The discovery of America dowered mankind with a world of new flora. The early explorers in
their haste to gather up gold paid little attention to the more valuable products of field
and forest, but in the course of centuries their usefulness has become universally recognized.
The potato and tomato, which Europe at first considered as unfit for food or even as poisonous,
have now become indispensable among all classes. New World drugs like quinine and cocaine have
been adopted into every pharmacopeia. Cocoa is proving a rival of tea and coffee, and even
the banana has made its appearance in European markets. Tobacco and chicle occupy the nostrils
and jaws of a large part of the human race. Maize and rubber are become the common property
of mankind, but still may be called American. The United States alone raises four-fifths of
the corn and uses three-fourths of the caoutchouc of the world.

All flesh is grass. This may be taken in a dietary as well as a metaphorical sense. The graminaceae
provide the greater part of the sustenance of man and beast; hay and cereals, wheat, oats,
rye, barley, rice, sugar cane, sorghum and corn. From an American viewpoint the greatest of
these, physically and financially, is corn. The corn crop of the United States for 1917, amounting
to 3,159,000,000 bushels, brought in more money than the wheat, cotton, potato and rye crops
all together.

When Columbus reached the West Indies he found the savages playing with rubber balls, smoking
incense sticks of tobacco and eating cakes made of a new grain that they called mahiz. When
Pizarro invaded Peru he found this same cereal used by the natives not only for food but also
for making alcoholic liquor, in spite of the efforts of the Incas to enforce prohibition. When
the Pilgrim Fathers penetrated into the woods back of Plymouth Harbor they discovered a cache
of Indian corn. So throughout the three Americas, from Canada to Peru, corn was king and it
has proved worthy to rank with the rival cereals of other continents, the wheat of Europe and
the rice of Asia. But food habits are hard to change and for the most part the people of the
Old World are still ignorant of the delights of hasty pudding and Indian pudding, of hoe-cake
and hominy, of sweet corn and popcorn. I remember thirty years ago seeing on a London stand
a heap of dejected popcorn balls labeled "Novel American Confection. Please Try One." But nobody
complied with this pitiful appeal but me and I was sorry that I did. Americans used to respond
with a shipload of corn whenever an appeal came from famine sufferers in Armenia, Russia, Ireland,
India or Austria, but their generosity was chilled when they found that their gift was resented
as an insult or as an attempt to poison the impoverished population, who declared that they
would rather die than eat it--and some of them did. Our Department of Agriculture sent maize
missionaries to Europe with farmers and millers as educators and expert cooks to serve free
flapjacks and pones, but the propaganda made little impression and today Americans are urged
to eat more of their own corn because the famished families of the war-stricken region will
not touch it. Just so the beggars of Munich revolted at potato soup when the pioneer of American
food chemists, Bumford, attempted to introduce this transatlantic dish.

But here we are not so much concerned with corn foods as we are with its manufactured products.
If you split a kernel in two you will find that it consists of three parts: a hard and horny
hull on the outside, a small oily and nitrogenous germ at the point, and a white body consisting
mostly of starch. Each of these is worked up into various products, as may be seen from the
accompanying table. The hull forms bran and may be mixed with the gluten as a cattle food.
The corn steeped for several days with sulfurous acid is disintegrated and on being ground
the germs are floated off, the gluten or nitrogenous portion washed out, the starch grains
settled down and the residue pressed together as oil cake fodder. The refined oil from the
germ is marketed as a table or cooking oil under the name of "Mazola" and comes into competition
with olive, peanut and cottonseed oil in the making of vegetable substitutes for lard and butter.
Inferior grades may be used for soaps or for glycerin and perhaps nitroglycerin. A bushel of
corn yields a pound or more of oil. From the corn germ also is extracted a gum called "paragol"
that forms an acceptable substitute for rubber in certain uses. The "red rubber" sponges and
the eraser tips to pencils may be made of it and it can contribute some twenty per cent. to
the synthetic soles of shoes.

Starch, which constitutes fifty-five per cent. of the corn kernel, can be converted into a
variety of products for dietary and industrial uses. As found in corn, potatoes or any other
vegetables starch consists of small, round, white, hard grains, tasteless, and insoluble in
cold water. But hot water converts it into a soluble, sticky form which may serve for starching
clothes or making cornstarch pudding. Carrying the process further with the aid of a little
acid or other catalyst it takes up water and goes over into a sugar, dextrose, commonly called
"glucose." Expressed in chemical shorthand this reaction is

  C{6}H{10}O{5} + H{2}O   -->  C{6}H{12}O{6}
         starch      water          dextrose

This reaction is carried out on forty million bushels of corn a year in the United States.
The "starch milk," that is, the starch grains washed out from the disintegrated corn kernel
by water, is digested in large pressure tanks under fifty pounds of steam with a few tenths
of one per cent. of hydrochloric acid until the required degree of conversion is reached. Then
the remaining acid is neutralized by caustic soda, and thereby converted into common salt,
which in this small amount does not interfere but rather enhances the taste. The product is
the commercial glucose or corn syrup, which may if desired be evaporated to a white powder.
It is a mixture of three derivatives of starch in about this proportion:

  Maltose          45 per cent.
  Dextrose         20 per cent.
  Dextrin          35 per cent.

There are also present three- or four-tenths of one per cent. salt and as much of the corn
protein and a variable amount of water. It will be noticed that the glucose (dextrose), which
gives name to the whole, is the least of the three ingredients.

Maltose, or malt sugar, has the same composition as cane sugar (C{12}H{22}O{11}), but is not
nearly so sweet. Dextrin, or starch paste, is not sweet at all. Dextrose or glucose is otherwise
known; as grape sugar, for it is commonly found in grapes and other ripe fruits. It forms half
of honey and it is one of the two products into which cane sugar splits up when we take it
into the mouth. It is not so sweet as cane sugar and cannot be so readily crystallized, which,
however, is not altogether a disadvantage.

The process of changing starch into dextrose that takes place in the great steam kettles of
the glucose factory is essentially the same as that which takes place in the ripening of fruit
and in the digestion of starch. A large part of our nutriment, therefore, consists of glucose
either eaten as such in ripe fruits or produced in the mouth or stomach by the decomposition
of the starch of unripe fruit, vegetables and cereals. Glucose may be regarded as a predigested
food. In spite of this well-known fact we still sometimes read "poor food" articles in which
glucose is denounced as a dangerous adulterant and even classed as a poison.

The other ingredients of commercial glucose, the maltose and dextrin, have of course the same
food value as the dextrose, since they are made over into dextrose in the process of digestion.
Whether the glucose syrup is fit to eat depends, like anything else, on how it is made. If,
as was formerly sometimes the case, sulfuric acid was used to effect the conversion of the
starch or sulfurous acid to bleach the glucose and these acids were not altogether eliminated,
the product might be unwholesome or worse. Some years ago in England there was a mysterious
epidemic of arsenical poisoning among beer drinkers. On tracing it back it was found that the
beer had been made from glucose which had been made from sulfuric acid which had been made
from sulfur which had been made from a batch of iron pyrites which contained a little arsenic.
The replacement of sulfuric acid by hydrochloric has done away with that danger and the glucose
now produced is pure.

The old recipe for home-made candy called for the addition of a little vinegar to the sugar
syrup to prevent "graining." The purpose of the acid was of course to invert part of the cane
sugar to glucose so as to keep it from crystallizing out again. The professional candy-maker
now uses the corn glucose for that purpose, so if we accuse him of "adulteration" on that ground
we must levy the same accusation against our grandmothers. The introduction of glucose into
candy manufacture has not injured but greatly increased the sale of sugar for the same purpose.
This is not an uncommon effect of scientific progress, for as we have observed, the introduction
of synthetic perfumes has stimulated the production of odoriferous flowers and the price of
butter has gone up with the introduction of margarin. So, too, there are more weavers employed
and they get higher wages than in the days when they smashed up the first weaving machines,
and the same is true of printers and typesetting machines. The popular animosity displayed
toward any new achievement of applied science is never justified, for it benefits not only
the world as a whole but usually even those interests with which it seems at first to conflict.

The chemist is an economizer. It is his special business to hunt up waste products and make
them useful. He was, for instance, worried over the waste of the cores and skins and scraps
that were being thrown away when apples were put up. Apple pulp contains pectin, which is what
makes jelly jell, and berries and fruits that are short of it will refuse to "jell." But using
these for their flavor he adds apple pulp for pectin and glucose for smoothness and sugar for
sweetness and, if necessary, synthetic dyes for color, he is able to put on the market a variety
of jellies, jams and marmalades at very low price. The same principle applies here as in the
case of all compounded food products. If they are made in cleanly fashion, contain no harmful
ingredients and are truthfully labeled there is no reason for objecting to them. But if the
manufacturer goes so far as to put strawberry seeds--or hayseed--into his artificial "strawberry
jam" I think that might properly be called adulteration, for it is imitating the imperfections
of nature, and man ought to be too proud to do that.

The old-fashioned open kettle molasses consisted mostly of glucose and other invert sugars
together with such cane sugar as could not be crystallized out. But when the vacuum pan was
introduced the molasses was impoverished of its sweetness and beet sugar does not yield any
molasses. So we now have in its place the corn syrups consisting of about 85 per cent. of glucose
and 15 per cent. of sugar flavored with maple or vanillin or whatever we like. It is encouraging
to see the bill boards proclaiming the virtues of "Karo" syrup and "Mazola" oil when only a
few years ago the products of our national cereal were without honor in their own country.

Many other products besides foods are made from corn starch. Dextrin serves in place of the
old "gum arabic" for the mucilage of our envelopes and stamps. Another form of dextrin sold
as "Kordex" is used to hold together the sand of the cores of castings. After the casting has
been made the scorched core can be shaken out. Glucose is used in place of sugar as a filler
for cheap soaps and for leather.

Altogether more than a hundred different commercial products are now made from corn, not counting
cob pipes. Every year the factories of the United States work up over 50,000,000 bushels of
corn into 800,000,000 pounds of corn syrup, 600,000,000 pounds of starch, 230,000,000 pounds
of corn sugar, 625,000,000 pounds of gluten feed, 90,000,000 pounds of oil and 90,000,000 pounds
of oil cake.

Two million bushels of cobs are wasted every year in the United States. Can't something be
made out of them? This is the question that is agitating the chemists of the Carbohydrate Laboratory
of the Department of Agriculture at Washington. They have found it possible to work up the
corn cobs into glucose and xylose by heating with acid. But glucose can be more cheaply obtained
from other starchy or woody materials and they cannot find a market for the xylose. This is
a sort of a sugar but only about half as sweet as that from cane. Who can invent a use for
it! More promising is the discovery by this laboratory that by digesting the cobs with hot
water there can be extracted about 30 per cent. of a gum suitable for bill posting and labeling.

Since the starches and sugars belong to the same class of compounds as the celluloses they
also can be acted upon by nitric acid with the production of explosives like guncotton. Nitro-sugar
has not come into common use, but nitro-starch is found to be one of safest of the high explosives.
On account of the danger of decomposition and spontaneous explosion from the presence of foreign
substances the materials in explosives must be of the purest possible. It was formerly thought
that tapioca must be imported from Java for making nitro-starch. But during the war when shipping
was short, the War Department found that it could be made better and cheaper from our home-grown
corn starch. When the war closed the United States was making 1,720,000 pounds of nitro-starch
a month for loading hand grenades. So, too, the Post Office Department discovered that it could
use mucilage made of corn dextrin as well as that which used to be made from tapioca. This
is progress in the right direction. It would be well to divert some of the energetic efforts
now devoted to the increase of commerce to the discovery of ways of reducing the need for commerce
by the development of home products. There is no merit in simply hauling things around the world.

In the last chapter we saw how dextrose or glucose could be converted by fermentation into
alcohol. Since corn starch, as we have seen, can be converted into dextrose, it can serve as
a source of alcohol. This was, in fact, one of the earliest misuses to which corn was put,
and before the war put a stop to it 34,000,000 bushels went into the making of whiskey in the
United States every year, not counting the moonshiners' output. But even though we left off
drinking whiskey the distillers could still thrive. Mars is more thirsty than Bacchus. The
output of whiskey, denatured for industrial purposes, is more than three times what is was
before the war, and the price has risen from 30 cents a gallon to 67 cents. This may make it
profitable to utilize sugars, starches and cellulose that formerly were out of the question.
According to the calculations of the Forest Products Laboratory of Madison it costs from 37
to 44 cents a gallon to make alcohol from corn, but it may be made from sawdust at a cost of
from 14 to 20 cents. This is not "wood alcohol" (that is, methyl alcohol, CH{4}O) such as is
made by the destructive distillation of wood, but genuine "grain alcohol" (ethyl alcohol, C{2}H{6}O),
such as is made by the fermentation of glucose or other sugar. The first step in the process
is to digest the sawdust or chips with dilute sulfuric acid under heat and pressure. This converts
the cellulose (wood fiber) in large part into glucose ("corn sugar") which may be extracted
by hot water in a diffusion battery as in extracting the sugar from beet chips. This glucose
solution may then be fermented by yeast and the resulting alcohol distilled off. The process
is perfectly practicable but has yet to be proved profitable. But the sulfite liquors of the
paper mills are being worked up successfully into industrial alcohol.

The rapidly approaching exhaustion of our oil fields which the war has accelerated leads us
to look around to see what we can get to take the place of gasoline. One of the most promising
of the suggested substitutes is alcohol. The United States is exceptionally rich in mineral
oil, but some countries, for instance England, Germany, France and Australia, have little or
none. The Australian Advisory Council of Science, called to consider the problem, recommends
alcohol for stationary engines and motor cars. Alcohol has the disadvantage of being less volatile
than gasoline so it is hard to start up the engine from the cold. But the lower volatility
and ignition point of alcohol are an advantage in that it can be put under a pressure of 150
pounds to the square inch. A pound of gasoline contains fifty per cent. more potential energy
than a pound of alcohol, but since the alcohol vapor can be put under twice the compression
of the gasoline and requires only one-third the amount of air, the thermal efficiency of an
alcohol engine may be fifty per cent. higher than that of a gasoline engine. Alcohol also has
several other conveniences that can count in its favor. In the case of incomplete combustion
the cylinders are less likely to be clogged with carbon and the escaping gases do not have
the offensive odor of the gasoline smoke. Alcohol does not ignite so easily as gasoline and
the fire is more readily put out, for water thrown upon blazing alcohol dilutes it and puts
out the flame while gasoline floats on water and the fire is spread by it. It is possible to
increase the inflammability of alcohol by mixing with it some hydrocarbon such as gasoline,
benzene or acetylene. In the Taylor-White process the vapor from low-grade alcohol containing
17 per cent. water is passed over calcium carbide. This takes out the water and adds acetylene
gas, making a suitable mixture for an internal combustion engine.

Alcohol can be made from anything of a starchy, sugary or woody nature, that is, from the main
substance of all vegetation. If we start with wood (cellulose) we convert it first into sugar
(glucose) and, of course, we could stop here and use it for food instead of carrying it on
into alcohol. This provides one factor of our food, the carbohydrate, but by growing the yeast
plants on glucose and feeding them with nitrates made from the air we can get the protein and
fat. So it is quite possible to live on sawdust, although it would be too expensive a diet
for anybody but a millionaire, and he would not enjoy it. Glucose has been made from formaldehyde
and this in turn made from carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, so the synthetic production of food
from the elements is not such an absurdity as it was thought when Berthelot suggested it half
a century ago.

The first step in the making of alcohol is to change the starch over into sugar. This transformation
is effected in the natural course of sprouting by which the insoluble starch stored up in the
seed is converted into the soluble glucose for the sap of the growing plant. This malting process
is that mainly made use of in the production of alcohol from grain. But there are other ways
of effecting the change. It may be done by heating with acid as we have seen, or according
to a method now being developed the final conversion may be accomplished by mold instead of
malt. In applying this method, known as the amylo process, to corn, the meal is mixed with
twice its weight of water, acidified with hydrochloric acid and steamed. The mash is then cooled
down somewhat, diluted with sterilized water and innoculated with the mucor filaments. As the
mash molds the starch is gradually changed over to glucose and if this is the product desired
the process may be stopped at this point. But if alcohol is wanted yeast is added to ferment
the sugar. By keeping it alkaline and treating with the proper bacteria a high yield of glycerin
can be obtained.

In the fermentation process for making alcoholic liquors a little glycerin is produced as a
by-product. Glycerin, otherwise called glycerol, is intermediate between sugar and alcohol.
Its molecule contains three carbon atoms, while glucose has six and alcohol two. It is possible
to increase the yield of glycerin if desired by varying the form of fermentation. This was
desired most earnestly in Germany during the war, for the British blockade shut off the importation
of the fats and oils from which the Germans extracted the glycerin for their nitroglycerin.
Under pressure of this necessity they worked out a process of getting glycerin in quantity
from sugar and, news of this being brought to this country by Dr. Alonzo Taylor, the United
States Treasury Department set up a special laboratory to work out this problem. John R. Eoff
and other chemists working in this laboratory succeeded in getting a yield of twenty per cent.
of glycerin by fermenting black strap molasses or other syrup with California wine yeast. During
the fermentation it is necessary to neutralize the acetic acid formed with sodium or calcium
carbonate. It was estimated that glycerin could be made from waste sugars at about a quarter
of its war-time cost, but it is doubtful whether the process would be profitable at normal prices.

We can, if we like, dispense with either yeast or bacteria in the production of glycerin. Glucose
syrup suspended in oil under steam pressure with finely divided nickel as a catalyst and treated
with nascent hydrogen will take up the hydrogen and be converted into glycerin. But the yield
is poor and the process expensive.

Food serves substantially the same purpose in the body as fuel in the engine. It provides the
energy for work. The carbohydrates, that is the sugars, starches and celluloses, can all be
used as fuels and can all--even, as we have seen, the cellulose--be used as foods. The final
products, water and carbon dioxide, are in both cases the same and necessarily therefore the
amount of energy produced is the same in the body as in the engine. Corn is a good example
of the equivalence of the two sources of energy. There are few better foods and no better fuels.
I can remember the good old days in Kansas when we had corn to burn. It was both an economy
and a luxury, for--at ten cents a bushel--it was cheaper than coal or wood and preferable to
either at any price. The long yellow ears, each wrapped in its own kindling, could be handled
without crocking the fingers. Each kernel as it crackled sent out a blazing jet of oil and
the cobs left a fine bed of coals for the corn popper to be shaken over. Driftwood and the
pyrotechnic fuel they make now by soaking sticks in strontium and copper salts cannot compare
with the old-fashioned corn-fed fire in beauty and the power of evoking visions. Doubtless
such luxury would be condemned as wicked nowadays, but those who have known the calorific value
of corn would find it hard to abandon it altogether, and I fancy that the Western farmer's
wife, when she has an extra batch of baking to do, will still steal a few ears from the crib.

XI

SOLIDIFIED SUNSHINE

All life and all that life accomplishes depend upon the supply of solar energy stored in the
form of food. The chief sources of this vital energy are the fats and the sugars. The former
contain two and a quarter times the potential energy of the latter. Both, when completely purified,
consist of nothing but carbon, hydrogen and oxygen; elements that are to be found freely everywhere
in air and water. So when the sunny southland exports fats and oils, starches and sugar, it
is then sending away nothing material but what comes back to it in the next wind. What it is
sending to the regions of more slanting sunshine is merely some of the surplus of the radiant
energy it has received so abundantly, compacted for convenience into a portable and edible form.

In previous chapters I have dealt with some of the uses of cotton, its employment for cloth,
for paper, for artificial fibers, for explosives, and for plastics. But I have ignored the
thing that cotton is attached to and for which, in the economy of nature, the fibers are formed;
that is, the seed. It is as though I had described the aeroplane and ignored the aviator whom
it was designed to carry. But in this neglect I am but following the example of the human race,
which for three thousand years used the fiber but made no use of the seed except to plant the
next crop.

Just as mankind is now divided into the two great classes, the wheat-eaters and the rice-eaters,
so the ancient world was divided into the wool-wearers and the cotton-wearers. The people of
India wore cotton; the Europeans wore wool. When the Greeks under Alexander fought their way
to the Far East they were surprised to find wool growing on trees. Later travelers returning
from Cathay told of the same marvel and travelers who stayed at home and wrote about what they
had not seen, like Sir John Maundeville, misunderstood these reports and elaborated a legend
of a tree that bore live lambs as fruit. Here, for instance, is how a French poetical botanist,
Delacroix, described it in 1791, as translated from his Latin verse:

  Upon a stalk is fixed a living brute,
  A rooted plant bears quadruped for fruit;
  It has a fleece, nor does it want for eyes,
  And from its brows two wooly horns arise.
  The rude and simple country people say
  It is an animal that sleeps by day
  And wakes at night, though rooted to the ground,
  To feed on grass within its reach around.

But modern commerce broke down the barrier between East and West. A new cotton country, the
best in the world, was discovered in America. Cotton invaded England and after a hard fight,
with fists as well as finance, wool was beaten in its chief stronghold. Cotton became King
and the wool-sack in the House of Lords lost its symbolic significance.

Still two-thirds of the cotton crop, the seed, was wasted and it is only within the last fifty
years that methods of using it have been developed to any extent.

The cotton crop of the United States for 1917 amounted to about 11,000,000 bales of 500 pounds
each. When the Great War broke out and no cotton could be exported to Germany and little to
England the South was in despair, for cotton went down to five or six cents a pound. The national
Government, regardless of states' rights, was called upon for aid and everybody was besought
to "buy a bale." Those who responded to this patriotic appeal were well rewarded, for cotton
rose as the war went on and sold at twenty-nine cents a pound.

But the chemist has added some $150,000,000 a year to the value of the crop by discovering
ways of utilizing the cottonseed that used to be thrown away or burned as fuel. The genealogical
table of the progeny of the cottonseed herewith printed will give some idea of their variety.
If you will examine a cottonseed you will see first that there is a fine fuzz of cotton fiber
sticking to it. These linters can be removed by machinery and used for any purpose where length
of fiber is not essential. For instance, they may be nitrated as described in previous articles
and used for making smokeless powder or celluloid.

On cutting open the seed you will observe that it consists of an oily, mealy kernel encased
in a thin brown hull. The hulls, amounting to 700 or 900 pounds in a ton of seed, were formerly
burned. Now, however, they bring from $4 to $10 a ton because they can be ground up into cattle-feed
or paper stock or used as fertilizer.

The kernel of the cottonseed on being pressed yields a yellow oil and leaves a mealy cake.
This last, mixed with the hulls, makes a good fodder for fattening cattle. Also, adding twenty-five
per cent. of the refined cottonseed meal to our war bread made it more nutritious and no less
palatable. Cottonseed meal contains about forty per cent. of protein and is therefore a highly
concentrated and very valuable feeding stuff. Before the war we were exporting nearly half
a million tons of cottonseed meal to Europe, chiefly to Germany and Denmark, where it is used
for dairy cows. The British yeoman, his country's pride, has not yet been won over to the use
of any such newfangled fodder and consequently the British manufacturer could not compete with
his continental rivals in the seed-crushing business, for he could not dispose of his meal-cake
by-product as did they.

Let us now turn to the most valuable of the cottonseed products, the oil. The seed contains
about twenty per cent. of oil, most of which can be squeezed out of the hot seeds by hydraulic
pressure. It comes out as a red liquid of a disagreeable odor. This is decolorized, deodorized
and otherwise purified in various ways: by treatment with alkalies or acids, by blowing air
and steam through it, by shaking up with fuller's earth, by settling and filtering. The refined
product is a yellow oil, suitable for table use. Formerly, on account of the popular prejudice
against any novel food products, it used to masquerade as olive oil. Now, however, it boldly
competes with its ancient rival in the lands of the olive tree and America ships some 700,000
barrels of cottonseed oil a year to the Mediterranean. The Turkish Government tried to check
the spread of cottonseed oil by calling it an adulterant and prohibiting its mixture with olive
oil. The result was that the sale of Turkish olive oil fell off because people found its flavor
too strong when undiluted. Italy imports cottonseed oil and exports her olive oil. Denmark
imports cottonseed meal and margarine and exports her butter.

Northern nations are accustomed to hard fats and do not take to oils for cooking or table use
as do the southerners. Butter and lard are preferred to olive oil and ghee. But this does not
rule out cottonseed. It can be combined with the hard fats of animal or vegetable origin in
margarine or it may itself be hardened by hydrogen.

To understand this interesting reaction which is profoundly affecting international relations
it will be necessary to dip into the chemistry of the subject. Here are the symbols of the
chief ingredients of the fats and oils. Please look at them.

  Linoleic acid       C{18}H{32}O{2}
  Oleic acid          C{18}H{34}O{2}
  Stearic acid        C{18}H{36}O{2}

Don't skip these because you have not studied chemistry. That's why I am giving them to you.
If you had studied chemistry you would know them without my telling. Just examine them and
you will discover the secret. You will see that all three are composed of the same elements,
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Notice next the number of atoms in each element as indicated
by the little low figures on the right of each letter. You observe that all three contain the
same number of atoms of carbon and oxygen but differ in the amount of hydrogen. This trifling
difference in composition makes a great difference in behavior. The less the hydrogen the lower
the melting point. Or to say the same thing in other words, fatty substances low in hydrogen
are apt to be liquids and those with a full complement of hydrogen atoms are apt to be solids
at the ordinary temperature of the air. It is common to call the former "oils" and the latter
"fats," but that implies too great a dissimilarity, for the distinction depends on whether
we are living in the tropics or the arctic. It is better, therefore, to lump them all together
and call them "soft fats" and "hard fats," respectively.

Fats of the third order, the stearic group, are called "saturated" because they have taken
up all the hydrogen they can hold. Fats of the other two groups are called "unsaturated." The
first, which have the least hydrogen, are the most eager for more. If hydrogen is not handy
they will take up other things, for instance oxygen. Linseed oil, which consists largely, as
the name implies, of linoleic acid, will absorb oxygen on exposure to the air and become hard.
That is why it is used in painting. Such oils are called "drying" oils, although the hardening
process is not really drying, since they contain no water, but is oxidation. The "semi-drying
oils," those that will harden somewhat on exposure to the air, include the oils of cottonseed,
corn, sesame, soy bean and castor bean. Olive oil and peanut oil are "non-drying" and contain
oleic compounds (olein). The hard fats, such as stearin, palmitin and margarin, are mostly
of animal origin, tallow and lard, though coconut and palm oil contain a large proportion of
such saturated compounds.

Though the chemist talks of the fatty "acids," nobody else would call them so because they
are not sour. But they do behave like the acids in forming salts with bases. The alkali salts
of the fatty acids are known to us as soaps. In the natural fats they exist not as free acids
but as salts of an organic base, glycerin, as I explained in a previous chapter. The natural
fats and oils consist of complex mixtures of the glycerin compounds of these acids (known as
olein, stearin, etc.), as well as various others of a similar sort. If you will set a bottle
of salad oil in the ice-box you will see it separate into two parts. The white, crystalline
solid that separates out is largely stearin. The part that remains liquid is largely olein.
You might separate them by filtering it cold and if then you tried to sell the two products
you would find that the hard fat would bring a higher price than the oil, either for food or
soap. If you tried to keep them you would find that the hard fat kept neutral and "sweet" longer
than the other. You may remember that the perfumes (as well as their odorous opposites) were
mostly unsaturated compounds. So we find that it is the free and unsaturated fatty acids that
cause butter and oil to become rank and rancid.

Obviously, then, we could make money if we could turn soft, unsaturated fats like olein into
hard, saturated fats like stearin. Referring to the symbols we see that all that is needed
to effect the change is to get the former to unite with hydrogen. This requires a little coaxing.
The coaxer is called a catalyst. A catalyst, as I have previously explained, is a substance
that by its mere presence causes the union of two other substances that might otherwise remain
separate. For that reason the catalyst is referred to as "a chemical parson." Finely divided
metals have a strong catalytic action. Platinum sponge is excellent but too expensive. So in
this case nickel is used. A nickel salt mixed with charcoal or pumice is reduced to the metallic
state by heating in a current of hydrogen. Then it is dropped into the tank of oil and hydrogen
gas is blown through. The hydrogen may be obtained by splitting water into its two components,
hydrogen and oxygen, by means of the electrical current, or by passing steam over spongy iron
which takes out the oxygen. The stream of hydrogen blown through the hot oil converts the linoleic
acid to oleic and then the oleic into stearic. If you figured up the weights from the symbols
given above you would find that it takes about one pound of hydrogen to convert a hundred pounds
of olein to stearin and the cost is only about one cent a pound. The nickel is unchanged and
is easily separated. A trace of nickel may remain in the product, but as it is very much less
than the amount dissolved when food is cooked in nickel-plated vessels it cannot be regarded
as harmful.

Even more unsaturated fats may be hydrogenated. Fish oil has hitherto been almost unusable
because of its powerful and persistent odor. This is chiefly due to a fatty acid which properly
bears the uneuphonious name of clupanodonic acid and has the composition of C{18}H{28}O{2}.
By comparing this with the symbol of the odorless stearic acid, C{18}H{36}O{2}, you will see
that all the rank fish oil lacks to make it respectable is eight hydrogen atoms. A Japanese
chemist, Tsujimoto, has discovered how to add them and now the reformed fish oil under the
names of "talgol" and "candelite" serves for lubricant and even enters higher circles as a
soap or food.

This process of hardening fats by hydrogenation resulted from the experiments of a French chemist,
Professor Sabatier of Toulouse, in the last years of the last century, but, as in many other
cases, the Germans were the first to take it up and profit by it. Before the war the copra
or coconut oil from the British Asiatic colonies of India, Ceylon and Malaya went to Germany
at the rate of $15,000,000 a year. The palm kernels grown in British West Africa were shipped,
not to Liverpool, but to Hamburg, $19,000,000 worth annually. Here the oil was pressed out
and used for margarin and the residual cake used for feeding cows produced butter or for feeding
hogs produced lard. Half of the copra raised in the British possessions was sent to Germany
and half of the oil from it was resold to the British margarin candle and soap makers at a
handsome profit. The British chemists were not blind to this, but they could do nothing, first
because the English politician was wedded to free trade, second, because the English farmer
would not use oil cake for his stock. France was in a similar situation. Marseilles produced
15,500,000 gallons of oil from peanuts grown largely in the French African colonies--but shipped
the oil-cake on to Hamburg. Meanwhile the Germans, in pursuit of their policy of attaining
economic independence, were striving to develop their own tropical territory. The subjects
of King George who because they had the misfortune to live in India were excluded from the
British South African dominions or mistreated when they did come, were invited to come to German
East Africa and set to raising peanuts in rivalry to French Senegal and British Coromandel.
Before the war Germany got half of the Egyptian cottonseed and half of the Philippine copra.
That is one of the reasons why German warships tried to check Dewey at Manila in 1898 and German
troops tried to conquer Egypt in 1915.

But the tide of war set the other way and the German plantations of palmnuts and peanuts in
Africa have come into British possession and now the British Government is starting an educational
campaign to teach their farmers to feed oil cake like the Germans and their people to eat peanuts
like the Americans.

The Germans shut off from the tropical fats supply were hard up for food and for soap, for
lubricants and for munitions. Every person was given a fat card that reduced his weekly allowance
to the minimum. Millers were required to remove the germs from their cereals and deliver them
to the war department. Children were set to gathering horse-chestnuts, elderberries, linden-balls,
grape seeds, cherry stones and sunflower heads, for these contain from six to twenty per cent.
of oil. Even the blue-bottle fly--hitherto an idle creature for whom Beelzebub found mischief--was
conscripted into the national service and set to laying eggs by the billion on fish refuse.
Within a few days there is a crop of larvae which, to quote the "Chemische Zentralblatt," yields
forty-five grams per kilogram of a yellow oil. This product, we should hope, is used for axle-grease
and nitroglycerin, although properly purified it would be as nutritious as any other--to one
who has no imagination. Driven to such straits Germany would have given a good deal for one
of those tropical islands that we are so careless about.

It might have been supposed that since the United States possessed the best land in the world
for the production of cottonseed, coconuts, peanuts, and corn that it would have led all other
countries in the utilization of vegetable oils for food. That this country has not so used
its advantage is due to the fact that the new products have not merely had to overcome popular
conservatism, ignorance and prejudice--hard things to fight in any case--but have been deliberately
checked and hampered by the state and national governments in defense of vested interests.
The farmer vote is a power that no politician likes to defy and the dairy business in every
state was thoroughly organized. In New York the oleomargarin industry that in 1879 was turning
out products valued at more than $5,000,000 a year was completely crushed out by state legislation.[2]
The output of the United States, which in 1902 had risen to 126,000,000 pounds, was cut down
to 43,000,000 pounds in 1909 by federal legislation. According to the disingenuous custom of
American lawmakers the Act of 1902 was passed through Congress as a "revenue measure," although
it meant a loss to the Government of more than three million dollars a year over what might
be produced by a straight two cents a pound tax. A wholesale dealer in oleomargarin was made
to pay a higher license than a wholesale liquor dealer. The federal law put a tax of ten cents
a pound on yellow oleomargarin and a quarter of a cent a pound on the uncolored. But people--doubtless
from pure prejudice--prefer a yellow spread for their bread, so the economical housewife has
to work over her oleomargarin with the annatto which is given to her when she buys a package
or, if the law prohibits this, which she is permitted to steal from an open box on the grocer's
counter. A plausible pretext for such legislation is afforded by the fact that the butter substitutes
are so much like butter that they cannot be easily distinguished from it unless the use of
annatto is permitted to butter and prohibited to its competitors. Fradulent sales of substitutes
of any kind ought to be prevented, but the recent pure food legislation in America has shown
that it is possible to secure truthful labeling without resorting to such drastic measures.
In Europe the laws against substitution were very strict, but not devised to restrict the industry.
Consequently the margarin output of Germany doubled in the five years preceding the war and
the output of England tripled. In Denmark the consumption of margarin rose from 8.8 pounds
per capita in 1890 to 32.6 pounds in 1912. Yet the butter business, Denmark's pride, was not
injured, and Germany and England imported more butter than ever before. Now that the price
of butter in America has gone over the seventy-five cent mark Congress may conclude that it
no longer needs to be protected against competition.

The "compound lards" or "lard compounds," consisting usually of cottonseed oil and oleo-stearin,
although the latter may now be replaced by hardened oil, met with the same popular prejudice
and attempted legislative interference, but succeeded more easily in coming into common use
under such names as "Cottosuet," "Kream Krisp," "Kuxit," "Korno," "Cottolene" and "Crisco."

Oleomargarin, now generally abbreviated to margarin, originated, like many other inventions,
in military necessity. The French Government in 1869 offered a prize for a butter substitute
for the army that should be cheaper and better than butter in that it did not spoil so easily.
The prize was won by a French chemist, Mége-Mouries, who found that by chilling beef fat the
solid stearin could be separated from an oil (oleo) which was the substantially same as that
in milk and hence in butter. Neutral lard acts the same.

This discovery of how to separate the hard and soft fats was followed by improved methods for
purifying them and later by the process for converting the soft into the hard fats by hydrogenation.
The net result was to put into the hands of the chemist the ability to draw his materials at
will from any land and from the vegetable and animal kingdoms and to combine them as he will
to make new fat foods for every use; hard for summer, soft for winter; solid for the northerners
and liquid for the southerners; white, yellow or any other color, and flavored to suit the
taste. The Hindu can eat no fat from the sacred cow; the Mohammedan and the Jew can eat no
fat from the abhorred pig; the vegetarian will touch neither; other people will take both.
No matter, all can be accommodated.

All the fats and oils, though they consist of scores of different compounds, have practically
the same food value when freed from the extraneous matter that gives them their characteristic
flavors. They are all practically tasteless and colorless. The various vegetable and animal
oils and fats have about the same digestibility, 98 per cent.,[3] and are all ordinarily completely
utilized in the body, supplying it with two and a quarter times as much energy as any other food.

It does not follow, however, that there is no difference in the products. The margarin men
accuse butter of harboring tuberculosis germs from which their product, because it has been
heated or is made from vegetable fats, is free. The butter men retort that margarin is lacking
in vitamines, those mysterious substances which in minute amounts are necessary for life and
especially for growth. Both the claim and the objection lose a large part of their force where
the margarin, as is customarily the case, is mixed with butter or churned up with milk to give
it the familiar flavor. But the difficulty can be easily overcome. The milk used for either
butter or margarin should be free or freed from disease germs. If margarin is altogether substituted
for butter, the necessary vitamines may be sufficiently provided by milk, eggs and greens.

Owing to these new processes all the fatty substances of all lands have been brought into competition
with each other. In such a contest the vegetable is likely to beat the animal and the southern
to win over the northern zones. In Europe before the war the proportion of the various ingredients
used to make butter substitutes was as follows:

  AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF EUROPEAN MARGARIN

                            Per Cent.
  Animal hard fats              25
  Vegetable hard fats           35
    Copra                       29
    Palm-kernel                  6
  Vegetable soft fats           26
    Cottonseed                  13
    Peanut                       6
    Sesame                       6
    Soya-bean                    1
  Water, milk, salt             14

                               100

This is not the composition of any particular brand but the average of them all. The use of
a certain amount of the oil of the sesame seed is required by the laws of Germany and Denmark
because it can be easily detected by a chemical color test and so serves to prevent the margarin
containing it from being sold as butter. "Open sesame!" is the password to these markets. Remembering
that margarin originally was made up entirely of animal fats, soft and hard, we can see from
the above figures how rapidly they are being displaced by the vegetable fats. The cottonseed
and peanut oils have replaced the original oleo oil and the tropical oils from the coconut
(copra) and African palm are crowding out the animal hard fats. Since now we can harden at
will any of the vegetable oils it is possible to get along altogether without animal fats.
Such vegetable margarins were originally prepared for sale in India, but proved unexpectedly
popular in Europe, and are now being introduced into America. They are sold under various trade
names suggesting their origin, such as "palmira," "palmona," "milkonut," "cocose," "coconut
oleomargarin" and "nucoa nut margarin." The last named is stated to be made of coconut oil
(for the hard fat) and peanut oil (for the soft fat), churned up with a culture of pasteurized
milk (to impart the butter flavor). The law requires such a product to be branded "oleomargarine"
although it is not. Such cases of compulsory mislabeling are not rare. You remember the "Pigs
is Pigs" story.

Peanut butter has won its way into the American menu without any camouflage whatever, and as
a salad oil it is almost equally frank about its lowly origin. This nut, which grows on a vine
instead of a tree, and is dug from the ground like potatoes instead of being picked with a
pole, goes by various names according to locality, peanuts, ground-nuts, monkey-nuts, arachides
and goobers. As it takes the place of cotton oil in some of its products so it takes its place
in the fields and oilmills of Texas left vacant by the bollweevil. The once despised peanut
added some $56,000,000 to the wealth of the South in 1916. The peanut is rich in the richest
of foods, some 50 per cent. of oil and 30 per cent. of protein. The latter can be worked up
into meat substitutes that will make the vegetarian cease to envy his omnivorous neighbor.
Thanks largely to the chemist who has opened these new fields of usefulness, the peanut-raiser
got $1.25 a bushel in 1917 instead of the 30 cents that he got four years before.

It would be impossible to enumerate all the available sources of vegetable oils, for all seeds
and nuts contain more or less fatty matter and as we become more economical we shall utilize
of what we now throw away. The germ of the corn kernel, once discarded in the manufacture of
starch, now yields a popular table oil. From tomato seeds, one of the waste products of the
canning factory, can be extracted 22 per cent. of an edible oil. Oats contain 7 per cent. of
oil. From rape seed the Japanese get 20,000 tons of oil a year. To the sources previously mentioned
may be added pumpkin seeds, poppy seeds, raspberry seeds, tobacco seeds, cockleburs, hazelnuts,
walnuts, beechnuts and acorns.

The oil-bearing seeds of the tropics are innumerable and will become increasingly essential
to the inhabitants of northern lands. It was the realization of this that brought on the struggle
of the great powers for the possession of tropical territory which, for years before, they
did not think worth while raising a flag over. No country in the future can consider itself
safe unless it has secure access to such sources. We had a sharp lesson in this during the
war. Palm oil, it seems, is necessary for the manufacture of tinplate, an industry that was
built up in the United States by the McKinley tariff. The British possessions in West Africa
were the chief source of palm oil and the Germans had the handling of it. During the war the
British Government assumed control of the palm oil products of the British and German colonies
and prohibited their export to other countries than England. Americans protested and beseeched,
but in vain. The British held, quite correctly, that they needed all the oil they could get
for food and lubrication and nitroglycerin. But the British also needed canned meat from America
for their soldiers and when it was at length brought to their attention that the packers could
not ship meat unless they had cans and that cans could not be made without tin and that tin
could not be made without palm oil the British Government consented to let us buy a little
of their palm oil. The lesson is that of Voltaire's story, "Candide," "Let us cultivate our
own garden"--and plant a few palm trees in it--also rubber trees, but that is another story.

The international struggle for oil led to the partition of the Pacific as the struggle for
rubber led to the partition of Africa. Theodor Weber, as Stevenson says, "harried the Samoans"
to get copra much as King Leopold of Belgium harried the Congoese to get caoutchouc. It was
Weber who first fully realized that the South Sea islands, formerly given over to cannibals,
pirates and missionaries, might be made immensely valuable through the cultivation of the coconut
palms. When the ripe coconut is split open and exposed to the sun the meat dries up and shrivels
and in this form, called "copra," it can be cut out and shipped to the factory where the oil
is extracted and refined. Weber while German Consul in Samoa was also manager of what was locally
known as "the long-handled concern" (Deutsche Handels und Plantagen Gesellschaft der Südsee
Inseln zu Hamburg), a pioneer commercial and semi-official corporation that played a part in
the Pacific somewhat like the British Hudson Bay Company in Canada or East India Company in
Hindustan. Through the agency of this corporation on the start Germany acquired a virtual monopoly
of the transportation and refining of coconut oil and would have become the dominant power
in the Pacific if she had not been checked by force of arms. In Apia Bay in 1889 and again
in Manila Bay in 1898 an American fleet faced a German fleet ready for action while a British
warship lay between. So we rescued the Philippines and Samoa from German rule and in 1914 German
power was eliminated from the Pacific. During the ten years before the war, the production
of copra in the German islands more than doubled and this was only the beginning of the business.
Now these islands have been divided up among Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and these countries
are planning to take care of the copra.

But although we get no extension of territory from the war we still have the Philippines and
some of the Samoan Islands, and these are capable of great development. From her share of the
Samoan Islands Germany got a million dollars' worth of copra and we might get more from ours.
The Philippines now lead the world in the production of copra, but Java is a close second and
Ceylon not far behind. If we do not look out we will be beaten both by the Dutch and the British,
for they are undertaking the cultivation of the coconut on a larger scale and in a more systematic
way. According to an official bulletin of the Philippine Government a coconut plantation should
bring in "dividends ranging from 10 to 75 per cent. from the tenth to the hundredth year."
And this being printed in 1913 figured the price of copra at 3-1/2 cents, whereas it brought
4-1/2 cents in 1918, so the prospect is still more encouraging. The copra is half fat and can
be cheaply shipped to America, where it can be crushed in the southern oilmills when they are
not busy on cottonseed or peanuts. But even this cost of transportation can be reduced by extracting
the oil in the islands and shipping it in bulk like petroleum in tank steamers.

In the year ending June, 1918, the United States imported from the Philippines 155,000,000
pounds of coconut oil worth $18,000,000 and 220,000,000 pounds of copra worth $10,000,000.
But this was about half our total importations; the rest of it we had to get from foreign countries.
Panama palms may give us a little relief from this dependence on foreign sources. In 1917 we
imported 19,000,000 whole coconuts from Panama valued at $700,000.

A new form of fat that has rapidly come into our market is the oil of the soya or soy bean.
In 1918 we imported over 300,000,000 pounds of soy-bean oil, mostly from Manchuria. The oil
is used in manufacture of substitutes for butter, lard, cheese, milk and cream, as well as
for soap and paint. The soy-bean can be raised in the United States wherever corn can be grown
and provides provender for man and beast. The soy meal left after the extraction of the oil
makes a good cattle food and the fermented juice affords the shoya sauce made familiar to us
through the popularity of the chop-suey restaurants.

As meat and dairy products become scarcer and dearer we shall become increasingly dependent
upon the vegetable fats. We should therefore devise means of saving what we now throw away,
raise as much as we can under our own flag, keep open avenues for our foreign supply and encourage
our cooks to make use of the new products invented by our chemists.

CHAPTER XII

FIGHTING WITH FUMES

The Germans opened the war using projectiles seventeen inches in diameter. They closed it using
projectiles one one-hundred millionth of an inch in diameter. And the latter were more effective
than the former. As the dimensions were reduced from molar to molecular the battle became more
intense. For when the Big Bertha had shot its bolt, that was the end of it. Whomever it hit
was hurt, but after that the steel fragments of the shell lay on the ground harmless and inert.
The men in the dugouts could hear the shells whistle overhead without alarm. But the poison
gas could penetrate where the rifle ball could not. The malignant molecules seemed to search
out their victims. They crept through the crevices of the subterranean shelters. They hunted
for the pinholes in the face masks. They lay in wait for days in the trenches for the soldiers'
return as a cat watches at the hole of a mouse. The cannon ball could be seen and heard. The
poison gas was invisible and inaudible, and sometimes even the chemical sense which nature
has given man for his protection, the sense of smell, failed to give warning of the approach
of the foe.

The smaller the matter that man can deal with the more he can get out of it. So long as man
was dependent for power upon wind and water his working capacity was very limited. But as soon
as he passed over the border line from physics into chemistry and learned how to use the molecule,
his efficiency in work and warfare was multiplied manifold. The molecular bombardment of the
piston by steam or the gases of combustion runs his engines and propels his cars. The first
man who wanted to kill another from a safe distance threw the stone by his arm's strength.
David added to his arm the centrifugal force of a sling when he slew Goliath. The Romans improved
on this by concentrating in a catapult the strength of a score of slaves and casting stone
cannon balls to the top of the city wall. But finally man got closer to nature's secret and
discovered that by loosing a swarm of gaseous molecules he could throw his projectile seventy-five
miles and then by the same force burst it into flying fragments. There is no smaller projectile
than the atom unless our belligerent chemists can find a way of using the electron stream of
the cathode ray. But this so far has figured only in the pages of our scientific romancers
and has not yet appeared on the battlefield. If, however, man could tap the reservoir of sub-atomic
energy he need do no more work and would make no more war, for unlimited powers of construction
and destruction would be at his command. The forces of the infinitesimal are infinite.

The reason why a gas is so active is because it is so egoistic. Psychologically interpreted,
a gas consists of particles having the utmost aversion to one another. Each tries to get as
far away from every other as it can. There is no cohesive force; no attractive impulse; nothing
to draw them together except the all too feeble power of gravitation. The hotter they get the
more they try to disperse and so the gas expands. The gas represents the extreme of individualism
as steel represents the extreme of collectivism. The combination of the two works wonders.
A hot gas in a steel cylinder is the most powerful agency known to man, and by means of it
he accomplishes his greatest achievements in peace or war time.

The projectile is thrown from the gun by the expansive force of the gases released from the
powder and when it reaches its destination it is blown to pieces by the same force. This is
the end of it if it is a shell of the old-fashioned sort, for the gases of combustion mingle
harmlessly with the air of which they are normal constituents. But if it is a poison gas shell
each molecule as it is released goes off straight into the air with a speed twice that of the
cannon ball and carries death with it. A man may be hit by a heavy piece of lead or iron and
still survive, but an unweighable amount of lethal gas may be fatal to him.

Most of the novelties of the war were merely extensions of what was already known. To increase
the caliber of a cannon from 38 to 42 centimeters or its range from 30 to 75 miles does indeed
make necessary a decided change in tactics, but it is not comparable to the revolution effected
by the introduction of new weapons of unprecedented power such as airplanes, submarines, tanks,
high explosives or poison gas. If any army had been as well equipped with these in the beginning
as all armies were at the end it might easily have won the war. That is to say, if the general
staff of any of the powers had had the foresight and confidence to develop and practise these
modes of warfare on a large scale in advance it would have been irresistible against an enemy
unprepared to meet them. But no military genius appeared on either side with sufficient courage
and imagination to work out such schemes in secret before trying them out on a small scale
in the open. Consequently the enemy had fair warning and ample time to learn how to meet them
and methods of defense developed concurrently with methods of attack. For instance, consider
the motor fortresses to which Ludendorff ascribes his defeat. The British first sent out a
few clumsy tanks against the German lines. Then they set about making a lot of stronger and
livelier ones, but by the time these were ready the Germans had field guns to smash them and
chain fences with concrete posts to stop them. On the other hand, if the Germans had followed
up their advantage when they first set the cloud of chlorine floating over the battlefield
of Ypres they might have won the war in the spring of 1915 instead of losing it in the fall
of 1918. For the British were unprepared and unprotected against the silent death that swept
down upon them on the 22nd of April, 1915. What happened then is best told by Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle in his "History of the Great War."

     From the base of the German trenches over a considerable length
     there appeared jets of whitish vapor, which gathered and
     swirled until they settled into a definite low cloud-bank,
     greenish-brown below and yellow above, where it reflected the
     rays of the sinking sun. This ominous bank of vapor, impelled
     by a northern breeze, drifted swiftly across the space which
     separated the two lines. The French troops, staring over the
     top of their parapet at this curious screen which ensured them
     a temporary relief from fire, were observed suddenly to throw
     up their hands, to clutch at their throats, and to fall to the
     ground in the agonies of asphyxiation. Many lay where they had
     fallen, while their comrades, absolutely helpless against this
     diabolical agency, rushed madly out of the mephitic mist and
     made for the rear, over-running the lines of trenches behind
     them. Many of them never halted until they had reached Ypres,
     while others rushed westwards and put the canal between
     themselves and the enemy. The Germans, meanwhile, advanced, and
     took possession of the successive lines of trenches, tenanted
     only by the dead garrisons, whose blackened faces, contorted
     figures, and lips fringed with the blood and foam from their
     bursting lungs, showed the agonies in which they had died. Some
     thousands of stupefied prisoners, eight batteries of French
     field-guns, and four British 4.7's, which had been placed in a
     wood behind the French position, were the trophies won by this
     disgraceful victory.

     Under the shattering blow which they had received, a blow
     particularly demoralizing to African troops, with their fears
     of magic and the unknown, it was impossible to rally them
     effectually until the next day. It is to be remembered in
     explanation of this disorganization that it was the first
     experience of these poison tactics, and that the troops engaged
     received the gas in a very much more severe form than our own
     men on the right of Langemarck. For a time there was a gap five
     miles broad in the front of the position of the Allies, and
     there were many hours during which there was no substantial
     force between the Germans and Ypres. They wasted their time,
     however, in consolidating their ground, and the chance of a
     great coup passed forever. They had sold their souls as
     soldiers, but the Devil's price was a poor one. Had they had a
     corps of cavalry ready, and pushed them through the gap, it
     would have been the most dangerous moment of the war.

