The Germans, I am apt to believe, derive their original from no other people; and are nowise
mixed with different nations arriving amongst them: since anciently those who went in search
of new dwellings, travelled not by land, but were carried in fleets; and into that mighty ocean
so boundless, and, as I may call it, so repugnant and forbidding, ships from our world rarely
enter. Moreover, besides the dangers from a sea tempestuous, horrid and unknown, who would
relinquish Asia, or Africa, or Italy, to repair to Germany, a region hideous and rude, under
a rigorous climate, dismal to behold or to manure; [Footnote: To cultivate.] unless the same
were his native country? In their old ballads (which amongst them are the only sort of registers
and history) they celebrate Tuisto, a God sprung from the earth, and Mannus his son, as the
fathers and founders of the nation. To Mannus they assign three sons, after whose names so
many people are called; the Ingaevones, dwelling next the ocean; the Herminones, in the middle
country; and all the rest, Istaevones. Some, borrowing a warrant from the darkness of antiquity,
maintain that the God had more sons, that thence came more denominations of people, the Marsians,
Cambrians, Suevians, and Vandalians, and that these are the names truly genuine and original.
For the rest, they affirm Germany to be a recent word, lately bestowed: for that those who
first passed the Rhine and expulsed the Gauls, and are now named Tungrians, were then called
Germans: and thus by degrees the name of a tribe prevailed, not that of the nation; so that
by an appellation at first occasioned by terror and conquest, they afterwards chose to be distinguished,
and assuming a name lately invented were universally called Germans.

They have a tradition that Hercules also had been in their country, and him above all other
heroes they extol in their songs when they advance to battle. Amongst them too are found that
kind of verses by the recital of which (by them called Barding) they inspire bravery; nay,
by such chanting itself they divine the success of the approaching fight. For, according to
the different din of the battle, they urge furiously, or shrink timorously. Nor does what they
utter, so much seem to be singing as the voice and exertion of valour. They chiefly study a
tone fierce and harsh, with a broken and unequal murmur, and therefore apply their shields
to their mouths, whence the voice may by rebounding swell with greater fulness and force. Besides
there are some of opinion, that Ulysses, whilst he wandered about in his long and fabulous
voyages, was carried into this ocean and entered Germany, and that by him Asciburgium was founded
and named, a city at this day standing and inhabited upon the bank of the Rhine: nay, that
in the same place was formerly found an altar dedicated to Ulysses, with the name of his father
Laertes added to his own, and that upon the confines of Germany and Rhoetia are still extant
certain monuments and tombs inscribed with Greek characters. Traditions these which I mean
not either to confirm with arguments of my own or to refute. Let every one believe or deny
the same according to his own bent.

For myself, I concur in opinion with such as suppose the people of Germany never to have mingled
by inter-marriages with other nations, but to have remained a people pure, and independent,
and resembling none but themselves. Hence amongst such a mighty multitude of men, the same
make and form is found in all, eyes stern and blue, yellow hair, huge bodies, but vigorous
only in the first onset. Of pains and labour they are not equally patient, nor can they at
all endure thrift and heat. To bear hunger and cold they are hardened by their climate and soil.

Their lands, however somewhat different in aspect, yet taken all together consist of gloomy
forests or nasty marshes; lower and moister towards the confines of Gaul, more mountainous
and windy towards Noricum and Pannonia; very apt to bear grain, but altogether unkindly to
fruit trees; abounding in flocks and herds, but generally small of growth. Nor even in their
oxen is found the usual stateliness, no more than the natural ornaments and grandeur of head.
In the number of their herds they rejoice; and these are their only, these their most desirable
riches. Silver and gold the Gods have denied them, whether in mercy or in wrath, I am unable
to determine. Yet I would not venture to aver that in Germany no vein of gold or silver is
produced; for who has ever searched? For the use and possession, it is certain they care not.
Amongst them indeed are to be seen vessels of silver, such as have been presented to their
Princes and Ambassadors, but holden in no other esteem than vessels made of earth. The Germans
however adjoining to our frontiers value gold and silver for the purposes of commerce, and
are wont to distinguish and prefer certain of our coins. They who live more remote are more
primitive and simple in their dealings, and exchange one commodity for another. The money which
they like is the old and long known, that indented, [Footnote: With milled edges.] or that
impressed with a chariot and two horses. Silver too is what they seek more than gold, from
no fondness or preference, but because small pieces are more ready in purchasing things cheap
and common.

Neither in truth do they abound in iron, as from the fashion of their weapons may be gathered.
Swords they rarely use, or the larger spear. They carry javelins or, in their own language,
framms, pointed with a piece of iron short and narrow, but so sharp and manageable, that with
the same weapon they can fight at a distance or hand to hand, just as need requires. Nay, the
horsemen also are content with a shield and a javelin. The foot throw likewise weapons missive,
each particular is armed with many, and hurls them a mighty space, all naked or only wearing
a light cassock. In their equipment they show no ostentation; only that their shields are diversified
and adorned with curious colours. With coats of mail very few are furnished, and hardly upon
any is seen a headpiece or helmet. Their horses are nowise signal either in fashion or in fleetness;
nor taught to wheel and bound, according to the practice of the Romans: they only move them
forward in a line, or turn them right about, with such compactness and equality that no one
is ever behind the rest. To one who considers the whole it is manifest, that in their foot
their principal strength lies, and therefore they fight intermixed with the horse: for such
is their swiftness as to match and suit with the motions and engagements of the cavalry. So
that the infantry are elected from amongst the most robust of their youth, and placed in front
of the army. The number to be sent is also ascertained, out of every village an hundred, and
by this very name they continue to be called at home, those of the hundred band: thus what
was at first no more than a number, becomes thenceforth a title and distinction of honour.
In arraying their army, they divide the whole into distinct battalions formed sharp in front.
To recoil in battle, provided you return again to the attack, passes with them rather for policy
than fear. Even when the combat is no more than doubtful, they bear away the bodies of their
slain. The most glaring disgrace that can befall them, is to have quitted their shield; nor
to one branded with such ignominy is it lawful to join in their sacrifices, or to enter into
their assemblies; and many who had escaped in the day of battle, have hanged themselves to
put an end to this their infamy.

In the choice of kings they are determined by the splendour of their race, in that of generals
by their bravery. Neither is the power of their kings unbounded or arbitrary: and their generals
procure obedience not so much by the force of their authority as by that of their example,
when they appear enterprising and brave, when they signalise themselves by courage and prowess;
and if they surpass all in admiration and pre-eminence, if they surpass all at the head of
an army. But to none else but the Priests is it allowed to exercise correction, or to inflict
bonds or stripes. Nor when the Priests do this, is the same considered as a punishment, or
arising from the orders of the general, but from the immediate command of the Deity, Him whom
they believe to accompany them in war. They therefore carry with them when going to fight,
certain images and figures taken out of their holy groves. What proves the principal incentive
to their valour is, that it is not at random nor by the fortuitous conflux of men that their
troops and pointed battalions are formed, but by the conjunction of whole families, and tribes
of relations. Moreover, close to the field of battle are lodged all the nearest and most interesting
pledges of nature. Hence they hear the doleful howlings of their wives, hence the cries of
their tender infants. These are to each particular the witnesses whom he most reverences and
dreads; these yield him the praise which affect him most. Their wounds and maims they carry
to their mothers, or to their wives, neither are their mothers or wives shocked in telling,
or in sucking their bleeding sores. [Footnote: Nec illae numerare aut exigere plagas pavent.]
Nay, to their husbands and sons whilst engaged in battle, they administer meat and encouragement.

In history we find, that some armies already yielding and ready to fly, have been by the women
restored, through their inflexible importunity and entreaties, presenting their breasts, and
showing their impending captivity; an evil to the Germans then by far most dreadful when it
befalls their women. So that the spirit of such cities as amongst their hostages are enjoined
to send their damsels of quality, is always engaged more effectually than that of others. They
even believe them endowed with something celestial and the spirit of prophecy. Neither do they
disdain to consult them, nor neglect the responses which they return. In the reign of the deified
Vespasian, we have seen Veleda for a long time, and by many nations, esteemed and adored as
a divinity. In times past they likewise worshipped Aurinia and several more, from no complaisance
or effort of flattery, nor as Deities of their own creating.

Of all the Gods, Mercury is he whom they worship most. To him on certain stated days it is
lawful to offer even human victims. Hercules and Mars they appease with beasts usually allowed
for sacrifice. Some of the Suevians make likewise immolations to Isis, Concerning the cause
and original of this foreign sacrifice I have found small light; unless the figure of her image
formed like a galley, show that such devotion arrived from abroad. For the rest, from the grandeur
and majesty of beings celestial, they judge it altogether unsuitable to hold the Gods enclosed
within walls, or to represent them under any human likeness. They consecrate whole woods and
groves, and by the names of the Gods they call these recesses; divinities these, which only
in contemplation and mental reverence they behold.

To the use of lots and auguries, they are addicted beyond all other nations. Their method of
divining by lots is exceeding simple. From a tree which bears fruit they cut a twig, and divide
it into two small pieces. These they distinguish by so many several marks, and throw them at
random and without order upon a white garment. Then the Priest of the community, if for the
public the lots are consulted, or the father of a family if about a private concern, after
he has solemnly invoked the Gods, with eyes lifted up to heaven, takes up every piece thrice,
and having done thus forms a judgment according to the marks before made. If the chances have
proved forbidding, they are no more consulted upon the same affair during the same day: even
when they are inviting, yet, for confirmation, the faith of auguries too is tried. Yea, here
also is the known practice of divining events from the voices and flight of birds. But to this
nation it is peculiar, to learn presages and admonitions divine from horses also. These are
nourished by the State in the same sacred woods and groves, all milk-white and employed in
no earthly labour. These yoked in the holy chariot, are accompanied by the Priest and the King,
or the Chief of the community, who both carefully observe his actions and neighing. Nor in
any sort of augury is more faith and assurance reposed, not by the populace only, but even
by the nobles, even by the Priests. These account themselves the ministers of the Gods, and
the horses privy to his will. They have likewise another method of divination, whence to learn
the issue of great and mighty wars. From the nation with whom they are at war they contrive,
it avails not how, to gain a captive: him they engage in combat with one selected from amongst
themselves, each armed after the manner of his country, and according as the victory falls
to this or to the other, gather a presage of the whole.

Affairs of smaller moment the chiefs determine: about matters of higher consequence the whole
nation deliberates; yet in such sort, that whatever depends upon the pleasure and decision
of the people, is examined and discussed by the chiefs. Where no accident or emergency intervenes,
they assemble upon stated days, either when the moon changes, or is full: since they believe
such seasons to be the most fortunate for beginning all transactions. Neither in reckoning
of time do they count, like us, the number of days but that of nights. In this style their
ordinances are framed, in this style their diets appointed; and with them the night seems to
lead and govern the day. From their extensive liberty this evil and default flows, that they
meet not at once, nor as men commanded and afraid to disobey; so that often the second day,
nay often the third, is consumed through the slowness of the members in assembling. They sit
down as they list, promiscuously, like a crowd, and all armed. It is by the Priests that silence
is enjoined, and with the power of correction the Priests are then invested. Then the King
or Chief is heard, as are others, each according to his precedence in age, or in nobility,
or in warlike renown, or in eloquence; and the influence of every speaker proceeds rather from
his ability to persuade than from any authority to command. If the proposition displease, they
reject it by an inarticulate murmur: if it be pleasing, they brandish their javelins. The most
honourable manner of signifying their assent, is to express their applause by the sound of
their arms.

