GALARDON (Madame), nee Tiphaine, elder sister of M. Tiphaine, president of the court at Provins.
Married at first to a Guenee, she kept one of the largest retail dry-goods shops in Paris,
on rue Saint-Denis. Towards the end of the year 1815 she sold out to Rogron and went back to
Provins. She had three daughters whom she provided with husbands in the little town: the eldest
married M. Lesourd, king's attorney; the second, M. Martener a physician; the third, M. Auffray
a notary. Finally she herself married for her second husband, M. Galardon, receiver of taxes.
She invariably added to her signature, "nee Tiphaine." She defended Pierrette Lorrain, and
was at outs with the Liberals of Provins, who were induced to persecute Rogron's ward. [Pierrette.]

GALATHIONNE (Prince and Princess), Russians. The prince was one of the lovers of Diane de Maufrigneuse.
[The Secrets of a Princess.] In September, 1815, he protected La Minoret a celebrated opera
dancer, to whose daughter he gave a dowry. [The Middle Classes.] In 1819 Marsay, appearing
in the box of the Princess Galathionne, at the Italiens, had Mme. de Nucingen at his mercy.
[Father Goriot.] In 1821 Lousteau said that the story of the Prince Galathionne's diamonds,
the Maubreuil affair and the Pombreton will, were fruitful newspaper topics. [A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris.] In 1834-35, the princess gave balls which the Comtesse Felix de Vandenesse
attended. [A Daughter of Eve.] About 1840 the prince tried to get Mme. Schontz away from the
Marquis de Rochefide; but she said: "Prince, you are no handsomer, but you are older than Rochefide.
You would beat me, while he is like a father to me." [Beatrix.]

GALOPE-CHOPINE. (See Cibot.)

GAMARD (Sophie), old maid; owner of a house at Tours on rue de la Psalette, which backed the
Saint Gatien church. She let part of it to priests. Here lodged the Abbes Troubert, Chapeloud
and Francois Birotteau. The house had been purchased during the Terror by the father of Mlle.
Gamard, a dealer in wood, a kind of parvenu peasant. After receiving Abbe Birotteau most cordially
she took a disliking to him which was secretly fostered by Troubert, and she finally dispossessed
him, seizing the furniture which he valued so greatly. Mlle. Gamard died in 1826 of a chill.
Troubert circulated the report that Birotteau had caused her death by the sorrow which he had
caused the old maid. [The Vicar of Tours.]

GAMBARA (Paolo), musician, born at Cremona in 1791; son of an instrument-maker, a moderately
good performer and a great composer who was driven from his home by the French and ruined by
the war. These events consigned Paolo Gambara to a wandering existence from the age of ten.
He found little quietude and obtained no congenial situation till about 1813 in Venice. At
this time he put on an opera, "Mahomet," at the Fenice theatre, which failed miserably. Nevertheless
he obtained the hand of Marianina, whom he loved, and with her wandered through Germany to
settle finally in Paris in 1831, in a wretched apartment on rue Froidmanteau. The musician,
an accomplished theorist, could not interpret intelligently any of his remarkable ideas and
he would play to his wondering auditors jumbled compositions which he thought to be sublime
inspirations. However he enthusiastically analyzed "Robert le Diable," having heard Meyerbeer's
masterpiece while a guest of Andrea Marcosini. In 1837 he was reduced to mending musical instruments,
and occasionally he went with his wife to sing duets in the open air on the Champs-Elysees,
to pick up a few sous. Emilio and Massimilla de Varese were deeply sympathetic of the Gambaras,
whom they met in the neighborhood of Faubourg Saint-Honore. Paolo Gambara had no commonsense
except when drunk. He had invented an outlandish instrument which he called the "panharmonicon."
[Gambara.]

GAMBARA (Marianina), Venetian, wife of Paolo Gambara. With him she led a life of almost continual
poverty, and for a long time maintained them at Paris by her needle. Her clients on rue Froidmanteau
were mostly profligate women, who however were kind and generous towards her. From 1831 to
1836 she left her husband, going with a lover, Andrea Marcosini, who abandoned her at the end
of five years to marry a dancer; and in January, 1837, she returned to her husband's home emaciated,
withered and faded, "a sort of nervous skeleton," to resume a life of still greater squalor.
[Gambara.]

GANDOLPHINI (Prince), Neapolitan, former partisan of King Murat. A victim of the last Revolution
he was, in 1823, banished and poverty stricken. At this time he was sixty-five years old, though
he looked eighty. He lived modestly enough with his young wife at Gersau --Lucerne--under the
English name of Lovelace. He also passed for a certain Lamporani, who was at that time a well-known
publisher of Milan. When in the presence of Rodolphe the prince resumed his true self he said:
"I know how to make up. I was an actor during the Empire with Bourrienne, Mme. Under this fictitious
name the author related his own history: Rodolphe was himself and the Prince and Princesse
Gandolphini were the Duc and Duchesse d'Argaiolo. [Albert Savarus.]

GANDOLPHINI (Princesse), nee Francesca Colonna, a Roman of illustrious origin, fourth child
of the Prince and Princess Colonna. While very young she married Prince Gandolphini, one of
the richest landed proprietors of Sicily. Under the name of Miss Lovelace, she met Rodolphe
in Switzerland and he fell in love with her.--Heroine of a novel entitled "L'Ambitieux par
Amour," by Albert Savarus. [Albert Savarus.]

GANIVET, bourgeois of Issoudun, In 1822, in a conversation where Maxence Gilet was discussed,
Commandant Potel threatened to make Ganivet "swallow his tongue without sauce" if he continued
to slander the lover of Flore Brazier. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GANIVET (Mademoiselle), a woman of Issoudun "as ugly as the seven capital sins." Nevertheless
she succeeded in winning a certain Borniche-Hereau who in 1778 left her an income of a thousand
crowns. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GANNERAC, in transfer business at Angouleme. In 1821-22 he was involved in the affair of the
notes endorsed by Rubempre in imitation of the signature of his brother-in-law Sechard. [Lost
Illusions.]

GARANGEOT, in 1845 conducted the orchestra in a theatre run by Felix Gaudissart, succeeding
Sylvain Pons to the baton. Cousin of Heloise Brisetout, who obtained the place for him. [Cousin
Pons.]

GARCELAND, mayor of Provins during the Restoration. Son-in-law of Guepin. Indirectly protected
Pierrette Lorrain from the Liberals of the village led by Maitre Vinet, who acted for Rogron.
[Pierrette.]

GARCENAULT (De), first president of the Court of Besancon in 1834. He got the chapter of the
cathedral to secure Albert Savarus as counsel in a lawsuit between the chapter and the city.
Savarus won the suit. [Albert Savarus.]

GARNERY, one of two special detectives in May, 1830, authorized by the attorney-general, De
Granville, to seize certain letters written to Lucien de Rubempre by Mme. de Serizy, the Duchesse
de Maufrigneuse and Mlle. Clotilde de Grandlieu. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GASNIER, peasant living near Grenoble; born about 1789. Married and the father of several children
whom he loved dearly. Inconsolable at the loss of the eldest. Doctor Benassis, mayor of the
commune, mentioned this parental affection as a rare instance among tillers of the soil. [The
Country Doctor.]

GASSELIN, a Breton born in 1794; servant of the Guenics of Guerande, in 1836, having been in
their employ since he was fifteen. A short, stout fellow with black hair, furrowed face; silent
and slow. He took care of the garden and stables. In 1832 in the foolish venture of Duchesse
de Berry, in which Gasselin took part with the Baron du Guenic and his son Calyste, the faithful
servant received a sabre cut on the shoulder, while shielding the young man. This action seemed
so natural to the family that Gasselin received small thanks. [Beatrix.]

GASTON (Louis), elder natural son of Lady Brandon, born in 1805. Left an orphan in the early
years of the Restoration, he was, though still a child, like a father to his younger brother
Marie Gaston, whom he placed in college at Tours; after which he himself shipped as cabin-boy
on a man-of-war. After being raised to the rank of captain of an American ship and becoming
wealthy in India, he died at Calcutta, during the first part of the reign of Louis Philippe,
as a result of the failure of the "famous Halmer," and just as he was starting back to France,
married and happy. [La Grenadiere. Letters of Two Brides.]

GASTON (Marie), second natural son of Lady Brandon; born in 1810. Educated at the college of
Tours, which he quitted in 1827. Poet; protege of Daniel d'Arthez, who often gave him food
and shelter. In 1831 he met Louise de Chaulieu, the widow of Macumer, at the home of Mme. d'Espard.
He married her in October, 1833, though she was older than he, and he was encumbered with debts
amounting to 30,000 francs. The couple living quietly at Ville-d'Avray, were happy until a
day when the jealous Louise conceived unjustifiable suspicions concerning the fidelity of her
husband; on which account she died after they had been married two years. During these two
years Gaston wrote at least four plays. One of them written in collaboration with his wife
was presented with the greatest success under the names of Nathan and "others." [La Grenadiere.
Letters of Two Brides.] In his early youth Gaston had published, at the expense of his friend
Dorlange, a volume of poetry, "Les Perce-neige," the entire edition of which found its way,
at three sous the volume, to a second-hand book-shop, whence, one fine day, it inundated the
quays from Pont Royal to Pont Marie. [The Member for Arcis.]

GASTON (Madame Louis), an Englishwoman of cold, distant manners; wife of Louis Gaston; probably
married him in India where he died as a result of unfortunate business deals. As a widow she
came to France with two children, where without resource she became a charge to her brother-in-law
who visited and aided her secretly. She lived in Paris on rue de la Ville-Eveque. The visits
made by Marie Gaston were spoken of to his wife who became jealous, not knowing their object.
Mme. Louis Gaston was thus innocently the cause of Mme. Marie Gaston's death. [Letters of Two
Brides.]

GASTON (Madame Marie), born Armande-Louise-Marie de Chaulieu, in 1805. At first destined to
take the veil; educated at the Carmelite convent of Blois with Renee de Maucombe who became
Mme. de l'Estorade. She remained constant in her relations with this faithful friend--at least
by letter--who was a prudent and wise adviser. In 1825 Louise married her professor in Spanish,
the Baron de Macumer, whom she lost in 1829. In 1833 she married the poet Marie Gaston. Both
marriages were sterile. In the first she was adored and believed that she loved; in the second
she was loved as much as she loved, but her insane jealousy, and her horseback rides from Ville-d'Avray
to Verdier's were her undoing, and she died in 1835 of consumption, contracted purposely through
despair at the thought that she had been deceived. After leaving the convent she had lived
successively at the following places: on Faubourg Saint-Germain, Paris, where she saw M. de
Bonald; at Chantepleur, an estate in Burgundy, at La Crampade, in Provence, with Mme. de l'Estorade;
in Italy; at Ville-d'Avray, where she sleeps her last sleep in a park of her own planning.
[Letters of Two Brides.]

GATIENNE, servant of Mme. and Mlle. Bontems, at Bayeux, in 1805. [A Second Home.]

GAUBERT, one of the most illustrious generals of the Republic; first husband of a Mlle. de
Ronquerolles whom he left a widow at the age of twenty, making her his heir. She married again
in 1806, choosing the Comte de Serizy. [A Start in Life.]

GAUBERTIN (Francois), born about 1770; son of the ex-sheriff of Soulanges, Burgundy, before
the Revolution. About 1791, after five years' clerkship to the steward of Mlle. Laguerre at
Aigues, he succeeded to the stewardship. His father having become public prosecutor in the
department, time of the Republic, he was made mayor of Blangy. In 1796 he married the "citizeness"
Isaure Mouchon, by whom he had three children: a son, Claude, and two daughters, Jenny--Mme.
Leclercq--and Eliza. He had also a natural son, Bournier, whom he placed in charge of a local
newspaper. At the death of Mlle. Laguerre, Gaubertin, after twenty-five years of stewardship,
possessed 600,000 francs. He ended by dreaming of acquiring the estate at Aigues; but the Comte
de Montcornet purchased it, retained him in charge, caught him one day in a theft and discharged
him summarily. Gaubertin received at that time sundry lashes with a whip of which he said nothing,
but for which he revenged himself. The old steward became, nevertheless, a person of importance.
In 1820 he was mayor of Ville-aux-Fayes, and supplied one-third of the Paris wood. Being general
agent of this rural industry, he managed the forests, lumber and guards. Gaubertin was related
throughout a whole district, like a "boa-constrictor twisted around a gigantic tree"; the church,
the magistracy, the municipality, the government--all did his bidding. Even the peasantry served
his interests indirectly. When the general, disgusted by the numberless vexations of his estate,
wished to sell the property at Aigues, Gaubertin bought the forests, while his partners, Rigou
and Soudry, acquired the vineyards and other grounds. [The Peasantry.]

GAUBERTIN (Madame), born Isaure Mouchon in 1778. Daughter of a member of the Convention and
friend of Gaubertin senior. Wife of Francois Gaubertin. An affected creature of Ville-aux-Fayes
who played the great lady mightily. [The Peasantry.]

GAUBERTIN (Claude), son of Francois Gaubertin, godson of Mlle. Laguerre, at whose expense he
was educated at Paris. The busiest attorney at Ville-aux-Fayes in 1823. After five years' practice
he spoke of selling his office. He probably became judge. [The Peasantry.]

GAUBERTIN (Jenny), elder daughter of Francois Gaubertin. (See Leclercq, Madame.)

GAUBERTIN (Elisa or Elise), second daughter of Francois Gaubertin. Loved, courted and longed
for since 1819 by the sub-prefect of Ville-aux-Fayes, M. des Lupeaulx--the nephew. M. Lupin,
notary at Soulanges, sought on his part the young girl's hand for his only son Amaury. [The
Peasantry.]

GAUBERTIN-VALLAT (Mademoiselle), old maid, sister of Mme. Sibilet, wife of the clerk of the
court at Ville-aux-Fayes, in 1823. She ran the town's stamp office. [The Peasantry.]

GAUCHER was in 1803 a boy working for Michu. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GAUDET, second clerk in Desroches' law office in 1824. [A Start in Life.]

GAUDIN, chief of squadron in the mounted grenadiers of the Imperial Guard; made baron of the
Empire, with the estate of Wistchnau. Made prisoner by Cossacks at the passage of the Beresina,
he escaped, going to India where he was lost sight of. However he returned to France about
1830, in bad health, but a multi-millionaire. [The Magic Skin.]

GAUDIN (Madame), wife of foregoing, managed the Hotel Saint-Quentin, rue des Cordiers, Paris,
during the Restoration. Among her guests was Raphael de Valentin. Her husband's return in 1830
made her wealthy and a baroness. [The Magic Skin.]

GAUDIN (Pauline), daughter of the foregoing. Was acquainted with, loved, and modestly aided
Raphael de Valentin, a poor lodger at Hotel Saint-Quintin. After the return of her father she
lived with her parents on rue Saint-Lazare. For a long time her whereabouts were unknown to
Raphael who had quitted the hotel abruptly; then he met her again one evening at the Italiens.
They fell into each other's arms, declaring their mutual love. Raphael who also had become
rich resolved to espouse Pauline; but frightened by the shrinkage of the "magic skin" he fled
precipitately and returned to Paris. Pauline hastened after him, only to behold him die upon
her breast in a transport of furious, impotent love. [The Magic Skin.]

GAUDISSART (Jean-Francois), father of Felix Gaudissart. [Cesar Birotteau.]

GAUDISSART (Felix), native of Normandy, born about 1792, a "great" commercial traveler making
a specialty of the hat trade. Known to the Finots, having been in the employ of the father
of Andoche. Also handled all the "articles of Paris." In 1816 he was arrested on the denunciation
of Peyrade--Pere Canquoelle. He had imprudently conversed in the David cafe with a retired
officer concerning a conspiracy against the Bourbons that was about to break out. Thus the
conspiracy was thwarted and two men were sent to the scaffold. Gaudissart being released by
Judge Popinot was ever after grateful to the magistrate and devoted to the interests of his
nephew. When he became minister, Anselme Popinot obtained for Gaudissart license for a large
theatre on the boulevard, which in 1834 aimed to supply the demand for popular opera. This
theatre employed Sylvain Pons, Schmucke, Schwab, Garangeot and Heloise Brisetout, Felix's mistress.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Pons.] "Gaudissart the Great," then a young man, attended
the Birotteau ball. About that time he probably lived on rue des Deux-Ecus, Paris. [Cesar Birotteau.]
During the Restoration, a "pretended florist's agent" sent by Judge Popinot to Comte Octave
de Bauvan, he bought at exorbitant prices the artificial flowers made by Honorine. [Honorine.]
At Vouvray in 1831 this man, so accustomed to fool others, was himself mystified in rather
an amusing manner by a retired dyer, a sort of "country Figaro" named Vernier. A bloodless
duel resulted. After the episode, Gaudissart boasted that the affair had been to his advantage.
He was "in this Saint-Simonian period" the lover of Jenny Courand. [Gaudissart the Great.]

GAUDRON (Abbe), an Auvergnat; vicar and then curate of the church of Saint-Paul-Saint-Louis,
rue Saint-Antoine, Paris, during the Restoration and the Government of July. A peasant filled
with faith, square below and above, a "sacerdotal ox" utterly ignorant of the world and of
literature. Being confessor of Isidore Baudoyer he endeavored in 1824 to further the promotion
of that incapable chief of bureau in the Department of Finance. In the same year he was present
at a dinner at the Comte de Bauvan's when were discussed questions relating to woman. [The
Government Clerks. Honorine.] In 1826 Abbe Gaudron confessed Mme. Clapart and led her into
devout paths; the former Aspasia of the Directory had not confessed for forty years. In February,
1830, the priest obtained the Dauphiness' protection for Oscar Husson, son of Mme. Clapart
by her first husband, and that young man was promoted to a sub-lieutenancy in a regiment where
he had been serving as subaltern. [A Start in Life.]

GAULT, warden of the Conciergerie in May, 1830, when Jacques Collin and Rubempre were imprisoned
there. He was then aged. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GAY, boot-maker in Paris, rue de la Michodiere, in 1821, who furnished the boots for Rubempre
which aroused Matifat's suspicion. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

GAZONAL (Sylvestre-Palafox-Castel), one of the most skillful weavers in the Eastern Pyrenees;
commandant of the National Guard, September, 1795. On a visit to Paris in 1845 for the settlement
of an important lawsuit he sought out his cousin, Leon de Lora, the landscape artist, who in
one day, with Bixiou the caricaturist, showed him the under side of the city, opening up to
him a whole gallery full of "unconscious humorists"--dancers, actresses, police-agents, etc.
Thanks to his two cicerones, he won his lawsuit and returned home. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

GENDRIN, caricaturist, tenant of M. Molineux, Cour Batave, in 1818. According to his landlord,
the artist was a profoundly immoral man who drew caricatures against the government, brought
bad women home with him and made the hall uninhabitable. [Cesar Birotteau.]

GENDRIN, brother-in-law of Gaubertin the steward of Aigues. He also had married a daughter
of Mouchon. [The Peasantry.]

GENDRIN, court counselor of a departmental seat in Burgundy, and a distant relative of President
Gendrin. [The Peasantry.]

GENDRIN, only son of President Gendrin; recorder of mortgages in that sub-prefecture in 1823.
[The Peasantry.]

GENDRIN-WATTEBLED (or Vatebled), born about 1733. General supervisor of streams and forests
at Soulanges, Burgundy, from the reign of Louis XV. Was still in office in 1823. A nonagenarian
he spoke, in his lucid moments, of the jurisdiction of the Marble Table. He reigned over Soulanges
before Mme. Soudry's advent. [The Peasantry.]

GENESTAS (Pierre-Joseph), cavalry officer, born in 1779. At first a regimental lad, then a
soldier. Sub-lieutenant in 1802; officer of the Legion of Honor after the battle of Moskowa;
chief of squadron in 1829. In 1814 he married the widow of his friend Renard, a subaltern.
She died soon after, leaving a child that was legally recognized by Genestas, who entrusted
him, then a young man, to the care of Dr. Benassis. In December, 1829, Genestas was promoted
to be a lieutenant-colonel in a regiment quartered at Poitiers. [The Country Doctor.]

GENESTAS (Madame Judith), Polish Jewess, born in 1795. Married in 1812 after the Sarmatian
custom to her lover Renard, a French quartermaster, who was killed in 1813. Judith gave him
one son, Adrien, and survived the father one year. In extremis she married Genestas a former
lover, who adopted Adrien. [The Country Doctor.]

GENESTAS (Adrien), adopted son of Commandant Genestas, born in 1813 to Judith the Polish Jewess
and Renard who was killed before the birth of his son. Adrien was a living picture of his mother--olive
complexion, beautiful black eyes of a spirituelle sadness, and a head of hair too heavy for
his frail body. When sixteen he seemed but twelve. He had fallen into bad habits, but after
living with Dr. Benassis for eight months, he was cured and became robust. [The Country Doctor.]

GENEVIEVE, an idiotic peasant girl, ugly and comparatively rich. Friend and companion of the
Comtesse de Vandieres, then insane and an inmate of the asylum of Bons-Hommes, near Isle-Adam,
during the Restoration. Jilted by a mason, Dallot, who had promised to marry her, Genevieve
lost what little sense love had aroused in her. [Farewell.]

GENOVESE, tenor at the Fenice theatre, Venice, in 1820. Born at Bergamo in 1797. Pupil of Veluti.
Having long loved La Tinti, he sang outrageously in her presence, so long as she resisted his
advances, but regained all his powers after she yielded to him. [Massimilla Doni.] In the winter
of 1823-24, at the home of Prince Gandolphini, in Geneva, Genovese sang with his mistress,
an exiled Italian prince, and Princess Gandolphini, the famous quartette, "Mi manca la voce."
[Albert Savarus.]

GENTIL, old valet in service of Mme. de Bargeton, during the Restoration. During the summer
of 1821, with Albertine and Lucien de Rubempre, he accompanied his mistress to Paris. [A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris.]

GENTILLET, sold in 1835 an old diligence to Albert Savarus when the latter was leaving Besancon
after the visit on the part of Prince Soderini. [Albert Savarus.]

GENTILLET (Madame), maternal grandmother of Felix Grandet. She died in 1806 leaving considerable
property. In Grandet's "drawing room" at Saumur was a pastel of Mme. Gentillet, representing
her as a shepherdess. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GEORGES, confidential valet of Baron de Nucingen, at Paris, time of Charles X. Knew of his
aged master's love affairs and aided or thwarted him at will. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GERARD (Francois-Pascal-Simon, Baron), celebrated painter--1770-1837 --procured for Joseph
Bridau in 1818 two copies of Louis XVIII.'s portrait which were worth to the beginner, then
very poor, a thousand francs, a tidy sum for the Bridau family. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]
The Parisian salon of Gerard, much sought after, had a rival at Chaussee-d'Antin in that of
Mlle. de Touches. [Beatrix.]

GERARD, adjutant-general of the Seventy-second demi-brigade, commanded by Hulot. A careful
education had developed a superior intellect in Gerard. He was a staunch Republican. Killed
by the Chouan, Pille-Miche, at Vivetiere, December 1799. [The Chouans.]

GERARD (Gregoire), born in 1802, probably in Limousin. Protestant of somewhat uncouth exterior,
son of a journeyman carpenter who died when rather young; godson of F. Grossetete. From the
age of twelve the banker had encouraged him in the study of the exact sciences for which he
had natural aptitude. Studied at Ecole Polytechnique from nineteen to twenty-one; then entered
as a pupil of engineering in the National School of Roads and Bridges, from which he emerged
in 1826 and stood the examinations for ordinary engineer two years later. He was cool-headed
and warm-hearted. He became disgusted with his profession when he ascertained its many limitations,
and he plunged into the July (1830) Revolution. He was probably on the point of adopting the
Saint-Simonian doctrine, when M. Grossetete prevailed upon him to take charge of some important
works on the estate of Mme. Pierre Graslin in Haute-Vienne. Gerard wrought wonders aided by
Fresquin and other capable men. He became mayor of Montegnac in 1838. Mme. Graslin died about
1844. Gerard followed out her final wishes, and lived with her children, assuming guardianship
of Francis Graslin. Three months later, again furthering the desires of the deceased, Gerard
married a native girl, Denise Tascheron, the sister of a man who had been executed in 1829.
[The Country Parson.]

GERARD (Madame Gregoire), wife of foregoing, born Denise Tascheron, of Montegnac, Limousin;
youngest child of a rather large family. She lavished her sisterly affection on her brother,
the condemned Tasheron, visiting him in prison and softening his savage nature. With the aid
of another brother, Louis-Marie, she made away with certain compromising clues of her eldest
brother's crime, and restored the stolen money, afterwards she emigrated to America, where
she became wealthy. Becoming homesick she returned to Montegnac, fifteen years later, where
she recognized Francis Graslin, her brother's natural son, and became a second mother to him
when she married the engineer, Gerard. This marriage of a Protestant with a Catholic took place
in 1844. "In grace, modesty, piety and beauty, Mme. Gerard resembled the heroine of 'Edinburgh
Prison.'" [The Country Parson.]

GERARD (Madame), widow, poor but honest, mother of several grown-up daughters; kept a furnished
hotel on rue Louis-le-Grand, Paris, about the end of the Restoration. Being under obligations
to Suzanne du Val-Noble--Mme. Theodore Gaillard--she sheltered her when the courtesan was driven
away from a fine apartment on rue Saint-Georges, following the ruin and flight of her lover,
Jacques Falleix, the stockbroker. Mme. Gerard was not related to the other Gerards mentioned
above. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GIARDINI, Neapolitan cook somewhat aged. He and his wife ran a restaurant in rue Froidmanteau,
Paris, in 1830-31. He had established, so he said, three restaurants in Italy: at Naples, Parma
and Rome. In the first years of Louis Philippe's reign, his peculiar cookery was the fare of
Paolo Gambara. In 1837 this crank on the subject of special dishes had fallen to the calling
of broken food huckster on rue Froidmanteau. [Gambara.]

GIBOULARD (Gatienne), a very pretty daughter of a wealthy carpenter of Auxerre; vainly desired,
about 1823, by Sarcus for wife, but his father, Sarcus the Rich, would not consent. Later the
social set of Mme. Soudry, the leading one of a neighboring village, dreamed for a moment of
avenging themselves on the people of Aigues by winning over Gatienne Giboulard. She could have
embroiled M. and Mme. Montcornet, and perhaps even compromised Abbe Brossette. [The Peasantry.]

GIGELMI, Italian orchestra conductor, living in Paris with the Gambaras. After the Revolution
of 1830, he dined at Giardini's on rue Froidmanteau. [Gambara.]

GIGONNET. (See Bidault.)

GIGUET (Colonel), native probably of Arcis-sur-Aube, where he lived after retirement. One of
Mme. Marion's brothers. One of the most highly esteemed officers of the Grand Army. Had a fine
sense of honor; was for eleven years merely captain of artillery; chief of battalion in 1813;
major in 1814. On account of devotion to Napoleon he refused to serve the Bourbons after the
first abdication; and he gave such proofs of his fidelity in 1815, that he would have been
exiled had it not been for the Comte de Gondreville, who obtained for him retirement on half-pay
with the rank of colonel. About 1806 he married one of the daughters of a wealthy Hamburg banker,
who gave him three children and died in 1814. Between 1818 and 1825 Giguet lost the two younger
children, a son named Simon alone surviving. A Bonapartist and Liberal, the colonel was, during
the Restoration, president of the committee at Arcis, where he came in touch with Grevin, Beauvisage
and Varlet, notables of the same stamp. He abandoned active politics after his ideas triumphed,
and, during the reign of Louis Philippe, he became a noted horticulturist, the creator of the
famous Giguet rose. Nevertheless the colonel continued to be the god of his sister's very influential
salon where he appeared at the time of the legislative elections of 1839. In the first part
of May of that year the little old man, wonderfully preserved, presided over an electoral convention
at Frappart's, the candidates in the field being his own son, Simon Giguet, Phileas Beauvisage,
and Sallenauve-Dorlange. [The Member for Arcis.]

GIGUET (Colonel), brother of the preceding and of Mme. Marion; was brigadier of gendarmes at
Arcis-sur-Aube in 1803; promoted to a lieutenancy in 1806. As brigadier Giguet was one of the
most experienced men in the service. The commandant of Troyes mentioned him especially to the
two Parisian detectives, Peyrade and Corentin, entrusted with watching the actions of the Simeuses
and the Hauteserres which resulted in the ruin of these young Royalists on account of the pretended
seizure of Gondreville. However, an adroit manoeuvre on the part of Francois Michu at first
prevented Brigadier Giguet from seizing these conspirators whom he had tracked to earth. After
his promotion to lieutenant he succeeded in arresting them. He finally became colonel of the
gendarmes of Troyes, whither Mme. Marion, then Mlle. Giguet, went with him. He died before
his brother and sister, and made her his heir. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

GIGUET (Simon), born during the first Empire, the oldest and only surviving child of Colonel
Giguet of the artillery. In 1814 he lost his mother, the daughter of a rich Hamburg banker,
and in 1826 his maternal grandfather who left him an income of two thousand francs, the German
having favored others of the large family. He did not hope for any further inheritance save
that of his father's sister, Mme. Marion, which had been augmented by the legacy of Colonel
Giguet of the gendarmes. Thus it was that, after studying law with the subprefect Antonin Goulard,
Simon Giguet, deprived of a fortune which at first seemed assured to him, became a simple attorney
in the little town of Arcis, where attorneys are of little service. His aunt's and his father's
position fired him with ambition for a political career. Giguet ogled at the same time for
the hand and dowry of Cecile Beauvisage. Of mediocre ability; upheld the Left Centre, but failed
of election in May, 1839, when he presented himself as candidate for Arcis-sur-Aube. [The Member
for Arcis.]

GILET (Maxence), born in 1789. He passed at Issoudun for the natural son of Lousteau, the sub-delegate.
Others thought him the son of Dr. Rouget, a friend and rival of Lousteau. In short "fortunately
for the child both claimed him"; though he belonged to neither. His true father was found to
be a "charming officer of dragoons in the garrison at Bourges." His mother, the wife of a poor
drunken cobbler of Issoudun, had the marvelous beauty of a Transteverin. Her husband was aware
of his wife's actions and profited by them: through interested motives, Lousteau and Rouget
were allowed to believe whatever they wished about the child's paternity, for which reason
both contributed to the education of Maxence, usually known as Max. In 1806, at the age of
seventeen, Max enlisted in a regiment going to Spain. In 1809 he was left for dead in Portugal
in an English battery; taken by the English and conveyed to the Spanish prison-hulks at Cabrera.
There he remained from 1810 to 1814. When he returned to Issoudun his father and his mother
had both died in the hospital. On the return of Bonaparte, Max served as captain in the Imperial
Guard. During the second Restoration he returned to Issoudun and became leader of the "Knights
of Idlesse" which were addicted to nocturnal escapades more or less agreeable to the inhabitants
of the town. "Max played at Issoudun a part almost identical with that of Smith in 'The Fair
Maid of Perth'; he was the champion of Bonapartism and opposition. They relied upon him, as
the citizens of Perth had relied upon Smith on great occasions." A possible Caesar Borgia on
more extensive ground, Gilet lived very comfortably, although without a personal income. And
that is why Max with certain inherited qualities and defects rashly went to live with his supposed
natural father, Jean-Jacques Rouget, a rich and witless old bachelor who was under the thumb
of a superb servant-mistress, Flore Brazier, known as La Rabouilleuse. After 1816 Gilet lorded
it over the household; the handsome chap had won the heart of Mlle. Brazier. Surrounded by
a sort of staff, Maxence contested the important inheritance of Rouget, maintaining his ground
with marvelous skill against the two lawful heirs, Agathe and Joseph Bridau; and he would have
appropriated it but for the intervention of a third heir, Philippe Bridau. Max was killed in
a duel by Philippe Bridau in the early part of December, 1822. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GILLE, once printer to the Emperor; owner of script letters which Jerome-Nicolas Sechard made
use of in 1819, claiming for them that they were the ancestors of the English type of Didot.
[Lost Illusions.]

GINA, character in "L'Ambitieux par Amour," autobiographical novel by Albert Savarus; a sort
of "ferocious" Sormano. Represented as a young Sicilian girl, fourteen years old, in the services
of the Gandolphinis, political refugees at Gersau, Switzerland, in 1823. So devoted as to pretend
dumbness on occasion, and to wound more or less seriously the hero of the romance, Rodolphe,
who had secretly entered the Gandolphini home. [Albert Savarus.]

GINETTA (La), young Corsican girl. Very small and slender, but no less clever. Mistress of
Theodore Calvi, and an accomplice in the double crime committed by her lover, towards the end
of the Restoration, when she was able on account of her small size to creep down an open chimney
at the widow Pigeau's, and thus to open the house door for Theodore who robbed and murdered
the two inmates, the widow and the servant. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GIRARD, banker and discounter at Paris during the Restoration; perhaps also somewhat of a pawnbroker;
an acquaintance of Esther Gobseck's. Like Palma, Werbrust and Gigonnet, he held a number of
notes signed by Maxime de Trailles; and Gobseck who knew it used them against the count, then
the lover of Mme. de Restaud, when Trailles went to the usurer in rue des Gres and besought
assistance in vain. [Gobseck.]

GIRARD (Mother), who ran a little restaurant at Paris in rue de Tournon, prior to 1838, had
a successor with whom Godefroid promised to board when he was inspecting the left bank of the
Seine, and trying to aid the Bourlac-Mergis. [The Seamy Side of History.]

GIRARDET, attorney at Besancon, between 1830 and 1840. A talkative fellow and adherent of Albert
Savarus, he followed, probably in the latter's interest, the beginning of the Watteville suit.
When Savarus left Besancon suddenly, Girardet tried to straighten out his colleague's affairs,
and advanced him five thousand francs. [Albert Savarus.]

GIRAUD (Leon), was at Paris in 1821 member of the Cenacle of rue des Quatre-Vents, presided
over by Daniel d'Arthez. He represented the philosophical element. His "doctrines" predicted
the end of Christianity and of the family. In 1821 he was also in charge of a "grave and dignified"
opposition journal. He became the head of a moral and political school, whose "sincerity atoned
for its errors." [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] About the same time Giraud frequented
the home of the mother of his friend Joseph Bridau, and was going there at the time when the
painter's elder brother, the Bonapartist Philippe, got into trouble. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]
The Revolution of July opened the political career of Leon Giraud who became master of requests
in 1832, and afterwards councillor of state. In 1845 Giraud was a member of the Chamber, sitting
in the Left Centre. [The Secrets of a Princess. The Unconscious Humorists.]

GIREL, of Troyes. According to Michu, Girel, a Royalist like himself, during the first Revolution,
played the Jacobin in the interest of his fortune. From 1803 to 1806, at any rate, he was in
correspondence with the Strasbourg house of Breintmayer, which dealt with the Simeuse twins
when they were tracked by Bonaparte's police. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GIRODET (Anne-Louis), celebrated painter, born at Montargis, in 1767, died at Paris in 1824.
Under the Empire he was on friendly terms with his colleague, Theodore de Sommervieux. One
day in the latter's studio he greatly admired a portrait of Augustine Guillaume and an interior,
which he advised him, but in vain not to exhibit at the Salon, thinking the two works too true
to nature to be appreciated by the public. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

GIROUD (Abbe), confessor of Rosalie de Watteville at Besancon between 1830 and 1840. [Albert
Savarus.]

GIROUDEAU, born about 1774. Uncle of Andoche Finot; began as simple soldier in the army of
Sambre and Meuse; five years master-at-arms in the First Hussars--army of Italy; charged at
Eylau with Colonel Chabert. He passed into the dragoons of the Imperial Guard, where he was
captain in 1815. The Restoration interrupted his military career. Finot, manager of various
Parisian papers and reviews, put him in charge of the cash and accounts of a little journal
devoted to dramatic news, which he ran from 1821 to 1822. Giroudeau was also editor, and his
duty it was to wage the warfare; beyond that he lived a gay life. Although on the wrong side
of forty and afflicted with catarrh he had for mistress Florentine Cabirolle of the Gaite.
He went with the high-livers--among others with his former mess-mate Philippe Bridau, at whose
wedding with Flore Brazier he was present in 1824. In November, 1825, Frederic Marest gave
a grand breakfast to Desroches' clerks at the Rocher de Cancale, to which Giroudeau was invited.
All spent the evening with Florentine Cabirolle who entertained them royally but involuntarily
got Oscar Husson into trouble. Ex-Captain Giroudeau bore firearms during the "three glorious
days," re-entered the service after the accession of citizen royalty and soon became colonel
then general, 1834-35. At this time he was enabled to satisfy a legitimate resentment against
his former friend, Bridau, and block his advancement. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.
A Start in Life. A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GIVRY, one of several names of the second son of the Duc de Chaulieu, who became by his marriage
with Madeleine de Mortsauf a Lenoncourt-Givry-Chaulieu. [Letters of Two Brides. The Lily of
the Valley. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GOBAIN (Madame Marie), formerly cook to a bishop; lived during the Restoration in Paris on
rue Saint-Maur, Popinot quarter, under very peculiar circumstances. She was in the service
of Octave de Bauvan. Was the maid and housekeeper of Comtesse Honorine when the latter left
home and became a maker of artificial flowers. Mme. Gobain had been secretly engaged by M.
de Bauvan, who through her was enabled to keep watch over his wife. Gobain displayed the greatest
loyalty. At one time the comtesse took the servant's name. [Honorine.]

GOBENHEIM, brother-in-law of Francois and Adolphe Keller, whose name he added to his own. About
1819 in Paris he was at first made receiver in the Cesar Birotteau bankruptcy, but was later
replaced by Camusot. [Cesar Birotteau.] Under Louis Philippe, Gobenheim, as broker for the
Paris prosecuting office, invested the very considerable savings of Mme. Fabien du Ronceret.
[Beatrix.]

GOBENHEIM, nephew of Gobenheim-Keller of Paris; young banker of Havre in 1829; visited the
Mignons, but not as a suitor for the heiress' hand. [Modeste Mignon.]

GOBET (Madame), in 1829 at Havre made shoes for Mme. and Mlle. Mignon. Was scolded by the latter
for lack of style. [Modeste Mignon.]

GOBSECK (Jean-Esther Van), usurer, born in 1740 at Antwerp of a Jewess and a Dutchman. Began
as a cabin-boy. Was only ten years of age when his mother sent him off to the Dutch possessions
in India. There and in America he met distinguished people, also several corsairs; traveled
all over the world and tried many trades. The passion for money took entire hold of him. Finally
he came to Paris which became the centre of his operations, and established himself on rue
des Gres. There Gobseck, like a spider in his web, crushed the pride of Maxime de Trailles
and brought tears to the eyes of Mme. de Restaud and Jean-Joachim Goriot--1819. About this
same time Ferdinand du Tillet sought out the money-lender to make some deals with him, and
spoke of him as "Gobseck the Great, master of Palma, Gigonnet, Werbrust, Keller and Nucingen."
Gobseck went every evening to the Themis cafe to play dominoes with his friend Bidault-Gigonnet.
In December, 1824, he was found there by Elisabeth Baudoyer, whom he promised to aid; indeed,
supported by Mitral, he was able to influence Lupeaulx to put in Isidore Baudoyer as chief
of division succeeding La Billardiere. In 1830, Gobseck, then an octogenarian, died in his
wretched hole on rue des Gres though he was enormously wealthy. Derville received his last
wishes. He had obtained a wife for the lawyer and entrusted him with several confidences. Fifteen
years after the Dutchman's death, he was spoken of on the boulevard as the "Last of the Romans"--among
the old-fashioned money-lenders like Gigonnet, Chaboisseau, and Samanon, against whom Lora
and Bixiou set the modern Vauvinet. [Gobseck. A peculiarity of this family--as well as the
Maranas--that the female side always kept the family name. Thus Sarah Van Gobseck was the grand-niece
of Jean-Esther Van Gobseck. This prostitute, mother of Esther, who was also a courtesan, was
a typical daughter of Paris. She caused the bankruptcy of Roguin, Birotteau's attorney, and
was herself ruined by Maxime de Trailles whom she adored and maintained when he was a page
to Napoleon. She died in a house on Palais-Royal, the victim of a love-mad captain, December,
1818. The affair created a stir. Juan and Francis Diard had something to say about it. Esther's
name lived after her. The Paris of the boulevards from 1824 to 1839 often mentioned her prodigal
and stormy career. [Gobseck. For a long time in Paris she followed her mother's calling, and
having begun it early in life she knew its varied phases. Was nick-named "La Torpille." Was
for some time one of the "rats" of the Royal Academy of Music, and numbered among her protectors,
Lupeaulx. In 1823 her reduced circumstances almost forced her to leave Paris for Issoudun,
where, for a machiavellian purpose, Philippe Bridau would have made her the mistress of Jean-Jacques
Rouget. The affair did not materialize. She went to Mme. Meynardie's house where she remained
till about the end of 1823. One evening, while passing the Porte-Saint-Martin theatre, she
chanced to meet Lucien de Rubempre, and they loved each other at first sight. Their passion
led into many vicissitudes. The poet and the ex-prostitute were rash enough to attend an Opera
ball together in the winter of 1824. Unmasked and insulted Esther fled to rue de Langlade,
where she lived in dire poverty. The dangerous, powerful and mysterious protector of Rubempre,
Jacques Collin, followed her there, lectured her and shaped her future life, making her a Catholic,
educating her carefully and finally installing her with Lucien on rue Taitbout, under the surveillance
of Jacqueline Collin, Paccard and Prudence Servien. She could go out only at night. Nevertheless,
the Baron de Nucingen discovered her and fell madly in love with her. Jacques Collin profited
by the episode; Esther received the banker's attentions, to the enrichment of Lucien. In 1830
she owned a house on rue Saint-Georges which had belonged previously to several celebrated
courtesans; there she received Mme. du Val-Noble, Tullia and Florentine--two dancers, Fanny
Beaupre and Florine--two actresses. Her new position resulted in police intervention on the
part of Louchard, Contenson, Peyrade and Corentin. On May 13, 1830, unable longer to endure
Nucingen, La Torpille swallowed a Javanese poison. She died without knowing that she had fallen
heir to seven millions left by her great-grand-uncle. [Gobseck. The Firm of Nucingen. A Bachelor's
Establishment. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GODAIN, born in 1796, in Burgundy, near Soulanges, Blangy and Ville-aux-Fayes; nephew of one
of the masons who built Mme. Soudry's house. A shiftless farm laborer, exempt from military
duty on account of smallness of stature; was at first the lover, then the husband, of Catherine
Tonsard, whom he married about 1823. [The Peasantry.]

GODAIN (Madame Catherine), the eldest of the legitimate daughters of Tonsard, landlord of the
Grand-I-Vert, situated between Conches and Ville-aux-Fayes in Burgundy. Of coarse beauty and
by nature depraved; a hanger-on at the Tivoli-Socquard, and a devoted sister to Nicolas Tonsard
for whom she tried to obtain Genevieve Niseron. Courted by Charles, valet at Aigues. Feared
by Amaury Lupin. Married Godain one of her lovers, giving a dowry of a thousand francs cunningly
obtained from Mme. Montcornet. [The Peasantry.]

GODARD (Joseph), born in 1798, probably at Paris; related slightly to the Baudoyers through
Mitral. Stunted and puny; fifer in the National Guard; "crank" collector of curios; a virtuous
bachelor living with his sister, a florist on rue Richelieu. Between 1824 and 1825 a possible
assistant in the Department of Finance in the bureau managed by Isidore Baudoyer, whose son-in-law
he dreamed of becoming. An easy mark for Bixiou's practical jokes. With Dutocq he was an unwavering
adherent of the Baudoyers and their relatives the Saillards. [The Government Clerks. The Middle
Classes.]

GODARD (Mademoiselle), sister of the foregoing, and lived on rue Richelieu, Pais, where in
1824 she ran a florist's shop. Mlle. Godard employed Zelie Lorain who became later the wife
of Minard. She received him and Dutocq. [The Government Clerks.]

GODARD (Manon), serving-woman of Mme. de la Chanterie; arrested in 1809, between Alencon and
Mortagne, implicated in the Chauffeurs trial which ended in the capital punishment of Mme.
des Tours-Minieres, daughter of Mme. de la Chanterie. Manon Godard was sentenced by default
to twenty-two years imprisonment, and gave herself up in order not to abandon her mistress.
A long time after the baroness was set free, time of Louis Philippe, Manon was still living
with her, on rue Chanoinesse, in the house which sheltered Alain, Montauran and Godefroid.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

GODDET, retired surgeon-major of the Third regiment of the line; the leading physician of Issoudun
in 1823. His son was one of the "Knights of Idlesse." Goddet junior pretended to pay court
to Mme. Fichet, in order to reach her daughter who had the best dowry in Issoudun. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.]

GODEFROID, known by his given name; born about 1806, probably at Paris; son of a wealthy merchant;
educated at the Liautard Institution; naturally feeble, morally and physically; tried his hand
at and made a failure of: law, governmental work, letters, pleasure, journalism, politics and
marriage. At the close of 1836 he found himself poor and forsaken; thereupon he tried to pay
his debts and live economically. He left Chaussee-d'Antin and took up his abode on rue Chanoinesse,
where he became one of Mme. de la Chanteries' boarders, known as the "Brotherhood of the Consolation."
The recommendation of the Monegods, bankers, led to his admission. Abbe de Veze, Montauran,
Tresnes, Alain, and above all the baroness initiated him, coached him, and entrusted to him
various charitable missions. Among others, about the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe,
he took charge of and relieved the frightful poverty of the Bourlacs and the Mergis, the head
of which as an imperial judge in 1809 had sentenced Mme. de la Chanterie and her daughter.
After he succeeded with this generous undertaking, Godefroid was admitted to the Brotherhood.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

GODENARS (Abbe de), born about 1795; one of the vicars-general of the archbishop of Besancon
between 1830 and 1840. From 1835 on he tried to get a bishopric. One evening he was present
at the aristocratic salon of the Wattevilles, at the time of the sudden flight of Albert Savarus,
caused by their young daughter. [Albert Savarus.]

GODESCHAL (Francois-Claude-Marie), born about 1804. In 1818, at Paris, he was third clerk in
the law office of Derville, rue Vivienne, when the unfortunate Chabert appeared upon the scene.
[Colonel Chabert.] In 1820, then an orphan and poor, he and his sister, the dancer Mariette,
to whom he was devoted, lived on an eighth floor on rue Vielle-du-Temple. He had already given
evidence of a practical temperament, independent and self-seeking, but upright and capable
of generous outbursts. [A Bachelor's Establishment.] In 1822, having risen to second clerk,
he left Maitre Derville to become head-clerk in Desroches' office, who was greatly pleased
with him. Godeschal even undertook to reform Oscar Husson. [A Start in Life.] Six years later,
while still Desroches' head-clerk, he drew up a petition wherein Mme. d'Espard prayed a guardian
for her husband. [The Commission in Lunacy.] Under Louis Philippe he became one of the advocates
of Paris and paid half his fees--1840--proposing to pay the other half with the dowry of Celeste
Colleville, whose hand was refused him, despite the recommendation of Cardot the notary. Was
engaged for Peyrade, in the purchase of a house near the Madeleine. [The Middle Classes.] About
1845 Godeschal was still practicing, and numbered among his clients the Camusots de Marville.
[Cousin Pons.]

GODESCHAL (Marie), born about 1804. She maintained, almost all her life, the nearest and most
tender relations with her brother Godeschal the notary. Without relatives or means, she kept
house with him in 1820, on the eighth floor of a house on rue Vielle-du-Temple, Paris. Ambition
and love for her brother caused her to become a dancer. She had studied her profession from
her tenth year. The famous Vestris instructed her and predicted great things for her. Under
the name of Mariette, she was engaged at the Porte-Saint-Martin and the Royal Academy of Music.
Her success displeased the famous Begrand. In January, 1821, her angelic beauty, maintained
despite her profession, opened to her the doors of the Opera. Then she had lovers. The aristocratic
and elegant Maufrigneuse protected her for several years. Mariette also favored Philippe Bridau
and was the innocent cause of a theft committed by him in order to enable him to contend with
Maufrigneuse. Four months later she went to London, where she won the rich members of the House
of Lords, and returned as premiere to the Academy of Music. She was intimate with Florentine
Cabirolle, who often received in the Marais. There it was that Mariette kept Oscar Husson out
of serious trouble. Mariette attended many festivities. And at the close of the reign of Louis
Philippe, she was still a leading figure in the Opera. [A Bachelor's Establishment. A Start
in Life. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Pons.]

GODIN, under Louis Philippe, a Parisian bourgeois engaged in a lively dispute with a friend
of La Palferine's. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

GODIN (La), peasant woman of Conches, Burgundy, about 1823, whose cow Vermichel threatened
to seize for the Comte de Montcornet. [The Peasantry.]

GODIVET, recorder of registry of Arcis-sur-Aube in 1839. Through the scheming of Pigoult he
was chosen as one of two agents for an electoral meeting called by Simon Giguet, one of the
candidates, and presided over by Phileas Beauvisage. [The Member for Arcis.]

GODOLLO (Comtesse Torna de), probably a Hungarian; police spy reporting to Corentin. Was ordered
to prevent the marriage of Theodose de la Peyrade and Celeste Colleville. To accomplish this
she went to live in the Thuilliers' house, Paris, in 1840, cultivated them and finally ruled
them. She sometimes assumed the name of Mme. Komorn. Her wit and beauty exercised a passing
effect upon Peyrade. [The Middle Classes.]

GOGUELAT, infantryman of the first Empire, entered the Guard in 1812; was decorated by Napoleon
on the battlefield of Valontina; returned during the Restoration to the village of Isere, of
which Benassis was mayor, and became postman. [The Country Doctor.]

GOHIER, goldsmith to the King of France in 1824; supplied Elisabeth Baudoyer with the monstrance
with which she decorated the church of Saint Paul, in order to bring about Isidore Baudoyer's
promotion in office. [The Government Clerks.]

GOMEZ, captain of the "Saint Ferdinand," a Spanish brig which in 1833 conveyed the newly-enriched
Marquis d'Aiglemont from America to France. Gomez was boarded by a Columbian corsair whose
captain, the Parisian, ordered him cast overboard. [A Woman of Thirty.]

GONDRAND (Abbe), confessor, under the Restoration, at Paris, of the Duchesse Antoinette de
Langeais, whose excellent dinners and petty sins he dealt with at his ease in her salon where
Montriveau often found him. [The Thirteen.]

GONDREVILLE (Malin, his real name; more frequently known as the Comte de), born in 1763, probably
at Arcis-sur-Aube. Short and stout; grandson of a mason employed by Marquis de Simeuse in the
building of the Gondreville chateau; only son of the owner of a house at Arcis where dwelt
his friend Grevin in 1839. On the recommendation of Danton, he entered the office of the attorney
at the chatelet, Paris, in 1787. Head clerk for Maitre Bordin in the same city, the same year.
Returned to the country two years later to become a lawyer at Troyes. Became an obscure and
cowardly member of the Convention. Acquired the friendship of Talleyrand and Fouche, in June,
1800, under singular and opportune circumstances. Successively and rapidly became tribune,
councillor of state, count of the Empire--created Comte de Gondreville --and finally senator.
As councillor of state, Gondreville devoted his attention to the preparation of the code. He
cut a dash at Paris. He had purchased one of the finest mansions in Faubourg Saint-Germain
and married the only daughter of Sibuelle, a wealthy contractor of "shady" character whom Gondreville
made co-receiver of Aube, with Marion. The marriage was celebrated during the Directory or
the Consulate. Three children were the result of this union: Charles de Gondreville, Marechale
de Carigliano, Mme. Francois Keller. In his own interest, Malin attached himself to Bonaparte.
Later, in the presence of the Emperor and of Dubois, the prefect of police, Gondreville selfishly
simulated a false generosity and asked that the Hauteserres and Simeuses be striken from the
list of the proscribed. Afterwards they were falsely accused of kidnapping him. As senator
in 1809, Malin gave a grand ball at Paris, when he vainly awaited the Emperor's appearance,
and when Mme. de Lansac reconciled the Soulanges family. Louis XVIII. made him a peer of France.
His wide experience and ownership of many secrets aided Gondreville, whose counsels hindered
Decazes and helped Villele. Charles X. disliked him because he remained too intimate with Talleyrand.
Under Louis Philippe this bond was relaxed. The July monarchy heaped honors upon him by making
him peer once more. One evening in 1833 he met at the home of the Princesse de Cadignan, Henri
de Marsay, the prime minister, who had an inexhaustible fund of political stories, new to all
the company save Gondreville. He was much engrossed with the elections of 1839, and gave his
influence to his grandson, Charles Keller, for Arcis. He concerned himself little with the
candidates, who were finally elected; Dorlange-Sallenauve, Phileas Beauvisage, Trailles and
Giguet. [The Gondreville Mystery. A Start in Life. Domestic Peace. The Member for Arcis.]

GONDREVILLE (Comtesse Malin de), born Sibuelle; wife of foregoing; person whose complete insignificance
was manifest at the great ball given in Paris by the count in 1809. [Domestic Peace.]

GONDREVILLE (Charles de), son of the preceding, and sub-lieutenant of dragoons in 1818. Young
and wealthy, he died in the Spanish campaign of 1823. His death caused great sorrow to his
mistress, Mme. Colleville. [The Middle Classes.]

GONDRIN, born in 1774, in the department of Isere. Conscripted in 1792 and put in the artillery.
Was in the Italian and Egyptian campaigns under Bonaparte, as a private, and returned east
after the Peace of Amiens. Enrolled, during the Empire, in the pontoon corps of the Guard,
he marched through Germany and Russia; was in the battle at Beresina aiding to build the bridge
by which the remnant of the army escaped; with forty-one comrades, received the praise of General
Eble who singled him out particularly. Returned to Wilna, as the only survivor of the corps
after the death of Eble and in the beginning of the Restoration. Unable to read or write, deaf
and decrepit, Gondrin forlornly left Paris which had treated him inhospitably, and returned
to the village in Dauphine, where the mayor, Dr. Benassis, gave him work as a ditcher and continued
to aid him in 1829. [The Country Doctor.]

GONDRIN (Abbe), young Parisian priest about the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe. Exquisite
and eloquent. Knew the Thuilliers. [The Middle Classes.]

GONDUREAU, assumed name of Bibi-Lupin.

GONORE (La), widow of Moses the Jew, chief of the southern rouleurs, in May, 1830; mistress
of Dannepont the thief and assassin; ran a house of ill-repute on rue Sainte-Barbe for Mme.
Nourrisson. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GORDES (Mademoiselle de), at the head of an aristocratic salon of Alencon, about 1816, while
her father, the aged Marquis de Gordes, was still living with her. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GORENFLOT, mason of Vendome, who walled up the closet concealing Mme. de Merret's lover, the
Spaniard Bagos de Feredia. [La Grande Breteche.]

GORENFLOT, probably posed for Quasimodo of Hugo's "Notre-Dame." Decrepit, misshapen, deaf,
diminutive, he lived in Paris about 1839, and was organ-blower and bell-ringer in the church
of Saint-Louis en l'Ile. He also acted as messenger in the confidential financial correspondence
between Bricheteau and Dorlange-Sallenauve. [The Member for Arcis.]

GORIOT,* (Jean-Joachim), born about 1750; started as a porter in the grain market. During the
first Revolution, although he had received no education, but having a trader's instinct, he
began the manufacture of vermicelli and made a fortune out of it. Thrift and fortune favored
him under the Terror. He passed for a bold citizen and fierce patriot. Prosperity enabled him
to marry from choice the only daughter of a wealthy farmer of Brie, who died young and adored.
Upon their two children, Anastasie and Delphine, he lavished all the tenderness of which their
mother had been the recipient, spoiling them with fine things. Goriot's griefs date from the
day he set each up in housekeeping in magnificent fashion on Chaussee-d'Antin. Far from being
grateful for his pecuniary sacrifices, his sons-in-law, Restaud and Nucingen, and his daughters
themselves, were ashamed of his bourgeois exterior. In 1813 he had retired saddened and impoverished
to the Vauquer boarding-house on rue Nueve-Sainte-Genevieve. The quarrels of his daughters
and the greedy demands for money increased and in 1819 followed him thither. Almost all the
guests of the house and especially Mme. Vauquer herself--whose ambitious designs upon him had
come to naught--united in persecuting Goriot, now well-nigh poverty-stricken. He found an agreeable
respite when he acted as a go-between for the illicit love affair of Mme. de Nucingen and Rastignac,
his fellow-lodger. The financial distress of Mme. de Restaud, Trailles' victim, gave Goriot
the finishing blow. He was compelled to give up the final and most precious bit of his silver
plate, and beg the assistance of Gobseck the usurer. He was crushed. A serious attack of apoplexy
carried him off. He died on rue Neuve-Sainte-Genevieve. Rastignac watched over him, and Bianchon,
then an interne, attended him. Only two men, Christophe, Mme. Vauquer's servant, and Rastignac,
followed the remains to Saint-Etienne du Mont and to Pere-Lachaise. The empty carriages of
his daughters followed as far as the cemetery. [Father Goriot.]

*   Two Parisian theatres and five authors have depicted Goriot's life
    on the stage; March 6, 1835, at the Vaudeville, Ancelot and Paul
    Dupont; the same year, the month following, at the Varietes,
    Theaulon, Alexis de Comberousse and Jaime Pere. Also the Boeuf
    Gras of a carnival in a succeeding year bore the name of Goriot.

GORITZA (Princesse), a charming Hungarian, celebrated for her beauty, towards the end of Louis
XV.'s reign, and to whom the youthful Chevalier de Valois became so attached that he came near
fighting on her account with M. de Lauzun; nor could he ever speak of her without emotion.
From 1816 to 1830, the Alencon aristocracy were given glimpses of the princess's portrait,
which adorned the chevalier's gold snuff-box. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GORJU (Madame), wife of the mayor of Sancerre, in 1836, and mother of a daughter "whose figure
threatened to change with her first child," and who sometimes came with her to the receptions
of Mme. de la Baudraye, the "Muse of the Department." One evening, in the fall of 1836, she
heard Lousteau reading ironically fragments of "Olympia." [The Muse of the Department.]

GOTHARD, born in 1788; lived about 1803 in Arcis-sur-Aube, where his courage and address obtained
for him the place of groom to Laurence de Cinq-Cygne. Devoted servant of the countess; he was
one of the principals acquitted in the trial which ended with the execution of Michu. [The
Gondreville Mystery.] Gothard never left the service of the Cinq-Cygne family. Thirty-six years
later he was their steward. With his brother-in-law, Poupard, the Arcis tavern-keeper, he electioneered
for his masters. [The Member for Arcis.]

GOUJET (Abbe), cure of Cinq-Cygne, Aube, about 1792, discovered for the son of Beauvisage the
farmer, who were still good Catholics, the Greek name of Phileas, one of the few saints not
abolished by the new regime. [The Member for Arcis.] Former abbe of the Minimes, and a friend
of Hauteserre. Was the tutor of Adrien and Robert Hauteserre; enjoyed a game of boston with
their parents--1803. His political prudence sometimes led him to censure the audacity of their
kinswoman, Mlle. de Cinq-Cygne. Nevertheless, he held his own with the persecutor of the house,
Corentin the police-agent; and attended Michu when that victim of a remarkable trial, known
as "the abduction of Gondreville," went to the scaffold. During the Restoration he became Bishop
of Troyes. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GOUJET (Mademoiselle), sister of the foregoing; good-natured old maid, ugly and parsimonious,
who lived with her brother. Almost every evening she played boston at the Hauteserres and was
terrified by Corentin's visits. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GOULARD, mayor of Cinq-Cygne, Aube, in 1803. Tall, stout and miserly; married a wealthy tradeswoman
of Troyes, whose property, augmented by all the lands of the rich abbey of Valdes-Preux, adjoined
Cinq-Cygne. Goulard lived in the old abbey, which was very near the chateau of Cinq-Cygne.
Despite his revolutionary proclivities, he closed his eyes to the actions of the Hauteserres
and Simeuses who were Royalist plotters. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GOULARD (Antonin), native of Arcis, like Simon Giguet. Born about 1807; son of the former huntsman
of the Simeuse family, enriched by the purchase of public lands. (See preceding biography.)
Early left motherless, he came to Arcis to live with his father, who abandoned the abbey of
Valpreux. Went to the Imperial lyceum, where he had Simon Giguet for school-mate, whom he afterwards
met again on the benches of the Law school at Paris. Obtained, through Gondreville, the Cross
of the Legion of Honor. The royal government of 1830 opened up for him a career in the public
service. In 1839 he became sub-prefect for Arcis-sur-Aube, during the electoral period. The
delegate, Trailles, satisfied Antonin's rancor against Giguet: his official recommendations
caused the latter's defeat. Both the would-be prefect and the sub-prefect vainly sought the
hand of Cecile Beauvisage. Goulard cultivated the society of officialdom: Marest, Vinet, Martener,
Michu. [The Member for Arcis.]

GOUNOD, nephew of Vatel, keeper of the Montcornet estate at Aigues, Burgundy. About 1823 he
probably became assistant to the head-keeper, Michaud. [The Peasantry.]

GOUPIL (Jean-Sebastien-Marie), born in 1802; a sort of humpless hunchback; son of a well-to-do
farmer. After running through with his inheritance, in Paris, he became head-clerk of the notary
Cremiere-Dionis, of Nemours--1829. On account of Francois Minoret-Levrault, he annoyed in many
ways, even anonymously, Ursule Mirouet, after the death of Dr. Minoret. Afterwards he repented
his actions, repaid their instigator, and succeeded the notary, Cremiere-Dionis. Thanks to
his wit, he became honorable, straightforward and completely transformed. Once established,
Goupil married Mlle. Massin, eldest daughter of Massin-Levrault junior, clerk to the justice
of the peace at Nemours. She was homely, had a dowry of 80,000 francs, and gave him rickety,
dropsical children. Goupil took part in the "three glorious days" and had obtained a July decoration.
He was very proud of the ribbon. [Ursule Mirouet.]

GOURAUD (General, Baron), born in 1782, probably at Provins. Under the Empire he commanded
the Second regiment of hussars, which gave him his rank. The Restoration caused his impoverished
years at Provins. He mixed in politics and the opposition there, sought the hand and above
all the dowry of Sylvie Rogron, persecuted the apparent heiress of the old maid, Mlle. Pierrette
Lorrain--1827--and, seconded by Vinet the attorney, reaped in July, 1830, the fruits of his
cunning liberalism. Thanks to Vinet, the ambitious parvenu, Gouraud married, in spite of his
gray hair and stout frame, a girl of twenty-five, Mlle. Matifat, of the well-known drug-firm
of rue des Lombards, who brought with her fifty thousand crowns. Titles, offices and emoluments
now flowed in rapidly. He resumed the service, became general, commanded a division near the
capital and obtained a peerage. His conduct during the ministry of Casimir Perier was thus
rewarded. Futhermore he received the grand ribbon of the Legion of Honor, after having stormed
the barricades of Saint-Merri, and was "delighted to thrash the bourgeois who had been an eye-sore
to him" for fifteen years. [Pierrette.] About 1845 he had stock in Gaudissart's theatre. [Cousin
Pons.]

GOURDON, the elder, husband of the only daugher of the old head-keeper of streams and forests,
Gendrin-Wattebled; was in 1823 physician at Soulanges and attended Michaud. Nevertheless he
went among the best people of Soulanges, headed by Mme. Soudry, who regarded him in the light
of an unknown and neglected savant, when he was but a parrot of Buffon and Cuvier, a simple
collector and taxidermist. [The Peasantry.]

GOURDON, the younger, brother of the preceding; wrote the poem of "La Bilboqueide" published
by Bournier. Married the niece and only heiress of Abbe Tupin, cure of Soulanges, where he
himself had been in 1823 clerk for Sarcus. He was wealthier than the justice. Mme. Soudry and
her set gave admiring welcome to the poet, preferring him to Lamartine, with whose works they
slowly became acquainted. [The Peasantry.]

GOUSSARD (Laurent) was a member of the revolutionary municipality of Arcis-sur-Aube. Particular
friend of Danton, he made use of the tribune's influence to save the head of the ex-superior
of the Ursulines at Arcis, Mother Marie des Anges, whose gratitude for his generous and skillful
action caused substantial enrichment to this purchaser of the grounds of the convent, which
was sold as "public land." Thus it was that forty years afterwards this adroit Liberal owned
several mills on the river Aube, and was still at the head of the advanced Left in that district.
The various candidates for deputy in the spring of 1839, Keller, Giguet, Beauvisage, Dorlange-Sallenauve,
and the government agent, Trailles, treated Goussard with the consideration he deserved. [The
Member for Arcis.]

GRADOS had in his hands the notes of Vergniaud the herder. By means of funds from Derville
the lawyer, Grados was paid in 1818 by Colonel Chabert. [Colonel Chabert.]

GRAFF (Johann), brother of a tailor established in Paris under Louis Philippe. Came himself
to Paris after having been head-waiter in the hotel of Gedeon Brunner at Frankfort; and ran
the Hotel du Rhin in rue du Mail where Frederic Brunner and Wilhelm Schwab alighted penniless
in 1835. The landlord obtained small positions for the two young men; for the former with Keller;
for the latter with his brother the tailor. [Cousin Pons.]

GRAFF (Wolfgang), brother of the foregoing, and rich tailor of Paris, at whose shop in 1838
Lisbeth Fischer fitted out Wenceslas Steinbock. On his brother's recommendation, he employed
Wilhelm Schwab, and, six years later, took him into the family by giving him Emilie Graff in
marriage. [Cousin Betty. Cousin Pons.]

GRANCEY (Abbe de), born in 1764. Took orders because of a disapointment in love; became priest
in 1786, and cure in 1788. A distinguished prelate who refused three bishoprics in order not
to leave Besancon. In 1834 he became vicar-general of that diocese. The abbe had a handsome
head. He gave free vent to cutting speeches. Was acquainted with Albert Savarus whom he liked
and aided. A frequenter of the Watteville salon he found out and rebuked Rosalie, the singular
and determined enemy of the advocate. He also intervened between Madame and Mademoiselle de
Watteville. He died at the end of the winter of 1836-37. [Albert Savarus.]

GRANCOUR (Abbe de), one of the vicars-general of the bishopric of Limoges, about the end of
the Restoration; and the physical antithesis of the other vicar, the attenuated and moody Abbe
Dutheil whose lofty and independent liberal doctrines he, with cowardly caution, secretly shared.
Grancour frequented the Graslin salon and doubtless knew of the Tascheron tragedy. [The Country
Parson.]

GRANDEMAIN was in 1822 at Paris clerk for Desroches. [A Start in Life.]

GRANDET (Felix), of Saumur, born between 1745 and 1749. Well-to-do master-cooper, passably
educated. In the first years of the Republic he married the daughter of a rich lumber merchant,
by whom he had in 1796 one child, Eugenie. With their united capital, he bought at a bargain
the best vineyards about Saumur, in addition to an old abbey and several farms. Under the Consulate
he became successively member of the district government and mayor of Saumur. But the Empire,
which supposed him to be a Jacobin, retired him from the latter office, although he was the
town's largest tax-payer. Under the Restoration the despotism of his extraordinary avarice
disturbed the peace of his family. His younger brother, Guillaume, failed and killed himself,
leaving in Felix's hands the settlement of his affairs, and sending to him his son Charles,
who had hastened to Saumur, not knowing his father's ruin. Eugenie loved her cousin and combated
her father's niggardliness, which looked after his own interests to the neglect of his brother.
The struggle between Eugenie and her father broke Mme. Grandet's heart. The phases of the terrible
duel were violent and numerous. Felix Grandet's passion resorted to stratagem and stubborn
force. Death alone could settle with this domestic tyrant. In 1827, an octogenarian and worth
seventeen millions, he was carried off by a stroke of paralysis. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GRANDET (Madame Felix), wife of the preceding; born about 1770; daughter of a rich lumber merchant,
M. de la Gaudiniere; married in the beginning of the Republic, and gave birth to one child,
Eugenie, in 1796. In 1806 she added considerably to the combined wealth of the family through
two large inheritances--from her mother and M. de la Bertelliere, her maternal grandfather.
A devout, shrinking, insignificant creature, bowed beneath the domestic yoke, Mme. Grandet
never left Saumur, where she died in October, 1822, of lung trouble, aggravated by grief at
her daughter's rebellion and her husband's severity. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GRANDET (Victor-Ange-Guillaume), younger brother of Felix Grandet; became rich at Paris in
wine-dealing. In 1815 before the battle of Waterloo, Frederic de Nucingen bought of him one
hundred and fifty thousand bottles of champagne at thirty sous, and sold them at six francs;
the allies drank them during the invasion--1817-19. [The Firm of Nucingen.] The beginning of
the Restoration favored Guillaume. He was the husband of a charming woman, the natural daughter
of a great lord, who died young after giving him a child. Was colonel of the National Guard,
judge of the Court of Commerce, governor of one of the arrondissements of Paris and deputy.
Saumur accused him of aspiring still higher and wishing to become the father-in-law of a petty
duchess of the imperial court. The bankruptcy of Maitre Roguin was the partial cause of the
ruin of Guillaume, who blew out his brains to avoid disgrace, in November, 1819. In his last
requests, Guillaume implored his elder brother to care for Charles whom the suicide had rendered
doubly an orphan. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GRANDET, (Charles), only lawful child of the foregoing; nephew of Felix Grandet; born in 1797.
He led at first the gay life of a young gallant, and maintained relations with a certain Annette,
a married woman of good society. The tragic death of his father in November, 1819, astounded
him and led him to Saumur. He thought himself in love with his cousin Eugenie to whom he swore
fidelity. Shortly thereafter he left for India, where he took the name of Carl Sepherd to escape
the consequences of treasonable actions. He returned to France in 1827 enormously wealthy,
debarked at Bordeaux in June of that year, accompanying the Aubrions whose daughter Mathilde
he married, and allowed Eugenie Grandet to complete the settlement with the creditors of his
father. [Eugenie Grandet.] By his marriage he became Comte d'Aubrion. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

GRANDET (Eugenie).* (See Bonfons, Eugenie Cruchot de.)

*   The incidents of her life have been dramatized by Bayard for the
    Gymnase-Dramatique, under the title of "The Miser's Daughter."

GRANDLIEU (Comtesse de), related to the Herouvilles; lived in the first part of the seventeenth
century; probably ancestress of the Grandlieus, well known in France two centuries later. [The
Hated Son.]

GRANDLIEU (Mademoiselle), under the first Empire married an imperial chamberlain, perhaps also
the prefect of Orne, and was received, alone, in Alencon among the exclusive and aristocratic
set lorded over by the Esgrignons. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GRANDLIEU (Duc Ferdinand de), born about 1773; may have descended from the Comtesse de Grandlieu
who lived early in the seventeenth century, and consequently connected with the old and worthy
nobility of the Duchy of Brittany whose device was "Caveo non timeo." At the end of the eighteenth
and the first half of the nineteenth centuries, Ferdinand de Grandlieu was the head of the
elder branch, wealthy and ducal, of the house of Grandlieu. Under the Consulate and the Empire
his high and assured rank enabled him to intercede with Talleyrand in behalf of M. d'Hauteserre
and M. de Simeuse, compromised in the fictitious abduction of Malin de Gondreville. Grandlieu
by his marriage with an Ajuda of the elder branch, connected with the Barganzas and of Portuguese
descent, had several daughters, the eldest of whom assumed the veil in 1822. His other daughters
were Clotilde-Frederique, born in 1802; Josephine the third; Sabine born in 1809; Marie-Athenais,
born about 1820. An uncle by marriage of Mme. de Langeais, he had at Paris, in Faubourg Saint-Germain,
a hotel where, during the reign of Louis XVIII., the Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry, the Vidame
de Pamiers and the Duc de Navarreins assembled to consider a startling escapade of Antoinette
de Langeais. At least ten years later Grandlieu availed himself of his intimate friend Henri
de Chaulieu and also of Corentin--Saint-Denis--in order to stay the suit against Lucien de
Rubempre which was about to compromise his daughter Clotilde-Frederique. [The Gondreville Mystery.
Wife of Ferdinand de Grandlieu, and mother of several daughters. Of sedentary habits, proud,
pious, good-hearted and beautiful, she wielded in Paris during the Restoration a sort of supremacy
over the Faubourg Saint-Germain. The second and the next to the youngest of her children gave
her much anxiety. Combating the hostility of those about her she welcomed Rubempre, the suitor
of her daughter Clotilde-Frederique--1829-30. The unfortunate results of the marriage of her
other daughter Sabine, Baronne Calyste du Guenic, occupied Mme. de Grandlieu's attention in
1837, and she succeeded in reconciling the young couple, with the assistance of Abbe Brossette,
Maxime de Trailles, and La Palferine. Her religious scruples had made her halt a moment; but
they fell like her political fidelity, and, with Mmes. d'Espard, de Listomere and des Touches,
she tacitly recognized the bourgeois royalty, a few years after a new reign began, and re-opened
the doors of her salon. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Beatrix. A Daughter of Eve.]

GRANDLIEU (Mademoiselle de), eldest daughter of the Duc and Duchesse de Grandlieu, took the
veil in 1822. [A Bachelor's Establishment. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GRANDLIEU (Clotilde-Frederique de), born in 1802; second daughter of the Duc and Duchesse de
Grandlieu; a long, flat creature, the caricature of her mother. She had no consent save that
of her mother when she fell in love with and wished to marry the ambitious Lucien de Rubempre
in the spring of 1830. She saw him for the last time on the road to Italy in the forest of
Fontainbleu near Bouron and under very painful circumstances the young man was arrested before
her very eyes. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GRANDLIEU (Josephine de). (See Ajuda-Pinto, Marquise Miguel d'.)

GRANDLIEU (Sabine de). (See Guenic, Baronne Calyste du.)

GRANDLIEU (Marie-Athenais de). (See Grandlieu, Vicomtesse Juste de.)

GRANDLIEU (Vicomtesse de), sister of Comte de Born; descended more directly than the duke from
the countess of the seventeenth century. From 1813, the time of her husband's death, the head
of the younger Grandlieu house whose device was "Grands faits, grand lieu." Mother of Camille
and of Juste de Grandlieu, and the mother-in-law of Ernest de Restaud. Returned to France with
Louis XVIII. At first she lived on royal bounty, but afterwards regained a considerable portion
of her property through the efforts of Maitre Derville, about the beginning of the Restoration.
She was very grateful to the lawyer, who also took her part against the Legion of Honor, was
admitted to her confidential circle and told her the secrets of the Restaud household, one
evening in the winter of 1830 when Ernest de Restaud, son of the Comtesse Anastasie, was paying
court to Camille whom he finally married. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Colonel Chabert.
Gobseck.]

GRANDLIEU (Camille de). (See Restaud, Comtesse Ernest de.)

GRANDLIEU (Vicomte Juste de), son of Vicomtesse de Grandlieu; brother of Comtesse Ernest de
Restaud; cousin and afterwards husband of Marie-Athenais de Grandlieu, combining by this marriage
the fortunes of the two houses of Grandlieu and obtaining the title of duke. [Scenes from a
Courtesan's Life. Gobseck.]

GRANDLIEU (Vicomtesse Juste de), born about 1820, Marie-Athenais de Grandlieu; last daughter
of Duc and Duchesse de Grandlieu; married to her cousin, the Vicomte Juste de Grandlieu. She
received at Paris in the first days of the July government, a young married woman like herself,
Mme. Felix de Vandenesse, then in the midst of a flirtation with Raoul Nathan. [Scenes from
a Courtesan's Life. Gobseck. A Daughter of Eve.]

GRANET, deputy-mayor of the second arrondissement of Paris, in 1818, under La Billardiere.
With his homely wife he was invited to the Birotteau ball. [Cesar Birotteau.]

GRANET, one of the leading men of Besancon, under Louis Philippe. In gratitude for a favor
done him by Albert Savarus he nominated the latter for deputy. [Albert Savarus.]

GRANSON (Madame), poor widow of a lieutenant-colonel of artillery killed at Jena, by whom she
had a son, Athanase. From 1816 she lived at No. 8 rue du Bercail in Alencon, where the benevolence
of a distant relative, Mme. du Bousquier, put in her charge the treasury of a maternal society
against infanticide, and brought her into contact, under peculiar circumstances, with the woman
who afterwards became Mme. Theodore Gaillard. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GRANSON (Athanase), son of the preceding; born in 1793; subordinate in the mayor's office at
Alencon in charge of registry. A sort of poet, liberal in politics and filled with ambition;
weary of poverty and overflowing with grandiose sentiments. In 1816 he loved, with a passion
that his commonsense combated, Mme. du Bousquier, then Mlle. Cormon, his senior by more than
seventeen years. In 1816 the marriage dreaded by him took place. He could not brook the blow
and drowned himself in the Sarthe. He was mourned only by his mother and Suzanne du Val-Noble.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.] Nevertheless, eight years after it was said of him: "The Athanase
Gransons must die, withered up, like the grains which fall on barren rock." [The Government
Clerks.]

GRANVILLE (Comte de), had a defective civil status, the orthography of the name varying frequently
through the insertion of the letter "d" between the "n" and "v." In 1805 at an advanced age
he lived at Bayeux, where he was probably born. His father was a president of the Norman Parliament.
At Bayeux the Comte married his son to the wealthy Angelique Bontems. [A Second Home.]

GRANVILLE (Vicomte de), son of Comte de Granville, and comte upon his father's death; born
about 1779; a magistrate through family tradition. Under the guidance of Cambaceres he passed
through all the administrative and judicial grades. He studied with Maitre Bordin, defended
Michu in the trial resulting from the "Gondreville Mystery," and learned officially and officiously
of one of its results a short time after his marriage with a young girl of Bayeux, a rich heiress
and the acquirer of extensive public lands. Paris was generally the theatre for the brilliant
career of Maitre Granville who, during the Empire, left the Augustin quai where he had lived
to take up his abode with his wife on the ground-floor of a mansion in the Marais, between
rue Vielle-du-Temple and rue Nueve-Saint-Francois. He became successively advocate-general
at the court of the Seine, and president of one of its chambers. At this time a domestic drama
was being enacted in his life. Hampered in his open and broad-minded nature by the bigotry
of Mme. de Granville, he sought domestic happiness outside his home, though he already had
a family of four children. He had met Caroline Crochard on rue du Tourniquet-Saint-Jean. He
installed her on rue Taitbout and found in this relation, though it was of brief duration,
the happiness vainly sought in his proper home. Granville screened this fleeting joy under
the name of Roger. A daughter Eugenie, and a son Charles, were born of this adulterous union
which was ended by the desertion of Mlle. Crochard and the misconduct of Charles. Until the
death of Mme. Crochard, the mother of Caroline, Granville was able to keep up appearances before
his wife. Thus it happened that he accompanied her to the country, Seine-et-Oise, when he assisted
M. d'Albon and M. de Sucy. The remainder of Granville's life, after his wife and his mistress
left him, was passed in comparative solitude in the society of intimate friends like Octave
de Bauvan and Serizy. Hard work and honors partially consoled him. His request as attorney-general
caused the reinstatement of Cesar Birotteau, one of the tenants at No. 397 rue Saint-Honore.
He and his wife had been invited to the famous ball given by Birotteau more than three years
previously. As attorney-general of the Court of Cassation, Granville secretly protected Rubempre
during the poet's famous trial, thus drawing upon himself the powerful affection of Jacques
Collin, counterbalanced by the enmity of Amelie Camusot. The Revolution of July upheld Granville's
high rank. He was peer of France under the new regime, owning and occupying a small mansion
on rue Saint-Lazare, or traveling in Italy. At this time he was one of Dr. Bianchon's patients.
[The Gondreville Mystery. A Second Home. Farewell. She was born at Bayeux in 1787, and received
from her mother a very bigoted education. At the beginning of the Empire she married the son
of one of the neighbors of the family, then Vicomte and later Comte de Granville; and, under
the influence of Abbe Fontanon, she maintained at Paris the manners and customs of an extreme
devotee. She thus evoked the infidelity of her husband who had begun by simply neglecting her.
Of her four children she retained charge of the education of her two daughters. She broke off
entirely from her husband when she discovered the existence of her rival, Mlle. de Bellefeuille--Caroline
Crochard--and returned to Bayeux to end her days, remaining to the last the austere, stingy
sanctified creature who had formerly been scandalized by the openness of the affair of Montriveau
and Mme. de Langeais. She died in 1822. [A Second Home. The Thirteen. A Daughter of Eve.]

GRANVILLE (Vicomte de), elder son of the preceding. Was reared by his father. In 1828 he was
deputy-attorney at Limoges, where he afterwards became advocate-general. He fell in love with
Veronique Graslin, but incurred her secret disfavor by his proceedings against the assassin
Tascheron. The vicomte had a career almost identical with that of his father. In 1833 he was
made first president at Orleans, and in 1844 attorney-general. Later near Limoges he came suddenly
upon a scene which moved him deeply: the public confession of Veronique Graslin. The vicomte
had unknowingly been the executioner of the chatelaine of Montegnac. [A Second Home. King's
attorney at Paris from May, 1830. Three years later he still held this office, when he informed
his father of the arrest of a thief named Charles Crochard, who was the count's natural son.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. A Second Home.]

GRANVILLE (Marie-Angelique de). (See Vandenesse, Comtesse Felix de.)

GRANVILLE (Marie-Eugenie de). (See Tillet, Madame Ferdinand du.)

GRASLIN (Pierre), born in 1775. An Auvergnat, compatriot and friend of Sauviat, whose daughter
Veronique he married in 1822. He began as a bank-clerk with Grosstete & Perret, a first-class
firm of the town. A man of business and a hard worker he became successor to his employers.
His fortune, increased by lucky speculations with Brezac, enabled him to buy one of the finest
places in the chief city of Haute-Vienne. But he was not able to win his wife's heart. His
physical unattractiveness, added to by his carelessness and grinding avarice, were complicated
by a domestic tyranny which soon showed itself. Thus it was that he was only the legal father
of a son named Francis, but he was ignorant of this fact, for, in the capacity of juror in
the Court of Assizes dealing with the fate of Tascheron, the real father of the child, he urged
but in vain the acquittal of the prisoner. Two years after the boy's birth and the execution
of the mother's lover, in April, 1831, Pierre Graslin died of weakness and grief. The July
Revolution suddenly breaking forth had shaken his financial standing, which was regained only
with an effort. It was at the time when he had brought Montegnac from the Navarreins. [The
Country Parson.]

GRASLIN (Madame Pierre), wife of preceding; born Veronique Sauviat, at Limoges in May, 1802;
beautiful in spite of traces of small-pox; had had the spoiled though simple childhood of an
only daughter. When twenty she married Pierre Graslin. Soon after marriage her ingenuous nature,
romantic and refined, suffered in secret from the harsh tyranny of the man whose name she bore.
Veronique, however, held aloof from the gallants who frequented her salon, especially the Vicomte
de Granville. She had become the secret mistress of J.-F. Tascheron, a porcelain worker. She
was on the point of eloping with him when a crime committed by him was discovered. Mme. Graslin
suffered the most poignant anguish, giving birth to the child of the condemned man at the very
moment when the father was led to execution. She inflicted upon herself the bitterest flagellations.
She could devote herself more freely to penance after her husband's death, which occurred two
years later. She left Limoges for Montegnac, where she made herself truly famous by charitable
works on a huge scale. The sudden return of the sister of her lover dealt her the final blow.
Still she had energy enough to bring about the union of Denise Tascheron and Gregoire Gerard,
gave her son into their keeping, left important bequests destined to keep alive her memory,
and died during the summer of 1844 after confessing in public in the presence of Bianchon,
Dutheil, Granville, Mme. Sauviat and Bonnet who were all seized with admiration and tenderness
for her. [The Country Parson.]

GRASLIN (Francis), born at Limoges in August, 1829. Only child of Veronique Graslin, legal
son of Pierre Graslin, but natural son of J.-F. Tascheron. He lost his legal father two years
after his birth, and his mother thirteen years later. His tutor M. Ruffin, his maternal grandmother
Mme. Sauviat, and above all the Gregoire Gerards watched over his boyhood at Montegnac. [The
Country Parson.]

GRASSET, bailiff and successor of Louchard. On the demand of Lisbeth Fischer and by Rivet's
advice, in 1838, he arrested W. Steinbock in Paris and took him to Clichy prison. [Cousin Betty.]

GRASSINS (Des), ex-quartermaster of the Guard, seriously wounded at Austerlitz, pensioned and
decorated. Time of Louis XVIII. he became the richest banker in Saumur, which he left for Paris
where he located with the purpose of settling the unfortunate affairs of the suicide, Guillaume
Grandet and where he was later made a deputy. Although the father of a family he conceived
a passion for Florine, a pretty actress of the Theatre du Madame,* to the havoc of his fortune.
[Eugenie Grandet.]

*   The name of this theatre was changed, in 1830, to
    Gymnase-Dramatique.

GRASSINS (Madame des), born about 1780; wife of foregoing, giving him two children; spent most
of her life at Saumur. Her husband's position and sundry physical charms which she was able
to preserve till nearly her fortieth year enabled her to shine somewhat in society. With the
Cruchots she often visited the Grandets, and, like the family of the President de Bonfons,
she dreamed of mating Eugenie with her son Adolphe. The dissipated life of her husband at Paris
and the combination of the Cruchots upset her plans. Nor was she able to do much for her daughter.
However, deprived of much of her property and making the best of things, Mme. des Grassins
continued unaided the management of the bank at Saumur. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GRASSINS (Adolphe des), born in 1797, son of M. and Mme. des Grassins; studied law at Paris
where he lived in a lavish way. A caller at the Nucingens where he met Charles Grandet. Returned
to Saumur in 1819 and vainly courted Eugenie Grandet. Finally he returned to Paris and rejoined
his father whose wild life he imitated. [Eugenie Grandet.]

GRASSOU (Pierre), born at Fougeres, Brittany, in 1795. Son of a Vendean peasant and militant
Royalist. Removing at an early age to Paris he began as clerk to a paint-dealer who was from
Mayenne and a distant relative of the Orgemonts. A mistaken idea led him toward art. His Breton
stubbornness led him successively to the studios of Servin, Schinner and Sommervieux. He afterwards
studied, but fruitlessly, the works of Granet and Drolling; then he completed his art studies
with Duval-Lecamus. Grassou profited nothing by his work with these masters, nor did his acquaintance
with Lora or Joseph Bridau assist him. Though he could understand and admire he lacked the
creative faculty and the skill in execution. For this reason Grassou, usually called Fougeres
by his comrades, obtained their warm support and succeeded in getting admission into the Salon
of 1829, for his "Toilet of a Condemned Chouan," a very mediocre painting palpably along the
lines of Gerard Dow. The work obtained for him from Charles X. the cross of the Legion of Honor.
At last his canvasses found purchasers. Elie Magus gave him an order for pictures after the
Flemish school, which he sold to Vervelle as works of Dow or Teniers. At that time Grassou
lived at No. 2 rue de Navarin. He became the son-in-law of Vervelle, in 1832, marrying Virginie
Vervelle, the heiress of the family, who brought him a dowry of one hundred thousand francs,
as well as country and city property. His determined mediocrity opened the doors of the Academy
to him and made him an officer in the Legion of Honor in 1830, and major of a battalion in
the National Guard after the riots of May 12. He was adored by the middle classes, becoming
their accredited artist. Painted portraits of all the members of the Crevel and Thuillier families,
and also of the director of the theatre who preceded Gaudissart. Left many frightful and ridiculous
daubs, one of which found its way into Topinard's humble home. Wife of the preceding whom she
married in Paris in 1832. There is a portrait of her painted in this same year before her marriage,
which at first was a colorless study by Grassou, but was dexterously retouched by Joseph Bridau.
[Pierre Grassou.]

GRAVELOT brothers, lumber-merchants of Paris, who purchased in 1823 the forests of Aigues,
the Burgundy estate of General de Montcornet. [The Peasantry.]

GRAVIER, paymaster-general of the army during the first Empire, and interested at that time
in large Spanish affairs with certain commanding officers. Upon the return of the Bourbons
he purchased at twenty thousand francs of La Baudraye the office of tax-receiver for Sancerres,
which office he still held about 1836. With the Abbe Duret and others he frequented the home
of Mme. Dinah de la Baudraye. He was little, fat and common. His court made little way with
the baroness, despite his talent and his worldly-wise ways of a bachelor. He sang ballads,
told stories, and displayed pseudo-rare autographs. [The Muse of the Department.]

GRAVIER, of Grenoble; head of a family; father-in-law of a notary; chief of division of the
prefecture of Isere in 1829. Knew Genestas and recommended to him Dr. Benassis, the mayor of
the village of which he himself was one of the benefactors, as the one to attend Adrien Genestas-Renard.
[The Country Doctor.]

GRENIER, known as Fleur-de-Genet; deserter from the Sixty-ninth demi-brigade; chauffeur executed
in 1809. [The Seamy Side of History.]

GRENOUVILLE, proprietor of a large and splendid notion store in Boulevard des Italiens, Paris,
about 1840; a customer of the Bijous, embroiderers also in business at Paris. At this time
an ardent admirer of Mlle. Olympe Bijou, former mistress of Baron Hulot and Idamore Chardin.
He married her and gave an income to her parents. [Cousin Betty.]

GRENOUVILLE (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Olympe Bijou, about 1824. In the middle of
the reign of Louis Philippe she lived in Paris near La Courtille, in rue Saint-Maur-du-Temple.
Was a pretty but poor embroiderer surrounded by a numerous and poverty-stricken family when
Josepha Mirah obtained for her old Baron Hulot and a shop. Having abandoned Hulot for Idamore
Chardin, who left her, Olympe married Grenouville and became a well-known tradeswoman. [Cousin
Betty.]

GRENVILLE (Arthur-Ormond, Lord), wealthy Englishman; was being treated at Montpellier for lung
trouble when the rupture of the treaty of peace of Amiens confined him to Tours. About 1814
he fell in love with the Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont, whom he afterwards met elsewhere. Posing
as a physician he attended her in an illness and succeeded in curing her. He visited her also
in Paris, finally dying to save her honor, after suffering his fingers to be crushed in a door--1823.
[A Woman of Thirty.]

GREVIN of Arcis, Aube, began life in the same way as his compatriot and intimate friend Malin
de Gondreville. In 1787, he was second clerk to Maitre Bordin, attorney of the Chatelet, Paris.
Returned to Champagne at the outbreak of the Revolution. There he received the successive protection
of Danton, Bonaparte and Gondreville. By virtue of them he became an oracle to the Liberals,
was enabled to marry Mlle. Varlet, the only daughter of the best physician of the city, to
purchase a notary's practice, and to become wealthy. A level-headed man, Grevin often advised
Gondreville, and he directed the mysterious and fictitious abduction--1803 and the years following.
Of his union with Mlle. Varlet, who died rather young, one daughter was born, Severine, who
became Mme. Phileas Beauvisage. In his old age he devoted a great deal of attention to his
children and their brilliant future, especially during the election of May, 1839. [A Start
in Life. The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

GREVIN (Madame), wife of foregoing; born Varlet; daughter of the best doctor of Arcis-sur-Aube;
sister of another Varlet, a doctor in the same town; mother of Mme. Severine Phileas Beauvisage.
With Mme. Marion she was more or less implicated in the Gondreville mystery. She died rather
young. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

GREVIN, corsair, who served under Admiral de Simeuse in the Indies. In 1816, paralyzed and
deaf, he lived with his granddaughter, Mme. Lardot, a laundress of Alencon, who employed Cesarine
and Suzanne and was patronized by the Chevalier de Valois. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GRIBEAUCOURT (Mademoiselle de), old maid of Saumur and friend of the Cruchots during the Restoration.
[Eugenie Grandet.]

GRIFFITH (Miss), born in 1787; Scotch woman, daughter of a minister in straitened circumstances;
under the Restoration she was governess of Louise de Chaulieu, whose love she won by reason
of her kindliness and penetration. [Letters of Two Brides.]

GRIGNAULT (Sophie). (See Nathan, Mme. Raoul.)

GRIMBERT, held, in 1819, at Ruffec, Charente, the office of the Royal Couriers. At that time
he received from Mlles. Laure and Agathe de Rastignac, a considerable sum of money addressed
to their brother Eugene, at the Pension Vauquer, Paris. [Father Goriot.]

GRIMONT, born about 1786; a priest of some capability; cure of Guerande, Brittany. In 1836,
a constant visitor at the Guenics, he exerted a tardily acquired influence over Felicite des
Touches, whose disappointments in love he fathomed and whom he determined to turn towards a
religious life. Her conversion gave Grimont the vicar-generalship of the diocese of Nantes.
[Beatrix.]

GRIMPEL, physician at Paris in the Pantheon quarter, time of Louis XVIII. Among his patients
was Mme. Vauquer, who sent for him to attend Vautrin when the latter was overcome by a narcotic
treacherously administered by Mlle. Michonneau. [Father Goriot.]

GRINDOT, French architect in the first half of the nineteenth century; won the Roman prize
in 1814. His talent, which met the approval of the Academy, was heartily recognized by the
masses of Paris. About the end of 1818 Cesar Birotteau gave him carte-blanche in the remodeling
of his apartments on rue Saint-Honore, and invited him to his ball. Matifat, between the years
1821 and 1822, commissioned him to ornament the suite of Mme. Raoul Nathan on rue de Bondy.
The Comte de Serizy employed him likewise in 1822 in the restoration of his chateau of Presles
near Beaumont-sur-Oise. About 1829 Grindot embellished a little house on rue Saint-Georges
where successively dwelt Suzanne Gaillard and Esther van Gobseck. Time of Louis Philippe, Arthur
de Rochefide, and M. and Mme. Fabien du Ronceret gave him contracts. His decline and that of
the monarchy coincided. He was no longer in vogue during the July government. On motion of
Chaffaroux he received twenty-five thousand francs for the decoration of four rooms of Thuillier's.
Lastly Crevel, an imitator and grinder, utilized Grindot on rue des Saussaies, rue du Dauphin
and rue Barbet-de-Jouy for his official and secret habitations. Montcornet, mayor of that commune
arranged a marriage between the old soldier and the orphan daughter of one of his farmers who
brought him three acres of vineyards. [The Peasantry.]

GROS (Antoine-Jean), celebrated painter born in Paris in 1771, drowned himself June, 1835.
Was the teacher of Joseph Bridau and, despite his parsimonious habits, supplied materials--about
1818--to the future painter of "The Venetian Senator and the Courtesan" enabling him to obtain
five thousand francs from a double government position. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GROSLIER, police commissioner of Arcis-sur-Aube at the beginning of the electoral campaign
of 1839. [The Member for Arcis.]

GROSMORT, small boy of Alencon in 1816. Left the town in that year and went to Prebaudet, an
estate of Mme. du Bousquier, to tell her of Troisville's arrival. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

GROSS-NARP (Comte de), son-in-law, no doubt fictitious, of a very great lady, invented and
represented by Jacqueline Collin to serve the menaced interests of Jacques Collin in Paris
about the end of the Restoration. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

GROSSTETE (F.), director, with Perret, of a Limoges banking-house, during the Empire and Restoration.
His clerk and successor was Pierre Graslin. Retired from business, a married man, wealthy,
devoted to horticulture, he spent much of his time in the fields in the outskirts of Limoges.
Endowed with a superior intellect, he seemed to understand Veronique Graslin, whose society
he sought and whose secrets he tried to fathom. He introduced his godson, Gregoire Gerard,
to her. [The Country Parson.]

GROSSTETE (Madame F.), wife of preceding; a person of some importance in Limoges, time of the
Restoration. [The Country Parson.]

GROSSTETE, younger brother of F. Grosstete. Receiver-general at Bourges during the Restoration.
He had a large fortune which enabled his daughter Anna to wed a Fontaine about 1823. [The Country
Parson. The Muse of the Department.]

GROZIER (Abbe) was chosen, in the early part of the Restoration, to arbitrate the dispute of
two proof-readers--one of whom was Saint-Simon --over Chinese paper. He proved that the Chinese
make their paper from bamboo. [Lost Illusions.] He was librarian of the Arsenal at Paris. Was
tutor of the Marquis d'Espard. Was learned in the history and manners of China. Taught this
knowledge to his pupil. [The Commission in Lunacy.]*

*   Abbe Grozier, or Crozier (Jean Baptiste-Gabriel-Alexandre), born
    March 1, 1743, at Saint-Omer, died December 8, 1823, at Paris;
    collaborator of the "Literary Year" with Freron and Geoffroy, and
    author of a "General History of China"--Paris 1777-1784, 12 vols.

GRUGET (Madame Etienne), born in the latter part of the eighteenth century. About 1820, lace-maker
at No. 12 rue des Enfants-Rouges, Paris, where she concealed and cared for Gratien Bourignard,
the lover of her daughter Ida, who drowned herself. Bourignard was the father of Mme. Jules
Desmarets. [The Thirteen.] Becoming a nurse about the end of 1824, Mme. Gruget attended the
division-chief, La Billiardiere, in his final sickness. [The Government Clerks.] In 1828 she
followed the same profession for ten sous a day, including board. At that time she attended
the last illness of Comtesse Flore Philippe de Brambourg, on rue Chaussee-d'Antin, before the
invalid was removed to the Dubois hospital. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

GRUGET (Ida), daughter of the preceding. About 1820 was a corset-fitter at No. 14 rue de la
Corderie-du-Temple, Paris; employed by Mme. Meynardie. She was also the mistress of Gatien
Bourignard. Passionately jealous, she rashly made a scene in the home of Jules Desmarets, her
lover's son-in-law. Then she drowned herself, in a fit of despair, and was buried in a little
cemetery of a village of Seine-et-Oise. [The Thirteen.]

GUA SAINT-CYR (Madame du), in spite of the improbability aroused on account of her age, passed
for a time, in 1799, as the mother of Alphonse de Montauran. She had been married and was then
a widow; Gua was not her true name. She was the last mistress of Charette and, being still
young, took his place with the youthful Alphonse de Montauran. She displayed a savage jealousy
for Mlle. de Verneuil. One of the first Vendean sallies of 1799, planned by Mme. du Gua, was
unsuccessful and absurd. The old "mare of Charette" caused the coach between Mayenne and Fougeres
to be waylaid; but the money stolen was that which was being sent her by her mother. [The Chouans.]

GUA SAINT-CYR (Du), name assumed in Brittany, in 1799, by Alphonse de Montauran, the Chouan
leader. [The Chouans.]

GUA SAINT-CYR (Monsieur and Madame du), son and mother; rightful bearers of the name were murdered,
with the courier, in November by the Chouans. [The Chouans.]

GUDIN (Abbe), born about 1759; was one of the Chouan leaders in 1799. He was a formidable fellow,
one of the Jesuits stubborn enough, perhaps devoted enough, to oppose upon French soil the
proscriptive edict of 1793. This firebrand of Western conflict fell, slain by the Blues, almost
under the eyes of his patriot nephew, the sub-lieutenant, Gudin. [The Chouans.]

GUDIN, nephew of the preceding, and nevertheless a patriot conscript from Fougeres, Brittany,
during the campaign of 1799; successively corporal and sub-lieutenant. The former grade was
obtained through Hulot. Was the superior of Beau-Pied. Gudin was killed near Fougeres by Marie
de Verneuil, who had assumed the attire of her husband, Alphonse de Montauran. [The Chouans.]

GUENEE (Madame). (See Galardon, Madame.)

GUENIC (Gaudebert-Calyste-Charles, Baron du), born in 1763. Head of a Breton house of very
ancient founding, he justified throughout his long life the device upon his coat-of-arms, which
read: "Fac!" Without hope of reward he constantly defended, in Vendee and Brittany, his God
and his king by service as private soldier and captain, with Charette, Chatelineau, La Rochejacquelein,
Elbee, Bonchamp and the Prince of Loudon. Was one of the commanders of the campaign of 1799
when he bore the name of "L'Intime," and was, with Bauvan, a witness to the marriage in extremis
of Alphonse de Montauran and Marie de Verneuil. Three years later he went to Ireland, where
he married Miss Fanny O'Brien, of a noble family of that country. Events of 1814 permitted
his return to Guerande, Loire-Inferieure, where his house, though impoverished, wielded great
influence. In recognition of his unfaltering devotion to the Royalist cause, M. du Guenic received
only the Cross of Saint-Louis. Incapable of protesting, he intrepidly defended his town against
the battalions of General Travot in the following year. The final Chouan insurrection, that
of 1832, called him to arms once again. Accompanied by Calyste, his only son, and a servant,
Gasselin, he returned to Guerande, lived there for some years, despite his numerous wounds,
and died suddenly, at the age of seventy-four, in 1837. [The Chouans. Beatrix.]

GUENIC (Baronne du), wife of the preceding; native of Ireland; born Fanny O'Brien, about 1793,
of aristocratic lineage. Poor and surrounded by wealthy relatives, beautiful and distinguished,
she married, in 1813, Baron du Guenic, following him the succeeding year to Guerande and devoting
her life and youth to him. She bore one son, Calyste, to whom she was more like an elder sister.
She watched closely the two mistresses of the young man, and finally understood Felicite des
Touches; but she always was in a tremor on account of Beatrix de Rochefide, even after the
marriage of Calyste, which took place in the year of the baron's death. [Beatrix.]

GUENIC (Gaudebert-Calyste-Louis du), probably born in 1815, at Guerande, Loire-Inferieure;
only son of the foregoing, by whom he was adored, and to whose dual influence he was subject.
He was the physical and moral replica of his mother. His father wished to make him a gentleman
of the old school. In 1832 he fought for the heir of the Bourbons. He had other aspirations
which he was able to satisfy at the home of an illustrious chatelaine of the vicinity, Mlle.
Felicite des Touches. The chevalier was much enamored of the celebrated authoress, who had
great influence over him, did not accept him and turned him over to Mme. de Rochefide. Beatrix
played with the heir of the house of Guenic the same ill-starred comedy carried through by
Antoinette de Langeais with regard to Montriveau. Calyste married Mlle. Sabine de Grandlieu,
and took the title of baron after his father's death. He lived in Paris on Faubourg Saint-Germain,
and between 1838 and 1840 was acquainted with Georges de Maufrigneuse, Savinien de Portenduere,
the Rhetores, the Lenoncourt-Chaulieus and Mme. de Rochefide--whose lover he finally became.
The intervention of the Duchesse de Grandlieu put an end to this love affair. [Beatrix.]

GUENIC (Madame Calyste du), born Sabine de Grandlieu; wife of the preceding, whom she married
about 1837. Nearly three years later she was in danger of dying upon hearing, at her confinement,
that she had a fortunate rival in the person of Beatrix de Rochefide. [Beatrix.]

GUENIC (Zephirine du) born in 1756 at Guerande; lived almost all her life with her younger
brother, the Baron du Guenic, whose ideas, principles and opinions she shared. She dreamed
of a rehabilitation of her improverished house, and pushed her economy to the point of refusng
to undergo an operation for cataract. For a long time she wished that Mlle. Charlotte de Kergarouet
might become her niece by marriage. [Beatrix.]

GUEPIN, of Provins, located in Paris. He had at the "Trois Quenouilles" one of the largest
draper's shops on rue Saint-Denis. His head-clerk was his compatriot, Jerome-Denis Rogron.
In 1815, he turned over his business to his grandson and returned to Provins, where his family
formed a clan. Later Rogron retired also and rejoined him there. [Pierrette.]

GUERBET, wealthy farmer in the country near Ville-aux-Fayes; married, in the last of the eighteenth
or first of the nineteenth century, the only daughter of Mouchon junior, then postmaster of
Conches, Burgundy. After the death of his father-in-law, about 1817, he succeeded to the office.
[The Peasantry.]

GUERBET, brother of the foregoing, and related to the Gaubertins and Gendrins. Rich tax-collector
of Soulanges, Burgundy. Stout, dumpy fellow with a butter face, wig, earrings, and immense
collars; given to pomology; was the wit of the village and one of the lions of Mme. Soudry's
salon. [The Peasantry.]

GUERBET, circuit judge of Ville-aux-Fayes, Burgundy, in 1823. Like his uncle, the postmaster,
and his father, the tax-collector, he was entirely devoted to Gaubertin. [The Peasantry.]

GUILLAUME, in the course of, or at the end of the eighteenth century, began as clerk to Chevrel,
draper, on rue Saint-Denis, Paris, "at the Sign of the Cat and Racket"; afterwards became his
son-in-law, succeeded him, became wealthy and retired, during the first Empire, after marrying
off his two daughters, Virginie and Augustine, in the same day. He became member of the Consultation
Committee for the uniforming of the troops, changed his home, living in a house of his own
on rue du Colombier, was intimate with the Ragons and the Birotteaus, being invited with his
wife to the ball given by the latter. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket. Cesar Birotteau.]

GUILLAUME (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Chevrel; cousin of Mme. Roguin; a stiff-necked,
middle-class woman, who was scandalized by the marriage of her second daughter, Augustine,
with Theodore de Sommervieux. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

GUILLAUME, servant of Marquis d'Aiglemont in 1823. [A Woman of Thirty.]

GUINARD (Abbe), priest of Sancerre in 1836. [The Muse of the Department.]

GYAS (Marquise de), lived at Bordeaux during the Restoration; gave much thought to marrying
off her daughter, and, being intimate with Mme. Evangelista, felt hurt when Natalie Evangelista
married Paul de Manerville in 1822. However, the Marquis de Gyas was one of the witnesses at
the wedding. [A Marriage Settlement.]

                                  H

HABERT (Abbe), vicar at Provins under the Restoration; a stern, ambitious prelate, a source
of annoyance to Vinet; dreamed of marrying his sister Celeste to Jerome-Denis Rogron. [Pierrette.]

HABERT (Celeste), sister of the preceding; born about 1797; managed a girls' boarding-school
at Provins, in the closing years of Charles X.'s reign. Visited at the Rogrons. Gouraud and
Vinet shunned her. [Pierrette.]

HADOT (Madame), who lived at La Charite, Nievre, in 1836, was mistaken for Mme. Barthelemy-Hadot,
the French novelist, whose name was mentioned at Mme. de la Baudraye's, near Sancerre. [The
Muse of the Department.]

HALGA (Chevalier du), naval officer greatly esteemed by Suffren and Portenduere; captain of
Kergarouet's flagship; lover of that admiral's wife, whom he survived. He served in the Indian
and Russian waters, refused to take up arms against France, and returned with a petty pension
after the emigration. Knew Richelieu intimately. Remained in Paris the inseparable friend and
adherent of Kergarouet. Called near the Madeleine upon the Mesdames de Rouville, other protegees
of his patron. The death of Louis XVIII. took Halga back to Guerande, his native town, where
he became mayor and was still living in 1836. He was well acquainted with the Guenics and made
himself ridiculous by his fancied ailments as well as by his solicitude for his dog, Thisbe.
[The Purse. Beatrix.]

HALPERSOHN (Moses), a refugee Polish Jew, excellent physician, communist, very eccentric, avaricious,
friend of Lelewel the insurrectionist. Time of Louis Philippe at Paris, he attended Vanda de
Mergi, given up by several doctors, and also diagnosed her complicated disease. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

HALPERTIUS, assumed name of Jacques Collin.

HANNEQUIN (Leopold), Parisian notary. The "Revue de l'Est," a paper published at Besancon,
time of Louis Philippe, gave, in an autobiographical novel of its editor-in-chief, Albert Savarus,
entitled "L'Ambitieux par Amour," the story of the boyhood of Leopold Hannequin, the author's
inseparable friend. Savarus told of their joint travels, and of the quiet preparation made
by his friend for a notaryship during the time known as the Restoration. During the monarchy
of the barricades Hannequin remained the steadfast friend of Savarus, being one of the first
to find his hiding-place. At that time the notary had an office in Paris. He married there
to advantage, became head of a family, and deputy-mayor of a precinct, and obtained the decoration
for a wound received at the cloister of Saint-Merri. He was welcomed and made use of in the
Faubourg Saint-Germain, the Saint-Georges quarter and the Marais. At the Grandlieus' request
he drew up the marriage settlement of their daughter Sabine with Calyste du Guenic--1837. Four
years later he consulted with old Marshal Hulot, on rue du Montparnasse, regarding his will
in behalf of Mlle. Fischer and Mme. Steinbock. About 1845, at the request of Heloise Brisetout,
he drew up Sylvain Pons' will. [Albert Savarus. Beatrix. Cousin Betty. Cousin Pons.]

HAPPE & DUNCKER, celebrated bankers of Amsterdam, amateur art-collectors, and snobbish parvenus,
bought, in 1813, the fine gallery of Balthazar Claes, paying one hundred thousand ducats for
it. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

HAUDRY, doctor at Paris during the first part of the nineteenth century. An old man and an
upholder of old treatments; having a practice mainly among the middle class. Attended Cesar
Birotteau, Jules Desmarets, Mme. Descoings and Vanda de Mergi. His name was still cited at
the end of Louis Philippe's reign. Stern and narrow-minded, he did not comprehend the budding
genius of one of his pupils, Louis Lambert, but destroyed the "Treatise on the Will," written
by the lad. [Louis Lambert.]

HAUTESERRE (D'), born in 1751; grandfather of Marquis de Cinq-Cygne; guardian of Laurence de
Cinq-Cygne; father of Robert and Adrien d'Hauteserre. A gentleman of caution he would willingly
have parleyed with the Revolution; he made this evident after 1803 in the Arcis precinct where
he resided, and especially during the succeeding years marked by an affair which jeopardized
the lives of some of his family. Gondreville, Peyrade, Corentin, Fouche and Napoleon were bugaboos
to d'Hauteserre. He outlived his sons. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

HAUTESERRE (Madame d'), wife of the preceding; born in 1763; mother of Robert and Adrien; showed
throughout her wearied, saddened frame the marks of the old regime. Following Goujet's advice
she countenanced the deeds of Mlle. de Cinq-Cygne, the bold, dashing counter-revolutionist
of Arcis during 1803 and succeeding years. Mme. Hauteserre survived her sons. [The Gondreville
Mystery.]

HAUTESERRE (Robert d'), elder son of the foregoing. Brusque, recalling the men of mediaeval
times, despite his feeble constitution. A man of honor, he followed the fortunes of his brother
Adrien and his kinsmen the Simeuses. Like them, he emigrated during the first Revolution, and
returned to the neighborhood of Arcis about 1803. Like them again he became enamored of Mlle.
de Cinq-Cygne. Wrongly accused of having abducted the senator, Malin de Gondreville, and sentenced
to ten years' hard labor, he obtained the Emperor's pardon and was made sub-lieutenant in the
cavalry. He died as colonel at the storming of Moskowa, September 7, 1812. [The Gondreville
Mystery.]

HAUTESERRE (Adrien d'), second son of M. and Mme. d'Hauteserre; was of different stamp from
his older brother Robert, yet had many things in common with the latter's career. He also was
influenced by honor. He also emigrated and, on his return, fell under the same sentence. He
also obtained Napoleon's pardon and a commission in the army, taking Robert's place in the
attack on Moskowa; and in recognition of his severe wounds became brigadier-general after the
battle of Dresden, August 26, 27, 1813. The doors of the Chateau de Cinq-Cygne were opened
to admit the mutilated soldier, who married his mistress, Laurence, though his affection was
not requited. This marriage made Adrien Marquis de Cinq-Cygne. During the Restoration he was
made a peer, promoted to lieutenant-general, and obtained the Cross of Saint-Louis. He died
in 1829, lamented by his wife, his parents and his children. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

HAUTESERRE (Abbe d'), brother of M. d'Hauteserre; somewhat like his young kinsman in disposition;
made some ado over his noble birth; thus it happened that he was killed, shot in the attack
on the Hotel de Cinq-Cygne by the people of Troyes, in 1792. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

HAUTOY (Francis du), gentleman of Angouleme; was consul at Valence. Lived in the chief city
of Charente between 1821 and 1824; frequented the Bargetons; was on the most intimate terms
with the Senonches, and was said to be the father of Francoise de la Haye, daughter of Mme.
de Senonches. Hautoy seemed slightly superior to his associates. [Lost Illusions.]

HENRI, police-agent at Paris in 1840, given special assignments by Corentin, and placed as
servant successively at the Thuilliers, and with Nepomucene Picot, with the duty of watching
Theodose de la Peyrade. [The Middle Classes.]

HERBELOT, notary of Arcis-sur-Aube during the electoral period of spring, 1839; visited the
Beauvisages, Marions and Mollots. [The Member for Arcis.]

HERBELOT (Malvina), born in 1809; sister of the preceding, whose curiosity she shared, when
the Arcis elections were in progress. She also called on the Beauvisages and the Mollots, and,
despite her thirty years, sought the society of the young women of these houses. [The Member
for Arcis.]

HERBOMEZ, of Mayenne, nick-named General Hardi; chauffeur implicated in the Royalist uprising
in which Henriette Bryond took part, during the first Empire. Like Mme. de la Chanterie's daughter,
Herbomez paid with his head his share in the rebellion. His execution took place in 1809. [The
Seamy Side of History.]

HERBOMEZ (D'), brother of the foregoing, but more fortunate, he ended by becoming a count and
receiver-general. [The Seamy Side of History.]

HEREDIA (Marie). (See Soria, Duchesse de.)

HERMANN, a Nuremberg merchant who commanded a free company enlisted against the French, in
October, 1799. Was arrested and thrown into a prison of Andernach, where he had for fellow-prisoner,
Prosper Magnan, a young assistant surgeon, native of Beauvais, Oise. Hermann thus learned the
terrible secret of an unjust detention followed by an execution equally unjust. Many years
after, in Paris, he told the story of the martyrdom of Magnan in the presence of F. Taillefer,
the unpunished author of the dual crime which had caused the imprisonment and death of an innocent
man. [The Red Inn.]

HERON, notary of Issoudun in the early part of the nineteenth century, who was attorney for
the Rougets, father and son. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

HEROUVILLE (Marechal d'), whose ancestors' names were inscribed in the pages of French history,
during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, replete with glory and dramatic mystery; was
Duc de Nivron. He was the last governor of Normandy, returned from exile with Louis XVIII.
in 1814, and died at an advanced age in 1819. [The Hated Son. Modeste Mignon.]

HEROUVILLE (Duc d'), son of the preceding; born in 1796, at Vienna, Austria, during the emigration,
"fruit of the matrimonial autumn of the last governor of Normandy"; descendant of a Comte d'Herouville,
a Norman free-lance who lived under Henri IV. and Louis XIII. A more modest origin, however,
was ascribed to him by some. The founder of his house was supposed to have been an usher at
the court of Robert of Normandy. But the coat-of-arms bore the device "Herus Villa"--House
of the Chief. At any rate, the physical unattractiveness and comparative lack of means of D'Herouville,
who was a kind of dwarf, contrasted with his aristocratic lineage. However, his income allowed
him to keep a house on rue Saint-Thomas du Louvre, Paris, and to keep on good terms with the
Chaulieus. He maintained Fanny Beaupre, who apparently cost him dear; for, about 1829, he sought
the hand of the Mignon heiress. During the reign of Louis Philippe, D'Herouville, then a social
leader, had acquaintance with the Hulots, was known as a celebrated art amateur, and resided
on rue de Varenne, in Faubourg Saint-Germain. Later he took Josepha Mirah from Hulot, and installed
her in fine style on rue Saint-Maur-du-Temple with Olympe Bijou. [The Hated Son. Jealousies
of a Country Town. Modeste Mignon. Cousin Betty.]

HEROUVILLE (Mademoiselle d'), aunt of the preceding; dreamed of a rich marriage for that stunted
creature, who seemed a sort of reproduction of an evil Herouville of past ages. She desired
Modeste Mignon for him; but her aristocratic pride revolted at the thought of Mlle. Monegod
or Augusta de Nucingen. [Modeste Mignon.]

HEROUVILLE (Helene d'), niece of the preceding; sister of Duc d'Herouville; accompanied her
relatives to Havre in 1829; afterwards knew the Mignons. [Modeste Mignon.]

HERRERA (Carlos), unacknowledged son of the Duc d'Ossuna; canon of the cathedral of Toledo,
charged with a political mission to France by Ferdinand VII. He was drawn into an ambush by
Jacques Collin, who killed him, stripped him and then assumed his name until about 1830. [Lost
Illusions. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

HICLAR, Parisian musician, in 1845, who received from Dubourdieu, a symbolical painter, author
of a figure of Harmony, an order to compose a symphony suitable of being played before the
picture. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

HILEY, alias the Laborer, a chauffeur and the most cunning of minor participants in the Royalist
uprising of Orne. Was executed in 1809. [The Seamy Side of History.]

HIPPOLYTE, young officer, aide-de-camp to general Eble in the Russian campaign; friend of Major
Philippe de Sucy. Killed in an attack on the Russians near Studzianka, November 18, 1812. [Farewell.]

HOCHON, born at Issoudun about 1738; was tax-receiver at Selles, Berry. Married Maximilienne,
the sister of Sub-Delegate Lousteau. Had three children, one of whom became Mme. Borniche.
Hochon's marriage and the change of the political horizon brought him back to his native town
where he and his family were long known as the Five Hochons. Mlle. Hochon's marriage and the
death of her brothers made the jest still tenable; for M. Hochon, despite a proverbial avarice,
adopted their posterity--Francois Hochon, Baruch and Adolphine Borniche. Hochon lived till
an advanced age. He was still living at the end of the Restoration, and gave shrewd advice
to the Bridaus regarding the Rouget legacy. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

HOCHON (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Maximilienne Lousteau about 1750; sister of the
sub-delegate; also god-mother of Mme. Bridau, nee Rouget. During her whole life she displayed
a sweet and resigned sympathy. The neglected and timorous mother of a family, she bore the
matrimonial yoke of a second Felix Grandet. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

HOCHON, elder son of the foregoing; survived his brother and sister; married at an early age
to a wealthy woman by whom he had one son; died a year before her, in 1813, slain at the battle
of Hanau. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

HOCHON (Francois), son of the preceding, born in 1798. Left an orphan at sixteen he was adopted
by his paternal grandparents and lived in Issoudun with his cousins, the Borniche children.
He affiliated secretly with Maxence Gilet, being one of the "Knights of Idlesse," till his
conduct was discovered. His stern grandmother sent the young man to Poitiers where he studied
law and received a yearly allowance of six hundred francs. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

HONORINE, (See Bauvan, Comtesse Octave de.)

HOPWOOD (Lady Julia), English; made a journey to Spain between 1818 and 1819, and had there
for a time a chamber-maid known as Caroline, who was none other than Antoinette de Langeais,
who had fled from Paris after Montriveau jilted her. [The Thirteen.]

HOREAU (Jacques), alias the Stuart, had been lieutenant in the Sixty-ninth demi-brigade. Became
one of the associates of Tinteniac, known through his participation in the Quiberon expedition.
Turned chauffeur and compromised himself in the Orne Royalist uprising. Was executed in 1809.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

HORTENSE was, under Louis Philippe, one of the numerous mistresses of Lord Dudley. She lived
on rue Tronchet when Cerizet employed Antonia Chocardelle to hoodwink Maxime de Trailles. [A
Man of Business. The Member for Arcis.]

HOSTAL (Maurice de l'), born in 1802; living physical portrait of Byron; nephew and like an
adopted son of Abbe Loraux. He became, at Marais, in rue Payenne, the secretary and afterwards
the confidant of Octave de Bauvan. Was acquainted with Honorine de Bauvan on rue Saint-Maur-Popincourt
and all but fell in love with her. Turned diplomat, left France, married the Italian, Onorina
Pedrotti, and became head of a family. While consul to Genoa, about 1836, he again met Octave
de Bauvan, then a widower and near his end, who entrusted his son to him. M. de l'Hostal once
entertained Claude Vignon, Leon de Lora and Felicite des Touches, to whom he related the marital
troubles of the Bauvans. [Honorine.]

HOSTAL (Madame Maurice de l'), wife of the preceding, born Onorina Pedrotti. A beautiful and
unusually rich Genoese; slightly jealous of the consul; perhaps overhead the story of the Bauvans.
[Honorine.]

HULOT, born in 1766, served under the first Republic and Empire. Took an active part in the
wars and tragedies of the time. Commanded the Seventy-second demi-brigade, called the Mayencaise,
during the Chouan uprising of 1799. Fought against Montauran. His career as private and officer
had been so filled that his thirty-three years seemed an age. He went out a great deal. Rubbed
elbows with Montcornet; called on Mme. de la Baudraye. He remained a democrat during the Empire;
nevertheless Bonaparte recognized him. Hulot was made colonel of the grenadiers of the Guard,
Comte de Forzheim and marshal. Retired to his splendid home on rue du Montparnasse, where he
passed his declining years simply, being deaf, remaining a friend of Cottin de Wissembourg,
and often surrounded by the family of a brother whose misconduct hastened his end in 1841.
Hulot was given a superb funeral. [The Chouans. The Muse of the Department. Cousin Betty.]

HULOT D'ERVY (Baron Hector), born about 1775; brother of the preceding; took the name of Hulot
d'Ervy early in life in order to make a distinction between himself and his brother to whom
he owed the brilliant beginning of a civil and military career. Hulot d'Ervy became ordonnance
commissary during the Republic. The Empire made him a baron. During one of these periods he
married Adeline Fischer, by whom he had two children. The succeeding governments, at least
that of July, also favored Hector Hulot, and he became in turn, intendant-general, director
of the War Department, councillor of state, and grand officer of the Legion of Honor. His private
misbehavior dated from these periods and gathered force while he lived in Paris. Each of his
successive mistresses--Jenny Cadine, Josepha Mirah, Valerie Marneffe, Olympe Bijou, Elodie
Chardin, Atala Judici, Agathe Piquetard --precipitated his dishonor and ruin. He hid under
various names, as Thoul, Thorec and Vyder, anagrams of Hulot, Hector and d'Ervy. Neither the
persecutions of the money-lender Samanon nor the influence of his family could reform him.
After his wife's death he married, February 1, 1846, Agathe Piquetard, his kitchen-girl and
the lowest of his servants. [Cousin Betty.]

HULOT D'ERVY (Baronne Hector), wife of the preceding; born Adeline Fischer, about 1790, in
the village of Vosges; remarkable for her beauty; was married for mutual love, despite her
inferior birth, and for some time lived caressed and adored by her husband and venerated by
her brother-in-law. At the end of the Empire probably commenced her sorrows and the faithlessness
of Hector, notwithstanding the two children born of their union, Victorin and Hortense. Had
it not been for her maternal solicitude the baroness could have condoned the gradual degradation
of her husband. The honor of the name and the future of her daughter gave her concern. No sacrifice
was too great for her. She vainly offered herself to Celestin Crevel, whom she had formerly
scorned, and underwent the parvenu's insults; she besought Josepha Mirah's aid, and rescued
the baron from Atala Judici. The closing years of her life were not quite so miserable. She
devoted herself to charitable offices, and lived on rue Louis-le-Grand with her married children
and their reclaimed father. The intervention of Victorin, and the deaths of the Comte de Forzheim,
of Lisbeth Fischer and of M. and Mme. Crevel, induced comfort and security that was often menaced.
But the conduct of Hector with Agathe Piquetard broke the thread of Mme. Hulot d'Ervy's life;
for some time she had had a nervous trouble. She died aged about fifty-six. [Cousin Betty.]

HULOT (Victorin), elder child of the foregoing. Married Mlle. Celestine Crevel and was father
of a family. Became under Louis Philippe one of the leading attorneys of Paris. Was deputy,
counsel of the War Department, consulting counsel of the police service and counsel for the
civil list. His salary for the various offices came to eighteen thousand francs. He was seated
at Palais-Bourbon when the election of Dorlange-Sallenauve was contested. His connection with
the police enabled him to save his family from the clutches of Mme. Valerie Crevel. In 1834
he owned a house on rue Louis-le-Grand. Seven or eight years later he sheltered nearly all
the Hulots and their near kindred, but he could not prevent the second marriage of his father.
[The Member for Arcis. Cousin Betty.]

HULOT (Madame Victorin), wife of preceding, born Celestine Crevel; married as a result of a
meeting between her father and her father-in-law, who were both libertines. She took part in
the dissensions between the two families, replaced Lisbeth Fischer in the care of the house
on rue Louis-le-Grand, and probably never saw the second Mme. Celestin Crevel, unless at the
death-bed of the retired perfumer. [Cousin Betty.]

HULOT (Hortense). (See Steinbock, Comtesse Wenceslas.)

HULOT D'ERVY (Baronne Hector), nee Agathe Piquetard of Isigny, where she became the second
wife of Hector Hulot d'Ervy. Went to Paris as kitchen-maid for Hulot about December, 1845,
and was married to her master, then a widower, on February 1, 1846. [Cousin Betty.]

HUMANN, celebrated Parisian tailor of 1836 and succeeding years. At the instance of the students
Rabourdin and Juste he clothed the poverty-stricken Zephirin Marcas "as a politician." [Z. Marcas.]

HUSSON (Madame.) (See Mme. Clapart.)

HUSSON (Oscar), born about 1804, son of the preceding and of M. Husson --army-contractor; led
a checkered career, explained by his origin and childhood. He scarcely knew his father, who
made and soon lost a fortune. The previous fast life of his mother, who afterwards married
again, gave rise to or upheld some more or less influential connections and made her, during
the first Empire, the titular femme de chambre to Madame Mere--Letitia Bonaparte. Napoleon's
fall marked the ruin of the Hussons. Oscar and his mother--now married to M. Clapart--lived
in a modest apartment on rue de la Cerisaie, Paris. Oscar obtained a license and became clerk
in Desroches' law office in Paris, being coached by Godeschal. During this time he became acquainted
with two young men, his cousins the Marests. One of them had previously instigated an early
escapade of Oscar's, and it was now followed by one much more serious, on rue de Vendome at
the house of Florentine Cabirolle, who was then maintained by Cardot, Oscar's wealthy uncle.
Husson was forced to abandon law and enter military service. He was in the cavalry regiment
of the Duc de Maufrigneuse and the Vicomte de Serizy. The interest of the dauphiness and of
Abbe Gaudron obtained for him promotion and a decoration. He became in turn aide-de-camp to
La Fayette, captain, officer of the Legion of Honor and lieutenant-colonel. A noteworthy deed
made him famous on Algerian territory during the affair of La Macta; Husson lost his left arm
in the vain attempt to save Vicomte de Serizy. Put on half-pay, he obtained the post of collector
for Beaumont-sur-Oise. He then married --1838--Georgette Pierrotin and met again the accomplices
or witnesses of his earlier escapades--one of the Marests, the Moreaus, etc. [A Start in Life.]

HUSSON (Madame Oscar), wife of the preceding; born Georgette Pierrotin; daughter of the proprietor
of the stage-service of Oise. [A Start in Life.]

HYDE DE NEUVILLE (Jean-Guillaume, Baron)--1776-1857--belonged to the Martignac ministry of
1828; was, in 1797, one of the most active Bourbon agents. Kept civil war aflame in the West,
and held a conference in 1799 with First Consul Bonaparte relative to the restoration of Louis
XVIII. [The Chouans.]

                                  I

IDAMORE, nick-name of Chardin junior while he was claqueur in a theatre on the Boulevard du
Temple, Paris. [Cousin Betty.]

ISEMBERG (Marechal, Duc d'), probably belonged to the Imperial nobility. He lost at the gaming
table, in November, 1809, in a grand fete given at Paris at Senator Malin de Gondreville's
home, while the Duchesse de Lansac was acting as peacemaker between a youthful married couple.
[Domestic Peace.]

                                  J

JACMIN (Philoxene), of Honfleur; perhaps cousin of Jean Butscha; maid to Eleonore de Chaulieu;
in love with Germain Bonnet, valet of Melchior de Canalis. [Modeste Mignon.]

JACOMETY, head jailer of the Conciergerie, at Paris, in May, 1830, during Rubempre's imprisonment.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

JACQUELIN, born in Normandy about 1776; in 1816 was employed by Mlle. Cormon, an old maid of
Alencon. He married when she espoused M. du Bousquier. After the double marriage Jacquelin
remained for some time in the service of the niece of the Abbe de Sponde. [Jealousies of a
Country Town.]

JACQUES, for a considerable period butler of Claire de Beauseant, following her to Bayeux.
Essentially "aristocratic, intelligent and discreet," he understood the sufferings of his mistress.
[Father Goriot. The Deserted Woman.]

JACQUET (Claude-Joseph), a worthy bourgeois of the Restoration; head of a family, and something
of a crank. He performed the duties of a deputy-mayor in Paris, and also had charge of the
archives in the Department of Foreign Affairs. Was greatly indebted to his friend Jules Desmarets;
so he deciphered for him, about 1820, a code letter of Gratien Bourignard. When Clemence Desmarets
died, Jacquet comforted the broker in the Saint-Roch church and in the Pere-Lachaise cemetery.
[The Thirteen.]

JACQUINOT, said to have succeeded Cardot as notary at Paris, time of Louis Philippe [The Middle
Classes.]; but since Cardot was succeeded by Berthier, his son-in-law, a discrepancy is apparent.

JACQUOTTE, left the service of a cure for that of Dr. Benassis, whose house she managed with
a devotion and care not unmixed with despotism. [The Country Doctor.]

JAN,* a painter who cared not a fig for glory. About 1838 he covered with flowers and decorated
the door of a bed-chamber in a suite owned by Crevel on rue du Dauphin, Paris. [Cousin Betty.]

*   Perhaps the fresco-painter, Laurent-Jan, author of "Unrepentant
    Misanthropy," and the friend of Balzac, to whom the latter
    dedicated his drama, "Vautrin."

JANVIER, priest in a village of Isere in 1829, a "veritable Fenelon shrunk to a cure's proportions";
knew, understood and assisted Benassis. [The Country Doctor.]

JAPHET (Baron), celebrated chemist who subjected to hydrofluoric acid, to chloride of nitrogen,
and to the action of the voltaic battery the mysterious "magic skin" of Raphael de Valentin.
To his stupefaction the savant wrought no change on the tissue. [The Magic Skin.]

JEAN, coachman and trusted servant of M. de Merret, at Vendome, in 1816. [La Grande Breteche.]

JEAN, landscape gardener and farm-hand for Felix Grandet, enagaged about November, 1819, in
a field on the bank of the Loire, filling holes left by removed populars and planting other
trees. [Eugenie Grandet.]

JEAN, one of the keepers of Pere-Lachaise cemetery in 1820-21; conducted Desmarets and Jacquet
to the tomb of Clemence Bourignard, who had recently been interred.* [The Thirteen.]

*   In 1868, at Paris, MM. Ferdinand Dugue and Peaucellier presented a
    play at the Gaite theatre, where one of the chief characters was
    Clemence Bourignard-Desmarets.

JEAN, lay brother of an abbey until 1791, when he found a home with Niseron, cure of Blangy,
Burgundy; seldom left Gregoire Rigou, whose factotum he finally became. [The Peasantry.]

JEANNETTE, born in 1758; cook for Ragon at Paris in 1818, in rue du Petit-Lion-Saint-Sulpice;
distinguished herself at the Sunday receptions. [Cesar Birotteau.]

JEANRENAUD (Madame), a Protestant, widow of a salt bargeman, by whom she had a son. A stout,
ugly and vulgar woman, who recovered, during the Restoration, a fortune that had been stolen
by the Catholic ancestors of D'Espard and was restored to him despite a suit to restrain him
by injunction. Mme. Jeanrenaud lived at Villeparisis, and then at Paris, where she dwelt successively
on rue de la Vrilliere --No. 8--and on Grand rue Verte. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

JEANRENAUD, son of the preceding, born about 1792. He served as officer in the Imperial Guard,
and, through the influence of D'Espard-Negrepelisse, became, in 1828, chief of squadron in
the First regiment of the Cuirassiers of the Guard. Charles X. made him a baron. He then married
a niece of Monegod. His beautiful villa on Lake Geneva is mentioned by Albert Savarus in "L'Ambitieux
par Amour," published in the reign of Louis Philippe. [The Commission in Lunacy. Albert Savarus.]

JENNY was, during the Restoration, maid and confidante of Aquilina de la Garde; afterwards,
but for a very brief time, mistress of Castanier. [Melmoth Reconciled.]

JEROME (Pere), second-hand book-seller on Pont Notre-Dame, Paris, in 1821, at the time when
Rubempre was making a start there. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

JEROME, valet successively of Galard and of Albert Savarus at Besancon. He may have served
the Parisian lawyer less sedulously because of Mariette, a servant at the Wattevilles, whose
dowry he was after. [Albert Savarus.]

JOHNSON (Samuel), assumed name of the police-agent, Peyrade.

JOLIVARD, clerk of registry, rue de Normandie, Paris, about the end of Louis Philippe's reign.
He lived on the first floor of the house owned by Pillerault, attended by the Cibots and tenanted
by the Chapoulots, Pons and Schmucke. [Cousin Pons.]

JONATHAS, valet of M. de Valentin senior; foster-father of Raphael de Valentin, whose steward
he afterwards became when the young man was a multi-millionaire. He served him faithfully and
survived him. [The Magic Skin.]

JORDY (De) had been successively captain in a regiment of Royal-Suedois and professor in the
Ecole Militaire. He had a refined nature and a tender heart; was the type of a poor but uncomplaining
gentleman. His soul must have been the scene of sad secrets. Certain signs led one to believe
that he had had children whom he had adored and lost. M. de Jordy lived modestly and quietly
at Nemours. A similiarity of tastes and character drew him towards Denis Minoret whose intimate
friend he became, and at whose home he conceived a liking for the doctor's young ward--Mme.
Savinien de Portenduere. He had great influence over her, and left her an income of fourteen
hundred francs when he died in 1823. [Ursule Mirouet.]

JOSEPH, with Charles and Francois, was of the establishment of Montcornet at Aigues, Burgundy,
about 1823. [The Peasantry.]

JOSEPH, faithful servant of Rastignac at Paris, under the Restoration. In 1828 he carried to
the Marquise de Listomere a letter written by his master to Mme. de Nucingen. This error, for
which Joseph could hardly be held responsible, caused the scorn of the marquise when she discoverd
that the missive was intended for another. [The Magic Skin. A Study of Woman.]

JOSEPH, in the service of F. du Tillet, Paris, when his master was fairly launched in society
and received Birotteau in state. [Cesar Birotteau.]

JOSEPH, given name of a worthy chimney-builder of rue Saint-Lazare, Paris, about the end of
the reign of Louis Philippe. Of Italian origin, the head of a family, saved from ruin by Adeline
Hulot, who acted for Mme. de la Chanterie. Joseph was in touch with the scribe, Vyder, and
when he took Mme. Hulot to see the latter she recognized in him her husband. [Cousin Betty.]

JOSEPHA, (See Mirah, Josepha.)

JOSETTE, cook for Claes at Douai; greatly attached to Josephine, Marguerite and Felicie Claes.
Died about the end of the Restoration. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

JOSETTE, old housekeeper for Maitre Mathias of Bordeaux during the Restoration. She accompanied
her master when he bade farewell to Paul de Manerville the emigrant. [A Marriage Settlement.]

JOSETTE, in and previous to 1816 chambermaid of Victoire-Rose Cormon of Alencon. She married
Jacquelin when her mistress married du Bousquier. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

JUDICI (Atala), born about 1829, of Lombard descent; had a paternal grandfather, who was a
wealthy chimney-builder of Paris during the first Empire, an employer of Joseph; he died in
1819. Mlle. Judici did not inherit her grandfather's fortune, for it was run through with by
her father. In 1844 she was given by her mother--so the story goes--to Hector Hulot for fifteen
thousand francs. She then left her family, who lived on rue de Charonne, and lived on Passage
du Soleil. The pretty Atala was obliged to leave Hulot when his wife found him. Mme. Hulot
promised her a dowry and to wed her to Joseph's oldest son. She was sometimes called Judix,
which is a French corruption of the Italian name. [Cousin Betty.]

JUDITH. (See Mme. Genestas.)

JULIEN, one of the turnkeys of the Conciergerie in 1830, during the trial of Herrera--Vautrin--and
Rubempre. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

JULIEN, probably a native of Champagne; a young man in 1839, and in the service of Sub-Prefect
Goulard, in Arcis-sur-Aube. He learned through Anicette, and revealed to the Beauvisages and
Mollots, the Legitimist plots of the Chateau de Cinq-Cygne, where lived Georges de Maufrigneuse,
Daniel d'Arthez, Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, Diane de Cadignan and Berthe de Maufrigneuse. [The
Member for Arcis.]

JULLIARD, head of the firm of Julliard in Paris, about 1806. At the "Ver Chinois," rue Saint-Denis,
he sold silk in bolls. Sylvie Rogron was assistant saleswoman. Twenty years later he met her
again in their native country of Provins, where he had retired in 1815, the head of a family
grouped about the Guepins and the Guenees, thus forming three great clans. [Pierrette.]

JULLIARD, elder son of the preceding; married the only daughter of a rich farmer and also conceived
a platonic affection at Provins for Melanie Tiphaine, the most beautiful woman of the official
colony during the Restoration. Julliard followed commerce and literature; he maintained a stage
line, and a journal christened "La Ruche," in which latter he burned incense to Mme. Tiphaine.
[Pierrette.]

JUSSIEU (Julien), youthful conscript in the great draft of 1793. Sent with a note for lodgment
to the home of Mme. de Dey at Carentan, where he was the innocent cause of that woman's sudden
death; she was just then expecting the return of her son, a Royalist hunted by the Republican
troops. [The Conscript.]

JUSTE, born in 1811, studied medicine in Paris, and afterwards went to Asia to practice. In
1836 he lived on rue Corneille with Charles Rabourdin, when they helped the poverty-stricken
Zephirin Marcas. [Z. Marcas.]

JUSTIN, old and experienced valet of the Vidame de Pamiers; was secretly slain by order of
Bourignard because he had discovered the real name, but carefully concealed, of the father
of Mme. Desmarets. [The Thirteen.]

JUSTINE, was maid to the Comtesse Foedora, in Paris, when her mistress received calls from
M. de Valentin. [The Magic Skin.]

                                  K

KATT, a Flemish woman, the nurse of Lydie de la Peyrade, whom she attended constantly in Paris
on rue des Moineaux about 1829, and during her mistress' period of insanity on Rue Honore Chevalier
in 1840. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. The Middle Classes.]

KELLER (Francois), one of the influential and wealthy Parisian bankers, during a period extending
perhaps from 1809 to 1839. As such, in November, 1809, under the Empire, he was one of the
guests at a fine reception, given by Comte Malin de Gondreville, meeting there Isemberg, Montcornet,
Mesdames de Lansac and de Vandemont, and a mixed company composed of members of the aristocracy
and people illustrious under the Empire. At this time, moreover, Francois Keller was in the
family of Malin de Gondreville, one of whose daughters he had married. This marriage, besides
making him the brother-in-law of the Marechal de Carigliano, gave him assurance of the deputyship,
which he obtained in 1816 and held until 1836. The district electors of Arcis-sur-Aube kept
him in the legislature during that long period. Francois Keller had, by his marriage with Mademoiselle
de Gondreville, one son, Charles, who died before his parents in the spring of 1839. As deputy,
Francois Keller became one of the most noted orators of the Left Centre. He shone as a member
of the opposition, especially from 1819 to 1825. Adroitly he drew about himself the robe of
philanthropy. Politics never turned his attention from finance. Francois Keller, seconded by
his brother and partner, Adolphe Keller, refused to aid the needy perfumer, Cesar Birotteau.
Between 1821 and 1823 the creditors of Guillaume Grandet, the bankrupt, unanimously selected
him and M. des Grassins of Saumur as adjusters. Despite his display of Puritanical virtues,
the private career of Francois Keller was not spotless. In 1825 it was known that he had an
illegitimate and costly liaison with Flavie Colleville. Rallying to the support of the new
monarchy from 1830 to 1836, Francois Keller saw his Philippist zeal rewarded in 1839. He exchanged
his commission at the Palais-Bourbon for a peerage, and received the title of count. Under
the Restoration, she inspired a warm passion in the heart of the son of the Duchesse de Marigny.
[Domestic Peace. The Member for Arcis. The Thirteen.]

KELLER, (Charles), born in 1809, son of the preceding couple, grandson of the Comte de Gondreville,
nephew of the Marechale de Carigliano; his life was prematurely ended in 1839, at a time when
a brilliant future seemed before him. As a major of staff at the side of the Prince Royal,
Ferdinand d'Orleans, he took the field in Algeria. His bravery urged him on in pursuit of the
Emir Abd-el-Kader, and he gave up his life in the face of the enemy. Becoming viscount as a
result of the knighting of his father, and assured of the favors of the heir presumptive to
the throne, Charles Keller, at the moment when death surprised him, was on the point of taking
his seat in the Lower Chamber; for the body of electors of the district of Arcis-sur-Aube were
almost sure to elect a man whom the Tuileries desired so ardently. [The Member for Arcis.]

KELLER (Adolphe), brother--probably younger--of Francois and his partner; a very shrewd man,
who was really in charge of the business, a "regular lynx." On account of his intimate relations
with Nucingen and F. du Tillet, he flatly refused to aid Cesar Birotteau, who implored his
assistance. [The Middle Classes. Pierrette. Cesar Birotteau.]

KERGAROUET (Comte de), born about the middle of the eighteenth century; of the Bretagne nobility;
entered the navy, served long and valiantly upon the sea, commanded the "Belle-Poule," and
died a vice-admiral. Possessor of a great fortune, by his charity he made amends for the foulness
of some of his youthful love affairs (1771 and following), and at Paris, near the Madeleine,
towards the beginning of the nineteenth century, with much delicacy, he helped the Baronne
Leseigneur de Rouville. A little later, at the age of seventy-two, having for a long time been
a widower and retired from the navy, while enjoying the hospitality of his relatives, the Fontaines
and the Planat de Baudrys, who lived in the neighborhood of Sceaux, Kergarouet married his
niece, one of the daughters of Fontaine. He died before her. M. de Kergarouet was also a relative
of the Portendueres and did not forget them. [The Purse. The Ball at Sceaux. Ursule Mirouet.]

KERGAROUET (Comtesse de). (See Vandenesse, Marquise Charles de.)

KERGAROUET (Vicomte de), nephew of the Comte de Kergarouet, husband of a Pen-Hoel, by whom
he had four daughters. Evidently lived at Nantes in 1836. [Beatrix.]

KERGAROUET (Vicomtesse de), wife of the preceding, born at Pen-Hoel in 1789; younger sister
of Jacqueline; mother of four girls, very affected woman and looked upon as such by Felicite
des Touches and Arthur de Rochefide. Lived in Nantes in 1836. [Beatrix.]

KERGAROUET (Charlotte de), born in 1821, one of the daughters of the preceding, grand-niece
of the Comte de Kergarouet; of his four nieces she was the favorite of the wealthy Jacqueline
de Pen-Hoel; a good-hearted little country girl; fell in love with Calyste du Guenic in 1836,
but did not marry him. [Beatrix.]

KOLB, an Alsatian, served as "man of all work" at the home of the Didots in Paris; had served
in the cuirassiers. Under the Restoration he became "printer's devil" in the establishment
of David Sechard of Angouleme, for whom he showed an untiring devotion, and whose servant,
Marion, he married. [Lost Illusions.]

KOLB (Marion), wife of the preceding, with whom she became acquainted while at the home of
David Sechard. She was, at first, in the service of the Angouleme printer, Jerome-Nicholas
Sechard, for whom she had less praise than for David. Marion Kolb was like her husband in her
constant, childlike devotion. [Lost Illusions.]

KOUSKI, Polish lancer in the French Royal Guards, lived very unhappily in 1815-16, but enjoyed
life better the following year. At that time he lived at Issoudun in the home of the wealthy
Jean-Jacques Rouget, and served the commandant, Maxence Gilet. The latter became the idol of
the grateful Kouski. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

KROPOLI (Zena), Montenegrin of Zahara, seduced in 1809 by the French gunner, Auguste Niseron,
by whom she had a daughter, Genevieve. One year later, at Vincennes, France, she died as a
result of her confinement. The necessary marriage papers, which would have rendered valid the
situation of Zena Kropoli, arrived a few days after her death. [The Peasantry.]

                                  L

LA BASTIE (Monsieur, Madame and Mademoiselle de). (See Mignon.)

LA BASTIE LA BRIERE (Ernest de), member of a good family of Toulouse, born in 1802; very similar
in appearance to Louis XIII.; from 1824 to 1829, private secretary to the minister of finances.
On the advice of Madame d'Espard, and thus being of service to Eleonore de Chaulieu, he became
secretary to Melchior de Canalis and, at the same time, referendary of the Cour des Comptes.
He became a chevalier of the Legion of Honor. In 1829 he conducted for Canalis a love romance
by correspondence, the heroine of the affair being Marie-Modeste-Mignon de la Bastie (of Havre).
He played this part so successfully that she fell in love and marriage was agreed upon. This
union, which made him the wealthy Vicomte de la Bastie la Briere, was effected the following
February in 1830. Canalis and the minister of 1824 were witnesses for Ernest de la Briere,
who fully deserved his good fortune. [The Government Clerks. Modeste Mignon.]

LA BASTIE LA BRIERE (Madame Ernest de), wife of the preceding, born Marie-Modeste Mignon about
1809, younger daughter of Charles Mignon de la Bastie and of Bettina Mignon de la Bastie--born
Wallenrod. In 1829, while living with her family at Havre, with the same love, evoked by a
passion for literature, which Bettina Brentano d'Arnim conceived for Goethe, she fell in love
with Melchior de Canalis; she wrote frequently to the poet in secret, and he responded through
the medium of Ernest de la Briere; thus there sprang up between the young girl and the secretary
a mutual love which resulted in marriage. The witnesses for Marie-Modeste Mignon were the Duc
d'Herouville and Doctor Desplein. As one of the most envied women in Parisian circles, in the
time of Louis Philippe, she became the close friend of Mesdames de l'Estorade and Popinot.
[Modeste Mignon. The Member for Arcis. Cousin Betty.] La Bastie is sometimes written La Batie.

LA BAUDRAYE[*] (Jean-Athanase-Polydore Milaud de), born in 1780 in Berry, descended from the
simple family of Milaud, recently enobled. M. de la Baudraye's father was a good financier
of pleasing disposition; his mother was a Casteran la Tour. He was in poor health, his weak
constitution being the heritage left him by an immoral father. His father, on dying, also left
him a large number of notes to which were affixed the noble signatures of the emigrated aristocracy.
His avarice aroused, Polydore de la Baudraye occupied himself, at the time of the Restoration,
with collecting these notes; he made frequent trips to Paris; negotiated with Clement Chardin
des Lupeaulx at the Hotel de Mayence; obtained, under a promise, afterwards executed, to sell
them profitably, some positions and titles, and became successively auditor of the seals, baron,
officer of the Legion of Honor and master of petitions. The individual receivership of Sancerre,
which became his also, was bought by Gravier. M. de la Baudraye did not leave Sancerre; he
married towards 1823 Mademoiselle Dinah Piedefer, became a person of large property following
his acquisition to the castle and estate of Anzy, settled this property with the title upon
a natural son of his wife; he so worked upon her feelings as to get from her the power of attorney
and signature, sailed for America, and became rich through a large patrimony left him by Silas
Piedefer--1836-42. At that time he owned in Paris a stately mansion, on rue de l'Arcade, and
upon winning back his wife, who had left him, he placed her in it as mistress. He now became
count, commander of the Legion of Honor, and peer of France. Frederic de Nucingen received
him as such and served him as sponsor, when, in the summer of 1842, the death of Ferdinand
d'Orleans necessitated the presence of M. de la Baudraye at Luxembourg. [The Muse of the Department.]

[*] The motto on the Baudraye coat-of-arms was: "Deo patet sic fides
    et hominibus."

LA BAUDRAYE (Madame Polydore Milaud de), wife of the preceding, born Dinah Piedefer in 1807
or 1808 in Berry; daughter of the Calvinist, Moise Piedefer; niece of Silas Piedefer, from
whom she inherited a fortune. She was brilliantly educated at Bourges, in the Chamarolles boarding-school,
with Anna de Fontaine, born Grosstete--1819. Five years later, through personal ambition, she
gave up Protestantism, that she might gain the protection of the Cardinal-Archbishop of Bourges,
and a short time after her conversion she was married, about 1823. For thirteen consecutive
years, at least, Madame de la Baudraye reigned in the city of Sancerre and in her country-house,
Chateau d'Anzy, at Saint-Satur near by. Her court was composed of a strange mixture of people:
the Abbe Duret and Messieurs Clagny, Gravier, Gatien Boirouge. At first, only Clagny and Duret
know of the literary attempts of Jan Diaz, pseudonym of Madame de la Baudraye, who had just
bought the artistic furniture of the Rougets of Issoudun, and who invited and received two
"Parisiens de Sancerre," Horace Bianchon and Etienne Lousteau, in September 1836. A liaison
followed with Etienne Lousteau, with whom Madame de la Baudraye lived on rue des Martyrs in
Paris from 1837 to 1839. As a result of this union she had two sons, recognized later by M.
de la Baudraye. Madame de la Baudraye now putting into use the talent, neglected during her
love affair, became a writer. She wrote "A Prince of Bohemia," founded on an anecodote related
to her by Raoul Nathan, and probably published this novel. The fear of endless scandal, the
entreaties of husband and mother, and the unworthiness of Lousteau, finally led Dinah de la
Baudraye to rejoin her husband, who owned an elegant mansion on rue de l'Arcade. This return,
which took place in May, 1842, surprised Madame d'Espard, a woman who was not easily astonished.
Paris of the reign of Louis Philippe often quoted Dinah de la Baudraye and paid considerable
attention to her. During this same year, 1842, she assisted in the first presentation of Leon
Gozlan's drama, "The Right Hand and the Left Hand," given at the Odeon. [The Muse of the Department.
A Prince of Bohemia. Cousin Betty.]

LA BERGE (De), confessor of Madame de Mortsauf at Clochegourde, strict and virtuous. He died
in 1817, mourned on account of his "apostolic strength," by his patron, who appointed as his
successor the over-indulgent Francois Birotteau. [The Lily of the Valley.]

LA BERTELLIERE, father of Madame la Gaudiniere, grandfather of Madame Felix Grandet, was lieutenant
in the French Guards; he died in 1806, leaving a large fortune. He considered investments a
"waste of money." Nearly twenty years later his portrait was still hanging in the hall of Felix
Grandet's house at Saumur. [Eugenie Grandet.]

LA BILLARDIERE (Anthanase-Jean-Francoise-Michel, Baron Flamet de), son of a counselor in the
Parliament of Bretagne, took part in the Vendean wars as a captain under the name of Nantais,
and as negotiator played a singular part at Quiberon. The Restoration rewarded the services
of this unintelligent member of the petty nobility, whose Catholicism was more lukewarm than
his love of monarchy. He became mayor of the second district of Paris, and division-chief in
the Bureau of Finances, thanks to his kinship with a deputy on the Right. He was one of the
guests at the famous ball given by his deputy, Cesar Birotteau, whom he had known for twenty
years. On his death-bed, at the close of December, 1824, he had designated, although without
avail, as his successor, Xavier Rabourdin, one of the division-chiefs and real director of
the bureau of which La Billiardiere was the nominal head. The newspapers published obituaries
of the deceased. The short notice prepared jointly by Chardin des Lupeaulx, J.-J. Bixiou and
F. du Bruel, enumerated the many titles and decorations of Flamet de la Billardiere, gentleman
of the king's bedchamber, etc., etc. [The Chouans. Cesar Birotteau. The Government Clerks.]

LA BILLARDIERE (Benjamin, Chevalier de), son of the preceding, born in 1802. He was a companion
of the young Vicomte de Portenduere in 1824, being at the time a rich supernumerary in the
office of Isidore Baudoyer under the division of his father, Flamet de la Billardiere. His
insolence and foppishness gave little cause for regret when he left the Bureau of Finances
for the Department of Seals in the latter part of the same year, 1824, that marked the expected
and unlamented death of Baron Flamet de la Billardiere. [The Government Clerks.]

LA BLOTTIERE (Mademoiselle Merlin de), under the Restoration, a kind of dowager and canoness
at Tours; in company with Mesdames Pauline Salomon de Villenoix and de Listomere, upheld, received
and welcomed Francois Birotteau. [The Vicar of Tours.]

LABRANCHOIR (Comte de), owner of an estate in Dauphine under the Restoration, and, as such,
a victim of the depredations of the poacher, Butifer. [The Country Doctor.]

LA BRIERE (Ernest de). (See La Bastie la Briere.)

LACEPEDE (Comte de), a celebrated naturalist, born at Agen in 1756, died at Paris in 1825.
Grand chancelor of the Legion of Honor for several years towards the beginning of the nineteenth
century. This well-known philosopher was invited to Cesar Birotteau's celebrated ball, December
17, 1818. [Cesar Birotteau.]

LA CHANTERIE (Le Chantre de), of a Norman family dating from the crusade of Philippe Auguste,
but which had fallen into obscurity by the end of the eighteenth century; he owned a small
fief between Caen and Saint-Lo. M. le Chantre de la Chanterie had amassed in the neighborhood
of three hundred thousand crowns by supplying the royal armies during the Hanoverian war. He
died during the Revolution, but before the Terror. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LA CHANTERIE (Baron Henri Le Chantre de), born in 1763, son of the preceding, shrewd, handsome
and seductive. When master of petitions in the Grand Council of 1788, he married Mademoiselle
Barbe-Philiberte de Champignelles. Ruined during the Restoration through having lost his position
and thrown away his inheritance, Henri Le Chantre de la Chanterie became one of the most cruel
presidents of the revolutionary courts and was the terror of Normandie. Imprisoned after the
ninth Thermidor, he owed his escape to his wife, by means of an exchange of clothing. He did
not see her more than three times during eight years, the last meeting being in 1802, when,
having become a bigamist, he returned to her home to die of a disgraceful disease, leaving,
at the same time, a second wife, likewise ruined. This last fact was not made public until
1804. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LA CHANTERIE (Baronne Henri Le Chantre de), wife of the preceding, born Barbe-Philiberte de
Champignelles in 1772, a descendant of one of the first families of Lower Normandie. Married
in 1788, she received in her home, fourteen years later, the dying man whose name she bore,
a bigamist fleeing from justice. By him she had a daughter, Henriette, who was executed in
1809 for having been connected with the Chauffeurs in Orne. Unjustly accused herself, and imprisoned
in the frightful Bicetre of Rouen, the baroness began to instruct in morals the sinful women
among whom she found herself thrown. The fall of the Empire was her deliverance. Twenty years
later, being part owner of a house in Paris, Madame de la Chanterie undertook the training
of Godefroid. She was then supporting a generous private philanthropic movement, with the help
of Manon Godard and Messieurs de Veze, de Montauran, Mongenod and Alain. Madame de la Chanterie
aided the Bourlacs and the Mergis, an impoverished family of magistrates who had persecuted
her in 1809. Her Christian works were enlarged upon. In 1843 the baroness became head of a
charitable organization which was striving to consecrate, according to law and religion, the
relations of those living in free union. To this end she selected one member of the society,
Adeline Hulot d'Ervy, and sent her to Passage du Soleil, then a section of Petite-Pologne,
to try to bring about the marriage of Vyder--Hector Hulot d'Ervy--and Atala Judici. [The Seamy
Side of History. Cousin Betty.] The Revolution having done away with titles, Madame de la Chanterie
called herself momentarily Madame, or Citizeness, Lechantre.

LACROIX, restaurant-keeper on Place du Marche, Issoudun, 1822, in whose house the Bonapartist
officers celebrated the crowning of the Emperor. On December 2, of the same year, the duel
between Philippe Bridau and Maxence took place after the entertainment. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

LAFERTE (Nicolas). (See Cochegrue, Jean.)

LA GARDE (Madame de). (See Aquilina.)

LA GAUDINIERE (Madame), born La Bertelliere, mother of Madame Felix Grandet; very avaricious;
died in 1806; leaving the Felix Grandets an inheritance, "the amount of which no one knew."
[Eugenie Grandet.]

LAGINSKI (Comte Adam Mitgislas), a wealthy man who had been proscribed, belonged to one of
the oldest and most illustrious families of Poland, and counted among his relations the Sapiehas,
the Radziwills, the Mniszechs, the Rezwuskis, the Czartoriskis, the Lecszinskis, and the Lubomirskis.
He had relations in the German nobility and his mother was a Radziwill. Young, plain, yet with
a certain distinguished bearing, with an income of eighty thousand francs, Laginski was a leading
light in Paris, during the reign of Louis Philippe. After the Revolution of July, while still
unsophisticated, he attended an entertainment at the home of Felicite des Touches in Chaussee-d'Antin
on rue du Mont-Blanc, and had the opportunity of listening to the delightful chats between
Henri de Marsay and Emile Blondet. Comte Adam Laginski, during the autumn of 1835, married
the object of his affections, Mademoiselle Clementine du Rouvre, niece of the Ronquerolles.
The friendship of his steward, Paz, saved him from the ruin into which his creole-like carelessness,
his frivolity and his recklessness were dragging him. He lived in perfect contentment with
his wife, ignorant of the domestic troubles which were kept from his notice. Thanks to the
devotion of Paz and of Madame Laginska, he was cured of a malady which had been pronounced
fatal by Doctor Horace Bianchon. Comte Adam Laginski lived on rue de la Pepiniere, now absorbed
in part by rue de la Boetie. He occupied one of the most palatial and artistic houses of the
period, so called, of Louis Philippe. He attended the celebration given in 1838 at the first
opening of Josepha Mirah's residence on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. In this same year he attended
the wedding of Wenceslas Steinbock. [Another Study of Woman. The Imaginary Mistress. Cousin Betty.]

LAGINSKA (Comtesse Adam), born Clementine du Rouvre in 1816, wife of the preceding, niece,
on her mother's side, of the Marquis de Ronquerolles and of Madame de Serizy. Captain Paz was
secretly in love with the countess, who, becoming aware of her steward's affection, ended by
having very nearly the same kind of feeling for him. The unselfish virtue of Paz was all that
saved her; not only at this juncture, but in another more dangerous one, when he rescued her
from M. de la Palferine, who was escorting her to the Opera ball and who was on the point of
taking her to a private room in a restaurant--January, 1842. [The Imaginary Mistress.]

LAGOUNIA (Perez de), woolen-draper at Tarragone in Catalonia, in the time of Napoleon, under
obligations to La Marana. He reared as his own daughter, in a very pious manner, Juana, a child
of the celebrated Italian courtesan, until her mother visited her, during the time of the French
occupation in 1808. [The Maranas.]

LAGOUNIA (Donna de), wife of the preceding, divided with him the care of Juana Marana until
the girl's mother came to Tarragone at the time it was sacked by the French. [The Maranas.]

LA GRAVE (Mesdemoiselles), kept a boarding-house in 1824 on rue Notre-Dame-des Champs in Paris.
In this house M. and Madame Phellion gave lessons. [The Government Clerks.]

LAGUERRE (Mademoiselle), given name, probably, Sophie, born in 1740, died in 1815, one of the
most celebrated courtesans of the eighteenth century; opera singer, and fervent follower of
Piccini. In 1790, frightened by the march of public affairs, she established herself at the
Aigues, in Bourgogne, property procured for her by Bouret, from its former owner. Before Buoret,
the grandfather of La Palferine, entertained her, and she brought about his ruin. The recklessness
of this woman, surrounded as she was by such notorious knaves as Gaubertin, Fourchon, Tonsard,
and Madame Soudry, prepared no little trouble for Montcornet, the succeeding proprietor. Sophie
Laguerre's fortune was divided among eleven families of poor farmers, all living in the neighborhood
of Amiens, who were ignorant of their relationship with her. [The Peasantry. A Prince of Bohemia.]
M. H. Gourdon de Genouillac wrote a biography of the singer, containing many details which
are at variance with the facts here cited. Among other things we are told that the given name
of Mademoiselle Laguerre was Josephine and not Sophie.

LA HAYE (Mademoiselle de). (See Petit-Claud, Madame.)

LAMARD, probably a rival of Felix Gaudissart. In a cafe in Blois, May, 1831, he praised the
well-known commercial traveler, who treated him, nevertheless, as a "little cricket." [Gaudissart
the Great.]

LAMBERT (Louis), born in 1797 at Montoire in Loire-et-Cher. Only son of simple tanners, who
did not try to counteract his inclination, shown when a mere child, for study. He was sent
in 1807 to Lefebvre, a maternal uncle, who was vicar of Mer, a small city on the Loire near
Blois. Under the kindly care of Madame de Stael, he was a student in the college of Vendome
from 1811 to 1814. Lambert met there Barchon de Penhoen and Jules Dufaure. He was apparently
a poor scholar, but finally developed into a prodigy; he suffered the persecutions of Father
Haugoult, by whose brutal hands his "Treatise on the Will," composed during class hours, was
seized and destroyed. The mathematician had already doubled his capacity by becoming a philosopher.
His comrades had named him Pythagoras. His course completed, and his father being dead, Louis
Lambert lived for two years at Blois, with Lefebvre, until, growing desirous of seeing Madame
de Stael, he journeyed to Paris on foot, arriving July 14, 1817. Not finding his illustrious
benefactress alive, he returned home in 1820. During these three years Lambert lived the life
of a workman, became a close friend of Meyraux, and was cherished and admired as a member of
the Cenacle on rue des Quatre-Vents, which was presided over by Arthez. Once more he went to
Blois, journeyed over Touraine, and became acquainted with Pauline Salomon de Villenoix, whom
he loved with a passion that was reciprocated. He had suffered from brain trouble previous
to their engagement, and as the wedding day approached the disease grew constantly worse, although
occasionally there were periods of relief. During one of these good periods, in 1822, Lambert
met the Cambremers at Croisic, and on the suggestion of Pauline de Villenoix, he made a study
of their history. The malady returned, but was interrupted occasionally by outburts of beautiful
thought, the fragments of which were collected by Mademoiselle Salomon. Louis had likewise
occasional fits of insanity. He believed himself powerless and wished, one day, to perform
on his own body Origene's celebrated operation. Lambert died September 25, 1824, the day before
the date selected for his marriage with Pauline. [Louis Lambert. A Distinguished Provincial
at Paris. A Seaside Tragedy.]

LAMBERT (Madame), lived in Paris in 1840. She was then at a very pious age, "played the saint,"
and performed the duties of housekeeper for M. Picot, professor of mathematics, No. 9, rue
du Val-de-Grace. In the service of this old philosopher she reaped enormous profits. Madame
Lambert hypocritically took advantage of her apparent devotion to him. She sought Theodose
de la Peyrade, and begged him to write a memorial to the Academy in her favor, for she longed
to receive the reward offered by Montyon. At the same time she put into La Peyrade's keeping
twenty-five thousand francs, which she had accumulated by her household thefts. On this occasion,
Madame Lambert seems to have been the secret instrument of Corentin, the famous police-agent.
[The Middle Classes.]

LANGEAIS (Duc de), a refugee during the Restoration, who planned, at the time of the Terror,
by correspondence with the Abbe de Marolles and the Marquis de Beauseant to help escape from
Paris, where they were in hiding, two nuns, one of whom, Sister Agathe, was a Langeais. [An
Episode Under the Terror.] In 1812 Langeais married Mademoiselle Antoinette de Navarreins,
who was then eighteen years old. He allowed his wife every liberty, and, neither abandoning
any of his habits, nor giving up any of his pleasures, he lived, indeed, apart from her. In
1818 Langeais commanded a division in the army and occupied a position at court. He died in
1823. [The Thirteen.]

LANGEAIS (Duchesse Antoinette de),[*] wife of the preceding, daughter of the Duc de Navarreins;
born in 1794; reared by the Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry, her aunt; grand-niece of the Vidame
de Pamiers; niece of the Duc de Grandlieu by her marriage. Very beautiful and intelligent,
Madame de Langeais reigned in Paris at the beginning of the Restoration. In 1819 her best friend
was the Vicomtesse Claire de Beauseant, whom she wounded cruelly, for her own amusement, calling
on her one morning for the express purpose of announcing the marriage of the Marquis d'Ajuda-Pinto.
Of this pitiless proceeding she repented later, and asked pardon, moreover, of the foresaken
woman. Soon afterwards the Duchesse de Langeais had the pleasure of captivating the Marquis
de Montriveau, playing for him the role of Celimene and making him suffer greatly. He had his
revenge, however, for, scorned in her turn, or believing herself scorned, she suddenly disappeared
from Paris, after having scandalized the whole Saint-Germain community by remaining in her
carriage for a long time in front of the Montriveau mansion. Some bare-footed Spanish Carmelites
received her on their island in the Mediterranean, where she became Sister Therese. After prolonged
searching Montriveau found her, and, in the presence of the mother-superior, had a conversation
with her as she stood behind the grating. Finally he managed to carry her off--dead. In this
bold venture the marquis was aided by eleven of The Thirteen, among them being Ronquerolles
and Marsay. The duchess, having lost her husband, was free at the time of her death in 1824.
[Father Goriot. The Thirteen.]

[*] At the Vaudeville and Gaite theatres in Paris, Ancelot and Alexis
    Decomberousse at the former, and Messieurs Ferdinand Dugue and
    Peaucellier at the latter, brought out plays founded on the life
    of Antoinette de Langeais, in 1834 and 1868 respectively.

LANGEAIS (Mademoiselle de). (See Agathe, Sister.)

LANGLUME, miller, a jolly impulsive little man, in 1823 deputy-mayor of Blangy in Bourgogne,
at the time of the political, territorial and financial contests of which the country was the
theatre, with Rigou and Montcornet as actors. He was of great service to Genevieve Niseron's
paternal grandfather. [The Peasantry.]

LANGUET, vicar, built Saint-Sulpice, and was an acquaintance of Toupillier, who asked alms
in 1840 at the doors of this church in Paris, which since 1860 has been one of the sixth ward
parish churches. [The Middle Classes.]

LANSAC (Duchesse de), of the younger branch of the Parisian house of Navarreins, 1809, the
proud woman who shone under Louis XV. The Duchesse de Lansac, in November of the same year,
consented, one evening, to meet Isemberg, Montcornet, and Martial de la Roche-Hugon in Malin
de Gondreville's house, for the purpose of conciliating her nephew and niece in their domestic
quarrel. [Domestic Peace.]

LANTIMECHE, born in 1770. In 1840, at Paris, a penniless journeyman locksmith and inventor,
he went to the money-lender, Cerizet, on rue des Poules, to borrow a hundred francs. [The Middle
Classes.]

LANTY (Comte de), owner of an expensive mansion near the Elysee-Bourbon, which he had bought
from the Marechal de Carigliano. He gave there under the Restoration some magnificent entertainments,
at which were present the upper classes of Parisian society, ignorant, though they were, of
the count's lineage. Lanty, who was a mysterious man, passed for a clever chemist. He had married
the rich niece of the peculiar eunuch, Zambinella, by whom he had two children, Marianina and
Filippo. [Sarrasine. The Member for Arcis.]

LANTY (Comtesse de), wife of the preceding, born in 1795, niece and likewise adopted daughter
of the wealthy eunuch, Zambinella, was the mistress of M. de Maucombe, by whom she had a daughter,
Marianina de Lanty. [Sarrasine. The Member for Arcis.]

LANTY (Marianina de), daughter of the preceding and according to law of the Comte de Lanty,
although she was in reality the daughter of M. de Maucombe; born in 1809. She bore a striking
resemblance to her sister, Renee de l'Estorade, born Maucombe. In 1825 she concealed, and lavished
care on her great-uncle, Zambinella. During her parents' sojourn in Rome she took lessons in
sculpture of Charles Dorlange, who afterwards, in 1839, became a member for Arcis, under the
name of Comte de Sallenauve. [Sarrasine. The Member for Arcis.]

LANTY (Filippo de), younger brother of the preceding, second child of the Comte and the Comtesse
de Lanty. Being young and handsome he was an attendant at the fetes given by his parents during
the Restoration. By his marriage, which took place under Louis Philippe, he became allied with
the family of a German grand duke. [Sarrasine. The Member for Arcis.]

LA PALFERINE (Gabriel-Jean-Anne-Victor-Benjamin-Georges-Ferdinand-Charles-Edouard-Rusticoli,
Comte de), born in 1802; of an ancient Italian family which had become impoverished; grandson
on the paternal side of one of the protectors of Josephine-Sophie Laguerre; descended indirectly
from the Comtesse Albany--whence his given name of Charles-Edouard. He had in his veins the
mixed blood of the condottiere and the gentleman. Under Louis Philippe, idle and fast going
to ruin, with his Louis XIII. cast of countenance, his evil-minded wit, his lofty independent
manners, insolent yet winning, he was a type of the brilliant Bohemian of the Boulevard de
Gand; so much so, that Madame de la Baudraye, basing her information on points furnished her
by Nathan, one day drew a picture of him, writing a description in which artificiality and
artlessness were combined. In this were many interesting touches: La Palferine's contempt shown
at all times for the bourgeois class and forms of government; the request for the return of
his toothbrush, then in the possession of a deserted mistress, Antonia Chocardelle; his relations
with Madame du Bruel, whom he laid siege to, won, and neglected--a yielding puppet, of whom,
strange to say, he broke the heart and made the fortune. He lived at that time in the Roule
addition, in a plain garret, where he was in the habit of receiving Zephirin Marcas. The wretchedness
of his quarters did not keep La Palferine out of the best society, and he was the guest of
Josepha Mirah at the first entertainment given in her house on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. By
a strange order of events, Comte Rusticoli became Beatrix de Rochefide's lover, a few years
after the events just narrated, at a time when the Debats published a novel by him which was
spoken of far and wide. Nathan laid the foundation for this affair. Trailles, Charles-Edouard's
master, carried on the negotiations and brought the intrigue to a consummation, being urged
on by the Abbe Brossette's assent and the Duchesse de Grandlieu's request. La Palferine's liaison
with Madame de Rochefide effected a reconciliation between Calyste du Guenic and his wife.
In the course of time, however, Comte Rusticoli deserted Beatrix and sent her back to her husband,
Arthur de Rochefide. During the winter of 1842 La Palferine was attracted to Madame de Laginska,
had some meetings with her, but failed in this affair through the intervention of Thaddee Paz.
[A Prince of Bohemia. A Man of Business. Cousin Betty. Beatrix. The Imaginary Mistress.]

LA PEYRADE (Charles-Marie-Theodose de), born near Avignon in 1813, one of eleven children of
the police-agent Peyrade's youngest brother, who lived in poverty on a small estate called
Canquoelle; a bold Southerner of fair skin; given to reflection; ambitious, tactful and astute.
In 1829 he left the department of Vaucluse and went to Paris on foot in search of Peyrade who,
he had reason to believe, was wealthy, but of whose business he was ignorant. Theodose departed
through the Barriere d'Enfer, which has been destroyed since 1860, at the moment when Jacques
Collin murdered his uncle. At that time he entered a house of ill-fame, where he had unwittingly
for mistress Lydie Peyrade, his full-blooded cousin. Theodose then lived for three years on
a hundred louis which Corentin had secretly given to him. On giving him the money, the national
chief of police quietly advised him to become an attorney. Journalism, however, at first, seemed
a tempting career to M. de la Peyrade, and he went into politics, finally becoming editor of
a paper managed by Cerizet. The failure of this journal left Theodose once more very poor.
Nevertheless, through Corentin, who secretly paid the expenses of his studies, he was able
to begin and continue a course in law. Once licensed, M. de la Peyrade became a barrister and
professing to be entirely converted to Socialism, he freely pleaded the cause of the poor before
the magistrate of the eleventh or twelfth district. He occupied the third story of the Thuillier
house on rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer. He fell into the hands of Dutocq and Cerizet and suffered
under the pressure of these grasping creditors. Theodose now decided that he would marry M.
Thuillier's natural daughter, Mademoiselle Celeste Colleville, but, with Felix Phellion's love
to contend with, despite the combined support, gained with difficulty, of Madame Colleville
and of M. and Mademoiselle Thuillier, he failed through Corentin's circumvention. His marriage
with Lydie Peyrade repaired the wrong which he had formerly done unwittingly. As successor
to Corentin he became national chief-of-police in 1840. Being somewhat in love, at that time,
with Lucien de Rubempre she was taken to a house of ill-fame, Peyrade being at the time very
ill. Upon her departure she was insane. Her own cousin, Theodose de la Peyrade, had been her
lover there, fortuitously and without dreaming that they were blood relatives. Corentin adopted
this insane girl, who was a talented musician and singer, and at his home on rue Honore-Chevalier,
in 1840, he arranged for both the cure and the marriage of his ward. [Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life. The Middle Classes.]

LA POURAILLE, usual surname of Dannepont.

LARAVINIERE, tavern-keeper in Western France, lodged "brigands" who had armed themselves as
Royalists under the first Empire. He was condemned, either by Bourlac or Mergi, to five years
in prison. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LARDOT (Madame), born in 1771, lived in Alencon in 1816 on rue du Cours--a street still bearing
the same name. She was a laundress, and took as boarders a relative named Grevin and the Chevalier
de Valois. She had among her employes Cesarine and Suzanne, afterwards Madame Theodore Gaillard.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

LAROCHE, born in 1763 at Blangy in Bourgogne, was, in 1823, an aged vine-dresser, who felt
a calm, relentless hatred for the rich, especially the Montcornets, occupants of Aigues. [The
Peasantry.]

LA ROCHE (Sebastien de), born early in the nineteenth century, was probably the son of an unpretentious,
retired Treasury clerk. In December, 1824, he found himself in Paris, poor, but capable and
zealous, as a supernumerary in the office of Xavier Rabourdin of the Department of Finance.
He lived with his widowed mother in the busiest part of Marais on rue du Roi-Dore. M. and Madame
Rabourdin received and gave him assistance by preparing a copy of a rare and mysterious government
work. The discovery of this book by Dutocq unfortunately resulted in the discharge of both
chief and clerk. [The Government Clerks.]

LA ROCHE-GUYON (De), the eldest of one of the oldest families in the section of Orne, at one
time connected with the Esgrignons, who visited them frequently. In 1805 he sued vainly, through
Maitre Chesnel, for the hand of Armande d'Esgrignon. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

LA ROCHE-HUGON (Martial de), shrewd, turbulent and daring Southerner, had a long and brilliant
administrative career in politics. Even in 1809 the Council of State employed him as one of
the masters of petitions. Napoleon Bonaparte was patron of this young Provencal. Also, in November
of the same year, Martial was invited to the fete given by Malin de Gondreville--a celebration
which the Emperor was vainly expected to attend. Montcornet was present, also the Duchesse
de Lansac, who succeeded in bringing about a reconciliation between her nephew and niece, M.
and Madame de Soulanges. M. de la Roche-Hugon's mistress, Madame de Vaudremont, was also in
attendance at this ball. For five years he had enjoyed a close friendship with Montcornet,
and this bond was lasting. In 1815 the securing of Aigues for Montcornet was undertaken by
Martial, who had served as prefect under the Empire, and retained his office under the Bourbons.
Thus from 1821 to 1823 M. de la Roche-Hugon was at the head of the department in Bourgogne,
which contained Aigues and Ville-aux-Fayes, M. des Lupeaulx's sub-prefecture. A dismissal from
this office, to which the Comte de Casteran succeeded, threw Martial into the opposition among
the Liberalists, but this was for a short time, as he soon accepted an embassy. Louis Philippe's
government honored M. de la Roche-Hugon by making him minister, ambassador, and counselor of
state. Eugene de Rastignac, who had favored him before, now gave him one of his sisters in
marriage. Several children resulted from this union. Martial continued to remain influential
and associated with the popular idols of the time, M. and Madame de l'Estorade. His relations
with the national chief of police, Corentin, in 1840, were also indicative of his standing.
As a deputy the next year M. de la Roche-Hugon probably filled the directorship in the War
Department, left vacant by Hector Hulot. (See Rastignac, Mesdemoiselles de.)

LA RODIERE (Stephanie de). (See Nueil, Madame Gaston de.)

LA ROULIE (Jacquin), chief huntsman of the Prince de Cadignan, took part with his master, in
1829, in the exciting hunt given in Normandie, in which as spectators or riders were the Mignons
de la Bastie, the Maufrigneuses, the Herouvilles, M. de Canalis, Eleonore de Chaulieu and Ernest
de la Briere. Jacquin la Roulie was at that time an old man and a firm believer in the French
school; he had an argument with John Barry, another guest, who defended English principles.
[Modeste Mignon.]

LARSONNIERE (M. and Madame de), formed the aristocracy of the little city of Saumur, of which
Felix Grandet had been mayor in the years just previous to the First Empire. [Eugenie Grandet.]

LA THAUMASSIERE (De), grandson of the Berry historian, a young land-owner, the dandy of Sancerre.
While present in Madame de la Baudraye's parlor, he had the misfortune to yawn during an exposition
which she was giving, for the fourth time, of Kant's philosophy; he was henceforth looked upon
as a man completely lacking in understanding and in soul. [The Muse of the Department.]

LATOURNELLE (Simon-Babylas), born in 1777, was notary at Havre, where he had bought the most
extensive practice for one hundred thousand francs, lent him in 1817 by Charles Mignon de la
Bastie. He married Mademoiselle Agnes Labrosse, having by her one son, Exupere. He remained
the intimate friend of his benefactors, the Mignons. [Modeste Mignon.]

LATOURNELLE (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Agnes Labrosse, daughter to the clerk of
the court of first instance at Havre. Tall and ungainly of figure, a bourgeoise of rather ancient
tastes, at the same time good-hearted, she had somewhat late in life, by her marriage, a son
whose given name was Exupere. She entertained Jean Butscha. Madame Latournelle was a frequent
visitor of the Mignons de la Bastie, and at all times testified her affection for them. [Modeste
Mignon.]

LATOURNELLE (Exupere), son of the preceding couple, went with them to visit the Mignons de
la Bastie, towards the end of the Restoration. He was then a tall, insignificant young man.
[Modeste Mignon.]

LAUDIGEOIS, married, head of a family, typical petty bourgeois, employed during the Restoration
by the mayor of the eleventh or twelfth ward in Paris, a position from which he was unjustly
expelled by Colleville in 1840. In 1824 an intimate neighbor of the Phellions, and exactly
like them in morals, he attended their informal card-party on Thursday evening. Laudigeois,
introduced by the Phellions, finally became a close friend of the Thuilliers, during the reign
of Louis Philippe. His civil statistical record should be corrected, as his name in several
of the papers is spelled Leudigeois. [The Government Clerks. The Middle Classes.]

LAURE, given name of a sweet and charming young peasant girl, who took Servin's course in painting
at Paris in 1815. She protected Ginevra di Piombo, an affectionate friend, who was her elder.
[The Vendetta.]

LAURENT, a Savoyard, Antoine's nephew; husband of an expert laundress of laces, mender of cashmeres,
etc. In 1824 he lived with them and their relative, Gabriel, in Paris. In the evening he was
door-keeper in a subsidized theatre; in the daytime he was usher in the Bureau of Finance.
In this position Laurent was first to learn of the worldly and official success attained by
Celestine Rabourdin, when she attempted to have Xavier appointed successor to Flamet de la
Billardiere. [The Government Clerks.]

LAURENT, Paris, 1815, M. Henri de Marsay's servant, equal to the Frontins of the old regime;
was able to obtain for his master, through the mail-carrier, Moinot, the address of Paquita
Valdes and other information about her. [The Thirteen.]

LAVIENNE, Jean-Jules Popinot's servant in Paris, rue du Fouarre, 1828; "made on purpose for
his master," whom he aided in his active philanthropy by redeeming and renewing pledges given
to the pawnbrokers. He took the place of his master in Palais de Justice during the latter's
absence. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

LAVRILLE, famous naturalist, employed in the Jardin des Plantes, and dwelling on rue de Buffon,
Paris, 1831. Consulted as to the shagreen, the enlargement of which was so passionately desired
by Raphael de Valentin, Lavrille could do nothing more than talk on the subject and sent the
young man to Planchette, the professor of mechanics. Lavrille, "the grand mogul of zoology,"
reduced science to a catalogue of names. He was then preparing a monograph on the duck family.
[The Magic Skin.]

LEBAS (Joseph), born in 1779, a penniless orphan, he was assisted and employed in Paris, first
by the Guillaumes, cloth-merchants on rue Saint-Denis, at the Cat and Racket. Under the First
Empire he married Virginie,[*] the elder of his employer's daughters, although he was in love
with the younger, Mademoiselle Augustine. He succeeded the Guilliaumes in business. [At the
Sign of the Cat and Racket.] During the first years of the Restoration he presided over the
Tribunal of Commerce. Joseph Lebas, who was intimate with M. and Madame Birotteau, attended
their ball with his wife. He also strove for Cesar's rehabilitation. [Cesar Birotteau.] During
the reign of Louis Philippe, having for an intimate friend Celestin Crevel, he retired from
business and lived at Corbeil. [Cousin Betty.]

[*] The names of Virginie and Augustine are confused in the original
    text.

LEBAS (Madame Joseph), wife of the preceding, born Virginie Guillaume in 1784, elder of Guillaume's
daughters, lived at the Cat and Racket; the counterpart, physically and morally, of her mother.
Under the First Empire, at the parish church of Saint-Leu, Paris, her marriage took place on
the same day that her younger sister, Augustine de Sommervieux, was wedded. The love which
she felt for her husband was not reciprocated. She viewed with indifference her sister's misfortunes,
became intimate in turn with the Birotteaus and the Crevels; and, having retired from business,
spent her last days in the middle of Louis Philippe's reign at Corbeil. [At the Sign of the
Cat and Racket. Cesar Birotteau. Cousin Betty.]

LEBAS, probably a son of the preceding. In 1836 first assistant of the king's solicitor at
Sancerre; two years later counselor to the court of Paris. In 1838 he would have married Hortense
Hulot if Crevel had not prevented the match. [The Muse of the Department. Cousin Betty.]

LEBOEUF, for a long time connected with the prosecuting attorney at Nantes, being president
of the court there in the latter part of Louis Philippe's reign. He was well acquainted with
the Camusot de Marvilles, and knew Maitre Fraisier, who claimed his acquaintance in 1845. [Cousin
Pons.]

LEBRUN, sub-lieutenant, then captain in the Seventy-second demi-brigade, commanded by Hulot
during the war against the Chouans in 1799. [The Chouans.]

LEBRUN, division-chief in the War Department in 1838. Marneffe was one of his employes. [Cousin
Betty.]

LEBRUN, protege, friend and disciple of Doctor Bouvard. Being a physician at the prison in
May, 1830, he was called upon to establish the death of Lucien de Rubempre. [Scenes from a
Courtesan's Life.] In 1845 Lebrun was chief physician of the Parisian boulevard theatre, managed
by Felix Gaudissart. [Cousin Pons.]

LECAMUS (Baron de Tresnes), counselor to the royal court of Paris, lived, in 1816, rue Chanoinesse,
with Madame de la Chanterie. Known there by the name of Joseph, he was a Brother of Consolation
in company with Montauran, Alain, Abbe de Veze and Godefroid. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LECHESNEAU, through the influence of Cambaceres and Bonaparte, appointed attorney-general in
Italy, but as a result of his many disreputable love-affairs, despite his real capacity for
office-holding, he was forced to give up his position. Between the end of the Republic and
the beginning of the Empire he became head of the grand jury at Troyes. Lechesneau, who had
been repeatedly bribed by Senator Malin, had to occupy himself in 1806 with the Hauteserre-Simeuse-Michu
affair. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

LECLERQ, native of Bourgogne, commissioner for the vinters in the department to which Ville-aux-Fayes,
a sub-prefecture of this same province, belonged. He was of service to Gaubertin, Madame Soudry,
also Rigon, perhaps, and was in turn under obligations to them. Having arranged a partnership
he founded the house of "Leclerq & Company," on Quai de Bethune, Ile Saint-Louis, Paris, in
competition with the well-known house of Grandet. In 1815 Leclerq married Jenny Gaubertin.
As a banker he dealt in wine commissions, and became regent of the National Bank. During the
Restoration he represented as deputy on the Left Centre the district of Ville-aux-Fayes, and
not far from the sub-prefecture, in 1823, bought a large estate, which brought thirty thousand
francs rental. [The Peasantry.]

LECLERQ (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Jenny Gaubertin, eldest daughter of Gaubertin,
steward of Aigues in Bourgogne, received two hundred thousand francs as dowry. [The Peasantry.]

LECLERQ, brother-in-law of the preceding, during the Restoration was special collector at Ville-aux-Fayes,
Bourgogne, and joined the other members of his family in worrying, more or less, the Comte
de Montcornet. [The Peasantry.]

LECOCQ, a trader, whose failure was very cleverly foretold by Guillaume at the Cat and Racket.
This failure was Guillaume's Battle of Marengo. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

LEFEBVRE, Louis Lambert's uncle, was successively oratorian, sworn priest and cure of Mer,
a small city near Blois. Had a delightful disposition and a heart of rare tenderness. He exercised
a watchful care over the childhood and youth of his remarkable nephew. The Abbe Lefebvre later
on lived at Blois, the Restoration having caused him to lose his position. In 1822, under form
of a letter sent from Croisic, he was the first to receive information concerning the Cambremers.
The next year, having become much older in appearance, while riding in a stage-coach he told
of the frightful state of suffering, sometimes mingled with remarkable displays of intellect,
which preceded the death of Louis Lambert. [Louis Lambert. A Seaside Tragedy.]

LEFEBVRE (Robert), well-known French painter of the First Empire. In 1806, at the expense of
Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, he painted Michu's portrait. [The Gondreville Mystery.] Among the many
paintings executed by Robert Lefebvre is a portrait of Hulot d'Ervy dressed in the uniform
of chief commissary of the Imperial Guard. This is dated 1810. [Cousin Betty.]

LEGANES (Marquis de), Spanish grandee, married, father of two daughters, Clara and Mariquita,
and of three sons, Juanito, Philippe and Manuel. He manifested a spirit of patriotism in the
war carried on against the French during the Empire and died then under the most tragic circumstances,
in which Mariquita was an unwilling abettor. The Marquis de Leganes died by the hand of his
eldest son, who had been condemned to be his executioner. [El Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Marquise de), wife of the preceding and condemned to die with the other members of
the family by the hand of her eldest son. She spared him the necessity of doing this terrible
deed of war by committing suicide. [El Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Clara de), daughter of the preceding couple; also shared the condemnation of the Marquis
de Leganes and died by the hand of Juanito. [El Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Mariquita de), sister of the preceding, had rescued Major Victor Marchand of the French
infantry from danger in 1808. In testimony of his gratitude he was able to obtain pardon for
one member of the Leganes family, but with the horribly cruel provision that the one spared
should become executioner of the rest of the family. [El Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Juanito de), brother of the last-named, born in 1778. Small and of poor physique,
of gentlemanly manners, yet proud and scornful, he was gifted with that delicacy of feeling
which in olden times caused Spanish gallantry to be so well known. Upon the earnest request
of his proud-spirited family he consented to execute his father, his two sisters and his two
brothers. Juanito only was saved from death, that his family might not become extinct. [El
Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Philippe de), younger brother of the preceding, born in 1788, a noble Spaniard condemned
to death; executed by his elder brother in 1808, during the war waged against the French. [El
Verdugo.]

LEGANES (Manuel de), born in 1800, youngest of the five Leganes children, suffered, in 1808,
during the war waged by the French in Spain, the fate of his father, the marquis, and of his
elder brother and sisters. The youngest scion of this noble family died by the hand of Juanito
de Leganes. [El Verdugo.]

LEGER, extensive farmer of Beaumont-sur-Oise, married daughter of Reybert, Moreau's successor
as exciseman of the Presles estate, belonging to the Comte de Serizy; had by his wife a daughter
who became, in 1838, Madame Joseph Bridau. [A Start in Life.]

LEGRELU, a bald-headed man, tall and good-looking; in 1840 became a vintner in Paris on rue
des Canettes, corner of rue Guisarde. Toupillier, Madame Cardinal's uncle, the "pauper of Saint-Sulpice,"
was his customer. [The Middle Classes.]

LELEWEL, a nineteenth century revolutionist, head of the Polish Republican party in Paris in
1835. One of his friends was Doctor Moise Halpersohn. [The Imaginary Mistress. The Seamy Side
of History.]

LEMARCHAND. (See Tours, Minieres des.)

LEMIRE, professor of drawing in the Imperial Lyceum, Paris, in 1812; foresaw the talent of
Joseph Bridau, one of his pupils, for painting, and threw the future artist's mother into consternation
by telling her of this fact. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

LEMPEREUR, in 1819, Chaussee-d'Antin, Paris, clerk to Charles Claparon, at that time "straw-man"
of Tillet, Roguin & Company. [Cesar Birotteau.]

LEMPRUN, born in 1745, son-in-law of Galard, market-gardener of Auteuil. Employed, in turn,
in the houses of Thelusson and of Keller in Paris, he was probably the first messenger in the
service of the Bank of France, having entered that establishment when it was founded. He met
Mademoiselle Brigitte Thuillier during this period of his life, and in 1814 gave Celeste, his
only daughter, in marriage to Brigitte's brother, Louis-Jerome Thuillier. M. Lemprun died the
year following. [The Middle Classes.]

LEMPRUN (Madame), wife of the preceding, daughter of Galard, the market-gardener of Auteuil,
mother of one child--Madame Celeste Thuillier. She lived in the village of Auteuil from 1815
until the time of her death in 1829. She reared Celeste Phellion, daughter of L.-J. Thuillier
and of Madame de Colleville. Madame Lemprun left a small fortune inherited from her father,
M. Galard, which was administered by Brigitte Thuillier. This Lemprun estate consisted of twenty
thousand francs, saved by the strictest economy, and of a house which was sold for twenty-eight
thousand francs. [The Middle Classes.]

LEMULQUINIER, a native of Flanders, owed his name to the linen-yarn dealers of that province,
who are called mulquiniers. He lived in Douai, was the valet of Balthazar Claes, and encouraged
and aided his master in his foolish investigations, despite the extreme coldness of his own
nature and the opposition of Josette, Martha, and the women of the Claes family. Lemulquinier
even went so far as to give all his personal property to M. Claes. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

LENONCOURT (De), born in 1708, marshal of France, marquis at first, then duke, was the friend
of Victor-Amedee de Verneuil, and adopted Marie de Verneuil, the acknowledged natural daughter
of his old comrade, when the latter died. Suspected unjustly of being this young girl's lover,
the septuagenarian refused to marry her, and leaving her behind he changed his place of residence
to Coblentz. [The Chouans.]

LENONCOURT (Duc de), father of Madame de Mortsauf. The early part of the Restoration was the
brilliant period of his career. He obtained a peerage, owned a house in Paris on rue Saint-Dominique-Saint-Germain,
looked after Birotteau and found him a situation just after his failure. Lenoncourt played
for the favor of Louis XVIII., was first gentleman in the king's chamber, and welcomed Victurnien
d'Esgrignon, with whom he had some relationship. The Duc de Lenoncourt was, in 1835, visiting
the Princesse de Cadignan, when Marsay explained the reasons the political order had for the
mysterious kidnapping of Gondreville. Three years later he died a very old man. [The Lily of
the Valley.]

LENONCOURT-GIVRY (Duc de), youngest son of M. and Madame de Chaulieu, at first followed a military
career. Titles and names in abundance came to him. In 1827 he married Madeleine de Mortsauf,
the only heir of her parents. [Letters of Two Brides.] The Duc de Lenoncourt-Givry was a man
of some importance in the Paris of Louis Philippe and was invited to the festival at the opening
of Josepha Mirah's new house, rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. [Cousin Betty.] The year following
attention was still turned towards him indirectly, when Sallenauve was contending in defence
of the duke's brother-in-law. [The Member for Arcis.]

LENONCOURT-GIVRY (Duchesse de), wife of the preceding, bore the first name of Madeleine. Madame
de Lenoncourt-Givry was one of two children of the Comte and Comtesse de Mortsauf. She lived
almost alone in her family, having lost at an early age her mother, then her brother Jacques.
While passing her girlhood in Touraine, she met Felix de Vandenesse, from whom she knew how
to keep aloof on becoming an orphan. Her inheritance of names, titles and wealth brought about
her marriage with the youngest son of M. and Madame de Chaulieu in 1827, and established for
her a friendship with the Grandlieus, whose daughter, Clotilde, accompanied her to Italy about
1830. During the first day of their journey the arrest of Lucien Chardon de Rubempre took place
under their eyes near Bouron, Seine-et-Marne. [The Lily of the Valley. Letters of Two Brides.
Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

LENORMAND was court registrar at Paris during the Restoration, and did Comte Octave de Bauvan
a service by passing himself off as owner of a house on rue Saint-Maur, which belonged in reality
to the count and where the wife of that high magistrate lived, at that time being separated
from her husband. [Honorine.]

LEOPOLD, a character in "L'Ambitieux par Amour," a novel by Albert Savarus, was Maitre Leopold
Hannequin. The author pictured him as having a strong passion--imaginary or true--for the mother
of Rodolphe, the hero of this autobiographical novel, published by the "Revue de l'Est" under
the reign of Louis Philippe. [Albert Savarus.]

LEPAS (Madame de), for a long time keeper of a tavern at Vendome, of Flemish physique; acquainted
with M. and Madame de Merret, and furnished information about them to Doctor Horace Bianchon;
Comte Bagos de Feredia, who died so tragically, having been a lodger in her house. She was
also interviewed by the author, who, under the name of Valentine, gave on the stage of the
Gymnase-Dramatique the story of the incontinence and punishment of Josephine de Merret. This
Vendome tavern-keeper pretended also to have lodged some princesses, M. Decazes, General Bertrand,
the King of Spain, and the Duc and Duchesse of d'Abrantes. [La Grande Bretche.]

LEPITRE, strong Royalist, had some relations with M. de Vandenesse, when they wished to rescue
Marie-Antoinette from the Temple. Later, under the Empire, having become head of an academy,
in the old Joyeuse house, Quartier Saint-Antoine, Paris, Lepitre counted among his pupils a
son of M. de Vandenesse, Felix. Lepitre was fat, like Louis XVIII., and club-footed. [The Lily
of the Valley.]

LEPITRE (Madame), wife of the preceding, reared Felix de Vandenesse. [The Lily of the Valley.]

LEPRINCE (Monsieur and Madame). M. Leprince was a Parisian auctioneer towards the end of the
Empire and at the beginning of the Restoration. He finally sold his business at a great profit;
but being injured by one of Nucingen's failures, he lost in some speculations on the Bourse
some of the profits that he had realized. He was the father-in-law of Xavier Rabourdin, whose
fortune he risked in these dangerous speculations, that his son-in-law's domestic comfort might
be increased. Crushed by misfortune he died under Louis XVIII., leaving some rare paintings
which beautified the parlor of his children's home on rue Duphot. Madame Leprince, who died
before the bankrupt auctioneer, a distinguished woman and a natural artist, worshiped and,
consequently, spoiled her only child, Celestine, who became Madame Xavier Rabourdin. She communicated
to her daughter some of her own tastes, and thoughtlessly, perhaps, developed in her a love
of luxury, intelligent and refined. [The Government Clerks.]

LEROI (Pierre), called also Marche-a-terre, a Fougeres Chouan, who played an important part
during the civil war of 1799 in Bretagne, where he gave evidence of courage and heartlessness.
He survived the tragedy of this period, for he was seen on the Place d'Alencon in 1809 when
Cibot--Pille-Miche--was tried at the bar as a chauffeur and attempted to escape. In 1827, nearly
twenty years later, this same Pierre Leroi was known as a peaceable cattle-trader in the markets
of his province. [The Chouans. The Seamy Side of History. Jealousies of a Country Town.]

LEROI (Madame), mother of the preceding, being ill, was cured on coming to Fougeres to pray
under the oak of the Patte-d'Oie. This tree was decorated with a beautiful wooden image of
the Virgin, placed there in memory of Sainte-Anne d'Auray's appearance in this place. [The
Chouans.]

LESEIGNEUR DE ROUVILLE (Baronne), pensionless widow of a sea-captain who had died at Batavia,
under the Republic, during a prolonged engagement with an English vessel; mother of Madame
Hippolyte Schinner. Early in the nineteenth century she lived at Paris with her unmarried daughter,
Adelaide. On the fourth story of a house belonging to Molineux, on rue de Surene, near the
Madeleine, Madame Leseigneur occupied unadorned and gloomy apartments. There she frequently
received Hippolyte Schinner, Messieurs du Halga and de Kergarouet. She received from two of
these friends many delicate marks of sympathy, despite the gossip of the neighbors who were
astonished that Madame de Rouville and her daughter should have different names, and shocked
by their very suspicious behavior. The manner in which Mesdames Leseigneur recognized the good
offices of Schinner led to his marriage with Mademoiselle de Rouville. [The Purse.]

LESEIGNEUR (Adelaide). (See Schinner, Madame Hippolyte.)

LESOURD, married the eldest daughter of Madame Guenic of Provins, and toward the end of the
Restoration presided over the justice court of that city, of which he had first been king's
attorney. In 1828 he was able, indeed, to defend Pierrette Lorrain, thus showing his opposition
to the local Liberalist leaders, represented by Rogron, Vinet and Gourand. [Pierrette.]

LESOURD (Madame), wife of the preceding and eldest daughter of Madame Guenee; for a long time
called in Provins, "the little Madame Lesourd." [Pierrette.]

LEVEILLE (Jean-Francois), notary in Alencon, inflexible correspondent of the Royalists of Normandie
under the Empire. He issued arms to them, received the surname of Confesseur, and, in 1809,
was put to death with others as the result of a judgment rendered by Bourlac. [The Seamy Side
of History.]

LEVRAULT, enriched by the iron industry in Paris, died in 1813; former owner of the house in
Nemours which came into the possession finally of Doctor Minoret, who lived there in 1815.
[Ursule Mirouet.]

LEVRAULT-CREMIERE, related to the preceding, an old miller, who became a Royalist under the
Restoration; he was mayor of Nemours from 1829 to 1830, and was replaced after the Revolution
of July by the notary, Cremiere-Dionis. [Ursule Mirouet.]

LEVRAULT-LEVRAULT, eldest son, thus named to distinguish him from his numerous relatives of
the same name; he was a butcher in Nemours in 1829, when Ursule Mirouet was undergoing persecution.
[Ursule Mirouet.]

LIAUTARD (Abbe), in the first years of the nineteenth century was at the head of an institution
of learning in Paris; had among his pupils Godefroid, Madame de la Chanterie's lodger in 1836
and future Brother of Consolation. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LINA (Duc de), an Italian, at Milan early in the century, one of the lovers of La Marana, the
mother of Madame Diard. [The Miranas.]

LINET (Jean-Baptiste-Robert, called Robert), member of the Legislature and of the Convention,
born at Bernay in 1743, died at Paris in 1825; minister of finance under the Republic, weakened
Antoine and the Poiret brothers by giving them severe work, although twenty-five years later
they were still laboring in the Treasury. [The Government Clerks.]

LISIEUX (Francois), called the Grand-Fils (grandson), a rebel of the department of Mayenne;
chauffeur under the First Empire and connected with the Royalist insurrection in the West,
which caused Madame de la Chanterie's imprisonment. [The Seamy Side of History.]

LISTOMERE (Marquis de) son of the "old Marquise de Listomere"; deputy of the majority under
Charles X., with hopes of a peerage; husband of Mademoiselle de Vandenesse the elder, his cousin.
One evening in 1828, in his own house on rue Saint-Dominique, he was quietly reading the "Gazette
de France" without noticing the flirtation carried on at his side by his wife and Eugene de
Rastignac, then twenty-five years old. [The Lily of the Valley. Like her husband and cousin,
during the early years of the Restoration, she was a brilliant type of the period, combining,
as she did, godliness with worldliness, occasionally figuring in politics, and concealing her
youth under the guise of austerity. However, in 1828, her mask seemed to fall at the moment
when Madame de Mortsauf died; for, then, she wrongly fancied herself the object of Eugene de
Rastignac's wooing. Under Louis Philippe she took part in an intrigue formed for the purpose
of throwing her sister-in-law, Marie de Vandenesse, into the power of Raoul Nathan. [The Lily
of the Valley. She lived in Paris at an advanced age in Ile Saint-Louis, during the early years
of the nineteenth century; received on his holidays her grand-nephew, Felix de Vandenesse,
then a student, and frightened him by the solemn or frigid appearance of everything about her.
[The Lily of the Valley.]

LISTOMERE (Baronne de), had been the wife of a lieutenant-general. As a widow she lived in
the city of Tours under the Restoration, assuming all the grand airs of the past centuries.
She helped the Birotteau brothers. In 1823 she received the army paymaster, Gravier, and the
terrible Spanish husband who killed the French surgeon, Bega. Madame de Listomere died, and
her wish to make Francois Birotteau her partial heir was not executed. [The Vicar of Tours.
Cesar Birotteau. The Muse of the Department.]

LISTOMERE (Baron de), nephew of the preceding, born in 1791; was in turn lieutenant and captain
in the navy. During a leave of absence spent with his aunt at Tours he began to intervene in
favor of the persecuted abbe, Francois Birotteau, but finally opposed him upon learning of
the power of the Congregation, and that the priest's name figured in the Baronne de Listomere's
will. [The Vicar of Tours.]

LISTOMERE (Comtesse de), old, lived in Saint-Germain suburbs of Paris, in 1839. At the Austrian
embassy she became acquainted with Rastignac, Madame de Nucingen, Ferdinand du Tillet and Maxime
de Trailles. [The Member for Arcis.]

LISTOMERE-LANDON (Marquise de), born in Provence, 1744; lady of the eighteenth century aristocracy,
had been the friend of Duclos and Marechal de Richelieu. Later she lived in the city of Tours,
where she tried to help by unbiased counsel her unsophisticated niece by marriage, the Marquise
Victor d'Aiglemont. Gout and her happiness over the return of the Duc d'Angouleme caused Madame
de Listomere's death in 1814. [A Woman of Thirty.]

LOLOTTE. (See Topinard, Madame.)

LONGUEVILLE (De), noble and illustrious family, whose last scion, the Duc de Rostein-Limbourg,
executed in 1793, belonged to the younger branch. [The Ball at Sceaux.]

LONGUEVILLE, deputy under Charles X., son of an attorney, without authority placed the particle
de before his name. M. Longueville was connected with the house of Palma, Werbrust & Co.; he
was the father of Auguste, Maximilien and Clara; desired a peerage for himself and a minister's
daughter for his elder son, who had an income of fifty thousand francs. [The Ball at Sceaux.]

LONGUEVILLE (Auguste), son of the preceding, born late in the eighteenth century, possessed
an income of fifty thousand francs; married, probably a minister's daughter; was secretary
of an embassy; met Madame Emilie de Vandenesse during a vacation which he was spending in Paris,
and told her the secret of his family. Died young, while employed in the Russian embassy. [The
Ball at Sceaux.]

LONGUEVILLE (Maximilien), one of Longueville's three children, sacrificed himself for his brother
and sister; entered business, lived on rue du Sentier--then no longer called rue du Groschenet;
was employed in a large linen establishment, situated near rue de la Paix; fell passionately
in love with Emilie de Fontaine, who became Madame Charles de Vandenesse. She ceased to reciprocate
his passion upon learning that he was merely a novelty clerk. However, M. Longueville, as a
result of the early death of his father and of his brother, became a banker, a member of the
nobility, a peer, and finally the Vicomte "Guiraudin de Longueville." [The Ball at Sceaux.]

LONGUEVILLE (Clara), sister of the preceding; she was probably born during the Empire; was
a very refined young woman of frail constitution, but good complexion; lived in the time of
the Restoration; was companion and protegee of her elder brother, Maximilien, future Vicomte
Guiraudin, and was cordially received at the Planat de Baudry's pavilion, situated in the valley
of Sceaux, where she was a good friend of the last unmarried heiress of Comte de Fontaine.
[The Ball at Sceaux.]

LORA (Leon de), born in 1806, descendant of a noble family of Roussillon, of Spanish origin;
penniless son of Comte Fernand Didas y Lora and Leonie de Lora, born Gazonal; younger brother
of Juan de Lora, nephew of Mademoiselle Urraca y Lora; he left his native country at an early
age. His family, with the exception of his mother, who died, remained at home long after his
departure, but he never inquired concerning them. He went to Paris, where, having entered the
artist, Schinner's, studio, under the name of Mistigris, he became celebrated for his animation
and repartee. From 1820 he shone in this way, rarely leaving Joseph Bridau--a friend whom he
accompanied to the Comte de Serizy's at Presles in the valley of Oise. Later Leon protected
his very sympathetic but commonplace countryman, Pierre Grassou. In 1830 he became a celebrity.
Arthez entrusted to him the decoration of a castle, and Leon de Lora forthwith showed himself
to be a master. Some years later he took a tour through Italy with Felicite des Touches and
Claude Vignon. Being present when the domestic troubles of the Bauvans were recounted, Lora
was able to give a finished analysis of Honorine's character to M. de l'Hostal. Being a guest
at all the social feasts and receptions he was in attendance at one of Mademoiselle Brisetout's
gatherings on rue Chauchat. There he met Bixiou, Etienne Lousteau, Stidmann and Vernisset.
He visited the Hulots frequently and their intimate friends. With the aid of Joseph Bridau
he rescued W. Steinbock from Clichy, saw him marry Hortense, and was invited to the second
marriage of Valerie Marneffe. He was then the greatest living painter of landscapes and sea-pieces,
a prince of repartee and dissipation, and dependent on Bixiou. Fabien du Ronceret gave to him
the ornamentation of an apartment on rue Blanche. Wealthy, illustrious, living on rue Berlin,
the neighbor of Joseph Bridau and Schinner, member of the Institute, officer of the Legion
of Honor, Leon, assisted by Bixiou, received his cousin Palafox Gazonal, and pointed out to
him many well-known people about town. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

LORAUX (Abbe), born in 1752, of unattractive bearing, yet the very soul of tenderness. Confessor
of the pupils of the Lycee Henry IV., and of Agathe Bridau; for twenty-five years vicar of
Saint-Sulpice at Paris; in 1818 confessor of Cesar Birotteau; became in 1819 cure of the Blancs-Manteaux
in Marais parish. He thus became a neighbor of Octave de Bauvan, in whose home he placed in
1824 M. de l'Hostal, his nephew and adopted son. Loraux, who was the means of restoring to
Bauvan the Comtesse Honorine, received her confessions. He died in 1830, she being his nurse
at the time. [A Start in Life. A Bachelor's Establishment. Cesar Birotteau. Honorine.]

LORRAIN, petty merchant of Pen-Hoel in the beginning of the nineteenth century; married and
had a son, whose wife and child, Pierrette, he took care of after his son's death. Lorrain
was completely ruined later, and took refuge in a home for the old and needy, confiding Pierrette,
both of whose parents were now dead, to the care of some near relatives, the Rogrons of Provins.
Lorrain's death took place previously to that of his wife. [Pierrette.]

LORRAIN (Madame), wife of the preceding, and grandmother of Pierrette; born about 1757; lived
the simple life of her husband, to whom she bore some resemblance. A widow towards the end
of the Restoration, she became comfortably situated after the return of Collinet of Nantes.
Upon going to Provins to recover her granddaughter, she found her dying; went into retirement
in Paris, and died soon after, making Jacques Brigaut her heir. [Pierrette.]

LORRAIN, son of the preceding couple, Bretagne; captain in the Imperial Guard; major in the
line; married the second daughter of a Provins grocer, Auffray, through whom he had Pierrette;
died a poor man, on the battlefield of Montereau, February 18, 1814. [Pierrette.]

LORRAIN (Madame), wife of the preceding and mother of Pierrette; born Auffray in 1793; half
sister to the mother of Sylvie and Denis Rogron of Provins. In 1814, a poor widow, still very
young, she lived with the Lorrains of Pen-Hoel, a town in the Vendean Marais. It is said that
she was consoled by the ex-major, Brigaut, of the Catholic army, and survived the unfortunate
marriage of Madame Neraud, widow of Auffray, and maternal grandmother of Pierrette, only three
years. [Pierrette.]

LORRAIN (Pierrette), daughter of the preceding, born in the town of Pen-Hoel in 1813; lost
her father when fourteen months old and her mother when six years old; lovable disposition,
delicate and unaffected. After a happy childhood, spent with her excellent maternal grandparents
and a playmate, Jacques Brigaut, she was sent to some first maternal cousins of Provins, the
wealthy Rogrons, who treated her with pitiless severity. Pierrette died on Easter Tuesday,
March, 1828, as the result of sickness brought on by the brutality of her cousin, Sylvie Rogron,
who was extremely envious of her. A trial of her persecutors followed her death, and, despite
the efforts of old Madame Lorrain, Jacques Brigaut, Martener, Desplein and Bianchon, her assailants
escaped through the craftily exerted influence of Vinet. [Pierrette.]

LOUCHARD, the craftiest bailiff of Paris; undertook the recovery of Esther van Gobseck, who
had escaped from Frederic de Nucingen; did business with Maitre Fraisier. [Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life. Cousin Pons.]

LOUCHARD (Madame), wife of the preceding, did not live with him; acquainted with Madame Komorn
de Godollo and, in 1840, furnished her information about Theodose de la Peyrade. [The Middle
Classes.]

LOUDON (Prince de), general in the Vendean cavalry, lived at Le Mans during the Terror. He
was brother of a Verneuil who was guillotined, was noted for "his boldness and the martyrdom
of his punishment." [The Chouans. Modeste Mignon.]

LOUDON (Prince Gaspard de), born in 1791, third and only surviving son of the Duc de Verneuil's
four children; fat and commonplace, having, very inappropriately, the same name as the celebrated
Vendean cavalry general; became probably Desplein's son-in-law. He took part in 1829 in a great
hunt given in Normandie, in company with the Herouvilles, the Cadignans and the Mignons. [Modeste
Mignon.]

LOUIS XVIII. (Louis-Stanislas-Xavier), born at Versailles, November 16, 1754, died September
16, 1824, King of France. He was in political relations with Alphonse de Montauran, Malin de
Gondreville, and some time before this, under the name of the Comte de Lille, with the Baronne
de la Chanterie. He considered Peyrade an able officer and was his patron. King Louis XVIII.,
friend of the Comte de Fontaine, engaged Felix de Vandenesse as secretary. His last mistress
was the Comtesse Ferraud. (Cousin Betty.]

LOURDOIS, during the Empire wealthy master-painter of interiors; contractor with thirty thousand
francs income, of Liberal views. Charged an enormous sum for the famous decorations in Cesar
Birotteau's apartments, where he was a guest with his wife and daughter at the grand ball of
December 17, 1818. After the failure of the perfumer, a little later, he treated him somewhat
slightingly. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket. Cesar Birotteau.]

LOUSTEAU, sub-delegate at Issoudun and afterwards the intimate friend of Doctor Rouget, at
that time his enemy, because the doctor was possibly the father of Mademoiselle Agathe Rouget,
then become Madame Bridau. Lousteau died in 1800. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

LOUSTEAU (Etienne), son of the preceding, born at Sancerre in 1799, nephew of Maximilienne
Hochon, born Lousteau, school-mate of Doctor Bianchon. Urged on by his desire for a literary
vocation, he entered Paris without money, in 1819, made a beginning with poetry, was the literary
partner of Victor Ducange in a melodrama played at the Gaite in 1821, undertook the editing
of a small paper devoted to the stage, of which Andoche Finot was proprietor. He had at that
time two homes, one in the Quartier Latin, rue de la Harpe, above the Servel cafe, another
on rue de Bondy, with Florine his mistress. Not having a better place, he became at times Flicoteaux's
guest, in company with Daniel d'Arthez and especially Lucien de Rubempre, whom he trained,
piloted, and introduced to Dauriat, in fact, whose first steps he aided, not without feeling
regret later in life. For one thousand francs per month, Lousteau rid Philippe Bridau of his
wife, Flore, placing her in a house of ill-fame. He was at the Opera, the evening of the masque
ball of the year 1824, where Blondet, Bixiou, Rastignac, Jacques Collin, Chatelet and Madame
d'Espard discovered Lucien de Rubempre with Esther Gobseck. Lousteau wrote criticisms, did
work for various reviews, and for Raoul Nathan's gazette. He lived on rue des Martyrs, and
was Madame Schontz's lover. During this liaison, Lousteau, for the sum of five hundred francs,
gave to Fabien du Ronceret a discourse to be read at a horticultural exhibition, for which
the latter was decorated. He attended a house-warming at Mademoiselle Brisetout's, rue Chauchat;
asked Dinah and Nathan for the purpose or moral of the "Prince of Bohemia." Lousteau's manner
of living underwent little change when Madame de la Baudraye left him. He heard Maitre Desroches
recount one of Cerizet's adventures, saw Madame Marneffe marry Crevel, took charge of the "Echo
de la Bievre," and undertook the management of a theatre with Ridal, the author of vaudevilles.
She tried to kill herself at the same time she killed him, but did not succeed. Charles de
Sallenauve--Dorlange--protected her, taking care of her when she became a widow, and made her
his housekeeper in 1839. Luigia soon left her benefactor, the voice of slander having accused
them in their mutually innocent relations. [The Member for Arcis.]

LUPEAULX (Clement Chardin des), officer and politician, born about 1785; left in good circumstances
by his father; who was ennobled by Louis XV., his coat-of-arms showing "a ferocious wolf of
sable bearing a lamb in its jaws," with this motto: "En lupus in historia." A shrewd and ambitious
man, ready for all enterprises, even the most compromising, Clement des Lupeaulx knew how to
make himself of service to Louis XVIII. in several delicate undertakings. Many influential
members of the aristocracy placed in his hands their difficult business and their lawsuits.
He served thus as mediator between the Duc de Navarreins and Polydore Milaud de la Baudraye,
and attained a kind of mightiness that Annette seemed to fear would be disastrous to Charles
Grandet. He accumulated duties and ranks, was master of petitions in the Council of State,
secretary-general to the minister of finance, colonel in the National Guard, government commissioner
in a joint-stock company; also provided with an inspectorship in the king's house, he became
Chevalier de Saint-Louis and officer of the Legion of Honor. An open follower of Voltaire,
but an attendant at mass, at all times a Bertrand in pursuit of a Raton, egotistic and vain,
a glutton and a libertine, this man of intellect, sought after in all social circles, a kind
of minister's "household drudge," openly lived, until 1825, a life of pleasure and anxiety,
striving for political success and love conquests. As mistresses he is known to have had Esther
van Gobseck, Flavie Colleville; perhaps, even, the Marquise d'Espard. He was seen at the Opera
ball in the winter of 1824, at which Lucien de Rubempre reappeared. The close of this year
brought about considerable change in the Secretary-General's affairs. Crippled by debt, and
in the power of Gobseck, Bidault and Mitral, he was forced to give up one of the treasury departments
to Isidore Baudoyer, despite his personal liking for Rabourdin. He gained as a result of this
stroke a coronet and a deputyship. He had ambitions for a peerage, the title of gentleman of
the king's chamber, a membership in the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles-lettres, and the
commander's cross. As Gaubertin's prospective son-in-law, M. des Lupeaulx, espousing the cause
of his fiancee's family, was instrumental in disgusting Montcornet, owner of Aigues, with his
property. [The Peasantry.]

LUPIN, born in 1778, son of the last steward of the Soulanges in Bourgogne; in time he became
manager of the domain, notary and deputy mayor of the city of Soulanges. Although married and
a man of family, M. Lupin, still in excellent physical condition, was, in 1823, a brilliant
figure in Madame Soudry's reception-room, where he was known for his tenor voice and his extreme
gallantries--the latter characteristic being proved by two liaisons carried on with two middle-class
women, Madame Sarcus, wife of Sarcus the Rich, and Euphemie Plissoud. [The Peasantry.]

LUPIN (Madame), wife of the preceding, called "Bebelle;" only daughter of a salt-merchant enriched
by the Revolution; had a platonic affection for the chief clerk, Bonnac. Madame Lupin was fat,
awkward, of very ordinary appearance, and weak intellectually. On account of these characteristics
Lupin and the Soudry adherents neglected her. [The Peasantry.]

LUPIN (Amaury), only son of the preceding couple, perhaps the lover of Adeline Sarcus, who
became Madame Adolphe Sibilet; was on the point of marrying one of Gaubertin's daughters, the
same one, doubtless, that was wooed and won by M. des Lupeaulx. In the midst of this liaison
and of these matrimonial designs, Amaury Lupin was sent to Paris in 1822 by his father to study
the notary's profession with Maitre Crottat, where he had for a companion another clerk, Georges
Marest, with whom he committed some indiscretions and went into debt. Amaury went with his
friend to the Lion d'Argent, rue d'Enghien in the Saint-Denis section, when Marest took Pierrotin's
carriage to Isle-Adam. On the way they met Oscar Husson, and made fun of him. The following
year Amaury Lupin returned to Soulanges in Bourgogne. [The Peasantry. A Start in Life.]

                                  M

MACHILLOT (Madame), kept in Paris, in 1838, in the Notre Dame-des Champs neighborhood, a modest
restaurant, which was patronized by Godefroid on account of its nearness to Bourlac's house.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

MACUMER (Felipe Henarez, Baron de), Spanish descendant of the Moors, about whom much information
has been furnished by Talleyrand; had a right to names and titles as follows: Henarez, Duc
de Soria, Baron de Macumer. He never used all of them; for his entire youth was a succession
of sacrifices, misfortunes and undue trials. Macumer, a leading Spanish revolutionist of 1823,
saw fortune turn against him. Ferdinand VII., once more enthroned, recognized him as constitutional
minister, but never forgave him for his assumption of power. Seeing his property confiscated
and himself banished, he took refuge in Paris, where he took poor lodgings on rue Hillerin-Bertin
and began to teach Spanish for a living, notwithstanding he was Baron de Sardaigne with large
estates and a place at Sassari. Macumer also suffered many heart-aches. He vainly loved a woman
who was beloved by his own brother. His brother's passion being reciprocated, Macumer sacrificed
himself for their happiness. Under the simple name of Henarez, Macumer was the instructor of
Armande-Marie-Louise de Chaulieu, whom he did not woo in vain. He married her, March, 1825.
At various times the baron occupied or owned Chantepleurs, a chateau Nivernais, a house on
rue du Bac, and La Crampade, Louis de l'Estorate's residence in Provence. The foolish, annoying
jealousy of Madame de Macumer embittered his life and was responsible for his physical break-down.
Idolized by his wife, in spite of his marked plainness, he died in 1829. [Letters of Two brides.]

MACUMER (Baronne de). (See Gaston, Madame Marie.)

MADELEINE, first name of Madeleine Vinet, by which she was called while employed as a domestic.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Pons.]

MADOU (Angelique), woman of the masses, fat but spry; although ignorant, very shrewd in her
business of selling dried fruit. At the beginning of the Restoration she lived in Paris on
rue Perrin-Gasselin, where she fell prey to the usurer Bidault--Gigonnet. Angelique Madou at
first dealt harshly with Cesar Birotteau, when he was unable to pay his debts; but she congratulated
him, later on, when, as a result of his revived fortunes, the perfumer settled every obligation.
Angelique Madon had a little godchild, in whom she occasionally showed much interest. [Cesar
Birotteau.]

MAGNAN (Prosper), of Beauvais, son of a widow, chief-surgeon's assistant; executed in 1799
at Andernach on the banks of the Rhine, being the innocent victim of circumstantial evidence,
which condemned him for the double crime of robbery and murder--this crime having, in reality,
been committed by his comrade, Jean-Frederic-Taillefer, who escaped punishment. [The Red Inn.]

MAGNAN (Madame), mother of the preceding, lived at Beauvais, where she died a short time after
her son's death, and previous to the arrival of Hermann, who was bearing her a letter from
Prosper. [The Red Inn.]

MAGUS (Elie), Flemish Jew, Dutch-Belgian descent, born in 1770. He lived now at Bordeaux, now
at Paris; was a merchant of costly articles, such as pictures, diamonds and curiosities. By
his influence Madame Luigi Porta, born Ginevra di Piombo, obtained from a print-seller a position
as colorist. Madame Evangelista engaged him to estimate the value of her jewels. He bought
a copy of Rubens from Joseph Bridau and some Flemish subjects from Pierre Grassou, selling
them later to Vervelli as genuine Rembrandts or Teniers; he arranged for the marriage of the
artist with the cork-maker's daughter. Very wealthy, and having retired from business in 1835,
he left his house on the Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle to occupy an old dwelling on Chaussee des
Minimes, now called rue de Bearn. He took with him his treasures, his daughter, Noemi, and
Abramko as a guard for his property. Eli Magus was still living in 1845, when he had just acquired,
in a somewhat dishonorable manner, a number of superb paintings from Sylvain Pons' collection.
[The Vendetta. While playing the "jeune premiere" she was recognized by her mother. [The Middle
Classes.]

MAHUCHET (Madame), women's shoemaker, "a very foul-mouthed woman," in the language of Madame
Nourrisson; mother of seven children. After having dunned a countess, to no avail, for a hundred
francs that was due her, she conceived the idea of carrying off the silverware, on display
at a grand dinner to be given by her debtor one evening, as a pledge. She promptly returned,
however, the silver she had taken, upon finding that it was white metal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

MALAGA, surname of Marguerite Turquet.

MALASSIS (Jeanne), from the country, a servant of Pingret, who was an avaricious and wealthy
old peasant of the suburbs of Limoges. Mortally injured while hastening to the assistance of
her master, who was robbed and murdered, she was the second victim of J.-F. Tascheron. [The
Country Parson.]

MALFATTI, Venetian doctor; in 1820 called into consultation with one of his fellow-physicians
in France, concerning the sickness of the Duc Cataneo. [Massimilla Doni.]

MALIN. (See Gondreville.)

MALLET, policeman in the department of Orne in 1809. Ordered to find and arrest Madame Bryond
des Minieres, he let her escape, by means of an agreement with his comrade, Ratel, who was
to have aided in her capture. Having been imprisoned for this deed, Mallet was declared by
Bourlac deserving of capital punishment, and was put to death the same year. [The Seamy Side
of History.]

MALVAUT (Jenny). (See Derville, Madame.)

MANCINI (De), Italian, fair, effeminate, madly beloved by La Marana, who had by him a daughter,
Juana-Pepita-Maria de Mancini, later Madame Diard. [The Maranas.]

MANCINI (Juana-Pepita-Maria de). (See Diard, Madame.)

MANERVILLE (De), born in 1731; Norman gentleman to whom the governor of Guyenne, Richelieu,
married one of the wealthiest Bordeaux heiresses. He purchased a commission as major of the
Gardes de la Porte, in the latter part of Louis XV.'s reign; had by his wife a son, Paul, who
was reared with austerity; emigrated, at the outbreak of the Revolution, to Martinique, but
managed to save his property, Lanstrac, etc., thanks to Maitre Mathias, head-clerk of the notary.
He became a widower in 1810, three years before his death. [A Marriage Settlement.]

MANERVILLE (Paul Francois-Joseph, Comte de), son of the preceding, born in 1794, received his
education in the college at Vendome, finishing his work there in 1810, the year of his mother's
death. He passed three years at Bordeaux with his father, who had become overbearing and avaricious;
when left an orphan, he inherited a large fortune, including Lanstrac in Gironde, and a house
in Paris, rue de la Pepiniere. He spent six years in Europe as a diplomat, passing his vacations
in Paris, where he was intimate with Henri de Marsay, and was a lover of Paquita Valdes. There
he was subject to the trifling of Madame Charles de Vandenesse, then Emilie de Fontaine; also,
perhaps, met Lucien de Rubempre. In the winter of 1821 he returned to Bordeaux, where he was
a social leader. Paul de Manerville received the appropriate nick-name of "le fleur des pois."
Despite the good advice of his two devoted friends, Maitre Mathias and Marsay, he asked, through
the instrumentality of his great-aunt, Madame de Maulincour, for the hand of Natalie Evangelista
in marriage, and obtained it. After being wedded five years, he was divorced from his wife
and sailed for Calcutta under the name of Camille, one of his mother's given names. Having
been spoiled as a child, and being of a sharp, domineering nature, she robbed her husband without
impoverishing him. She was a leader at Paris as well as at Bordeaux. As the mistress of Felix
de Vandenesse she disliked his dedication to a story, for in it he praised Madame de Mortsauf.
Later, in company with Lady Dudley and Mesdames d'Espard, Charles de Vandernesse and de Listomere,
she attempted to compromise the Comtesse Felix de Vandenesse, recently married, with Raoul
Nathan. [A Marriage Settlement. The Lily of the Valley. A Daughter of Eve.]

MANETTE, under the Restoration at Clochegourde in Touraine, the Comtesse de Mortsauf's housekeeper,
taking her mother's place in the care of her young master and mistress, Jacques and Madeleine
de Mortsauf. [The Lily of the Valley.]

MANON. (See Godard, Manon.)

MANON-LA-BLONDE, during the last years of the Restoration a Paris prostitute, who fell violently
in love with Theodore Calvi, became a receiver of stolen goods, brought to her by the companion
of Jacques Collin, who committed murder also, at the time of the robbery; she thus became the
indirect or involuntary cause of the Corsican's arrest. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

MANSEAU (Pere), tavern-keeper at Echelles, a town in Savoie, gave aid to La Fosseuse, in her
poverty, and sheltered this unfortunate woman in a barn. La Fosseuse became the protegee of
Doctor Benassis. [The Country Doctor.]

MARANA (La), the last of a long series of prostitutes bearing the same name; natural descendant
of the Herouvilles. She was known to have had more than one distinguished lover: Mancini, the
Duc de Lina, and a king of Naples. She was notorious in Venice, Milan and Naples. She had by
Mancini one child, whom he acknowledged, Juana-Pepita-Maria, and had her reared in good morals
by the Lagounias, who were under obligations to her. Upon going to seek her daughter in Tarragone,
Spain, she surprised the girl in company with Montefiore, but scorned to take vengeance upon
him. She accepted as husband of the young girl M. Diard, who had asked for her hand. In 1823,
when she was dying in the hospital at Bordeaux, Marana once more saw her daughter, still virtuous,
although unhappy. [The Hated Son. The Maranas.]

MARCAS (Zephirin), born about 1803 in a Bretagne family at Vitre. In after life he supported
his parents who were in poor circumstances. He received a free education in a seminary, but
had no inclination for the priesthood. Carrying hardly any money he went to Paris, in 1823
or 1824, and after studying with a lawyer became his chief clerk. Later he studied men and
objects in five capitals: London, Berlin, Vienna, St. Petersburg and Constantinople. For five
years he was a journalist, and reported the proceedings of the "Chambres." He often visited
R. de la Palferine. With women he proved to be of the passionate-timid kind. With the head
of a lion, and a strong voice, he was equal as an orator to Berryer, and the superior of M.
Thiers. For a long time he supplied the political ability needed by a deputy who had become
a minister, but, convinced of his disloyalty, he overthrew him, only to restore him for a short
time. He once more entered into polemical controversy; saw the newspapers which had sparkled
with his forceful, high-minded criticism die; and lived miserably upon a daily allowance of
thirty sous, earned by copying for the Palais. Marcas lived at that time, 1836, in the garret
of a furnished house on rue Corneille. His thankless debtor, become minister again, sought
him anew. Had it not been for the hearty attention of his young neighbors, Rabourdin and Juste,
who furnished him with some necessary clothing, and aided him at Humann's expense, Marcas would
not have taken advantage of the new opportunity that was offered him. His new position lasted
but a short time. The third fall of the government hastened that of Marcas. Lodged once more
on rue Corneille he was taken with a nervous fever. The sickness increased and finally carried
away this unrecognized genius. Z. Marcas was buried in a common grave in Montparnasse cemetery,
January, 1838. [A Prince of Bohemia. Z. Marcas.]

MARCHAND (Victor), son of a Parisian grocer, infantry-major during the campaign of 1808, a
lover of Clara Leganes, to whom he was under obligation; tried, without success, to marry this
girl of the Spanish nobility, who preferred to suffer the most horrible of deaths, decapitation
by the hand of her own brother. [El Verdugo.]

MARCHE-A-TERRE. (See Leroi, Pierre.)

MARCILLAC (Madame de). Thanks to some acquaintances of the old regime, whom she had kept, and
to her relationship with the Rastignacs, with whom she lived quietly, she found the means of
introducing to Claire de Beauseant, Chevalier de Rastignac, her well-beloved grand-nephew --about
1819. [Father Goriot.]

MARCOSINI (Count Andrea), born in 1807 at Milan; although an aristocrat he took temporary refuge
in Paris as a liberal; a wealthy and handsome poet; took his period of exile in 1834 in good
spirits. He was received on terms of friendship by Mesdames d'Espard and Paul de Manerville.
On the rue Froidmanteau he was constantly in pursuit of Marianina Gambara; at the Italian Giardini's
"table-d'hote" he discussed musical topics and spoke of "Robert le Diable." For five years
he kept Paolo Gambara's wife as his mistress; then he gave her up to marry an Italian dancer.
[Gambara.]

MARECHAL, under the Restoration an attorney at Ville-aux-Fayes, Bourgogne, Montcornet's legal
adviser, helped by his recommendation to have Sibilet appointed steward of Aigues in 1817.
[The Peasantry.]

MARESCHAL, supervisor in the college of Vendome in 1811, when Louis Lambert became a student
in this educational institution. [Louis Lambert.]

MAREST (Frederic), born about 1802, son of a rich lumber-merchant's widow, cousin of Georges
Marest; attorney's clerk in Paris, November, 1825; lover of Florentine Cabirolle, who was maintained
by Cardot; made the acquaintance at Maitre Desroches' of Oscar Husson, and took him to a fete
given by Mademoiselle Cabirolle on rue de Vendome, where his friend foolishly compromised himself.
[A Start in Life.] Frederic Marest, in 1838, having become an examining magistrate in the public
prosecutor's office in Paris, had to examine Auguste de Mergi, who was charged with having
committed robbery to the detriment of Doctor Halpersohn. [The Seamy Side of History.] The following
year, while acting as king's solicitor at Arcis-sur-Aube, Frederic Marest, still unmarried
and very corpulent, became acquainted with Martener's sons, Goulard, Michu and Vinet, and visited
the Beauvisage and Mallot families. [The Member for Arcis.]

MAREST (Georges), cousin of the preceding, son of the senior member of a large Parisian hardware
establishment on rue Saint-Martin. He became, in 1822, the second clerk of a Parisian notary,
Maitre A. Crottat. He had then as a comrade in study and in pleasure Amaury Lupin. At this
time Marest's vanity made itself absurdly apparent in Pierrotin's coach, which did service
in the valley of Oise; he hoaxed Husson, amused Bridau and Lora, and vexed the Comte de Serizy.
Three years later Georges Marest had become the chief clerk of Leopold Hannequin. He lost by
debauchery a fortune amounting to thirty thousand francs a year, and died a plain insurance-broker.
[The Peasantry. A Start in Life.]

MARGARITIS, of Italian origin, took up his residence in Vouvray in 1831, an old man of deranged
mind, most eccentric of speech, and who pretended to be a vine-grower. He was induced by Vernier
to hoax the famous traveler, Gaudissart, during a business trip of the latter. [Gaudissart
the Great.]

MARGARITIS (Madame), wife of the insane Margaritis. She kept him near her for the sake of economy,
and made amends to the deceived Gaudissart. [Gaudissart the Great.]

MARGUERON, wealthy citizen of Beaumont-sur-Oise, under Louis XVIII., wished his son to be tax-collector
of the district in which he himself owned the farm lying next to the property of Serizy at
Presles, and which he had leased to Leger. [A Start in Life.]

MARIANNE, during the Restoration, servant of Sophie Gamard at Tours. [The Vicar of Tours.]

MARIANNE, served with Gaucher in Michu's house, October, 1803, in the district of Arcis-sur-Aube,
at Cinq-Cygne. She served her master with discretion and fidelity. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

MARIAST, owned No. 22 rue da la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve, Paris, and let it to Messieurs of
d'Espard during nearly the whole period of the Restoration. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

MARIE DES ANGES (Mere), born in 1762, Jacques Bricheteau's aunt, superior of the Ursuline convent
at Arcis-sur-Aube, saved from the guillotine by Danton, had the fifth of April of each year
observed with a mass in her nephew's behalf, and, under Louis Philippe, protected the descendant
of a celebrated Revolutionist, Charles de Sallenauve; her influence gave him the position of
deputy of the district. [The Member for Arcis.]

MARIETTE. (See Godeschal, Marie.)

MARIETTE, born in 1798; from 1817 in the service of the Wattevilles of Besancon; was under
Louis Philippe, despite her extreme homeliness, and on account of the money she had saved,
courted by Jerome, a servant of Albert Savarus. Mademoiselle de Watteville, who was in love
with the lawyer, used Mariette and Jerome to her own advantage. [Albert Savarus.]

MARIETTE, in 1816, cook in the employ of Mademoiselle Cormon, of Alencon; sometimes received
advice from M. du Ronceret; an ordinary kitchen-maid in the same household, when her mistress
became Madame du Bousquier. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

MARIETTE, was in the employ of La Fosseuse, towards the end of the Restoration, in the village
over which Benassis was mayor. [The Country Doctor.]

MARIGNY (Duchesse de), much sought after in the Saint-Germain section; related to the Navarreins
and the Grandlieus; a woman of experience and good at giving advice; real head of her house;
died in 1819. [The Thirteen.]

MARIGNY[*] (De), son of the preceding, harebrained, but attractive, had an attachment for Madame
Keller, a middle-class lady of the Chaussee-d'Antin. [The Thirteen.]

[*] During the last century the Marignys owned, before the Verneuils,
    Rosembray, an estate where a great hunt brought together, 1829,
    Cadignan, Chaulieu, Canalis, Mignon, etc.

MARIN, in 1839, at Cinq-Cygne, in the district of Arcis-sur-Aube, first valet of Georges de
Maufrigneuse and protector of Anicette. [The Member for Arcis.]

MARION of Arcis, grandson of a steward in the employ of Simeuse; brother-in-law of Madame Marion,
born Giguet. He had the confidence of Malin, acquired for him the Gondreville property, and
became a lawyer in Aube, then president of an Imperial court. [The Gondreville Mystery. The
Member for Arcis.]

MARION, brother of the preceding and brother-in-law of Colonel Giguet, whose sister became
his wife. Through Malin's influence, he became co-receiver-general of Aube, with Sibuelle as
his colleague. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

MARION (Madame), wife of the preceding, Colonel Giguet's sister. She was on intimate terms
with Malin de Gondreville. After her husband's death she returned to her native country, Arcis,
where her parlor was frequented by many guests. Under Louis Philippe, Madame Marion exerted
her powers in behalf of Simon Giguet, the Colonel's son. [The Member for Arcis.]

MARION. (See Kolb, Madame.)

MARIOTTE, of Auxerre, a rival of the wealthy Gaubertin in contracting for the forest lands
of that portion of Bourgogne in which Aigues, the large estate of Montcornet, was situated.
[The Peasantry.]

MARIOTTE (Madame), of Auxerre, mother of the preceding, in 1823, had Mademoiselle Courtecuisse
in her service. [The Peasantry.]

MARIUS, the cognomen, become hereditary, of a native of Toulouse, who established himself as
a Parisian hair-dresser and was thus nick-named by the Chevalier de Parny, one of his patrons,
in the early part of the nineteenth century. He handed down this name of Marius as a kind of
permanent property to his successors. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

MARMUS (Madame), wife of a savant, who was an officer in the Legion of Honor and a member of
the Institute. They lived together on rue Duguay-Trouin in Paris, and were (in 1840) on intimate
terms with Zelie Minard. [The Middle Classes.]

MARMUS, husband of the preceding and noted for his absent-mindedness. [The Middle Classes.]

MARNEFFE (Jean-Paul-Stanislas), born in 1794, employed in the War Department. In 1833, while
a mere clerk living on twelve hundred francs a year, he married Mademoiselle Valerie Fortin.
Having become as unprincipled as a convict, under the patronage of Baron Hulot, his wife's
paramour, he left rue du Doyenne to install himself in luxury in the Saint-Germain section,
and later became head-clerk, assistant chief, and chief of the bureau, chevalier, then officer
of the Legion of Honor. Jean-Paul-Stanislas Marneffe, decayed physically as well as morally,
died in May, 1842. [Cousin Betty.]

MARNEFFE[*] (Madame). (See Crevel, Madame Celestin.)

[*] In 1849, at Paris, Clairville produced upon the stage of the
    Gymnase-Dramatique, the episodes in the life of Madame Marneffe,
    somewhat modified, under the double title, "Madame Marneffe, or
    the Prodigal Father" (a vaudeville drama in five acts).

MARNEFFE (Stanislas), legal son of the preceding couple, suffered from scrofula, much neglected
by his parents. [Cousin Betty.]

MAROLLES (Abbe de), an old priest, who lived towards the close of the eighteenth century. Having
escaped in September, 1792, from the massacre of the Carmelite convent, now a small chapel
on rue de Vaugirard, he concealed himself in the upper Saint-Martin district, near the German
Highway. He had under his protection, at this time, two nuns, who were in as great danger as
he, Sister Marthe and Sister Agathe. On January 22, 1793, and on January 21, 1794, the Abbe
de Marolles, in their presence, said masses for the repose of Louis XVI.'s soul, having been
asked to do so by the executioner of the "martyr-king," whose presence at mass the Abbe knew
nothing of until January 25, 1794, when he was so informed at the corner of rue des Frondeurs
by Citizen Ragou. [An Episode under the Terror.]

MARONIS (Abbe de), a priest of great genius, who would have been another Borgia, had he worn
the tiara. He was Henri de Marsay's teacher, and made of him a complete skeptic, in a period
when the churches were closed. The Abbe de Maronis died a bishop in 1812. [The Thirteen.]

MARRON, under the Restoration, a physician at Marsac, Charente; nephew of the Cure Marron.
He married his daughter to Postel, a pharmacist of Augouleme. He was intimate with the family
of David Sechard. [Lost Illusions. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

MARSAY (De), immoral old gentleman. To oblige Lord Dudley he married one of the former's mistresses
and recognized their son as his own. For this favor he received a hundred thousand francs per
year for life, money which he soon threw away in evil company. He confided the child to his
old sister, Mademoiselle de Marsay, and died, as he had lived, away from his wife. [The Thirteen.]

MARSAY (Madame de). (See Vordac, Marquise de.)

MARSAY (Mademoiselle de), sister-in-law of the preceding, took care of her son, Henri, and
treated him so well that she was greatly mourned by him when she died advanced in years. [The
Thirteen.]

MARSAY (Henri de), born between 1792 and 1796, son of Lord Dudley and the celebrated Marquise
de Vordac, who was first united in marriage to the elder De Marsay. This gentleman adopted
the boy, thus becoming, according to law, his father. The young Henri was reared by Mademoiselle
de Marsay and the Abbe de Maronis. He was on intimate terms, in 1815, with Paul de Manerville,
and was already one of the all powerful Thirteen, with Bourignard, Montriveau and Ronquerolles.
At that time he found on rue Saint-Lazare a girl from Lesbosen, Paquita Valdes, whom he wished
to make his mistress. He met at the same time his own natural sister, Madame de San-Real, of
whom he became the rival for Paquita's love. At first Marsay had been the lover of the Duchesse
Charlotte, then of Arabelle Dudley, whose children were his very image. He was also known to
be intimate with Delphine de Nucingen up to 1819, then with Diane de Cadignan. In his position
as member of the Thirteen Henri was in Montriveau's party when Antoinette de Langeais was stolen
from the Carmelites. He bought Coralie for sixty thousand francs. He passed the whole of his
time during the Restoration in the company of young men and women. He was the companion and
counselor of Victurnien d'Esgrignon, Savinien de Portenduere and above all of Paul de Manerville,
whose course he vainly tried to direct after an ill-appointed marriage, and to whom he announced,
as soon as possible, his own union. Marsay aided Lucien de Rubempre and served for him, with
Rastignac, as second in a duel with Michel Chrestien. The Chaulieu and Fontaine women feared
or admired Henri de Marsay--a man who was slighted by M. de Canalis, the much toasted poet.
The Revolution of July, 1830, made Marsay a man of no little importance. He, however, was content
to tell over his old love affairs gravely in the home of Felicite des Touches. As prime minister
from 1832 to 1833, he was an habitue of the Princesse de Cadignan's Legitimist salon, where
he served as a screen for the last Vendean insurrection. There, indeed, Marsay brought to light
the secrets, already old, of Malin's kidnapping. Marsay died in 1834, a physical wreck, having
but a short time before, when Nathan was courting Marie de Vandenesse, taken part in the intrigue,
although he was disgusted with the author. He was an extreme Royalist and, as such, in 1821
and 1822, threw away his advice and support on Lucien de Rubempre, then a convert to Liberalism.
[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

MARTENER, well-educated old man who lived in Provins under the Restoration. He explained to
the archaeologist, Desfondrilles, who consulted him, the reason why Europe, disdaining the
waters of Provins, sought Spa, where the waters were less efficacious, according to French
medical advice. [Pierrette.]

MARTENER, son of the preceding; physician at Provins in 1827, capable man, simple and gentle.
He married Madame Guenee's second daughter. When consulted one day by Mademoiselle Habert,
he spoke against the marriage of virgins at forty, and thus filled Sylvie Rogron with despair.
He protected and cared for Pierrette Lorrain, the victim of this same old maid. [Pierrette.]

MARTENER (Madame), wife of the preceding, second daughter of Madame Guenee, and sister of Madame
Auffray. Having taken pity on Pierrette Lorrain in her sickness, she gave to her, in 1828,
the pleasures of music, playing the compositions of Weber, Beethoven or Herold. [Pierrette.]

MARTENER, son of the preceding couple, protege of Vinet the elder, honest and thick-headed.
He was, in 1839, examining magistrate at Arcis-sur-Aube and caucused, during the election season
in the spring of this same year, with the officers, Michu, Goulard, O. Vinet and Marest. [The
Member for Arcis.]

MARTHA was for a long time the faithful chambermaid of Josephine Claes; she died in old age
between 1828 and 1830. [The Quest for the Absolute.]

MARTHE (Sister), a Gray sister of Auvergne; from 1809 to 1816 instructed Veronique Sauviat--Madame
Graslin--in reading, writing, sacred history, the Old and the New Testaments, the Catechism,
the elements of arithmetic. [The Country Parson.]

MARTHE (Sister), born Beauseant, in 1730, a nun in the Abbey of Chelles, fled with Sister Agathe
(nee Langeais) and the Abbe de Marolles to a poor lodging in the upper Saint-Martin district.
On January 22, 1793, she went to a pastry-cook near Saint Laurent to get the wafers necessary
for a mass for the repose of Louis XVI.'s soul. At this ceremony she was present, as was also
the man who had executed the King. The following year, January 21, 1794, this same ceremony
was repeated exactly. She passed these two years of the Terror under Mucius Scoevola's protection.
[An Episode under the Terror.]

MARTHE (Sister), in the convent of the Carmelites at Blois, knew two young women, Mesdames
de l'Estorade and Gaston. [Letters of Two Brides.]

MARTIN, a woman of a Dauphine village, of which Doctor Benassis was mayor, kept the hospital
children for three francs and a bar of soap each month. She was, possibly, the first person
in the country seen by Genestas-Bluteau, and also the first to impart knowledge to him. [The
Country Doctor.]

MARTINEAU, name of two brothers employed by M. de Mortsauf in connection with his farms in
Touraine. The elder was at first a farm-hand, then a steward; the younger, a warden. [The Lily
of the Valley.]

MARTINEAU, son of one of the two Martineau brothers. [The Lily of the Valley.]

MARTY (Jean-Baptiste), actor of melodrama, employe or manager of the Gaite, before and after
the Paris fire of 1836; born in 1779, celebrated during the Restoration; in 1819 and 1820 he
played in "Mont-Sauvage," a play warmly applauded by Madame Vauquer. This woman was accompanied
to the theatre on the Boulevard du Crime, by her rue Nueve-Sainte-Genevieve lodger, Jacques
Collin, called also Vautrin, on the evening before his arrest. [Father Goriot.] Marty died,
at an advanced age, in 1868, a chevalier in the Legion of Honor, after having been for many
years mayor of Charenton.

MARVILLE (De). (See Camusot.)

MARY, an Englishwoman in the family of Louis de l'Estorade during the Restoration and under
Louis Philippe. [Letters of Two Brides. The Member for Arcis.]

MASSIN-LEVRAULT, junior, son of a poor locksmith of Montargis, grand-nephew of Doctor Denis
Minoret, as a result of his marriage with a Levrault-Minoret; father of three girls, Pamela,
Aline, and Madame Goupil. He bought the office of clerk to the justice of peace in Nemours,
January, 1815, and lived at first with his family in the good graces of Doctor Minoret, through
whom his sister became postmistress at Nemours. Massin-Levrault, junior, was one of the indirect
persecutors of Ursule de Portenduere. He became a minicipal councilor after July, 1830, began
to lend money to the laboring people at exorbitant rates of interest, and finally developed
into a confirmed usurer. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MASSIN-LEVRAULT (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Levrault-Minoret in 1793, grand-niece
of Doctor Denis Minoret on the maternal side; her father was a victim of the campaign in France.
She strove in every way possible to win the affections of her wealthy uncle, and was one of
Ursule de Portenduere's persecutors. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MASSOL, native of Carcassonne, licentiate in law and editor of the "Gazette des Tribunaux"
in May, 1830. Without knowing their relationship he brought together Jacqueline and Jacques
Collin, a boarder at the Concierge, and, acting under Granville's orders, in his journal attributed
Lucien de Rubembre's suicidal death to the rupture of a tumor. A Republican, through the lack
of the particle de before his name, and very ambitious, he was, in 1834, the associate of Raoul
Nathan in the publication of a large journal, and sought to make a tool of the poet-founder
of this paper.  In company with Stidmann, Steinbock and Claude Vignon, Massol was a witness
of the second marriage of Valerie Marneffe. In 1845, having become a councilor of state and
president of a section, he supported Jenny Cadine. He was then charged with the administrative
lawsuit of S.-P. Gozonal. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

MASSON (Publicola), born in 1795, the best known chiropodist in Paris, a radical Republican
of the Marat type, even resembled the latter physically; counted Leon de Lora among his customers.
[The Unconscious Humorists.]

MATHIAS, born in 1753. He started as third clerk to a Bordeaux notary, Chesneau, whom he succeeded.
He married, but lost his wife in 1826. He had one son on the bench, and a married daughter.
He was a good example of the old-fashioned country magistrate, and gave out his enlightened
opinions to two generations of Manervilles. [A Marriage Settlement.]

MATHILDE (La Grande), on terms of friendship with Jenny Courand in Paris, under the reign of
Louis Philippe. [Gaudissart the Great.]

MATHURINE, a cook, spiritual and upright, first in the employ of the Bishop of Nancy, but later
given a place on rue Vaneau, Paris, with Valerie Marneffe, by Lisbeth, a relative of the former
on her mother's side. [Cousin Betty.]

MATIFAT, a wealthy druggist on rue des Lombards, Paris, at the beginning of the nineteenth
century; kept the "Reine des Roses," which later was handled by Ragon and Birotteau; typical
member of the middle classes, narrow in views and pleased with himself, vulgar in language
and, perhaps, in action. He married and had a daughter, whom he took, with his wife, to the
celebrated ball tendered by Cesar Birotteau on rue Saint-Honore, Sunday, December 17, 1818.
As a friend of the Collevilles, Thuilliers and Saillards, Matifat obtained for them invitations
from Cesar Birotteau. In 1821 he supported on rue de Bondy an actress, who was shortly transferred
from the Panorama to the Gymnase-Dramatique. Although called Florine, her true name was Sophie
Grignault, and she became subsequently Madame Nathan. J.-J. Bixiou and Madame Desroches visited
Matifat frequently during the year 1826, sometimes on rue du Cherche-Midi, sometimes in the
suburbs of Paris. Having become a widower, Matifat remarried under Louis Philippe, and retired
from business. He was a silent partner in the theatre directed by Gaudissart. She shone, under
the Restoration, in bourgeois circles and died probably during the reign of Louis Philippe.
[Cesar Birotteau. The Firm of Nucingen.]

MATIFAT (Mademoiselle), daughter of the preceding couple, attended the Birotteau ball, was
sought in marriage by Adolphe Cochin and Maitre Desroches; married General Baron Gouraud, a
poor man much her elder, bringing to him a dowry of fifty thousand crowns and expectations
of an estate on rue du Cherche-Midi and a house at Luzarches. [Cesar Birotteau. The Firm of
Nucingen. Pierrette.]

MAUCOMBE (Comte de), of a Provencal family already celebrated under King Rene. During the Revolution
he "clothed himself in the humble garments of a provincial proof-reader," in the printing office
of Jerome-Nicolas Sechard at Angouleme. He had a number of children: Renee, who became Madame
de l'Estorade; Jean, and Marianina, a natural daughter, claimed by Lanty. He was a deputy by
the close of 1826, sitting between the Centre and the Right. [Lost Illusions. Letters of Two
Brides.]

MAUCOMBE (Jean de), son of the preceding, gave up his portion of the family inheritance to
his older sister, Madame de l'Estorade, born Renee de Maucombe. [Letters of Two Brides.]

MAUFRIGNEUSE (Duc de), born in 1778, son of the Prince de Cadignan, who died an octogenarian
towards the close of the Restoration, leaving then as eldest of the house the Prince de Cadignan.
The prince was in love with Madame d'Uxelles, but married her daughter, Diane, in 1814, and
afterwards lived unhappily with her. He supported Marie Godeschal; was a cavalry colonel during
the reigns of Louis XVIII. and Charles X.; had under his command Philippe Bridau, the Vicomte
de Serizy, Oscar Husson. He was on intimate terms with Messieurs de Grandlieu and d'Espard.
[The Secrets of a Princess. She was in turn the mistress of Marsay, Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto, Victurnien
d'Esgrignon, Maxime de Trailles, Eugene de Rastignac, Armand de Montriveau, Marquis de Ronquerolles,
Prince Galathionne, the Duc de Rhetore, a Grandlieu, Lucien de Rubempre, and Daniel d'Arthez.
She lived at various times in the following places: Anzy, near Sancerre; Paris, on rue Saint-Honore
in the suburbs and on rue Miromesnil; Cinq-Cygne in Champagne; Geneva and the borders of Leman.
She inspired a foolish platonic affection in Michel Chrestien, and kept at a distance the Duc
d'Herouville, who courted her towards the end of the Restoration by sarcasm and brilliant repartee.
Her first and last love affairs were especially well known. For her the Marquis Miguel d'Ajudo-Pinto
gave up Berthe de Rochefide, his wife, avenging thus a former mistress, Claire de Beauseant.
Her liaison with Victurnien d'Esgrignon became the most stormy of romances. Madame de Maufrigneuse,
disguised as a man and possessed of a passport, bearing the name of Felix de Vandenesse, succeeded
in rescuing from the Court of Assizes the young man who had compromised himself in yielding
to the foolish extravagance of his mistress. The duchesse received even her tradesmen in an
angelic way, and became their prey. She scattered fortunes to the four winds, and her indiscretions
led to the sale of Anzy in a manner advantageous to Polydore Milaud de la Baudraye. Some years
later she made a vain attempt to rescue Lucien de Rubempre, against whom a criminal charge
was pending. The Restoration and the Kingdom of 1830 gave to her life a different lustre. Having
fallen heir to the worldly sceptre of Mesdames de Langeais and de Beauseant, both of whom she
knew socially, she became intimate with the Marquise d'Espard, a lady with whom in 1822 she
disputed the right to rule the "fragile kingdom of fashion." She visited frequently the Chaulieus,
whom she met at a famous hunt near Havre. In July, 1830, reduced to poor circumstances, abandoned
by her husband, who had then become the Prince de Cadignan, and assisted by her relatives,
Mesdames d'Uxelles and de Navarreins, Diane operated as it were a kind of retreat, occupied
herself with her son Georges, and strengthening herself by the memory of Chrestien, also by
constantly visiting Madame d'Espard, she succeeded, without completely foregoing society, in
making captive the celebrated deputy of the Right, a man of wealth and maturity, Daniel Arthez
himself. In her own home and in that of Felicite des Touches she heard, between 1832 and 1835,
anecdotes of Marsay. The Princess de Cadignan had portraits of her numerous lovers. She had
also one of the Madame whom she had attended, and upon meeting him, showed it to Marsay, minister
of Louis Philippe. She owned also a picture of Charles X. which was thus inscribed, "Given
by the King." After the marriage of her son to a Cinq-Cygne, she visited often at the estate
of that name, and was there in 1839, during the regular election. Through his mother's instrumentality,
who paved the way for the match in 1833, he married Mademoiselle Berthe de Cinq-Cygne in 1838,
and became heir to the estate of the same name the following year during the regular election.
[The Secrets of a Princess. The Gondreville Mystery. Beatrix. The Member for Arcis.]

MAUFRIGNEUSE (Berthe de), wife of the preceding, daughter of Adrien and Laurence de Cinq-Cygne,
married in 1838, although she had been very nearly engaged in 1833; she lived with all her
family on their property at Aube during the spring of 1839. [Beatrix. The Gondreville Mystery.
The Member for Arcis.]

MAUGREDIE, celebrated Pyrrhonic physician, being called into consultation, he gave his judgment
on the very serious case of Raphael de Valentin. [The Magic Skin.]

MAULINCOUR[*] (Baronne de), born Rieux, an eighteenth century woman who "did not lose her head"
during the Revolution; intimate friend of the Vidame de Pamiers. At the beginning of the Restoration
she spent half of her time in the suburbs of Saint-Germain, where she managed to educate her
grandson, Auguste Carbonnon de Maulincour, and the remainder on her estates at Bordeaux, where
she demanded the hand of Natalie Evangelista in marriage for her grand-nephew, Paul de Manerville.
Of the family of this girl she had an unfavorable, but just opinion. The Baronne de Maulincour
died a short time before her grandson of the chagrin which she felt on account of this young
man's unhappy experiences. [A Marriage Settlement. The Thirteen.]

[*] Some Maulincourts had, during the last century, a place of
    residence on Chausee de Minimes, in the Marais, of which Elie
    Magus subsequently became proprietor.

MAULINCOUR (Auguste Carbonnon de), born in 1797, grandson of the preceding, by whom he was
reared; moulded by the Vidame de Pamiers, whom he left but rarely; lived on the rue de Bourbon
in Paris; had a short existence, under Louis XVIII., which was full of brilliance and misfortune.
Having embraced a military career he was decorated, becoming major in a cavalry regiment of
the Royal Guard, and afterwards lieutenant-colonel of a company of body-guards. He vainly courted
Madame de Langeais, fell in love with Clemence Desmarets, followed her, compromised her, and
persecuted her. By his indiscretions he drew upon himself the violent enmity of Gratien Bourignard,
father of Madame Desmarets. In this exciting struggle Maulincour, having neglected the warnings
that many self-imposed accidents had brought upon him, also a duel with the Marquis de Ronquerolles,
was fatally poisoned and soon after followed the old baroness, his grandmother, to Pere-Lachaise.
[The Thirteen.]

MAUNY (Baron de), was killed during the Restoration, or after 1830, in the suburbs of Versailles,
by Victor (the Parisian), who struck him with a hatchet. The murderer finally took refuge at
Aiglemont in the family of his future mistress, Helene. [A Woman of Thirty.]

MAUPIN (Camille). (See Touches, Felicite des.)

MAURICE, valet, employed by the Comte and Comtess de Restaud, during the Restoration. His master
believed his servant to be faithful to his interests, but the valet, on the contrary, was true
to those of the wife who opposed her husband in everything. [Father Goriot. Gobseck.]

MEDAL (Robert), celebrated and talented actor, who was on the Parisian stage in the last years
of Louis Philippe, at the time when Sylvain Pons directed the orchestra in Gaudissart's theatre.
[Cousin Pons.]

MELIN, inn-keeper or "cabaretier" in the west of France, furnished lodging in 1809 to the Royalists
who were afterwards condemned by Mergi, and himself received five years of confinement. [The
Seamy Side of History.]

MELMOTH (John), an Irishman of pronounced English characteristics, a Satanical character, who
made a strange agreement with Rodolphe Castanier, Nucingen's faithless cashier, whereby they
were to make a reciprocal exchange of personalities; in 1821, he died in the odor of holiness,
on rue Ferou, Paris. [Melmoth Reconciled.]

MEMMI (Emilio). (See Varese, Prince de.)

MENE-A-BIEN, cognomen of Coupiau.

MERGI (De), magistrate during the Empire and the Restoration, whose activity was rewarded by
both governments, inasmuch as he always struck the members of the party out of power. In 1809
the court over which he presided was charged with the cases of the "Chauffeurs of Mortagne."
Mergi showed great hatred in his dealings with Madame de la Chanterie. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MERGI (De), son of the preceding, married Vanda de Bourlac. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MERGI (Baronne Vanda de), born Bourlac, of Polish origin on her mother's side, belonged to
the family of Tarlowski, married the son of Mergi, the celebrated magistrate, and having survived
him, was condemned to poverty and sickness; was aided in Paris by Godefroid, a messenger from
Madame de la Chanterie, and attended by her father and Doctors Bianchon, Desplein, Haudry and
Moise Halpersohn, the last of whom finally saved her. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MERGI (Auguste de), during the last half of Louis Philippe's reign was in turn a collegian,
university student and humble clerk in the Palais at Paris; looked after the needs of his mother,
Vanda de Mergi, with sincerest devotion. For her sake he stole four thousand francs from Moise
Halpersohn, but remained unpunished, thanks to one of the Brothers of Consolation, who boarded
with Madame de la Chanterie. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MERKSTUS, banker at Douai, under the Restoration had a bill of exchange for ten thousand francs
signed by Balthazar Claes, and, in 1819, presented it to the latter for collection. [The Quest
of the Absolute.]

MERLE, captain in the Seventy-second demi-brigade; jolly and careless. Killed at La Vivetiere
in December, 1799, by Pille-Miche (Cibot). [The Chouans.]

MERLIN, of Douai, belonged to the convention, of which he was, for two years, one of the five
directors; attorney-general in the court of appeal; in September, 1805, rejected the appeal
of the Simeuses, of the Hauteserres, and of Michu, men who had been condemned for kidnapping
Senator Malin. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

MERLIN (Hector), came to Paris from Limoges, expecting to become a journalist; a Royalist;
during the two years in which Lucien de Rubempre made his literary and political beginning,
Merlin was especially noted. At that time he was Suzanne du Val-Noble's lover, and a polemical
writer for a paper of the Right-Centre; he also brought honor to Andoche Finot's little gazette
by his contributions. As a journalist he was dangerous, and could, if necessary, fill the chair
of the editor-in-chief. In March, 1822, with Theodore Gaillard, he established the "Reveil,"
another kind of "Drapeau Blanc." Merlin had an unattractive face, lighted by two pale-blue
eyes, which were fearfully sharp; his voice had in it something of the mewing of a cat, something
of the hyena's asthmatic gasping. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

MERLIN DE LA BLOTTIERE (Mademoiselle), of a noble family of Tours (1826); Francois Birotteau's
friend. [The Vicar of Tours.]

MERRET (De), gentleman of Picardie, proprietor of the Grande Breteche, near Vendome, under
the Empire; had the room walled up, where he knew the Spaniard Bagos de Feredia, lover of his
wife, was in hiding. He died in 1816 at Paris as a result of excesses. [La Grande Breteche.]

MERRET (Madame Josephine de), wife of the preceding, mistress of Bagos de Feredia, whom she
saw perish almost under her eyes, after she had refused to give him up to her husband. She
died in the same year as Merret, at La Grande Breteche, as a result of the excitement she had
undergone. The story of Madame de Merret was the subject of a vaudeville production given at
the Gymnase-Dramatique under the title of "Valentine." [La Grande Breteche.]

METIVIER, paper merchant on rue Serpente in Paris, under the Restoration; correspondent of
David Sechard, friend of Gobseck and of Bidault, accompanying them frequently to the cafe Themis,
between rue Dauphine and the Quai des Augustins. Having two daughters, and an income of a hundred
thousand francs, he withdrew from business. He was interested in the book business, in connection
with Morand and Barbet; took advantage of Bourlac in 1838; lived on rue Saint-Dominique d'Enfer,
in the Thuillier house in 1840; engaged in usurious transactions with Jeanne-Marie-Brigitte,
Cerizet, Dutocq, discounters of various kinds and titles. [The Seamy Side of History. The Middle
Classes.]

MEYNARDIE (Madame), at Paris, under the Restoration, in all probability, had an establishment
or shop in which Ida Gruget was employed; undoubtedly controlled a house of ill-fame, in which
Esther van Gobseck was a boarder. [The Thirteen. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

MEYRAUX, medical doctor; a scholarly young Parisian, with whom Louis Lambert associated, November,
1819. Until his death in 1832 Meyraux was a member of the rue des Quatre-Vents Cenacle, over
which Daniel d'Arthez presided. [Louis Lambert. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

MICHAUD (Justin), an old chief quartermaster to the cuirassiers of the Imperial Guard, chevalier
of the Legion of Honor. He married one of the Montcornet maids, Olympe Charel, and became,
under the Restoration, head warden of the Montcornet estates at Blangy in Bourgogne. Unknown
to himself he was secretly beloved by Genevieve Niseron. His military frankness and loyal devotion
succumbed before an intrigue formed against him by Sibilet, steward of Aigues, and by the Rigous,
Soudrys, Gaubertins, Fourchons and Tonsards. On account of the complicity of Courtecuisse and
Vaudoyer the bullet fired by Francois Tonsard, in 1823, overcame the vigilance of Michaud.
[The Peasantry.]

MICHAUD (Madame Justin), born Olympe Charel, a virtuous and pretty farmer's daughter of Le
Perche; wife of the preceding; chambermaid of Madame de Montcornet--born Troisville--before
her marriage and induction to Aigues in Bourgogne. Her marriage to Justin Michaud was the outcome
of mutual love. She had in her employ Cornevin, Juliette and Gounod; sheltered Genevieve Niseron,
whose strange disposition she seemed to understand. For her husband, who was thoroughly hated
in the Canton of Blangy, she often trembled, and on the same night that Michaud was murdered
she died from over-anxiety, soon after giving birth to a child which did not survive her. [The
Peasantry.]

MICHEL, writer at Socquard's cafe and coffee-house keeper at Soulanges in 1823. He also looked
after his patron's vineyard and garden. [The Peasantry.]

MICHONNEAU (Christine-Michelle). (See Poiret, the elder, Madame.)

MICHU, during the progress of and after the French Revolution he played a part directly contrary
to his regular political affiliations. His lowly birth, his harsh appearance, and his marriage
with the daughter of a Troyes tanner of advanced opinion, all helped to make his pronounced
Republicanism seem in keeping, although beneath it he hid his Royalist faith and an active
devotion to the Simeuses, the Hauteserres and the Cinq-Cygnes. Michu controlled the Gondreville
estate between 1789 and 1804, after it was snatched from its rightful owners, and under the
Terror he presided over the Jacobin club at Arcis. As a result of the assassination of the
Duc d'Enghien March 21, 1804, he lost his position at Gondreville. Michu then lived not far
from there, near Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, to whom he made known his secret conduct, and, as
a result, became overseer of all the estate attached to the castle. Having publicly shown his
opposition to Malin, he was thought guilty of being leader in a plot to kidnap the new Seigneur
de Gondreville, and was consequently condemned to death, a sentence which was executed, despite
his innocence, October, 1806. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

MICHU (Marthe), wife of the preceding, daughter of a Troyes tanner, "the village apostle of
the Revolution," who, as a follower of Baboeuf, a believer in racial and social equality, was
put to death. A blonde with blue eyes, and of perfect build, in accordance with her father's
desire, despite her modest innocence, posed before a public assembly as the Goddess of Liberty.
Marthe Michu adored her husband, by whom she had a son, Francois, but being ignorant for a
long time of his secret, she lived in a manner separated from him, under her mother's wing.
When she did learn of her husband's Royalist actions, and that he was devoted to the Cinq-Cygnes,
she assisted him, but falling into a skilfuly contrived plot, she innocently brought about
her husband's execution. A forged letter having attracted her to Malin's hiding-place, Madame
Michu furnished all the necessary evidence to make the charge of kidnapping seem plausible.
She also was cast into prison and was awaiting trial when death claimed her, November, 1806.
[The Gondreville Mystery.]

MICHU (Francois), son of the preceding couple, born in 1793. In 1803, while in the service
of the house of Cinq-Cygne, he ferreted out the police-system that Giguet represented. The
tragic death of his parents (a picture of one of them hung on the wall at Cinq-Cygne) caused
his adoption in some way or other by the Marquise Laurence, whose efforts afterwards paved
the way for his career as a lawyer from 1817 to 1819, an occupation which he left, only to
become a magistrate. In 1824 he was associate judge of the Alencon court. Then he was appointed
attorney of the king and received the cross of the Legion of Honor, after the suit against
Victurnien d'Esgrignon by M. du Bosquier and the Liberals. Three years later he performed similar
duties at the Arcis court, over which he presided in 1839. Already wealthy, and receiving an
income of twelve thousand francs granted him in 1814 by Madame de Cinq-Cygne, Francois Michu
married a native of Champagne, Mademoiselle Girel, a Troyes heiress. In Arcis he attended only
the social affairs given by the Cinq-Cygnes, then become allies of the Cadignans, and in fact
never visited any others. [The Gondreville Mystery. Like her husband, she rather looked with
scorn upon Arcis society, in 1839, and departed little from the circle made up of government
officers' families and the Cinq-Cygnes. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

MIGEON, in 1836, porter in the rue des Martyrs house in which Etienne Lousteau lived for three
years; he was commissioned for nine hundred francs by Mme. de la Baudraye, who then lived with
the writer, to carry her jewelry to the pawn-broker. [The Muse of the Department.]

MIGEON (Pamela), daughter of the preceding, born in 1823; in 1837, the intelligent little waiting-maid
of Madame de la Baudraye, when the baronne lived with Lousteau. [The Muse of the Department.]

MIGNON DE LA BASTIE (Charles), born in 1773 in the district of Var, "last member of the family
to which Paris is indebted for the street and the house built by Cardinal Mignon"; went to
war under the Republic; was closely associated with Anne Dumay. At the beginning of the Empire,
as the result of mutual affection, his marriage with Bettina Wallenrod only daughter of a Frankfort
banker took place. Shortly before the return of the Bourbons, he was appointed lieutenant-colonel,
and became commander of the Legion of Honor. Under the Restoration Charles Mignon de la Bastie
lived at Havre with his wife, and acquired forthwith, by means of banking, a large fortune,
which he shortly lost. After absenting himself from the country, he returned, during the last
year of Charles X.'s reign, from the Orient, having become a multi-millionaire. Of his four
children, he lost three, two having died in early childhood, while Bettina Caroline, the third,
died in 1827, after being misled and finally deserted by M. d'Estourny. Marie-Modeste was the
only child remaining, and she was confided during her father's journeys to the care of the
Dumays, who were under obligations to the Mignons; she married Ernest de la Bastie-La Briere
(also called La Briere-la Bastie). The brilliant career of Charles Mignon was the means of
his reassuming the title, Comte de la Bastie. [Modeste Mignon.]

MIGNON (Madame Charles), wife of the preceding, born Bettina Wallenrod-Tustall-Bartenstild,
indulged daughter of a banker in Frankfort-on-the-Main. She became blind soon after her elder
daughter, Bettina-Caroline's troubles and early death, and had a presentiment of the romance
connected with her younger daughter, Marie-Modeste, who became Madame Ernest de la Bastie-La
Briere. Towards the close of the Restoration, Madame Charles Mignon, as the result of an operation
by Desplein, recovered her sight and was a witness of Marie-Modeste's happiness. [Modeste Mignon.]

MIGNON (Bettina-Caroline), elder daughter of the preceding couple; born in 1805, the very image
of her father; a typical Southern girl; was favored by her mother over her younger sister,
Marie-Modeste, a kind of "Gretchen," who was similar in appearance to Madame Mignon. Bettina-Caroline
was seduced, taken away and finally deserted by a "gentleman of fortune," named D'Estourny,
and shortly sank at Havre under the load of her sins and suffering, surrounded by nearly all
of her family. Since 1827 there has been inscribed on her tomb in the little Ingouville cemetery
the following inscription: "Bettina Caroline Mignon, died when twenty-two years of age. Pray
for her!" [Modeste Mignon.]

MIGNON (Marie-Modeste). (See La Bastie-La Briere, Madame Ernest de.)

MIGNONNET, born in 1782, graduate of the military schools, was an artillery captain in the
Imperial Guard, but resigned under the Restoration and lived at Issoudun. Short and thin, but
of dignified bearing; much occupied with science; friend of the cavalry officer Carpentier,
with whom he joined the citizens against Maxence Gilet. Gilet's military partisans, Commandant
Potel and Captain Renard, lived in the Faubourg of Rome, Belleville of the corporation of Berry.
[A Bachelor's Establishment.]

MILAUD, handsome representative of the self-enriched plebeian branch of Milauds; relative of
Jean-Athanase-Polydore Milaud de la Baudraye, in whose marriage he put no confidence, and from
whom he expected to receive an inheritance. Under the favor of Marchangy, he undertook the
career of a public prosecutor. Under Louis XVIII. he was a deputy at Angouleme, a position
to which he was succeeded by maitre Petit-Claud. Milaud eventually performed the same duties
at Nevers, which was probably his native country. [Lost Illusions. The Muse of the Department.]

MILAUD DE LA BAUDRAYE. (See La Baudraye.)

MILLET, Parisian grocer, on rue Chanoinesse, in 1836 attended to the renting of a small unfurnished
room in Madame de la Chanterie's house; gave Godefroid information, after having submitted
him to a rigid examination. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MINARD (Louis), refractory "chauffeur," connected with the Royalist insurrection in western
France, 1809, was tried at the bar of justice, where Bourlac and Mergi presided; he was executed
the same year that he was condemned to death. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MINARD (Auguste-Jean-Francois), as clerk to the minister of finances he received a salary of
fifteen hundred francs. In the florist establishment of a fellow-workman's sister, Mademoiselle
Godard, of rue Richelieu, he met a clerk, Zelie Lorain, the daughter of a porter. He fell in
love with her, married her, and had by her two children, Julien and Prudence. He lived near
the Courcelles gate, and as an economical worker of retiring disposition he was made the butt
of J.-J. Bixiou's jests in the Treasury Department. Necessity gave him fortitude and originality.
After giving up his position in December, 1824, Minard opened a trade in adulterated teas and
chocolates, and subsequently became a distiller. In 1835 he was the richest merchant in the
vicinity, having an establishment on the Place Maubert and one of the best houses on the rue
des Macons-Sorbonne. In 1840 Minard became mayor of the eleventh district, where he lived,
judge of the tribunal of commerce, and officer of the Legion of Honor. He frequently met his
former colleagues of the period of the Restoration: Colleville, Thuillier, Dutocq, Fleury,
Phellion, Xavier Rabourdin, Saillard, Isidore Baudoyer and Godard. On account of her cold and
prudent disposition, she did not persist long in her trial at the Conservatory, but became
a florist's girl in Mademoiselle Godard's establishment on rue Richelieu. After her marriage
to Francois Minard she gave birth to two children, and, with the help of Madame Lorain, her
mother, reared them comfortably near the Courcelles gate. Under Louis Philippe, having become
rich, and living in that part of the Saint-Germain suburbs which lies next to Saint-Jacques,
she showed, as did her husband, the silly pride of the enriched mediocrity. [The Government
Clerks. The Middle Classes.]

MINARD (Julien), son of the preceding couple, attorney; at first considered "the family genius."
In 1840 he committed some indiscretions with Olympe Cardinal, creator of "Love's Telegraphy,"
played at Mourier's small theatre[*] on the Boulevard. His dissipation ended in a separation
brought about by Julien's parents, who contributed to the support of the actress, then become
Madame Cerizet. [The Middle Classes.]

[*] This theatre was built in 1831 on the Boulevard du Temple, where
    the first Ambigu had been situated; it was afterwards moved to No.
    40, rue de Bondy, December 30, 1862.

MINARD (Prudence), sister of the preceding, was sought in marriage by Felix Gaudissart towards
the end of Louis Philippe's reign. [The Middle Classes. Cousin Pons.]

MINETTE,[*] vaudeville actress on rue de Chartres, during the Restoration, died during the
first part of the Second Empire, lawful wife of a director of the Gaz; was well known for her
brilliancy, and was responsible for the saying that "Time is a great faster," quoted sometimes
before Lucien de Rubempre in 1821-22. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

[*] Minette married M. Marguerite; she lived in Paris during the
    last years of her life in the large house at the corner of
    rue Saint-Georges and rue Provence.

MINORETS (The), representatives of the well-known "company of army contractors," in which Mademoiselle
Sophie Laguerre's steward, who preceded Gaubertin at Aigues, in Bourgogne, acquired a one-third
share, after giving up his stewardship. [The Peasantry.] The relatives of Madame Flavie Colleville,
daughter of a ballet-dancer, who was supported by Galathionne and, perhaps, by the contractor,
Du Bourguier, were connected with the Minorets, probably the army contractor Minorets. [The
Government Clerks.]

MINORET (Doctor Denis), born in Nemours in 1746, had the support of Dupont, deputy to the States-General
in 1789, who was his fellow-citizen; he was intimate with the Abbe Morellet, also the pupil
of Rouelle the chemist, and an ardent admirer of Diderot's friend, Bordeu, by means of whom,
or his friends, he gained a large practice. Denis Minoret invented the Lelievre balm, became
an acquaintance and protector of Robespierre, married the daughter of the celebrated harpsichordist,
Valentin Mirouet, died suddenly, soon after the execution of Madame Roland. The Empire, like
the former governments, recompensed Minoret's ability, and he became consulting physician to
His Imperial and Royal Majesty, in 1805, chief hospital physician, officer of the Legion of
Honor, chevalier of Saint-Michel, and member of the Institute. Upon withdrawing to Nemours,
January, 1815, he lived there in company with his ward, Ursule Mirouet, daughter of his brother-in-law,
Joseph Mirouet, later Madame Savinien de Portenduere, a girl whom he had taken care of since
she had become an orphan. As she was the living image of the late Madame Denis Minoret, he
loved her so devotedly that his lawful heirs, Minoret-Levrault, Massin, Cremiere, fearing that
they would lose a large inheritance, mistreated the adopted child. Doctor Minoret, at the time
when he was worried over their plotting, saw Bouvard, a fellow-Parisian with whom he had formerly
associated, and through his influence interested himself greatly in the subject of magnetism.
In 1835, surrounded by some of his nearest relatives, Minoret died at an advanced age, having
been converted from the philosophy of Voltaire through the influence of Ursule, whom he remembered
substantially in his will. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MINORET-LEVRAULT (Francois), son of the oldest brother of the preceding, and his nearest heir,
born in 1769, strong but uncouth and illiterate, had charge of the post-horses and was keeper
of the best tavern in Nemours, as a result of his marriage with Zelie Levrault-Cremiere, an
only daughter. After the Revolution of 1830 he became deputy-mayor. As principle heir to Doctor
Minoret's estate he was the bitterest persecutor of Ursule Mirouet, and made away with the
will which favored the young girl. Later, being compelled to restore her property, overcome
by remorse, and sorrowing for his son, who was the victim of a runaway, and for his insane
wife, Francois Minoret-Levrault became the faithful keeper of the property of Ursule, who had
then become Madame Savinien de Portenduere. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MINORET-LEVRAULT (Madame Francois), wife of the preceding, born Zelie Levrault-Cremiere, physically
feeble, sour of countenance and action, harsh, greedy, as illiterate as her husband, brought
him as dower half of her maiden name (a local tradition) and a first-class tavern. She was,
in reality, the manager of the Nemours post-house. She worshiped her son Desire, whose tragic
death was sufficient punishment for her avaricious persecutions of Ursule de Portenduere. She
died insane in Doctor Blanche's sanitarium in the village of Passy[*] in 1841. [Ursule Mirouet.]

[*] Since 1860 a suburb of Paris.

MINORET (Desire), son of the preceding couple, born in 1805. Obtained a half scholarship in
the Louis-le-Grand lyceum in Paris, through the instrumentality of Fontanes, an acquaintance
of Dr. Minoret; finally studied law. Under Goupil's leadership he became somewhat dissipated
as a young man, and loved in turn Esther van Gobseck and Sophie Grignault--Florine--who, after
declining his offer of marriage, became Madame Nathan. Desire Minoret was not actively associated
with his family in the persecution of Ursule de Portenduere. The Revolution of 1830 was advantageous
to him. He took part during the three glorious days of fighting, received the decoration, and
was selected to be deputy attorney to the king at Fontainebleau. He died as a result of the
injuries received in a runaway, October, 1836. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MIRAH (Josepha), born in 1814. Natural daughter of a wealthy Jewish banker, abandoned in Germany,
although she bore as a sign of her identity an anagram of her Jewish name, Hiram. When fifteen
years old and a working girl in Paris, she was found out and misled by Celestine Crevel, whom
she left eventually for Hector Hulot, a more liberal man. The munificence of the commissary
of stores exalted her socially, and gave her the opportunity of training her voice. Her vocal
attainments established her as a prima donna, first at the Italiens, then on rue le Peletier.
After Hector Hulot became a bankrupt, she abandoned him and his house on rue Chauchat, near
the Royal Academy, where, at different times, had lived Tullia, Comtesse du Bruel and Heloise
Brisetout. The Duc d'Herouville became Mademoiselle Mirah's lover. This affair led to an elegant
reception on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque to which all Paris received invitation. Josepha had at
all times many followers. One of the Kellers and the Marquis d'Esgrignon made fools of themselves
over her. Eugene de Rastignac, at that time minister, invited her to his home, and insisted
upon her singing the celebrated cavatina from "La Muette." Irregular in her habits, whimisical,
covetous, intelligent, and at times good-natured, Josepha Mirah gave some proof of generosity
when she helped the unfortunate Hector Hulot, for whom she went so far as to get Olympe Grenouville.
She finally told Madame Adeline Hulot of the baron's hiding-place on the Passage du Soleil
in the Petite-Pologne section. [Cousin Betty.]

MIRAULT, name of one branch of the Bargeton family, merchants in Bordeaux during the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries. [Lost Illusions.]

MIRBEL (Madame de), well-known miniature-painter from 1796 to 1849; made successively the portrait
of Louise de Chaulieu, given by this young woman to the Baron de Macumer, her future husband;
of Lucien de Rubempre for Esther Gobseck; of Charles X. for the Princess of Cadignan, who hung
it on the wall of her little salon on rue Miromesnil, after the Revolution of 1830. This last
picture bore the inscription, "Given by the King." [Letters of Two Brides. Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life. The Secrets of a Princess.]

MIROUET (Ursule). (See Portenduere, Vicomtesse Savinien de.)

MIROUET (Valentin), celebrated harpsichordist and instrument-maker; one of the best known French
organists; father-in-law of Doctor Minoret; died in 1785. His business was bought by Erard.
[Ursule Mirouet.]

MIROUET (Joseph), natural son of the preceding and brother-in-law of Doctor Denis Minoret.
He was a good musician and of a Bohemian disposition. He was a regiment musician during the
wars in the latter part of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth centuries. He
passed through Germany, and while there married Dinah Grollman, by whom he had a daughter,
Ursule, later the Vicomtesse de Portenduere, who had been left a penniless orphan in her early
youth. [Ursule Mirouet.]

MITANT (La), a very poor woman of Conches in Bourgogne, who was condemned for having let her
cow graze on the Montcornet estate. In 1823 the animal was seized by the deputy, Brunet, and
his assistants, Vermichel and Fourchon. [The Peasantry.]

MITOUFLET, old grenadier of the Imperial Guard, husband of a wealthy vineyard proprietress,
kept the tavern Soleil d'Or at Vouvray in Touraine. After 1830 Felix Gaudissart lived there
and Mitouflet served as his second in a harmless duel brought on by a practical joke played
on the illustrious traveling salesman, dupe of the insane Margaritis. [Gaudissart the Great.]

MITOUFLET, usher to the minister of war under Louis Philippe, in the time of Cottin de Wissembourg,
Hulot d'Ervy and Marneffe. [Cousin Betty.]

MITRAL, a bachelor, whose eyes and face were snuff-colored, a bailiff in Paris during the Restoration,
also at the same time a money-lender. He numbered among his patrons Molineux and Birotteau.
He was invited to the celebrated ball given in December, 1818, by the perfumer. Being a maternal
uncle of Isidore Baudoyer, connected in a friendly way with Bidault--Gigonnet--and Esther-Jean
van Gobseck, Mitral, by their good-will, obtained his nephew's appointment to the Treasury,
December, 1824. He spent his time then in Isle-Adam, the Marais and the Saint-Marceau section,
places of residence of his numerous family. In possession of a fortune, which undoubtedly would
go later to the Isidore Baudoyers, Mitral retired to the Seine-et-Oise division. [Cesar Birotteau.
The Government Clerks.]

MIZERAI, in 1836 a restaurant-keeper on rue Michel-le-Comte, Paris. Zephirin Marcas took his
dinners with him at the rate of nine sous. [Z. Marcas.]

MODINIER, steward to Monsieur de Watteville; "governor" of Rouxey, the patrimonial estate of
the Wattevilles. [Albert Savarus.]

MOINOT, in 1815 mail-carrier for the Chaussee-d'Antin; married and the father of four children;
lived in the fifth story at 11, rue des Trois-Freres, now known as rue Taitbout. He innocently
exposed the address of Paquita Valdes to Laurent, a servant of Marsay, who artfully tried to
obtain it for him. "My name," said the mail-carrier to the servant, "is written just like Moineau
(sparrow)--M-o-i-n-o-t." "Certainly," replied Laurent. [The Thirteen.]

MOISE, Jew, who was formerly a leader of the rouleurs in the South. His wife, La Gonore, was
a widow in 1830. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

MOISE, a Troyes musician, whom Madame Beauvisage thought of employing in 1839 as the instructor
of her daughter, Cecile, at Arcis-sur-Aube. [The Member for Arcis.]

MOLINEUX (Jean-Baptiste), Parisian landlord, miserly and selfish. Mesdames Crochard lived in
one of his houses between rue du Tourniquet-Saint-Jean and rue la Tixeranderie, in 1815. Mesdames
Leseigneur de Rouville and Hippolyte Schinner were also his tenants, at about the same time,
on rue de Surene. Jean-Baptiste Molineux lived on Cour-Batave during the first part of Louis
XVIII.'s reign. He then owned the house next to Cesar Birotteau's shop on rue Saint-Honore.
Molineux was one of the many guests present at the famous ball of December 17, 1818, and a
few months later was the annoying assignee connected with the perfumer's failure. [A Second
Home. The Purse. Cesar Birotteau.]

MOLLOT, through the influence of his wife, Sophie, appointed clerk to the justice of the peace
at Arcis-sur-Aube; often visited Madame Marion, and saw at her home Goulard, Beauvisage, Giguet,
and Herbelot. [The Member for Arcis.]

MOLLOT (Madame Sophie), wife of the preceding, a prying, prating woman, who disturbed herself
greatly over Maxime de Trailles during the electoral campaign in the division of Arcis-sur-Aube,
April, 1839. [The Member for Arcis.]

MOLLOT (Earnestine), daughter of the preceding couple, was, in 1839, a young girl of marriageable
age. [The Member for Arcis.]

MONGENOD, born in 1764; son of a grand council attorney, who left him an income of five or
six thousand. Becoming bankrupt during the Revolution, he became first a clerk with Frederic
Alain, under Bordin, the solicitor. He was unsuccessful in several ventures: as a journalist
with the "Sentinelle," started or built up by him; as a musical composer with the "Peruviens,"
an opera-comique given in 1798 at the Feydau theatre.[*] His marriage and the family expenses
attendant rendered his financial condition more and more embarrassing. Mongenod had lent money
to Frederic Alain, so that he might be present at the opening performance of the "Marriage
de Figaro." He borrowed, in turn, from Alain a sum of money which he was unable to return at
the time agreed. He set out thereupon for America, made a fortune, returned January, 1816,
and reimbursed Alain. From this time dates the opening of the celebrated Parisian banking-house
of Mongenod & Co. The firm-name changed to Mongenod & Son, and then to Mongenod Brothers. In
1819 the bankruptcy of the perfumer, Cesar Birotteau, having taken place, Mongenod became personally
interested at the Bourse,[+] in the affair, negotiating with merchants and discounters. Mongenod
died in 1827. [The Seamy Side of History. Cesar Birotteau.]

[*] The Feydau theatre, with its dependencies on the thoroughfare of
    the same name, existed in Paris until 1826 on the site now taken
    by the rue de la Bourse.

[+] The Bourse temporarily occupied a building on rue Feydau, while
    the present palace was building.

MONGENOD (Madame Charlotte), wife of the preceding, in the year 1798 bore up bravely under
her poverty, even selling her hair for twelve francs that her family might have bread. Wealthy,
and a widow after 1827, Madame Mongenod remained the chief adviser and support of the bank,
operated in Paris on rue de la Victoire, by her two sons, Frederic and Louis. [The Seamy Side
of History.]

MONGENOD (Frederic), eldest of the preceding couple's three children, received from his thankful
parents the given name of M. Alain and became, after 1827, the head of his father's banking-house
on rue de la Victoire. His honesty is shown by the character of his patrons, among whom were
the Marquis d'Espard, Charles Mignon de la Bastie, the Baronne de la Chanterie and Godefroid.
[The Commission in Lunacy. The Seamy Side of History.]

MONGENOD (Louis), younger brother of the preceding, with whom he had business association on
rue de la Victoire, where he was receiving the prudent advice of his mother, Madame Charlotte
Mongenod, when Godefroid visited him in 1836. [The Seamy Side of History.]

MONGENOD (Mademoiselle), daughter of Frederic and Charlotte Mongenod, born in 1799; she was
offered in marriage, January, 1816, to Frederic Alain, who would not accept this token of gratitude
from the wealthy Mongenods. Mademoiselle Mongenod married the Vicomte de Fontaine. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

MONISTROL, native of Auvergne, a Parisian broker, towards the last years of Louis Phillippe's
reign, successively on rue de Lappe and the new Beaumarchais boulevard. He was one of the pioneers
in the curio business, along with the Popinots, Ponses, and the Remonencqs. This kind of business
afterwards developed enormously. [Cousin Pons.]

MONTAURAN (Marquis Alophonse de), was, in the closing years of the eighteenth century, connected
with nearly all of the well-known Royalist intrigues in France and elsewhere. He frequently
visited, along with Flamet de la Billardiere and the Comte de Fontaine, the home of Ragon,
the perfumer, who was proprietor of the "Reine des Roses," from which went forth the Royalist
correspondence between the West and Paris. Too young to have been at Versailles, Alphonse de
Montauran had not "the courtly manners for which Lauzun, Adhemar, Coigny, and so many others
were noted." His education was incomplete. Towards the autumn of 1799 he especially distinguished
himself. His attractive appearance, his youth, and a mingled gallantry and authoritativeness,
brought him to the notice of Louis XVIII., who appointed him governor of Bretagne, Normandie,
Maine and Anjou. Under the name of Gras, having become commander of the Chouans, in September,
the marquis conducted them in an attack against the Blues on the plateau of La Pelerine, which
extends between Fougeres, Ille-et-Vilaine, and Ernee, Mayenne. Madame du Gua did not leave
him even then. Alphonse de Montauran sought the hand of Mademoiselle d'Uxelles, after leaving
this, the last mistress of Charette. Nevertheless, he fell in love with Marie de Verneuil,
the spy, who had entered Bretagne with the express intention of delivering him to the Blues.
He married her in Fougeres, but the Republicans murdered him and his wife a few hours after
their marriage. [Cesar Birotteau. The Chouans.]

MONTAURAN (Marquise Alphonse de), wife of the preceding; born Marie-Nathalie de Verneuil at
La Chanterie near Alencon, natural daughter of Mademoiselle Blanche de Casteran, who was abbess
of Notre-Dame de Seez at the time of her death, and of Victor-Amedee, Duc de Verneuil, who
owned her and left her an inheritance, at the expense of her legitimate brother. A lawsuit
between brother and sister resulted. Marie-Nathalie lived then with her guardian, the Marechal
Duc de Lenoncourt, and was supposed to be his mistress. After vainly trying to bring him to
the point of marriage she was cast off by him. She passed through divers political and social
paths during the Revolutionary period. After having shone in court circles she had Danton for
a lover. During the autumn of 1799 Fouche hired Marie de Verneuil to betray Alphonse de Montauran,
but the lovely spy and the chief of the Chouans fell in love with each other. They were united
in marriage a few hours before their death towards the end of that year, 1799, in which Jacobites
and Chouans fought on Bretagne soil. Madame de Montauran was attired in her husband's clothes
when a Republican bullet killed her. [The Chouans.]

MONTAURAN (Marquis de), younger brother of Alphonse de Montauran, was in London, in 1799, when
he received a letter from Colonel Hulot containing Alphonse's last wishes. Montauran complied
with them; returned to France, but did not fight against his country. He kept his wealth through
the intervention of Colonel Hulot and finally served the Bourbons in the gendarmerie, where
he himself became a colonel. When Louis Philippe came to the throne, Montauran believed an
absolute retirement necessary. Under the name of M. Nicolas, he became one of the Brothers
of Consolation, who met in Madame de la Chanterie's home on rue Chanoinesse. He saved M. Auguste
de Mergi from being prosecuted. In 1841 Montauran was seen on rue du Montparnasse, where he
assisted at the funeral of the elder Hulot. [The Chouans. The Seamy Side of History. Cousin Betty.]

MONTBAURON (Marquise de), Raphael de Valentin's aunt, died on the scaffold during the Revolution.
[The Magic Skin.]

MONTCORNET (Marechal, Comte de), Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor,
Commander of Saint-Louis, born in 1774, son of a cabinet-maker in the
Faubourg Saint-Antoine, "child of Paris," mingled in almost all of the
wars in the latter part of the eighteenth and beginning of the
nineteenth centuries. He commanded in Spain and in Pomerania, and was
colonel of cuirassiers in the Imperial Guard. He took the place of his
friend, Martial de la Roche-Hugon in the affections of Madame de
Vaudremont. The Comte de Montcornet was in intimate relations with
Madame or Mademoiselle Fortin, mother of Valerie Crevel. Towards 1815,
Montcornet bought, for about a hundred thousand francs, the Aigues,
Sophie Laguerre's old estate, situated between Conches and Blangy,
near Soulanges and Ville-aux-Fayes. The Restoration allured him. He
wished to have his origin overlooked, to gain position under the new
regime, to efface all memory of the expressive nick-name received from
the Bourgogne peasantry, who called him the "Upholsterer." In the
early part of 1819 he married Virginie de Troisville. His property,
increased by an income of sixty thousand francs, allowed him to live
in state. In winter he occupied his beautiful Parisian mansion on rue
Neuve-des-Mathurins, now called rue des Mathurins, and visited many
places, especially the homes of Raoul Nathan and of Esther Gobseck.
During the summer the count, then mayor of Blangy, lived at Aigues.
His unpopularity and the hatred of the Gaubertins, Rigous, Sibilets,
Soudrys, Tonsards, and Fourchons rendered his sojourn there
unbearable, and he decided to dispose of the estate. Montcornet,
although of violent disposition and weak character, could not avoid
being a subordinate in his own family. The monarchy of 1830
overwhelmed Montcornet, then lieutenant-general unattached, with
gifts, and gave a division of the army into his command. The count,
now become marshal, was a frequent visitor at the Vaudeville.[*]
Montcornet died in 1837. He never acknowledged his daughter, Valerie
Crevel, and left her nothing. He is probably buried in Pere-Lachaise
cemetery, where a monument was to be raised for him under W.
Steinbock's supervision. Marechal de Montcornet's motto was: "Sound
the Charge." Rue de
    Chartres, which also disappeared, although later, was located
    between the Palais-Royal square and the Place du Carrousel.

MONTCORNET (Comtesse de.) (See Blondet, Madame Emile.)

MONTEFIORE, Italian of the celebrated Milanese family of Montefiore, commissary in the Sixth
of the line under the Empire; one of the finest fellows in the army; marquis, but unable under
the laws of the kingdom of Italy to use his title. Thrown by his disposition into the "mould
of the Rizzios," he barely escaped being assassinated in 1808 in the city of Tarragone by La
Marana, who surprised him in company with her daughter, Juana-Pepita-Maria de Mancini, afterwards
Francois Diard's wife. Later, Montefiore himself married a celebrated Englishwoman. In 1823
he was killed and plundered in a deserted alley in Bordeaux by Diard, who found him, after
being away many years, in a gambling-house at a watering-place. [The Maranas.]

MONTES DE MONTEJANOS (Baron), a rich Brazilian of wild and primitive disposition; towards 1840,
when very young, was one of the first lovers of Valerie Fortin, who became in turn Madame Marneffe
and Madame Celestin Crevel. He saw her again at the Faubourg Saint-Germain and at the Place
or Pate des Italiens, and had occasion for being envious of Hector Hulot, W. Steinbock and
still others. He had revenge on his mistress by communicating to her a mysterious disease from
which she died in the same manner as Celestin Crevel. [Cousin Betty.]

MONTPERSAN (Comte de), nephew of a canon of Saint-Denis, upon whom he called frequently; an
aspiring rustic, grown sour on account of disappointment and deceit; married, and head of a
family. At the beginning of the Restoration he owned the Chateau de Montpersan, eight leagues
from Moulins in Allier, where he lived. In 1819 he received a call from a young stranger who
came to inform him of the death of Madame de Montpersan's lover. [The Message.]

MONTPERSAN (Comtesse Juliette de), wife of the preceding, born about 1781, lived at Montpersan
with her family, and while there learned from her lover's fellow-traveler of the former's death
as a result of an overturned carriage. The countess rewarded the messenger of misfortune in
a delicate manner. [The Message.]

MONTPERSAN (Mademoiselle de), daughter of the preceding couple, was but a child when the sorrowful
news arrived which caused her mother to leave the table. The child, thinking only of the comical
side of affairs, remarked upon her father's gluttony, suggesting that the countess' abrupt
departure had allowed him to break the rules of diet imposed by her presence. [The Message.]

MONTRIVEAU (General Marquis de), father of Armand de Montriveau. Although a knighted chevalier,
he continued to hold fast to the exalted manners of Bourgogne, and scorned the opportunities
which rank and wealth had offered in his birth. Being an encyclopaedist and "one of those already
mentioned who served the Republic nobly," Montriveau was killed at Novi near Joubert's side.
[The Thirteen.]

MONTRIVEAU (Comte de), paternal uncle of Armand de Montriveau. Corpulent, and fond of oysters.
Unlike his brother he emigrated, and in his exile met with a cordial reception by the Dulmen
branch of the Rivaudoults of Arschoot, a family with which he had some relationship. He died
at St. Petersburg. [The Thirteen.]

MONTRIVEAU (General Marquis Armand de), nephew of the preceding and only son of General de
Montriveau. As a penniless orphan he was entered by Bonaparte in the school of Chalons. He
went into the artillery service, and took part in the last campaigns of the Empire, among others
that in Russia. At the battle of Waterloo he received many serious wounds, being then a colonel
in the Guard. Montriveau passed the first three years of the Restoration far away from Europe.
He wished to explore the upper sections of Egypt and Central Africa. After being made a slave
by savages he escaped from their hands by a bold ruse and returned to Paris, where he lived
on rue de Seine near the Chamber of Peers. Despite his poverty and lack of ambition and influential
friends, he was soon promoted to a general's position. His association with The Thirteen, a
powerful and secret band of men, who counted among their members Ronquerolles, Marsay and Bourignard,
probably brought him this unsolicited favor. This same freemasonry aided Montriveau in his
desire to have revenge on Antoinette de Langeais for her delicate flirtation; also later, when
still feeling for her the same passion, he seized her body from the Spanish Carmelites. About
the same time the general met, at Madame de Beauseant's, Rastignac, just come to Paris, and
told him about Anastasie de Restaud. Towards the end of 1821, the general met Mesdames d'Espard
and de Bargeton, who were spending the evening at the Opera. Montriveau was the living picture
of Kleber, and in a kind of tragic way became a widower by Antoinette de Langeais. Having become
celebrated for a long journey fraught with adventures, he was the social lion at the time he
ran across a companion of his Egyptian travels, Sixte du Chatelet. Before a select audience
of artists and noblemen, gathered during the first years of the reign of Louis Philippe at
the home of Mademoiselle des Touches, he told how he had unwittingly been responsible for the
vengeance taken by the husband of a certain Rosina, during the time of the Imperial wars. Montriveau,
now admitted to the peerage, was in command of a department. At this time, having become unfaithful
to the memory of Antoinette de Langeais, he became enamored of Madame Rogron, born Bathilde
de Chargeboeuf, who hoped soon to bring about their marriage. In 1839, in company with M. de
Ronquerolles, he beame second to the Duc de Rhetore, elder brother of Louise de Chaulieu, in
his duel with Dorlange-Sallenauve, brought about because of Marie Gaston. [The Seamy Side of
History.]

MOREAU, born in 1772, son of a follower of Danton, procureur-syndic at Versailles during the
Revolution; was Madame Clapart's devoted lover, and remained faithful almost all the rest of
his life. After a very adventurous life Moreau, about 1805, became manager of the Presles estate,
situated in the valley of the Oise, which was the property of the Comte de Serizy. He married
Estelle, maid of Leontine de Serizy, and had by her three children. After serving as manager
of the estate for seventeen years, he gave up his position, when his dishonest dealings with
Leger were exposed by Reybert, and retired a wealthy man. A silly deed of his godson, Oscar
Husson, was, more than anything else, the cause of his dismissal from his position at Presles.
Moreau attained a lofty position under Louis Philippe, having grown wealthy through real-estate,
and became the father-in-law of Constant-Cyr-Melchior de Canalis. At last he became a prominent
deputy of the Centre under the name of Moreau of the Oise. [A Start in Life.]

MOREAU (Madame Estelle), fair-skinned wife of the preceding, born of lowly origin at Saint-Lo,
became maid to Leontine de Serizy. Her fortune made, she became overbearing and received Oscar
Husson, son of Madame Clapart by her first husband, with unconcealed coldness. She bought the
flowers for her coiffure from Nattier, and, wearing some of them, she was seen, in the autumn
of 1822, by Joseph Bridau and Leon de Lora, who had just arrived from Paris to do some decorating
in the chateau at Serizy. [A Start in Life.]

MOREAU (Jacques), eldest of the preceding couple's three children, was the agent between his
mother and Oscar Husson at Presles. [A Start in Life.]

MOREAU, the best upholsterer in Alencon, rue de la Porte-de-Seez, near the church; in 1816
furnished Madame du Bousquier, then Mademoiselle Rose Cormon, the articles of furniture made
necessary by M. de Troisville's unlooked-for arrival at her home on his return from Russia.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

MOREAU, an aged workman at Dauphine, uncle of little Jacques Colas, lived, during the Restoration,
in poverty and resignation, with his wife, in the village near Grenoble--a place which was
completely changed by Doctor Benassis. [The Country Doctor.]

MOREAU-MALVIN, "a prominent butcher," died about 1820. His beautiful tomb of white marble ornaments
rue du Marechal-Lefebvre at Pere-Lachaise, near the burial-place of Madame Jules Desmarets
and Mademoiselle Raucourt of the Comedie-Francaise. [The Thirteen.]

MORILLON (Pere), a priest, who had charge, for some time under the Empire, of Gabriel Claes'
early education. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

MORIN (La), a very poor old woman who reared La Fosseuse, an orphan, in a kindly manner in
a market-town near Grenoble, but who gave her some raps on the fingers with her spoon when
the child was too quick in taking soup from the common porringer. La Morin tilled the soil
like a man, and murmured frequently at the miserable pallet on which she and La Fosseuse slept.
[The Country Doctor.]

MORIN (Jeanne-Marie-Victoire Tarin, veuve), accused of trying to obtain money by forging signatures
to promissory-notes, also of the attempted assassination of Sieur Ragoulleau; condemned by
the Court of Assizes at Paris on January 11, 1812, to twenty years hard labor. The elder Poiret,
a man who never thought independently, was a witness for the defence, and often thought of
the trial. The widow Morin, born at Pont-sur-Seine, Aube, was a fellow-countrywoman of Poiret,
who was born at Troyes. [Father Goriot.] Many extracts have been taken from the items published
about this criminal case.

MORISSON, an inventor of purgative pills, which were imitated by Doctor Poulain, physician
to Pons and the Cibots, when, as a beginner, he wished to make his fortune rapidly. [Cousin Pons.]

MORTSAUF (Comte de), head of a Touraine family, which owed to an ancestor of Louis XI.'s reign--a
man who had escaped the gibbet--its fortune, coat-of-arms and position. The count was the incarnation
of the "refugee." Exiled, either willingly or unwillingly, his banishment made him weak of
mind and body. He married Blanche-Henriette de Lenoncourt, by whom he had two children, Jacques
and Madeleine. On the accession of the Bourbons he was breveted field-marshal, but did not
leave Clochegourde, a castle brought to him in his wife's dowry and situated on the banks of
the Indre and the Cher. [The Lily of the Valley.]

MORTSAUF (Comtesse de),[*] wife of the preceding; born Blanche-Henriette de Lenoncourt, of
the "house of Lenoncourt-Givry, fast becoming extinct," towards the first years of the Restoration;
was born after the death of three brothers, and thus had a sorrowful childhood and youth; found
a good foster-mother in her aunt, a Blamont-Chauvry; and when married found her chief pleasure
in the care of her children. This feeling gave her the power to repress the love which she
felt for Felix de Vandenesse, but the effort which this hard struggle caused her brought on
a severe stomach disease of which she died in 1820. [The Lily of the Valley.]

[*] Beauplan and Barriere presented a play at the Comedie-Francaise,
    having for a heroine Madame de Mortsauf, June 14, 1853.

MORTSAUF (Jacques de), elder child of the preceding couple, pupil of Dominis, most delicate
member of the family, died prematurely. With his death the line of Lenoncourt-Givrys proper
passed away, for he would have been their heir. [The Lily of the Valley.]

MORTSAUF (Madeleine de), sister of the preceding; after her mother's death she would not receive
Felix de Vandenesse, who had been Madame de Mortsauf's lover. She became in time Duchesse de
Lenoncourt-Givry (See that name). [The Lily of the Valley.]

MOUCHE, born in 1811, illegitimate son of one of Fourchon's natural daughters and a soldier
who died in Russia; was given a home, when an orphan, by his maternal grandfather, whom he
aided sometimes as ropemaker's apprentice. About 1823, in the district of Ville-aux-Fayes,
Bourgogne, he profited by the credulity of the strangers whom he was supposed to teach the
art of hunting otter. Mouche's attitude and conversation, as he came in the autumn of 1823
to the Aigues, scandalized the Montcornets and their guests. [The Peasantry.]

MOUCHON, eldest of three brothers who lived in 1793 in the Bourgogne valley of Avonne or Aigues;
managed the estate of Ronquerolles; became deputy of his division to the Convention; had a
reputation for uprightness; preserved the property and the life of the Ronquerolles; died in
the year 1804, leaving two daughters, Mesdames Gendrin and Gaubertin. [The Peasantry.]

MOUCHON, brother of the preceding, had charge of the relay post-house at Conches, Bourgogne;
had a daughter who married the wealthy farmer Guerbet; died in 1817. [The Peasantry.]

MOUGIN, born about 1805 in Toulouse, fifth of the Parisian hair-dressers who, under the name
of Marius, successively owned the same business. In 1845, a wealthy married man of family,
captain in the Guard and decorated after 1832, an elector and eligible to office, he had established
himself on the Place de la Bourse as capillary artist emeritus, where his praises were sung
by Bixiou and Lora to the wondering Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

MOUILLERON, king's attorney at Issoudun in 1822, cousin to every person in the city during
the quarrels between the Rouget and Bridau families. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

MURAT (Joachim, Prince). In October, 1800, on the day in which Bartolomeo de Piombo was presented
by Lucien Bonaparte, he was, with Lannes and Rapp, in the rooms of Bonaparte, the First Consul.
He became Grand Duke of Berg in 1806, the time of the well-known quarrel between the Simeuses
and Malin de Gondreville. Murat came to the rescue of Colonel Chabert's cavalry regiment at
the battle of Eylau, February 7 and 8, 1807. "Oriental in tastes," he exhibited, even before
acceding to the throne of Naples in 1808, a foolish love of luxury for a modern soldier. Twenty
years later, during a village celebration in Dauphine, Benassis and Genestas listened to the
story of Bonaparte, as told by a veteran, then became a laborer, who mingled with his narrative
a number of entertaining stories of the bold Murat. [The Vendetta. [Father Goriot.]

MUSSON, well-known hoaxer in the early part of the nineteenth century. The policeman, Peyrade,
imitated his craftiness in manner and disguise twenty years later, while acting as an English
nabob keeping Suzanne Gaillard. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

                                  N

NANON, called Nanon the Great from her height (6 ft. 4 in.); born about 1769. First she tended
cows on a farm that she was forced to leave after a fire; turned away on every side, because
of her appearance, which was repulsive, she became, about 1791, at the age of twenty-two, a
member of Felix Grandet's household at Saumur, where she remained the rest of her life. She
always showed gratitude to her master for having taken her in. Brave, devoted and serious-minded,
the only servant of the miser, she received as wages for very hard service only sixty francs
a year. However, the accumulations of even so paltry an income allowed her, in 1819, to make
a life investment of four thousand francs with Monsieur Cruchot. Nanon had also an annuity
of twelve hundred francs from Madame de Bonfons, lived near the daughter of her former master,
who was dead, and, about 1827, being almost sixty years of age, married Antoine Cornoiller.
With her husband, she continued her work of devoted service to Eugenie de Bonfons. [Eugenie
Grandet.]

NAPOLITAS, in 1830, secretary of Bibi-Lupin, chief of the secret police. Prison spy at the
Conciergerie, he played the part of a son in a family accused of forgery, in order to observe
closely Jacques Collin, who pretended to be Carlos Herrera. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

NARZICOF (Princess), a Russian; had left to the merchant Fritot, according to his own account,
as payment for supplies, the carriage in which Mistress Noswell, wrapped in the shawl called
Selim, returned to the Hotel Lawson. [Gaudissart II.]

NATHAN (Raoul), son of a Jew pawn-broker, who died in bankruptcy a short while after marrying
a Catholic, was for twenty-five years (1820-45) one of the best known writers in Paris. Raoul
Nathan touched upon many branches: the journal, romance, poetry and the stage. In 1821, Dauriat
published for him an imaginative work which Lucien de Rubempre alternately praised and criticized.
The harsh criticism was meant for the publisher only. Nathan then put on the stage the "Alcade
dans l'Embarras"--a comedie called an "imbroglio" and presented at the Panorama-Dramatique.
He signed himself simply "Raoul"; he had as collaborator Cursy--M. du Bruel. The play was a
distinct success. About the same time, he supplanted Lousteau, lover of Florine, one of his
leading actresses. About this time also Raoul was on terms of intimacy with Emile Blondet,
who wrote him a letter dated from Aigues (Bourgogne) in which he described the Montcornets,
and related their local difficulties. Raoul Nathan, a member of all the giddy and dissipated
social circles, was with Giroudeau, Finot and Bixiou, a witness of Philip Bridau's wedding
to Madame J.-J. Rouget. He visited Florentine Cabirolle, when the Marests and Oscar Husson
were there, and appeared often on the rue Saint-Georges, at the home of Esther van Gobseck,
who was already much visited by Blondet, Bixiou and Lousteau. Raoul, at this time, was much
occupied with the press, and made a great parade of Royalism. The accession of Louis Philippe
did not diminish the extended circle of his relations. The Marquise d'Espard received him.
It was at her house that he heard evil reports of Diane de Cadignan, greatly to the dissatisfaction
of Daniel d'Arthez, also present. Marie de Vandenesse, just married, noticed Nathan, who was
handsome by reason of an artistic, uncouth ugliness, and elegant irregularity of features,
and Raoul resolved to make the most of the situation. Although turned Republican, he took very
readily to the idea of winning a lady of the aristocracy. During the first years of Louis Philippe's
reign, Nathan presented a flaming and brilliant drama, the two collaborators in which were
Monsieur and Madame Marie Gaston, whose names were indicated on the hand-bills by stars only.
In his younger days he had had a play of his put on at the Odeon, a romantic work after the
style of "Pinto,"[*] at a time when the classic was dominant, and the stage had been so greatly
stirred up for three days that the play was prohibited. At another time he presented at the
Theatre-Francais a great drama that fell "with all the honors of war, amid the roar of newspaper
cannon." In the winter of 1837-38, Vanda de Mergi read a new romance of Nathan's, entitled
"La Perle de Dol." Nathan sought the society of Madame de la Baudraye, who got from him, in
the rue de Chartres-du-Roule, at the home of Beatrix de Rochefide, a certain story, to be arranged
as a novel, related more or less after the style of Sainte-Beuve, concerning the Bohemians
and their prince, Rusticoli de la Palferine. Raoul cultivated likewise the society of the Marquise
de Rochefide, and, one evening of October, 1840, a proscenium box at the Varietes was the means
of bringing together Canalis, Nathan and Beatrix. Received everywhere, perfectly at home in
Marguerite Turquet's boudoir, Raoul, as a member of a group composed of Bixiou, La Palferine
and Maitre Cardot, heard Maitre Desroches tell how Cerizet made use of Antonia Chocardelle,
to "get even" with Maxime de Trailles. Nathan afterwards married his misress, Florine, whose
maiden name was really Sophie Grignault.

NATHAN,[*] (Madame Raoul), wife of the preceding, born Sophie Grignault, in 1805, in Bretagne.
She was a perfect beauty, her foot alone left something to be desired. When very young she
tried the double career of pleasure and the stage under the now famous name of Florine. The
details of her early life are rather obscure: Madame Nathan, as supernumerary of the Gaite,
had six lovers, before choosing Etienne Lousteau in that relation in 1821. She was at that
time closely connected with Florentine Cabirolle, Claudine Chaffaroux, Coralie and Marie Godeschal.
She had also a supporter in Matifat, the druggist, and lodged on the rue de Bondy, where, after
a brilliant success at the Panorama-Dramatique, with Coralie and Bouffe, she received in maginficent
style the diplomatists, Lucien de Rubempre, Camusot and others. Florine soon made an advantageous
change in lover, home, theatre and protector; Nathan, whom she afterwards married, supplanted
Lousteau about the middle of Louis Philippe's reign. Her home was on rue Hauteville intead
of rue de Bondy; and she had moved from the stage of the Panorama to that of the Gymnase. Having
made an engagement at the theatre of the Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle, she met there her old rival,
Coralie, against whom she organized a cabal; she was distinguished for the brilliancy of her
costumes, and brought into her train of followers successively the opulent Dudley, Desire Minoret,
M. des Grassins, the banker of Saumur, and M. du Rouvre; she even ruined the last two. Florine's
fortune rose during the monarchy of July. Her association with Nathan subserved, moreover,
their mutual interests; the poet won respect for the actress, who knew moreover how to make
herself formidable by her spirit of intrigue and the tartness of her sallies of wit. Who did
not know her mansion on the rue Pigalle? Indeed, Madame Nathan was an intimate acquaintance
of Coralie, Esther la Torpille, Claudine du Bruel, Euphrasie, Aquilina, Madame Theodore Gaillard,
and Marie Godeschal; entertained Emile Blondet, Andoche Finot, Etienne Lousteau, Felicien Vernou,
Couture, Bixiou, Rastignac, Vignon, F. du Tillet, Nucingen, and Conti. Her apartments were
embellished with the works of Bixiou, F. Souchet, Joseph Bridau, and H. Schinner. Madame de
Vandenesse, being somewhat enamored of Nathan, would have destroyed these joys and this splendor,
without heeding the devotion of the writer's mistress, on the one hand, or the interference
of Vandenesse on the other. Florine, having entirely won back Nathan, made no delay in marrying
him.

NAVARREINS (Duc de), born about 1767, son-in-law of the Prince de Cadignan, through his first
marriage; father of Antoinette de Langeais, kinsman of Madame d'Espard, and cousin of Valentin;
accused of "haughtiness." He was patron of M. du Bruel--Cursy--on his entrance into the government
service; had a lawsuit against the hospitals, which he entrusted to the care of Maitre Derville.
He had Polydore de la Baudraye dignified to the appointment of collector, in consideration
of his having released him from a debt contracted during the emigration; held a family council
with the Grandlieus and Chaulieus when his daughter compromised her reputation by accepting
an invitation to the house of Montriveau; was the patron of Victurnien d'Esgrignon; owned near
Ville-aux-Fayes, in the sub-prefecture of Auxerrois, extensive estates, which were respected
by Montcornet's enemies, the Gaubertins, the Rigous, the Soudrys, the Fourchons, and the Tonsards;
accompanied Madame d'Espard to the Opera ball, when Jacques Collin and Lucien de Rubempre mystified
the marchioness; for five hundred thousand francs sold to the Graslins his estates and his
Montegnac forest, near Limoges; was an acquaintance of Foedora through Valentin; was a visitor
of the Princesse de Cadignan, after the death of their common father-in-law, of whom he had
little to make boast, especially in matters of finance. The Duc de Navarrein's mansion at Paris
was on the rue du Bac. [A Bachelor's Establishment. Negrepelisse survived by several years
his son-in-law, whom he took under his roof when Anais de Bargeton went to Paris in the summer
of 1821. [The Commission in Lunacy. Lost Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

NEGREPELISSE (Comte Clement de), born in 1812; cousin of the preceding, who left him his title.
He was the elder of the two legitimate sons of the Marquis d'Espard. He studied at College
Henri IV., and lived in Paris, under their father's roof, on the rue de la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve.
The Comte de Negrepelisse seldom visited his mother, the Marquise d'Espard, who lived apart
from her family in the Faubourg Saint-Honore. [Honorine.]

NEPOMUCENE, a foundling; servant-boy of Madame Vauthier, manager and door-keeper of the house
on the Boulevard Montparnasse, which was occupied by the families of Bourlac and Mergi. Nepomucene
usually wore a ragged blouse and, instead of shoes, gaiters or wooden clogs. To his work with
Madame Vauthier was added daily work in the wood-yards of the vicinity, and, on Sundays and
Mondays, during the summer, he worked also with the wine-merchants at the barrier. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

NERAUD, a physician at Provins during the Restoration. He ruined his wife, who was the widow
of a grocer named Auffray, and who had married him for love. He survived her. Being a man of
doubtful character and a rival of Dr. Martener, Neraud attached himself to the party of Gouraud
and Vinet, who represented Liberal ideas; he failed to uphold Pierrette Lorrain, the granddaughter
of Auffray, against her guardians, the Rogrons. [Pierrette.]

NERAUD (Madame), wife of the preceding. Married first to Auffray, the grocer, who was sixty
years old; she was only thirty-eight at the beginning of her widowhood; she married Dr. Neraud
almost immediately after the death of her first husband. By her first marriage she had a daughter,
who was the wife of Major Lorrain, and the mother of Pierrette. Madame Neraud died of grief,
amid squalid surroundings, two years after her second marriage. The Rogrons, descended from
old Auffray by his first marriage, had stripped her of almost all she had. [Pierrette.]

NICOLAS. (See Montauran, Marquis de.)

NINETTE, born in 1832, "rat" at the Opera in Paris, was acquainted with Leon de Lora and J.-J.
Bixiou, who called Gazonal's attention to her in 1845. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

NOLLAND (Abbe), the promising pupil of Abbe Roze. Concealed during the Revolution at the house
of M. de Negrepelisse, near Barbezieux, he had in charge the education of Marie-Louise-Anais
(afterwards Madame de Bargeton), and taught her music, Italian and German. He died in 1802.
[Lost Illusions.]

NISERON, curate of Blangy (Bourgogne) before the Revolution; predecessor of Abbe Brossette
in this curacy; uncle of Jean-Francois Niseron. He was led by a childish but innocent indiscretion
on the part of his great-niece, as well as by the influence of Dom Rigou, to disinherit the
Niserons in the interests of the Mesdemoiselles Pichard, house-keepers in his family. [The
Peasantry.]

NISERON (Jean-Francois), beadle, sacristan, chorister, bell-ringer, and grave-digger of the
parish of Blangy (Bourgogne), during the Restoration; nephew and only heir of Niseron the cure;
born in 1751. He was delighted at the Revolution, was the ideal type of the Republican, a sort
of Michel Chrestien of the fields; treated with cold disdain the Pichard family, who took from
him the inheritance, to which he alone had any right; lived a life of poverty and sequestration;
was none the less respected; was of Montcornet's party represented by Brossette; their opponent,
Gregoire Rigou, felt for him both esteem and fear. Jean-Francois Niseron lost, one after another,
his wife and his two children, and had by his side, in his old days, only Genevieve, natural
daughter of his deceased son, Auguste. [The Peasantry.]

NISERON (Auguste), son of the preceding; soldier of the Republic and of the Empire; while an
artilleryman in 1809, he seduced, at Zahara, a young Montenegrin, Zena Kropoli, who died, at
Vincennes, early in the year 1810, leaving him an infant daughter. Thus he could not realize
his purpose of marrying her. He himself was killed, before Montereau, during the year 1814,
by the bursting of a shell. [The Peasantry.]

NISERON (Genevieve), natural daughter of the preceding and the Montenegrin woman, Zena Kropoli;
born in 1810, and named Genevieve after a paternal aunt; an orphan from the age of four, she
was reared in Bourgogne by her grandfather, Jean-Francois Niseron. She had her father's beauty
and her mother's peculiarities. Her patronesses, Madame Montcornet and Madame de Michaud, bestowed
upon her the surname Pechina, and, to guard her against Nicholas Tonsard's attentions, placed
her in a convent at Auxerre, where she might acquire skill in sewing and forget Justin Michaud,
whom she loved unconsciously. [The Peasantry.]

NOEL, book-keeper for Jean-Jules Popinot of Paris, in 1828, at the time that the judge questioned
the Marquis d'Espard, whose wife tried to deprive him of the right to manage his property.
[The Commission in Lunacy.]

NOSWELL (Mistress), a rich and eccentric Englishwoman, who was in Paris at the Hotel Lawson
about the middle of Louis Philippe's reign; after much mental debate she bought of Fritot the
shawl called Selim, which he said at first it was "impossible" for him to sell. [Gaudissart II.]

NOUASTRE (Baron de), a refugee of the purest noble blood. A ruined man, he returned to Alencon
in 1800, with his daughter, who was twenty-two years of age, and found a home with the Marquis
d'Esgrignon, and died of grief two months later. Shortly afterwards the marquis married the
orphan daughter. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

NOURRISSON (Madame), was formerly, under the Empire, attached to the service of the Prince
d'Ysembourg in Paris. The sight of the disorderly life of a "great lady" of the times decided
Madame Nourrisson's profession. She set up shop as a dealer in old clothes, and was also known
as mistress of various houses of shame. Intimate relations with Jacqueline Collin, continued
for more than twenty years, made this two-fold business profitable. The two matrons willingly
exchanged, at times, names and business signs, resources and profits. It was in the old clothes
shop, on the rue Neuve-Saint-Marc, that Frederic de Nucingen bargained for Esther van Gobseck.
Towards the end of Charles X.'s reign, one of Madame Nourrisson's establishments, on rue Saint-Barbe,
was managed by La Gonore; in the time of Louis Philippe another--a secret affair--existed at
the so-called "Pate des Italiens"; Valerie Marneffe and Wenceslas Steinbock were once caught
there together. Madame Nourrisson, first of the name, evidently continued to conduct her business
on the rue Saint-Marc, since, in 1845, she narrated the minutiae of it to Madame Mahuchet before
an audience composed of the well-known trio, Bixiou, Lora and Gazonal, and related to them
her own history, disclosing to them the secrets of her own long past beginnings in life. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Betty. The Unconscious Humorists.]

NOUVION (Comte de), a noble refugee, who had returned in utter poverty; chevalier of the Order
of Saint-Louis; lived in Paris in 1828, subsisting on the delicately disguised charity of his
friend, the Marquis d'Espard, who made him superintendent of the publication, at No. 22 rue
de la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve, of the "Picturesque History of China," and offered him a share
in the possible profits of the work. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

NOVERRE, a celebrated dancer, born in Paris 1727; died in 1807; was the rather unreliable customer
of Chevrel the draper, father-in-law and predecessor of Guillaume at the Cat and Racket. [At
the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

NUCINGEN (Baron Frederic de), born, probably at Strasbourg, about 1767. At that place he was
formerly clerk to M. d'Aldrigger, an Alsatian banker. Of better judgment than his employer,
he did not believe in the success of the Emperor in 1815 and speculated very skilfully on the
battle of Waterloo. Nucingen now carried on business alone, and on his own account, in Paris
and elsewhere; he thus prepared by degrees the famous house of the rue Saint-Lazare, and laid
the foundation of a fortune, which, under Louis Philippe, reached almost eighteen million francs.
At this period he married one of the two daughters of a rich vermicelli-maker, Mademoiselle
Delphine Goriot, by whom he had a daughter, Augusta, eventually the wife of Eugene de Rastignac.
From the first years of the Restoration may be dated the real brilliancy of his career, the
result of a combination with the Kellers, Ferdinand du Tillet, and Eugene de Rastignac in the
successful manipulation of schemes in connection with the Wortschin mines, followed by opportune
assignments and adroitly managed cases of bankruptcy. These various combinations ruined the
Ragons, the Aiglemonts, the Aldriggers, and the Beaudenords. At this time, too, Nucingen, though
clamorously declaring himself an out-and-out Bourbonist, turned a deaf ear to Cesar Birotteau's
appeals for credit, in spite of knowing of the latter's consistent Royalism. There was a time
in the baron's life when he seemed to change his nature; it was when, after giving up his hired
dancer, he madly entered upon an amour with Esther van Gobseck, alarmed his physician, Horace
Bianchon, employed Corentin, Georges, Louchard, and Peyrade, and became especially the prey
of Jacques Collin. After Esther's suicide, in May, 1830, Nuncingen abandoned "Cythera," as
Chardin des Lupeaulx had done before, and became again a man of figures, and was overwhelmed
with favors: insignia, the peerage, and the cross of grand officer of the Legion of Honor.
Nucingen, being respected and esteemed, in spite of his blunt ways and his German accent, was
a patron of Beaudenord, and a frequent guest of Cointet, the minister; he went everywhere,
and, at the mansion of Mademoiselle des Touches, heard Marsay give an account of some of his
old love-affairs; witnessed, before Daniel d'Arthez, the calumniation of Diane de Cadignan
by every one present in Madame d'Espard's parlor; guided Maxime de Trailles between the hands,
or, rather, the clutches of Claparon-Cerizet; accepted the invitation of Josepha Mirah to her
reception on the rue Ville-l'Eveque. When Wenceslas Steinbock married Hortense Hulot, Nucingen
and Cottin de Wissembourg were the bride's witnesses. Furthermore, their father, Hector Hulot
d'Ervy, borrowed of him more than a hundred thousand francs. The Baron de Nucingen acted as
sponsor to Polydore de la Baudraye when he was admitted to the French peerage. As a friend
of Ferdinand du Tillet, he was admitted on most intimate terms to the boudoir of Carabine,
and he was seen there, one evening in 1845, along with Jenny Cadine, Gazonal, Bixiou, Leon
de Lora, Massol, Claude Vignon, Trailles, F. du Bruel, Vauvinet, Marguerite Turquet, and the
Gaillards of the rue Menars. In the latter period of the Empire she contracted, greatly to
her taste, a marriage for money. Madame de Nucingen formerly had as her lover Henri de Marsay,
who finally abandoned her most cruelly. Reduced, at the time of Louis XVIII., to the society
of the Chaussee-d'Antin, she was ambitious to be admitted to the Faubourg Saint-Germain, a
circle of which her elder sister, Madame de Restaud, was a member. Eugene de Rastignac opened
to her the parlor of Madame de Beauseant, his cousin, rue de Greville, in 1819, and, at about
the same time, became her lover. Their liaison lasted more than fifteen years. An apartment
on the rue d'Artois, fitted up by Jean-Joachim Goriot, sheltered their early love. Having entrusted
to Rastignac a certain sum for play at the Palais-Royal, the baroness was able with the proceeds
to free herself of a humiliating debt to Marsay. Meanwhile she lost her father. The Nucingen
carriage, without an occupant, however, followed the hearse. [Father Goriot.] Madame de Nucingen
entertained a great deal on the rue Saint-Lazare. It was there that Auguste de Maulincour saw
Clemence Desmarets, and Adolphe des Grassins met Charles Grandet. [The Thirteen. Eugenie Grandet.]
Cesar Birotteau, on coming to beg credit of Nucingen, as also did Rodolphe Castanier, immediately
after his forgery, found themselves face to face with the baroness. [Cesar Birotteau. Melmoth
Reconciled.] At this period, Madame de Nucingen took the box at the Opera which Antoinette
de Langeais had occupied, believing undoubtedly, said Madame d'Espard, that she would inherit
her charms, wit and success. [Lost Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. The Commission
in Lunacy.] According to Diane de Cadignan, Delphine had a horrible journey when she went to
Naples by sea, of which she brought back a most painful reminder. The baroness showed a haughty
and scornful indulgence when her husband became enamored of Esther van Gobseck. [Scenes from
a Courtesan's Life.] Forgetting her origin she dreamed of seeing her daughter Augusta become
Duchesse d'Herouville; but the Herouvilles, knowing the muddy source of Nucingen's millions,
declined this alliance. [Modeste Mignon. The Firm of Nucingen.] Shortly after the year 1830,
the baroness was invited to the house of Felicite des Touches, where she saw Marsay once more,
and heard him give an account of an old love-affair. [Another Study of woman.] Delphine aided
Marie de Vandenesse and Nathan to the extent of forty thousand francs during the checkered
course of their intrigues. She remembered indeed having gone through similar experiences. [A
Daughter of Eve.] About the middle of the monarchy of July, Madame de Nucingen, as mother-in-law
of Eugene de Rastignac, visited Madame d'Espard and met Maxime de Trailles and Ferdinand du
Tillet in the Faubourg Saint-Germain. [The Member for Arcis.]

NUEIL (De), proprietor of the domain of the Manervilles, which, doubtless, descended to the
younger son, Gaston. [The Deserted Woman.]

NUEIL (Madame de), wife of the preceding, survived her husband, and her eldest son, became
the dowager Comtesse de Nueil, and afterwards owned the domain of Manerville, to which she
withdrew in retirement. She was the type of the scheming mother, careful and correct, but worldly.
She matched off Gaston, and was thereby involuntarily the cause of his death. [The Deserted Woman.]

NUEIL (De), eldest son of the preceding, died of consumption in the reign of Louis XVIII.,
leaving the title of Comte de Nueil to his younger brother, Baron Gaston. [The Deserted Woman.]

NUEIL (Gaston de), son of the Nueils and brother of the preceding, born about 1799, of good
extraction and with fortune suitable to his rank. He went, in 1822, to Bayeux, where he had
family connections, in order to recuperate from the wearing fatigues of Parisian life; had
an opportunity to force open the closed door of Claire de Beauseant, who had been living in
retirement in that vicinity ever since the marriage of Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto to Berthe de Rochefide;
he fell in love with her, his love was reciprocated, and for nearly ten years he lived with
her as her husband in Normandie and Switzerland. Albert Savarus, in his autobiographical novel,
"L'Ambitieux par Amour," made a vague reference to them as living together on the shore of
Lake Geneva. After the Revolution of 1830, Gaston de Nueil, already rich from his Norman estates
that afforded an income of eighteen thousand francs, married Mademoiselle Stephanie de la Rodiere.
Wearying of the marriage tie, he wished to renew his former relations with Madame de Beauseant.
Exasperated by the haughty repulse at the hands of his former mistress, Nueil killed himself.
[The Deserted Woman. Albert Savarus.]

NUEIL (Madame Gaston de), born Stephanie de la Rodiere, about 1812, a very insignificant character,
married, at the beginning of Louis Philippe's reign, Gaston de Nueil, to whom she brought an
income of forty thousand francs a year. She was enceinte after the first month of her marriage.
Having become Countess de Nueil, by succession, upon the death of her brother-in-law, and being
deserted by Gaston, she continued to live in Normandie. Madame Gaston de Nueil survived her
husband. [The Deserted Woman.]

                                  O

O'FLAHARTY (Major), maternal uncle of Raphael de Valentin, to whom he bequeathed ten millions
upon his death in Calcutta, August, 1828. [The Magic Skin.]

OIGNARD, in 1806 was chief clerk to Maitre Bordin, a Parisian lawyer. [A Start in Life.]

OLGA, daughter of the Topinards, born in 1840. She was not a legitimate child, as her parents
were not married at the time when Schmucke saw her with them in 1846. He loved her for the
beauty of her light Teutonic hair. [Cousin Pons.]

OLIVET, an Angouleme lawyer, succeeded by Petit-Claude. [Lost Illusions.]

OLIVIER was in the service of the policeman, Corentin and Peyrade, when they found the Hauteserres
and the Simeuses with the Cinq-Cygne family in 1803. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

OLIVIER (Monsieur and Madame), first in the employ of Charles X. as outrider and laundress;
had charge of three children, of whom the eldest became an under notary's clerk; were finally,
under Louis Philippe, servants of the Marneffes and of Mademoiselle Fischer, to whom, through
craftiness or gratitude, they devoted themselves exclusively. [Cousin Betty.]

ORFANO (Duc d'), title of Marechal Cottin.

ORGEMONT (D'), wealthy and avaricious banker, proprietor at Fougeres, bought the Abbaye de
Juvigny's estate. He remained neutral during the Chouan insurrection of 1799 and came into
contact with Coupiau, Galope-Chopine, and Mesdames du Gua-Saint-Cyr and de Montauran. [The
Chouans.]

ORGEMONT (D'), brother of the preceding, a Breton priest who took the oath of allegiance. He
died in 1795 and was buried in a secluded spot, discovered and preserved by M. d'Orgemont,
the banker, as a place of hiding from the fury of the Vendeans. [The Chouans.]

ORIGET, famous Tours physician; known to the Mortsaufs, chatelains of Clochegourde. [The Lily
of the Valley.]

ORSONVAL (Madame d'), frequently visited the Cruchot and Grandet families at Saumur. [Eugenie
Grandet.]

OSSIAN, valet in the service of Mougin, the well-known hair-dresser on the Place de la Bourse,
in 1845. Ossian's duty was to show the patrons out, and in this capacity he attended Bixiou,
Lora and Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

OTTOBONI, an Italian conspirator who hid in Paris. In 1831, on dining at the Giardinis on rue
Froidmanteau, he became acquainted with the Gambaras. [Gambara.]

                                  P

PACCARD, released convict, in Jacques Collin's clutches, well known as a thief and drunkard.
He was Prudence Servien's lover, and both were employed by Esther van Gobseck at the same time,
Paccard being a footman; lived with a carriage-maker on rue de Provence, in 1829. After stealing
seven hundred and fifty thousand francs, which had been left by Esther van Gobseck, he was
obliged to give up seven hundred and thirty thousand of them. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

PACCARD (Mademoiselle), sister of the preceding, in the power of Jacqueline Collin. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.]

PALMA, Parisian banker of the Poissoniere suburbs; had, during the regime of the Restoration
and of July, great fame as a financier. He was "private counsel for the Keller establishment."
Birotteau, the perfumer, at the time of his financial troubles, vainly asked him for help.
[The Firm of Nucingen. Cesar Birotteau.] With Werbrust as a partner he dealt in discounts as
shrewdly as did Gobseck and Bidault, and thus was in a position to help Lucien de Rubempre.
[Gobseck. Lost Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] He was also M. Werbrust's associate
in the muslin, calico and oil-cloth establishment at No. 5 rue du Sentier, when Maximilien
was so friendly with the Fontaines. [The Ball at Sceaux.]

PAMIERS (Vidame de), "oracle of Faubourg Saint-Germain at the time of the Restoration," a member
of the family council dealing with Antoinette de Langeais, who was accused of compromising
herself with Montriveau. Past-commander of the Order of Malta, prominent in both the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, old and confidential friend of the Baronne de Maulincour. Pamiers
reared the young Baron Auguste de Maulincour, defending him with all his power against Bourignard's
hatred. [The Thirteen.] As a former intimate friend of the Marquis d'Esgrignon, the vidame
introduced the Vicomte d'Esgrignon--Victurnien --to Diane de Maufrigneuse. An intimate friendship
between the young man and the future Princess de Cadignan was the result. [Jealousies of a
Country Town.]

PANNIER, merchant and banker after 1794; treasurer of the "brigands"; connected with the uprising
of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne in 1809. Having been condemned to twenty years of hard labor,
Pannier was branded and placed in the galleys. Appointed lieutenant-general under Louis XVIII.,
he governed a royal castle. He died without children. [The Seamy Side of History.]

PARADIS, born in 1830; Maxime de Trailles' servant-boy or "tiger"; quick and bold; made a tour,
during the election period in the spring of 1839, through the Arcis-sur-Aube district, with
his master, meeting Goulard, the sub-prefect, Poupart, the tavern-keeper, and the Maufrigneuses
and Mollots of Cinq-Cygne. [The Member for Arcis.]

PARQUOI (Francois), one of the Chouans, for whom Abbe Gudin held a funeral mass in the heart
of the forest, not far from Fougeres, in the autumn of 1799. Francois Parquoi died, as did
Nicolas Laferte, Joseph Brouet and Sulpice Coupiau, of injuries received at the battle of La
Pelerine and at the siege of Fougeres. [The Chouans.]

PASCAL, porter of the Thuilliers in the Place de la Madeleine house; acted also as beadle at
La Madeleine church. [The Middle Classes.]

PASCAL (Abbe), chaplain at Limoges prison in 1829; gentle old man. He tried vainly to obtain
a confession from Jean-Francois Tascheron, who had been imprisoned for robbery followed by
murder. [The Country Parson.]

PASTELOT, priest in 1845, in the Saint-Francois church in the Marais, on the street now called
rue Charlot; watched over the dead body of Sylvain Pons. [Cousin Pons.]

PASTUREAU (Jean Francois), in 1829, owner of an estate in Isere, the value of which was said
to have been impaired by the passing by of Doctor Benassis' patients. [The Country Doctor.]

PATRAT (Maitre), notary at Fougeres in 1799, an acquaintance of D'Orgemont, the banker, and
introduced to Marie de Verneuil by the old miser. [The Chouans.]

PATRIOTE, a monkey, which Marie de Verneuil, its owner, had taught to counterfeit Danton. The
craftiness of this animal reminded Marie of Corentin. [The Chouans.]

PAULINE, for a long time Julie d'Aiglemont's waiting-maid. [A Woman of Thirty.]

PAULMIER, employed under the Restoration in the Ministry of Finance in Isidore Baudoyer's bureau
of Flamet de la Billardiere's division. Paulmier was a bachelor, but quarreled continually
with his married colleague, Chazelles. [The Government Clerks.]

PAZ (Thaddee), Polish descendant of a distinguished Florentine family, the Pazzi, one of whose
members had become a refugee in Poland. Living contemporaneously with his fellow-citizen and
friend, the Comte Adam Mitgislas Laginski, like him Thaddee Paz fought for his country, later
on following him into exile in Paris, during the reign of Louis Philippe. Bearing up bravely
in his poverty, he was willing to become steward to the count, and he made an able manager
of the Laginski mansion. He gave up this position, when, having become enamored of Clementine
Laginska, he saw that he could no longer control his passion by means of a pretended mistress,
Marguerite Turquet, the horsewoman. Paz (pronounced Pac), who had willingly assumed the title
of captain, had seen the Steinbocks married. His departure from France was only feigned, and
he once more saw the Comtesse Laginska, during the winter of 1842. At Rusticoli he took her
away from La Palferine, who was on the point of carrying her away. [The Imaginary Mistress.
Cousin Betty.]

PECHINA (La), nick-name of Genevieve Niseron.

PEDEROTTI (Signor), father of Madame Maurice de l'Hostal. He was a Genoa banker; gave his only
daughter a dowry of a million; married her to the French consul, and left her, on dying six
months later in January, 1831, a fortune made in grain and amounting to two millions. Pederotti
had been made count by the King of Sardinia, but, as he left no male heir, the title became
extinct. [Honorine.]

PELLETIER, one of Benassis' patients in Isere, who died in 1829, was buried on the same day
as the last "cretin," which had been kept on account of popular superstition. Pelletier left
a wife, who saw Genestas, and several children, of whom the eldest, Jacques, was born about
1807. [The Country Doctor.]

PEN-HOEL (Jacqueline de), of a very old Breton family, lived at Guerande, where she was born
about 1780. Sister-in-law of the Kergarouets of Nantes, the patrons of Major Brigaut, who,
despite the displeasure of the people, did not themselves hesitate to assume the name of Pen-Hoel.
Jacqueline protected the daughters of her younger sister, the Vicomtesse de Kergarouet. She
was especially attracted to her eldest niece, Charlotte, to whom she intended to give a dowry,
as she desired the girl to marry Calyste du Guenic, who was in love with Felicite des Touches.
[Beatrix.]

PEROUX (Abbe), brother of Madame Julliard; vicar of Provins during the Restoration. [Pierrette.]

PERRACHE, small hunchback, shoemaker by trade, and, in 1840, porter in a house belonging to
Corentin on rue Honore-Chevalier, Paris. [The Middle Classes.]

PERRACHE (Madame), wife of the preceding, often visited Madame Cardinal, niece of Toupillier,
one of Corentin's renters. [The Middle Classes.]

PERRET, with his partner, Grosstete, preceded Pierre Graslin in a banking-house at Limoges,
in the early part of the nineteenth century. [The Country Parson.]

PERRET (Madame), wife of the preceding, an old woman in 1829, disturbed herself, as did every
one in Limoges, over the assassination committed by Jean-Francois Tascheron. [The Country Parson.]

PERROTET, in 1819, laborer on Felix Grandet's farm in the suburbs of Saumur. [Eugenie Grandet.]

PETIT-CLAUD, son of a very poor tailor of L'Houmeau, a suburb of Angouleme, where he pursued
his studies in the town lyceum, becoming acquainted at the same time with Lucien de Rubempre.
He studied law at Poitiers. On going back to the chief city of La Charente, he became clerk
to Maitre Olivet, an attorney whom he succeeded. Now began Petit-Claud's period of revenge
for the insults which his poverty and homeliness had brought on. He met Cointet, the printer,
and went into his employ, although at the same time he feigned allegiance to the younger Sechard,
also a printer. This conduct paved the way for his accession to the magistracy. He was in turn
deputy and king's procureur. Petit-Claud did not leave Angouleme, but made a profitable marriage
in 1822 with Mademoiselle Francoise de la Haye, natural daughter of Francis du Hautoy and of
Madame de Senonches. Madame Petit-Claud, though insignificant and forward, was provided with
a very substantial dowry. [Lost Illusions.]

PEYRADE, born about 1758 in Provence, Comtat, in a large family of poor people who eked out
a scant subsistence on a small estate called Canquoelle. Peyrade, paternal uncle of Theodose
de la Peyrade, was of noble birth, but kept the fact secret. He went from Avignon to Paris
in 1776, where he entered the police force two years later. Lenoir thought well of him. Peyrade's
success in life was impaired only by his immoralities; otherwise it would have been much more
brilliant and lasting. He had a genius for spying, also much executive ability. Fouche employed
him and Corentin in connection with the affair of Gondreville's imaginary abduction. A kind
of police ministry was given to him in Holland. Louis XVIII. counseled with him and gave him
employment, but Charles X. held aloof from this shrewd employe. Peyrade lived in poverty on
rue des Moineaux with an adored daughter, Lydie, the child of La Beaumesnil of the Comedie-Francaise.
Certain events brought him into the notice of Nucingen, who employed him in the search for
Esther Gobseck, at the same time warning him against the courtesan's followers. The police
department, having been told of this arrangement by the so-called Abbe Carlos Herrera, would
not permit him to enter into the employ of a private individual. Despite the protection of
his friend, Corentin, and the talent as a policeman, which he had shown under the assumed names
of Canquoelle and Saint-Germain, especially in connection with F. Gaudissart's seizure, Peyrade
failed in his struggle with Jacques Collin. His excellent transformation into a nabob defender
of Madame Theodore Gaillard made the former convict so angry that, during the last years of
the Restoration, he took revenge on him by making away with him. Peyrade's daughter was abducted
and he died from the effects of poison. [The Gondreville Mystery. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

PEYRADE (Lydie).[*] (See La Peyrade, Madame Theodose de.)

[*] Under the title of "Lydie" a portion of the life of Peyrade's
    daughter was used in a play presented at the Theatre des Nations,
    now Theatre de Paris, but the author did not publish his play.

PHELLION, born in 1780, husband of a La Perche woman, who bore him three children, two of whom
were sons, Felix and Marie-Theodore, and one a daughter, who became Madame Burniol; clerk in
the Ministry of Finance, Xavier Rabourdin's bureau, division of Flamet de la Billardiere, a
position which he held until the close of 1824. He upheld Rabourdin, who, in turn, often defended
him. While living on rue du Faubourg-Saint-Jacques near the Sourds-Muets, he taught history,
literature and elementary ethics to the students of Mesdemoiselles La Grave. The Revolution
of July did not affect him; even his retirement from service did not cause him to give up the
home in which he remained for at least thirty years. He bought for eighteen thousand francs
a small house on Feuillantines lane, now rue des Feuillantines, which he occupied, after he
had improved it, in a serious Bourgeois manner. Phellion was a major in the National Guard.
For the most part he still had the same friends, meeting and visiting frequently Baudoyer,
Dutocq, Fleury, Godard, Laudigeois, Rabourdin, Madame Poiret the elder, and especially the
Colleville, Thuillier and Minard families. His leisure time was occupied with politics and
art. At the Odeon he was on a committee of classical reading. His political influence and vote
were sought by Theodose de la Peyrade in the interest of Jerome Thuillier's candidacy for the
General Council; for Phellion favored another candidate, Horace Bianchon, relative of the highly-honored
J.-J. Popinot. [The Government Clerks. The Middle Classes.]

PHELLION (Madame), wife of the preceding; belonged to a family who lived in a western province.
Her family being so large that the income of more than nine thousand francs, pension and rentals,
was insufficient, she continued, under Louis Philippe, to give lessons in harmony to Mesdemoiselles
La Grave, as in the Restoration, with the strictness observed in her every-day life.

PHELLION (Felix), eldest son of the preceding couple, born in 1817; professor of mathematics
in a Royal college at Paris, then a member of the Academy of Sciences, and chevalier of the
Legion of Honor. By his remarkable works and his discovery of a star, he was thus made famous
before he was twenty-five years old, and married, after this fame had come to him, Celeste-Louise-Caroline-Brigette
Colleville, the sister of one of his pupils and a woman for whom his love was so strong that
he gave up Voltairism for Catholicism. [The Middle Classes.]

PHELLION (Madame Felix), wife of the preceding; born Celeste-Louise-Caroline-Brigitte Colleville.
Although M. and Madame Colleville's daughter, she was reared almost entirely by the Thuilliers.
Indeed, M. L.-J. Thuillier, who had been one of Madame Flavie Colleville's lovers, passed for
Celeste's father. M., Madame and Mademoiselle Thuillier were all determined to give her their
Christian names and to make up a large dowry for her. Olivier Vinet, Godeschal, Theodose de
la Peyrade, all wished to marry Mademoiselle Colleville. Nevertheless, although she was a devoted
Christian, she loved Felix Phellion, the Voltairean, and married him after his conversion to
Catholicism. [The Middle Classes.]

PHELLION (Marie-Theodore), Felix Phellion's younger brother, in 1840 pupil at the Ecole des
Ponts et Chaussees. [The Middle Classes.]

PHILIPPART (Messieurs), owners of a porcelain manufactory at Limoges, in which was employed
Jean-Francois Tascheron, the murderer of Pingret and Jeanne Malassis. [The Country Parson.]

PHILIPPE, employed in Madame Marie Gaston's family; formerly an attendant of the Princesse
de Vauremont; later became the Duc Henri de Chaulieu's servant; finally entered Marie Gaston's
household, where he was employed after his wife's decease. [Letters of Two Brides. The Member
for Arcis.]

PICHARD (Mademoiselle), house-keeper of Niseron, vicar of Blangy in Bourgogne. Prior to 1789
she brought her niece, Mademoiselle Arsene Pichard, to his house. [The Peasantry.]

PICHARD (Arsene), niece of the preceding. (See Rigou, Madame Gregoire.) [The Peasantry.]

PICOT (Nepomucene), astronomer and mathematician, friend of Biot after 1807, author of a "Treatise
on Differential Logarithms," and especially of a "Theory of Perpetual Motion," four volumes,
quarto, with engravings, Paris, 1825; lived, in 1840, No. 9 rue du Val-de-Grace. Being very
near-sighted and erratic, the prey of his thieving servant, Madame Lambert, his family thought
that he needed a protector. Being instructor of Felix Phellion, with whom he took a trip to
England, Picot made known his pupil's great ability, which the boy had modestly kept secret,
at the home of the Thuilliers, Place de la Madeleine, before an audience composed of the Collevilles,
Minards and Phellions. Celeste Colleville's future was thus determined. As Picot was decorated
late in life, his marriage to a wealthy and eccentric Englishwoman of forty was correspondingly
late. After passing through a successful operation for a cancer, he returned "a new man," to
the home of the Thuilliers. He was led through gratitude to leave to the Felix Phellions the
wealth brought him by Madame Picot. [The Middle Classes.]

PICQUOISEAU (Comtesse), widow of a colonel. She and Madame de Vaumerland boarded with one of
Madame Vauquer's rivals, according to Madame de l'Ambermesnil. [Father Goriot.]

PIUS VII. (Barnabas Chiaramonti), lived from 1740 till 1823; pope. Having been asked by letter
in 1806, if a woman might go decollete to the ball or to the theatre, without endangering her
welfare, he answered his correspondent, Madame Angelique de Granville, in a manner befitting
the gentle Fenelon. [A Second Home.]

PIEDEFER (Abraham), descendant of a middle class Calvinist family of Sancerre, whose ancestors
in the sixteenth century were skilled workmen, and subsequently woolen-drapers; failed in business
during the reign of Louis XVI.; died about 1786, leaving two sons, Moise and Silas, in poverty.
[The Muse of the Department.]

PIEDEFER (Moise), elder son of the preceding, profited by the Revolution in imitating his forefathers;
tore down abbeys and churches; married the only daughter of a Convention member who had been
guillotined, and by her had a child, Dinah, later Madame Milaud de la Baudraye; compromised
his fortune by his agricultural speculations; died in 1819. [The Muse of the Department.]

PIEDEFER (Silas), son of Abraham Piedefer, and younger brother of the preceding; did not receive,
as did Moise Piedefer, his part of the small paternal fortune; went to the Indies; died, about
1837, in New York, with a fortune of twelve hundred thousand francs. This money was inherited
by his niece, Madame de la Baudraye, but was seized by her husband. [The Muse of the Department.]

PIEDEFER (Madame Moise), sister-in-law of the preceding, unaffable and excessively pious; pensioned
by her son-in-law; lived successively in Sancerre and at Paris with her daughter, Madame de
la Baudraye, whom she managed to separate from Etienne Lousteau. [The Muse of the Department.]

PIERQUIN, born about 1786, successor to his father as notary in Douai; distant cousin of the
Molina-Claes of rue de Paris, through the Pierquins of Antwerp; self-interested and positive
by nature; aspired to the hand of Marguerite Claes, eldest daughter of Balthazar, who afterwards
became Madame Emmanuel de Solis; finally married Felicie, a younger sister of his first choice,
in the second year of Charles X.'s reign. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

PIERQUIN (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Felicie Claes, found, as a young girl, a second
mother in her elder sister, Marguerite. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

PIERQUIN, brother-in-law of the preceding; physician who attended the Claes at Douai. [The
Quest of the Absolute.]

PIERROT, assumed name of Charles-Amedee-Louis-Joseph Rifoel, Chevalier du Vissard. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

PIERROTIN, born in 1781. After having served in the cavalry, he left the service in 1815 to
succeed his father as manager of a stage-line between Paris and Isle-Adam--an undertaking which,
though only moderately successful, finally flourished. One morning in the autumn of 1822, he
received as passengers, at the Lion d'Argent, some people, either famous or of rising fame,
the Comte Hugret de Serizy, Leon de Lora and Joseph Bridau, and took them to Presles, a place
near Beaumont. Having become "coach-proprietor of Oise," in 1838 he married his daughter, Georgette,
to Oscar Husson, a high officer, who, upon retiring, had been appointed to a collectorship
in Beaumont, and who, like the Canalises and the Moreaus, had for a long time been one of Pierrotin's
customers. [A Start in Life.]

PEITRO, Corsican servant of the Bartolomeo di Piombos, kinsmen of Madame Luigi Porta. [The
Vendetta.]

PIGEAU, during the Restoration, at one time head-carrier and afterwards owner of a small house,
which he had built with his own hands and on a very economical basis, at Nanterre (between
Paris and Saint-Germain-in-Laye). [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

PIGEAU (Madame), wife of the preceding; belonged to a family of wine merchants. After her husband's
death, about the end of the Restoration, she inherited a little property, which caused her
much unhappiness, in consequence of her avarice and distrust. Madame Pigeau was planning to
remove from Nanterre to Saint-Germain with a view to living there on her annuity, when she
was murdered with her servant and her dogs, by Theodore Calvi, in the winter of 1828-29. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.]

PIGERON, of Auxerre, was murdered, it is said, by his wife; be that as it may, the autopsy,
entrusted to Vermut, a druggist of Soulanges, in Bourgogne, proved the use of poison. [The
Peasantry.]

PIGOULT, was head clerk in the office where Malin de Gondreville and Grevin studied pettifogging;
was, about 1806, first justice of the peace at Arcis, and then president of the tribunal of
the same town, at the time of the lawsuit in connection with the abduction of Malin, when he
and Grevin were the prosecuting attorneys. [The Gondreville Mystery.] In the neighborhood of
1839, Pigoult was still living, having his home in the ward. At that time he made public recognition
of Pantaleon, Marquis de Sallenauve, and supposed father of Charles Dorlange, Comte de Sallenauve,
thus serving the interests, or rather the ambitions, of deputy. [The Member for Arcis.]

PIGOULT, son of the preceding, acquired the hat manufactory of Phileas Beauvisage, made a failure
of the undertaking, and committed suicide; but appeared to have had a natural, though sudden,
death. [The Member for Arcis.]

PIGOULT (Achille), son of the preceding and grandson of the next preceding, born in 1801. A
man of unattractive personality, but of great intelligence, he supplanted Grevin, and, in 1819,
was the busiest notary of Arcis. Gondreville's influence, and his intimacy with Beauvisage
and Giguet, were the causes of his taking a prominent part in the political contests of that
period; he opposed Simon Giguet's candidacy, and successfully supported the Comte de Sallenauve.
The introduction of the Marquis Pantaleon de Sallenauve to old Pigoult was brought about through
Achille Pigoult, and assured a triumph for the sculptor, Sallenauve-Dorlange. [The Member for
Arcis.]

PILLERAULT (Claude-Joseph), a very upright Parisian trader, proprietor of the Cloche d'Or,
a hardware establishment on the Quai de la Ferraille; made a modest fortune, and retired from
business in 1814. After losing, one after another, his wife, his son, and an adopted child,
Pillerault devoted his life to his niece, Constance-Barbe-Josephine, of whom he was guardian
and only relative. Pillerault lived on the rue des Bourdonnais, in 1818, occupying a small
apartment let to him by Camusot of the Cocon d'Or. During that period, Pillerault was remarkable
for the intelligence, energy and courage displayed in connection with the unfortunate Birotteaus,
who were falling into bad repute. He found out Claparon, and terrified Molineux, both enemies
of the Birotteaus. Politics and the Cafe David, situated between the rue de la Monnaie and
the rue Saint-Honore, consumed the leisure hours of Pillerault, who was a stoical and staunch
Republican; he was exceedingly considerate of Madame Vaillant, his house-keeper, and treated
Manuel, Foy, Perier, Lafayette and Courier as gods. [Cesar Birotteau.] Pillerault lived to
a very advanced age. The Anselme Popinots, his grand-nephew and grand-niece, paid him a visit
in 1844. Poulain cured the old man of an illness when he was more than eighty years of age;
he then owned an establishment (rue de Normandie, in the Marais), managed by the Cibots, and
counting among its occupants the Chapoulot family, Schmucke and Sylvain Pons. [Cousin Pons.]

PILLERAULT (Constance-Barbe-Josephine). (See Birotteau, Madame Cesar.)

PIMENTEL (Marquis and Marquise de), enjoyed extended influence during the Restoration, not
only with the society element of Paris, but especially in the department of Charente, where
they spent their summers. They were reputed to be the wealthiest land-owners around Angouleme,
were on intimate terms with their peers, the Rastignacs, together with whom they composed the
shining lights of the Bargeton circle. [Lost Illusions.]

PINAUD (Jacques), a "poor linen-merchant," the name under which M. d'Orgemont, a wealthy broker
of Fougeres, tried to conceal his identity from the Chouans, in 1799, to avoid being a victim
of their robbery. [The Chouans.]

PINGRET, uncle of Monsieur and Madame des Vauneaulx; a miser, who lived in an isolated house
in the Faubourg Saint-Etienne, near Limoges; robbed and murdered, with his servant Jeanne Malassis,
one night in March, 1829, by Jean-Francois Tascheron. [The Country Parson.]

PINSON, long a famous Parisian restaurant-keeper of the rue de l'Ancienne-Comedie, at whose
establishment Theodose de la Peyrade, reduced, in the time of Louis Philippe, to the uttermost
depths of poverty, dined, at the expense of Cerizet and Dutocq, at a cost of forty-seven francs;
there also these three men concluded a compact to further their mutual interests. [The Middle
Classes.]

PIOMBO (Baron Bartolomeo di), born in 1738, a fellow-countryman and friend of Napoleon Bonaparte,
whose mother he had protected during the Corsican troubles. After a terrible vendetta, carried
out in Corsica against all the Portas except one, he had to leave his country, and went in
great poverty to Paris with his family. Through the intercession of Lucien Bonaparte, he saw
the First Consul (October, 1800) and obtained property, titles and employment. Piombo was not
without gratitude; the friend of Daru, Drouot, and Carnot, he gave evidence of devotion to
his benefactor until the latter's death. The return of the Bourbons did not deprive him entirely
of the resources that he had acquired. For his Corsican property Bartolomeo received of Madame
Letitia Bonaparte a sum which allowed him to purchase and occupy the Portenduere mansion. The
marriage of his adored daughter, Ginevra, who, against her father's will, became the wife of
the last of the Portas, was a source of vexation and grief to Piombo, that nothing could diminish.
[The Vendetta.]

PIOMBO (Baronne Elisa di), born in 1745, wife of the preceding and mother of Madame Porta,
was unable to obtain from Bartolomeo the pardon of Ginevra, whom he would not see after her
marriage. [The Vendetta.]

PIOMBO (Ginevra di). (See Porta, Madame Luigi.)

PIOMBO (Gregorio di), brother of the preceding, and son of Bartolomeo and Elisa di Piombo;
died in his infancy, a victim of the Portas, in the vendetta against the Piombos. [The Vendetta.]

PIQUETARD (Agathe). (See Hulot d'Ervy, Baronne Hector.)

PIQUOIZEAU, porter of Frederic de Nucingen, when Rodolphe Castanier was cashier at the baron's
bank. [Melmoth Reconciled.]

PLAISIR, an "illustrious hair-dresser" of Paris; in September, 1816, on the rue Taitbout, he
waited on Caroline Crochard de Bellefeuille, at that time mistress of the Comte de Granville.
[A Second Home.]

PLANCHETTE, an eminent professor of mechanics, consulted by Raphael de Valentin on the subject
of the wonderful piece of shagreen that the young man had in his possession; he took him to
Spieghalter, the mechanician, and to Baron Japhet, the chemist, who tried in vain to stretch
this skin. The failure of science in this effort was a cause of amazement to Planchette and
Japhet. "They were like Christians come from the tomb without finding a God in heaven." Planchette
was a tall, thin man, and a sort of poet always in deep contemplation. [The Magic Skin.]

PLANTIN, a Parisian publicist, was, in 1834, editor of a review, and aspired to the position
of master of requests in the Council of State, when Blondet recommended him to Raoul Nathan,
who was starting a great newspaper. [A Daughter of Eve.]

PLISSOUD, like Brunet, court-crier at Soulanges (Bourgogne), and afterwards Brunet's unfortunate
competitor. He belonged, during the Restoration, to the "second" society of his village, witnessed
his exclusion from the "first" by reason of the misconduct of his wife, who was born Euphemie
Wattebled. Being a gambler and a drinker, Plissoud did not save any money; for, though he was
appointed to many offices, they were all lacking in lucrativeness; he was insurance agent,
as well as agent for a society that insured against the chances for conscription. Being an
enemy of Soudry's party, Maitre Plissoud might readily have served, especially for pecuniary
considerations, the interests of Montcornet, proprietor at Aigues. [The Peasantry.]

PLISSOUD (Madame Euphemie), wife of the preceding and daughter of Wattebled; ruled the "second"
society of Soulanges, as Madame Soudry did the first, and though married to Plissoud, lived
with Lupin as if she were his wife. [The Peasantry.]

POIDEVIN, was, in the month of November, 1806, second clerk of Maitre Bordin, a Paris attorney.
[A Start in Life.]

POINCET, an old and unfortunate public scribe, and interpreter at the Palais de Justice of
Paris; about 1815, he went with Christemio to see Henri de Marsay, in order to translate the
words of the messenger of Paquita Valdes. [The Thirteen.]

POIREL (Abbe), a priest of Tours; advanced to the canonry at the time that Monsieur Troubert
and Mademoiselle Gamard persecuted Abbe Francois Birotteau. [The Vicar of Tours.]

