No. 2.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10. 1849. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FEW WORDS TO OUR FRIENDS.

In our opening Address we carefully avoided any thing at all approaching to a boast of what
we would, or even what we hoped to perform. We stated that "we would rather give a specimen
than a description." We are now in like manner unwilling to point as exultingly, as we think
we might, to the position which we have already taken. But there is a vast difference between
vain boasting and the expression of an honest satisfaction; and it would be worse than an affectation
of humility--it would be a mean hypocrisy--if we did not express heartily and unreservedly
the gratitude we owe and feel to those who have encouraged us by their friendly advice and
able pens. We have opened a Literary Exchange, and we have had the gratification to see that
men whose learning and talents the public recognise--leaders in their several branches of inquiry--have
at once taken advantage of it. They have proved the necessity for some such medium of communication,
as well as their good-will to the one now offered to them, by a gathering in its behalf which
the public will respect, and of which we may well feel proud.

Some whose good opinion we most value, and who have spoken most warmly in favour of our plan,
have proved the sincerity of their praise by suggestions of improvement in its detail, and
hints for its further extension. They may feel assured that such hints and such suggestions
shall not be lost sight of. For instance, one respected correspondent hints that as we have
very properly adopted Dr. Maitland's suggestion with regard to Herbert's edition of Ame's Typographical
Antiquities, namely, that of "offering a receptacle for illustrations, additions, and corrections,"
and invited "our readers to take advantage of our columns to carry out Dr. Maitland's suggestions,"
we should open our columns with equal readiness to the correction and illustration of more
modern and more popular works. We entirely concur with him; but in reference to this subject
there is a distinction which must be borne in mind. Our own literature, like that of every
other country, consists of two classes of books. We have the books of pretenders to knowledge,
the hasty, crude, imperfect, but often for the time attractive and popular volumes of the Ned
Purdons of the day. These books have a use--such as it is--and thus answer their purpose; but
it would be for the credit of our literature, and save a world of trouble, if they were forgotten
as soon as they had done so. To illustrate such books, to add to their information or correct
their blunders, would be useless and almost ridiculous. They should be left to die of mere
powerlessness and exhaustion, or to wither under the wholesome influence of a just and manly
criticism.

But there are books of another kind--books {18} which our worthy bibliopoles designate as "standard
works." These are the books of competent workmen--books which are the result of honest labour
and research, and which from the moment of their publication assume a permanent station in
our national literature. Even in such books there are many things incomplete, many things erroneous.
But it is the interest of every man that such books should be rendered as complete as possible;
and whatever tends to illustrate or correct works of that class will be sure of insertion in
our columns.

We would point to Macaulay's England, and Hallam's Introduction to the Literary History of
the 15th, 16th, and 17th Centuries, his Middle Ages, and his Constitutional History, and we
may add, as illustrations of a different kind, The Annals of the Stage of our excellent friend
Mr. Collier, and The Handbook of London of our valued contributor Mr. Peter Cunningham, as
examples of the sort of publications to which we allude. Such were the books we had in our
mind, when we spoke in our Prospectus of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" becoming, through the inter-communication
of our literary friends, "a most useful supplement to works already in existence--a treasury
towards enriching future editions of them."

Another correspondent--a bibliographical friend--suggests that, for various reasons, which
bibliographers will appreciate, our Prospectus should have a place in the body of our work.
We believe that many of our readers concur in a wish for its preservation, and it will therefore
be found in the Number now before them.

One suggestion again urges us to look carefully to Foreign Literature, and another points out
the propriety of our making our paper as British as possible, so that our topographical facts
should, as far as practicable, be restricted to the illustration of British counties, and our
biographical ones to such as should contribute towards a Biographia Brittanica.

All these, and many other expressions of sympathy and promises of support, poured in upon us
within a few hours after our birth. No one of them shall be forgotten; and if for a time our
pages seem to indicate that we have made a QUERY as to the adoption of any suggestion, let
our kind contributors be assured that there is no hint which reaches us, whether at present
practicable or not, that we do not seriously and thankfully "make a NOTE of."

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP AYLMER'S LETTER, AND THE POEM ON THE ARMADA.

As I am in a condition to answer the inquiry of your "Hearty Well-wisher," on p. 12 of your
last Number of "NOTES AND QUERIES," I proceed to give him the information he asks. I shall
be happy if what follows is of any use to your correspondent, taking it for granted that he
is as zealous for your success as his signature indicates.

The "foolish rhyme," to which the attention of the Bishop of London had been directed by Lord
Burghley, has the subsequent doggrel title:--

  "A Skeltonicall Salvtation,
  Or condigne gratvlation,
  And iust vexation
  Of the Spanishe nation,
  That in a bravado
  Spent many a crvsado,
  In setting forth an armado
  England to invado."

This is as the title stands in the Oxford impression (of which I never saw more than one copy,
because, we may presume, it was suppressed by the authorities of the University), and the following
is the imprint at the bottom of it:--"Printed at Oxford by Ioseph Barnes, and are to bee sold
in Paules Churchyard, at the signe of the Tygres head, 1589."

There exists several exemplars of the London edition--"Imprinted at London for Toby Cooke,
1589,"--the title-page of which, as well as the rest of the poem, differs only literally from
that of Oxford, excepting that to the latter is appended a Latin version, also in rhyme, and
in close imitation of the English. I subjoin a brief specimen of it:-- {19}

  "Qui regis Hispanos,
  Superbos et vanos,
  Crudeles et insanos,
  Multùm aberrasti,
  Cùm tuos animasti,
  Et bellum inchoasti
  Contra Anglos animosos,
  Fortes et bellicosos,
  Nobiles et generosos.
  Qui te excitavit
  Proculdubio deliravit
  Et te fascinavit," &c.

The whole production consists only of ten leaves, 4to., and the Latin portion, which has the
subsequent separate title-page, occupies four of them:--

                  "AD REGEM
                   HISPANVM.
  Cum tua non fuerint heroica facta, Philippe,
  Risu digna cano carmine ridiculo."

I shall not here introduce any part of the English version, because one or two long quotations
will be found in the introductory portion of the Rev. A. Dyce's excellent edition of Skelton's
Works (2 vols. 8vo. 1843). Respecting the Latin portion I have been more particular, because
the learned editor was not aware that the production had come from the press of Barnes of Oxford,
nor that a Latin version was appended to it.

I may take the liberty of adding here a mention of Skelton which escaped notice, and which
is from one of the tracts against Thomas Nash, produced by Gabriel Harvey, the friend of Spenser.
He couples Skelton and Scoggin together, in no very respectful manner, and completes the triumvirate
by Nash, whom he here calls Signor Capriccio:--"And what riott so pestiferous as that which
in sugred baites presenteth most poisonous hookes? Sir Skelton and Master Scoggin were but
innocents to Signior Capricio."

This quotation is the more noticeable, because it recognises the sacred character of Skelton
(however unworthy of the gown) in the prefix "Sir," which, as most people are aware, was then
generally given to clergymen: Scoggin, on the other hand, is only styled "Master Scoggin."

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

[The preceding communication was already in type when we received the following from Mr. Bolton
Corney, which we gladly print, inasmuch as it illustrates some points not touched upon by Mr.
Collier.]

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 1.

It is not without some slight reluctance that I notice anonymous communications, but shall
endeavour to repress such feelings with regard to the modest students who may choose to announce
their desiderata through the convenient channel of the "NOTES AND QUERIES." A hearty well wisher
to so commendable an enterprise, shall have my first responsive scrap.

The inquiry affords no scope for ingenuity of conjecture!
      Oxford, Joseph Barnes, 1589. 4to.
  "A Skeltonicall salutation," &c.
    Imprinted at London for Toby Cook, 1589. 4to.

The Oxford edition is recorded by Ames, and there is a copy of the London edition in the British
Museum. Strype, in his account of bishop Aylmer, gives the substance of the letter as his own
narrative, almost verbatim--but fails to identify the pamphlet in question. Park briefly describes
it in Censura Literaria, 1815, ii. 18.; and there is a specimen of it in The Poetical Works
of John Skelton, as edited by the Reverend Alexander Dyce, 1843.

While queries evince a sharp mental appetite, answers help to satisfy it; and so, by their
united influence, a brisk circulation of ideas may be produced--which, as master Burton assures
us, wards off melancholy.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON "NOTES, NO. 1."

Sir,--I take the liberty to send you one or two Notes on your first Number, just as they occur
to me in looking it over. I will not trespass on you by preface or apology.

The "bibliographic project" I shall rejoice {20} to see carried out; and though neither an
unemployed aspirant nor a fortunate collector (of which class I hope many will be stimulated
by the proposition), yet, as I once took some trouble in the matter, I should be happy to contribute
some Notes then made whenever the plan is matured and the proposed appeal is made--provided
(I must add, and to you I may add) I can find them.

The Liber Sententiarum was printed by Limborch, at Amsterdam, in 1692. It forms the greater
part, as, indeed, it was the occasion, of his folio volume, entitled "Historia Inquisitionis
cui subjungitur Liber Sententiarum Inquisitionis Tholosanæ ab anno Christi Cl[*C]CCCVI ad annum
Cl[*C]CCCXXIII." Gibbon, in a note on his fifty-fourth chapter, observes that the book "deserved
a more learned and critical editor;" and, if your correspondent will only place the Book of
Sentences before the public in a readable form, with a map, and (by all means) a few notes,
he will be doing a great service to all persons who take an interest in ecclesiastical history,
or, indeed, in history of any kind. In the year 1731 Chandler published a translation of the
History of the Inquisition, with a long Introduction of his own, but did not meddle with the
Book of Sentences, except so far as to introduce into the text of the History some passages
from it, which Limborch (as he appended the whole book) did not think it necessary to quote.
I remember seeing the MS. in the British Museum within these ten or twelve years, and, according
to my recollection, it was accompanied by papers which would furnish an interesting literary
history of the volume. I hope your correspondent will give us farther information.

N.B.

[Mr. Brooke, of Ufford, has also kindly replied to the Query of INQUISITORIUS, by referring
him to Limborch.]

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERY AS TO REFERENCES.

Sir,--May I be permitted to suggest one way in which you may be of great service to many literary
men, and indeed to the cause of literature in general; and this, too, without much trouble
to yourself? Would you be willing to receive "Queries" respecting references? They frequently
puzzle those who are engaged in literary works, and indeed those who are merely readers, and
who have not access to public libraries or the manuscript treasures of the metropolis and the
universities. If, for instance, a clergyman or squire, interested in the history of his parish,
should find in the county historian something which his own local or genealogical knowledge
leads him to think erroneous, vouched for by a reference to the Cotton or Harleian MSS., might
he apply to you? It may be supposed that you are not very far from some one of the great fountains
of information, and have easy access to all; and it is probable that you might not only do
a personal favour to the inquirer, but confer a benefit on the public, by correcting an erroneous
statement. Of course you would subject yourself to unreasonable requests, but the remedy would
always be in your own hands.

Yours, &c.

A. G. C.

[The Editor inserts this letter because he is sure that it comes from a friendly quarter, and
he knows that something like what it suggests is very much wanted. He would feel great diffidence
as to his powers of fulfilling all that might be expected if he were simply to reply in the
affirmative: but he is quite willing to make the trial, and he thinks that (though sometimes
perhaps with a little delay) he could in general obtain any information of this kind which
could be reasonably sought.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES IN THE STYLE OF SUCKLING.

Mr. Editor,--The following lines are written in pencil on sheet 61. of the Notes of the Debates
in the Long Parliament, taken down in the House of Commons by Sir Ralph Verney. The Notes of
Debates, but not these lines, were published by the Camden Society in 1845. For any thing that
appears to the contrary, these lines may have been written in the House as well as the Notes
of Debates. The sheet 61. refers to debates which took place in March 1641-2. I am not aware
that the lines have been published, nor can I assign them to their author. If any of your readers
can tell me anything about them, I shall esteem it a favour.

  Wert thou yet fairer than thou art,
    Which lies not in the power of art;
  Or hadst thou, in thine eyes, more darts
    Than Cupid ever shot at hearts;
  Yet, if they were not thrown at me,
    I could not cast one thought at thee. {21}

  I'd rather marry a disease
    Than court the thing I cannot please;
  She that will cherish my desires,
    Must feed my flames with equal fires.
  What pleasure is there in a kiss,
    To him that doubts the heart's not his?

  I love thee, not 'cause thou art fair,
    Smoother than down, softer than air,
  Nor for those Cupids that do lie
   In either corner of thine eye;
  Will you then know what it may be?
    'Tis--I love you 'cause you love me.

J. BRUCE.

24th Oct. 1849

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON ANCIENT LIBRARIES.

A knowledge of the intellectual acquirements of the middle ages must be mainly formed upon
a consideration of the writings which directed them, or emanated from them. Unfortunately such
materials are very imperfect, our knowledge of the existence of works often resting only upon
their place in some loosely-entered catalogue--and of the catalogues themselves, the proportion
still remaining must be small indeed. Under these circumstances the following documents, which
are now for the first time printed, or even noticed, will be found to be of considerable interest.
The first is, in modern language, a Power of Attorney, executed by the Prior of Christ Church,
Canterbury, appointing two of the monks of his church to be his procurators for the purpose
of receiving from the convent of Anglesey, in Cambridgeshire[1], a book which had been lent
to the late Rector of Terrington. Its precise date is uncertain, but it must be of about the
middle of the thirteenth century (1244-1254), as Nicholas Sandwich, the Prior of Christ Church,
was the second of four priors who presided between the years 1234 and 1274.

    "N. Prior Ecclesiæ Christi Cantuariensis discretis viris et
    religiosis Domino Priori de Anglesheya et ejusdem loci sacro
    conventui salutem in Domino. Cum sincera semper caritate
    noverit faternitas vestra nos constiuisse fratres Gauterum de
    Hatdfeld et Nicolaum de Grantebrigiense Ecclesiæ nostræ monachos
    latores precencium procuratores nostros ad exigendum et
    recipiendum librum qui intitulatur. Johannes Crisestomus de
    laude Apostoli. In quo etiam volumine continentur Hystoria vetus
    Britonum quæ Brutus appellatur et tractatus Roberti Episcopi
    Herfordiæ de compoto. Quæ quondam accommodavimus Magistro
    Laurentio de Sancto Nicholao tunc Rectori ecclesiæ de Tyrenton.
    Qui post decessum præfati Magistri L. penes vos morabatur et
    actenus moratur. In cujus rei testimonium has litteras patentes
    nostro sigillo signatas vobis transmittimus."

The contents of the book which is the subject of this special embassy are of the character
usually found to have formed the staple of monastic libraries, though the particular treatises
included in it are not common.

In the Reverend Joseph Hunter's valuable treatise upon English Monastic Libraries[2] occurs
a notice of an indenture executed in A.D. 1343, whereby the priory of Henton lent no less than
twenty books to another monastic establishment. The deed is described, but not printed. It
will be seen that the instrument we have given above is nearly a century earlier; and the minute
description of the book given in this document supplies some very curious facts illustrative
of the mode of putting together ancient books, which have not hitherto been remarked, for the
simple reasons that no opportunity for comparison like that presented by the present case has
yet been noticed. Among the Cottonian MSS. (Galba E. iv.) is a perfect specimen of an ancient
Library Catalogue, which, although not altogether unnoticed, deserves a more careful examination
than it has yet received. It relates to the magnificent monastic foundation from which emanated
the deed we have printed above, and is headed "Tituli librorum de libraria Ecclesiæ Christi
Cantuariensis et contenta in eisdem libris tempore H. Prioris." It is written in that bold
hand which prevails so extensively in ecclesiastical MSS., with but little variation, from
the middle of the fourteenth century, to the end of the fifteenth,--a hand which is not always
clearly written, and which therefore, in itself, does not materially assist in the distinction
of a date. Now having first assigned the credit of this noble {22} Catalogue--in which are
entered about 600 volumes, in nearly every one of which, besides the substantive (or initial?)
work, are particularised numerous detached writings, varying from two or three to five-and-forty
distinct "tracts"--to Prior Henry Chichely (1413--1443), the founder of All Souls' and St.
John's Colleges, Oxford, and who, "built the library of the church, and furnished it with books,"
we will see whether the book "qui intitulatur Johannes Crisestomus," &c. was returned to Canterbury,
and had a place in the list;--and this, we think, is satisfactorily shown by the following entry:--

  "Johannes Crisostomus de laude Apostoli.
    In hoc volumine continentur
  Idem de laude Redemptoris.
  Brutus latine.
  Nomina Regum Britanniæ sicut in ordine successerunt.
  Nomina Archiepiscoporum Cantuariensis sicut in ordine successerunt.
  Tabula et questiones Bede de ratione temporum.
  Tabula ejusdem et expositio super tabulam de lunationibus.
  Descriptio Britanniæ Insulæ.
  Expositio super Merlinum, imperfecta."

It may perhaps be supposed that this proves too much, as, besides the direct title of the volume,
eight "tracts" are here entered, while in the Power of Attorney only two are noticed. But we
would maintain, nevertheless, that it is the identical book, and explain this variation in
the description by the circumstance that the library having, in the space of nearly two centuries,
been materially enriched, numerous works, consisting in many cases only of a single "quaternion,"
were inserted in the volumes already existing. An examination of the structure of books of
this period would confirm this view, and show that their apparent clumsiness is to be explained
by the facility it was then the custom to afford for the interpolation or extraction of "sheets,"
by a contrivance somewhat resembling that of the present day for temporarily fixing loose papers
in a cover, and known as the "patent leaf-holder."

The second document is a list of certain books, belonging to the monastery of Anglesey, early
in the fourteenth century, allotted out to the canons of the house for the purpose of custody,
or, perhaps, of study or devotion.

  "Isti libri liberati sunt canonicis die ... anno regni Regis Edwardi
          septimo"[3] (7 Edw. II. A.D. 1314.)
  Penes Dominum Priorem; Parabelæ Salomonis; Psalterium cum ...
  Penes Dominum J. de Bodek.; Epistolæ Pauli...; Quædam notulæ super
          psalter et liber miraculorum ... Mariæ cum miraculis sanctorum.
  Penes Sub-priorem; Liber vitæ Sancti Thomæ Martiris.
  Penes E. de Ely; Quartus liber sententiarum cum sermo...; Liber
          Reymundi; Liber de vitiis et virtutibus et pastorale.
  Penes R. Pichard; Liber Alquini; Liber Johannis de Tyrington cum
          Catone et aliis.
  Penes Henrici Muchet; Liber de vita Sanctæ Mariæ Magdalenæ et
          remediarum (?)
  Penes Walteri de Yilwilden; Liber S ... ligatus in panno ymnaro
          glosatus cum constitutionibus; Belet ligatus et vita sanctorum.
  Penes Ricardi de Queye; Omeliæ Gregorii (?) super Evangelistos ligatæ
          in nigro corio.
  In commune biblia; Decreta; Decretales; Prima pars moralium Job; Liber
          de abusionibus.
  Liber justitiæ; penes Magistrum Adam de Wilburham.
  Penes Walteri de Wyth; Liber Innocentii super sacramenta cum Belet et
          introductione in uno volumine.
  Item penes Sup-priorem; Psalterium glosatum duod fuit in custodia
          Magistri Henrice de Melreth.
  Item aliud psalterium glosatum inpignoratum penes Isabellam Siccadona.

Several of these descriptions are highly curious; particularly the last item, which describes
one of the "glossed" psalters as being "in pawn," a fact which, in itself, tells a history
of the then condition of the house.

The first document, taken in connection with that referred to by Mr. Hunter would seem to establish
the existence of a system of interchanging the literary wealth of monastic establishments,
and thereby greatly extending the advantages of their otherwise scanty stores. Both are executed
with all the legal forms used in the most important transactions, which would support the opinion
of their not {23} being special instances: but they are, in either case, curious and satisfactory
evidence of the care and caution exercised by the monks in cases where their books were concerned;
and one cannot but regret that when the time came that the monasterias were destined to be
dissolved, and their books torn and scattered to the winds, no attention was paid to Bale's
advice for the formation of "one solemne library in every shire of England."

JOSEPH BURTT

    [1] The information given of this house by Dugdale is very
    scanty. It could surely be added to considerably.

    [2] London, 1831. quarto. See also a Paper by Mr. Halliwell in
    the Archæologia, xxvii. p. 455., and Sir Francis Palgrave's
    Introduction to Documents and Records illustrating the History
    of Scotland, pp. xcvi.--cxvi., for extracts from the
    historical chronicles preserved in the monasteries, &c.

    [3] The formula of this date, "anno R.R.E. septimo," would at
    first sight be considered to refer to the preceding reign; but
    the list is merely a memorandum on the dorse of a completely
    executed instrument dated A.D. 1300, which it is highly
    improbable that it preceded. The style of Edward II. is often
    found as above, though not usually so.

       *       *       *       *       *

PEDLAR'S SONG ATTRIBUTED TO SHAKSPERE, AND TRADITION CONNECTED WITH SHAKSPERE'S "HAMLET."

The following verses, which would form a very appropriate song for Autolycus, were arranged
as a glee for three voices by Dr. Wilson about the year 1667. They are published in Playford's
Musical Companion in 1673; in Warren's Collection of Glees and Catches; and in S. Webbe's Conveto
Harmonico. The words were, I believe, first ascribed to Shakspere by Clark, in 1824, in his
Words of Glees, Madrigals, &c.; but he has not given his authority for so doing. It has been
stated that they have since been discovered in a common-place book written about Shakspere's
time, with his name attached to them, and with this indirect evidence in favour of their being
written by him, that the other pieces in the collection are attributed to their proper writers.
The late Mr. Douce, who was inclined to believe the song to have been written by Shakspere,
once saw a copy of it with a fourth verse which was shown to him by the then organist of Chichester.
The poem is not included in Mr. Collier's edition of Shakspere, nor in the Aldine edition of
Shakspere's Poems, edited by the Rev. A. Dyce. Perhaps if you will be good enough to insert
the song and the present communication in the "NOTES AND QUERIES," some of your readers may
be enabled to fix the authorship and to furnish the additional stanza to which I have referred.

PEDLAR'S SONG.

  Madam, come, see what you lack,
  I've complexions in my pack;
  White and red you may have in this place,
  To hide your old and wrinkled face.
  First, let me have but a touch of your gold,
        Then you shall seem
        Like a girl of fifteen,
  Although you be threescore and ten years old.

While on this subject, perhaps I may be permitted to ask whether any reader of the "NOTES AND
QUERIES" can throw light on the following questionable statement made by a correspondent of
the Morning Herald, of the 16th September, 1822.

    "Looking over and old volume the other day, printed in 1771,
    I find it remarked that it was known as a tradition, that
    Shakspeare shut himself up all night in Westminster Abbey when
    he wrote the ghost scene in Hamlet."

I do not find in Wilson's Shakspeariana the title of a single "old" book printed in 1771, on
the subject of Shakspere.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR WILLIAM SKIPWYTH, KING'S JUSTICE IN IRELAND.

Mr. Editor,--I am encouraged by the eminent names which illustrate the first Number of your
new experiment--a most happy thought--to inquire whether they, or any other correspondent,
can inform me who was the William de Skypwith, the patent of whose appointment as Chief Justice
of the King's Bench in Ireland, dated February 15. 1370, 44 Edward III., is to be found in
the New Fædera vol. iii. p.877.? In the entry on the Issue Roll of that year, p. 458., of the
payment of "his expences and equipment" in going there, he is called "Sir William Skipwyth,
Knight, and the King's Justice in Ireland." {24}

There was a Sir William Skipwyth, who was appointed a Judge of the Common Pleas in 33 Edward
III., and Chief Baron of the Exchequer in 36 Edward III.; and, were it not that Collins, in
his Baronetage, followed by Burke, says that he remained Chief Baron till 40 Edward III., in
which year he died, I should have had no doubt that the Irish Chief Justice was the same with
the English Chief Baron.

The same authority adds that Sir William Skipwyth who was made a Justice of the King's Bench
[it should have been of the Common Pleas] in 50 Edward III., and who resigned his office in
11 Richard II., was the eldest son of the Chief Baron. But that authority does not make the
slightest allusion to the appointment of the Chief Justice of Ireland.

A suspicion that this last Justice of the Common Pleas is not only the same person as the Chief
Justice of Ireland, but also as the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, has arisen in my mind for
the following among other reasons.

1. Collins and Burke are wrong in saying that he remained Chief Baron till 40 Edward III. His
successor in that office was appointed on October 29. 1365, 39 Edward III.

2. They are further wrong, I imagine, in saying that he continued Chief Baron till his death:
for Joshua Barnes, in his History of Edward III., p. 667., says that Skipwyth and Sir Henry
Green, the Chief Justice of the King's Bench, were in 1365 arrested and imprisoned on account
of many enormities which the King understood they had committed against law and justice; and
this relation is corroborated by the fact that Green's successor as Chief Justice was appointed
on the same day as Skipwyth's successor as Chief Baron.

3. No proof whatever is given of the Chief Baron's death in 40 Edward III.

I will not trouble you with other grounds of identification which occur to me: but as an answer
to my question might "make these odds all even," I sent the "Query" to the "Lost and Found
Office" you have established, in the hope that some stray "Note," as yet unappropriated, may
assist in solving the difficulty.

EDWARD FOSS.

November 5. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE THISTLE OF SCOTLAND.

Mr. Editor,--May I ask if any of your contibutors could inform me in an early number, when
and on what occasion the Thistle was adopted as the emblem of the Scottish nation? I have looked
into many historians, but as yet found nothing definite enough.

R. L.

Paisley, Oct. 29. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTURE OF THE DUKE OF MONMOUTH.

Mr. Editor,--Having noticed the letter of Mr. John Bruce, in your Miscellany, I beg leave to
inform him that the ash tree under which Monmouth was taken is still standing on the Woodland
estate, now the property of the Earl of Shaftesbury.

I shall be happy at some future day, if it suits your purpose, to collect and send you such
particulars as may be gained on the spot respecting it, and the incidents of the capture.

We have still in the Town Hall here the chain in which it is said Jefferies sat at the Bloody
Assize.

A. D. M.

Dorcester, 3d Nov. 1849.

[We shall gladly receive the particulars which our Correspondent proposed to collect and forward.]

       *       *       *       *       *

SERPENTS' EGGS AND STRAW NECKLACES.

[Mr. Thoms' Query in this case should have been limited to the straw necklaces, as Mr. Nichols
has already explained the serpents' eggs; but our Correspondent's letter is so satisfactory
on both points that we insert it entire.]

The passage from Erasmus, "brachium habet ova serpentum," is plainly to be rendered "and with
a string of serpents' eggs on your arm." The meaning is equally apparent on recalling the manner
in which snakes' eggs are found, viz., hanging together in a row. Erasmus intends Menedemus
to utter a joke at the rosary of beads hanging over the pilgrim's arm, which he professes to
mistake for serpents' eggs.

I am not aware what particular propriety the "collar or chaplet" (for it may mean either) of
straw may have, as worn by a pilgrim from Compostella; or whether there may not lurk under
this description, as beneath {25} the other, a jocular sense. The readiest way of determining
this point would be to consult some of the accounts of Compostella and of its relics, which
are to be found in a class of books formerly abundant in the north-western towns of Spain.

V.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADOC--HIS EXPEDITION TO AMERICA.

"A Student" may consult the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen,
Mr. Geogehan's Ireland, O'Flaherty's Ogygia, Magnusen and Rafn On the Historical Monuments
of Greenland and America, and some of the Sagas.

SCOTUS.

Brechin, Nov. 5. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON COFFEE.

The earliest account we have of coffee is said to be taken from an Arabian MS. in the Bibliothèque
du Roi in Paris.

Schehabeddin Ben, an Arabian author of the ninth century of the Hegira, or fifteenth of the
Christians, attributes to Gemaleddin, Mufti of Aden, a city of Arabia Felix, who was nearly
his contemporary, the first introduction into that country, of drinking coffee. He tells us,
that Gemaleddin, having occasion to travel into Persia, during his abode there saw some of
his countrymen drinking coffee, which at that time he did not much attend to; but, on his return
to Aden, finding himself indisposed, and remembering that he had seen his countrymen drinking
coffee in Persia, in hopes of receiving some benefit from it, he determined to try it on himself;
and, after making the experiment, not only recovered his health, but perceived other useful
qualities in that liquor; such as relieving the headach, enlivening the spirits, and, without
prejudice to the constitution, preventing drowsiness. This last quality he resolved to turn
to the advantage of his profession; he took it himself, and recommended it to the Dervises,
or religious Mahometans, to enable them to pass the night in prayer, and other exercises of
their religion, with greater zeal and attention. The example and authority of the mufti gave
reputation to coffee. Soon men of letters, and persons belonging to the law, adopted the use
of it. These were followed by the tradesmen and artisans that were under the necessity of working
in the night, and such as were obliged to travel late after sunset. At length the custom became
general in Aden; and it was not only drunk in the night by those who were desirous of being
kept awake, but in the day for the sake of its other agreeable qualities.

Before this time coffee was scarce known in Persia, and very little used in Arabia, where the
tree grew. But, according to Schehabeddin, it had been drunk in Æthiopia from time immemorial.

Coffee being thus received at Aden, where it has continued in use ever since without interruption,
passed by degrees to many neighbouring towns; and not long after reached Mecca, where it was
introduced as at Aden, by the Dervises, and for the same purposes of religion.

