"'Tis all one!" said I, laying down the newspaper on the breakfast table, after reading an
erroneous representation of myself and the Marquess of Sligo:--"I am resolved to remove this
stain from my character, and, if hard-rubbing can do it, I may hope to succeed." I had scarcely
pronounced these words, when my servant entered the room to inform me that a person had arrived
in breathless haste, imploring my assistance for a gentleman in a dying condition. Heedful,
as I ever am to attend to the sufferings of others--a pursuit in which I have found ample fee-licity--I
drew on my boots and followed the applicant to the house of the suffering gentleman. This was
situated in a picturesque part of the metropolis, and, on knocking, the door was opened to
me by a man who might be six and forty years of age--there, or thereabout. Guessing the purport
of my visit, he said nothing, but led me up to his master's room, when a spectacle of the most
appalling character met my eyes. A gentleman in the prime of life, lay extended on a bed--his
hair dishevelled, his dress disordered, and his complexion a midway hue between the tints of
chalk and Cheshire cheese. His tongue hung out of his mouth, loaded with evidence of internal
strife. I naturally believed that the present was a confirmed case of phthisis pulmonalis,
and I accordingly had recourse to my well known, and, with-few-exceptions-always-successful
remedy of inhaling. In this instance, however, it did not answer my expectations. Instead of
benefitting the trachea, it produced a sympathetic affection of the stomach and diaphragm,
and the oesophagus formed the medium of communication between the patient and myself. Having
taken a pinch of snuff, I was about to give my other infallible remedy a fair trial, when the
patient opened his eyes. But, gracious heaven! what eyes! The visual orb was swoln, blood-shot,
troubled and intolerably dull. At the same moment, some incoherent expressions fell from the
unfortunate gentleman. After a reference to the kidneys, he seemed to wish for something to
be found in the coal-hole, or the cider-cellar; but the search of the servant below stairs
was unavailing. I now began to apprehend delirium. To be sure of the state of his mind, I inquired
if there were any clergyman whom he would wish to see: He exclaimed, "O venerable old Offley!"
But when I expressed to the servants a wish that this reverend gentleman might be sent for,
they assured me that they had never heard of him! The patient then muttered some inarticulate
sounds, and turned on his side. This position being favourable for my original operation of
rubbing, I slit up the back of his coat, waistcoat, and all other vestmental impediments, and
smartly applied a solution of tartarised antimony along the course of the spine. The effect
was instantaneous on the alimentary canal, and a griping in the transverse arch of the colon
well nigh put a full stop to the patient's sufferings. The ductus communis choledochus again
deluged the stomach, and with the customary consequences. The scene now, became almost insupportable.
An aged nurse, who had, from the infancy of the patient, been his domestic, declared that she
could hold out no longer. Poor creature! the tear of affection glistened in her eye; while
her convulsed features betrayed uncontrollable sensations. It was a struggle between the heart
and the stomach: the heart, remained true, but the stomach turned. At this the patient commenced
cursing, swearing, and blaspheming, in a way which will be found fully detailed with all due
dashes --! --! --! &c. &c. in the last number of a Northern magazine. "Zounds!" cried he, starting
up on his séant--"Who are you? who sent for you? May the fiends catch you and cleave to you
for ever! Give us the hips! a small glass of brandy! ha! ha! ha! O my back! D--n all doctors!
Here am I stung and tortured with gastritis, hepatitis, splenitis, nephritis, epistaxis, odontalgia,
cardialgia, diarhoea, and a whole legion of devils with Latin names! D--n all doctors again,
say I!" And with this exclamation, he hurled a curious crown of crockery at my head, which
fitted on so tightly, that only by breaking it, could I disengage myself from the delfic diadem.
I hastily ran down stairs, and, meeting the man of six and forty in the passage, I inquired
of him very minutely concerning the state of his master. He answered all my questions with
perfect candour, and not without a certain archness of look and manner rather unusual among
men of six and forty in his rank of life. From all I elicited, and also from certain corroborative
proofs, which I do not think it necessary now to specify, I have no hesitation in declaring,
for the information of the profession to which I do not belong, and of the public generally,
that in this case my abstruse remedies had not a fair trial, inasmuch as the patient's state
was vulgarly simple. He had been drunk the night before!

J. ST. J.L.

Fraser's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

HISTORY OF THE PENNY.

Dryden.

According to Camden and Spelman, the ancient English penny[2] was the first silver coin struck
in England, and the only one current among our Saxon ancestors.

In the time of Ethelred, it was equal in weight to our threepence. Till the time of King Edward
I. the penny was struck with a cross, so deeply indented in it, that it might be easily broken,
and parted on occasion into two parts, thence called half-pennies; or into four, thence called
fourthings, or farthings; but that prince coined it without indenture, in lieu of which he
struck round halfpence and farthings. He also reduced the weight of the penny to a standard,
ordering that it should weigh thirty-two grains of wheat taken out of the middle of the ear.
This penny was called the penny sterling. Twenty of these pence were to weigh an ounce; whence
the penny became a weight, as well as a coin. By subsequent acts it has been further reduced.
In ancient statutes, the penny was used for all silver money; hence the ward-penny, the avert-penny,
the rete-penny, &c.

The ward-penny was formerly a customary due paid to the sheriff, or other officer, for maintaining
watch and ward. It was payable at the feast of St. Martin; and is still paid within the manor
of Sutton Colfield, in Warwickshire, and that with some very singular ceremonies.

The aver-penny, or average-penny, was contributed towards the king's averages, or money given
to be freed thereof.

The rete-penny was an ancient customary due of one penny for every person to the parish priest.

The schar-penny was a compensation paid by tenants who neglected to pen up their cattle at
night in the pounds or yard of their lord, for the benefit of their dung, or scearn, as the
Saxons called it.

Peter-pence were an ancient tax of a penny on each house throughout England, paid to the Pope.
It was called Peter-pence because collected on the day of St. Peter ad vincula. By the Saxons
it was called Rome-feoh--i.e. the fee of Rome; and also Rome-scot, and Rome-pennying, because
collected and sent to Rome. And lastly, it was called hearth-money, because every dwelling-house
was liable to it, provided there were thirty pence vivae pecuniae belonging to it--nay, every
religious house, the Abbey of St. Alban's alone excepted. It was finally prohibited under Queen
Elizabeth.

"The money of England (says Chamberlayne) was abused and falsified for a long time; till Queen
Elizabeth, in the year 1560, to her great praise, called in all such money; since which time,
no base money hath been coined in the Mint of England, but only of pure gold and silver, called
sterling money; only of latter time, in relation to the necessity of the poor, and exchange
of great money, a small piece of copper, called a farthing, or fourth part of a penny, hath
been permitted to be coined; and so likewise an halfpenny of two farthings."

Penny pieces of copper were first issued in England June 26, 1797.

N.B. This is a penny article, but it is hoped the reader will not object to pay twopence for it.

P.T.W.

    [2] Derived from pecunia.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF  BAIL.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Worry'd with debts, and past all hopes of bail,
  The unpity'd wretch lies rotting in a jail."

Roscommon.

The system of giving securities, or bail, to answer an accusation, is a custom (says Brewer)
which appears to have been coeval with the Saxon nation. This system was, indeed, subsequently
carried by the Saxons to a burthensome and degrading height--not being confined to those who
were accused of crime, but extending to the whole community, who thus gave surety to answer
anticipated criminality. This object was effected by the division of England into counties,
hundreds, and tithings, and by the direction that every man should belong to some tithing or
hundred; which divisions were pledged to the preservation of the public peace, and were answerable
for the conduct of their inhabitants.

The system of placing all the people under borh, or bail, the origin of which was attributed
to Alfred, is first clearly enforced in the laws of Edgar.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT DIVISIONS OF THE DAY.

Shakspeare.

The Chaldaeans, Syrians, Persians, and Indians began the day at sun-rise, and divided both
the day and night into four parts. This division of the day into quarters was in use long before
the invention of hours.

The Chinese, who begin their day at midnight, and reckon to the midnight following, divide
this interval into twelve hours, each equal to two of ours, and distinguished by a name and
particular figure.

In Egypt the day was divided into unequal hours. The clock invented by Ctesibius, of Alexandria,
136 years B.C. was so contrived as to lengthen or shorten the hours.

The Greeks divided the natural day into twelve hours--a practice derived from the Babylonians.

The Romans called the time between the rising and setting sun, the natural day; and the time
in the twenty-four hours, the civil day. They began and ended their civil day at midnight,
and derived this practice from their ancient jurisprudence and rites of religion, established
long before they had any idea of the division into hours. The first sun-dial seen at Rome was
brought from Catania, in Sicily, in the first punic war, as part of the spoils of that city;
and after this period, they divided the day into twenty-four hours. An officer, called accendus,
used to proclaim the hours; and at the bench of justice (says Kennett) gave notice every three
hours what it was o'clock.

Throughout the Turkish empire, time is reckoned by certain portions of the natural day, resembling
the vigils of the ancient Jews and Romans. Public clocks not being in use, these divisions
of time are proclaimed from the minarets.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.

TRAVELLING NOTES IN SOUTH WALES.

Voyage up the Bristol Channel.--Two steam-packets ply twice every week throughout the year
between Bristol and Swansea. The opposition has been so great this season, that the cabin fare
is only 5s. and the steerage 2s. 6d. for a distance of seventy-five miles. The voyage down
is performed in fine weather in about six hours; while, in consequence of the tide being adverse,
it requires from nine to ten hours to make the voyage up the Channel. We hardly know any voyage
so pleasant of the same length, for the scenery along the shores of the Severn sea, as it is
well known, is singularly romantic and beautiful. We will give a rapid description of the voyage
to Bristol:--Let us suppose ourselves darting between Swansea pier-heads, in the well-known
Palmerston steamer, with her opponent, the Bristol, in her wake. After crossing Swansea Bay,
you pass Porthcawl, about fifteen miles from Swansea, where a harbour has been formed, at a
great expense, by an extensive new coal company, whose works lie fourteen miles distant. This
coast is exposed to all the fury of the Atlantic, the surf against the cliffs appearing very
distinct at Swansea; and the task of forming the Breakwater must have been a difficult one.
The steamers now keep close along shore, in a channel inside the Nass Sands--an extensive and
dangerous bank to seaward. The contrast between the immense and tumultuous masses of breakers
over these sands, particularly if the wind is fresh, and the calmness of the narrow channel
you are securely traversing, is very impressive. These sands, and another large shoal called
the Skerweathers, nearer Swansea, have been fatal to many vessels. In rough weather, however,
the steamers go outside, which lengthens the passage considerably. A large West Indiaman, with
a cargo of rum, &c., was lost a few years ago on a rock near Porthcawl, called the Tusca, which
disappears at high-water; and a dreadful scene of riot occurred amongst the peasantry along
shore in consequence. The coast near Porthcawl appears at Swansea to be the eastern extremity
of the bay; but the bluff point called the Nass, about eight miles farther, is so in reality.
The coast onwards past the Nass point is almost perpendicular, the limestone lying in horizontal
strata, so as to closely resemble a very lofty wall. There are several breaks or openings of
extreme natural beauty as you proceed, which have a double effect on the mind when contrasted
with the stern scenery of this wild coast. St. Donat's Castle, the residence of Mr. T.D.T.
Drake, an extensive and antique structure in fine preservation, with its venerable towers partly
embosomed in wood, is extremely beautiful. The park, studded with deer, shelves gradually down
to the shore; a lofty watch-tower on the heights, and the hanging terraces, must command a
splendid view. St. Donat's Castle is said to have been built nearly a thousand years ago, and
was very strongly fortified: as many Roman coins have been found here, there has probably been
a Roman station near. An extensive cave, accessible only at low water, near here, is said to
have been the retreat of St. Donat.--The steamers still keep close along shore, and pass Aberthaw,
celebrated for its limestone, till you near the Flat and Steep Holmes, two conspicuous islands
in the middle of the Channel, about three miles distant from each other. From a lofty light-house
on the Flat Holme, a magnificent view may be obtained on a clear day of the Channel, with Lundy
Island rearing its head above the distant ocean:--

    "Look round--behold
  How proudly the majestic Severn rides
  On the sea--how gloriously in light
  It rides!"

The Flat Holme, which is nearly ten miles from Cardiff harbour, forms the boundary of the port
of Bristol; and every seven years the mayor and corporation of that city visit it, and go through
some ceremonies prescribed by ancient custom. There are some remarkable and interesting rocks
on the Flat Holme: its only inhabitants are a man and his wife, the attendants at the light-house.
This man is created sole lord of the island by the corporation of Bristol, and has the exclusive
right of fishing round its shores. The Steep Holme is a lofty and barren rock, tenanted alone
by the cormorant and the sea-mew: it is smaller than the Flat Holme. The following lines are
so beautifully descriptive of this lonely and desolate spot, that we cannot resist transcribing
them:

  "The sea-bird claims that solitary spot,
  And around, loud screaming, wheels
  In undisturbed possession: other sounds,
  Save those of shrieking winds and battling cliffs.
  Are seldom heard in that deserted isle.
  The spirit of desolation seems to dwell
  Within it; and although the sun is high,
  And Nature is at holy peace, it has
  An aspect wild and dreary.
  But in the wint'ry storm, when all that sea--
  The terrible Atlantic--breasts its rocks
  In thund'ring conflict, the unearthly howl
  Might almost wake the dead."

N.T. Carrington.

But to proceed with our voyage:--Almost opposite the Holmes there is an extensive view on your
right of Bridgewater Bay, receding inland; and on the left, Pennarth Roads, with the forest
of shipping and town of Cardiff elevated in the distance, present themselves. On this side
the Channel there is nothing more to mention--the thriving and very extensive port of Newport
on the Uske, in Monmouthshire, about twelve miles above Cardiff, not being visible. This town
has risen almost entirely within the present century. It owes its prosperity partly to the
excellent quality and hardness of its coal, which is almost equal to that of Newcastle, and
partly to an unjust and exclusive act of parliament, which enacts that all coals shipped eastward
of the Holmes shall be free of duty, to the great injury of Cardiff, Swansea, and other ports
to the westward. The annual shipments to the port of Bridgewater alone, in consequence, are
100,000 tons. You now stretch nearer the Somersetshire coast; and after passing that beautiful
and much-frequented little watering-place, Weston-supra-mare, clustering on the side of a romantic
declivity along shore, the flood-tide reaches you on arriving in the far-famed King-Road at
the mouth of the Avon, which, in addition to the natural beauty of the surrounding scenery,
generally presents an animating scene of shipping and steamers, lying off till there is sufficient
tide up the river. But we have progressed gently amidst a crowd of small craft past Pill, a
fishing village at its mouth; and after being entranced for five miles with the magnificent
and varied scenery of that lovely river, the classic and palatial buildings of Clifton, cresting
the pinnacle of the rocks, come in sight as you near Cumberland Basin, and form a fit termination
to such a scene. But we must recur to this subject.

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."

SHAKSPEARE.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

We all know that Sir Humphry Davy was the creator of electro-chemistry--that he was the inventer
of the safety-lamp; but few are aware that he was also a poet, and that the chemist wrote the
prologue to the Honey Moon. We knew that he was skilful in angling, for he was the author of
Salmonia; but we did not know that he was the original Green Man, and went a-fishing in a green
dress, with a broad-brimmed green hat stuck with artificial flies, and being, in short, all
green, down to his boots of Indian rubber. He was also an epicure of the drollest kind, for
he was curious in tasting every thing that had never been tasted before, and interfered himself
in the composition of dishes intended for his table, thereby encountering the wrath of strange
cooks, and running serious risks in inn-kitchens. We have long heard his name coupled with
aristocratic parties, but we see how he contrived to reconcile the calls of the laboratory
and the invitations of great people. He worked to the last moment; and, when he was too late
for dinner, covered his dirty shirt with a clean one, there being no time for changing it.
He has been known to wear five strata of shirts at a time, and to have greatly surprised his
friends by his rapid transitions from a state of corpulency to that of considerable leanness.
This was when, at some moment of leisure, he contrived to find time to despoil himself of his
exuvia. All Sir Humphry's experience in high circles (and in the plenitude of his fame he commanded
any rank) never gave him ease of manner: he lacked the original familiarity with polished society,
and his best efforts at pleasing were marred with a disagreeable bearing, which might sometimes
be called pertness, sometimes superciliousness.--As in his dress he oscillated between a dandy
and a sloven, so in his manners he vibrated from familiarity to hauteur. In all personal matters
he missed the golden mean.--Spectator Newspaper.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOUTHFUL PHILOSOPHY.

The young Princess Esterhazy was a great favourite of George IV. At a ball given in honour
of his Majesty's birth-day, the young ladies were each expected to kneel, and present him with
a nosegay; but the princess declared, that as she was of royal blood, she would prefer death
to such degradation. The King received her graciously, notwithstanding her obstinacy; but her
governess sent the child to bed immediately after dinner. "Bon pour la digestion," exclaimed
the princess; which so enraged the governess, that she took her out of bed and whipped her
soundly. "Bon pour la circulation," said the princess; and the next day the governess resigned.--Atlas.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAIN SPEAKING.

At St. Augustine's Sessions, in an appeal case, a witness was asked by Sir Edward Knatchbull,
to relate what took place between him and his master, which he did as follows:--"I told him
he was a liar." Chairman--"Very improper language." Witness--"Can't help that, I am come here
to speak the truth, and you have got it."--Kent and Essex Mer.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEAD HAND. Under the influence of this superstition, a party, a few nights since armed
with a dead man's hand and lighted candle, attacked the house of Mrs. Leonard (the mother of
the priest), in the town of Oldcastle, county of Meath; but, unfortunately for the credit of
the creed, the inmates were alarmed, and the robbers fled, leaving the hand behind them.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAMS.

"Upon his arrival at Perthshire, his Majesty is to be received by a band of two hundred men,
entirely of the Mac clan, arrayed in the ancient national costume."--Scotsman.

  In Scotia our king's to be blessed with a treat,
  A balleting one if the Scotch have their nacks,
  For the papers put forth he's at Perthshire to meet,
  Dressed in tartan and bonnet, a band of all "Macs." (Almacks.)

  Which wert thou, cruel Bishop Bonner,
    A savage wit, or senseless noddy,
  When to extinguish Ridley's faith,
    Thou mad'st a bonfire of his body?

  Disdain'd by the Helen he fondly had wooed,
  A love-stricken swain in a region campestris,
  Thus "clerkly" gave vent to his sorrowful mood,
  Ah! vota si mea valíssent cum Vestris![3]

  Ah me! what foggy thoughts environ
  The man that reads Gait's "Life of Byron."
  --Hudibras parodied.

  "What pens doth Galt in general use?"
  To Farthing thus said Simon Shark;
  "Mostly the Nocto-Polygraph,
  Or pen that writes Sir--in the dark."

PUN-ICUS.

    [3] Vide Certamen Ajacis et Ulyssis. Ovid's Met.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENTARY ABSTINENCE.

Perhaps it is not generally known, and certainly not generally attended to, that an act of
parliament was made in the reign of Edward III. prohibiting any one from being served, at dinner
or supper, with more than two courses; except upon some great holidays there specified, in
which he may be served with three. This act has never been repealed.

J.J.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTICIPATORY EPITAPH.

(To the Editor.)

