THE EAST RIVER TUNNELS.[A]

BY JAMES H. BRACE, FRANCIS MASON, AND S. H. WOODARD, MEMBERS, AM. SOC. C. E.

This paper will be limited to a consideration of the construction of the tunnels, the broader
questions of design, etc., having already been considered in papers by Brig.-Gen. Charles W.
Raymond, M. Am. Soc. C. E., and Alfred Noble, Past-President, Am. Soc. C. E.

The location of the section of the work to be considered here is shown on Plate XIII of Mr.
Noble's paper. There are two permanent shafts on each side of the East River and four single
cast-iron tube tunnels, each about 6,000 ft. long, and consisting of 3,900 ft. between shafts
under the river, and 2,000 ft. in Long Island City, mostly under the depot and passenger yard
of the Long Island Railroad. This tube-tunnel work was naturally a single job. The contract
for its construction was let to S. Pearson and Son, Incorporated, ground being broken on May
17th, 1904. Five years later, to a day, the work was finished and received its final inspection
for acceptance by the Railroad Company.

The contract was of the profit-sharing type, and required an audit, by the Railroad Company,
of the contractor's books, and a careful system of cost-keeping by the Company's engineers,
so that it is possible to include in the following some of the unit costs of the work. These
are given in two parts: The first is called the unit labor cost, and is the cost of the labor
in the tunnel directly chargeable to the thing considered. It does not include the labor of
operating the plant, nor watchmen, yardmen, pipemen, and electricians. The second is called
"top charges," a common term, but meaning different things to different contractors and engineers.
Here, it is made to include the cost of the contractor's staff and roving laborers, such as
pipemen, electricians, and yardmen, the cost of the plant and its operation, and all miscellaneous
expenses, but does not include any contractor's profit, nor cost of materials entering permanent
work.

The contractor's plant is to be described in a paper by Henry Japp,[B] M. Am. Soc. C. E., and
will not be dealt with here.

The contractors carried on their work from three different sites. From permanent shafts, located
near the river in Manhattan, four shields were driven eastward to about the middle of the river;
and, from two similar shafts at the river front in Long Island City, four shields were driven
westward to meet those from Manhattan. From a temporary shaft, near East Avenue, Long Island
City, the land section of about 2,000 ft. was driven to the river shafts.

[Footnote A: Presented at the meeting of December 15th, 1909.]

[Footnote B: Transactions, Am. Soc. C. E., Vol. LXIX. p. 1.]

TUNNELS FROM EAST AVENUE TO THE RIVER SHAFTS.

The sinking of the temporary shaft at East Avenue was a fairly simple matter. Rough 6 by 12-in.
sheet-piling, forming a rectangle, 127 by 34 ft., braced across by heavy timbering, was driven
about 28 ft. to rock as the excavation progressed. Below this, the shaft was sunk into rock,
about 27 ft., without timbering. As soon as the shaft was down, on September 30th, 1904, bottom
headings were started westward in Tunnels A, B, and D. When these had been driven about half
the distance to the river shafts, soft ground was encountered. (See Station 59, Plate XIII.)
As the ground carried considerable water, it was decided to use compressed air. Bulkheads were
built in the heading, and, with an air pressure of about 15 lb. per sq. in., the heading was
driven through the soft ground and into rock by ordinary mining methods. The use of compressed
air was then discontinued. West of this soft ground, a top heading, followed by a bench, was
driven to the soft ground at about Station 66. Tunnel C, being higher, was more in soft ground,
and at first it was the intention to delay its excavation until it had been well drained by
the bottom headings in the tunnels on each side. A little later it was decided to use a shield
without compressed air. This shield had been used in excavating the stations of the Great Northern
and City Tunnel in London. It was rebuilt, its diameter being changed from 24 ft. 8-1/2 in.
to 23 ft. 5-1/4 in. It proved too weak, and after it had flattened about 4 in. and had been
jacked up three times, the scheme was abandoned, the shield was removed, and work was continued
by the methods which were being used in the other tunnels. The shield was rather light, but
probably it would have been strong enough had it been used with compressed air, or had the
material passed through been all earth. Here, there was a narrow concrete cradle in the bottom,
with rock up to about the middle of the tunnel, which was excavated to clear the shield, and
gave no support on its sides. The shield was a cylinder crushed between forces applied along
the top and bottom.

With the exception of this trial of a shield in Tunnel C, and a novel method in Tunnel B, where
compressed air, but no shield, was used, the description of the work in one tunnel will do for all.

From the bottom headings break-ups were started at several places in each tunnel where there
was ample cover of rock above. Where the roof was in soft ground, top headings were driven
from the points of break-up and timbered. As soon as the full-sized excavation was completed,
the iron lining was built, usually in short lengths.

It will be noticed on Plate XIII that there is a depression in the rock between Station 65
and the river shafts, leaving all the tunnels in soft ground. As this was directly under the
Long Island Railroad passenger station, it was thought best to use a shield and compressed
air. This was done in Tunnels A, C, and D, one shield being used successively for all three.
It was first erected in Tunnel D at Station 64 + 47. From there it was driven westward to the
river shaft. It was then taken apart and re-erected in Tunnel C at Station 63 + 63 and driven
westward to the shaft. It was then found that there would not be time for one shield to do
all four lines. The experience in Tunnels C and D had proven the ground to be much better than
had been expected. There was considerable clay in the sand, and, with the water blown out by
compressed air, it was very stable. A special timbering method was devised, and Tunnel B was
driven from Station 66 + 10 to the shaft with compressed air, but without a shield. In the
meantime the shield was re-erected in Tunnel A and was shoved through the soft ground from
Station 65 + 48 nearly to the river shaft, where it was dismantled.

There was nothing unusual about the shield work; it was about the same as that under the river,
which is fully described elsewhere. In spite of great care in excavating in front of the shield,
and prompt grouting behind it, there was a small settlement of the building above, amounting
to about 1-1/2 in. in the walls and about 5 in. in the ground floors which were of concrete
laid like a sidewalk directly upon the ground. Whether this settlement was due to ground lost
in the shield work or to a compacting of the ground on account of its being dried out by compressed
air, it is impossible to say.

The interesting features of this work from East Avenue to the river shafts are the mining methods
and the building of the iron tube without a shield.

EXCAVATION IN ALL ROCK.

Where the tunnel was all in good rock two distinct methods were used. The first was the bottom-heading-and-break-up,
and the second, the top-heading-and-bench method. The first is illustrated by Figs. 1 and 2,
Plate LXIII. The bottom heading, 13 ft. wide and 9 ft. high, having first been driven, a break-up
was started by blasting down the rock, forming a chamber the full height of the tunnel. The
timber platform, shown in the drawing, was erected in the bottom heading, and extended through
the break-up chamber. The plan was then to drill the entire face above the bottom heading and
blast it down upon the timber staging, thus maintaining a passage below for the traffic from
the heading and break-ups farther down the line. Starting with the condition indicated by Plate
XIII, the face was drilled, the columns were then taken down and the muck pile was shoveled
through holes in the staging into muck cars below. The face was then blasted down upon the
staging, the drill columns were set up on the muck pile, and the operation was repeated. This
method has the advantage that the bottom heading can be pushed through rapidly, and from it
the tunnel may be attacked at a number of points at one time. It was found to be more expensive
than the top-heading-and-bench method, and as soon as the depression in the rock at about Station
59 was passed, a top heading about 7 ft. high, and roughly the segment of a 23-ft. circle,
was driven to the next soft ground in each of the four tunnels. The remainder of the section
was taken out in two benches, the first, about 4 ft. high, was kept about 15 ft. ahead of the
lower bench, which was about the remaining 11 ft. high.

EXCAVATION IN EARTH AND ROCK.

About 2,500 ft. of tunnel, the roof of which was in soft ground, was excavated in normal air
by the mining-and-timbering method. In the greater part of this the rock surface was well above
the middle of the tunnel. The method of timbering and mining, while well enough known, has
not been generally used in the United States.

Starting from the break-up in all rock, as described above, and illustrated on Plate XIII,
when soft ground was approached, a top heading was driven from the rock into and through the
earth. This heading was about 7 ft. high and about 6 ft. wide. This was done by the usual post,
cap, and poling-board method. The ground was a running sand with little or no clay, and, at
first, considerable water, in places. All headings required side polings. The roof poling boards
were about 2-1/2 or 3 ft. above the outside limit of the tunnel lining, as illustrated by Figs.
3, 4, and 5, Plate LXIII. The next step was to place two crown-bars, AA, usually about 20 ft.
long, under the caps. Posts were then placed under the bars, and poling boards at right angles
to the axis of the tunnel were then driven out over the bars. As these polings were being driven,
the side polings of the original heading were removed, and the earth was mined out to the end
of these new transverse polings. Breast boards were set on end under the ends of the transverse
polings when they had been driven out to their limit. Side bars, BB, were then placed as far
out as possible and supported on raking posts. These posts were carried down to rock, if it
was near, if not, a sill was placed.

A new set of transverse polings was driven over these side bars and the process was repeated
until the sides had been carried down to rock or down to the elevation of the sills supporting
the posts, which were usually about 4 ft. above the axis of the tunnel.

The plan then was to excavate the remainder of the section and build the iron lining in short
lengths, gradually transferring the weight of the roof bars of the iron lining as the posts
were taken out. This meant that not more than four rings, and often only one ring, could be
built before excavation and a short length of cradle became necessary. Before the posts under
the roof bars could be built and the weight transferred to the iron lining, a grout dam was
placed at the leading end of the iron lining, and grout was brought up to at least 45° from
the top. Such workings were in progress at as many as eight places in one tunnel at the same
time. Where there was only the ordinary ground-water to contend with, the driving of the top
heading drained the ground very thoroughly, and the enlarging was done easily and without a
serious loss of ground. Under these conditions the surface settlement was from 6 in. to 2 ft.

Under Borden Avenue, there was more water, which probably came from a leaky sewer; it was not
enough to form a stream, but just kept the ground thoroughly saturated. There was a continued
though hardly perceptible flow of earth through every crevice in the timbering during the six
or eight weeks between the driving of the top heading and the placing of the iron lining; and
here there was a settlement of from 4 to 8 ft. at the surface.

TUNNELING IN COMPRESSED AIR WITHOUT A SHIELD.

When it became evident that there would not be time for one shield to do the soft ground portions
of all four tunnels under the Long Island Railroad station, a plan was adopted and used in
Tunnel B which, while not as rapid, turned out to be as cheap as the work done by the shields.
Figs. 6 and 7, Plate LXIII, and Fig. 1, Plate LXIV, illustrate this work fairly well. The operation
of this scheme was about as follows: Having the iron built up to the face of the full-sized
excavation, a hole or top heading, about 3 ft. wide and 4 or 5 ft. high, was excavated to about
10 ft. in advance. This was done in a few hours without timbering of any kind; but, as soon
as the hole or heading was 10 ft. out, 6 by 12-in. laggings or polings were put up in the roof,
with the rear ends resting on the iron lining and the leading ends resting on vertical breast
boards. The heading was then widened out rapidly and the lagging was placed, down to about
45° from the crown. The forward ends of the laggings were then supported by a timber rib and
sill. Protected by this roof, the full section was excavated, and three rings of the iron lining
were built and grouted, and then the whole process was repeated.

CONCRETE CRADLES, HAND-PACKED STONE AND GROUTING.

Had the East Avenue Tunnel been built by shields, as was contemplated at the time of its design,
the space between the limits of excavation and the iron lining would have been somewhat less
than by the method actually used, especially in the earth portions. This space would have been
filled with grout ejected through the iron lining. The change in the method of doing the work
permitted the use of cheaper material, in place of part of the grout, and, at the same time,
facilitated the work.

The tube of cast-iron rings is adapted to be built in the tail of the shield. Where no shield
was used, after the excavation was completed and all loose rock was removed, timbers were fixed
across the tunnel from which semicircular ribs were hung, below which lagging was placed. The
space between this and the rough rock surface was filled with concrete. This formed a cradle
in which the iron tube could be erected, and, at the same time, occupied space which would
have been filled by grout, at greater cost, had a shield been used.

As soon as each ring of iron was erected, the space between it and the roof of the excavation
was filled with hand-packed stone. At about every sixth ring a wall of stone laid in mortar
was built between the lining and the rock to serve as a dam to retain grout. The interstices
between the hand-packed stones were then filled with 1 to 1 grout of cement and sand, ejected
through the iron lining. The concrete cradles averaged 1.05 cu. yd. per ft. of tunnel, and
cost, exclusive of materials, $6.70 per cu. yd., of which $2.25 was for labor and $4.45 was
for top charges. The hand-packed stone averaged 1-1/2 cu. yd. per ft. of tunnel, and cost $2.42
per cu. yd., of which $0.98 was for labor and $1.44 was for top charges.

ERECTION OF IRON LINING.

The contractors planned to erect the iron lining with erectors of the same pattern as that
used on the shield under the river, mounted on a traveling stage. These will be described in
detail in Mr. Japp's paper. Two of these stages and erectors worked in each tunnel at different
points. The tunnel was attacked from so many points that these erectors could not be moved
from working to working. The result was that about 58% of the lining was built by hand. At
first thought, this seems to be a crude and extravagant method, as the plates weighed about
1 ton each and about 20,000 were erected by hand. As it turned out, the cost was not greater
than for those erected by machinery, taking into account the cost of erectors and power. This,
however, was largely because the hand erection reduced the amount of work to be done by the
machines so much that the machines had an undue plant charge.

The hand erection was very simple. A portable hand-winch, with a 3/8-in. wire rope, was set
in any convenient place. The wire rope was carried to a snatch-block fastened to the top of
the iron previously built; or, where the roof was in soft ground, the timbering furnished points
of attachment. The end of the wire rope was then hooked to a bolt hole in a new plate, two
men at the winch lifted the plate, and three or four others swung it into approximate place,
and, with the aid of bars and drift-pins, coaxed it into position and bolted it. Where there
was no timbering above the iron, sometimes the key and adjoining plates were set on blocking
on a timber staging and then jacked up to place.

LONG ISLAND SHAFTS.

The river shafts were designed to serve both as working shafts and as permanent openings to
the tunnels, and were larger and more substantial than would have been required for construction
purposes. Plate X of Mr. Noble's paper shows their design. They consist of two steel caissons,
each 40 by 74 ft. in plan, with walls 5 ft. thick filled with concrete. A wall 6 ft. thick
separated each shaft into two wells 29 by 30 ft., each directly over a tunnel. Circular openings
for the tunnel, 25 ft. in diameter, were provided in the sides of the caissons. During the
sinking these were closed by bulkheads of steel plates backed by horizontal steel girders.
The shafts were sunk as pneumatic caissons to a depth of 78 ft. below mean high water. There
have been a few caissons which were larger and were sunk deeper than these, but most large
caissons have been for foundations, such as bridge piers, and have been stopped at or a little
below the surface of the rock. The unusual feature of the caissons for the Long Island shaft
is that they were sunk 54 ft. through rock.

It had been hoped that the rock would prove sound enough to permit stopping the caissons at
or a little below the surface and continuing the excavation without sinking them further; for
this reason only the steel for the lower 40 ft. of the caissons was ordered at first.

The roof of the working chamber was placed 7 ft. above the cutting edge. It was a steel floor,
designed by the contractors, and consisted of five steel girders, 6 ft. deep, 29 ft. long,
and spaced at 5-ft. centers. Between were plates curved upward to a radius of 4 ft. Each working
chamber had two shafts, 3 ft. by 5 ft. in cross-section, with a diaphragm dividing it into
two passages, the smaller for men and the larger for muck buckets. On top of these shafts were
Moran locks. Mounted on top of the caisson was a 5-ton Wilson crane, which would reach each
shaft and also the muck cars standing on tracks on the ground level beside the caissons. Circular
steel buckets, 2 ft. 6 in. in diameter and 3 ft. high, were used for handling all muck. These
were taken from the bottom of the working chamber, dumped in cars, and returned to the bottom
without unhooking. Work was carried on by three 8-hour shifts per day. The earth excavation
was done at the rate of about 67 cu. yd. per day from one caisson. The rock excavation, amounting
to about 6,200 cu. yd. in each caisson, was done at the rate of about 44.5 cu. yd. per day.
The average rate of lowering, when the cutting edge of the south caisson was passing through
earth, was 0.7 ft. per day. In rock, the rate was 0.48 ft. per day in the south caisson, and
0.39 ft. per day in the north caisson.

At the beginning all lowering was done with sixteen hydraulic jacks. Temporary brackets were
fastened to the outside of the caisson. A 100-ton hydraulic jack was placed under each alternate
bracket and under each of the others there was blocking. The jacks were connected to a high-pressure
pump in the power-house. As the jacks lifted the caisson, the blocking was set for a lower
position, to which the caisson settled as the jacks were exhausted. After the caisson had penetrated
the earth about 10 ft., the outside brackets were removed and the lowering was regulated by
blocking placed under brackets in the working chamber. The caisson usually rested on three
sets of blockings on each side and two on each end. The blocking was about 4 ft. inside the
cutting edge. In the rock, as the cutting edge was cleared for a lowering of about 2 ft., 6
by 8-in. oak posts were placed under the cutting-edge angle. When a sufficient number of posts
had been placed, the blocking on which the caisson had rested was knocked or blasted out, and
the rock underneath was excavated. The blocking was then re-set at a lower elevation. The posts
under the cutting edge were then chopped part way through and the air pressure was lowered
about 10 lb., which increased the net weight to more than 4,000,000 lb. The posts then gradually
crushed and the caissons settled to the new blocking. The tilt or level of the caisson was
controlled by chopping the posts more on the side which was desired to move first.

The caisson nearly always carried a very large net weight, usually about 870 tons. The concrete
in the walls, which was added as the caisson was being sunk, was kept at about the elevation
of the ground. There was generally a depth of from 5 to 20 ft. of water ballast on top of the
roof of the working chamber. The air pressure in the working chamber was usually much less
than the hydrostatic head outside the caisson. For example, the average air pressure in the
south caisson during January, 1906, was 16-1/2 lb., while the average head was 62.5 ft., equivalent
to 27 lb. per sq. in. Under these conditions, there was a continued but small leakage into
the caisson of from 15,000 to 20,000 gal. per day.

In the rock the excavation was always carried from 2 to 5 in. outside the cutting edge. As
soon as the cutting edge was cleared, bags of clay were placed under it in a well-tiered, solid
pile, so that when the caisson was lowered the bags were cut through and most of the clay,
bags and all, was squeezed back of the cutting edge between the rock and the caisson.

Table 1 shows the relation of the final position of the caissons to that designed.

The cost of rock excavation in the caisson was $4.48 per cu. yd. for labor and $10.54 for top
charges.

