Mr. BEERBOHM TREE, who has become lessee of the Haymarket, has commenced his management by
producing a one-act romantic play, called The Ballad Monger, a version (capitally adapted by
the two WALTERS--POLLOCK and BESANT) of M. THEODORE DE BANVILLE'S GRINGOIRE. I remember the
same piece was "done into English" some twenty years ago at a Gaiety matinée, when the translator,
Mr. ALFRED THOMPSON, appeared himself as the principal character, with the probably unlooked-for
result of shelving the drama, so far as London was concerned, from that distant date until
last Thursday evening. However, the motif of the play is pretty well known. Gringoire, a revolutionary
"Poet of the People," with the connivance of Louis the Eleventh of France, is induced to recite
an anti-Royalist song in His Majesty's presence, and is then promised his forfeited life by
the same amiable sovereign if he can woo, and win, a maiden who has never set eyes on him before,
within a quarter of an hour. In the scene at the Haymarket a table is discovered spread with
a meal (I could not quite make out from the text whether it was intended to represent breakfast,
dinner, supper, or tea), including some wine, a few grapes, and a freshly-cooked goose redolent
of savoury perfumes. Mr. BEERBOHM TREE is the poet, and were his method of performance only
equal to his power of imagination, he would be very good indeed. Unhappily his excellent ideas
are not carried fully into action, and consequently, after seeing him for forty minutes, or
thereabouts, sniffing at a property goose, staggering about the stage with a wine-cup, and
declaiming poetry of unequal merit to Miss MARION TERRY, one feels that the piece could only
have "a happy ending" were Gringoire to be carried away for immediate execution. It is a little
unfortunate, too, that the maiden to be wooed and won should be the charming actress I have
just mentioned. Miss MARION TERRY, in a "piece of absurdity" called Engaged, made a great hit
some years ago by appearing as a young lady with a chronic appetite for food, that she was
for ever seeking to satisfy. Since then I have always looked upon her as one craving for her
meals. Consequently when I found her within easy reach of a goose and in an atmosphere of herbs
of a savoury character, it seemed unnatural to me that she should deliberately turn her back
upon all these good things to listen to Mr. TREE'S poetically (but lengthily) expressed views
upon liberty. I could but wonder why her choice had not fallen upon the goose on the table.
Mr. BROOKFIELD as Louis the Eleventh, incidentally suggests that that wily monarch was guilty
of a crime with which he has not hitherto been credited--a proneness to give imitations of
Mr. IRVING in the character of Mephistopheles. For the rest, the piece itself is most interesting,
is capitally staged, and in the subordinate characters, fairly acted. In the Red Lamp, which
followed the Ballad Monger, Mrs. TREE appeared as Princess Claudia, the part originally played,
and excellently played, by Lady MONCKTON. Although probably accustomed to rôles of a lighter
kind, she was fairly equal to the occasion. As for her husband, as Demetrius, he was simply
admirable and inimitable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Beerbohm Tree-son.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: A Shooting Party in September.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the Olympic Mr. WILLARD has made his mark as the Pointsman. Since this clever actor first
attracted attention by his wonderfully striking assumption of a "gentleman-burglar," in one
of the earlier successes of Mr. WILSON BARRETT at the Princess's, he has never had so good
a chance of showing what he can do in the polished-scoundrelly line. He is the most accomplished
murderer on the modern stage, and really, if one were forced to die a violent death, Mr. WILLARD
seems to be the individual one would naturally select to perform the necessary, but unpleasant,
operation. It does not in the least matter to an Olympic audience how he comes to be the proprietor
of a low Thames-side tavern when he seems better qualified to lead a cotillon in quite a fashionable
West-End Square. All that is required of him by the Pit and Gallery, ay, and the Private Boxes
and Stalls--is to do his little assassinations and kindred villanies in an educated and refined
manner that can be appreciated by those who have benefited either from the good offices of
the School Board or the careful tuition of the leading Universities. Mr. WILLARD is so good
that no one pays particular attention to the efforts to please of his fellow-actors and actresses.
The scenery of the Pointsman is sufficiently ingenious to satisfy the cravings for sensation
of a typical British audience. The Railway collision worked as a sort of transformation scene,--the
interior of a signal-box changes into the site of a fatal accident--creates much enthusiasm,
but the winsome if vindictive WILLARD still remains the centre of attraction. In the last Act
a good deal of gunpowder is burned advantageously to the simplification of the issue. It is
scarcely necessary to say that, when the Curtain falls, what remains of Virtue is triumphant,
and all that is left of Vice is on the road to justly merited punishment. The Pointsman is
likely to remain on the line of the Olympic bills for many a week to come. I should not be
surprised to find him still there at Christmas.

Exhausted with the labour of looking in at all the principal London Theatres,

I have the honour to remain, my dear Mr. Punch,

ONE WHO HAS GONE TO PIECES.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BARR DRINK.

  Hooray for the Thistle! Scotch yacht without peer;
  May she win in her race with the smart Volunteer.
  Punch hopes, Captain BARR, that no "slip" may turn up
  'Twixt your lip and the yearned-for American Cup.
  On both sides the Border we wish you success,
  And we trust of the race you'll not make a BARR mess.
  Your health in a cocktail, although you're afar,
  And we can't call you--yet--an American BARR!

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: INDEPENDENCE.

    "I'M AFRAID YOU'VE FALLEN DOWN AND HURT YOURSELF, MY LITTLE MAN!"

    "WELL, AND IF I 'AVE, IT AIN'T NONE O' YOUR BUSINESS!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A REGULAR CELL.

SIR,--I am writing in the name of all the righteously indignant sons of Erin, to protest against
the base shameless and infamous treatment accorded to that glorious champion and apostle of
National freedom, the hero, WILLIAM O'BRIEN, by the despicable set of traitors, who, under
cover of the title of "Her Majesty's Government," are trampling, at Westminster, the liberties
of my beloved country in the mud and preparing to fling her sons by thousands into the depths
of the foul and filthy dungeons already marked out for their reception. It is reported that
this, the first victim of their malignant spleen and hatred, is to be subjected to the gross
indignity of receiving the ordinary treatment of a common criminal, and be subjected to the
usual regulations of gaol discipline. Now, Sir, in the name of all that is enlightened and
progressive, I ask, if, at the close of the nineteenth century, such outrage is to be committed?
Surely in answer to my appeal the generous people of England will rise in their might and with
one voice compel the myrmidons appointed to carry out the malignant and iniquitous behests
of the Castle to provide the noble spirit that they had intended to torture with chains and
darkness with a comfortable and roomy four-post bedstead, cheerful apartments, a champagne
dinner with not less than seven courses, daily carriage exercise, the use of a piano and billiard-table
if required, and an introduction to the best society of the neighbourhood, including the Bishop,
the Mayor and other notables. Thus, and thus only, should Irish martyrs be allowed to suffer
for Ireland's wrongs, and in this way alone will the Irish people in their thousands consent
even to the momentary incarceration of the heralds of that mighty struggle with a tyrannic
despotism that they are heroically maintaining, backed by the hearty and enthusiastic support
of an onlooking and applauding Universe, against the blind and blustering bullying of a blood-thirsty
Government. If I write with moderation and temperately it is because I feel confidently that
the trivial relaxations I propose must, if not at once conceded by, be forthwith instantly
wrung from the thieves and scoundrels who at the present moment are responsible for the Executive
of my patient and law-abiding country. Relying on the generous impulse of all those who would
not wish to see the patriot deprived of his home comforts, I beg, Sir, with much self-restraint,
to subscribe myself,

Your calm and dispassionate Correspondent,

EMANCIPATOR HIBERNICUS.

SIR,--What's all this fuss about pushing this fellow O'BRIEN into a cell, nine feet by six?
By all means push him in, or into one six feet by six, for anything I care. If he can't breathe
the fresh air he wants inside, what of that? Serve him right. He has been egging on the dupes
and fools who have listened to him to commit acts that, if the Executive were a trifle stronger,
would soon crowd every gaol in the country to the roof, and now he has got a taste of the same
medicine himself. I hope he likes it. As to his talking of "suffering in his health," who,
I should like to know, supposes he goes to prison to improve it. Again, I say, "Serve him right!"
and if he is let out some eighteen months hence well broken down, perhaps the experience will
teach him to hold his tongue in future, and not go posturing on a platform with his political
claptrap, for the purpose of interfering with the vested interests and inalienable rights of

Yours, rabidly,

AN IRISH TORY LANDLORD.

SIR,--That political prisoners should not be regarded precisely in the same light as common
criminals, public opinion, by a very generally accepted consent, readily admits. Yet Mr. W.
O'BRIEN can hardly expect to find residence in a Government gaol in all respects as comfortable
as that supplied to him in his own chambers. Still he may probably reasonably expect no harsh,
certainly no vindictive treatment, at the hands of the Authorities, but merely that constraint
and subjection to ordinary discipline which his detention necessarily involves. As, after the
issue of the warrant for his arrest, he was allowed virtually to choose his own time for its
service, ride on an open car with a Mayor, preceded by a brass band, playing a solemn march,
take up his residence at an hotel, and subsequently address a crowd from the balcony, the Executive
cannot be said to have been very hard on him, at least in their preliminary treatment, and
probably they will follow it up somewhat in the same lines, and, without making his incarceration
a farce, allow it to be softened with such relaxations that, while not incompatible with the
surrender of his liberty, may yet be found consistent with a due regard to the requirements
of his health, and the circumstances which have led to his rather injudiciously placing it
in jeopardy. Such, at least, Sir, is the view of the situation taken by

Your devoted and constant Correspondent,

COMMON SENSE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: SEA-SIDE WEATHER STUDIES. "THE SEVENTH WAVE."

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT WAS IT?

I had been reading a lot of "Letters to the Times." That may account for any little confusion
in the details of the subsequent events.

My interlocutor was tall and thin, and looming up lanky against a dusky sky, reminded me equally
of an attenuated M.P., a phantom telegraph-pole, and PETER SCHLEMIL, the Shadowless Man.

"TYNDALL is quite right," murmured he.

"Glad to hear it," said I, earnestly. "I had been thinking lately that the distinguished savant
was going decidedly wrong."

"Ah! he understands me!" sighed the Spectre.

It was more than I did; and I said so.

"Who and what are you, anyhow?" I inquired.

The lines of Long-thin-and-hungry seemed to shift and reshape.

"Ah!" came his voice, the same yet not the same, "elevation does not always give coolness,
and one may be torrid and tempestuous even among the Alps."

Somehow this statement, though a truism, did not seem to fit on to previous remarks.

"I was once said to be 'Up in a balloon,'" continued Proteus (now looking rather like the Ancient
Mariner,) "long and lean and brown, but letters written to the Times even from the utmost height
lately attained by the French Aëronauts--to say nothing of the top of the tallest Lightning
Conductor--would, I fear, be hot and ill-balanced. Look at Mr. H. O. ARNOLD-FOSTER!"

"Perhaps--in a sense--we are Lightning Conductors, you know," pursued my companion.

"As how?" I asked vaguely.

"Well we attract, and carry off harmlessly--it doesn't hurt us you see--the accumulated political
electricity, which otherwise might rend and rive the State about which these Angry Amateurs
are so passionately anxious."

I felt more mystified than ever.

"TYNDALL, GRIMTHORPE, and SYMONS, F.R.S., are entirely right," continued old Length-without-breadth;
"A Lightning Conductor which does not conduct lightning, like a Leader who cannot lead, or
a Follower who will not follow, is worse than a nullity, it is a nuisance and a danger."

"Quite so," I rejoined, grasping eagerly at something which seemed definite and comparatively
relevant.

"Lightning Conductors are, in their way, as essential as Law and Order. But as TYNDALL says,
in one case, and as I should say in the latter, all depends upon quality, efficiency, accurate
adaptation to ends. Would you say, Oh! never mind about their quality or fitness, the first
duty of the Executive is to maintain its Lightning Conductors?"

I replied that it really had not occurred to me to make any such statement, but I dared say
I should.

"The Times said of the 'Report of the Lightning Rod Conference,' 'The book is one of the highest
practical value, and all who are responsible for the preservation of public buildings should
endeavour to render themselves familiar with the contents.' How true! That's my find old temperate
'Thunderer.'"

"Who are you who are so down upon TYNDALL?" I asked.

"I down on the learned Professor?" retorted my companion, shifting, dislimning, and elongating
singularly. "On the contrary, I am grateful to him for being 'down upon' the incompetent architects
and careless surveyors who would make of me a pitiful sham. Only" (here another phantasmagorical
shift) "when he angrily declares a certain prominent political personage, who shall be nameless,
to be also 'a pitiful sham,' why, then I think, like so many other and unscientific 'writers
to the papers,' he needs the Conductor of cool Common Sense to divert, carry off, and disperse
his too furious fulminations."

"Then you are only a Lightning Conductor, after all?" I queried, with some sense of being disappointed,
not to say "sold."

"Only!" retorted my spectral and shifting visitant, again shifting spectrally. "Why, I'm thinking
of writing, for the Nineteenth Century, an article on 'Political Lightning Conductors,' which,
I rather flatter myself, will comprehend everything, convince everybody, and conciliate even
Professor TYNDALL. If you like I will read, from the advance-sheets, a few passages which----"

But here I roused myself to determined resistance, and--awoke.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Wing.

  In getting fair hold of the Coburg, Prince FERDINAND,
  Bulgaria palpably thought she'd a "bird in hand,"
  But the Prince and the Bulgars, when put to the push,
  Will probably wish the "bird" back in the bush.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "OVERLOOKED!"

    FIELD-MARSHAL PUNCH (to H.R.H.). "REALLY, YOUR ROYAL HIGHNESS, IN THE
    PRESENT STATE OF OUR DEFENCES, IS SIR EDWARD HAMLEY QUITE THE SORT OF
    MAN TO BE SHELVED?"

[Sir EDWARD HAMLEY served in the Eastern Campaign of 1854-55, including the affairs of Bulganac
and McKenzie's Farm, the Battles of the Alma (horse shot), Balaklava, and Inkerman (horse killed),
the Siege and Fall of Sebastopol, and repulse of the Sortie on the 26th October, 1854 (mentioned
in Despatches, Medal with four clasps, Brevets of Major and Lt.-Colonel, Knight of the Legion
of Honor, Sardinian and Turkish Medals, and 2nd Class of the Medjidie and C.B.). Sir Edward
Hamley is the Author of The Operations of War, a work that may confidently be characterised
as one of the most valuable modern Military books extant--"There exists nothing to compare
with it in the English language for enlightened, scientific, and sober teaching in the general
art of war"--vide the Times of 1st November, 1869. Served in the Egyptian War of 1882, in command
of the 2nd Division, and was present at the Battle of Tel-el-Kebir, where he led the Division
(received the thanks of both Houses of Parliament, twice mentioned in Despatches, K.C.B., Medal
with clasp, 2nd Class of the Osmanieh, and Khedive's Star).--Hart's Army List, July 1, 1887.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S MANUAL FOR YOUNG RECITERS.

The young Reciter is seldom happy in his delivery of blank verse. To which the unsympathetic
may retort, that he does not deserve to be. Mr. Punch, however, recommends his pupils to treat
such sneers with the contempt they merit, and to study the little dramatic exercise which has
just been thrown off by a Blank Verse Bard who is kept on the premises. It can be announced
on programmes as

VENGEANCE FOREGONE!

          (You should have an ordinary wooden elbow-chair and a print
                    wrapper within easy reach. Come on crouching, with
                    an air of tigerish anticipation.)

    'Tis he! Can I mistake the clustered curls
    Upon his hated hyacinthine head?
    Have they not wiled from me the fickle heart
    Of perjured BANDOLINA! There, he stands
    Before my window, where a winsome form,
    Rotating slow with measured self-display,
    Has caught his errant eye. Now, demi-siren,

          [Hands extended in passionate invocation.

    Make languorous those lustrous crystal orbs!
    Wreathe, waxen arms, and lure him in, to me!
    So--once again!--he falters--he is Mine!

          [Savage exultation, with eyebrows.

    Let me be calm.

          (Self-restraint, indicated by violent heaving of
                    shirt-front.)

    Good morning, Sir, to you.
    I pray you--

         (With a forced sickly smile)

    --step within, and seat yourself.
    I will attend you in a moment.

          (Hold open imaginary door; then resume soliloquy
          in fierce undertone.)

    ... Trapped!
    He knows me not.

          (With dark suspicion, which is easily conveyed by half
                    closing eyes and pressing knuckle of bent forefinger
                    against lower lip.)

    Unless I be deceived,
    No hazard freak of hooded Fortune's urn,

          [A nasty line for the "h"-less.

    But BANDOLINA'S dainty insolence
    Decreed this visit ... Ha! my victim calls!
    I come anon. Sir

          (fawningly, with a side-glance of withering hate at your
                    chair.)

