"Well," continued Trent, making bread pills and looking hard at the middle of the table, "I'm
glad of course to be able to give you a passage to 'Frisco; one sailor-man should help another,
that's my motto. But when you want a thing in this world, you generally always have to pay
for it." He laughed a brief, joyless laugh. "I have no idea of losing by my kindness."

"We have no idea you should, captain," said Wicks.

"We are ready to pay anything in reason," added Carthew.

At the words, Goddedaal, who sat next to him, touched him with his elbow, and the two mates
exchanged a significant look. The character of Captain Trent was given and taken in that silent
second.

"In reason?" repeated the captain of the brig. "I was waiting for that. Reason's between two
people, and there's only one here. I'm the judge; I'm reason. If you want an advance you have
to pay for it"--he hastily corrected himself--"If you want a passage in my ship, you have to
pay my price," he substituted. "That's business, I believe. I don't want you; you want me."

"Well, sir," said Carthew, "and what is your price?"

The captain made bread pills. "If I were like you," he said, "when you got hold of that merchant
in the Gilberts, I might surprise you. You had your chance then; seems to me it's mine now.
Turn about's fair play. What kind of mercy did you have on that Gilbert merchant?" he cried,
with a sudden stridency. "Not that I blame you. All's fair in love and business," and he laughed
again, a little frosty giggle.

"Well, sir?" said Carthew gravely.

"Well, this ship's mine, I think?" he asked sharply.

"Well, I'm of that way of thinking myself," observed Mac.

"I say it's mine, sir!" reiterated Trent, like a man trying to be angry. "And I tell you all
if I was a driver like what you are, I would take the lot. But there's two thousand pounds
there that don't belong to you, and I'm an honest man. Give me the two thousand that's yours,
and I'll give you a passage to the coast, and land every man-jack of you in 'Frisco with fifteen
pounds in his pocket, and the captain here with twenty-five."

Goddedaal laid down his head on the table like a man ashamed.

"You're joking," cried Wicks, purple in the face.

"Am I?" said Trent. "Please yourselves. You're under no compulsion. This ship's mine, but there's
that Brooks Island don't belong to me, and you can lay there till you die for what I care."

"It's more than your blooming brig's worth!" cried Wicks.

"It's my price anyway," returned Trent.

"And do you mean to say you would land us there to starve?" cried Tommy.

Captain Trent laughed the third time. "Starve? I defy you to," said he. "I'll sell you all
the provisions you want at a fair profit."

"I beg your pardon, sir," said Mac, "but my case is by itself. I'm working me passage; I got
no share in that two thousand pounds, nor nothing in my pockut; and I'll be glad to know what
you have to say to me?"

"I ain't a hard man," said Trent; "that shall make no difference. I'll take you with the rest,
only of course you get no fifteen pound."

The impudence was so extreme and startling that all breathed deep, and Goddedaal raised up
his face and looked his superior sternly in the eye.

But Mac was more articulate. "And you're what ye call a British sayman, I suppose? the sorrow
in your guts!" he cried.

"One more such word, and I clap you in irons!" said Trent, rising gleefully at the face of
opposition.

"And where would I be the while you were doin' ut?" asked Mac. "After you and your rigging,
too! Ye ould puggy, ye haven't the civility of a bug, and I'll learn ye some."

His voice did not even rise as he uttered the threat; no man present, Trent least of all, expected
that which followed. The Irishman's hand rose suddenly from below the table, an open clasp-knife
balanced on the palm; there was a movement swift as conjuring; Trent started half to his feet,
turning a little as he rose so as to escape the table, and the movement was his bane. The missile
struck him in the jugular; he fell forward, and his blood flowed among the dishes on the cloth.

The suddenness of the attack and the catastrophe, the instant change from peace to war, and
from life to death, held all men spellbound. Yet a moment they sat about the table staring
open-mouthed upon the prostrate captain and the flowing blood. The next, Goddedaal had leaped
to his feet, caught up the stool on which he had been sitting, and swung it high in air, a
man transfigured, roaring (as he stood) so that men's ears were stunned with it. There was
no thought of battle in the Currency Lasses; none drew his weapon; all huddled helplessly from
before the face of the baresark Scandinavian. His first blow sent Mac to ground with a broken
arm. His second dashed out the brains of Hemstead. He turned from one to another, menacing
and trumpeting like a wounded elephant, exulting in his rage. But there was no counsel, no
light of reason, in that ecstasy of battle; and he shied from the pursuit of victory to hail
fresh blows upon the supine Hemstead, so that the stool was shattered and the cabin rang with
their violence. The sight of that post-mortem cruelty recalled Carthew to the life of instinct,
and his revolver was in hand and he had aimed and fired before he knew. The ear-bursting sound
of the report was accompanied by a yell of pain; the colossus paused, swayed, tottered, and
fell headlong on the body of his victim.

In the instant silence that succeeded, the sound of feet pounding on deck and in the companion
leaped into hearing; and a face, that of the sailor Holdorsen, appeared below the bulkheads
in the cabin doorway. Carthew shattered it with a second shot, for he was a marksman.

"Pistols!" he cried, and charged at the companion, Wicks at his heels, Tommy and Amalu following.
They trod the body of Holdorsen under foot, and flew upstairs and forth into the dusky blaze
of a sunset red as blood. The numbers were still equal, but the Flying Scuds dreamed not of
defence, and fled with one accord for the forecastle scuttle. Brown was first in flight; he
disappeared below unscathed; the Chinaman followed head-foremost with a ball in his side; and
the others shinned into the rigging.

A fierce composure settled upon Wicks and Carthew, their fighting second wind. They posted
Tommy at the fore and Amalu at the main to guard the masts and shrouds, and going themselves
into the waist, poured out a box of cartridges on deck and filled the chambers. The poor devils
aloft bleated aloud for mercy. But the hour of any mercy was gone by; the cup was brewed and
must be drunken to the dregs; since so many had fallen all must fall. The light was bad, the
cheap revolvers fouled and carried wild, the screaming wretches were swift to flatten themselves
against the masts and yards, or find a momentary refuge in the hanging sails. The fell business
took long, but it was done at last. Hardy the Londoner was shot on the fore-royal yard, and
hung horribly suspended in the brails. Wallen, the other, had his jaw broken on the maintop-gallant
crosstrees, and exposed himself, shrieking, till a second shot dropped him on the deck.

This had been bad enough, but worse remained behind. There was still Brown in the forepeak.
Tommy, with a sudden clamour of weeping, begged for his life. "One man can't hurt us," he sobbed.
"We can't go on with this. I spoke to him at dinner. He's an awful decent little cad. It can't
be done. Nobody can go into that place and murder him. It's too damned wicked."

The sound of his supplications was perhaps audible to the unfortunate below.

"One left and we all hang," said Wicks. "Brown must go the same road." The big man was deadly
white and trembled like an aspen; and he had no sooner finished speaking than he went to the
ship's side and vomited.

"We can never do it if we wait," said Carthew. "Now or never," and he marched towards the scuttle.

"No, no, no!" wailed Tommy, clutching at his jacket.

But Carthew flung him off, and stepped down the ladder, his heart rising with disgust and shame.
The Chinaman lay on the floor, still groaning; the place was pitch dark.

"Brown!" cried Carthew; "Brown, where are you?"

His heart smote him for the treacherous apostrophe, but no answer came.

He groped in the bunks: they were all empty. Then he moved towards the forepeak, which was
hampered with coils of rope and spare chandlery in general.

"Brown!" he said again.

"Here, sir," answered a shaking voice; and the poor invisible caitiff called on him by name,
and poured forth out of the darkness an endless, garrulous appeal for mercy. A sense of danger,
of daring, had alone nerved Carthew to enter the forecastle; and here was the enemy crying
and pleading like a frightened child. His obsequious "Here, sir," his horrid fluency of obtestation,
made the murder tenfold more revolting. Twice Carthew raised the pistol, once he pressed the
trigger (or thought he did) with all his might, but no explosion followed; and with that the
lees of his courage ran quite out, and he turned and fled from before his victim.

Wicks sat on the fore hatch, raised the face of a man of seventy, and looked a wordless question.
Carthew shook his head. With such composure as a man displays marching towards the gallows,
Wicks arose, walked to the scuttle, and went down. Brown thought it was Carthew returning,
and discovered himself, half-crawling from his shelter, with another incoherent burst of pleading.
Wicks emptied his revolver at the voice, which broke into mouse-like whimperings and groans.
Silence succeeded, and the murderer ran on deck like one possessed.

The other three were now all gathered on the fore hatch, and Wicks took his place beside them
without question asked or answered. They sat close like children in the dark, and shook each
other with their shaking. The dusk continued to fall; and there was no sound but the beating
of the surf and the occasional hiccup of a sob from Tommy Hadden.

"God, if there was another ship!" cried Carthew of a sudden.

Wicks started and looked aloft with the trick of all seamen, and shuddered as he saw the hanging
figure on the royal-yard.

"If I went aloft, I'd fall," he said simply. "I'm done up."

It was Amalu who volunteered, climbed to the very truck, swept the fading horizon, and announced
nothing within sight.

"No odds," said Wicks. "We can't sleep...."

"Sleep!" echoed Carthew; and it seemed as if the whole of Shakespeare's Macbeth thundered at
the gallop through his mind.

"Well, then, we can't sit and chitter here," said Wicks, "till we've cleaned the ship; and
I can't turn to till I've had gin, and the gin's in the cabin, and who's to fetch it?"

"I will," said Carthew, "if any one has matches."

Amalu passed him a box, and he went aft and down the companion and into the cabin, stumbling
upon bodies. Then he struck a match, and his looks fell upon two living eyes.

"Well?" asked Mac, for it was he who still survived in that shambles of a cabin.

"It's done; they're all dead," answered Carthew.

"Christ!" said the Irishman, and fainted.

The gin was found in the dead captain's cabin; it was brought on deck, and all hands had a
dram, and attacked their further task. The night was come, the moon would not be up for hours;
a lamp was set on the main hatch to light Amalu as he washed down decks; and the galley lantern
was taken to guide the others in their graveyard business. Holdorsen, Hemstead, Trent, and
Goddedaal were first disposed of, the last still breathing as he went over the side; Wallen
followed; and then Wicks, steadied by the gin, went aloft with the boathook and succeeded in
dislodging Hardy. The Chinaman was their last task; he seemed to be light-headed, talked aloud
in his unknown language as they brought him up, and it was only with the splash of his sinking
body that the gibberish ceased. Brown, by common consent, was left alone. Flesh and blood could
go no further.

All this time they had been drinking undiluted gin like water; three bottles stood broached
in different quarters; and none passed without a gulp. Tommy collapsed against the mainmast;
Wicks fell on his face on the poop ladder and moved no more; Amalu had vanished unobserved.
Carthew was the last afoot: he stood swaying at the break of the poop, and the lantern, which
he still carried, swung with his movement. His head hummed; it swarmed with broken thoughts;
memory of that day's abominations flared up and died down within him like the light of a lamp
in a strong draught. And then he had a drunkard's inspiration.

"There must be no more of this," he thought, and stumbled once more below.

The absence of Holdorsen's body brought him to a stand. He stood and stared at the empty floor,
and then remembered and smiled. From the captain's room he took the open case with one dozen
and three bottles of gin, put the lantern inside, and walked precariously forth. Mac was once
more conscious, his eyes haggard, his face drawn with pain and flushed with fever; and Carthew
remembered he had never been seen to, had lain there helpless, and was so to lie all night,
injured, perhaps dying. But it was now too late; reason had now fled from that silent ship.
If Carthew could get on deck again, it was as much as he could hope; and casting on the unfortunate
a glance of pity, the tragic drunkard shouldered his way up the companion, dropped the case
overboard, and fell in the scuppers helpless.

CHAPTER XXV

A BAD BARGAIN

With the first colour in the east, Carthew awoke and sat up. A while he gazed at the scroll
of the morning bank and the spars and hanging canvas of the brig, like a man who wakes in a
strange bed, with a child's simplicity of wonder. He wondered above all what ailed him, what
he had lost, what disfavour had been done him, which he knew he should resent, yet had forgotten.
And then, like a river bursting through a dam, the truth rolled on him its instantaneous volume:
his memory teemed with speech and pictures that he should never again forget; and he sprang
to his feet, stood a moment hand to brow, and began to walk violently to and fro by the companion.
As he walked he wrung his hands. "God--God--God," he kept saying, with no thought of prayer,
uttering a mere voice of agony.

The time may have been long or short, it was perhaps minutes, perhaps only seconds, ere he
awoke to find himself observed, and saw the captain sitting up and watching him over the break
of the poop, a strange blindness as of fever in his eyes, a haggard knot of corrugations on
his brow. Cain saw himself in a mirror. For a flash they looked upon each other, and then glanced
guiltily aside; and Carthew fled from the eye of his accomplice, and stood leaning on the taffrail.

An hour went by, while the day came brighter, and the sun rose and drank up the clouds: an
hour of silence in the ship, an hour of agony beyond narration for the sufferers. Brown's gabbling
prayers, the cries of the sailors in the rigging, strains of the dead Hemstead's minstrelsy,
ran together in Carthew's mind with sickening iteration. He neither acquitted nor condemned
himself: he did not think he suffered. In the bright water into which he stared, the pictures
changed and were repeated: the baresark rage of Goddedaal; the blood-red light of the sunset
into which they had run forth; the face of the babbling Chinaman as they cast him over; the
face of the captain, seen a moment since, as he awoke from drunkenness into remorse. And time
passed, and the sun swam higher, and his torment was not abated.

Then were fulfilled many sayings, and the weakest of these condemned brought relief and healing
to the others. Amalu the drudge awoke (like the rest) to sickness of body and distress of mind;
but the habit of obedience ruled in that simple spirit, and, appalled to be so late, he went
direct into the galley, kindled the fire, and began to get breakfast. At the rattle of dishes,
the snapping of the fire, and the thin smoke that went up straight into the air, the spell
was lifted. The condemned felt once more the good dry land of habit under foot; they touched
again the familiar guide-ropes of sanity; they were restored to a sense of the blessed revolution
and return of all things earthly. The captain drew a bucket of water and began to bathe. Tommy
sat up, watched him a while, and slowly followed his example; and Carthew, remembering his
last thoughts of the night before, hastened to the cabin.

Mac was awake; perhaps had not slept. Over his head Goddedaal's canary twittered shrilly from
its cage.

"How are you?" asked Carthew.

"Me arrum's broke," returned Mac; "but I can stand that. It's this place I can't aboide. I
was coming on deck anyway."

"Stay where you are, though," said Carthew. "It's deadly hot above, and there's no wind. I'll
wash out this----" and he paused, seeking a word and not finding one for the grisly foulness
of the cabin.

"Faith, I'll be obloiged to ye, then," replied the Irishman. He spoke mild and meek, like a
sick child with its mother. There was no violence in the violent man; and as Carthew fetched
a bucket and swab and the steward's sponge, and began to cleanse the field of battle, he alternately
watched him or shut his eyes and sighed like a man near fainting. "I have to ask all your pardons,"
he began again presently, "and the more shame to me as I got ye into trouble and couldn't do
nothing when it came. Ye saved me life, sir; ye're a clane shot."

"For God's sake, don't talk of it!" cried Carthew. "It can't be talked of; you don't know what
it was. It was nothing down here; they fought. On deck--O, my God!" And Carthew, with the bloody
sponge pressed to his face, struggled a moment with hysteria.

"Kape cool, Mr. Cart'ew. It's done now," said Mac; "and ye may bless God ye're not in pain,
and helpless in the bargain."

There was no more said by one or other, and the cabin was pretty well cleansed when a stroke
on the ship's bell summoned Carthew to breakfast. Tommy had been busy in the meanwhile; he
had hauled the whaleboat close aboard, and already lowered into it a small keg of beef that
he found ready broached beside the galley door; it was plain he had but the one idea--to escape.

"We have a shipful of stores to draw upon," he said. "Well, what are we staying for? Let's
get off at once for Hawaii. I've begun preparing already."

"Mac has his arm broken," observed Carthew; "how would he stand the voyage?"

"A broken arm?" repeated the captain. "That all? I'll set it after breakfast. I thought he
was dead like the rest. That madman hit out like----" and there, at the evocation of the battle,
his voice ceased and the talk died with it.

After breakfast the three white men went down into the cabin.

"I've come to set your arm," said the captain.

"I beg your pardon, captain," replied Mac; "but the firrst thing ye got to do is to get this
ship to sea. We'll talk of me arrum after that."

"O, there's no such blooming hurry," returned Wicks.

"When the next ship sails in ye'll tell me stories!" retorted Mac.

"But there's nothing so unlikely in the world," objected Carthew.

"Don't be deceivin' yourself," said Mac. "If ye want a ship, divil a one'll look near ye in
six year; but if ye don't, ye may take my word for ut, we'll have a squadron layin' here."

