Consisting of 30 treatises, it is the only known work of al-Zahrāwī and it brought him high
prestige in the western world.

Here we are concerned only with his last treatise, on surgery. With its many drawings of surgical
instruments, intended for the instruction of apprentices, its descriptions of formulas and
medicinal preparations, and its lucid observations on surgical procedures, this treatise is
perhaps the oldest of its kind.

Scholars today have available a translation of the text and reproductions of the drawings,
but many of the latter are greatly modified from the originals.

This study reproduces examples of al-Zahrāwī’s original illustrations, compares some with early
drawings based on them, and comments on passages in the treatise of interest to students of
pharmacy and medical therapy.

THE INTRODUCTION OF THE WRITINGS of Abū al-Qāsim Khalaf ibn ʻAbbās al-Zahrāwī--better known
as Abulcasis (d. ca. 1013)--to Western Europe was through the Latin translation of his surgical
treatise (maqālah) by Gerard of Cremona (d. 1187).[1] The response to this treatise, thereafter,
was much greater than the attention paid to the surgery of any of the three renowned physicians
of the Eastern Caliphate: al-Rāzī (Latin, Rhazes, d. ca. 925), the greatest clinician in Arabic
medicine; al-Majūsī (Haly Abbās, d. 994), the author of the encyclopedic medical work, al-Malakī;[2]
and Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna, 980-1037), the author of the famous al-Qānūn fī al-Ṭibb, a codification
of the whole of medical knowledge. Because of the widespread dissemination of this Latin version
in medieval Europe beginning with the latter part of the 12th century, al-Zahrāwī attained
more prestige in the West than he did in Arabic Spain, his native country, or in any other
part of the Islamic world.[3]

The fame attached to this surgical treatise, the 30th and last in al-Zahrāwī’s encyclopedic
work al-Taṣrīf Liman ‘Ajiza ‘an al-Ta’līf, is founded on certain merits. The text is characterized
by lucidity, careful description, and a touch of original observation of the surgical operations
to which the treatise as a whole is devoted.[4] Al-Zahrāwī furnishes his own drawings of the
surgical and dental instruments he used, devised, or recommended for a more efficient performance.
The illustrations were intended to provide instructional material for apprentices--whom al-Zahrāwī
calls his children--as well as for the benefit of those who would read the work later on.[5]
The treatise is probably the oldest one known today that contains such instructive surgical
illustrations and text.[6]

This surgical treatise has been investigated, translated, and commented upon by eminent historians
of medicine and surgery to whose works I shall refer in this article. However, the pharmaceutic
and therapeutic details of the treatise have been somewhat overlooked.

As to the various illustrations of the surgical instruments (over 200 figures in all), an almost
complete representation of samples has been introduced by Channing,[7] Leclerc,[8] Gurlt,[9]
Sudhoff,[10] and others. Nevertheless, a good number of the reproduced drawings are greatly
modified, most likely having been influenced by earlier illustrations in several Latin and
vernacular versions of the treatise.[11] This becomes clearer on comparison with seven Arabic
manuscripts that have not been fully examined by Western scholars before and that--in several
instances--show more authentic drawings of al-Zahrāwī’s surgical instruments than any heretofore
published.[12]

This article therefore, is an attempt to present a sample of these illustrations with brief
comments regarding certain figures and passages of interest to pharmacy and medical therapy.

With much gratitude I express my indebtedness to Prof. G. Folch Jou of Madrid, to Dr. A. Süheyl
Ünver and Mr. H. Dener of Istanbul, and to the librarians of the depository institutions for
their cooperation in the reproduction of the manuscripts on microfilm.

Al-Zahrāwī frequently introduces his treatises with brief instructive and sometimes informative
preludes. However, in launching the last treatise of al-Taṣrīf he expounded in a most interesting
and illuminating manner the status of surgery during his time. He also explains the reasons
that forced him to write on this topic and why he wished to include, as he did, precautions,
advice, instructional notes, and beautifully illustrated surgical drawings. For example, the
prelude to the treatise mentions four incidents that he witnessed, all ending with tragic results
because of the ignorance of physicians who attempted to operate on patients without the proper
training in anatomy and surgical manipulation. "For if one does not have the knowledge of anatomy,"
al-Zahrāwī protests, then "... he is apt to fall in errors that lead to death as I have seen
it happen to many."[13]

Al-Zahrāwī divides his surgical treatise into three sections (abwāb). In the first section
(56 chapters)[14] he elaborates upon the uses and disadvantages of cautery in general. And
on the ground that "fire touches only the ailing part ... without causing much damage to surrounding
area," as caustic medicine does, he prefers cautery by fire (al-kay bi al-nār) to cautery by
medicine (bi al-dawā).[15] This, he adds, "became clear to us through lifelong experience,
diligent practice, and thorough investigations of facts."[16]

He also proposes that instruments made of iron are more practical in many ways than those made
of gold, because often, when gold instruments are put in fire, they either are not heated enough
or are overheated, causing the gold to melt.

Al-Zahrāwī gently refutes the superstition that cautery is "good only in springtime," and states
that "under the right conditions of the body’s humors it could be used in all seasons."[17]
Although he recommends cautery rather highly, he never minimizes the importance of treatment
by drugs. Actually, he encourages the use of drugs, before, with, and after cauterization.[18]
For example, in chapter 16 on "the cauterization of eyelid when its hair grows reversedly into
the eye," he recommends treatment by cautery and by medicine. In cautery, the area where fire
is to be placed is marked with ink in the shape of a myrtle leaf. In drug treatment, the caustic
medicine is applied to the eyelid over a paper in the shape of a myrtle leaf (fig. 2).

In chapter 17 the author refers to an ancient method regarding cautery of the fistula in the
inner corner of the eye. After incising the fistula, one "dirham" (derived from the Greek "drachma,"
which is equal to about 2.97 grams)[19] of melted lead is poured into it through a fine funnel
used for cauterization (fig. 3).

In like manner, al-Zahrāwī discusses cautery of the stomach and the "cold liver" in chapters
26 and 27, respectively. The drawings therein represent shapes of the burns on the skin (fig.
4) and marks of ink to be drawn beneath the cartilage of the ribs (fig. 5) for the purpose
of spotting the area of operation. Here also he describes carefully and clearly the methods
of applying cautery and the types, position, and number of tools employed in each case. He
likewise depicts (in chapter 45) instruments used in the treatment of hernia (fig. 6).

The second section (bāb), with about 99 chapters,[20] deals with incision, puncturing, venesection,
cupping, surgery on abscesses, and the withdrawal of arrows from the body. Al-Zahrāwī warns
that ignorance in such operations may lead to damage of an artery or vein, causing loss of
blood "by which life is sustained."[21] Moreover, needle and thread (more than one kind is
mentioned) for the stitching of wounds are repeatedly recommended.

According to al-Zahrāwī, foreign bodies that lodge in the ear (chapter 6) are of four origins:
(1) "mineral stones" or substances resembling mineral stones such as iron and glass; (2) plant
seeds (chick-peas and beans); (3) liquids, such as water and vinegar; and (4) animals, such
as fleas. Several instruments are recommended for the removal of such foreign bodies--fine
tweezers shaped like a dropper (fig. 7), a syringe with plunger-pump, and a tube made of silver
or copper (fig. 8). Also of interest to pharmacy and therapy is the advice in regard to the
use of lubricants to be applied before administering these fine instruments into the body’s
cavities.

Chapter 24 is concerned with the treatment of the polypus that grows in the nose. The various
kinds (including cancer growth), shapes, and colors of this type tumor and its treatment by
surgery or medicine are described. A hollowed nose-dropper made of metal in the shape of a
small kerosene lamp[22] is suggested (fig. 9). The dropper is held by its handle while its
contents are heated before use. Applying heat to nose drops was probably proposed because it
serves two purposes: it allows easier flow of the "duhn," or the fatty substance used, and
it raises the temperature of the drops to that of the body.

In his discussion on dental hygiene,[23] al-Zahrāwī describes scrapers and dental forceps for
teeth cleaning and extraction (figs. 10, 11) and brings in a few points of historical interest.[24]
He warns of the common error of extracting the adjacent healthy tooth instead of the ailing
one due to the patient’s sense deception. For a gargle he prescribes salt water, vinegar, and
wine (sharāb). To stop hemorrhage he used blue vitriol (al-zāj)--copper sulfate in our modern
terminology.

In chapter 33 al-Zahrāwī discusses bridge-making for the consolidation of shaky teeth (fig.
12). He prefers the use of stable gold over silver which, he says, putrifies and rots in a
short time. In a rational approach, he also suggests that the fallen tooth itself, or a similar
one shaped out of a cow’s bone, be installed and connected with adjacent, stable teeth by a bridge.

Now, turning to chapter 36, we find al-Zahrāwī describing a knife-thin tongue depressor (fig.
13) that he used to facilitate the examination of inflamed tonsils and other swellings of the
throat; it was made of silver or copper. And in chapter 37 (chapter 34 in Bes. 503), he describes
the excision of an inflamed uvula by surgery. In the same chapter, he also mentions the use
of instruments made of steel. Of pharmaceutical interest is the following free translation
of the formula he prescribes "as a milder treatment by fumigation ... to be resorted to only
when the swelling is subsiding":[25]

  Take pennyroyal [Mentha pulegium Linn.], absinthe
  [Artemisia maritima Linn.], thyme, rue, hyssop, camomile,
  abrotanum [Artemisia abrotanum Linn.], and other similar
  herbs. Put all in a casserole and cover them with vinegar.
  Then close tightly with clay [lutum-sapientiae]--except
  for a small hole in the middle of the cover--and boil.
  Connect one end of a hollowed instrument, a crude form of an
  inhaler [fig. 14], with the hole in the cover and insert the
  other end, which contains the nozzle, into the patient’s
  mouth, allowing the vapor to rise up to the uvula. And if
  you are not able to secure this instrument, take a straw and
  attach its end to an egg-shell. The egg-shell will prevent
  burns in the patient’s mouth that might be caused by the
  heated vapor.

Al-Zahrāwī repeats in chapter 53, on cancer, what Greek physicians had said earlier, that cancer
could be removed by surgery only at its first stage and when found in a removable part of the
body, such as the breast. Therefore, he confesses that neither he nor any one else he knew
of ever applied surgery with success on advanced cancer.[26]

Of special interest in chapter 59 is the metallic "syringe" (fig. 15) used to inject medicinal
solutions into the bladder: "The hollow passage [of the syringe] should be exactly equal to
the plunger it contains and no more, so that when such fluids from an excess of humors are
aspirated they will be drawn out, and likewise when the solutions are injected they will be
pushed in easily." Such description of the use of a "bladder syringe" in the late 10th century
clearly points to the practical and interesting approach to surgery in al-Taṣrīf. Moreover,
his description of the removal of a stone from the bladder--an operation we now call lithotomy--is
considered a contribution to bladder surgery.

One of the earliest recorded operations for the extractions of two dead fetuses from the womb
is clearly described in chapter 76. The account of this case shows not only al-Zahrāwī’s intelligent
approach as a shrewd observer but also his clinical and surgical ability.

Drawings of bulb-syringe instruments used for administering enemas in ailments of the rectum
and for the treatment of diarrhea and colic are depicted in chapter 83. The text describes
several kinds of syringes made of silver, porcelain, and copper in various sizes (fig. 16).
Of particular interest is an illustration of a syringe, especially recommended for children,
to which a piece of leather (jildah) is attached (fig. 17). This instrument is a precursor
of our modern bulb syringe.

In chapter 84 al-Zahrāwī turns to the treatment of various wounds. He prescribes the following
powder formula for use: "Take olibanum [frankincense] and dragon’s blood,[27] two parts of
each, and three parts of slaked or unslaked lime. Pound them well, pass through a sieve and
apply the powder to the wound." In cases of damaged blood vessels, he tied the arteries by
ligature, a practice of which he was a pioneer. In another chapter he describes four methods
for suturing the intestines.

Al-Zahrāwī, being associated with war casualties and writing his treatise about the end of
the 10th century, no doubt had the experience of dealing with cases involving injuries caused
by arrows. The text in chapter 94 discloses his observations in elaborate investigations regarding
the extraction of various kinds of arrows from the body.[28] Accordingly, several kinds of
hooks and forceps for removing arrows are described and depicted in the treatise (see fig.
18). Al-Zahrāwī’s mention of Turkish bows and arrows led Freind to believe, erroneously, that
the author of the treatise must have lived in the 12th century,[29] notwithstanding the fact
that Turkish bows and arrows were in common use in the latter part of the 10th century.

The next chapter, on cupping, mentions the use of cups made of horns, wood, copper, or glass,
according to circumstances and the availability of material. The methods of treatment are divided
into two kinds: dry cupping, with or without fire, and wet cupping (see fig. 19). He prescribes
ointments and aromatic and medicated waters to be applied before and after cupping to facilitate
healing. Only when cupping is not possible, as on the nose, fingers, and similar parts of the
human body, does he propose the use of leeches for treatment.[30] Evidently this is an indication
that he did not, as generally supposed, encourage the widespread use of leeches.

The third and final section, of 35 chapters, deals with the reduction, luxation, and treatment
of injured bones, including fracture of the pelvis. The advices and warnings in the prelude
of this section appear to repeat some of al-Zahrāwī’s sayings that had been covered in his
previous introductions. The text, however, presents many facets of interest to the health professions.
It elaborates upon the application of various forms of bandages and plasters in a variety of
operations. Al-Zahrāwī’s detailed description relating to fractures of bones is a fine anatomical
document of historical interest. He illustrates and describes special methods for tying injured
or broken bones, and he suggests that bandages made of soft linen be less and less tight as
distance increases from the injured place (chapter 1). For the protection of areas adjacent
to the injured part against contact with edges of splints he advocates padding with soft gauze
and carded wool. In some cases, to guard against swelling, he preferred a delay of one or more
days in applying bandages over splints. Al-Zahrāwī also devised and depicted many kinds and
shapes of splints for use in simple and compound fractures of the head, shoulders, arms, fingers,
etc. (see fig. 20). For example, in discussing the reduction of the humerus, he recommends
a splint consisting of a smooth, thin stick bent in the shape of a bow with two strings, each
attached to one end of the stick (fig. 21). The injured bone is then placed in the middle of
the bent splint for reduction while the patient is seated on a chair. Tying is applied only
when there is no "hot" swelling (chapter 11). One of the remarkable observations made in this
section is the description of the paralysis caused by fracture of the spine.

Of interest to historians of medical therapy and pharmacy are the recipes for poultices that
al-Zahrāwī recommends for use over fractured bones. For example, he gives the following recipe
for one such poultice: "Take the so-called 'mill’s dust' [ghubār al-rahā], which is the part
of the wheat flour that clings to the walls of the mill during grinding [lubāb al-daqīq], and,
without sifting away the bran, knead with white-of-egg to a medium consistency, and apply."
Another, more elaborate, recipe calls for 10 dirhams each of the roots of wild pomegranate
[Glossostemon bruguieri D.C.], chickling vetch [the grass pea, Lathymus sativus], and white
marshmallow; 5 dirhams each of myrrh and aloes; 6 dirhams of white gum Arabic [Acacia]; and
20 dirhams of bole [friable earthy clay consisting largely of hydrous silicates of aluminum
and magnesium, usually colored red because of impurities of iron oxide]. Procedure was to pound
all ingredients gently, pass them through a sieve, and knead with water or white-of-egg (chapter
1).

The question arises as to whether al-Zahrāwī did any human dissection. The answer is uncertain
because our knowledge of his life is fragmentary. However, he gives no clue to the dissection
of humans in any of the 30 treatises of al-Taṣrīf--his only known writings--and there is no
evidence that he practiced it in secret. His upright attitude as a Muslim who repeatedly emphasized
his adherence to his faith suggests that he relied completely on animal dissection and the
writings of his Greek-Roman and Islamic predecessors. Physicians in both the Islamic domain
and in Christendom for many centuries were hostile to the idea of human dissection for any
purpose because of their traditional socio-religious convictions, considering it an unethical
and undignified practice. Perhaps it has been al-Zahrāwī’s original contributions to surgery,
his enthusiasm in emphasizing the value of anatomical knowledge, and his recognition of the
necessity that only well-educated, well-trained doctors should perform surgery that have led
some medical historians to wonder whether he did human dissection at some time in his long
years of experience.

In Summary

The few examples of illustrations of surgical instruments given here indicate that the Arabic
manuscripts, in general, have preserved the original, oriental, artistic features of the drawings
in a way that has been overlooked in Latin and vernacular versions of al-Taṣrīf.

In presenting his personal observations and original ideas on surgery late in life, al-Zahrāwī,
for the most part, was inspired by a thorough acquaintance with Greek and Arabic medical literature
supplemented by lifelong intelligent observation and experience.

Through its descriptions and illustrations, the surgical treatise of al-Zahrāwī very likely
played a significant role in the designing of improved surgical instruments in the Middle Ages.
Also, the treatise no doubt promoted the development of improved surgical techniques in Islam
and, through its translations, promoted these techniques to an even greater extent in the West,
a fact that justifies the fame of this treatise as the highest expression of the development
of surgery in Arabic Spain--a treatise whose influence continued to the Renaissance. It contributed
in no small measure to the idea of equipping learned and well-trained surgeons with the best
surgical tools and techniques of the time; moreover, it encouraged the invention of new instruments
to meet differing circumstances and special conditions. These tools no doubt greatly facilitated
the work of the surgeon.

Throughout the text of al-Taṣrīf al-Zahrāwī gave careful attention to the importance of pharmaceutical
preparations in the healing art, including cases requiring surgery.

  [1] George Sarton, Introduction to the History of
  Science, Baltimore, 1927, vol. 1, p. 681.

  [2] Mohammad S. Abu Ganima, in Abul-Kasim ein Forscher der
  Arabischen Medizin, Berlin, 1929, suggested that
  description of operations in al-Majūsī’s surgery is clearer
  than that in al-Zahrāwī’s--a statement which does not seem
  acceptable.

  [3] Max Neuburger, Geschichte der Medizin, Stuttgart,
  1911, vol. 2, pt. 1, pp. 178-179.

  [4] Heinrich Haeser, Lehrbuch der Geschichte der Medizin
  und der epidemischen Krankheiten, Jena, 1875, vol. 1, pp.
  578-584; and Donald Campbell, Arabian Medicine and Its
  Influence on the Middle Ages, London, 1926, vol. 1, p. 88.

  [5] See the prelude to the treatise.

  [6] Fielding H. Garrison (An Introduction of the History of
  Medicine, ed. 4, rev., Philadelphia, 1929, p. 132), states,
  in reference to "Sudhoff and others," that many drawings
  earlier than those of al-Zahrāwī have been discovered in
  medieval manuscripts. However, Garrison overlooked the fact
  that al-Zahrāwī’s surgical illustrations were mainly
  depicted for instructional purposes--a unique approach. It
  should be noted also that al-Zahrāwī died almost a century
  earlier than Garrison thought. See also Martin S. Spink,
  "Arabian Gynaecological, Obstetrical and Genito-Urinary
  Practice Illustrated from Albucasis," Proceedings of the
  Royal Society of Medicine, 1937, vol. 30, p. 654.

  [7] Johannis Channing, Albucasis de Chirurgia. Arabice et
  Latine, Oxford, 1778, 2 vols. (hereinafter referred to as
  Channing, Albucasis). The text has many errors in spelling
  and grammar, but Leclerc went too far in criticizing this
  edition, which has many merits. Moreover, the surgical
  illustrations (reproduced from the Huntington and Marsh
  manuscripts of the Bodleian Library) in Channing’s edition
  are of special interest.

  [8] Lucien Leclerc, La Chirurgie d’Abulcasis, Paris, 1861
  (hereinafter referred to as Leclerc, Abulcasis). This
  excellent French version was first published in a series of
  articles in Gazette Médicale de l’Algérie, and seems
  influenced by Channing’s edition more than Leclerc admits.
  Leclerc consulted several Arabic copies of the treatise as
  well as Latin and vernacular translations, but only a few of
  these Arabic manuscripts are considered complete. The Arabic
  manuscripts studied for the present article are not the same
  as those used by Leclerc. See also Leclerc’s monumental
  work, Histoire de la Médecine Arabe, Paris, 1876, vol. 1,
  pp. 453-457.

  [9] Ernst Gurlt, Geschichte der Chirurgie und ihrer
  Ausübung Volkschirurgie-Alterthum-Mittelalter-Renaissance,
  Berlin, 1898, vol. 1, pp. 620-649, with more than 100
  figures. In the text and illustrations, Gurlt relied upon
  Leclerc’s translation and modified drawings of the surgical
  instruments; nevertheless, he presents a brief, systematic
  study--probably the best so far--of the entire treatise.

  [10] Karl Sudhoff, Beiträge zur Geschichte der Chirurgie im
  Mittelalter, Leipzig, 1918 (hereinafter referred to as
  Sudhoff, Chirurgie), vol. 2, pp. 16-84, with a few plates.
  Although Sudhoff consulted the fragmentary Arabic manuscript
  indexed as "Cod. Arab. 1989" in Gotha, Germany, he relied
  mainly upon Latin versions of the treatise and the
  illustrations contained in them.

  [11] See Leclerc, Abulcasis, in introduction.

  [12] The seven Arabic manuscripts are indexed as "Berlin MS.
  Or. fol. 91," temporarily at Universitätsbibliothek
  Tübingen, in Germany; "Escorial MS. Arabe No. 876," at
  Biblioteca del Monasterio de San Lorenzo el Real de El
  Escorial, in Spain; "Wien MS. Cod. N.F. 476 A.," at
  Oesterreichische Nationalbibliothek, in Vienna; and "Ali
  Emiri Arabi No. 2854," "Beşir Ağa Nos. 502 and 503," and
  "Veliyyudin No. 2491," all at Süleymaniye Umumi Kütüphanesi
  Müdürlüğü, in Istanbul. Hereinafter these manuscripts are
  referred to, respectively, as Tüb. MS. 91; Esc. 876; Wien
  476 A; Ali 2854; Bes. 502; Bes. 503; and Vel. 2491. The
  Smithsonian Institution recently obtained a microfilm copy
  of Bankipore Manuscript No. 17 from the Khuda Bakhsh O. P.
  Library, Patna (Bihar), India. This manuscript, containing
  only the 30th treatise of al-Taṣrīf, was copied in 1189;
  therefore, it is the earliest dated Arabic manuscript of the
  surgical treatise known to exist. The surgical illustrations
  therein add weight to the belief that the Arabic manuscripts
  show more originality in the drawings than do the later
  copied versions, which often were inaccurate and possibly
  distorted. About ten other illustrations from the Arabic
  manuscript in Istanbul indexed as "Topkapi MS. No. 1990"
  (which contains 215 beautifully illustrated figures) were
  presented by A. S. Ünver and Hüseyin Usman in an extract
  titled "Meşhur Arab Cerrahi Elbülkasimi Zehravi ve onum
  Kitabül Cerrahiyesi," Istanbul, 1935. See also Ünver,
  Şerefeddin Sabuncuoğlu: Kitabül Cerrahiyei Illhaniye,
  Istanbul, 1939, pp. [5]-7.

  [13] See introduction to the treatise; for example, Bes.
  502, fol. 522v-523v and Vel. 2491, fol. 104r-105v. See also
  K. P. J. Sprengel, Versuch einer pragmatischen Geschichte
  der Arzneikunde, Halle, 1823, vol. 2, pp. 449-451. George
  J. Fisher, in "Abul-Casem Chalaf Ibn Abbas al-Zahrāwī,
  Commonly Called Albucasis," Annals of Anatomy and Surgery,
  July-December, 1883, vol. 8, pp. 24-25, gives a translation
  of only the first part of the introduction.

  [14] There are 56 chapters listed in almost all manuscripts
  and commentary works I checked except Tüb. MS. 91 and Esc.
  876, where only 55 chapters are listed.

  [15] Al-Zahrāwī mentions several caustic medicines used in
  cautery, among which are garlic, mustard, melted lead,
  slaked or unslaked lime with or without "common" soap,
  Thapsia (Ruta graveolens Linn.), and juice of the Oriental
  cashew nut (Senecarpus anacardium Linn.).

  [16] Vel. 2491, fol. 106; Bes. 502, fol. 523r-524v.

  [17] Al-Zahrāwī criticizes those who interpret the saying
  "cautery is the end of treatment" to mean that cauterization
  is the best and only conclusive treatment at the physician’s
  disposal. He points out that other treatments, such as
  drugs, should be resorted to first, and used until they
  prove of no avail; and he states that only after cautery
  proves to be the cure should it be considered the completion
  of medical treatment--"al-kay ākhir al-ṭibb." See Vel. 2491,
  fol. 106; and Bes. 502, fol. 524r-525v.

  [18] For healing, soothing, or emollient purposes,
  al-Zahwārī suggested medications, such as egg white, salt
  water (normal saline), sap of psyllium, several ointments,
  "duhn" of rose, and other "adhān" (plural of "duhn," the
  fatty or oily essences extracted from various substances
  through pharmaceutical processes).

  [19] For a more accurate estimate of the equivalence of
  "dirham" according to the area in which the measurement was
  taken, the reader may consult Walter Hinz, Islamische Masse
  und Gewichte umgerechnet ins metrische System, Leiden,
  1955, pt. 1, pp. 2-8; and George C. Miles, Early Arabic
  Glass Weights and Stamps, New York, 1948, p. 6.

  [20] The contents of several manuscripts (such as Ali 2854,
  Wien 476 A, Bes. 503, and Tüb. MS. 91) give different
  numbers.

  [21] See, for example, Tüb. MS. 91, fol. 45v; and Bes. 502,
  fol. 530v.

  [22] Sudhoff, op. cit. (footnote 10), p. 29, fig. 6.

  [23] For a more detailed and interesting discussion with
  beautiful illustrations included, the reader may consult Ch.
  Niel, "La Chirurgie Dentaire D’Abulcasis Comparée a celle
  des Maures du Trarza," Revue de Stematologie, April 1911,
  vol. 18, pp. [169]-180 and 222-229.

  [24] It is regrettable that Franz Rosenthal in his fine
  article "Bibliographical Notes on Medieval Muslim Dentistry"
  (Bulletin of the History of Medicine, 1960, vol. 34, pp.
  52-60) failed to refer to this or any other section of
  al-Zahrāwī’s work.

  [25] Bes. 502, fol. 538. See also Channing, Albucasis, pp.
  206-208. For the identification of the drugs and their
  botanical origins the author of the present paper consulted
  H. P. J. Renaud and Georges S. Colin, Tuḥfat al-Aḥbāb,
  Glossaire de la Matière Médicale Marocaine, Paris, 1934,
  pp. 133, 143, 193-194, and Max Meyerhof, Un Glossaire de
  Matière Médicale Composé par Maimonide, Cairo, 1940, pp.
  168-169.

  [26] Tüb. MS. 91, fol. 99v.

  [27] Dragon’s blood is a resin obtained from the scales
  covering the surface of the ripe fruits of "Daemonorops
  draco Blume" (Heber W. Youngken, Textbook of
  Pharmacognosy, ed. 6, Philadelphia, 1948, p. 175). See also
  Renaud and Colin, op. cit. (footnote 25), pp. 54-55.

  [28] Heinrich Frölich, "Abul-Kasem als Kriegschirurg,"
  Archiv für klinische Chirurgie, 1884, vol. 30, pp.
  365-376. This well-presented study was reviewed by Paul
  Schede in Centralblatt für Chirurgie, 1884, no. 38, pp.
  626-627.

  [29] Johannis Freind, The History of Physick, London,
  1726, vol. 2, p. 129.

  [30] In several manuscripts, the chapter on the use of
  leeches is the last one in the second section of the
  treatise.

