There never existed in this world a person in whose life there was a greater variety of incident
than in the life of Jesus. He passed through scenes of the most peculiar and diversified description,
to which we can find no parallel in the history of man, the effect of which no ordinary mind
could have borne. These were, in general, connected with that lowliness and debasement to which
he submitted for the benefit of our sinful race; but occasionally, as at his birth, his baptism,
and transfiguration, there burst forth some bright rays of glory from behind the dark cloud
of his humanity, which proved his possession of a nature that was divine.

It may have a good effect in strengthening our gratitude for the Saviour's mercy, to remember
that every complexion of circumstance was freely and voluntarily submitted to, not merely for
his own satisfaction or benefit, but principally for the good of man. Jesus never lost sight
of his representative character. He always remembered those whose cause he had espoused: and,
whether he was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, to be tempted of the devil--or into the
garden of Gethsemane, to sustain his more fierce and violent assaults--or to the mountain,
to put on for a season the habiliments of light and glory--his chief object and desire was
to effect the redemption, and to revive the hopes of weak and fallen man.

We are now supplied by the Holy Spirit with a very brief account of the transfiguration itself.
Before, however, we make any remark upon this description, or refer, as we desire to do, to
the uses which this transaction was intended to serve, we must direct our attention for a few
moments to the important preparation which the Saviour made for it. And here there are, perhaps,
many who may be disposed to ask, had there not been sufficient preparation already? had not
the Saviour endured much physical fatigue in accomplishing the wearisome ascent of the mountain?
and had not the time, the place, and the spectators, been carefully selected by himself? Let
it however be remembered, that in addition to all this, there was a necessary and absolutely
indispensable preliminary, not to be omitted even by the Son of God, and that was prayer. It
is said, by St. Luke, in the twenty-ninth verse of his ninth chapter, that "as he prayed, the
fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering." Let us learn
from this, that not all the labour, mental or physical, which we can possibly exert, can ever
bring us into the enjoyment of one momentary smile of God's countenance, if we neglect prayer.
We may diligently peruse the records of redeeming mercy which the sacred page of scripture
contains; we may place ourselves under the pastoral care of some faithful and devoted minister
of Jesus; we may enjoy the high advantage of intercourse and communion with many spiritually-minded
followers of the Saviour; yet, after all, we shall find no benefit from these distinguished
privileges if we neglect to pray. How many Christians there are, who often wish they had a
Luther for their minister, because they feel dissatisfied with their spiritual progress under
him to whose charge they may have been entrusted by the great Head of the church! And yet the
cause of this may be traced to their own want of constant and of earnest prayer. Prayer is
the key that unlocks the holy place where Jesus meets his people at the mercy-seat, to dispense
the gifts which have been purchased by his precious blood. And when the united petitions of
ministers and people ascend in an unceasing stream of sacred incense to a throne of grace,
blessings may be expected to descend in rich abundance on the church.

But perhaps it may be considered that we have digressed from our subject. We return, then,
to the circumstance which more immediately claims our attention. We are informed that Jesus
was praying when he was transfigured; nay, it is remarkable that St. Luke represents his special
object of ascending the mountain to have been in order to devote himself to this sacred engagement.
Prayer was as much the Saviour's duty, as it is the duty of any of his people. He had been
expressly commanded by his Father to ask of him to give him the heathen for his inheritance,
and the uttermost parts of the earth for his possession. All his works, whilst he was tabernacling
in the flesh, were accompanied with prayer; and his present exaltation at the right hand of
his heavenly Father, instead of suspending, rather imparts a more sublime intensity of fervour
to his petitions. In vain had he shed his blood without this; for his prayers are as essential
for the salvation of sinners, as his sufferings on the cross for their redemption; and therefore
the apostle, in the twenty-fifth verse of the seventh chapter of the epistle to the Hebrews,
connects the unlimited ability of Jesus to save, not only with his having offered himself as
a sacrifice, but also with his ever living to make intercession for us. O! how welcome and
delightful must be the accents of supplication to the ears of the Lord God of Sabaoth, when
he withholds blessings, even from his well-beloved Son, until he ask for them! And how necessary
is prayer, when Jesus cannot obtain blessings without it! There is a reserve manifested by
the Holy Spirit in this, as in other instances, as to the contents of our Saviour's petitions.
Most probably they had some reference to that splendid scene in his earthly history, into which
he was about to enter.

But we must pass on to the description which is given of the transfiguration of Jesus. "His
face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light." On this we can say but
little, for no imagination can conceive, nor can words express the exact nature of that splendid
scene which is here so slightly glanced at. The Holy Spirit has employed the most concise mode
of description in order to restrain our fancy within proper limits. We are, therefore, altogether
incompetent to expatiate on a subject so sublime, for we know nothing, beyond what is written,
of the glory which is associated with spiritual bodies. And when, on another occasion, he was
anxious to comfort the church by a description of the resurrection-body into which the Saviour
shall change the vile bodies of his people, he could only describe it by the use of words which
merely implied a direct contrast between what we now are and what we shall be. Our present
bodies are earthly, natural, mortal, and corruptible; our resurrection bodies shall be celestial,
spiritual, immortal, incorruptible: but these latter expressions are only negations of the
former; as to any positive apprehension of the nature of glorified bodies, "it doth not yet
appear what we shall be." And there is much wisdom in this reserve: there is enough told us
upon the subject to encourage us to persevere in our endeavours to attain to the joy that is
set before us, but not as much as would, in the meantime, render us too much discontented with
our present state.

We must, however, carefully note that the Holy Spirit, in so far describing the Saviour's transfiguration,
has given a literal account of a real transaction. There is no cunningly-devised fable here.
There was nothing visionary in the exhibition itself; there is nothing fanciful in the description
of it. Jesus was actually metamorphosed; "his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was
white as the light," and, as on all ordinary occasions in the days of his flesh he was God
manifest in the nature of man, so, during the continuance of this splendid scene, he exhibited
his human nature manifested in and encompassed by the brightness and glory of his Godhead.

But it may be profitable to inquire into some of the uses of this great transaction, for such
an occurrence could not have taken place without some important object. It was intended to
prepare the Saviour for his approaching sufferings; to shew the interest which heaven took
in his sacrifice; to be a source of strength and comfort to the church, by giving a type and
specimen of that high degree of glory to which the nature of man is destined to be exalted
in consequence of the Saviour's dying love. But the leading object of this event was to give
a representation of his second coming in majesty at the last day. It is not by any gratuitous
assumption that we maintain this, but on the sure ground of strong scriptural testimony. We
find St. Matthew representing the Saviour as promising some of his disciples that they should
not taste of death till they saw him "coming in his kingdom;" and in the parallel passage in
the ninth chapter of St. Mark, he is represented as saying that there were some standing with
him who should not see death until they had seen the kingdom of God "come with power." Now
the apostle Peter combines the substance of these two declarations, in a manner which distinctly
shews that he considered them as having a reference to the future advent of the Redeemer. Those,
therefore, who say that the transfiguration had a typical reference either to the effusion
of the Spirit on the day of pentecost, or to the destruction of Jerusalem, are greatly in error.
It was meant to be a specimen and earnest of our Lord's appearance hereafter in glory, when
he shall come to be admired in all them that believe, and to establish his everlasting kingdom
of righteousness and peace in the earth. The use of a type is to arrest and embody in a kind
of visible indication the prominent features of its antitype; and, accordingly, if we examine
the leading circumstances of the transfiguration, we shall find such a resemblance between
it and the second coming of our Saviour, as will clearly establish such a relationship between
these two events. Jesus appeared in literal human nature on the mountain; so shall he come
again, as the Son of man, possessing the same nature with his people; for the apostles were
informed when he ascended, that the very same Jesus who had been taken up from them into heaven
should even so come in like manner as they had seen him ascend into heaven. He appeared in
glory, and not in humility; such as he shall descend hereafter, when he shall come with all
his holy angels and sit upon the throne of his glory. As he was visible on the mountain, so,
when he shall come again, every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him; and all
kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. As he was encompassed by a cloud on the summit
of Tabor, so shall he come hereafter in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory. As
he stood in majesty upon the mountain, so according to the declaration of the prophet, his
feet shall stand, when he comes again, upon the mount of Olives. And as Moses and Elias appeared
in glory with the Saviour, so shall he bring his people with him on his return to our world,
for, when Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall we also appear with him in glory.

Such we believe to have been the great primary object of this interesting event. How full of
consolation and encouragement must it appear in this important view to every believer who is
still struggling with the infirmities and trials of his earthly pilgrimage.

FOOTNOTE:

[Y] From a scriptural small work, with the style and spirit of which we are much pleased, "The
Transfiguration," an exposition of Matt. xvii. i. 8, by the rev. Daniel Bagot, B.D., minister
of St. James' chapel, Edinburgh, and chaplain to the right hon. the earl of Kilmorry. Edinburgh,
Johnstone: London, Whittaker, Nisbet: Dublin, Curry, jun., Robertson.

THE CABINET.

NO SALVATION WITHOUT AN ATONEMENT.--But let me turn your attention to the sad effect which
a denial of the Saviour's Deity has upon the prospects of man for eternity. It is a truth written,
as with a sunbeam, upon every page of scripture, that man is by nature a fallen, a guilty,
a condemned creature, obnoxious to the righteous judgment of God. We are told, that "the heart
is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked;"--that "all have sinned, and come short
of the glory of God:" Jehovah himself is represented as looking down from heaven upon the children
of men, to investigate their characters with that omniscient ken by which he explores the utmost
boundaries of the illimitable universe, and pronouncing this solemn verdict--"There is none
righteous; no, not one:" and the apostle Paul, when reminding the Ephesian church of their
past unregenerate condition, says that they were "children of wrath, even as others." If man,
then, be in a guilty and condemned state by nature, it is an awful and important question,
how shall he obtain pardon and justification with God, on account of his past transgressions?
and how shall his sinful and unholy nature be sanctified and prepared for admission into the
realms of everlasting glory? Can personal repentance, on the part of the sinner, obliterate
the crime of which he has been guilty, so as to reinstate him into the condition of a sinless
and unfallen being? Unquestionably not. For whatever act has been performed by God, or angels,
or by man, must remain for ever written upon the pages of eternity, never to be erased; and,
therefore, no subsequent repentance on the sinner's part, no tears of sorrow or contrition,
can ever blot out his past transgressions; nor even could the united tears of angels erase
the record of those offences for which man is brought in guilty before God! Can, then, subsequent
obedience achieve the work of the sinner's justification? This, alas! will prove as ineffectual
as repentance; for though we should render to God a perfect obedience for the remainder of
our lives, still the sin we have committed is sufficient to procure our conviction and condemnation;
for the wages of sin is death! Shall we, then, have recourse to the abstract mercy of God,
as the foundation upon which to rest our hope of pardon? This is the Unitarian's plea: "I believe,"
he says, "that God is merciful; and I repose in his kindness, and trust he will have compassion
on me." Alas, my friends! it was bad enough that Mr. Porter should have yesterday adopted the
algebraic principle of neutralizing one text of scripture by another; but to carry up this
principle to a contemplation of the character of God, and to bring it into collision with the
attributes of Jehovah, and thus to set his mercy against his justice--his compassion against
his truth--his grace against his holiness, and thereby to neutralize and annihilate one class
of attributes by another, is a guilt that is direful, blasphemous, and indescribable.--From
speech of the Rev. Daniel Bagot, at the Belfast Unitarian [Socinian] discussion.

POETRY.

LAYS OF PALESTINE.

No. IX.

(For the Church of England Magazine.)

By T. G. Nicholas.

    "She hath given up the ghost; her sun is gone down while
    it was yet day."--Jer. xv. 9. 19.

      'Tis eventide; the golden tints are dying
        Along the horizon's glowing verge away;
      Far in the groves the nightingale is sighing
        Her requiem to the last receding ray;
        And still thou holdest thy appointed way.
      But Salem's light is quench'd.--Majestic sun!
        Her beauteous flock hath wandered far astray,
      Led by their guides the path of life to shun;
    Her orb hath sunk ere yet his wonted course was run.

      In ages past all glorious was thy land,
        And lovely were thy borders, Palestine!
      The heavens were wont to shed their influence bland
        On all those mountains and those vales of thine;
        For o'er thy coasts resplendent then did shine
      The light of God's approving countenance,
        With rapturous glow of blessedness divine;
      And, 'neath the radiance of that mighty glance,
    Bask'd the wide-scatter'd isles o'er ocean's blue expanse.

      But there survives a tinge of glory yet
        O'er all thy pastures and thy heights of green,
      Which, though the lustre of thy day hath set,
        Tells of the joy and splendour which hath been:
        So some proud ruin, 'mid the desert seen
      By traveller, halting on his path awhile,
        Declares how once beneath the light serene
      Of brief prosperity's unclouded smile,
    Uprose in grandeur there some vast imperial pile.

      O Thou, who through the wilderness of old
        Thy people to their promis'd rest did'st bring,
      Hasten the days by prophet-bards foretold,
        When roses shall again be blossoming
        In Sharon, and Siloa's cooling spring
      Shall murmur freshly at the noon-tide hour;
        And shepherds oft in Achor's vale shall sing[Z]
      The mysteries of that redeeming power
    Which hath their ashes chang'd for beauty's sunniest bower.[AA]

      Thou had'st a plant of thy peculiar choice
        A fruitful vine from Egypt's servile shore
      Thou mad'st it in the smile of heav'n rejoice;
        But the ripe clusters which awhile it bore
        Now purple on the verdant hills no more,
      The wild-boar hath upon its branches trod;
        Yet once again thy choicest influence pour,
      Transplant it from this dim terrestrial sod,
    To adorn with deathless bloom the paradise of God.

                               Wadh. Coll. Oxon.

FOOTNOTES:

[Z] Isaiah xv. 10.

[AA] Isaiah lxi. 3.

MISCELLANEOUS.

INFLUENCE OF RELIGION ON A STATE.--Religious faith is necessarily and unavoidably political
in its influence and bearings, and eminently so. Christians are generally well informed--and
knowledge is power. They have there in Christian countries, as citizens and subjects, directly
and indirectly, a large share of influence in the state. In most Christian states, if not in
all--for a state could hardly be called Christian, if it were not so--Christianity is made
a party of common law, and, when occasion demands, is recognised as such by the judicial tribunals.
It is eminently so in Great Britain; it is so in America; and generally throughout Europe.
It is also, to a great extent, established by constitutional law, and thus incorporated with
the political fabric, furnishing occasion for an extended code of special statutes. The great
principles of Christianity pervade the frame of society, and its morals are made the standard.
The second table of the decalogue is adopted throughout as indispensable to the well-being
of the state; and a thousand forms of legislation are attempted to secure the ends of the great
and comprehensive Christian precept--"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." More especially
is it deemed the highest perfection of civilized life and manners, in the code of conventional
politeness, to exemplify this latter divine injunction. Otherwise life would be much less comfortable--hardly
tolerable.--A Voice from America to England.

