In the earlier portion of the lives of all of us there is a time, heaven-given without doubt,
for all things, as we know, draw their origin thence, if only in our blundering, ill-conditioned
way we trace them back far enough with the finger of fate pointing to us as in mockery of all
striving of ours on this rough bosom of our mother earth, a time there comes when the senses
rebel, first faintly, and then with ever-increasing vehemence, panting, beating, buffeting
and breasting the torrent of necessity, against the parental decree that would drench our inmost
being in the remedial powder of a Gregorian doctor, famous, I doubt not, in his day, and much
bepraised by them that walked delicately in the light of pure reason and the healthful flow
of an untainted soul, but now cast out and abhorred of childhood soaring on uplifted wing through
the vast blue of the modern pharmacopoeia. Yet to them is there not comfort too in the symbolic
outpourings of a primæval wisdom which, embodied for all time in imperishable verse, are chanted
in the haunts of the very young like the soft lappings of the incoming tide on a beach where
rounded pebble disputes with shining sand the mastery of the foreshore?

So, too, while the infant chariot with its slow motion of treble wheels advances obedient to
the hand of the wimpled maid who from the rear directs its ambiguous progress, the dozing occupant
may not always understand, but, hearing, cannot fail to be moved to tears by the simple tale
of JOANNA crossed in all her depth and scope of free vigorous life by him that should have
stood her friend. For the man had wedded her. Of that there can be no doubt, since the chronicles
have handed down the date of it. Wedded her with the fatal "yes" that binds a trusting soul
in the world's chains. A man, too. His names stand in full in the verse. JOHN, shortened familiarly,
but not without a hint of contempt, to JACK, stares at you in all the bravery of a Christian
name. And SPRATT follows with a breath of musty antiquity. SPRATT that is indeed a SPRATT,
sunk in the oil of a slothful imagination and bearing no impress of the sirname that should
raise its owner to cloudy peaks of despotic magnificence.

But of the lady's names no hint is given. We may conjecture SPRATT to have been hers too, poor
young soul that should have been dancing instead of fastened to a table in front of an eternal
platter. And of all names to precede it the fittest surely is JOANNA. For what is that but
the glorification with many feminine thrills of the unromantic chawbacon JOHN masticating at
home in semi-privacy the husks of contentment, the lean scrapings of the divine dish which
is offered once in every life to all. So JOANNA she shall be and is, and as JOANNA shall her
story be told.

CHAPTER II.

Many are the tales concerning JOANNA's flashing wit. There appeared many years back, in a modest
shape that excited small interest amongst the reviewing herd, a booklet whereof the title furnished
little if any indication to the contents. The Spinster's Reticule, for so the name ran, came
forth with no blare of journalistic trumpets challenging approval from the towers of critical
sagacity. It appeared and lived. But between its cardboard covers the bruised heart of JOANNA
beats before the world. She shines most in these aphorisms. Her private talk, too, has its
own brilliancy, spun, as it was here and there, out of a museful mind at the cooking of the
dinner or of the family accounts. She said of love that "it is the sputter of grease in a frying-pan;
where it falls the fire burns with a higher flame to consume it."[1] Of man, that "he may navigate
Mormon Bay, but he cannot sail to Khiva Point." The meaning is too obvious it may be, but the
thought is well imaged.

She is delightful when she touches on life. "Two," she says, "may sit at a feast, but the feast
is not thereby doubled." And, again, "Passion may lift us to Himalaya heights, but the hams
are smoked in a chimney." And this of the soul, "He who fashions a waterproof prevents not
the clouds from dripping moisture." Of stockings she observes that, "The knitting-needles are
long, but the turn of the heel is a teaser." Here there is a delightful irony of which matrons
and maids may take note.

Such, then, was our JOANNA--JOANNA MERESIA SPRATT, to give her that full name by which posterity
is to know her--an ardent, bubbling, bacon-loving girl-nature, with hands reaching from earth
to the stars, that blinked egregiously at the sight of her innocent beauty, and hid themselves
in winding clouds for very love of her.

CHAPTER III.

Sir JOHN SPRATT had fashions that were peculiarly his own. Vain it were to inquire how, from
the long-perished SPRATTS that went before him, he drew that form of human mind which was his.
Laws that are hidden from our prying eyes ordain that a man shall be the visible exemplar of
vanished ages, offering here and there a hook of remembrance, on which a philosopher may hang
a theory for the world's admiring gaze. Far back in the misty past, of which the fabulists
bear record, there have swum SPRATTS within this human ocean, and of these the ultimate and
proudest was he with whose life-story we are concerned. It was his habit to carry with him
on all journeys a bulky note-book, the store in which he laid by for occasions of use the thoughts
that thronged upon him, now feverishly, as with the exultant leap of a rough-coated canine
companion, released from the thraldom of chain and kennel, and eager to seek the Serpentine
haunts of water-nymphs, and of sticks that fell with a splash, and are brought back time and
again whilst the shaken spray bedews the onlookers; now with the staid and solemn progression
that is beloved of the equine drawers of four-wheeled chariots, protesting with many growls
against a load of occupants.

He had met JOANNA. They had conversed. "An empty table, is it not?" said she. "Nowhere!" said
he, and they proceeded. His "Nowhere!" had a penetrating significance--the more significant
for the sense that it left vague.

And so the marriage was arranged, the word that was to make one of those who had hitherto been
two had been spoken, and the celebrating gifts came pouring in to the pair.

Sir JOHN walked home with triumph swelling high in his heart. Overhead the storm-clouds gathered
ominously. First with a patter, then with a drenching flood, the prisoned rain burst its bars,
and dashed clamouring down to the free earth. He paused, umbrellaless, under a glimmering lamp-post.
The hurrying steeds of a carriage, passing at great speed, dashed the gathered slush of the
street over his dark-blue Melton over-coat. The imprecations of the coachman and his jeers
mingled strangely with the elemental roar. Sir JOHN heeded them not. He stood moveless for
a space, then slowly drawing forth his note-book, and sharpening his pencil, he wrote the following
phrase:--"Laid Brother to Banjo, one, two, three, 5 to 4."

CHAPTER IV.

A year had gone by, and with the spring that whispered softly in the blossoming hedge-rows,
and the melancholy cry of the female fowl calling to her downy brood, JOANNA had learnt new
lessons of a beneficent life, and had crystallised them in aphorisms, shaken like dew from
the morning leaf of her teeming fancy.

They sat at table together. BINNS, the butler, who himself dabbled in aphorism, and had sucked
wisdom from the privy perusal of Sir JOHN's note-book, had laid before them a dish on which
reposed a small but well-boiled leg of one that had trod the Southdowns but a week before in
all the pride of lusty life. There was a silence for a moment.

"You will, as usual, take the fat?" queried Sir JOHN.

"Lean for me to-day," retorted JOANNA, with one of her bright flashes.

"Nay, nay," said her husband, "that were against tradition, which assigns to you the fat."

JOANNA pouted. Her mind rebelled against dictation. Besides, were not her aphorisms superior
to those of her husband? The cold face of Sir JOHN grew eloquent in protest. She paused, and
then with one wave of her stately arm swept mutton, platter, knife, fork, and caper sauce into
the lap of Sir JOHN, whence the astonished BINNS, gasping in pain, with much labour rescued
them. JOANNA had disappeared in a flame of mocking laughter, and was heard above calling on
her maid for salts. But Sir JOHN ere yet the sauce had been fairly scraped from him, unclasped
his note-book, and with trembling fingers wrote therein, "POOLE's master-pieces are ever at
the mercy of an angry woman."

CHAPTER V.

But the world is hard, and there was little mercy shown for JOANNA's freak. Her husband had
slain her. That was all. She with her flashes, her gaiety, her laughter, was consigned to dust.
But in Sir JOHN's note-book it was written that, "The hob-nailed boot is but a bungling weapon.
The drawing-room poker is better."

THE END.

[Footnote 1: I guarantee all these remarks to be intensely humorous and brilliant. If you can't
see it, so much the worse for you. They are screamers.--G.V.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE GRASSHOPPERA" AT THE LYRIC.

Nothing prettier than La Cigale at the Lyric Theatre has been seen in London for a very long
time. The dresses are perfect, and the three stage pictures which illustrate the graceful story
could not be better. Then the book is admittedly a model libretto, set to music at once fresh
and charming. What more could be desired? Why capable exponents. Here, again, Mr. SEDGER is
in luck's way. With Miss GERALDINE ULMAR as the Grasshopper, and Miss EFFIE CLEMENTS as the
Ant, who could ask for more? Without replying to the question, it may be said at once that
"more" is excellently represented by Mr. ERIC LEWIS as a Duke, Mr. LIONEL BROUGH as a Landlord
(by the way the Uncle of the Ant), and Mr. E.W. GARDEN as the Bill of the Play. Perhaps on
the first night the CHEVALIER SCOVEL as the Chevalier de Bernheim was not quite at home in
his new surroundings. Accustomed to a more serious kind of entertainment, he appeared a trifle
heavy, and his tenor notes (not unsuggestive of the Bank of Elegance) were sometimes of doubtful
value. By this time, however, no doubt, he has regained his normal composure, and sings as
successfully as any of his colleagues.

After the last Act everyone was called, inclusive of the composers and the author; the latter,
being at that very moment on his way to France, could not respond to the hearty applause with
which his name was greeted, and must accordingly await the personal congratulations of the
audience until his return from foreign parts. Mr. CARYLL who had done so much to musically
illustrate the Christmas Tree Scene (thus meriting the title of Mr. CHRISTMAS CARYLL), was
also not to be found when wanted, and so the Sole Lessee and Manager had nothing more to do
than return thanks for all concerned, and make up his mind to a run that seems likely to keep
him on his legs until Easter.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. STANLEY.

    [At a meeting of the Cardiff Corporation on Tuesday, October
    7, a letter was read from Mr. H.M. STANLEY stating, that he
    would be unable to fulfil his engagement to visit Cardiff and
    accept the freedom of the borough. All preparation for the
    ceremony had been made, and a costly silver casket, which
    is now useless, was specially ordered. Mr. STANLEY's excuse
    was pressure of business in preparing for his American
    tour.--Daily Paper.]

  The Council at Cardiff looked angry and glum,
    Their chagrin was so great it was useless to mask it,
  They had only just heard you were not going to come,
    And alack! and alas! they had ordered the casket!

  The address had been settled; the language was tall,
    The phrases were apt and so beautifully rounded,
  They had told of your pluck so well known to us all,
    And your praises, of course, they had suitably sounded.

  And then you can't come!--But it scarcely avails
    To become of excuses a common concocter,
  For if "pressure of business" will keep you from Wales,
    Why go down to Cambridge to pose as a Doctor?

  Yes, think once again of your promise, and so
    Just alter your mind, it would be much too hard if
  You left unfulfilled your engagement to go
    And receive (in a casket) the Freedom of Cardiff.