A much misunderstood man is Count BERNSTORFF, formerly German Ambassador at Washington. While
we were all supposing him to be a bomb-laden conspirator, pulling secret strings in Mexico
or Canada or Japan from the safe protection afforded to his embassy, really he was the most
innocent of men, anxious for nothing but to keep unsophisticated America from being trapped
by the wiles of the villain Britisher. One has it all on the best of authority--his own--in
My Three Years in America (SKEFFINGTON). Of course awkward incidents did occur, which have
to be explained away or placidly ignored, but really, if the warlords at home had not been
so invincibly tactless in the matter of drowning citizens of the United States, this simple
and ingenuous diplomat might very well have succeeded, he would have us believe, in persuading
President WILSON to declare in favour of a peace-loving All-Highest. As an essay in special
pleading the book does not lack ingenuity, and as an example of the familiar belief that other
peoples will shut their eyes and swallow whatever opinions the Teuton thinks good to offer
them, it may have interest for the psychologist. For the rest it is a very prosy piece of literature,
only saved occasionally in its dulness by the unconscious crudity of the hatreds lurking beneath
its mask of plausibility. One of these hatreds is clearly directed against Ambassador GERARD,
to whose well-known book this volume is in some sort a counter- blast. Neither a historian
seeking truth nor a plain reader seeking recreation will have any difficulty in choosing between
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. D.A. BARKER, in The Great Leviathan (LANE), doesn't merely leave you to make the obvious
remark about his having taken Mr. H.G. WELL'S loose, tangential and, for a beginner, extraordinarily
dangerous method as a model, but rubs it in (stout fellow!) by transplanting his hero to India,
seemingly in order to have excuse for writing a passage which one would say was obviously inspired
by that gorgeous description of the jungle in The Research Magnificent. Mr. BARKER has enough
matter for two (or three) novels and enough skill in portraiture to make them more coherent
and plausible than this. The theme is old but freshly seen. Tom Seton, resolved to avoid risking
for his beloved the unhappiness which his mother had found in the bondage of marriage, offers
her--indeed imposes on her--a free union. How the pressure of The Great Leviathan (Mrs. Grundy--well,
that's not perhaps quite the whole of the idea, but it will serve) drove her into the shelter
of a formal marriage with a devoted don, I leave you to gather. I don't think the author quite
succeeds in making Mary's defection inevitable, nor do I see the significance of the apparently
quite irrelevant background of Indian philosophy and intrigue. But here's a well-written book,
with sound positive qualities outweighing the defects of inexperience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain ALAN BOTT ("Contact") has a literary gift of a high order, the gift of getting the
very last thrill out of his experiences while telling his tale in the simplest and most straightforward
way. In Eastern Nights (BLACKWOOD) he describes his adventures as a prisoner of the Turks,
first in Damascus and Asia Minor and finally in Constantinople. The narrative, which is purely
one of action, the action being supplied by the efforts, finally successful, of the author
and various brother-officers to escape from their most unattractive captivity, nevertheless
offers a most vivid picture of the social fabric of the Near East and in particular of the
attitude of the mélange of Oriental peoples that comprised the Turkish Empire towards the War
in which they found themselves taking part, most of them with reluctance and all inefficiently.
Apathy rather than calculated brutality was chiefly responsible for the hardships suffered
by the prisoners of war of all nations who were unfortunate enough to fall into Turkish hands.
From the point of view of an officer determined to escape, however, the prevalence of this
quality was not without its advantage. Most of the officials (Turks and Germans excepted) with
whom Captain BOTT and his fellow-officers had to do were pro-Ally at heart and ready enough
to assist an escaping prisoner if they did not happen to be too timid. And even the Turk was
amenable on occasion to baksheesh. Altogether a most fascinating book, Eastern Nights is likely
to win wide appreciation not alone for its literary merit but as a stirring record of the courage
and resource, under desperate and trying conditions, of the Empire's soldiers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss HENRIETTA LESLIE belongs to the school of novelists who believe in telling you all about
their characters and leaving you to pass judgment on them yourself, without expert assistance.
It is a fine impartial method which succeeds in representing life and the indecisiveness of
human nature very well; but such books somehow lack the glow of more partisan writings. In
A Mouse with Wings (COLLINS) she tells the story of a woman's life from the time of her engagement
until her son is a young man and she herself married again. Olga is a splendid creature, but,
as Miss LESLIE cleverly lets you see for yourself, the belief in her own principles and their
application, which is the essence of her character, alienates her husband and makes something
like a ninny of Arnold, her son. A Mouse with Wings is not only the sobriquet of Beryl, the
cheerful young Suffragette whom he loves, but has its application also to poor Arnold, who
finds the courage to face life and a way out of it fighting in France. It is a nicely-written
book with a little air of distinction, but, in case anyone should blame me for hushing it up,
I ought to mention that both Olga and Beryl would probably have admired Arnold a great deal
more had he "found himself" by way of Conscientious Objection.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can testify that Mr. ZANE GREY'S The Man of the Forest (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a yarn told
with considerable zest and with just that undercurrent of sentiment which sweeps large portions
of the British public completely off its feet. In this book the heroine, Helen Rayner, and
her sister, Bo, leave Missouri for their uncle's ranch in New Mexico; but before they reach
their destination many and wonderful adventures befall them. To escape from being kidnapped
by some superb scoundrels they were hustled off to Milt Dale's home in the forest, and there
they had for a long time to remain. Milt was one of nature's gentlemen, but as his boon companion
was a cougar (whose uninviting picture is to be seen upon the paper cover), this forest home
had its slight inconveniences. Mr. GREY, however, writes of it so admirably that he almost
persuades me to be a camper-out, provided always that I may live in a cavern and not in a caravan.
Cowboys, bandits, Mormons and other vigorous characters keep things moving at a terrific pace.
But stirringly full of incident as this tale is, Mr. GREY never forgets that it is love that
really makes the world go round. He is in short a born storyteller, with a style by no means
to be despised, and I see no reason why his popularity should not continue to wax here, and
ultimately to rival its American magnitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER GEDDES PROMOTION.

    "Among celebrities who will watch British seamanship matched against
    American are Franklin D. Roosevelt, Assistant Secretary of the Navy,
    and Sir Auckland Geddes, British Admiral to the United States."--
    Canadian Paper.