After a period of drowsiness, something moved and glittered on the water, close to the bank;
and there bobbed the ghost prau, the gilt and vermilion flags shining in the firelight. She
had come clear in on the flood,--a piece of luck. I got up, cut a withe of bamboo, and made
her fast to a root. Then I fed the fire, lay down again, and watched her back and fill on her
tether,--all clear and ruddy in the flame, even the carvings, and the little wooden figures
of wizards on her deck. And while I looked, I grew drowsier and drowsier; my eyes would close,
then half open, and there would be the hantu sails and the fire for company, growing more and
more indistinct.

So much for Certainty; now begins the Other. Did I fall asleep at all? If so, was my first
waking a dream-waking, and the real one only when the thing was gone? I'm not an imaginative
man; my mind, at home, usually worked with some precision; but this,--there seems to be, you
might say, a blur, a--film over my mental retina. You see, I'm not a psychologist, and therefore
can't use the big, foggy terms of man's conceit to explain what he never can explain,--himself,
and Life.

       *       *       *       *       *

The captain tossed his cheroot overboard, and was silent for a space.

"The psychologists forget Æsop's frog story," he said at last. "Little swollen Egos, again."

Then his voice flowed on, slowly, in the dark.

       *       *       *       *       *

I ask you just to believe this much: that I for my part feel sure (except sometimes by daylight)
that I was not more than half asleep when a footfall seemed to come in the path, and waked
me entirely. It didn't sound,--only seemed to come. I believe, then, that I woke, roused up
on my elbow, and stared over at the opening among the bamboos where the path came into the
clearing. Some one moved down the bank, and drew slowly forward to the edge of the firelight.
A strange, whispering, uncertain kind of voice said something,--something in Dutch.

I didn't catch the words, and it spoke again:--

"What night of the month is this night?"

If awake, I was just enough so to think this a natural question to be asked first off, out
here in the wilds.

"It's the 6th," I answered in Dutch. "Come down to the fire, Mynheer."

You know how bleary and sightless your eyes are for a moment, waking, after the glare of these
days. The figure seemed to come a little nearer, but I could only see that it was a man dressed
in black. Even that didn't seem odd.

"Of what month?" the stranger said. The voice was what the French call "veiled."

"June," I answered.

"And what year?" he asked.

I told him--or It.

"He is very late," said the voice, like a sigh. "He should have sent long ago."

Only at this point did the whole thing begin to seem queer. As evidence that I must have been
awake, I recalled afterwards that my arm had been made numb by the pressure of my head upon
it while lying down, and now began to tingle.

"It is very late," the voice repeated. "Perhaps too late----"

The fire settled, flared up fresh, and lighted the man's face dimly,--a long, pale face with
gray mustache and pointed beard. He was all in black, so that his outline was lost in darkness;
but I saw that round his neck was a short white ruff, and that heavy leather boots hung in
folds, cavalier-fashion, from his knees. He wavered there in the dark, against the flicker
of the bamboo shadows, like a picture by that Dutch fellow--What's-his-name-again--a very dim,
shaky, misty Rembrandt.

"And you, Mynheer," he went on, in the same toneless voice, "from where do you come to this shore?"

"From Singapore," I managed to reply.

"From Singapura," he murmured. "And so white men live there now?--Ja, ja, time has passed."

Up till now I may have only been startled, but this set me in a blue funk. It struck me all
at once that this shaky old whisper of a voice was not speaking the Dutch of nowadays. I never
before knew the depths, the essence, of that uncertainty which we call fear. In the silence,
I thought a drum was beating,--it was the pulse in my ears. The fire close by was suddenly cold.

"And now you go whither?" it said.

"To Batavia," I must have answered, for it went on:--

"Then you may do a great service to me and to another. Go to Jacatra in Batavia, and ask for
Pieter Erberveld. Hendrik van der Have tells him to cease--before it is too late, before the
thing becomes accursed. Tell him this. You will have done well, and I--shall sleep again. Give
him the message----"

The voice did not stop, so much as fade away unfinished. And the man, the appearance, the eyes,
moved away further into the dark, dissolving, retreating. A shock like waking came over me--a
rush of clear consciousness----

Humph! Yes, been too long away from home; for I know (mind you, know) that I saw the white
of that ruff, the shadowy sweep of a cloak, as something turned its back and moved up the path
under the pointed arch of bamboos, and was gone slowly in the blackness. I'm as sure of this
as I am that the fire gave no heat. But whether the time of it all had been seconds or hours,
I can't tell you.

What? Yes, naturally. I jumped and ran up the path after it. Nothing there but starlight. I
must have gone on for half a mile. Nothing: only ahead of me, along the path, the monkeys would
chatter and break into an uproar, and then stop short--every treetop silent, as they do when
a python comes along. I went back to the clearing, sat down on the mat, stayed there by clinching
my will power, so to speak,--and watched myself for other symptoms, till morning. None came.
The fire, when I heaped it, was as hot as any could be. By dawn I had persuaded myself that
it was a dream. No footprints in the path, though I mentioned a shower before.

At sunrise, the kapala's men came down the path, little chaps in black mediæval armor made
of petroleum tins, and coolies carrying piculs of stuff that I wanted. So I was busy,--but
managed to dismast the hantu prau and wrap it up in matting, so that it went aboard with the
plunder.

Yet this other thing bothered me so that I held the schooner over, and made pretexts to stay
ashore two more nights. Nothing happened. Then I called myself a grandmother, and sailed for
Batavia.

Two nights later, a very singular thing happened. The mate--this one with the sharp eyes--is
a quiet chap; seldom speaks to me except on business. He was standing aft that evening, and
suddenly, without any preliminaries, said:

"Tuan was not alone the other night."

"What's that, Sidin?" I spoke sharply, for it made me feel quite angry and upset, of a sudden.
He laughed a little, softly.

"I saw that the fire was a cold fire," he said. That was all he would say, and we've never
referred to it again.

You may guess the rest, if you know your history of Java. I didn't then, and didn't even know
Batavia,--had been ashore often, but only for a toelatingskaart and some good Dutch chow. Well,
one afternoon, I was loafing down a street, and suddenly noticed that the sign-board said,
"Jacatra-weg." The word made me jump, and brought the whole affair on Celebes back like a shot,--and
not as a dream. It became a live question; I determined to treat it as one, and settle it.

I stopped a fat Dutchman who was paddling down the middle of the street in his pyjamas, smoking
a cigar.

"Pardon, Mynheer," I said. "Does a man live here in Jacatra-weg named Erberveld?"

"Nej," he shook his big shaved head. "Nej, Mynheer, I do not know."

"Pieter Erberveld," I suggested.

The man broke into a horse-laugh.

"Ja, ja," he said, and laughed still. "I did not think of him. Ja, on this way, opposite the
timber yard, you will find his house." And he went off, bowing and grinning hugely.

The nature of the joke appeared later, but I wasn't inclined to laugh. You've seen the place.
No? Right opposite a timber yard in a cocoanut grove: it was a heavy, whitewashed wall, as
high as a man, and perhaps two perches long. Where the gate should have been, a big tablet
was set in, and over that, on a spike, a skull, grinning through a coat of cement. The tablet
ran in eighteenth-century Dutch, about like this:--

     BY REASON OF THE DETESTABLE MEMORY OF THE CONVICTED TRAITOR, PIETER
     ERBERVELD, NO ONE SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BUILD IN WOOD OR STONE OR
     TO PLANT ANYTHING UPON THIS GROUND, FROM NOW TILL JUDGMENT DAY.
     BATAVIA, APRIL 14, ANNO 1772.

You'll find the story in any book: the chap was a half-caste Guy Fawkes who conspired to deliver
Batavia to the King of Bantam, was caught, tried, and torn asunder by horses. I nosed about
and went through a hole in a side wall: nothing in the compound but green mould, dried stalks,
dead leaves, and blighted banana trees. The inside of the gate was blocked with five to eight
feet of cement. The Dutch hate solidly.

But Hendrik van der Have? No, I never found the name in any of the books. So there you are.
Well? Can a man dream of a thing before he knows that thing, or----

       *       *       *       *       *

The captain's voice, which had flowed on in slow and dispassionate soliloquy, became half audible,
and ceased. As we gave ear to the silence, we became aware that a cool stir in the darkness
was growing into a breeze. After a time, the thin crowing of game-cocks in distant villages,
the first twitter of birds among the highest branches, told us that night had turned to morning.
A soft patter of bare feet came along the deck, a shadow stood above us, and the low voice
of the mate said:

"Ada kapal api disitu, Tuan--saiah kirah--ada kapal prrang."

"Gunboat, eh?" Captain Forsythe was on his feet, and speaking briskly. "Bai, tarek jangcar.
Breeze comes just in time."

We peered seaward from the rail; far out, two pale lights, between a red coal and a green,
shone against the long, glimmering strip of dawn.

"Heading this way, but there's plenty of time," the captain said cheerfully. "Take the wheel
a minute, youngster--that's it,--keep her in,--they can't see us against shore where it's still
night."

As the schooner swung slowly under way, his voice rose, gay as a boy's:--

"Come on, you rice-fed admirals!" He made an improper gesture, his profile and outspread fingers
showing in the glow-worm light of the binnacle. "If they follow us through by the Verdronken
Rozengain, we'll show them one piece 'e navigation. Can do, eh? These old iron-clad junks are
something a man knows how to deal with."

MISS JUNO

BY

CHARLES WARREN STODDARD

Copyright, 1903, by A. M. Robertson Reprinted from FOR THE PLEASURE OF HIS COMPANY

I

THERE was an episode in the life of Paul Clitheroe that may possibly throw some little light
upon the mystery of his taking off; and in connection with this matter it is perhaps worth
detailing.

One morning Paul found a drop-letter in the mail which greeted him daily. It ran as follows:

     DEAR OLD BOY:

     Don't forget the reception tomorrow. Some one will be here whom I
     wish you to know.

     Most affectionately,

     HARRY ENGLISH.

The "tomorrow" referred to was the very day on which Paul received the sweet reminder. The
reception of the message somewhat disturbed his customary routine. To be sure, he glanced through
the morning journal as usual; repaired to the Greek chop-house with the dingy green walls,
the smoked ceiling, the glass partition that separated the guests from a kitchen lined with
shining copper pans, where a cook in a white paper cap wafted himself about in clouds of vapor,
lit by occasional flashes of light and ever curling flames, like a soul expiating its sins
in a prescribed but savory purgatory. He sat in his chosen seat, ignored his neighbors with
his customary nonchalance, and returned to his room, as if nothing were about to happen. But
he accomplished little, for he felt that the day was not wholly his; so slight a cause seemed
to change the whole current of his life from hour to hour.

In due season Paul entered a street car which ran to the extreme limit of San Francisco. Harry
English lived not far from the terminus, and to the cozy home of this most genial and hospitable
gentleman the youth wended his way. The house stood upon the steep slope of a hill; the parlor
was upon a level with the street,--a basement dining-room below it,--but the rear of the house
was quite in the air and all of the rear windows commanded a magnificent view of the North
Bay with its islands and the opposite mountainous shore.

"Infinite riches in a little room," was the expression which came involuntarily to Paul's lips
the first time he crossed the threshold of Thespian Lodge. He might have said it of the Lodge
any day in the week; the atmosphere was always balmy and soothing; one could sit there without
talking or caring to talk; even without realizing that one was not talking and not being talked
to; the silence was never ominous; it was a wholesome and restful home, where Paul was ever
welcome and whither he often fled for refreshment.

The walls of the whole house were crowded with pictures, framed photographs and autographs,
chiefly of theatrical celebrities; both "Harry," as the world familiarly called him, and his
wife, were members of the dramatic profession and in their time had played many parts in almost
as many lands and latitudes.

There was one chamber in this delightful home devoted exclusively to the pleasures of entomology,
and there the head of the house passed most of the hours which he was free to spend apart from
the duties of his profession. He was a man of inexhaustible resources, consummate energy, and
unflagging industry, yet one who was never in the least hurried or flurried; and he was Paul's
truest and most judicious friend.

The small parlor at the Englishes was nearly filled with guests when Paul Clitheroe arrived
upon the scene. These guests were not sitting against the wall talking at each other; the room
looked as if it were set for a scene in a modern society comedy. In the bay window, a bower
of verdure, an extremely slender and diminutive lady was discoursing eloquently with the superabundant
gesticulation of the successful society amateur; she was dilating upon the latest production
of a minor poet whose bubble reputation was at that moment resplendent with local rainbows.
Her chief listener was a languid beauty of literary aspirations, who, in a striking pose, was
fit audience for the little lady as she frothed over with delightful, if not contagious, enthusiasm.

Mrs. English, who had been a famous belle--no one who knew her now would for a moment question
the fact--devoted herself to the entertainment of a group of silent people, people of the sort
that are not only colorless, but seem to dissipate the color in their immediate vicinity. The
world is full of such; they spring up, unaccountably, in locations where they appear to the
least advantage. Many a clever person who would delight to adorn a circle he longs to enter,
and where he would be hailed with joy, through modesty, hesitates to enter it; while others,
who are of no avail in any wise whatever, walk bravely in and find themselves secure through
a quiet system of polite insistence. Among the latter, the kind of people to be merely tolerated,
we find, also, the large majority.

Two children remarkably self-possessed seized upon Paul the moment he entered the room: a beautiful
lad as gentle and as graceful as a girl, and his tiny sister, who bore herself with the dignity
of a little lady of Lilliput. He was happy with them, quite as happy as if they were as old
and experienced as their elders and as well entertained by them, likewise. He never in his
life made the mistake that is, alas, made by most parents and guardians, of treating children
as if they were little simpletons who can be easily deceived. How often they look with scorn
upon their elders who are playing the hypocrite to eyes which are, for the most part, singularly
critical! Having paid his respects to those present--he was known to all--Paul was led a willing
captive into the chamber where Harry English and a brother professional, an eccentric comedian,
who apparently never uttered a line which he had not learned out of a play-book, were examining
with genuine enthusiasm certain cases of brilliantly tinted butterflies.

The children were quite at their ease in this house, and no wonder; California children are
born philosophers; to them the marvels of the somewhat celebrated entomological collection
were quite familiar; again and again they had studied the peculiarities of the most rare and
beautiful specimens of insect life under the loving tutelage of their friend, who had spent
his life and a small fortune in gathering together his treasures, and they were even able to
explain in the prettiest fashion the origin and use of the many curious objects that were distributed
about the rooms.

Meanwhile Mme. Lillian, the dramatic one, had left her bower in the bay window and was flitting
to and fro in nervous delight; she had much to say and it was always worth listening to. With
available opportunities she would have long since become famous and probably a leader of her
sex; but it was her fate to coach those of meaner capacities who were ultimately to win fame
and fortune while she toiled on, in genteel poverty, to the end of her weary days.

No two women could be more unlike than this many-summered butterfly, as she hovered among her
friends, and a certain comedy queen who was posing and making a picture of herself; the latter
was regarded by the society-privates, who haunted with fearful delight the receptions at Thespian
Lodge, with the awe that inspired so many inexperienced people who look upon members of the
dramatic profession as creatures of another and not a better world, and considerably lower
than the angels.

Two hours passed swiftly by; nothing ever jarred upon the guests in this house; the perfect
suavity of the host and hostess forbade anything like antagonism among their friends; and though
such dissimilar elements might never again harmonize, they were tranquil for the time at least.

The adieus were being said in the chamber of entomology, which was somewhat overcrowded and
faintly impregnated with the odor of corrosive sublimate. From the windows overlooking the
bay there was visible the expanse of purple water and the tawny, sunburnt hills beyond, while
pale-blue misty mountains marked the horizon with an undulating outline. A ship under full
sail--a glorious and inspiring sight--was bearing down before the stiff westerly breeze.

Mme. Lillian made an apt quotation which terminated with a Delsartean gesture and a rising
inflection that seemed to exact something from somebody; the comedienne struck one of her property
attitudes, so irresistibly comic that every one applauded, and Mme. Lillian laughed herself
to tears; then they all drifted toward the door. As mankind in general has much of the sheep
in him, one guest having got as far as the threshold, the others followed; Paul was left alone
with the Englishes and those clever youngsters, whose coachman, accustomed to waiting indefinitely
at the Lodge, was dutifully dozing on the box seat. The children began to romp immediately
upon the departure of the last guest, and during the riotous half-hour that succeeded, there
was a fresh arrival. The door-bell rang; Mrs. English, who was close at hand, turned to answer
it and at once bubbled over with unaffected delight. Harry, still having his defunct legions
in solemn review, recognized a cheery, un-American voice, and cried, "There she is at last!"
as he hastened to meet the newcomer.

Paul was called to the parlor where a young lady of the ultra-blonde type stood with a faultlessly
gloved hand in the hand of each of her friends; she was radiant with life and health. Of all
the young ladies Paul could at that moment remember having seen, she was the most exquisitely
clad; the folds of her gown fell about her form like the drapery of a statue; he was fascinated
from the first moment of their meeting. He noticed that nothing about her was ever disarranged;
neither was there anything superfluous or artificial, in manner or dress. She was in his opinion
an entirely artistic creation. She met him with a perfectly frank smile, as if she were an
old friend suddenly discovering herself to him, and when Harry English had placed the hand
of this delightful person in one of Paul's she at once withdrew the other, which Mrs. English
fondly held, and struck it in a hearty half-boyish manner upon their clasped hands, saying,
"Awfully glad to see you, Paul!" and she evidently meant it.

This was Miss. Juno, an American girl bred in Europe, now, after years of absence, passing
a season in her native land. Her parents, who had taken a country home in one of the California
valleys, found in their only child all that was desirable in life. This was not to be wondered
at; it may be said of her in the theatrical parlance that she "filled the stage." When Miss.
Juno dawned upon the scene the children grew grave, and, after a little delay, having taken
formal leave of the company, they entered their carriage and were rapidly driven homeward.

If Paul and Miss. Juno had been formed for one another and were now, at the right moment and
under the most favorable auspices, brought together for the first time, they could not have
mated more naturally. If Miss. Juno had been a young man, instead of a very charming woman,
she would of course have been Paul's chum. If Paul had been a young woman--some of his friends
thought he had narrowly escaped it and did not hesitate to say so--he would instinctively have
become her confidante. As it was, they promptly entered into a sympathetic friendship which
seemed to have been without beginning and was apparently to be without end.

They began to talk of the same things at the same moment, often uttering the very same words
and then turned to one another with little shouts of unembarrassed laughter. They agreed upon
all points, and aroused each other to a ridiculous pitch of enthusiasm over nothing in particular.

Harry English beamed; there was evidently nothing wanted to complete his happiness. Mrs. English,
her eyes fairly dancing with delight, could only exclaim at intervals, "Bless the boy!" or,
"What a pair of children!" then fondly pass her arm about the waist of Miss. Juno--which was
not waspish in girth--or rest her hand upon Paul's shoulder with a show of maternal affection
peculiarly grateful to him. It was with difficulty the half-dazed young fellow could keep apart
from Miss. Juno. If he found she had wandered into the next room, while he was engaged for
a moment, he followed at his earliest convenience, and when their eyes met they smiled responsively
without knowing why, and indeed not caring in the least to know.

They were as ingenuous as two children in their liking for one another; their trust in each
other would have done credit to the Babes in the Wood. What Paul realized, without any preliminary
analysis of his mind or heart, was that he wanted to be near her, very near her; and that he
was miserable when this was not the case. If she was out of his sight for a moment the virtue
seemed to have gone from him and he fell into the pathetic melancholy which he enjoyed in the
days when he wrote a great deal of indifferent verse, and was burdened with the conviction
that his mission in life was to make rhymes without end.

In those days, he had acquired the habit of pitying himself. The emotional middle-aged woman
is apt to encourage the romantic young man in pitying himself; it is a grewsome habit, and
stands sturdily in the way of all manly effort. Paul had outgrown it to a degree, but there
is nothing easier in life than a relapse--perhaps nothing so natural, yet often so unexpected.

Too soon the friends who had driven Miss. Juno to Thespian Lodge and passed on--being unacquainted
with the Englishes--called to carry her away with them. She was shortly--in a day or two in
fact--to rejoin her parents, and she did not hesitate to invite Paul to pay them a visit. This
he assured her he would do with pleasure, and secretly vowed that nothing on earth should prevent
him. They shook hands cordially at parting, and were still smiling their baby smiles in each
other's faces when they did it. Paul leaned against the door-jamb, while the genial Harry and
his wife followed his new-found friend to the carriage, where they were duly presented to its
occupants--said occupants promising to place Thespian Lodge upon their list. As the carriage
whirled away, Miss. Juno waved that exquisitely gloved hand from the window and Paul's heart
beat high; somehow he felt as if he had never been quite so happy. And this going away struck
him as being a rather cruel piece of business. To tell the whole truth, he couldn't understand
why she should go at all.

He felt it more and more, as he sat at dinner with his old friends, the Englishes, and ate
with less relish than common the delicious Yorkshire pudding and drank the musty ale. He felt
it as he accompanied his friends to the theater, where he sat with Mrs. English, while she
watched with pride the husband whose impersonations she was never weary of witnessing; but
Paul seemed to see him without recognizing him, and even the familiar voice sounded unfamiliar,
or like a voice in a dream. He felt it more and more when good Mrs. English gave him a nudge
toward the end of the evening and called him "a stupid," half in sport and half in earnest;
and when he had delivered that excellent woman into the care of her liege lord and had seen
them securely packed into the horse-car that was to drag them tediously homeward in company
with a great multitude of suffocating fellow-sufferers, he felt it; and all the way out the
dark street and up the hill that ran, or seemed to run, into outer darkness--where his home
was--he felt as if he had never been the man he was until now, and that it was all for her
sake and through her influence that this sudden and unexpected transformation had come to pass.
And it seemed to him that if he were not to see her again, very soon, his life would be rendered
valueless; and that only to see her were worth all the honor and glory that he had ever aspired
to in his wildest dreams; and that to be near her always and to feel that he were much--nay,
everything--to her, as before God he felt that at that moment she was to him, would make his
life one long Elysium, and to death would add a thousand stings.

II

Saadi had no hand in it, yet all Persia could not outdo it. The whole valley ran to roses.
They covered the earth; they fell from lofty trellises in fragrant cataracts; they played over
the rustic arbors like fountains of color and perfume; they clambered to the cottage roof and
scattered their bright petals in showers upon the grass. They were of every tint and texture;
of high and low degree, modest or haughty as the case might be--but roses all of them, and
such roses as California alone can boast. And some were fat or passé, and more's the pity,
but all were fragrant, and the name of that sweet vale was Santa Rosa.

Paul was in the garden with Miss. Juno. He had followed her thither with what speed he dared.
She had expected him; there was not breathing-space for conventionality between these two.
In one part of the garden sat an artist at his easel; by his side a lady somewhat his senior,
but of the type of face and figure that never really grows old, or looks it. She was embroidering
flowers from nature, tinting them to the life, and rivaling her companion in artistic effects.
These were the parents of Miss. Juno--or rather not quite that. Her mother had been twice married;
first, a marriage of convenience darkened the earlier years of her life; Miss. Juno was the
only reward for an age of domestic misery. A clergyman joined these parties--God had nothing
to do with the compact; it would seem that he seldom has. A separation very naturally and very
properly followed in the course of time; a young child was the only possible excuse for the
delay of the divorce. Thus are the sins of the fathers visited upon the grandchildren. Then
came a marriage of love. The artist who having found his ideal had never known a moment's weariness,
save when he was parted from her side. Their union was perfect; God had joined them. The stepfather
to Miss. Juno had always been like a big brother to her--even as her mother had always seemed
like an elder sister.

Oh, what a trio was that, my countrymen, where liberty, fraternity and equality joined hands
without howling about it and making themselves a nuisance in the nostrils of their neighbors!

Miss. Juno stood in a rose-arbor and pointed to the artists at their work.

"Did you ever see anything like that, Paul?"

"Like what?"

"Like those sweet simpletons yonder. They have for years been quite oblivious of the world
about them. Thrones might topple, empires rise and fall, it would matter nothing to them so
long as their garden bloomed, and the birds nested and sung, and he sold a picture once in
an age that the larder might not go bare."

"I've seen something like it, Miss. Juno. I've seen fellows who never bothered themselves about
the affairs of others,--who, in short, minded their own business strictly--and they got credit
for being selfish."

"Were they happy?"

"Yes, in their way. Probably their way wasn't my way, and their kind of happiness would bore
me to death. You know happiness really can't be passed around, like bon-bons or sherbet, for
every one to taste. I hate bon-bons: do you like them?"

"That depends upon the quality and flavor--and--perhaps somewhat upon who offers them. I never
buy bon-bons for my private and personal pleasure. Do any of you fellows really care for bon-bons?"

"That depends upon the kind of happiness we are in quest of; I mean the quality and flavor
of the girl we are going to give them to."

"Have girls a flavor?"

"Some of them have--perhaps most of them haven't; neither have they form nor feature, nor tint
nor texture, nor anything that appeals to a fellow of taste and sentiment."

"I'm sorry for these girls of yours----"

"You needn't be sorry for the girls; they are not my girls, and not one of them ever will be
mine if I can help it----"

"Oh, indeed!"

"They are nothing to me, and I'm nothing to them; but they are just--they are just the formless
sort of thing that a formless sort of fellow always marries; they help to fill up the world,
you know."

"Yes, they help to fill a world that is overfull already. Poor Mama and Eugene don't know how
full it is. When Gene wants to sell a picture and can't, he thinks it's a desert island."

"Probably they could live on a desert island and be perfectly happy and content," said Paul.

