All under the house runs a great cellar. I knew this from the first, because one broiling hot
day, soon after I came, Sally took me down to get cool after I had dressed for somebody's At
Home, and looked like a freshly boiled lobster. It's a series of rooms, perfectly ventilated,
with rough walls, and cemented floors. One of the rooms is of enormous size, and there are
stone pillars dotted about here and there for supports. There is one other that is rather large,
but the rest are small. One is used as if it were an ice house; there are others for wine;
and there are some storerooms. For a week before the Great Affair men were working down there
all day, and towards the last far into the night. Big boxes and bales were lugged down stairs,
and didn't come up again. Not a hint went round of what was going on, but I was sure that Aladdin's
Cave was in mysterious process of manufacture.

There seemed quite a pressure on the atmosphere for days at The Moorings, except in Sally Woodburn's
rooms, for I've noticed that she is never excited by social events. They seem of little real
importance to her, I suppose, compared with the past which she has always in her thoughts.
When I was with her I felt calmer; but with others, or when I was alone (which seldom happened
for more than ten minutes at a stretch) I was as much excited as anybody. Partly it may have
been the effect of climate, for the air in America certainly does make you feel always as if
something wonderful was going to happen to you round the next corner; and partly it was the
effect of Potter.

Potter was most disturbing--and is still, for that matter. He has the air of feeling that he
and he alone has a right to me, and it's quite a lesson in tact keeping the peace between him
and other men who feel it their Christian duty to be a little nice to a young foreigner.

But I am thinking now of the time before the Great Affair. It really was a strain wondering
what it would be like, and whether it would be a grand success, or whether it would fall short
of all the brilliant expectations, when the mystery should be revealed.

At last the night came. The invitations were for ten o'clock, and people could not resist the
temptation to come soon after the hour, and begin. Mrs. Ess Kay stood in the Early English
drawing-room (that's the style it's furnished in, or she believes it is) receiving without
a mask, and dressed to represent Queen Margaret of Navarre, from whom she says that she is
descended. She had another dress to put on afterwards, so that none of the guests would recognise
her, and she could have fun with the rest, but no one knew about that except Sally and Potter,
and me.

We others didn't appear at first, because we had no costumes to change with, but by and by,
when a lot of people had arrived, we mingled with them.

As soon as anyone came in, Mrs. Ess Kay would say, "How do you do, my Lord of Leicester, or
my noble George Washington," or whatever the person might be trying to be. "So glad to see
you. You must go and have a look at the Maze. Do you know how to find it? Just through that
curtain. You can't miss the way."

Then the gorgeous masker would cross the hall, and disappear behind a great curtain of tapestry
that covered an open doorway leading to the garden. But he hadn't to go out of doors. A canvas
covered, winding passage took him to the vast marquee, which was, of course, the Maze. But
why it was the Maze, and what happened to you in the Maze after you had got in, I didn't know
any more than the outsiders. That was the fun of it for me, of course; and it really was fun.

Sally had only taken enough pains about her dress to save annoying Mrs. Ess Kay. She was a
White Carmelite, with a veil over her face instead of a mask. But Potter had made a tremendous
fuss about himself. He was Flame, which he said was appropriate in the circumstances, as he
had got so used to playing Fire to my Frost, he felt quite at home in the character. And he
was very magnificent. He had designed the costume himself, for he fancies himself at that sort
of thing; and my white sparkling robes, and his scarlet satin and carbuncle embroidery, and
copper and gold fringes did look rather effective side by side.

He made that an excuse for insisting that I should go with him into the Maze, although a tall
Hamlet and a Henry V. of England both wanted to take me.

Potter whisked me away from them somehow, and we passed under the tapestry curtains while one
of the two Hungarian bands Mrs. Ess Kay had hired played a waltz which made me long to dance.

"This way to the Maze; this way to the Maze," a man dressed like a Beefeater was continually
saying. He stood just outside the door, in a kind of canvas vestibule, lined with greenery,
so that it looked like the entrance to a bower.

The passage to the marquee had been made so beautiful, that I couldn't help crying out to Potter
with admiration. Not an inch of the canvas showed, for we walked through a sort of tunnel of
roses, all lit up with invisible electric lights. It was like the way to fairyland; and the
floor was covered with a mat of artificial grass, like they have for stage lawns, Potter said.

I thought, when we came to the end of the rose-tunnel, we should find ourselves in a big open
space in the marquee, but when the tunnel stopped, we were in a narrow alley between tall green
bushes, set so thickly and so close together that we couldn't see what was on the other side.
Above us, instead of the canvas roof of the marquee (which must have been over all), a violet
mist seemed to float, with a very faint, soft light filtering through it, like blue moonlight.
I suppose it must have been ever and ever so many thicknesses of blue gauze, with shaded lights
hanging above, but the effect was mysterious and alluring.

We had only gone on a little way when we arrived at a tiny house built apparently of red flowers;
and there was a red light coming out of the one little window. "The Witch of the Woods Lives
Here," said a card on the door.

We pushed, and inside was a room, with a young woman in white, crystal-gazing as hard as she
could. She had also a velvet cushion on which you laid your hand, and she told your character
and your fortune. Some people in historical dress were ready to come out just as we were going
in, and one of them said, "It's Madame Cortelyn. Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox must have given her at
least five hundred dollars or she wouldn't have come a step."

We had our hands done, and the Witch of the Woods told me that I had come from "across the
water," but that I would marry a man on this side; and then she saw some one in the crystal
who looked so exactly like Potter Parker, that I wished I had stopped outside her red house.

After this, we kept losing ourselves in different green-walled paths, and suddenly coming on
booths where variety entertainments were going on; or funny cardboard pagodas, where celebrated
Japanese artists did your portrait in five minutes on rice paper; or silk tents with conjuring
shows. And there was a place where you fished in a small round pond with magnets and caught
little metal frogs with jewels in their heads, which you picked out. Farther on was a miniature
Eastern bazaar where girls in gauze danced, while you drank Turkish coffee and pushed spoonfuls
of sherbet under the lace on your mask. And there was a kinematograph entertainment of a bull
fight, which I wouldn't look at, and some martyrs being reluctantly eaten by lions; and Otero
dancing.

All the masked people we met were enjoying themselves very much, and saying this was the best
thing for years. And it really was fun, but at last I thought we must have seen it all, and
I wanted to go out. Besides, I was tired of being with Potter, who would be sentimental, though
I begged him not.

"How do you propose to escape?" he asked. "This is a Maze. The proper dodge in a Maze is to
be lost, and I am lost. So are you. We're lost together."

"But I want to be found now," said I. "We've been lost long enough. There are lots of other
things to do."

"And there's all night to do them in," said Potter. "I daresay we shall be lost for an hour
or so yet. We've been wandering around from one path to another, and we've never seen the same
thing twice, so perhaps there's a lot more to explore."

"You must know," I said. "It wasn't kept a secret from you, as it was from me. You must have
been through this Maze heaps of times, and of course you know the way out."

"If I did, I've forgotten it," Potter coolly remarked. Then he changed his tone. "You make
me forget everything, Betty--everything but yourself."

"You're not to call me Betty!" I said crossly, for I was tired of having conversations turned
like that. And I thought that I would be having much more fun with someone else; for what is
the good of wearing a mask, if you are only to talk with people you know?

"There's something else I'd a great deal sooner call you," he half whispered. "Come into this
little dell where the fountain is, and the orange trees, and let me tell you."

"I don't want to know," I said.

"Yes, you do. Come along, anyhow, and I'll pick you an orange. Perhaps there'll be something
nice inside it, like there was in the toad's head."

I wasn't to be bribed in that way, but he took hold of my hand, and pulled, so that I had to
go with him unless I wished to resist and be silly. Several people were coming towards us round
the twist of the path, and one tall man ahead of the others, dressed very plainly like a Puritan,
was looking hard at us. Rather than make a scene, I went quietly with Potter; but as soon as
he had whisked me into the little dell with the orange trees and the fountain, he pushed one
of the trees, and it moved forward in a groove, so as to block up the entrance and hide the
dell from anyone who walked along the path.

"That's not a bad trick, is it?" said he. "I had that arranged on purpose."

"On purpose for what?" I was silly enough to ask.

"To bring you here, and get you to myself. This is Betty's Bower; but nobody knows it except
you and me."

With that, he pulled off his mask, and made as if he would help me to do the same with mine,
but I stepped back, and almost tumbled over into the fountain. Perhaps I would, if he hadn't
caught me round the waist; but instead of letting go when he had steadied me on my feet, he
drew me closer to him. I gave a twist and a little angry cry, and just then, to my joy, someone
from outside pushed the orange tree back in its groove so as to leave an opening again.

I darted out, and caught a glimpse of the tall Puritan man who was apparently engaged in pulling
the tree forward so as to close the gap and shut Potter in.

It was so quick, that I hardly had time to understand whether it was being done for my sake
or not, but I didn't stop to think; I simply ran. I met harlequins, and queens, kings and columbines
hunting in couples (the green alleys were only broad enough for two), but I pushed by them
and went flitting down path after path, though voices called after me, and people pretended
to shiver with cold as Frost passed.

Then, suddenly, "I think this is a way out," said a voice I knew, speaking just behind me.
It was the voice of my brown man. I could have recognised it among thousands. But when I looked,
it was the tall figure of the grey Puritan who had helped me to get away from Potter Parker.

I didn't answer a word; not even to say "Thank you"; or "Is this really you, Mr. Brett?" I
just went in the direction he said, and in another minute I was out under the Italian pergola,
draped with roses and wistaria, that runs for a long way overlooking the sea. Then I glanced
over my shoulder, and he was there, but hesitating as if he hadn't decided whether to come
with me, or go back.

When I saw this, I did stop and mumble in a low voice, "It is you, isn't it, Mr. Brett?"

"Yes," he answered. "I hope you forgive me?"

"Oh, I thank you," said I. "I--wanted to come away. But how did you know that--and how did
you know me?"

"I couldn't help seeing that you were being pretty well forced to do something you didn't want
to do," he replied, coming a few steps nearer; and there seemed to be nobody under the pergola
except just us two. "I don't suppose I had any right to be angry at seeing that happen, but
I was. So I did what I did on the spur of the moment. As for recognising you--I--well, you're
rather tall, you know, and have a way of holding your head that--that isn't easily forgotten."

"I'm sorry I'm so badly disguised," I said, laughing. "But I'm glad you knew me. I'm so glad,
too, that I'm out here. I began to have--quite a stifled feeling. How lovely it is in this
pergola, isn't it? Do you think we might walk for a few minutes--and get cool?"

"May I walk with you?" he asked, in a humble sort of way, that gave me a funny little pain
in my heart.

"Please do," I said quickly, and as cordially as I could--far more cordially than I would have
spoken to any man in Mrs. Ess Kay's set. "It's nice to see you here to-night."

"You must be very much surprised."

I had said "Yes," before I stopped to think; and then I was sorry, because it showed that I
was thinking he did not belong in such a scene as this. But it was too late to go back, so
I went on, instead. "It's a good surprise."

"It's more than kind of you not quite to have forgotten a waif like me," he said.

"I shall never forget you," said I. "Why, of course, I couldn't." And I noticed that my voice
sounded quite earnest, just as I felt; but I wasn't sure that I ought to let him know--even
if he was poor and unlucky--that I did feel so sincerely about it. "There's Vivace, you know,
for one reason."

"What about Vivace?"

"Oh, you needn't pretend; because I was sure you gave him to me, and I wanted so much to write
to that Club and thank you, only I thought as you had put no name, perhaps I'd better not.
I must tell you now, though; I can't think how you came to be so kind."

"It was one of the greatest pleasures I have ever had. You were kind not to be offended with
me. I didn't mean to take a liberty. I thought you would like the little chap."

"I love him dearly. Often I should have been dreadfully homesick if it hadn't been for him.
He always seems to understand if I feel gloomy, and he does his dear little brindled best to
cheer me up."

"Vivace is a lucky and happy dog."

"But don't you miss him?"

"No. For I like to think that you have him. You see, you were very kind to me, when I was in
a hard position, and a good deal down on my luck. There was nothing I could do to show how
I appreciated it--until I thought of Vivace. It was our little talk on the dock, about 'finding
a lost dog,' that put the idea into my head."

"I guessed as much," said I, laughing. "It was that made me sure at once who it was I had to
thank for Vivace. And--I was glad he had been yours. After what I'd seen you do on board ship,
you know, I--I honoured you. And I feel proud to think that--we are friends."

"You think of me as your friend?" he asked, in a voice that showed he was glad, or excited,
or something that wasn't quite calm.

"Indeed, I do think of you so," I assured him. "And you've proved your friendship for me three
times. Once on the dock. Once, by giving up dear Vivace for me. And now again to-night, when
you came to my rescue. I was--really bored in there, you know. And people seem to give themselves
so much liberty in--in their jokes when they're masked."

"I have to thank the masks for being at Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's house to-night," said Jim Brett.
"You must be wondering how they let me in, considering that, on account of the masks, everybody
had to show their invitation cards at the gates. I had mine all right. But--there are such
things as newspaper reporters, as you know to your sorrow. I don't say I am here in that capacity;
but I leave you to draw your own conclusions."

"What fun!" I exclaimed.

"It is fun now; I had no right to dare, but I did dare to hope that I might have a glimpse
of you. I was sure that I should recognise you."

"If I'd dreamed of your being here, I should have recognised you," I said. "You're taller than
any other man here, I think."

"Men grow tall in the West, where I come from."

"And strong."

"Yes, and strong, too--thank God."

"And brave."

"Men are brave all the world over."

"I should think there are none braver than you, Mr. Brett," I said.

"It's glorious for a man like me to hear such kind words from a girl like you, though I don't
deserve them," he answered. "But I shall try to deserve them. All my life I shall be better
for having heard them from your lips. You can hardly guess what it is to me. Perhaps the thing
that comes nearest to it, would be if a prisoner for life in some dark pit heard a voice of
sympathy speaking to him--actually to him--from a high white star."

"Oh, don't speak of yourself as a prisoner in the dark!" I cried.

"What else am I, when I stop to reflect how hopelessly I must be removed by circumstances from
glorious heights--where stars shine."

"But there can be nothing in your circumstances, Mr. Brett," I insisted, eagerly, "which need
remove you from any heights. I wonder you--so brave and strong, and an American, too--can say
that of yourself. Why, you can reach anything, do anything you really wish, if you just want
it enough."

"Do you, an English girl, a daughter of the aristocracy, tell me that?" he asked.

"I do. As if that makes any difference--any real, true difference, I mean, when it comes to
the heart of things. Oh, I've been thinking of such matters a great deal lately. I suppose
because I'm among Americans. It must be that which has put the subject so much in my head."

"Tell me what you have been thinking."

"Oh, I can hardly tell. But for one thing, I've begun to see that a man--a man like you, for
instance, Mr. Brett--oughtn't to call himself unlucky because he's poor, and has perhaps not
been able to have as many advantages as richer men. He ought simply to feel that he has it
in him to make himself equal in every way with the highest."

"You mean, he can 'hustle,' as the saying is with us, and get rich, so as to stand on an equality
with millionaires?"

"No, it wasn't money I was thinking about. I've met a good many millionaires since I've been
here, but I've seen none whom you need look upon as your superior. What I mean is that you've
only to be ambitious enough, and not feel that you're handicapped by your start, to attain
to what you want in life--yes, whatever it may be."

"You mean all this, Lady Betty?" he asked quickly. "You have as much faith as that in me?"

"Yes," I answered; and the stars and the sea seemed to sing with my thoughts. I felt uplifted,
somehow. It was a wonderful sensation, which it would be impossible to describe. But I had
an exciting impression that Jim Brett shared it. The music of the Hungarian band flowed out
from the house, and beat in my blood. His voice sounded as if it beat in his, too.

"You can't dream what my ambitions are, or maybe you wouldn't say that."

"I'm sure they would only be noble ones."

"It's true; they are noble. Yet you might not approve. But they're part of my life. I couldn't
give them up now, and live."

"I should like to hear about them," I said, almost more to myself than to him.

"Some day, if we meet again--and I mean we shall, since you have called me friend--perhaps
you will let me tell you about them. I shall ask you to listen. But not now. I daren't now.
The time hasn't come. Only promise me this, Lady Betty; that you won't forget me; that you'll
think of me kindly, sometimes."

"I do think of you very often," I said, "and talk about you to Vivace. Poor little Vivace.
He doesn't forget. How he did whimper when I had to drag him away from you that day in the
wistaria arbour at Central Park. This isn't unlike that arbour, is it? There's wistaria here
too. I believe I shall always think of that day when I see wistaria. It is odd we should meet
again next time in a place so much the same--and just as unexpectedly."

"Just as unexpectedly," echoed Mr. Brett, in an odd, thoughtful tone. "It's wonderful that
we should meet at all--considering everything." Then he laughed, rather bitterly, I thought.
"Aren't you afraid of me, Lady Betty, after your experience of journalists--since I've half
hinted to you I may be acting in that capacity to-night?"

"Afraid of you?" I repeated, laughing. "As if I could be. I would trust you in everything."

As I said that, a lot of people came out of the Maze in the marquee, by the exit Mr. Brett
had found for me. They streamed into the dimly lighted pergola, in their fantastic costumes,
laughing and talking, and the beautiful peace of the blue night--broken only by the throb of
distant music--was gone completely.

I had thought of taking off my mask, but I was glad now that I'd kept it on.

They came towards us, all in great spirits, having a game of "Follow my Leader," and their
leader, a Chinese Mandarin, was offering to guide them to the Cave of Aladdin. I was glad that
the Flame Spirit wasn't in the gay procession. Evidently he had missed me, and gone some other
way; or else he was too angry to wish to find me again.

The crowd stopped to speak to us, making jokes in disguised voices. Some of the things they
said made me feel that it would be uncomfortable to linger behind with the Puritan, when they
had passed on.

"Let's join them, shall we?" I asked. "They're going to Aladdin's Cave. Wouldn't you like to
see it?"

"Yes," he said. And we followed the wild party, at a discreet distance.

We went into the house again, by a roundabout way, and it wasn't until we were in the big hall
that we learned just how Aladdin's Cave was to be found. On a background of dark red flowers,
made into a great shield and hung over a door, glittered and scintillated three words, in electric
light, "To Aladdin's Cave." The letters had been lighted up only since I had been gone, for
I suppose the idea was to make everyone go into the Maze first.

We had to pass through several rooms and corridors, all of which had been emptied of furniture
and lined with canvas scenery cleverly painted to illustrate events in the story of Aladdin.
Everything was shown up to the time that Aladdin went down into the Cave at the bidding of
the magician disguised as his "uncle"; and then came the entrance of the cave itself, which
was done in imitation rockwork. But I knew that it was the way down to the cellar. Either the
stairs had been removed, or else covered up with a theatrical kind of embankment, that made
a winding path, twisting back and forth under a roof of the imitation rock, and sloping always
downward. At the bottom was a screen of spun glass, made to look like a falling cataract of
bright water, and until you had passed out from behind it you saw nothing except a glow of
rosy light filtering through the transparent glass. But when you did come out, unless you were
a stick or a stone, you couldn't resist giving an "Oh!" of surprised admiration.

The whole cellar--at least all of it that was left visible--had been turned into a fairy cave
of jewels. The walls and ceiling looked like rocks studded with blazing rubies and flashing
diamonds. The rough pillars which supported the floor of the house above were great sparkling
stalactites and stalagmites. The cemented floor was covered with sand that glittered like diamond
dust, and there were fruit trees and rose bushes, rows of tall hollyhocks, and buds of tulips
all apparently made of illuminated jewels, something like the transformation scene in a Pantomime
they once took me to see--only a hundred times prettier.

At the far end of the Cave a bright red light kept coming and going, but I couldn't see by
what it was made, because of the laughing crowd collected round it. We went nearer, and as
others moved away we took their places, so that at last we saw what caused the light and made
the great attraction for the people.

It was a giant lamp of a strange shape, standing up to the height of four or five feet from
the floor, on a pedestal; and behind it stood the Genie, a fearful and wonderful apparition
who said things, in a deep bass voice, which made everybody shout with laughter. "It's Fred
Kane, the great Funny Man," said somebody.

The Genie's witticisms came whenever anyone rubbed the lamp, which each person was requested
to do, as he or she approached. While it was being rubbed the magic lamp flared up, and gave
out the bright red light we'd seen at a distance, and simultaneously the Genie took something
from a huge sequin covered bag he had looped over one of his arms. If the person who rubbed
the lamp was a man, he dipped into the left hand bag; if a woman, he dived into the right hand
one. Each time a beautiful trinket came out, and was presented with a low bow and an excruciatingly
funny speech, suitable to the character which the person had undertaken for the evening. His
wit never failed.

Mr. Brett and I went up together. The Genie crossed arms and grabbed something for us out of
both his bags at the same time. Then, by mistake, he gave me the thing from the left hand bag,
and Mr. Brett the one from the right. We walked away to let others have their chance, looking
at the presents we had got. It was funny, they both happened to be rings.

Mine was twisted bands of platinum and gold, forming a knot to hold a cabuchon sapphire. His
was a thin setting for seven stones, set in a straight row; diamond, emerald, amethyst, ruby,
emerald, sapphire, topaz.

"Yours is meant for a woman, and mine for a man," I said. "He got them out of the wrong bags.
But they're both pretty, and so queer."

"Will you--shall we change?" he asked.

"Oh, I didn't mean to suggest that," I hurried to say. "I can give mine to my brother when
I go home. And you--there must be some one----"

"I've no sister. And there's no one else," said Mr. Brett. "Do have it. You see, I couldn't
get it on my little finger. And won't you keep the big one too? It isn't as if I were like
Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's other guests----"

I couldn't bear to hear him say that, so I broke in and insisted that he should have the ring.
"She would want you to have it of course, if she knew," I said. "And besides, I want you to,
which is something."

"It's everything," he answered.

Then we changed rings, and I told him that I hoped his would bring him luck, glorious luck.

"Do you wish it may give me what I want most in the world?" he asked; and I said that I did.

"What do you wish mine may give me?" I went on.

"What do you want most? Great wealth?" he questioned me.

I shook my head.

"To have the world at your feet?"

"I shouldn't know what to do with it."

"To have the one you love best on earth love you?"

"I should have to stop and think which one it is."

"Then I wish that you may love the one who loves you best on earth and more than all the world."

Just as I was looking up, surprised at his tone more than his words, there came a burst of
music, and part of the wall, with the platform on which the Genie and his Lamp had been standing,
rolled away. The other big room of the cellar was revealed, with quantities of little tables
all laid out for supper, and the walls covered with smilax and roses. In the middle of this
new room was a huge illuminated ship of ice, in a green sea.

Everybody exclaimed and laughed in their surprise at such an unexpected transformation. Now
was the time for unmasking, of course, and there were shrieks of surprise and amusement as
people discovered who their companions really were. For a minute--I'm sure it couldn't have
been more--I forgot Mr. Brett, to stare at the great glittering ice ship. When I turned to
speak to him, he was gone. And whether he vanished on purpose, because he didn't want to unmask
in a company of strange people, or whether he was separated from me by the sudden press of
the crowd, I don't know. I suppose I shall never know. I only know that I lost him, and that
I was immediately surrounded by other men, saying nice things about my costume, wanting me
to have supper with them, and asking me for dances afterwards.

The rest of the night went by with a wild rush. We didn't stop dancing till four, we young
people; and I believe the older ones played bridge. We had a second supper served upstairs
towards dawn, and when the last people went away, it was broad and glorious daylight.

"Well, deah," said Sally, cosily, when everyone had gone, and she had come into my room to
help me undress. "Had you a good time?"

"Splendid!" said I, sighing with joy. "I'm dancing still--in my head. My first ball!"

"Katherine doesn't call it a ball. But that's a detail. Had you any proposals?"

"Oh, Sally, how came you to think of such a thing? But isn't it too extraordinary? I had three."

"Why extraordinary?"

"Because I hardly knew the men!"

"Americans make up their minds quickly about what they want."

"So Mr. P--So I've been told."

"Accept anyone?"

"Not I."

"Didn't even give them a wee mite of hope?"

"Dear me, no."

"Poor Potter--for one."

"Sally, I do wish he wouldn't--do that sort of thing, since you speak of it. It makes it so
embarrassing. And somehow, I don't feel he really means it. I've always the impression that--that
he does it because he thinks he ought."

"He'd like to marry you, Betty. There's no doubt of that. And one can't blame him for it."

"Well, if he keeps on, I shall be driven away," I said. "Although they don't want me to go
home yet, for--for several reasons. I don't want to go, either. I'm having a wonderful experience.
But----"

"Haven't you met any man you could imagine yourself caring for, deah? Or, perhaps, you don't
fancy Americans."

"Oh, I do," I exclaimed. "They're all great fun. And one--one man I've met I think superior
to any other I ever knew. But then, I've known so few, and I don't know him well. You needn't
look at me like that. It isn't a romance, you dear. I'm most unlikely to know him any better,
ever. He--isn't like the rest. He isn't like anybody else I ever saw."

"Now," said Sally, coaxingly, "you might tell me if he's one of the three who proposed?"

"Indeed, he isn't, and he never will. Why, Sally, I don't mind telling you I mean that Mr.
Brett, who was on the ship, and whom we met afterwards accidentally in the Park. He is rather
wonderful--considering his station--isn't he?"

"He'd be rather wonderful in any station. That's my theory about him."

"I think it's mine, too. He was here to-night--as a newspaper reporter, he hinted, though he
didn't exactly say he was, in so many words. Did he talk to you?"

"Yes," said Sally. "Indirectly, I got him his chance to come."

"I gave him good advice," said I, laughing. "All about his future, and ambition, and things
like that. I hope he'll take it."

"He'll probably try all he knows. Did he thank you prettily?"

"I'm not sure whether he thanked me at all. But he gave me this ring, and wished me luck with
it. It was the Genie's present to him in Aladdin's Cave. I changed with him, for the one I
had. But this is much prettier. Look."

"D-E-A-R-E-S-T, Dearest," Sally spelt out, as she held the third finger of my right hand, on
which I'd slipped the ring.

"Where do you find that?" I asked quickly.

"Don't you know? Why, the stones spell it. Diamond, emerald, amethyst, ruby, emerald, sapphire,
topaz."

I felt my cheeks burn when she gave me this explanation.

I wonder if Mr. Brett knew?

XII

ABOUT A WEDDING AND A DISASTER

It's more than a fortnight since I've been able to write about any of the things that have
happened to me. The last I did was on the morning after the Great Affair, when we were looking
forward to the Pink Ball in the evening. Mrs. Ess Kay didn't quite have her wish, for the ball
was a moderate success; but it did seem a pale pink after the gorgeousness of the night before,
and it might have been still paler (as everyone felt rather washed out) if it hadn't been for
one special excitement. Mohunsleigh's engagement to Carolyn Pitchley was announced, and we
were told that the wedding would have to be soon, as Mohunsleigh had had news which called
him back to England, and he wanted to take his bride with him.

Before I stopped to think, I'd promised Carolyn to be one of her bridesmaids; but five minutes
later I would almost have liked to change my mind, because of Potter. He was asked to be an
usher. (I didn't know at the time what that meant, but I had a vague impression it was something
of importance at American weddings) so that I was sure to see a lot of him if I were bridesmaid,
and in any case, I was beginning to feel he might make it too awkward for me to visit much
longer with Mrs. Ess Kay.

However, when on second thoughts, I tried to get out of my promise, by hinting that I might
have to go home, Carolyn seemed ready to cry and said that if I threw her over it would spoil
everything. The wedding would be in ten days, and surely, I hadn't been thinking of going back
to England as soon as that?

It was quite true, I hadn't. And more than that, I knew I shouldn't be welcome at home. I made
up my mind to get through somehow, and told Carolyn I had only been joking.

She had always wanted to be married at Grace Church in New York, but New York is no place for
August weddings, if an August wedding you must have; so Carolyn's invitations, which appeared
almost immediately after the engagement was announced, told everyone that Mr. and Mrs. Pitchley
begged them to be present at their daughter's marriage in the drawing room of the Château de
Plaisance.

I didn't know that you could be married in a drawing room, but it seems you can, quite properly.
However, when I go home I don't think I'd better say much about that part of Mohunsleigh's
wedding, or some of the old-fashioned people mightn't understand. I should hate them to get
the idea just because of the drawing room, that poor Carolyn was morganatic, or something.

She seemed ecstatically happy, more than I could imagine any girl being if she had to marry
Mohunsleigh, who, although a dear good fellow when you know him, isn't a bit romantic. But
he suddenly blossomed out into all sorts of pleasant American ways, sent Caro flowers and things
every day, though I fancy he couldn't afford it, gave her a lovely solitaire diamond ring,
which I'm sure he couldn't, and a "guard," an heirloom in his family.

It would have been shocking, Carolyn said, for her to be seen anywhere after the invitations
were out, though I can't think why, as she didn't seem at all ashamed of marrying Mohunsleigh,
but rather the contrary, and asked me hundreds of questions about what she would have to do
when she was a Countess. Fortunately, though, she had lots of things to keep her busy indoors,
trying on such frocks as she could get made in a hurry, and writing letters to every girl she
knew, announcing her engagement.

The funniest things about the whole affair were--for me--the ushers, the rehearsals for the
wedding, and having a married woman as a sort of head bridesmaid. Carolyn's best girl chum
was married herself in the spring, so she had to be what they call a Matron of Honour.

It seemed horribly irreverent to rehearse for the ceremony, but nobody else thought so, except
Mohunsleigh and me, and Mohunsleigh said in confidence, that he'd found out the bridegroom
was a mere lay figure at a wedding,--anyhow in America,--and he intended to let Caro do exactly
as she liked until after they were married. Then she might have to find out that once in a
while it would be just as well if she did what he liked. But he asked me not to mention this
to Carolyn and her stepmother, so I didn't. And in spite of my objection, the rehearsals were
interesting. I felt as if I oughtn't to laugh and joke, but the others all did tremendously,
so I did too in the end.

Mohunsleigh was disappointed because that Californian friend of his (whom he would have visited
if it hadn't been for falling in love unexpectedly and getting married) couldn't come and be
his best man. He urged him, but something interfered, Mohunsleigh didn't tell us what, and
Mr. Jameson B. Harborough wasn't even able to come to the wedding. I was disappointed, too,
as Mohunsleigh had told us such romantic things about his friend, that we all wanted to see
him. Mr. Harborough had been a sailor, and a cowboy, and had left everything to fight in the
Spanish war, where he'd done brave and splendid things, and might have stayed in the army afterwards
as a Captain, if he had liked. But he preferred to go back to his old, free life, and was still
a poor young man until two or three years ago, when some land in which he'd invested a few
savings, turned out to have gold in it--quantities of gold, gold enough to make a famous mine,
and give Mr. Harborough a great fortune. Sally knew a good deal about the new millionaire,
too. It seemed that cousins of his in the West somewhere were acquaintances of hers, and had
told her how immensely he had been sought out and flattered in San Francisco and other places,
since he'd become rich. He hated it so much that he'd gone abroad and stopped a long time wandering
about in strange Eastern countries making friends with Bedouins and people like that, who love
horses better than money, and on account of certain experiences with women, he'd got almost
a morbid horror of falling in love with some girl who would only pretend to like him, while
in reality, all she cared about was his money. Nobody in Mrs. Ess Kay's set knew Jameson B.
Harborough, though everybody would like to, so it was a blow to others beside Mohunsleigh and
me that he couldn't or wouldn't show himself at Newport for the wedding.

With the exception of this one hitch, nothing went wrong so far as the wedding party was concerned,
but with me things began to go very wrong several days before Caro and Mohunsleigh were married.
There was a fuss of some sort between Sally and Mrs. Ess Kay, and Sally came to me, very much
upset, to say that she would have to leave The Moorings immediately, she couldn't stand it
twenty-four hours longer, even for my sake. She had promised to visit a friend in Chicago,
sooner or later, so she would go straight to her, and if anything too tiresome should happen
before I was ready to sail for home, I had better run out there;--the friend would be delighted
to have me. Sally gave me the address, and I told her I would write often, but of course I
didn't dream of having to accept her invitation. I missed her badly, but not as much as if
the wedding had not been so near.

Poor old Mohunsleigh--who knows more about the manners of polar bears than etiquette in American
society,--was coached by Potter; and the night before the wedding rehearsal reluctantly gave
an elaborate dinner to his best man, (an officer in Stan's regiment who happened to turn up)
and the six ushers. The same day Carolyn had her Matron of Honour and the bridesmaids to lunch,
and we did have fun talking over things. I should have thought a luncheon with all girls and
no men might have been a little tame, and perhaps it would in England, but in America girls
are not at all shy. They say just as funny things as men, and take the most beautiful pains
to amuse each other, so that it's impossible to be bored, and for hours on end you forget there
is such a creature as Man.

At home, Mohunsleigh would have had to give us things, of course; but in America, it appears
that the bridegroom makes presents to the best man and the ushers; so it was from Carolyn that
I got a duck of a brooch, like an American flag, with stripes of diamonds and rubies, and the
blue part sapphires. Mohunsleigh said that, as he was awfully hard up, it was bad luck for
him to have to provide each of the bridesmaids with bouquets and chiffon muffs, and he could
not see at all that it was a pretty idea for everything they carried in their hands to come
from the bridegroom. But as Sally had told me that Carolyn's father had settled ten million
dollars on her, I don't think Mohunsleigh need have complained.

Although it was in a house, the wedding was very picturesque, and the bride and groom stood
under a bell of white roses about as large as Big Ben.

I enjoyed it all immensely, for it was my first time as bridesmaid, and I had a lovely frock
and hat (copied from an old picture) for which--when I wanted the bill--I found Sally had paid.
There was a crush at the reception, but it only lasted two hours. After the bride and groom
had gone, with showers of rice and satin slippers, we stayed and had a dance--just the ushers
and bridesmaids and a few young people, who were intimate friends of Carolyn's.

It was then that my greatest troubles began. On a pretence of showing some wedding presents
which he said I hadn't seen because they were in a different room from the others, Potter got
me alone and proposed again. This time he didn't laugh and joke, as he had before, so that
I could take it half in fun even while it made me uncomfortable, but was very serious indeed.
When I wanted to go out he stood in front of the door, and wouldn't let me pass; and his chin
and eyes looked so horribly determined that he was more like Mrs. Ess Kay than ever.

"My dear little ladyship," he said, "you're not going to get away until you've given me my answer."

"But I have given it," said I.

"I don't call what you've given me an answer, because you see, I want you so much, and I've
made up my mind so hard and fast to have you, that I shan't take 'no' for an answer."

"I don't see how you can help it, as it's the only one I have to give, and I've told you that
two dozen times at least," I said, beginning to feel irritable, as I always have from the first,
whenever Potter talked about love.

"I know you have, but that doesn't count. There's no such word as fail in the bright lexicon
of my youth. Look here, dear girl, you don't quite realise perhaps what a good time I'd give
you if you married me. I've got as much money as my sister has, and I'd do just as you liked
about staying in the army. You could have a house in New York, and a whole, real live castle
in your own country, if you liked. I wouldn't care a rap how much you spent on clothes, and
there isn't a woman in America who's got better jewels than you should have--I'd see to that.
Besides, you could do what you chose--for your own people. I couldn't stint you; I want to
be friends with them. I never talked like this to you before, but you see what I mean; and
now, isn't what I've said any inducement?"

"I wouldn't need any such inducements if I loved you," I answered. "But I don't, and can't;
and somehow I never have been able to believe that you really loved me."

"If that's the trouble, you can make your mind easy. I want you badly."

"Then I'm sorry, for--I simply can't marry you. I should be miserable, and so would you."

"I'll risk that. You're too much of an English rosebud to understand anything about love. What
you must do is to trust others who know what you ought to want better than you do yourself.
Your mother, for instance. You'd like to please her--and your sister and brother, wouldn't
you? Well, they all want you to say 'yes' to me."

"How do you know?" I broke out.

"I do know. You can ask Kath if it isn't true."

"I don't want to talk to her about it."

"You needn't, if you'll only be a good girl and do what everybody expects you to do. Come now,
do say yes, and let's be happy."

That did make me furious.

"Anyone would think I was a naughty child, and you were some kind of medicine the whole family
was waiting for me to take!" I exclaimed. "It's a wonder you don't get out your watch and give
me five minutes to do it in."

His eyes began to sparkle with anger. I believe he would have liked to box my ears, and I know
I could have boxed his.

"I thought English girls were brought up to be sensible," said he, "and amiable."

"I can't help what you thought," I answered, rudely, for I was getting desperate. "You've no
right to keep me here like this, and it won't do you a bit of good, for if you stand there
till we're both in our second childhood, I won't change my mind. You ought to know that now,
Mr. Parker. Please let me go."

He didn't move.

"If you don't, I'll scream at the top of my lungs," I said. And he must have seen that I meant
it, for he flung open the door with a slam and I swept past him, with my nose in the air, trying
to look like Mother.

I didn't see him again till it was time to go home. Then he drove back with Mrs. Ess Kay and
me to The Moorings in the shut-up motor car, and didn't open his mouth once on the way--which
was wonderful for him, and seemed somehow ominous.

I had been too angry and excited after that scene of ours to feel unhappy, or to worry much
about what might come next, but that drive, short as it was, with Potter freezingly silent,
and Mrs. Ess Kay alarmingly polite, made me feel that the end had come. I was sure she had
been told by her brother what an obstinate, ungrateful girl I was, and I had a guilty sinking
of the heart, as if I really had been both. There was no Sally to protect me now, no one to
advise me what to do, and there was a big lump in my throat as I said good night and went to
my own room.

I hadn't been there long when there came a knock at the door--the same determined kind of inexorable
knock which Mother gives when I've been found out in something which she thinks it her duty
to make me sorry for.

I'd locked the door, and would have liked to make some excuse not to open it; but it was Mrs.
Ess Kay's door, and Mrs. Ess Kay's room, just as much as it was Mrs. Ess Kay's brother I had
refused.

She sailed in all in black, like an executioner, though of course, executioners don't go down
into history wearing chiffon trimmed with jet.

"My dear Betty," said she, subsiding into a large armchair, "I want to have a serious talk
with you."

It would have been stupid pretending not to understand, so I just looked at her, and waited.

"I daresay, you can guess what it's about?" she went on.

"I suppose so," I said. "I'm very sorry about everything. But I can't help not being in love
with Mr. Parker, can I?"

"I should have thought," said Mrs. Ess Kay, "that your Mother's daughter would have attached
very little importance to being in love. Apparently she hasn't been as successful with you
as with Lady Victoria. Believe me, Betty, there's nothing in it--nothing at all."

"In what?"

"In what you call 'being in love.' A girl fancies a man for his eyes, or his dancing, or because
he is strong, and she thinks she's in love with him, but it's only a fancy which passes before
she's been his wife for twelve months, and she wonders what she ever saw in him then. A year
after you have been married to my brother, you will be very fond of him, and you will be one
of the most important young women in America as well as in Europe. Oh, my dear, you will have
to take him. Your Mother will never forgive you, if you don't. It was quite an understood thing
between us, when she lent you to me, that if possible there was to be a match. Your beauty
and name, and Potter's money. He's really a very good fellow--a temper, perhaps; but I wouldn't
give much for a man without one, and like most Americans, he'll make a splendid husband."

"For someone," I murmured.

"For you, Betty. I assure you, I daren't tell the Duchess you've definitely refused Potter.
You must be persuaded. Be engaged to him; let him follow you to England."

"If I did that, I should find myself being married off to him before I knew."

"Well, and if you did? It would be because you'd had the chance to change your mind."

I shook my head. "I must go home to England," I said, "but Mr. Parker mustn't follow me."

Mrs. Ess Kay's face hardened.

"I'm afraid if you go home after refusing Potter, you'll have a very poor welcome, my child.
The Duchess has been kind enough to take me a little into her confidence. I don't think she
would have sent you over with me, if she hadn't known something about Potter; and your sister's
affairs aren't arranged yet. Oh, you needn't blush, and look so indignant. The Duchess didn't
mind putting her difficulties in a letter, when I wrote her you weren't behaving quite satisfactorily,
and you may take it from me that at present things stand like this: You must go back an engaged
girl or else stay away until Lady Victoria is married."

If Mother were different, I should have hoped Mrs. Ess Kay was exaggerating; but as it was,
I believed her, though I did my best to be high-eyebrowed and incredulous, till she remarked
that I could see the Duchess's letter if I liked, though it might be rather embarrassing.

I was sure it would be, and preferred to take its contents on faith; but I was so miserable
that I had to keep my eyes staring wide open to prevent the tears dropping down. I was tired,
and forlorn, and homesick--for Vic and Stan, and the dear dogs and everything except Mother--and
I felt such a horrible weakness creeping over me that I could even imagine myself by and by
doing what they meant me to do. I thought the best thing was to gain a respite, lest Mrs. Ess
Kay should drag some kind of a concession from me, which I would have to live up to, afterwards.

"I can't talk any more about it now," I said. "I believe what you say, but it only makes it
worse for me, to think that Mother should have made what amounts to a kind of bargain with
you. Maybe by to-morrow everything won't seem so dreadful."

She got up, with a relieved air. Perhaps even she hadn't been enjoying the conversation.

"Of course it won't," said she. "It won't seem dreadful at all. You've no idea how happy we're
all going to be. Now, just you sleep well, and dream sweet dreams, and you'll wake up feeling
a different girl. Maybe poor Potter hasn't been as tactful as he might be; that's because he's
too much in love to be clever. But he has a lovely surprise for you to-morrow. Something connected
with a certain finger of your left hand. I promise you that you'll like it; and now I'm going
to leave you in peace for the night." I can't tell what savage deed I mightn't have been capable
of doing if she had had the idea of kissing me; but she hadn't. She merely patted me on the
shoulder, and went out, leaving me to stare aimlessly at the door after she had softly closed it.

XIII

ABOUT RUNNING AWAY

I don't know how long it was before the thought came to me that I would take Vivace and a handbag
and run away to Sally; but anyway it was before it had occurred to me to sit down.

Sally said before she went away that I was to go to her if I felt like it, and Sally always
means what she says. Now I felt like it so much that it seemed suddenly the only possible thing
to do, so all I had to decide was the best way and the best time to do it.

As for the time, if I didn't escape before Mrs. Ess Kay and Potter formed a hollow square round
me to pour their volleys into my heart in the morning, all that was prophetic in my soul said
I would never escape, but would suffer great confusion and rout.

As for the way, it was more difficult to make up my mind, but the first thing was to see how
much money I had in my exchequer--which happened to be a gold purse Sally had given me.

I hadn't spent much, and since coming over, dear old Stan had sent me another fifteen pounds,
which he wrote was part of one night's winnings at bridge--unusual for him, if it's true, as
Vic thinks that he continually loses. Altogether, I had nearly thirty pounds in hand, which
seemed a lot, only I didn't know at all how much it would cost for Vivace and me to reach Sally
in Chicago; and I couldn't tell until I had got irrevocably away from Mrs. Ess Kay and The
Moorings.

By this time it was nearly two o'clock, and in a couple of hours it would be light. I must
sneak out of the house with a dressing bag before any of the servants were stirring, and meanwhile
I must pack up all my belongings except such things as Mrs. Ess Kay had given me--so that I
could write and have my boxes sent on by and by.

As soon as I had realised that there wasn't a minute to throw away, the worst was over, for
I didn't stop to grizzle. I finished getting out of my bridesmaid's dress in which I had danced
so gaily a little while ago, dashed a thin frock, a dressing gown and a few others things into
my fitted dressing bag (which was almost too heavy to carry, but not quite), and then stuffed
everything else, except a travelling frock, into the boxes that were stored in a huge wardrobe
built into the wall.

I made all the haste I could, but I'm not clever at packing, so I heard some clock striking
four, when I had slipped on my thin grey canvas coat and skirt, and was putting on my hat,
with cold hands that trembled so much I could hardly stick in the hat pins.

I had been excited enough the day I heard I was to come to Mrs. Ess Kay, but I was twice as
excited now when I was going to leave her. I felt rather frightened, still I couldn't help
smiling when I said to myself how little I had thought when I learned the great news about
America and Mrs. Ess Kay, in what circumstances I should part from her.

Each step Vivace and I took in the corridors and on the stairs seemed to make such an incredible
noise in the quiet house, that I felt like a runaway elephant eloping with a hippopotamus,
but either it wasn't as bad as I thought, or everyone was lying charmed in a magic sleep, for
we got out through a window in the dining room, down the verandah steps and across the lawn
without being stopped, as I half expected.

I knew the way to the railway station very well, for I had often been there since I arrived
(the last time was when I saw Sally off), but the question was, when would there be a train?
And a good deal depended on that question, for though Mrs. Ess Kay and Potter might not exactly
have the power to drag me back, I wanted to get as far away from them as I could before they
discovered that I had gone.

I was horrified to find when we arrived that--as the Americans say--there was "nothing doing,"
not a soul in sight, and there I was, very hot and hysterical, with Vivace and my dressing
bag looking like an escaped burglaress. I had been so nervous while I was packing, that I'd
been afraid of everything, even the soap in the soap dish, which had two great blinking bubbles
at one end, like a pair of goblin eyes that watched me move, but I was much worse now, and
I could have fallen on the neck of the first official person I saw moving about the station
after I had waited for perhaps a quarter of an hour. I don't know what he was, but when I appealed
to him for news of a train for New York, instead of calling the police to give Vivace and me
in charge as a dangerous pair, he scratched his head and said there was a milk train due presently,
if I was mighty anxious.

A milk train sounded innocent and suitable to a girl travelling alone, but even if it hadn't
I should have been thankful to go in it. I couldn't buy a ticket, it appeared, in the ordinary
way; but when the milk train came my man introduced me to another. Perhaps he was a milkman;
anyway he seemed to have authority, and he said as a favour Vivace and I could be taken. He
was a nice person, and he talked a great deal after the train had given several false starts
and at last had got off. I sat on my bag, as I had on the docks, in a bare, curious car, which
really belonged to the milk, and sometimes when we bumped I should have fallen on the floor
if it hadn't been for him. He told me all about himself, and wanted to be told all about me,
but I thought, nice as he was, it would be safer not. He asked leading questions which it was
hard to keep from answering, unless I hurt his feelings; but I think he somehow got the impression
that I was going to see a sick relative, though I never exactly said so.

I don't know what time I should have got to New York if I had had to travel all the way with
the milk, for milk it seems objects to speed; but after we had jogged along for a couple of
hours, we crawled into a station where a real train was ready to start. There were just five
minutes to say farewell to my friend, and buy a ticket, when all flushed and panting, I found
myself and Vivace and the bag, in a car different from any I had seen yet. It had no nice easy
chairs and plate glass mirrors and wire nettings in the windows, like the one in which I'd
travelled to Newport, but there were two rows of seats, and when the train moved a cloud of
coal smoke poured in through the door at the front end. Babies squalled, children whined, and
their faces grew black and damp with mingled dirt and heat while grown-up people scolded; but
a dear old lady got into my seat before long, and just because I helped her with a band-box,
she made me a present of a huge peach. I was thankful to have it, for by this time I was collapsing
with hunger, having been up all night without anything to eat.

The peach made me think of Mr. Brett, and the little basket he had sent me on the docks. Then
this thought suggested another. He had said he would do anything for me that was in his power,
and if he were still in New York, it was in his power to help me a good deal. He could tell
me how much it would cost to go to Chicago, and he could show me how to get there.

I really believe that at first I hadn't had a thought of seeing him, but once it had got into
my head, I welcomed it, begged it to sit down and make itself at home.

I could have clapped my hands with joy when I saw the Grand Central Station and the delightful
café au lait porters with their red caps. It looked as familiar and comforting as if I'd passed
through a hundred times instead of once, and I had the nice feeling that now something pleasant
was sure to happen, which one has when one first arrives in Paris.

Vivace brightened up, too, and he took me out, rather than I him. I was in such a hurry to
get away, for fear Potter might have come after me by a quick train, and be looking somewhere,
that I flew along with my bag and Vivace, without waiting for a porter. I followed other people
out of the station, with the intention of finding a cab and driving to the Club where Mr. Brett
was employed; but though there were dozens of hansoms drawn up by the pavement, they had the
air of being private ones. It did seem queer that so many people should have private hansoms
waiting for them at this particular hour (it was half past twelve) but the drivers with their
tall shiny hats, smart coats and bright, clever faces, the glitter of the harness, the newness
of the cab linings and appointments all forbade any other thought. I wandered wistfully along
the line, wondering if there were no public conveyances of any kind at the Grand Central, besides
the trams which were as appalling as a procession of African lions. When I came to the end
I caught the eye of a well-groomed young man in a pale gray top coat, looking down from his
high seat at the back of a dark green hansom with great round portholes knocked in the sides,
and it struck me that there was pity kindling in his glance. I snatched at the ray as if it
had been that everlasting straw which always seems to be bobbing about when an author is drowning
one of his characters.

"Do you think there is anybody who could drive me?" I enquired, meekly.

"You bet, Miss," said he. "I'm engaged myself, or I'd be only too pleased, but you just speak
to that other gentleman there,"--with an encouraging jerk of his sleek head towards the next
vehicle. "He'll take you anywhere you want to go."

"Are you sure it isn't a private hansom?" I breathed up to him in a low, confidential voice,
for the cab he indicated was even finer than his, and Stan doesn't look as smart on his coach
on a Coaching Parade day in the Park, as did the gentleman I was recommended to address.

"Sure pop," said my friend, grinning, but not in a way to hurt my feelings; so I thanked him,
and we both bowed very politely; and the new man, who had heard after all, said that none of
the hansoms were private; anybody might have them who could pay; but I needn't be afraid, he
wouldn't charge me too much.

When he asked where I wanted to go, after all I hadn't the courage to mention the Club. The
only other place I could think of was the Waldorf-Astoria, where Potter had said any stranger
who liked could walk in and sit down. I told the man to drive me there, so he did, and only
charged me fifty cents, which he hinted was a very special price. "We don't want you English
young ladies to think bad of us," he explained, and I assured him there was no danger of that,
if I could judge by myself.

They wouldn't let me go into the Turkish room--which I remembered very well--with Vivace, so
I had to give him up to be fed and taken care of, and I was obliged to part with my bag too.
Then I wrote a note to Mr. Brett, just a few lines, saying that I was alone in New York, in
a little difficulty, and remembering his kind offer, I ventured to ask if he would come to
the Turkish Room at the Waldorf-Astoria to help me with advice.

A messenger took the letter--such an aggressively brisk child, I was sure he wouldn't waste
a second on the way--and as soon as he had gone I was beset with fears lest Mr. Brett should
have left New York, or lest, if still in town, he might be surprised or shocked at my taking
him at his word.

I was past being hungry now, but my head ached and I felt dull and stupid. There was hardly
anyone in the Turkish Room, for all the world of the Waldorf-Astoria was lunching. I sat watching
the door, watching the door, until I seemed to have been in that place doing that one thing
and nothing else for years. My eyelids would keep dropping, and my thoughts slipping away as
if they flowed past me on a slow stream. I caught them back again and again, but at last I
forgot and let them go.

The next thing I knew I was raising my head with a jerk, and opening my eyes to look straight
into those of Mr. Brett. It was he, there was no doubt of that, and yet he was different. In
my dreamy state, I couldn't think how for an instant, but as I came to myself I saw it was
all a question of dress. He had, perhaps, been making money in journalism, for he was no longer
good looking in spite of his clothes. He had the most excellent grey flannels, or something
of the sort; just the right kind of collar (I know it must be right, for Stan always wears
it) and a waistcoat Potter himself might have envied. I didn't exactly think of these things
then, but I must have unconsciously taken them all in, in a flash, for I knew them afterwards.

By the time the flash had passed we were shaking hands, and he was saying in his nice voice
how awfully sorry he was to have kept me waiting. He had been at the Club, but owing to a stupid
mistake there had been some delay in his getting my letter.

I was even more pleased to see him than I had thought I was going to be. I felt as if I had
known him all my life, and he looked so strong and handsome, and dependable, that I couldn't
bear to take my eyes off his face, lest I should wake up and find him gone--because I'd been
dreaming him.

"I'll tell you all about everything, if you'll sit down," I said, but instead of doing as I
asked, he enquired with a queer, worried expression on his face whether I had had lunch.

"No, nor breakfast either," I replied quite gaily, but with a watery smile.

"Good heavens," said he, going as red as if I had accused him of snatching it from my lips.
"Then you must have both together, before you begin to tell me anything."

"We might go out and have a sandwich somewhere," I suggested.

"There's nothing the matter with the Waldorf sandwiches."

"Except that they're expensive," said I. "You must remember you and I aren't millionaires."

"I've been doing pretty well lately," said he. "I can almost call myself rich. Please have
some lunch, I can afford it, and if you refuse I'll know it's because----"

I guessed what he might be going to say, so I stopped him.

"Nonsense!" I exclaimed. "But I've run away from Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, and I don't want to
be found. If she or her brother should have come to New York, or if anybody else----"

"I've thought of that," said he, quickly, "but we've no time to waste. You're starving. If
you wouldn't mind my getting you a private dining room, and sending you in some lunch----"

"But I want you to be with me," I insisted.

He evidently hesitated, but only for a minute. I don't think he's the sort of man to hesitate
long about anything.

"Very well, that's what I'd like best, of course, if you don't mind," said he. "I'll go and
see to everything, and be back before you can count sixty, if you do it slowly."

I didn't do it at all, but thought how thankful I was that he had come to me, for I was sure
everything would go right now.

In two or three minutes he came back to take me into a charming little dining room, where there
was no danger that Mrs. Ess Kay or Potter could pounce upon us, as it was for Mr. Brett and
me alone. I shuddered to think what it must be costing, but his clothes were so exceedingly
good I hoped he hadn't exaggerated about the luck that had come to him.

Naturally I couldn't tell the part of my story which concerned Potter Parker; but I said that
Mrs. Ess Kay wanted me to do things which I didn't think it right to do, and I couldn't stay
in her house even a day longer.

"I should like to go home," I went on, "but I can't yet, and the only other thing is to join
Miss Woodburn in Chicago. You remember Miss Woodburn, don't you?"

He said he remembered her very well, had read in the newspapers that she had left Newport for
Chicago, and thought it was a wise idea of mine to join her.

"I'm glad you think that," said I, "for I want to start to-day; and I hope you'll tell me how
to go, how much money it will be, how long it takes to get there, and all about it."

He didn't answer for a minute, but sat looking very grave, staring at his brown hand on the
white tablecloth, as if he'd never seen it before. Then he said:

"Curiously enough, I am going West this afternoon too. Would you object to my being in the
same train? I wouldn't suggest such a thing, only you see as you're a stranger in the country,
I might be able to help you a little."

"How splendid!" I exclaimed. "It seems almost too good to be true. You can't fancy what a relief
it is to my mind."

He looked pleased at that, and said I was very kind, though I should have thought it was the
other way round.

"I'll get your ticket then," he went on. "If you'll give me twenty-five dollars--five pounds,
you know--I'll hand you back the change; but I'm afraid it won't be much."

"Change?" I echoed. "Why, I supposed it would be ever so much more than five pounds to get
to Chicago, which is almost in Central America, isn't it?"

"The people who live there think it's central," said Mr. Brett. "But they make the railroad
men keep prices down, so that dissatisfied New Yorkers can afford to go and live there. It
isn't a bad journey, you'll find. I think it will interest you. You sleep and eat in the train,
you know."

"What fun!" I exclaimed. "I've never slept in a train, even on the Continent."

"If you had, it would be different from this one," said he. "Can you be ready in twenty-five
minutes? The train which we call the Twentieth Century, starts at 2.45."

"I'm ready now," said I. "The sooner we're on the way the better. But oh, about Vivace. Will
they allow him to sleep and eat too?"

"I expect I can arrange that," Mr. Brett answered, in such a confident way that I felt sure
he could do it, or anything else he set out to do. It really was lucky for me that he happened
to be travelling West that same day, and such an extraordinary coincidence, too.

"Are you going on journalistic business?" I asked.

"No, it's business I'm undertaking for a friend," he explained. "But I hope to get something
good for myself out of it in the end."

"Oh, I do hope you will," I replied. "I'm sure you deserve to."

"I'm sure I don't," said he, laughing. "But I shall try hard for it, all the same. You know,
you told me to be ambitious."

"I know I did," I answered.

A moment later he said that he must hurry off and attend to the tickets, and I had only time
to glance through some papers the waiter brought me, with columns full of Mohunsleigh's marriage,
when he was back again with a cab.

While I read an account of the wedding, and gushing paragraphs about me, I wondered if there
mightn't be things not so flattering in the same papers to-morrow.

"If it got out that I had run away, would there be a scandal?" I asked Mr. Brett in the cab.
But he said that I needn't be afraid; Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox was much too clever a woman to let
anything she wouldn't like get into the papers. She would send a paragraph to the effect that
Lady Betty Bulkeley had been suddenly called home or had gone to visit other friends, or something
of that sort. "But she will almost certainly cable to your people," he went on.

"Yes, but she won't know where I've gone till afterwards, and anyhow, they can't object to
my being with Miss Woodburn," I answered him.

"You don't think they'll send for you to come home at once?"

I shook my head. "They won't do that. They don't want--that is, they think it wiser for me
to stop on this side longer, now I'm here."

"I'm very glad of that," said Mr. Brett and he looked at me as if he really were glad, in spite
of all the trouble I'd made him.

XIV

ABOUT THE TWENTIETH CENTURY LIMITED AND CHICAGO

The train for Chicago is perfectly wonderful, not like an ordinary, human kind of train at
all. I'm in it now, and have been writing everything about the wedding and what happened afterwards,
because I have a whole room of my own, and I'm much too excited to sleep.

There's a bed in the room--not a hard shelf, but quite a wide, springy bed, with electric light
close by the pillow; there are walls made of mirrors; there's a sofa, a washhand-stand, and
a palm-leaf fan; there's netting in the window so that you can have it open without getting
black; and there would be plenty of places to put my things if I'd brought three times as many.
But better than anything else, there's a soft, sweet, brown maid who goes with the room and
isn't an extra. She's the same brown as the porters, only paler than most, and the train wasn't
ten minutes outside New York when she appeared, to ask what she could do for me. There was
nothing at the time, but she didn't go away. She looked about for a minute, then pouncing on
the palm leaf she began to fan me, slowly and gracefully, not holding on by anything, though
the train was hurling itself through the State of New York apparently with the speed in which
light travels round the world. (I never could remember how many times it can do the whole distance
in a minute, but whatever it is, it has the air of being a boast.)

I thanked her a good deal, and said I wouldn't trouble her any more, though it was very nice;
but she kept straight on, like a mechanical doll, until I felt that in common humanity I ought
to fan her. If anyone in England, especially anyone in her position (only there aren't such
positions) had asked half as many questions as she did, people would be extremely surprised
and offended; but I would defy even the crossest person to be offended with this soft brown
thing. It would have been too ungrateful not to answer her nicely when she was keeping my flies
at bay with extreme inconvenience to herself, so I admitted that I was English, told what county
I came from, how long I'd been in the States, where I'd been staying, how I liked America,
where I was going now, and ended up by satisfying her as to my age and whether I had a mother.
I also stated that I was neither married nor engaged. The dear creature rewarded me for all
this by telling me a great deal about herself and her relatives, and a church picnic she attended
last Sunday, where there were more young gentlemen than ladies--"which always makes parties
so nice for us girls."

"I must say that's a mighty pretty hat you've got," said she at last. "I reckon it came from
England. And my, but that is a sweet waist. I'd give my life for that waist."

If I had had a twin sister of the sweet waist with me, I couldn't have resisted pressing it
upon her, and I don't believe she would have refused.

As soon as Mr. Brett got me nicely settled in my room, he said we wouldn't meet again during
the journey. I was sorry and wanted to know why, so he explained that his ticket was different
from mine. I hope that is the only reason, really, and that it isn't because he thinks he ought
not to be travelling with me. I suppose he is going second class.

I did miss him at dinner, which I had in a grand restaurant car, about half a mile away from
me in the train. It was fun being there, seeing all the people, and being served by fascinating
black waiters, but it would have been more fun with him. I longed to exclaim to Mr. Brett about
the glorious sunset which marched with us along the Hudson River for an enchanted hour, and
I couldn't half enjoy it for wondering every minute, as it changed from one beauty to another,
whether he were watching too.

We have tenderly radiant sunsets at home, which I love; but they're not startlingly magnificent
as in America, where all things--even cloud effects--are managed on such a sensational scale.
I saw some skies to remember, in Newport, though never one like this; but perhaps the magical
charm of it was partly dependent on the gleaming river.

When the daylight blue had faded, there was a kind of dusky lull. Then, as if flames leaped
up out of the clear water, river and mountains and sky ran gold, reddening slowly till the
colour burned deep and vivid as the heart of a rose. From crimson was born violet, soft blue-violet
that hung like a robe over the mountains, while the living azure of the river was slashed with
silver; and as one gazed and gazed, afraid to turn away, there broke a sudden flood of amethyst
light out of the floating haze. It was dazzling for a moment, but before one realised the change
the brilliance had been drunk up by purple shadows. The outline of trees and foot-hills melted
into the pansy gloom, and at last, with one dying quiver of light all warmth of colour was
blotted out. Water and sky paled to a pensive grey-blue, and as the French say, "it made night."

There was a tremendous menu for dinner, such as we used to have for breakfast on shipboard,
and droves of things whose names I'd never heard before. Just for curiosity, I ordered several
of the strangest, and some of them were a great success. For instance, there was "succotash,"
which sounds as if it might be a guttural insult flung at the mouth of one Red Indian Brave
by another; but when it was (figuratively speaking) flung at mine by a black waiter, it turned
out to be something more in the nature of a compliment. It looked like beryls mixed with pearls,
though it was really only green beans stirred up with American corn; and the two got on so
well together you felt they had been born for each other.

It's now about two o'clock in the morning, and it seems as if we must have raced across half
America, but we have a long, long way to go still, so says the soft brown thing, who looked
in on me about an hour ago to ask in a casual way whether, if she should go to Europe to live,
she might not be taken for an Italian?

When I was a little girl, and my nurse used to make up tales to put me to sleep at night, I
would sometimes get impatient and tell her to "go down into the story and find out what happened
next." Just now, I feel as if that is what I should like to do in my future.

XV

ABOUT SEEING CHICAGO

The first face I saw on the platform when we arrived in Chicago was Mr. Brett's. He was waiting
to help me, and looked as fresh as if he hadn't spent eighteen hours in the train. He said
I looked fresh, too; but if I did it must have been excitement, as I'd written half the night
and dreamed desperately the other half, about Potter Parker--dressed like one of those Red
Indians they have for cigar signs in New York--pursuing me with a jewelled tomahawk.

Mr. Brett had insisted on my telegraphing to Sally before we left New York, to say I was coming,
and asking her to meet the train, therefore, we were surprised not to find her at the station.
I was rather anxious, and so I could see was Mr. Brett. He thought he had better not drive
in a cab with me to the friend's house where she was staying, but he told me the name of a
hotel where he would go at once, and made me promise that I would send him a line by the cabman
to say whether everything was well with me.

"Miss Woodburn probably has a headache, or perhaps is out of town for the day," said he. "It
can't be anything else; still, I shall be a little uneasy till I hear. And you know I hold
myself absolutely at your service."

"What about your friend whose business you've come to attend to?" I asked. "I mustn't be so
selfish as to interfere with that, whatever happens."

"Oh, I can attend to both interests," he assured me, "without neglecting either. I shan't need
to let one interfere with the other. And remember, I won't stir out of my hotel till I've had
your note."

Bereft of him, Chicago overawed me, and took my breath away. It is a good thing I saw New York
first, for if I'd come straight from England with only memories of peaceful London to support
me through the ordeal, I don't know but it might have affected my brain.

For one thing, there was a high wind which seemed to have a fancy for making off with your
hat. It was an exciting sort of wind, too, which played with your nerves; but whether it was
that, or whether something extraordinary was happening just out of sight round the corner of
nearly every street we passed, and all the people we saw were tearing like mad to the spot,
I don't know, but anyhow they seemed a good deal agitated, and there were more varieties of
startling street noises even than in New York. The cable cars were like live, untamed things
that scorned to wait the convenience of wretched little human beings. Such women and girls
as had performed the feat of clambering on board didn't dream for a moment that the creatures
might be induced to stop and let them get down. They simply hurled themselves off as they could,
and my heart was in my mouth for them, and for myself, many times while my cab mingled with
the surging and apparently uncontrolled traffic.

It was a long drive, though, and as I had time to calm down I saw that numbers of the huge
buildings are nobly designed, and very magnificent in decoration, making a splendid effect
in spite of their vast size rather than because of it. And such shops, too! They're like the
fairy palaces my nurse used to tell me about, as big as whole cities, where you could get anything
you wanted just by wishing.

On the way, I made up my mind to ask Sally a number of questions; why they have the curbstones
so high in Chicago; why the women, though dressed much the same as in New York, look quite
different and have a style of their own, even in their walk; why almost all the men are young;
and why, though there is such a network of trams, nearly everybody seems to need a motor car?

I think American girls must be braver than English ones, for where with us, if a girl drives
a motor she is so remarkable that her picture is at once put in a newspaper, in the States
a girl in a car, in the midst of howling traffic, doesn't even have the air of wanting to scream
or faint, but just sits straight up and smiles with her figure looking inexpressibly French;
and there are two or three of her in every important street.

There was a wonderful swinging bridge which we had to wait for until it chose to come to us,
like the mountain to Mahomet, and presently we trotted into a beautiful Avenue near a startlingly
unexpected blue sea which I thought must be a mirage, till the cabman said it was Lake Michigan.
But who would have thought of a lake being like that? The only ones I ever saw were pretty
little things in parks where you fed swans.

At last we stopped before a large, handsome house, with a lawn round it and no fence. The house
was stone in front, but had brick sides which gave it a queer effect, yet somehow didn't spoil
it; and wherever there wasn't a porch, it had broken out in bow windows.

I told the cabman to wait, and then ran up the four or five steps to ring the front door bell.
In a minute a maid came who would have been very smart-looking if she had only worn a proper cap.

"Is Miss Woodburn stopping here?" I asked.

"No, she isn't," returned the young woman with a glint of the eye which seemed to say, she
would perish sooner than call anyone "Miss," and I shouldn't wonder if she would have felled
me to the earth rather than give me a "ladyship" had it been required of her.

"Are you sure?" I persisted, my heart preparing for a plunge bootward.

"I guess so," said the girl with a superior but not ill-natured smile. "She was staying with
us, but she went day before yesterday. I don't think she'll be back, because she's gone to
take care of a friend who's real sick, way back in Ohio somewhere."

"Way back in Ohio somewhere!" The words were like a knell for all my hopes. I didn't know what
was to become of me now.

"I am sorry," I said. "Do you know if a telegram came for Miss Woodburn yesterday?"

"Yesindeed," replied the young woman, all in one word, but her face brightened. Suddenly she
was looking at me like a long-lost friend. "I guess you're expected. Mrs. Hale, that's the
lady of the house here, sent the telegram on, and Miss Woodburn telegraphed back about you.
Mrs. Hale went to meet your train, but maybe she didn't recognise you or else she got caught
at the bridge. Anyhow she hasn't come back yet. I guess you'd better come in. Your room is
all ready for you."

"My room?" I stammered.

"Why--yes, of course. Mrs. Hale expects you to stay with us till you're good and ready to go
somewhere else. You'll like her. She's a nice lady, if I do say it myself."

"She's too kind," I exclaimed. "I never heard of such kindness to a stranger."

"Oh, maybe you haven't been in America long," said the kind lady's servant. "I guess it would
be just the same in most any house over here. You come right in, and I'll take you up to your
room."

I hadn't thought at first I could like that girl so much, but my heart warmed to her and her
mistress, and everything that was hers. Only I couldn't stay. I would have to move on somewhere,
like the poor tramps in the Park at home.

"I can't do that, though I'm very grateful indeed to Mrs. Hale," I said. "I--I have other plans.
I'll just scribble a little note to tell her so, and thank her, then I must go."

"She'll just never forgive me if I let you," protested the young woman.

I began to be a little afraid that I might be detained by well-meant force; but when I had
written a letter to Mrs. Hale, (squeezing Vivace under one arm and sitting at a desk in a bright,
charming drawing-room where three Persian cats, six Japanese spaniels and a number of birds
played about the floor) I contrived to persuade the hospitable creature that my immediate departure
was practically a matter of life or death. Then I threaded my way out of the drawing-room without
squashing any of the little tropical, flowerlike things that hopped about and--according to
the maid--were worth more than their weight in gold.

I knew I should have loved Mrs. Hale, for her own sake and Sally's and the happy family's in
the drawing-room, but I felt I must vanish before she came home, or I should be saddled upon
her, and she would feel bound to keep me indefinitely, till Sally returned or I was sent for
like a missing parcel by my own people.

So instead of writing my news to Mr. Brett, I went back with it to him, like a bad penny. He
must have been surprised when he heard that a lady was waiting in the drawing-room of his hotel,
and hurried in to see me sitting there. I should have felt ready to die if he had looked bored,
but he didn't a bit.

I told him all my adventures, and about the dogs and cats and birds, and then I asked what
on earth I should do now. "I suppose I shall have to go back to New York," I said gloomily,
"and cable to my brother. I could stop at some pension and wait till I heard--a quiet pension,
Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox wouldn't be likely to know about."

"You alone in a New York boarding house!" exclaimed Mr. Brett. "Never."

"Then could you find me a Chicago one?"

"There'd be nothing to choose between. No, Lady Betty, but I can suggest something better.
Only--I don't know how you'll take it. Wouldn't you rather be near Miss Woodburn than anything
else, until your future plans are settled?"

"Of course," said I, "but that's impossible now."

"I'm not so sure. I think--in fact I know, where she is. You say Mrs. Hale's maid told you
she'd gone to Ohio, to take care of a sick friend. I can tell you where that friend lives,
and her name, because I have relatives in the neighbourhood. I don't often go there, but I've
heard from them of Miss Woodburn's visits. My cousins have a farm; and I was wondering whether
you could content yourself boarding with them for awhile, so near Miss Woodburn you could see
her every day?"

"Oh, I should love it," I cried. "But would they have me?"

"They would be happy to have you, I know. The only question is, would you be happy? They're
simple folk, with simple ways, such as you would expect of my people, Lady Betty; but they've
hearts of gold."

"Like yours," I thought; but I didn't say it. I said instead that I was fond of simple ways.
And I asked where the place was, and if it was far off?

"It will take us about twelve hours to get there," he answered.

"Us?" I echoed. "Why, you can't----"

"I can if you'll let me," said, he, growing red. "I've finished my business in Chicago, already,
and----"

"What, while I was away?"

"It was a short affair, though important."

"But I thought you weren't going to leave the hotel till I wrote?"

"I didn't need to. My friend came to me, and we fixed up everything between us in a few minutes.
Now, I'm free again; and my idea in any case was to drop in on my Ohio cousins. You see, twelve
hours' travelling is nothing to us Americans, and they wouldn't like it if I didn't just say
'how do you do,' when I'm so near."

"Oh, well, if that's really true, and you aren't doing it only to help me," said I, with a
sigh of relief. "I was afraid you were. I shouldn't mind the journey a bit if you were with
me; but I do hope we'll have the same kind of ticket this time. Do get mine like yours, won't you?"

His eyes had a beautiful expression in them as he thanked me, and said he would do the best
he could; only I couldn't exactly make it out. I hoped it wasn't pity, but I'm afraid it may
have been, as I must have seemed rather forlorn, depending so entirely upon him.

"The best train to take would be this evening," he went on. "That would give my cousins, Mr.
and Mrs. Trowbridge, plenty of time to get ready for you too, for I'll wire them that you're
coming. But how could you pass the day? Would you--let me show you the sights of Chicago?"

"Would I? It would be the best of fun. Oh, I am glad I came, after all."

"Then that's settled. I'll send off that telegram and one or two others, and come back with
an automobile. Don't look like that, please, Lady Betty. It isn't going to cost me all I've
got to hire one. They're cheap here; besides I know a man who will give me one for the day,
for next to nothing. And I'll bring you one of those silk things with talc windows to wear
over your head and face, so no one will see that Lady Betty Bulkeley is 'doing' Chicago to-day."

"I don't know a soul here," said I. "And anyway I wouldn't be ashamed. I shall be doing no wrong."

"Of course not, or I hope I wouldn't have proposed it," said Mr. Brett.

Then he went away, and in about half an hour he was back with the promised motor hood and a
dust coat, both of which he said were thrown in with the car for anyone who hired it, if desired.

I was as pleased as Punch. As Caro Pitchley said when she was engaged, I felt I was "going
to have the time of my life." And it was fun. I shall never forget that day of mine in Chicago
with Mr. Brett, if I live to be a hundred.

The only sight I did not want to see was the poor pigs walking into a trough wagging their
tails and coming out of another one eventually as a string of sausages or something. But we
didn't miss any of the other sights, and there were enough to last us from morning till evening
without stopping once. We bowled along wide boulevards, and saw Lincoln Park, and the Midway
and Jackson Park. We had things to eat on the lake shore near a pier, and afterwards we had
ice cream in the old German Building of the World's Fair. There were some beautiful lagoons,
and Mr. Brett rowed me about in a boat. I should have liked to stop there for hours, but there
were too many other things to do. We had to see Sans Souci, a sort of Chicago Coney Island,
which was a tremendous lark, with Helter Skelters, and Air Ships, and a Laughing Gallery and
a trip to Hades. I wouldn't miss anything, and Mr. Brett must have found me a handful, I'm
afraid, though I do think he enjoyed it almost as much as I did. Usually he is rather grave,
but before half the day was gone he was like a boy. We talked together as if we had been friends
for years and told each other anecdotes of our past lives. He didn't care about talking of
himself, but I made him by asking questions, and refusing to tell things about myself unless
he would. I found it a great deal more interesting to listen to such stories than to hear about
the history of Chicago, and he has had the most extraordinarily interesting life. His mother
died when he was a little boy, and he had a horrid stepmother who was so cruel that he ran
away from home and had all sorts of adventures at the age when the boys I know at home would
be just beginning to look forward to Eton. I had to draw the details from him, and I felt so
sorry for all the poor fellow had gone through that I longed with my whole heart to do something
to make up to him for his past hardships. But I haven't thought of anything yet that a girl
could do, which would be really useful.

The best fun of all was the Chinese restaurant where we had dinner. It's in a queer street
where there are some famous pawn shops, it seems, and I wanted to go into them, but Mr. Brett
wouldn't take me. To get to the restaurant you go up a long flight of marble stairs, with two
grinning Chinese devil-heads, like watch dogs, on the wall at the top.

Nothing could be more modern and Western than the Chicago surging and roaring outside. But
as you pass the guardian devils and cross the threshold of that restaurant you turn your back
on the present and find yourself in the Far East. I liked it better than Mrs. Ess Kay's gorgeous
Aladdin's Cave, for there's nothing imitation or stagey about this place. There's real lacquer,
and real silver and gold on the strange partitions; real Chinese mural paintings; real Chinese
lamps swinging from the ceilings; real ebony stools to sit on at the inlaid octagon tables,
and real ebony chopsticks to eat with if you choose, instead of commonplace knives and forks.

Of course we did choose; I would be ashamed to bow to myself in the looking glass if we hadn't;
and we pretended that we were making an actual tour in China as we ate strange yet delicious
food such as my wildest imagination could not have conjured. I was a great princess, and Mr.
Brett was my Chief Grand Marshal. He wanted to be my courier, but I wouldn't have him for anything
so ignominious. I reminded him that I had counselled ambition, and I gave him for a decoration
a little steel and paste button which just then came off my grey bolero where it didn't show
much. He immediately pinned it under the lapel of his coat, and looked suddenly quite solemn
as he said he would keep it always.

We had Bird's Nest Bud-ball Yet-bean War; and Shark's Fin, Loung-fong Chea; and Duck, Gold-silver
Tone Arp; eggs with Shrimp Yook; cake called Rose Sue; and Ting Moy, which was a Canton preserve;
and various other things that I picked out from the names Mr. Brett read me from the funny
yellow menu card. Afterwards we had Head-loo-hom tea in beautiful little cups without handles,
much prettier than those which Mother keeps in a cabinet in the room that smells of camphor
from Mohunsleigh's polar bear. I was horrified when the bill came, to see that it was about
half a yard long, and that Mr. Brett had to pay with a number of expensive-looking greenback
things, but he laughed when he saw my frightened face, and said the dinner didn't really cost
all that, he only wanted change. I begged him to let me go halves with everything, as I'd invited
myself, in a way, but he told me I didn't understand American customs yet, and asked if I had
the heart to spoil the happiest day of his life?

I couldn't resist telling him it was the happiest of mine, too--that I had never amused myself
half as well.

"Not even in Newport?" said he.

"Not even in Newport," I repeated. "It was delightful there, and everybody was kind and charming
to me, but--you see I had no real friends, like you, to go about with; and that makes the greatest
difference, doesn't it?"

His eyes lit up again at that, and I could see the blood mounting under his brown skin.

"All the difference in the world," he answered in a low voice. Then he looked as if he were
going to say something else, but shut his lips tight together and didn't. One wouldn't dare
speak out the truth like this, to a rich man one might be supposed to be trying to marry; I
remember enough of what Mother and Vic have told me about proper behaviour in a débutante,
to know that. But I've never wanted to talk in such a way to any man except Mr. Brett, which
is lucky, as he always understands me; and that's one reason why it's pleasanter to be with
him than any other person I've ever met yet.

XVI

ABOUT THE VALLEY FARM

After all, Mr. Brett's ticket was different from mine again, but I suppose he couldn't arrange
to have the same kind and see something of me on the journey, because, as I'd asked him, he
would have done it if possible. We went back part of the way we had come the night before,
in the same grand kind of train, as far as Cleveland, which we reached in the morning, quite
early. We got out there, for no fine trains like that stop at the village near which Mr. Brett's
cousins live, and he said the best thing we could do would be to drive to the farm in a motor
car. It was about forty miles away, but with a good car which he could easily get, we wouldn't
be more than two hours, allowing for bad roads. If we didn't take a motor, we should have to
wait half the morning for a slow train, and then have a drive at the end, of six or seven miles
in some kind of a country conveyance.

When I hesitated, thinking of expense, Mr. Brett explained that among his many other occupations,
he had once acted as a chauffeur, therefore, knowing the tricks of the trade and being a sort
of professional himself, he could always hire a motor at a nominal price. This settled my doubts.
We drove in a cab to a hotel, where he left me, with Vivace, while he went to search for a
car. Presently he came back with a smart grey thing which matched my clothes; and not only
was there a grey chauffeur to go with it, but a grey holland coat for me, and a grey silk hood
with a lace curtain. I do think they do things well in America.

Mr. Brett wanted to know if I would like a short run about Cleveland before starting, so I
said yes, as I love seeing new things; and it was beautiful. I don't remember learning Cleveland
on the map of the States when I did geography, so I hadn't realised that it could be important.
But Bournemouth and Folkeston and Harrogate rolled into one wouldn't fill it, and Cleveland
is a great deal grander than any of them. Even Bellevue Avenue in Newport is hardly handsomer
than Euclid; but what an odd name to give a street! But to me the names of streets in America
don't sound as interesting and individual as ours do.

I looked forward to seeing the country between Cleveland and Aristo (which is the name of the
town nearest to the Valley Farm) because except for the drives I had had near Newport, I knew
nothing at all of the real country in America. I had an idea that we should pass some fine
country houses and see a number of pretty little nestling villages.

The name of Aristo was rather impressive and classical sounding, I thought, and I had visions
of meeting on the way pretty girls driving or riding, and good-looking, well-groomed men such
as I had met always in the country round Newport. But as we went on and on, I was disappointed.
The scenery itself was lovely, rich, and peaceful, with groves of maple trees which would have
been quite new to me if I hadn't seen a few in the East; but the villages were blots rather
than beauty spots, and we saw only peasants and farm people.

Mr. Brett was driving the car with me beside him, while the chauffeur sat behind, and I made
some such remark to him before I stopped to remember that his relatives were farm people. I
could have bitten my tongue then, but he didn't seem to be offended.

"Outside the towns in the West there are few of what you would call gentlefolk," said he, with
just the faintest emphasis of good-natured scorn for English prejudice; "nor are there any
'country houses' as you understand the name in England. Here people live in the country to
till the land and to live by tilling it; yet they don't call themselves 'peasants,' either.
It isn't that they're snobbish and want to seem to be what they are not, don't think that for
a moment. But they--well, I won't try to describe them. Many people from the Old World would
never understand what they really are, or their point of view; but you will, Lady Betty. You
are quick, and sympathetic, and intelligent; and when I ask you to define for me the difference
between the farmers of Ohio, as typified by my cousins and their neighbours in Summer County,
I shall be surprised if you don't exactly hit the nail on the head. They'll surprise you a
little at first, I warn you, and for about ten minutes maybe you won't know what to make of
them. But I count on you to see the point in spite of all your traditions."

"What have my traditions got to do with it?" I asked.

"Wait and see."

I laughed. "Well, I only wish I knew what my traditions are," said I. "I suppose I ought to
know, but I don't think I do."

"You may feel them prickling up and down your spine for a bit, while you're getting used to
a new order of things at the Valley Farm," answered Mr. Brett. "And yet I don't know. I shall
be enormously interested in watching the effect upon you, before I--have to say good-bye."

I forgot everything else he had been saying when I heard that last sentence.

"Will you have to say good-bye soon?" I asked in a crestfallen voice.

He didn't speak for a minute, perhaps on account of a series of bumps in the road which, though
so pretty, was much worse for driving than any I have seen at home. I don't believe Englishmen
would stand it. They would keep writing to The Times and signing their letters "Motorist,"
or "Sportsman," or "Mother of Ten Cyclists," till somebody was forced to do something.

At last he said, "To tell you the truth, Lady Betty, I should like to stop and pay my cousins
a little visit, but--I don't know if I have a right to."

"Oh, why not?" I asked. "Wouldn't they be delighted to keep you?"

"Perhaps. I hope so. But what about you?"

"If it depended one bit on me, you'd make a long visit."

"Wouldn't you really mind seeing me hanging around--sometimes? Just at meals, you know--or
to take you a drive once in awhile?"

I looked at him merrily through my talc window, for I felt happy and light-hearted, and the
world seemed such a very nice place to live in at that moment.

"Do you truly need to have me answer that question?" I asked. "If you do, we can't be real
friends as I thought, after all."

"You say that because you are kind--too kind to have reflected enough, perhaps. An accident--the
happiest accident in the world for me--has given me a chance to see something of you, Lady
Betty; but do you understand that only by an accident could a rough fellow like me have any
place at all in your life, no matter how small or temporary? I don't want to take advantage
of that sweet kindness of yours, which is partly all your own, and partly the essence of your
youth and innocence."

"Now you are making me very cross," said I. "I won't hear you talk so. You may laugh at me,
because we've known each other such a short time, but really and truly you are the best friend
I've ever had. I wouldn't lose you for anyone or anything in the world, and I don't mean to,
unless you get tired of me--so, there!"

"Tired of you! Good heavens, I tired of you!"

"Very well, then," said I flippantly, "so far as I'm concerned you needn't say 'good-bye' to
the Valley Farm till you feel the first symptoms coming on."

"Lady Betty," remarked Mr. Brett, "I wonder if there's another girl like you in the world?"

"According to my Mother, there isn't another so vexing," I replied.

We both laughed; and then he suddenly said, "Here is Aristo."

I stared about wildly. "Where, where?" I asked.

He laughed a great deal more. "Why, you're looking right at the postoffice and the grocery
and drygoods store."

Sure enough, there was a brown wooden building at the top of a dusty hill we were just climbing;
but there was nothing else anywhere, except a clear brown creek, and some sweet-smelling meadows
with a white horse gazing in a bored way over rather a queer fence, and some cows asleep under
a clump of maple trees on our side of a young birch grove.

"Where's the rest of it?" I went on. "Where are the other shops, and the houses, and the people?"

"Oh, the other shops and the houses aren't built yet, but they may be any time; and then the
people will come. But the fact that they haven't come yet doesn't prevent this from being Aristo.
The slow trains from Cleveland stop just behind that hill, several times a day, which is very
convenient for the farmers in the neighbourhood, otherwise they would have to go all the way
to Arcona, twelve miles away. But you mustn't think this is the only place you will have to
do your shopping when you're at the Valley Farm. Wait till you see Hermann's Corners. There's
a great Emporium there, and you'll ruffle the feelings of half the ladies of Summer County
if you don't fall in love with it, and its proprietor, Whit Walker. Promise you'll let me be
the first one to introduce you to both?"

I promised, and wanted to be prepared for what I must expect to find; but Mr. Brett would tell
me nothing. He said that neither the great Whit Walker nor Hermann's Corners Emporium could
possibly be described for the comprehension of a foreigner.

We were in a sweet and gracious country now. It looked as if Mother Nature would never allow
any of her children who obeyed her, to be poor or unhappy here. As we whizzed along the up
and down road between billowing meadows of grain, we could see here and there a farm house
showing between trees, or peering over the brow of a rounded hill; but there was none where
I longed to stop until we came in sight of a dear, old, red-brick house--really old, not what
some Americans call old. It was set back several hundred yards from the road, and an avenue
of magnificent maples--each one a great green temple--led up to the comfortable, rose-draped
porch which sheltered the door. There was an old-fashioned garden on one side, with a running
flame of hollyhocks hemming it in; the background was a dark green oak and maple grove; and
in a clover meadow beyond the garden was a colony of beehives. It looked an ideal, storybook
place, and I wished it might be the Valley Farm, but thought such a thing too good to be true.
When one is going to stop at a house one has never seen, as Vic says, it usually turns out
to be the one of all others you like least.

So I was delighted when we turned in at the open gate with its guardian apple tree on either
side. We sailed up the avenue under the maples, but instead of making for the front entrance,
turned off into a farm road which led round the side of the house, and the tooting of our horn
brought three women smiling and waving to a door under a long, narrow verandah before we stopped.

One was a tall, thin, middle-aged woman, with grey-brown hair pulled away from her forehead
and done in a knob at the back of her head. Her skin was sunburned; she wore a black and white
print frock, without so much as a ruffle or tuck, and her sleeves were rolled up over her sun-browned
arms above the elbow; she had no real pretensions to being pretty, and yet, somehow, she was
one of the nicest-looking women I ever saw. She had the sort of expression in her eyes, and
in her smile, you would like your mother to have, if you could have had your mother made to
order exactly according to your own ideas.

On her right stood a very pretty girl with a dazzling white complexion, all the whiter for
a gold-powder of freckles; black eyes rather deep set, dimples, and a quantity of curly, bright-red
hair wound in a crown of braids round her head. She was in print, too, but it was blue, and
very becoming.

On the tall woman's left was another girl, also pretty, though in a florid way, with great
blue eyes, a full mouth, and a mouse-coloured fringe down to her eyebrows. She was more elaborately
dressed than the others, with a lot of coarse lace on her blouse, and a pink skirt. But she
hadn't the look of simple refinement which the first two had in spite of their plain clothes
and rolled-up sleeves. All three waved something excitedly. One had a huge kitchen spoon, another
a book, and the third a towel.

"Howdy, Cousin Jim!" cried the nice woman with the expression, as Mr. Brett stopped the car
in front of the door. "We're mighty glad to see you again. This is the young Lady Bulkeley,
isn't it? We're mighty glad to see her, too, and we're going to try to make her as happy as
we can."

"I knew you would, Cousin Fanny, or I wouldn't have brought her to you," said Mr. Brett, jumping
out and helping me down. "But she's Lady Betty."

"I thought that would be a little too familiar to begin with," said the dear woman, with a
perfectly angelic smile, and a pleasant American accent with rather more roll of the "r" than
I'd heard in the East. "But you shall be called just what you like best, my dear."

"Shall I? Then I should like you to call me Betty," said I, shaking hands hard with Mr. Brett's
Cousin Fanny, and my heart warming to her for her own sake as well as his. There was a good
smell about her of linen dried on the grass and of freshly-baked cake. I can never smell those
smells, I know, without remembering her.

She smiled, and pressed my hand. "Why, you are just like an American girl, my dear," she exclaimed.
"Not a bit stiff and English like we supposed you would be. We all thought we were going to
be afraid of you, but I guess we won't, will we, Patty and Ide?"

I saw that I was expected to take this as an introduction. I smiled and bowed to the two girls,
and when they put out their hands I put mine out too. They didn't lift my hand up high to shake,
as people do at home a little, and as they do in New York and Newport a great deal more, but
just thumped it up and down cordially in about the longitude of their waists.

"I'm very happy to know you," said Patty, the pretty, red-haired one.

"How do you do?" enquired Ide, the one with the fringe.

I fancied that they must both be Mrs. Trowbridge's daughters, but she continued the ceremony
of presentation by saying:

"Patty is Miss Pinkerton; and Ide is Miss Jay. They generally stay with Mr. Trowbridge and
me pretty nearly all the year round. Patty takes music lessons in Arcona twice a week, and
keeps up her other studies, and Ide helps me look after the house and the milk. I should have
hard work to get along without either one of them, it seems to me; and I expect I shall be
feeling just the same way about you before you leave us. Here comes Mr. Trowbridge, now. See,
Cousin Jim, here comes your Cousin Hezekiah. He's been hiving a swarm of bees; that's why he's
got that mosquito net veil around his hat. Something like your automobile one, Lady Betty."

A man of fifty or more, in white duck trousers and a bluish shirt with a turned-down collar
a little open at the neck, was coming towards the house from the direction of the beehive colony.
He had on no coat; in fact, I think a grey linen thing hanging over a wooden rocking-chair
on the verandah must have been his. His battered straw hat, with the "mosquito-net veil" which
Mrs. Trowbridge had mentioned, was on the back of his head, and when he saw us, he snatched
it off and waved it as his wife had waved her spoon and Ide her towel. From a distance he looked
just an ordinary farmer, but when he came near enough for me to make out his features I saw
that he was very far from ordinary. He had a splendid head, the head of a statesman, and his
face was clear and intellectual, with keen, kind eyes. It had a remarkable resemblance to lots
of pictures I had seen since coming to the States, of the Father of his Country, General Washington.

He shook hands, too, with me and Mr. Brett, but first he wiped some honey from his fingers,
on the side of his trousers. As he did it, it was a dignified and laudable act. There was no
reason why he should have been glad to see me, a perfect stranger, but he seemed to be so honestly
pleased that it warmed my heart, and made me feel already at home in the sweet, old, red-brick
farmhouse, which reminded me, in its soft colours, of a great bunch of wall flowers.

"I reckon we're going to be real good friends," said he. "If we'd known just how you was coming,
Jim, I'd have liked to meet you and her little ladyship--the first ladyship we've had in these
parts. You didn't give us any idea, though, and now I see why. But look here, Mother, you might
have had the front door open. I'm afraid the young lady from England will think we're mighty
informal."

"I shouldn't wonder if that's just about what she'll like to think, Father," said Mrs. Trowbridge,
with her smile that was so motherly and friendly at the same time. "Miss Woodburn would have
been over to see you if she could; she was just ready to jump for joy when Patty ran across
to tell her you were coming; but Mis' Randal is pretty sick, and Sally felt she couldn't leave
her yet awhile. So she sent you her love, and she'll be along the minute she can git away."

Just for an instant it struck me as odd to hear this simple farm woman in her straight print
calmly calling my charming, dainty friend "Sally," as if there could be no shadow of doubt
in anyone's mind of their perfect social equality. But in another second I could have boxed
my own ears for my denseness and snobbish stupidity. Already--even in these few minutes--I
was beginning faintly to understand some of the "points" at which Mr. Brett had hinted.

"Maybe you'd like to go and have a look at your room," went on Mrs. Trowbridge. "Patty and
Ide have picked you some flowers, and I hope you'll find everything right----"

"Oh, Mis' Trowbridge, do let me take her," exclaimed Patty.

"Me too!" cried Ide.

"They're just like children. I guess we'll have to humour them this once," laughed Mr. Brett's
Cousin Fanny.

When I smiled at Patty, she cuddled her arm round me, and then Ide promptly did the same. Thus
interlaced, the procession moved into the house.

The door of the verandah opens into a cosy sitting-room. There is nothing which you could point
out as pretty in the furnishing, and decoration there is none; but the room has a delicious,
welcoming look, and makes you want to live in it.

There is the queerest carpet on the floor, with irregular stripes of different colours mingling
indistinctly with the grey groundwork, and all has faded into a pleasant indefiniteness of
tint. There's a high-backed sofa upholstered with black horse-hair, and the springs have evidently
been pressed by generations of Trowbridges who have been born, and reared, and died in the
old Valley Farmhouse. The big, ugly clock, too, with the pendulum showing through a wreath
of flowers on its glass door, has attained the dignity of age, and earned a right to its place
on the crowded mantelpiece by ticking out the years for these same generations. There are patchwork
cushions and others embroidered with worsted and beads, on the sofa and in the great horse-hair-covered
armchair, and the two or three hospitable-looking chairs with rockers. Curious shells, and
wax flowers under a glass case, adorn a carved wooden bracket; and there are family portraits,
enlarged in crayons from old photographs, hanging on the quaintly-papered wall. Between two
windows stands a "secretary bookcase," with a propped-up shelf spread with writing materials
and files of paper. In the middle of the room is a round table with a homemade fancy-work cover,
scarcely showing under its great bowl of mixed country flowers, and its neat piles of books
and magazines. As I went in, the sun blinds were bowed for the summer heat, and the room was
filled with a cool, sea-green light.

Suddenly I thought of Mrs. Ess Kay's magnificent palace in New York, with its fountain court
and splendid drawing rooms. I saw her "little cottage" at Newport, and the other "cottages"
and castles I had grown accustomed to there; but somehow the startling contrast between these
pictures and this only made me more content with my present surroundings.

"What a nice room!" I exclaimed to the girls, pausing for a glance around.

They looked surprised.

"Do you think so?" asked Patty. "We were afraid maybe you wouldn't. The things you're used
to must be a good deal handsomer. Everything's so old here."

"I love old things," said I. "Our house at home is very old, and I wouldn't have anything changed
for worlds, even if it were to be made better."

"Why, that's kind of the way I feel, too!" exclaimed Patty, giving my waist a sympathetic squeeze.
"I like this living-room. But Ide doesn't admire it a little bit."

"If I was Mis' Trowbridge I'd always sit in the parlour," said Ide, "instead of keeping it
shut up, except for best, just because Mr. Trowbridge's ma did before her. It's a real pretty
room. There's a Brussels carpet with roses on the floor, and a handsome suite of red velvet
furniture, and a piano, and a marble table. Patty practises her music there, but aside from
that none of us see the room, only to sweep and dust, till Thanksgiving and Christmas, when
the relations come, or when Mis' Trowbridge has company to tea in winter. Would you like to
see it? You can if you want."

I thanked her, but thought we had better put off the treat until another time, as we were on
our way to my room. I was wondering how to define the difference between Patty and Ide. I saw
that it was very marked, yet I didn't quite understand. The two girls appeared to be on the
same footing in the house, I said to myself, but Ide was far more showy than Patty, seeming
to put herself forward, as if she were afraid of not being noticed, and then she was dressed
so much more elaborately. Perhaps, I thought, Patty was poor, and in a more dependent position
than Ide.

The stairway, very steep and narrow, leads straight up from the "living-room," which is apparently
in the centre of the house and fills the place of a hall. There are no balusters, but a whitewashed
wall on either side, and only one person can go up at a time. At the top is a landing, with
a bare, painted floor, and doors opening from it. One of the doors is mine; and as they showed
me in I could see that Patty and Ide both waited breathlessly for my verdict, their faces looking
quite strained and anxious until I exclaimed:

"How fresh and pretty it is here!"

I meant it, too. It is a dear room, with something pathetic about its simple sweetness, and
the kind thought to give me pleasure which shows in every little innocent detail. The floor
is covered with a white straw matting, and there are no two pieces of furniture that match.
There's a wide, wooden bed of no particular period that I can recognise, yet with an air of
being old-fashioned, and there are stiff, square shams to hide the pillows and turn down over
the top of the sheet, with fluted frills round the edges. There's a thing covered with a veneer
of mahogany, which I should call a chest of drawers, if Patty and Ide hadn't mentioned it as
a "bureau." A mirror divided into two halves hangs over it, with a white crocheted cover to
protect the gilt frame from flies; there's a crocheted pin-cushion, too; and in vases painted
by home talent bloom the sweetest grass-pinks I ever smelled. There are little blue summer
houses with pink children and brown dogs in them, matched all wrong at the edges, on the wall
paper; there is a wash-handstand and a table with a white cover and more flowers; and that's
all except a basket rocking-chair and some hanging shelves; but the white muslin curtains are
tied with blue ribbons, and there's a hand-braided rug before the bed, and there are little
lace mats under the vases. The scent of dried rose leaves and lavender mingles with the perfume
of the pinks; and some of the summer house pagodas on the wall are hidden with old-fashioned
steel engravings and photographs in home-made frames.

I didn't stop to examine the pictures at first, but after Patty and Ide had tripped away ("to
see about my dinner," they said) I was attracted by a faded cabinet photograph framed with
shells. It was a full length figure of a young man on horseback. He was dressed something like
those splendid cowboys they took me to see at Earlscourt when I was a little girl, and the
face was Mr. Brett's. It was so handsome and dashing I could hardly stop staring at it while
I washed off the dust of motoring. Evidently the photograph in its frame has been on the wall
a long time. I am glad they happened to put it in what they call the "spare room," so I can
look at it whenever I like without anyone noticing.

XVII

ABOUT COWS AND NATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS

When I went downstairs, dinner was ready in a cool, shady dining-room, with a bare floor painted
brown, and a long table down the middle. It wasn't quite two o'clock, but it turned out that
the family had had their dinner at noon exactly, and this was a meal only for Mr. Brett and
me, with Patty and Ide to bring us things from the kitchen and wait upon us, while Mrs. Trowbridge
flitted in smiling from time to time, to ask how we were "getting along." It was she who was
cooking for us, and I felt quite distressed at the trouble I was giving, on such a hot day,
too, but she said she was enjoying it.

It was a very funny dinner, according to my ideas, for I never had a meal a bit like it at
home, even when I was small and dined in the daytime with the governess. But it was tremendously
good, though none of the things went together properly. We had delicious young chicken--quite
babies they were, poor dears--fried with cream; and wreathed all round our plates in a semicircle
were a quantity of tiny dishes. Each one had a big dab of something different in it; mashed
potatoes, succotash, green peas, a kind of vegetable marrow to which they gave the unworthy
name of "squash," raw tomatoes, sweet green pickles, preserved strawberries, and goodness knows
what all besides; while, if we stopped eating to breathe or speak, Patty flew in with a plate
of freshly-made things of the most heavenly nature, called corn fritters. Mrs. Trowbridge beamed
all over when I said I should like to live on them for a month. To drink we had tumblers of
iced tea, and there was raspberry vinegar, too, which we were supposed to swallow with our
dinner; and afterwards there was hot apple pie, with custard and slabs of cheese to eat at
the same time.

We were obliged to eat a good deal of everything, otherwise Mrs. Trowbridge would have felt
hurt, and I felt sleepy when we had finished, but I refused to go and lie down to rest, as
they wanted me to, it seemed such a waste of time. At last Mr. Trowbridge offered to show "Cousin
Jim" round the farm, and maybe I looked wistful, for when they found that I was determined
not to take a nap, they asked if I would go with them.

Mr. Trowbridge had on a linen coat now, a long, yellow one, which I should laugh at if I saw
it on the stage in a play, but it suited him, and he looked quite impressive in it. He fanned
himself with a large straw hat, without any ribbon, and talked splendidly to us, as we three
walked together under the trees.

If any English person should write a novel, and make a farmer in it talk like Mr. Trowbridge,
everyone who read the book would say he was impossible. His way of speaking was a little slipshod,
sometimes (though not a bit more than ours when we drop our "g's" and things like that, only
more guileless sounding); but without seeming a bit as if he wanted to show off what he knew--which
is so boring--he quoted Shakespeare, and Wordsworth, and Tennyson; and in mentioning his work
at the hives in the morning, asked if we had read Mæterlinck's "Life of the Bee." From that
he fell to discussing other things of Mæterlinck's with Mr. Brett, and incidentally talked
of Ibsen. There wasn't the least affectation about it all. The quotations and allusions he
made were mixed up incidentally with conversation about the beauty of the country, and life
on a farm. He was interested in the subjects, and took it for granted that we were, so he chatted
about things he cared for, modestly and happily.

By and by he left us alone for a few minutes, while he went to speak to a man who works on
the farm. He was going to show us the maple sugar camp when he came back, and we sat on a felled
oak and waited, with a smell of clover coming to us on the warm breeze, and the "tinkle, tankle"
of cow-bells in the distance.

"What an extraordinary man!" I said to Mr. Brett.

"You mean because he's a farmer," said he, his eyes laughing.

"Well--I suppose I do. But then, of course, he's a gentleman farmer, not an ordinary one at all."

"He's a gentleman in the way that all the good people in the country round are gentlefolk,
because they're self-respecting and kind-hearted and intelligent. But he comes of generations
of workers. They make no pretensions to blue blood, though perhaps they may have some in their
veins, and don't think themselves superior socially to their own farm hands--like that one
over there. Nor do they consider themselves inferior to anybody. Not that they would think
of asserting their claims to equality with your friend Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, for instance.
They simply take it for granted that they are the equals of any other American, or for the
matter of that, persons of any foreign nations. You will perhaps hear them talking about your
king and queen as 'Edward' and 'Alexandra'; but they won't mean the slightest disrespect."

"You needn't be afraid I shall misunderstand anything they may do or say," said I. "My ideas
about them are beginning to crystallise already, as you thought they would. But I'm wondering
at them all, still. They're so utterly new to me, so absolutely different from any types we
have or could have at home."

"What would your mother the Duchess think of them--now, honour bright? Don't dream you'll hurt
my feelings because they're my cousins and we come of the same stock."

I thought for a minute, and then I said:

"Mother would begin to patronise them graciously at first, as if they could be classified with
our farmers--I mean, the peasant ones, not the younger-son or poor-gentleman kind. When she
found she couldn't, she would be inclined to resent it. Then, at last, when a dim, puzzled
inkling of the truth came into her head, and she found out that they knew as much as she about
books and politics and all sorts of things--oh, I can hardly fancy exactly what she would feel;
but I'd trust Mr. and Mrs. Trowbridge or anyone like them not to appear at a disadvantage with
her, whatever she did with them. They wouldn't have self-consciousness enough to be overawed
by her, though she can be so dreadfully alarming. Why, Mr. Brett, in a way I believe they're
like Us--more like us, really, deep down and far back, than a good many enormously rich people
I met at Newport, who think no end of themselves and live in palaces, and know Royalties abroad.
Just as I said once to Sally--Miss Woodburn--we take ourselves for granted, and then don't
make any more fuss or bother about our manners or whether we're going to do the right thing
or not. But a few of the people even in your Four Hundred don't seem quite easy in their minds
about themselves. I've never seen anything in big houses at home, where I've been with Mother
or Vic, to come near the luxury of theirs, yet several I've met can't seem to relax and look
thoroughly comfortable, as if they really liked it. They don't loll about as we do; they only
pretend to loll, because it's in their part in the play they're acting--oh, such a smart, society
kind of play, with lots of changes of dress and scene in every act. They build castles because
it's the smartest thing they can do, and because grand people always did it a long time ago.
Of course, in old times you had to live in them and couldn't have nice seaside cottages with
balconies, because if you did your enemies shot off your head, or poured boiling oil on you;
but nowadays they merely say horrid things behind your back, and it's just play-acting to build
new ones. People talk about a man being 'worth' so many millions, as if it didn't matter what
else he's worth, and they seem to be worrying a lot about themselves. Now, I can't imagine
your cousins doing that. They just take themselves for granted, as we do in England. Their
behaviour is like the air they breathe, and as much a part of themselves as that air is when
it's in their lungs. There's a kind of invisible bond between our kind of people at home and
people like these, I think, if you come to study it. Partly, it's from having all one's natural
interests in the country, maybe, and not just going into the country from a town to play. They
are real. There's nothing artificial about them."

"You've got hold of things even sooner than I thought you would, Lady Betty," said Mr. Brett,
when I stopped, horrified at myself for my long harangue, in which I'd been thinking out things
as I went on. "But all the same, though these new types and this pleasant Ohio farm interest
you now, you know you'd rather die than be doomed to live among such people and in such a place."

"Perhaps I should be bored after a while, but I don't feel now as if I should. I know I could
be happy if I had people with me whom I loved."

"But could you love anyone who----"

"Well, I've got rid of that fellow," said Mr. Trowbridge cheerfully. "Now we'll have a look
around the camp and I'll show you how we tap the maple trees for the sap; then afterwards we'll
go into the sugar house where we boil it down and make the maple syrup."

We'd been talking so earnestly that we hadn't heard him come up, and I felt quite dazed for
a minute.

He explained everything to us, or rather to me, for Mr. Brett knew all about it beforehand.
Then we had a long walk over the hills, which are billowy and wooded, like Surrey, and when
we came back Mr. Trowbridge took me to the beehives to get some honey and show me what a queen
bee is like. He gave me a hat with a mosquito-net veil and put on one himself. Then he opened
a hive, and when I wasn't a bit nervous, because I trusted him, he said, "I tell you what it
is, Lady Betty, you're a trump. I shouldn't be surprised if there isn't something in blood
after all."

I was pleased, for I don't think that he or any of the others at the Valley Farm are the kind
to say nice things to you unless they really mean them.

After we had done all this sight-seeing, it was past five o'clock, and I was longing for tea.
"We shall have it soon now," I said to myself, as we sat on the side verandah on benches and
rocking-chairs, fanning ourselves with palm-leaf fans. Mrs. Trowbridge and the girls had changed
their dresses while we were away, and put on white ones, fresh and nice, though the plainest
of the plain--except Ide, who had a pink Alsatian bow in her hair and a flowered sash. I think
they must have washed their faces with yellow kitchen soap, too, for they were so incredibly
clean and polished that the green of the waving trees seemed to be reflected in their complexion
in little sheens and shimmers. I don't suppose it would have occurred to them to dust off the
shine with powder, as Mrs. Trowbridge and pretty Patty seem to have no vanity; or perhaps they
would consider it wicked.

They all sat and rocked, but nobody said anything about tea.

"They do have it late," I thought.

Suddenly Ide exclaimed, "My, how thirsty I am!" and she got up.

"Oh, joy," I said to myself.

"I guess I'll go and get a drink of water from the mineral spring," she went on; and then catching
my yearning eye she asked if I would like to go too.

When your whole soul is sighing for tea, cold water does seem a poor substitute, but I began
to lose hope now, so I followed her. The water--which we got at a spring in the deep grass,
and drank out of a tin dipper, was deliciously cold, more refreshing than iced water, and didn't
make you thirstier than ever again, in half a second. Still, I couldn't tear my thoughts from
tea, and when we got back to the house I was encouraged to find that Mrs. Trowbridge and Patty
had disappeared.

"I must go and help them get tea," said Ide, "if you'll excuse me."

I said "of course," with alacrity, and hoped soon to see a tray coming out into the verandah,
where it was so cool and breezy now. Half an hour passed, however, and nothing happened. It
was getting on towards six o'clock, and a smell of frying floated to us from the kitchen.

"I suppose they're beginning to cook something that takes a long time to do, for dinner--or
supper, rather," I thought. "She said they were getting tea, so----"

"Tea's ready, good people, if you're ready for it," announced Mrs. Trowbridge's gentle voice
at the door.

Mr. Trowbridge and Mr. Brett got up, and I did too, disappointed that we weren't to have it
out of doors; but still, I reminded myself, the sitting room would be nice and cool. But I
found that we were being led through to the dining room.

There was the long table laid out again, with a regular sit-down meal; cream cheese, and cake,
and blackberries, and a big plate of honey; some curious kind of smoked meat cut very thin,
and the potatoes which I'd smelled frying.

"What an odd tea!" I thought. But the oddest part was that after all there wasn't any tea.

We sat down, and at the far end of the table were two young men, all soapy and sleek, their
hair very wet and their sleeves (with no cuffs showing) very short. We were introduced to each
other, and they bowed rather awkwardly without saying anything, but I couldn't understand their
names. One of the two never spoke, and ate with his knife until he saw me looking, when he
stopped and got red. After that he cut up everything on his plate quite small before he ate
it, and stuck out his elbows. The other, who sat next to Ide, talked to her in a low voice,
but I caught the words "picnic," and "beaux," and they both giggled a great deal.

Instead of tea, those who liked had black coffee with thick cream, and the others drank what
I should call lemon-squash, but they all spoke of it as lemonade.

It wasn't much past six when we finished, and soon Mr. Brett asked me how I would like to walk
over to Mrs. Randal's and see my friend Miss Woodburn, since she couldn't come to me. The place
was less than a mile away by short cuts which he knew, and he would take me there.

The shadows were beginning to grow long and thin when we started, though the sun was still
bright, so I carried a sunshade, and went hatless, American fashion.

To avoid going out in the road we took field paths and skirted along the edge of meadows where
grain was tall and golden, or white as a summer snowstorm. There were no proper stiles, as
with us, so whenever we came to one of the rough fences which divided one field from another
I had to mount on the first or second bar, and let Mr. Brett lift me over.

He is so strong that he did it as if I were a bundle of down instead of a tall girl, and I
had much the same exhilarating sensation I used to have as a wee thing when I rode wildly on
Mohunsleigh's foot. I was glad when we came to the fences, and that there were a good many
of them. But I wasn't at all glad when Mr. Brett jumped me over into a grass meadow where there
was a whole drove of ferocious-looking black and white cattle.

"Couldn't we go some other way round?" I asked, longing to get behind him, but ashamed for
him to see what an idiot I am about cows, and perhaps make him lose his good opinion of me
as a reasonably brave girl.

"I'm afraid not, unless we turn back," said he. "But you needn't mind them. Remember, you're
with an old 'cow puncher.'"

"Oh, were you one, too?" I asked trying to seem at ease.

"Too?"

"I was thinking of a friend of my cousin Mohunsleigh's whom he was always talking about, a
Mr. Harborough, who lives in San Francisco. Mohunsleigh knew him abroad somewhere. He used
to be a 'cow puncher,'--whatever that is--in Texas, I believe, though now he's a millionaire.
Did you ever hear of him?"

"Yes," said Mr. Brett, in rather a dry way.

"I was so disappointed not to meet him."

(As we walked on, I kept my eyes on the horrible animals who were grazing at some distance.)

"Why?" he asked the question almost sharply.

"Because my cousin says he's such a glorious person."

"Well gilded, anyhow."

"Oh, I don't mean on that account. I'm rather blasé of millionaires lately. But from Mohunsleigh's
accounts he must be--well, the sort of a man we like."

"We?"

"Girls. Brave and adventurous, and reckless, and that sort of thing."

"I'm afraid his millions are more of an attraction to most girls."

"Why, you're as bad as he!" I exclaimed.

"In what way?"

"Unjust, and--almost morbid. I wouldn't have thought you would be like that, though perhaps
one can't blame him so much, if he's had bad experiences. I am sorry for him. It must be miserable
to fancy always that people care for you for your money."

"I'm sorry for him, too. At least, I used to be--whenever I thought of him."

"Aren't you now?"

"No. I believe he's a changed man. He's found that there are exceptions to the gloomy rule
he'd laid down for humanity."

"Oh, then he's happier."

"So far as I understand the case, he isn't exactly happy yet. He isn't out of the woods. In
fact, he's in the thickest part. But he sees blue sky and the sun shining overhead."

"What do you mean?"

"A fellow who knows him very well told me that Harborough had fallen in love with a beautiful
girl who was so unworldly that she might be induced to marry for love--if she cared."

"Then why isn't he happy?"

"Because he doesn't know whether she can ever care for him--except as a friend. He's sure she
likes him pretty well, but there's nothing in that. I'm mighty ignorant about such things myself,
but they say if a girl doesn't mind showing that she's your friend, and values you in a way,
it's a sign she's a thousand miles off from falling in love with you. What's your opinion on
the subject--as you seem to be rather interested in Harborough?"

"My goodness, Mr. Brett, there's a cow looking at us. Oh, what shall we do? It's the worst
cow of all. It's putting its head down now. It doesn't like us. Oh, what an appalling beast.
I believe it must be a bull."

"It's a very young one," said he, calmly. "Now, don't be frightened. This is going to be nothing
at all."

"Are you sure?"

"Can't you trust me?"

"Yes. I know you won't let me be hurt. But you----"

"Don't worry. Perhaps we shall have a little fun. Just wait."

I could cheerfully have waited a hundred years, and then put it off again; but it didn't look
as if we should have to wait long--not more than three-quarters of a dreadful second, with
my blood in my head, and all the iced water I had drunk at Newport in my spine.

The cows were delighted. Evidently they regarded the horrid, thick-necked brute as their champion.
They didn't follow him towards us, but lifted their heads and stared complacently, as much
as to say, "Isn't he a splendid fellow? Now he's going to give them what they deserve."

The rest happened so quickly it was all in a jumble. With a smile, Mr. Brett reached out and
took my sunshade, which I'd closed. Just as the bull came at us, he opened it in the creature's
face. The bull swerved a few inches, surprised; and the next thing I knew the sunshade was
tossed away, Mr. Brett had seized the animal by his horns, and was vaulting on his back with
a laugh. "Run to the nearest fence," said he.

He did it as easily as if it were play, and so it seemed to be for him. The bull tore about,
ramping and raving, while I obediently flew for the fence and scrambled over without ceremony.
There I turned, panting, frightened, yet laughing in spite of myself. Mr. Brett's hat had fallen
off, and his short hair was ruffled across his forehead. Riding the black and white bull, hanging
on by legs, as well as arms, he looked like a runaway schoolboy, revelling in a mischievous
"lark." His eyes sparkled, and his white teeth shone.

The bull was sure he could throw his rider at first, but finding he couldn't, was very much
surprised. His wild gallop subsided to a trot, and embracing his great neck, Mr. Brett bent
far down to one side, to snatch up my sunshade, which lay on the grass, open and undamaged.
A few moment's later, he had steered the bull in some curious way with his feet, so that the
beast came loping stupidly near the fence. Then Mr. Brett jumped off, and vaulted over.

"That was a good bit of sport," said he. "It reminds me of old times, when we chaps used to
ride steers for a wager. I'm a little out of practice now; but I hope you were amused."

"I was much too terrified," I said, thankful that he was on the right side of the fence at last.

"Then I apologise for the exhibition. The silly brute didn't know he was our bull, you see,
but I reckon he'll remember now, and act accordingly. Here's your parasol, Lady Betty. I don't
think it's hurt. As for my hat, I'll make the cows a present of it. I don't want to keep you
waiting any longer."

"Fancy Daniel when he got safely out of the lions' den going back for his hat!" I exclaimed.

"He was just the sort of man to have done it," said Mr. Brett, "if he hadn't a lady waiting."

After that, nothing else happened to upset us on the way to Sally.

The place where she is staying isn't a farm, but quite a small cottage in a lovely garden,
walled in with oaks and maples; and Mrs. Randal sells seeds and cuttings.

A young girl came to the door when we rang, and asked us to "please sit down on the piazza";
she would call Miss Woodburn. Then we had a few minutes to wait, and Sally appeared.

I was glad to see her! And when she held me tight, and kissed me, I had to wink back some silly
tears. It was so good to feel that she cared about me, and would sympathise in everything,
for I knew she would.

After Mr. Brett had said "how do you do," and a few polite words, he added that he would just
stroll over to the Green Dairy Farm across the way. He knew the farmer there, and would like
to have a chat with him. We settled that he was to come back for me in an hour, and then Sally
and I were left alone together.

She made me begin at the beginning and tell all my adventures, cause as well as effect, before
she would give me any of her news, or even her opinions on the situation as far as it concerned me.

It made quite a long story, and Sally was a beautiful listener, as only sympathetic and unselfish
people can be.

"There wasn't anything else for me to do, was there?" I asked, when she knew everything exactly
as it had happened.

She complimented me on my "pluck," like the dear creature she is, and said she hadn't it in
her heart to be sorry, as things had turned out, that I had had such a chase to find her.

"To tell the truth, it was your affairs that drove me to Chicago," she went on. "I don't mind
your knowing now, deah. We can talk freely about things I couldn't discuss with you before.
Of course, I always knew Katherine wanted you for Potter, and that they'd both do anything
to get you. It began with her trying to keep other men away from you even on the ship. Do you
remember? Nobody could get near you but Tom Doremus, and he wouldn't if Kath hadn't been afraid
of Mrs. Van der Windt. It was just the same in Newport, whenever she could fix it so. I couldn't
exactly warn you; it wouldn't have been nice. They are my cousins, and I was Kath's guest--though
I shouldn't have been for long, if I hadn't wanted to watch over you. But you know I did drop
hints sometimes, didn't I? It wasn't my business if you'd fallen in love with Potter, but though
he isn't a bad fellow, he's not good enough or strong enough for you, Betty, and I should have
been mighty sick at heart if he had got you."

"I never felt he wanted me, really," I said, "although he was always proposing."

"Oh, yes, he did want you. Perhaps he wasn't truly in love at first, though he always admired
you, deah. There was an actress that he was crazy about last winter--a nice girl, too, and
he would have married her if it hadn't been for Katherine, who was wild over it, said such
a mésalliance in the family would ruin her as well as him, and contrived to break it off somehow.
Potter never cared for anyone else so much. The girl seemed to understand his temper exactly,
and though he was heart and soul for winning you, after the race was begun, I shouldn't wonder
a bit--now he's lost you--if that affair didn't come on again some day. He might do worse."

"I wish the girl joy of him," said I. "But how was it you went away from Newport?"

"Oh, I told Kath what I thought of her for trying to trap you. It was that, and nothing else.
And she didn't like it. She almost asked me to go, and though I knew it was to get me out of
the way, I had to do it. I wish you could have met Mrs. Hale in Chicago. She is the nicest,
quaintest woman. You saw her happy family? Well, she's so kind-hearted that when her horses
are out at grass, she has a big sunbonnet made for each one. You would laugh to see them prancing
about with their bonnets flapping. And she stops cab horses in the street to give them sugar.
But after all, it's better for you to be here--with the Trowbridges."

"Mr. Brett has been a saint to me," said I.

Sally smiled her three-cornered smile.

"I think from what you tell me of some of the things you've said to him, and some of the things
which have happened, that he has been a saint--more of a saint than you know."

"You mean I've tried his temper?" I asked anxiously.

"Not exactly his temper. But never mind. I'll talk to you about myself now."

So she did. And it seems that this invalid widow, Mrs. Randal, whom she's come to nurse, is
the mother of the man she told me about in the Park--the man who turned monk because he loved
her, and thought she didn't care.

"I come once or twice a year, even when she's well," said Sally, with the soft voice and eyes
which she has for this one subject of all in the world. "It's the best of the few pleasures
I have, to be with her and--talk of him; of him when he was a little boy; of him when he was
a young man, happy in the thought of the future--not knowing what was to come. I found this
little place for her, years ago now. She wasn't happy in Kentucky, for there were relatives
there who were not congenial, and used to say things--of her son's religion--which distressed
her. But she is old now, and very delicate. She knows I would never forgive her if she didn't
have her little maid telegraph for me when she is suffering. I always come at once, and would,
no matter where I was. You see, I've no mother of my own; and she is his mother; it's almost
the same as if she were mine. But don't look so sad, dear. I'm not sad. She's going to get
well. We've been glancing over old photographs of his this evening. She has quite forgiven
me for the past."

"I should think so!" I couldn't help exclaiming. "You were the one who suffered most."

"Not more than his mother, child! But she's old, as I said, and thank heaven I'm beginning
to grow old, too. Each day is one less before we meet--he and I. That's what I'm looking forward
to now, and I'm not a bit sad, so kiss me, and tell me just what you think of those dear things,
the Trowbridges."

Going home, Mr. Brett and I walked along the road until we'd passed the cow meadow; then we
took to the short cuts again. A lovely blue darkness was just touched with the faint radiance
of a new moon, as if the lid of a box had snapped shut on the sun; and the moment the light
was gone, the fields lit up with thousands and thousands of tiny, pulsing, flitting sparks.

"What is it?" I asked, astonished.

"Fireflies," said he. "Did you never see any before?"

"Never. How wonderful. They are the most exquisite, magical little things!"

"Then I'm glad you're seeing them for the first time with me," he said.

I stopped, and made him stop, to look at the enchanted rain of tiny lights. We stood in a billowy
meadow, with the pale gray-green of the stacked oats dimly silvered by the baby moon, that
was hurrying down the west after the sun. The bundles of grain made pointed, gothic arches,
and through these, back and forth, in and out, threaded the fireflies, like fairies with lanterns
searching for lost members of their band.

What a pity they never come to England to search!

When we got home the stars were pricking out in the sky, and Patty and Ide were down by the
gate, counting them. It seems, if you can count seven stars for seven nights, then the first
man who touches your hand afterwards you're bound to marry. I counted my first seven, and I
do hope it won't rain for a week.

Although I had been so longing for tea, I hadn't been hungry, and had scarcely eaten anything
when we had it. Now, I was beginning to be starved. We all sat on the verandah, and Mr. Trowbridge
told us things about astronomy, in which he seems as learned as in everything else. By-and-by
it was ten o'clock, and Mrs. Trowbridge asked if I weren't tired, and wouldn't like to go to
bed. Then I knew the worst. There wasn't going to be any supper.

We all bade each other good-night.

"What time is breakfast?" I asked Mrs. Trowbridge, expecting something abnormal in the way
of earliness, but my eyes did open when she said half-past six.

"You don't need to get up unless you want," she went on. "Patty or Ide will carry you up something."

I wouldn't hear of that, though. I said I would prefer to do what everybody else did, and I
saw that this pleased Mr. Trowbridge, who had perhaps feared I would show symptoms of the pampered
aristocrat. But he little knows what small pampering I get at home!

By-and-by I stood at my window, watching the fireflies and envying them because they could
get their own supper. Just then among the trees there was a bigger, yellower light than their
tiny lanterns. A faint smell of good tobacco smoke came up.

"Lady Betty, is that you?" asked Mr. Brett's voice.

"Yes," I answered, pushing up the frame with the mosquito netting, and leaning over the window
sill.

"I've got something for you. Have you a box or basket you can let down with string, if I toss
a ball of it up to you?"

"There's a small waste-paper basket," I said, quite excited.

He tossed, and I caught--Stan taught me how, long ago. Then I made the basket ready and sent
it down.

"Now," he called after a minute. I hauled the basket up carefully.

"Good-night," said he. "There's a note in it, among other things. Now, pull down your mosquito
net, or you'll have trouble."

It was fun opening the basket. There were two chicken sandwiches in it, in a napkin, a piece
of jelly cake, a peach, and an ice-cold bottle of milk.

The note was just a few lines scribbled with pencil on a sheet torn from a memorandum book.

"I've been feeling wretchedly guilty about you," it began, "almost as much of a brute as if
you were some innocent, helpless creature I'd killed, and buried under the leaves in the woods.
No tea this afternoon, and you an English girl! When they say 'tea' here they mean the evening
meal--the last one. I, like a beast, didn't notice that you ate nothing; not that I wasn't
thinking of you, for I was. I didn't even have the sense to realise that you were being sent
perishing to bed. It was Patty who saw all, but was too shy to speak to you. This humble offering
is her thought. You shan't be starved after to-night. There was a question of mine you didn't
answer this afternoon. I've got a grudge against that black and white steer."

I couldn't think what he meant at first. Then I remembered how he had been asking my opinion
about the love affairs of Mohunsleigh's millionaire friend. I don't see, though, why he should
care so much what I think of them. It would be lots more interesting if he would ask me questions
about himself.

XVIII

ABOUT SOME COUNTRY FOLK, AND WALKER'S EMPORIUM

The day after I came to Valley Farm was one of the longest days of my life. Not that it wasn't
pleasant, for it was. But when you get up before six, and finish breakfast at seven, it does
give you a good many hours to do what you like with.

I wasn't allowed to help Mrs. Trowbridge and the girls with their work; Mr. Brett went off
directly after breakfast with Mr. Trowbridge and the two mysterious young men, to get in hay
or do something useful and farmy, so I sat in the maple grove with Vivace (who is a great favourite
in the household) and wrote down all my experiences since Chicago. We had an enormous dinner
at twelve, which made me feel very odd, as I'm not used to it; but when we were called to "tea"
I knew better than I did yesterday what to expect.

Now, I've been a boarder at the Trowbridges' (I pay four dollars a week, about as much, I suppose,
as is spent on one person's food at each meal at Mrs. Ess Kay's!) for eight days, and I'm perfectly
happy. I can't bear to think of the time coming when I must go home. It will come, of course,
for they will have to send for me whether they really want me back or not, and then I will
never see any of these dear people again. Probably I shall never even see Mr. Brett. He says
he must go West again soon, that there are things which call him there. That will be the end.
I wish one didn't get to depend on other people so much. I should like to be quite cold hearted,
and not care for anyone; then it wouldn't matter when you had to part. But there's no use in
thinking about horrid things just yet.

I've written home, of course. I wrote the day after I arrived. At first, I felt I ought to
cable; but if I did, they might send at once, and on second thoughts I decided it wasn't necessary
to go to the expense. So I just wrote to Mother to say I couldn't stand it with Mrs. Ess Kay
on account of her brother, and I'd left suddenly to join Sally Woodburn in the country, where
I was boarding quite close to her. I wrote to Mrs. Ess Kay, too, and said the same thing, asking
her to kindly send on my boxes. I didn't mention Mr. Brett, because she wouldn't have remembered
who he was, or if she did by any chance, she would only disapprove of his daring to exist still,
and perhaps write or wire something rude.

She sent the boxes by what they call "express," but didn't answer my letter, which rather astonished
me, as I had thought she would scold, and had dreaded it. But when I told Sally, she wasn't
as much surprised as I was. She knew already everything that happened after I ran away from
The Moorings, and told me all about it, which interested me a great deal. Mrs. Ess Kay had
written her some things, and Mrs. Pitchley (whose maid is an intimate friend of Mrs. Ess Kay's
Louise) had supplied all the missing details.

It seems that the day after the Pink Ball Mrs. Ess Kay had one of her headaches--and no wonder.
Feeling very ill, she didn't take much interest in me, and took it for granted when Louise
said I wasn't out of my room, that I wanted to sleep till luncheon.

Potter had been so furious that he thought to punish me for my sins by sulking. Mrs. Ess Kay
did not appear at luncheon, and Potter went out somewhere. But when I didn't show myself, or
even ring, the servants began to think it odd, and spoke to Louise. She knocked at my door,
and when after rapping several times there was no answer, she opened it to find the room empty,
the bed smooth, my boxes packed, and all Mrs. Ess Kay's presents to me spread out on a sofa.

By that time it was after two; and if only they had known, I was leaving the Waldorf-Astoria
to take the train for Chicago with Mr. Brett.

Mrs. Ess Kay was so nervous with her headache and the reaction after all her work in getting
up the Great Affair, that when she was told I was nowhere to be found, she had hysterics, and
slapped Louise.

Potter was sent for to the Casino, and came home in a rage. They talked things over, and made
up their minds that I had either caught a ship sailing for home, or else had gone to Chicago
to join Sally. If it hadn't been that they were afraid of a scandal coming out in some horrid
society paper, they would have applied to the police for help, but as it was they didn't dare,
and Potter said he could manage everything himself.

A ship really had sailed that day, so as well as telegraphing to Sally, Potter went to the
offices, then to the docks, and made all sorts of enquiries. From what he heard about some
people who had engaged berths at the last minute, he couldn't be quite sure I wasn't one of
them, having gone under an assumed name. To add to the trouble, no answer came from Sally.
Mrs. Hale, according to instructions, had opened the telegram, and knowing something of the
story from Sally, wasn't anxious to relieve Mrs. Ess Kay's mind about me, in too much of a
hurry. Instead of having the message wired again, she enclosed it in an envelope, and sent
it on to Sally by post, so there was another delay; and they knew nothing for certain until
a letter from Sally and one from me arrived at about the same time.

Sally's opinion was and is, that Mrs. Ess Kay has something up her sleeve; that she won't write
to me because she wants to show how hurt and scandalised she is by my ungracious conduct, but
that she has some idea for getting even with me sooner or later. If she hadn't that to keep
her up, Sally thinks she couldn't have resisted answering my letter with a tirade. Fortunately
she can't claw me away from the Trowbridges and make me marry Potter--even if he would have
me now, after all my badness--otherwise she would perhaps have tried to act at once. And she
can't have me put in prison on bread and water and solitary confinement, as no doubt she would
like to do. Still, I don't feel quite easy in my mind about her silence, lest Sally may be
right about some disagreeable plan she's hatching. However, as long as Mr. Brett is here, I
feel as if he would contrive not to let anything very dreadful happen to me.

I've found out everything about all the members of the family at Valley Farm, now; and I've
got acquainted with most of the neighbours. They call them neighbours if they live anywhere
within twelve or fifteen miles, and a good many are related to each other, or connected by
marriage, while even those who are not have mostly known each other ever since they were children;
probably went to school together at a funny little white-painted, wooden building on a hill,
which is the "district school." It must be rather fun to teach in it, because if some American
stories I've read since I came here are true to life, you board first at one house and then
another, giving good advice and helping everyone; and all the young men in the country round
about fall in love with you. I thought, if Mother should be too angry with me for refusing
Potter Parker and running away, to let me come home again, I might apply for such a situation;
but it seems that nowadays you have to know a great deal, and I should never be taken on, because,
unfortunately, I have to do the multiplication table on my fingers.

Mr. Trowbridge, although a farmer who works in his own fields, is an "Honourable." I was surprised
when I heard that, as I didn't suppose people had titles in America. But he's a senator or
something in his own State, which is very important, so he is called Honourable officially--and
on letters, as one is at home if that's all one can scrape up by way of a courtesy title.

The two young men who come in to eat with us, but are never seen about the house at any other
time, are "farm hands," though they are not treated at all like servants, and Mr. Trowbridge
lends them the newest books and magazines (of which he has quantities) to read in the evening.

One, whose name is Elisha, was in love with Patty, but she didn't care for him, so he is very
melancholy and won't talk at the table. But he has cheered up a little lately, and has bought
tall collars like Mr. Brett's, instead of wearing turned-over ones which showed far down his
neck; and he has sent me flowers through Ide, several times. I tried to thank him for the first
ones, but he blushed so much that his forehead got damp, and immediately afterwards he went
away and hid for hours, which kept him from his supper; so I thought it better to say nothing
about the next.

The other young man, Albert, is paying attention to Ide. Nobody knows whether they are engaged
yet, although they go to the apple orchard regularly every evening and sit together in a boat
swing which is there, or if it rains they sit on the front porch, until quite late. They don't
seem to have much to say to each other, though, for one of my windows is directly over that
porch, but I never hear a sound--not even a laugh. But it seems that in this part of the country
it is the thing for a girl and a young man to be left alone together as much as possible while
they are making up their minds whether or not they like each other well enough to be engaged.

It is very strange about Patty and Ide. Though Patty is so quiet, almost meek in her ways,
and dresses so plainly, and is quite contented to work in the hot kitchen, cooking and washing
dishes, it turns out that she is a very rich girl; or will be. She is an orphan, and her grandfather,
although a farmer, has more than a million dollars (which sounds tremendous, but wouldn't be
as impressive, I suppose, if one did it in pounds); and when he dies, as he must before long,
as he is very old, Patty will have all his money.

Young people get on his nerves, so Patty lives with the Trowbridges, who are friends of his,
and helps Mrs. Trowbridge with her work. She is so pretty and has such sweet ways that she
might make a success anywhere, and it struck me as a pity that she should perhaps marry some
young farmer in the neighbourhood, and never know any other life than this. I remarked something
of the sort to Mr. Brett when he told me about Patty, and he looked suddenly miserable as if
what I'd said had hurt.

"I thought you felt you could be happy among such people as these," he answered, rather irrelevantly.

Then I fancied that I understood a little, for he seems to think that he is like the men here,
but he isn't a bit, oh, not the least bit in the world, though he says he was brought up on
a farm as a little boy, before he ran away and went far out West, and that it's only an "accident
of fate" he isn't an Albert or an Elisha. As if he could ever have been like one of them! I
have never known a man as interesting as he.

Ide really is a sort of servant, but she would go away instantly if anybody called her that;
and she is so afraid someone may think she is inferior to the others in the house because she
is paid wages for her work, that she does her hair elaborately, wears smarter dresses than
the rest, and puts herself rather forward with strangers so as to impress them. She wouldn't
even like to be called a "help," but says that she "obliges" Mrs. Trowbridge, and she wouldn't
stop long enough to draw another breath if she were not treated better, if anything, than Patty.

Even in the East, in very grand houses, I thought some of the servants were rather offhand
and queer, though they did consent to have their meals in the servants' hall or somewhere,
and not sit in the drawing room. I suppose the reason why they are so different with us, and
so polite and well trained, is because at home they are willing to go on being servants all
their lives, whereas, in America, it's only a phase in a person's career. You may be a parlour
maid one year; the next you may keep a hotel; and the next you may be a millionairess travelling
in Europe. There's nothing to prevent, if it's in you, and naturally you always hope it is.

The Trowbridges' neighbours are almost as nice as they are. After I had been here two or three
days I was feeding the chickens with Mr. Trowbridge after "tea," when a man and woman came
up the avenue. They were countrified looking and rather awkward, I thought at first glance,
which was the only one I took, as I at once left Mr. Trowbridge to talk with the newcomers
and went away. It wasn't Ide's time yet to sit with Albert, so I found an apple, and sat and
rocked in the boat swing with a book I'd left there earlier in the afternoon. Presently, however,
down ran Patty to ask if I would mind coming back to the house, as Mr. and Mrs. Engelhorn had
come especially to see me.

"To see me?" I repeated. "What for?"

"Oh, I suppose they thought it would be polite to call," said Patty. "They're such nice people.
They have the farm with the low house opposite this. Mrs. Engelhorn was a city girl. Her father
is the best jeweller in Arcona, and her brother has the biggest steam cleaning establishment
there. She's been beautifully educated, and he's very intelligent. I guess you'll like them."

"Oh, I'll come, of course," I said. "I didn't dream they wanted to see me." But I would much
rather have stopped where I was and read the book. Of course it's only prejudice, and the way
one has been brought up which makes one feel as if it were odd to meet tradespeople, and it's
nonsense, too; for as soon as they get horribly rich nobody seems to mind nowadays, which shows
how little sense there is in the idea. Still, I did want to laugh, though I was ashamed of
myself; but a picture of Mother being called on formally by a steam cleaner would come up before
me.

Mr. and Mrs. Engelhorn had put on their best clothes, and they were dears. I was as agreeable
as I knew how to be, and after I had been with them a little while, I felt that it was they
who were superior. They talked about the most interesting and learned things, just as Mr. Trowbridge
does, and in the same simple, modest way. We went into the parlour, where Mrs. Engelhorn played
as well as a professional, and sang exquisitely, in a cultivated contralto voice. I could have
cried to see how work-worn her hands looked, as they flew so cleverly over the keys of Mrs.
Trowbridge's splendid Steinway Grand piano, which is much finer and in better condition than
ours at home. After they had gone, Mr. Trowbridge told me that Mr. Engelhorn is the greatest
authority on geology in the State of Ohio, that he knows just as much about botany, and is
a fine Greek and Latin scholar, having picked up all his knowledge himself without any University
training. Americans are wonderful!

Other people just as interesting in different ways have been, since, and there was only one
I didn't like. He came yesterday, and is a dissenting parson, a Congregationalist, I think,
though I don't know what that means, or how it's different from a Methodist or a Presbyterian.
He and his wife arrived to noon dinner, and I had to be civil because the Trowbridges respect
them very much; but it was difficult when the man said that England was the most immoral and
decaying country in the world, and his wife echoed him. He is a smug old fellow with a fringe
of grey fluff growing out all round under his chin; and his upper lip, very long and shaved,
is like the straight cover you see on mantelpieces in country hotels.

I summoned courage to stand up for England, and the wife--a fat, sallow creature with three
chins and a dissenting-looking chignon--glared at me as if she expected white bears to crawl
out from under the table and gobble me up.

"Why do you think England is such a wicked country?" I asked.

"Because, to mention only one reason [as if the others were too bad to tell] your clergymen
are put into their places by patronage, without any regard to their qualifications as teachers
of religion."

"At least they're gentlemen," I snapped.

"Superficially, they may be," he admitted, as if to pry under the surface would be worse than
"scratching a Russian to find a Tartar." "But they are Puppets and Sycophants."

Unluckily I don't know what a sycophant is exactly, so it would have been dangerous to argue;
and anyway, before I could get out another word he had gone on again.

"Mrs. Panter and myself had a chance to go to Great Britain last year," he said. "Our congregation
offered us the trip with Cook's tickets, for ten weeks, to show their appreciation of my services.
But after reflection, we decided not to undertake the tour. I have no wish to see England as
it is to-day. Such illusions as are left to me I would rather keep. It would depress me to
visit a country which is going down hill as Britain is, morally, financially and intellectually.
Trade is leaving her, and coming to us. We are getting her shipping, we are taking away her
steel and iron market for all the world, and she deserves to have lost what she is losing;
still, London must be a sad sight to those who have eyes to see, and----"

"I don't think you'd find that grass has begun to grow in Bond Street yet," said I. "And if
you fancy that our finances are in such a bad way, you had better read the Blue Book."

I did think this was smart of me, for I hardly know the Blue Book from a Book of Beauty, but
I've heard Stan say that you're obliged to believe it, and that it proves England to be increasing
every year in prosperity. So I was glad I remembered to speak of it, and catching Mr. Brett's
eyes I saw such a twinkling smile in them that I hurried to look away, or I should have laughed
and spoiled everything.

There couldn't be a greater contrast between two men than between the Reverend Jonas Panter
and the great Whit Walker of the Emporium at Hermann's Corners. We drove to Mr. Walker's after
the Panters had gone, as we all felt (though nobody put it precisely into words) that we wanted
some enlivening.

We didn't start until after "tea," as the Emporium is always open till half past nine, and
there was going to be an "ice cream festival" there that night. I didn't know what an ice cream
festival meant, but Mr. Trowbridge said I should see for myself, and it would probably be different
from anything I had yet experienced.

Everybody from the farm went except Elisha, who didn't wish to, as he is not quite happy yet,
and is practising the flute of evenings. Mr. Trowbridge and Mr. Brett and I all drove in the
buggy. It was rather a squeeze in one seat, but it was fun, and we were very merry. I like
buggies, though they do sound almost improper to an English ear, and it makes it seem more
amusing, somehow, because they talk about going for "a ride" instead of a drive.

The rest all squashed into a big wagon, and sat on the hay. I would have gone in that way too,
but Mr. Trowbridge wanted me to try his horse; and we could hear the others laughing every
minute as they came jolting on behind us.

It was about seven miles to Hermann's Corners, and after a lovely drive through charming, peaceful
country we arrived just as it was beginning to be dusk.

I couldn't have imagined such a place as the Emporium, and when I was in the thick of it I
said to myself that it would be worth one's while coming over to the States just to visit it,
if nothing else. If I had to choose between, I believe I'd rather see it than Niagara Falls;
for one knows Niagara Falls from biographs and things, and nothing short of actually seeing
could give one the slightest idea of Mr. Whit Walker and his Emporium.

My first impression of the Emporium was a huge, rambling wooden building rather like a vast
barn with a dozen smaller barns tacked on to it, and windows let in. It is painted pea-green,
and has a rough verandah running partly round it--a high verandah with no steps, or if any,
at such long intervals that you must search for them. But as there's no pavement we just scrambled
out of the buggy and cart onto the verandah, and there we were landed among the most extraordinary
collection of things I ever dreamed of. The stock in the Emporium having overflowed from the
inside onto the verandah, we stumbled about among boxes of eggs, sewing machines, crates of
dishes, garden tools, brooms, rocking chairs, perambulators, boots, "canned" fruit, children's
toys, luggage, green vegetables, ice cream freezers, bales of calico, men's suits, piled-up
books, clothes lines, and a thousand other "goods."

A number of young men were sitting about on the biggest of the boxes, and on chicken coops,
wherever they could clear a space, and had the air of being in a club. Our party knew them,
almost all, and they exchanged "how do you do's." Mr. Brett seemed the only stranger; but as
he told me, he hasn't often visited his cousins.

From the open doors and windows of the Emporium streamed out the strangely mingled smells of
all the things in the world which happened to be missing on the verandah, and most of those
that were there. As a fragrance it was indescribable, but it was nice, and rather exciting,
I don't know why, unless there was a quantity of spice in it.

Just as we threaded our way through the groups of young men, who looked at us a good deal,
people were lighting the gas in the Emporium. It was incandescent, and blazed up suddenly with
a fierce light as if it were a volcano having an eruption. All the women inside (there was
quite a crowd of them, bareheaded, or in perfectly fascinating frilled sunbonnets), shrieked
and then giggled. A man who was surrounded by girls said something we couldn't hear, which
made everybody laugh; and Mr. Trowbridge exclaimed:

"That's Whit, sure, holding court. Couldn't be anybody else."

"And I guess that's the Honourable," said the voice we had heard--such a nice voice; it was
enough to make you laugh with pleasure just to hear it--and the head we could see towering
over the sunbonnets began to move towards us. The girls edged away good-naturedly, and there
was a man almost as fine-looking as Mr. Brett, smiling at us, and holding out his big hand.

Everything was big about him; his voice, his brown throat, his shoulders, and his good white
smile, shining with kindness and two rows of perfect teeth; his nature, too, as you could see
by his beaming, humorous grey eyes, and the generous dimple in his square chin.

"Whit, this is the little English ladyship I've told you about, who's staying over at our house,"
said Mr. Trowbridge. So we were introduced, and the great Whit shook my hand with a vigorous
magnetism which made me feel I would like to clap, and give him three cheers.

He is the sort of man I should try to make President of the United States, if I were an American;
and I'm sure he would get lots of votes from his part of the country if he were nominated.

"I'm real pleased to meet you," said he, "and I'm honoured to have you visit my store. Say,
I guess some of our American leading ladies will have to get a hustle on if they want to save
themselves now you're over here. I didn't know they made 'em like that on your side. I tell
you what it is, Honourable, I won't have much use for some of our fellows if they let her go
back, eh? Now, ma'am, you just tell me what handle I'm to put to your name, so I won't make
any fool mistake, and then we can get ahead like a house on fire."

"I'm usually called Lady Betty," I said, feeling an idiot, as everyone was standing round in
a ring.

"What, at the first go? No, ma'am, I couldn't do it. I haven't got the cool, ingrowing nerve.
Couldn't I make it Countess, to show my respect?"

"But I'm not a Countess," I laughed.

"Well, I guess I'll just go one better and raise you to Princess, then. It's the best I can
do, having been reared with plain Misses and Mississes. You look like a Princess, anyhow, and
the Queen might be proud to have you for a cousin. Now we've fixed that up, maybe you'll let
me show you around the premises, and you can tell me if the Emporium bears any resemblance
to your London stores."

"Very well, Prince, I shall be delighted," said I, and he laughed a nice, mellow roar.

It was a great thing, I soon found, for a visitor to be escorted by the proprietor of the Emporium.
Never was such a popular and much-sought-for man as he. He was wanted everywhere by everybody.
People felt aggrieved if they had to go away without at least a hearty "How do you do?" from
Whit. There were several attendants, quite dashing young men, but they were mere ciphers compared
to the "boss."

Accompanied by Mr. Walker and Patty, whom he chose as the companion of our explorations, we
went upstairs and downstairs, and left no corner of the Emporium unvisited.

"Aren't you afraid to leave so many things outside on the verandah?" I asked. "Suppose they
should be stolen?"

The great man only laughed, but a lanky customer who overheard drawled out:

"What, steal from Whit Walker of Hermann's Corners? Wa'al, I guess the skunk mean enough to
do that would get himself lynched by every decent chap in this darned county."

"I've got one friend, you see, Princess," chuckled my king of the Emporium.

"You've got two," said I.

"Well, now, that's mighty pretty of you. Say, do you mean it, honour bright?"

"Honour bright," I repeated.

"Then I wonder if I might ask a little favour of you?"

"Of course. What is it?"

"I'll tell you before we part. But come on down now, girls. I want you should both choose a
present to take home."

We picked our way down the steep stairs, littered with the overflow from shelves and counters.
In the principal "show room," if one could call it that, he pressed us to accept some jewellery--poor
stuff, but the best he had, and he ingenuously admired it. We steadfastly refused, however,
and Patty took a Japanese fan, while I selected several choice specimens of chewing gum, as
being novel and characteristic.

By this time the "ice cream festival" was beginning. It was held in a vacant lot behind the
Emporium, and a canvas awning had been put up over two or three dozen bare tables on the grass.
Several employees of the "store"--extra hands, perhaps--were kept frantically busy ladling
out from huge freezers into earthenware saucers big slabs of frozen custard. All the gallant
young beaux of the neighbourhood "treated" the girls they wished to favour, and spent ten cents
a saucer for the "ice cream," with a big sugared "cooky" thrown in. The great Whit himself
invited me to sit down with him, so Mr. Brett who had been coming up to ask Patty and me both,
perhaps, whisked Patty away, leaving me to Mr. Walker.

"Now, I'll tell you that favour I want," said he. "I hope you won't think I'm presuming too
much on a short acquaintance, but it's a mighty important thing for me. It's about that little
gal over there."

"Patty?" I asked.

He nodded.

"Nobody else. There ain't anybody else, so far as I'm concerned; meaning no disrespect to you,
Princess. My old friend the Honourable says she just worships you, and would lie down and let
you walk over her if you wanted."

"I didn't know," I said.

"Well, it's gospel truth, I guess, and I don't blame her. If you----"

"She has been sweet to me," I interrupted. "Why, what do you think she did, when I mentioned
that the huge bells on Mr. Jacobsen's cows kept me awake nights? You know how that one field
of Mr. Jacobsen's, which he won't sell, comes into Mr. Trowbridge's farm, and he keeps his
cows there to be disagreeable? Well, Patty got up in the night, and climbed on the fence and
caught the cows by offering them salt. Then she held on by their ears, and tied rags over their
bells--horrid, loud bells--so they could make no noise. Only fancy, and some of those cows
are awfully fierce. The rags have stopped on ever since; that was the way I found out, for
she didn't tell for days."

"It's just like that pretty, quiet little thing," said Mr. Walker. "I wish she'd be that sweet
to me. I want her mighty bad to have me, Princess, but she's read novels, I guess, and anyhow,
she doesn't think I'm romantic enough. I was always kind of afraid there was somebody else.
Now I shouldn't wonder if it ain't that good-looking young cousin of the Trowbridges. Couldn't
you find out for me, as she thinks such a lot of you? And if she hasn't got her heart too much
set on anybody else, could you try to use your influence for me? You see, you're a travelled
lady, though you're so young, and if you could say I was a man, in your opinion, it might make
all the difference."

"You can depend on me to do my best," I said. But I didn't feel amused and full of fun any
more, as I looked over at Patty and Mr. Brett. If she admires him--and how could she help it?--there's
no reason why he shouldn't admire her, when one comes to think of it. She is pretty and sweet,
a perfect little lady, and an heiress.

I can't get used to the idea. The cowbells didn't ring at all last night, but I couldn't sleep
for thinking of it, and for telling myself that perhaps this is why Mr. Brett looked queer
when I spoke of Patty marrying a farmer.

XIX

ABOUT GETTING ENGAGED

I felt when I got up this morning that I was in a dreadfully embarrassing and uncomfortable
position about Patty and my promise to Mr. Walker. If I kept it, and tried to use my influence
with her, it might be that I would be working against Mr. Brett. It would be hateful to do
that, as we are such friends; but I was afraid there must be something rather catty in my nature,
(though I never thought so before) because I could not approve of a marriage between him and
Patty. My private opinion was that Patty wasn't at all the sort of girl to make him happy;
but I didn't dare to depend too much on the wisdom of my opinion, lest it should be biassed
by prejudice. It is so hard when you have a friend who has been all yours, to see that some
other girl may be more congenial to him than you are, and that the best thing for him would
be to fall in love with her.

Mr. Brett has known Patty for a long time, and though he hasn't been here often, he has made
flying visits sometimes, I know; and even Patty and Ide both call him "Jim"; never Mr. Brett.
I reminded myself as I thought it all over, that probably one reason why he wanted to stay
with his cousins now was to see Patty again, not in the least because of his friendship with
me, which is quite a recent thing compared to his acquaintance with Patty. I had to admit that
though we have been such friends, all he has done for me could easily be accounted for by that
American chivalry to women, on which the men over here are so keen as a nation, rather than
any particular liking for me as a girl. And I must have a horrid, exacting disposition, because
discovering this made me feel absolutely ill. I was so jealous of Patty, because she could
perhaps take away my best friend and have him for her lover, that all her pretty little ways
and looks quite annoyed me, and I felt I could have slapped her.

Such feelings made me hate myself, for it is so unpleasant finding out suddenly that you are
a brute; yet I would not indulge my wicked heart by telling Patty that she ought to marry Mr.
Walker. I could scarcely eat any breakfast or dinner, and early in the afternoon I crept out
of doors, very miserable. I felt that Vivace was the only being on earth who really cared for
me, and even he was more interested at the time in a rabbit hole he had found than in my society.
He wouldn't come away from it when I called, so I bundled him under my arm, and walked off
with him to the sugar camp, where I could be alone, and think things over, without having people
say I looked pale, and ask whether the ice cream festival at Hermann's Corners had given me
a headache.

Patty and Ide had decided to make maple candy and "chocolate fudge" after dinner, so that we
could have it to eat in the evening, and Mr. Brett and I had promised to help. American girls
always seem to make candy if they have nothing else more interesting to do, and usually I think
it very entertaining. Carolyn Pitchley's often went wrong, and she would keep several servants
busy clearing away plates and spoons, bringing fresh ones, and cleaning out the chafing dish
which she had burnt. But Patty and Ide are cleverer; they do everything for themselves; and
I should have enjoyed helping, if I had been in a different mood. As it was, I would have realised
that I was an outsider, and that maybe they would be gayer without me, though they are always
so polite. I had slipped away without speaking to anyone, and as I was pretty sure that no
one would come to the sugar camp at this time of day, I could let myself be as gloomy as I liked.

I sat there in the deep green shade of the maples, on the log where Mr. Brett and I had talked
the first day I came to the Valley Farm. All the disagreeable things that ever happened to
me since I was a child took this opportunity to stir in their graves and come to life again.
Then they sat down in front of me in a dreary semicircle, staring me in the face until I couldn't
stand it any longer, and began to cry. Vivace was very much surprised, and jumped up with his
paws in my lap, as if he were saying, "What is the matter?" This was a comfort, and I put my
head down on his, with my arms round his neck, and cried more.

If you once let yourself go, like that, you can't stop. Hearing your own little chokes and
gasps makes you pity yourself so much that your heart nearly breaks. I was sobbing out loud,
presently, which made Vivace whine, and I had almost begun to enjoy my utter forlornness and
the distinction of being the most miserable person in the whole world when a distracted voice
exclaimed:

"Why, Lady Betty, Lady Betty, for heaven's sake what's happened?"

I looked up all teary and flushed, and there was Mr. Brett, staring at me with horrified eyes,
and his face as desperate as if he had found me struck by lightning or gored by the black and
white bull.

I was so ashamed and confused that I couldn't speak, but just sat there gazing up helplessly
at him with tears running down my cheeks, and my lips trembling. The most awful look came into
his eyes, and he went as pale as I was red.

"My precious one, my darling!" he stammered, and dropping down on one knee by the big log,
he put his arms round me.

"Oh!" I said. And then my head was nestling down into his neck, and instead of being wretched
I was perfectly happy.

"Who has dared to make you cry?" he asked, holding me close.

"You," I answered.

"I?"

"I thought you were only being kind to me because--because you're an American and it's your
duty to a foreigner."

He laughed at that--an excited, happy laugh, with a queer break in it.

"I've been half out of my mind with love for you, ever since the first day I saw you looking
down at me in the steerage. Am I quite out of it now, or can it be true that you care for me--just
a little, little bit?"

"I care for you, dreadfully," said I. "Why, this isn't friendship, is it? It's being in love."

"I should think it was--with me," he said. "It's all of me, heart, soul and body, drowning
in love."

"Don't drown," I whispered to him. "I--can't spare you."

After that we didn't say a word, but I hadn't supposed it was possible for any human creature
to feel so seraphically happy as I did. I don't know how long a time passed before we even
spoke, but it seemed only a minute--a minute stolen straight out of heaven. And he was so handsome
and dear that I would have kept that minute forever if I could, for it was impossible to believe
that another could be so perfect.

But by and by it did merge into sister minutes, just as good, and we began to talk and tell
each other things.

He told me again how he'd loved me from the very first instant, and I told him that after the
day on the dock, if not before, I'd never quite had him out of my thoughts for a moment.

"There has always been a sort of undertone of you," I went on, "no matter what else I was thinking
of, just as Sally says, when you are near the sea you hear it through every other sound."

He liked having me say that, and his eyes are too glorious when he likes things that I say.

"I loved you so much," he answered, "that I felt my love must have some power over your heart;
it couldn't go for nothing. I knew I wasn't worthy of you, but the love was, for no man in
your own world could offer you a greater one. That's my justification for asking you to put
your hand in mine. But am I asking too much? Are you sure you won't regret anything you may
have to give up?"

"There's nothing I wouldn't give up to be with you always," I assured him. "But I don't see
that I shall have to give up much that I really care for. We shall be poor, of course, but
I shan't mind that a bit--with you. We can live in a sweet little cottage somewhere, can't
we? Or if you have to be in a town, we shall have a wee, wee flat, and it will be such fun
looking after it, just like having a doll's house, only a hundred times better. I've never
been rich, you know; it's always been rather a struggle, and ever so many of my dresses have
been made out of Mother's or Victoria's. I shall learn to cook and sew."

"If I were so poor as all that, darling, I shouldn't be asking you to marry me," said Jim.
"I'm better off than you think, for as I told you, I've been doing fairly well lately, and
I guess if one of us two ever has to cook it will be I. We might have to do that sometimes,
but it will only be if we're camping somewhere."

"I do hope so. It would be glorious!" I exclaimed.

"We can have the cottage or the flat all right, or maybe even both if things go on as well
as they're going now," he said, "and there's nothing on God's earth I won't do to make you
happy. Heavens! I should think so, after what you're doing for me--trusting me, without knowing
any more of me than you've seen in these few weeks----"

"I'd have trusted you to the world's end, after the day you jumped overboard and saved the
little boy. Besides, you were you; and I'd have trusted you just the same if you hadn't."

"Bless you, my angel. But think of the marriages you might have made."

"I couldn't have made more than one, at least I hope not," said I, flippantly. "I could never
have married anyone but you, so I should have had to be an old maid if you hadn't asked me,
and think how awful that would have been. You don't regret asking me, do you?"

"Regret? Well--it doesn't bear talking of. I suppose I ought to be able to say that I'd meant
to keep my love to myself, and it only sprang out on an ungovernable impulse. But it wouldn't
be true if I did. I always meant to ask you, from the very first--though I had little enough
hope, even up to to-day, that it would be anything more than friendship on your part. But oh,
how hard I did mean to try for you. My one virtue was to wait until you had seen enough of
other men--men of a different sort--for you to be sure you didn't prefer one of them. And when
accident had put you very near me, I did manage not to lose my head and speak, while you were,
in a way, under my protection, for that would have been brutal. But Heaven knows--and Miss
Woodburn knows--that I came mighty near it once or twice. I'm thankful I didn't. Now you know
the best and worst of the other sort of man, and the best and worst of me. You see the kind
of people whose blood runs in my veins, and still you are ready to say that my people shall
be your people. I'm not afraid of anything that can happen now."

"You needn't be," I said, slipping my other hand into his--for he had one of them already.
"Mother may be vexed with me for going against her wishes, but she will have to forgive me--or
even if she doesn't, I shall have you."

"I think she will forgive you, darling," said Jim. "I will make her forgive you."

"I believe you could make anybody do anything!" I cried. "Sally will be glad about this, I
know. I can see now that she must always have hoped for it to happen, though I didn't realise
what she meant at the time. But we had such a talk in the Park the day we met you, about marrying
for love. And she advised me that it was the only thing to do. Oh, I am sorry for everybody
who isn't in love, aren't you? And that reminds me, I must try and make dear little Patty in
love with Mr. Walker. You'll help me, won't you?"

The rest of the day was perfectly divine, and it is almost as delightful to live it over again
as I am doing now, in writing the story of it, after we have said good-night.

We forgot all about going back to the house, until some one came out and rang the bell for
tea in the field, where we couldn't help hearing. Then we told the cousins our news, and they
were immensely pleased. They seemed to think that Jim and I were made for each other, and Mrs.
Trowbridge said she had seen that it was coming, all along.

After tea we walked over to call on Sally, and she was just as glad as I thought she would be.

"You are going to marry one of the finest fellows on earth, I believe," said she, "and I congratulate
you as well as him."

I do love Sally!

XX

ABOUT JIM AND THE DUKE

It was a very different waking up the next day. My first thought was: "Can it be really true
or is it only a dream that I'm engaged to Jim?" And I almost cried for joy when I was quite
sure it was true.

We both wrote letters to my mother, and so did Sally. I didn't see theirs, but I could guess
what they said, and I could trust Sally to praise Jim. Still, all the praises in the world
wouldn't reconcile Mother to what I was going to do. I could hear her saying: "Who is he?"
And I was sure she would add, "How much has he got?" But whatever happened, we were not going
to give each other up.

Jim had promised Mr. Trowbridge to pronounce judgment on a horse which he thought of buying,
and the man who wanted to sell the creature brought it to the farm about eleven o'clock. Sally
had come, to tell about the letter she had just posted to Mother, and Jim was in the sitting
room writing his. I think he had forgotten about the horse, until Mr. Trowbridge appeared,
looking rather excited.

"Say, Jim," he exclaimed, "Jake Jacobsen's here with the horse. He's round by the barn now,
and you might as well have a look at it; but it's an awful brute, and I ain't going to take
it, at any price."

"What's the matter with the horse?" asked Jim, sealing up his letter, and looking interested.

"It's mad crazy, that's all; but it's enough for me. I thought there must be something wrong
for Jake to be offering it at the price he did. He led it here, and you just ought to have
seen the brute dance and make ugly eyes when first Albert and then I tried to get astride of
it. Jake swears the only reason he'll sell cheap is because his wife has taken a dislike to
the horse, and what she says, goes with him. He's ready to bet anything the animal's as mild
as a lamb, only a bit frisky, and certainly it's as handsome a beast as I ever laid eyes on.
But he'll have to get rid of it at the fair."

"I'll come," said Jim, getting up.

I jumped up too.

"Oh, please don't have anything to do with such a vicious creature," I begged. "You might be
killed."

Jim laughed. "The horse isn't sired that could kill me, I reckon. I know them too well. Why,
little girl, I was brought up among horses. You can trust me not to run too big risks, now
I've got something to make life worth living."

Stan has often told me that men hate girls to fuss over them, so I bit my lip and didn't tease
any more, but I was far from happy. I didn't like the look in his eyes.

"May Sally and I go and see the horse with you?" I meekly asked.

"I'll ride him up to the house, if I find he's worth your seeing," Jim said. "But you mustn't
worry if we don't come this way for awhile. I may have to work with him a bit before he's ready
to show himself off to ladies."

With that he got his hat and went out with Mr. Trowbridge, who was waiting with a twinkle in
his eyes.

"Oh, dear, I feel as if something horrid was going to happen!" I said to Sally, when they had gone.

"Pooh!" said she. "I should be sorry for the animal who tried to play tricks with that young
man. You'll find you haven't known him, till you see him on a horse."

"I daresay I'm silly," I admitted. "But I have a presentiment of something. Let's go and sit
out on the verandah and watch. We can't see the barn, but if they come out in the farm road
we shall catch sight of them."

"All right," said Sally. "The sun's hot on the verandah; but that's a detail."

Already Jim and Mr. Trowbridge had disappeared, but as we were choosing the coolest place for
our chairs, we saw a dusty, nondescript old vehicle rattling up the maple avenue, and just
about to turn into the narrow road which leads round the side of the house. The hood was up
to protect the passengers from the sun, so at first we could see only the driver, and gather
an indistinct impression that there were two figures in the back seat.

"Visitors," said I. "I didn't know Mrs. Trowbridge was expecting----" Then I broke off with
a little gasp.

"Oh, Sally, it's----"

"The Duke and Katherine!" she gurgled.

All my blood raced up to my head, as if I were going to have a sunstroke.

"No wonder I had a presentiment," I groaned, forgetting my fright about the horse, for a moment.
"Do stand by me."

"I will," said Sally.

Mrs. Trowbridge and the girls were busy in the kitchen, making peach jam; so when the wretched
old chaise drew up close to the verandah, Sally and I were alone to receive it.

If my sense of humour hadn't been trampled upon by various emotions which were all jumping
about at the same time, I should have had hard work not to laugh when Stan and Mrs. Ess Kay
scrambled out from under the lumbering old hood, which was like a great coal scuttle turned
over their heads. Their hair was grey with dust, their faces purple with heat, and evidently
they were both in towering tempers.

Stan looked at me the way he did once when I was small and spoiled his favourite cricket bat
by digging up worms with it;--as if he could have shaken me well and boxed my ears, and would
if I weren't a girl. As for Mrs. Ess Kay, she smiled; but her smile meant worse things than
Stan's frown.

"Hullo, dear boy," I chirped, nervously. "How do you do, Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox?"

Sally murmured something, too, and Stan had the grace to claw off his hat, showing how damp
his poor hair was on his crimson forehead, but he didn't even pretend to smile.

"A nice dance you've led us," said he. "By Jove, I wouldn't have thought it of you, Betty."

"Maybe you don't understand yet," said I. "Wait till I've explained, and I'm sure you won't
be cross, because you always were a dear."

"It's no good wheedling," he grumbled. "I'm not going to wait for anything. We've come to take
you home, and the quicker you pack up and get ready the better."

"What do you mean by home?" I enquired.

"To Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's house in New York, where she says she'll be good enough to put us
up till the next decent ship sails for England."

"I'm not going back to Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's," said I. "She knows why it's impossible."

"Rot," said Stan. "She's jolly kind to have you, after the way you've acted. Anybody'd think
you were eight, instead of eighteen. You deserve to be put on bread and water for making me
come three thousand miles to fetch you home."

"I didn't ask you to come," said I, "and you needn't have bothered. Is Vic engaged yet?"

"Yes, she is; the day before I started. What's that got to do with it?"

"A good deal, according to her," I replied. "I'm engaged, too."

"The dickens you are!" exclaimed Stan, getting redder than ever, while Mrs. Ess Kay gave a
little start and glared at Sally.

My blood was up now, and I didn't care what I said. The sooner Stan knew everything just as
it was, the better.

"Yes, the dickens I am," I echoed, defiantly, "and I don't intend to be treated like a naughty
child, by anyone. I've done nothing wrong, or underhand. We've only been engaged since yesterday,
though we both fell in love at first sight on shipboard, and we've written to mother and you,
this very morning."

"Engaged to a man you met on shipboard!" repeated Stan, looking flabbergasted, and turning
from me to Mrs. Ess Kay.

"Tom Doremus!" she gasped. "Yet no, that's impossible. He's in Newport. But there was no one
else. I was particularly careful."

"I am engaged to marry Mr. James Brett," I said. "He is----"

"There was no such man on the ship," she broke in, sharply.

Then, suddenly, she almost jumped.

"Goodness gracious!" she exclaimed. "Oh, Duke, this is too awful. I remember there was a person
in the steerage. But this is madness. It can't be----"

"He did cross in the steerage," I said. "What of it? He is the best, and handsomest man I ever
saw, and there's no finer gentleman than he; you can ask Sally if there is, for she knows him."

"And thoroughly approves of him," Sally finished, taking my hand. "Duke, I assure you Betty
is to be congratulated. I understand that the Duchess was not averse to her marrying an American,
and the one she has chosen is of the very best type."

"I beg your pardon, Miss Woodburn, but hang the type," said Stan, who never did get on with
Sally. "It's absolutely impossible that my sister should marry such a person, and you ought
to have known better than to encourage her. This is a hundred times worse than I thought when
I flung up the best shoot of the season to come and fetch you, Betty. You and I were always
by way of being pals, but I agree with the Mater now; you've behaved disgracefully, and as
for the man, whoever he is----"

"Here he comes to speak for himself," cut in Sally, squeezing my hand hard.

There was a sound in the distance; voices shouting, but not the voice I loved. We all looked,
and a black horse with a man on his back sprang into sight, like a rocket gone wrong. It was
Jim, looking more beautiful than any picture of a man ever painted, his face transported with
the joy of battle and triumph, and that fiend in horse shape under him doing all he knew to kill.

It was a terrible and yet a splendid thing to see, that struggle. I hadn't known how I adored
Jim, and how I admired him, till I saw him with that smile on his face, sitting the black devil
as if he were one with him in spite of the brute's murderous plunges.

The two shot past the house like a streak of lightning, then wheeled back again, the horse
clearing a ditch and a five-barred fence from one meadow into another; but he didn't jump in
spite of Jim; rather was it in spite of himself. Then there was a series of mad buck jumpings,
leaps into the air, and downward plunges. The beast sat on his haunches, and then reared up
with a great bound, to waltz on his hind legs and paw the air, snorting. But still Jim smiled
and kept his seat without the least apparent effort.

"Jove! that fellow can ride," muttered Stan, taken out of himself by his man's admiration for
a man.

"It's Jim Brett, my Jim Brett," I cried. "What do you think of him now?"

But it didn't occur to Stan to answer. I don't suppose he even heard; he was far too deeply
absorbed in the passing drama; and in a minute more Jim and the black horse were out of sight
again.

But I was not at all afraid for him now. I was only proud, and sure--as sure as I was of life--that
he would conquer.

Nobody spoke. Mr. Trowbridge, and Mr. Jacobsen, the disagreeable cowbell man who owned the
horse, ran by as fast as they could go, too excited to glance at the house, and Albert and
Elisha followed. Mrs. Trowbridge and the girls had come out from the kitchen and were hanging
over the nearest fence. Patty was whimpering a little, so I guessed all in a flash that she
had cared for Jim. (But she is so sweet she will get over it now he is mine; and already I've
made her realise thoroughly what a fine fellow the great Whit is.)

We stood still in our places and watched. I could hear my heart beat, and it had not time to
calm down before Jim came riding back on the black horse--a changed black horse, all winning
airs and graces, to cover shamed penitence now.

The creature pirouetted up the side road, and Jim stopped him at the verandah, patting the
throbbing black neck. "Well? I believe I'll buy him myself," he said smiling to me; and then
he saw Mrs. Ess Kay and my brother.

"By Jove, Harborough!" said Stan. "It is you, isn't it? Surely it isn't your double?"

"Harborough it is," said Jim, while I listened, dumb with wonder. "How are you, Duke? I was
rather expecting you might turn up; but I cabled to you last night to Boodles', and wrote you
this morning on the chance you hadn't started."

"Well, I'm blowed," remarked Stan, most inelegantly. "Are you Brett, or is Brett you, or is
he somebody else?"

"My name is James Brett Harborough; perhaps you didn't know, or had forgotten," said Jim; and
then, jumping off the horse and throwing the lines to Mr. Jacobsen, who had just trotted anxiously
up, he came to me.

"Will you forgive me?" he asked.

"I don't know yet what it's all about," I said, dully.

"Miss Woodburn knows; and Mohunsleigh knew. You see, he and I were old pals, so I told him
I was in love with his cousin, and was going to try hard to win her, in my own way. You remember
Mohunsleigh's friend Harborough. You said the other day you were sorry for him, and--you wished
him joy of his love affair."

"Oh, is that the reason you pretended to be only Jim Brett?"

"I am Jim Brett. But now you understand, will you forgive me?"

"I don't understand yet, except that you must have been afraid I might care more for your money
than for you, if I knew. Oh, how could you think such a thing of me? But about the steerage----"

"That was beforehand. It had nothing to do with you, though everything that was to come, came
from it. I was abroad for a couple of years, and a friend I knocked up against in Paris last
June bet me a thousand dollars that in spite of all my queer experiences, I wouldn't have the
pluck to rough it in the steerage of a big ocean liner. I took the bet, and won it. If it hadn't
been for seeing you, I should have gone West almost at once after landing in New York, but
I had seen you, so I stayed. Luckily for me, I'd met Miss Woodburn often in San Francisco and
once here. She recognised me in my steerage get-up and was the only one who did; but her tact
kept her from spoiling sport. She guessed there must be a game on, and said not a word to anyone.
She wouldn't, even if I hadn't managed to send her a note, which I did. I had a conversation
with her on board, too, the day before getting in, and--we talked about you. Even then I felt
sure you couldn't be the sort of girl to care about money, but----"

"It was partly my fault, Betty," Sally broke in when he paused. "To be quite, quite frank,
I knew that the Duchess had fallen in with some ideas of Katherine's, and I couldn't tell how
far your bringing up mightn't have influenced your nature, so I encouraged Mr. Harborough to
test you by keeping up the story that he was a poor young fellow named Jim Brett. It handicapped
him, and kept him away from you; but you were interested in him to start with, and I did my
best to keep up the romance. I thought he wouldn't lose by it in the end, and he hasn't. There
was the morning in the Park; I managed that; and I got Katherine to send him an invitation
to her big party. He was playing a waiting game, because he wanted you to care in spite of
every drawback, or else he wouldn't want you to care at all; and then, before he was ready
for any coup, Fate stepped in and did the rest."

"In the best way it could have been done, I think," said Jim. "Now, little girl, do you understand,
and have you forgiven me?"

"I'd like to think you could have trusted me from the very first, without playing at all,"
I answered. "Still--it is romantic, isn't it? And besides, even if I were very angry, I--I'm
afraid I'd forgive you anything after seeing you ride that horse."

"I'm hanged if I couldn't, too," said Stan. And laughing, the two shook hands.

"And I suppose I shall have to, as well," purred Mrs. Ess Kay, quite kittenish, "if only somebody
would introduce Mr. Harborough to me."

(As if anyone cared whether she forgave him or not!)

"What about the Duchess?" asked Sally.

"Oh, when I tell her that Betty's engaged to marry a chap I've met and liked in town--a thorough
sportsman, too, it will be all right," said Stan.

I was glad he didn't refer to Jim's money, even though that is the thing which will appeal
most to Mother. As for me, I am almost sorry he isn't poor, if there's room in my heart to
be sorry about anything. But I don't believe there is. It's such a beautiful world, and I shall
have two homes in it now; one on each side the water.