"The Greeks and Italians are next to the Jews. They don't make much off the white man; they
make it off the Negro. They come 'round and open up a place and beg the niggers to come in;
and when they get up a little bit, they shut out the niggers and don't want nothin' but white
folks. It's a good thing they do, too; because if somebody didn't shut the Negro out, he'd
never have anything.

"The slaveholders were hard, but those people who come here from across the water, they bring
our trouble. You can't squeeze as much out of the poor white as you can out of the darkey.
The darkey is spending too much now--when he can get hold of it. Everywhere you see a darkey
with a home, he's got a government mortgage on it. Some day the government will start foreclosing
and then the darkeys won't have anything, and the biggest white man won't have much.

"A hundred years from now, they won't be any such thing as Negroes. There will be just Americans.
The white people are mixed up with Greeks, Germans, and Italians and everything else now. There
are mighty few pure Americans now. There used to be plenty of them right after the War.

"The country can't hold out under this relief system.

"They're sending the young people to school and all like that but they don't seem to me to
have their minds on any industry. They have got to have backing after they get educated. Now,
they'll bring these foreigners in and use them. In the majority of states now the colored man
ain't no good unless he can get some kind of trade education and can go into some little business.

"In slavery times, a poor white man was worse off than a nigger. General Lee said that he was
fighting for the benefit of the South, but not for slavery. He didn't believe in slavery."

Occupation and Present Support of Hopkins

"I came to Arkansas in 1886. I got married in 1885 in South Carolina. I never had but the one
wife. I have done a little railroading, worked in machinery. I have planted one crop. Did that
in 1887 but got sick and had to sell out my crop. For forty-six years, I worked as a plumber
and piper. I worked in piping oil, gas, water, and I worked with mechanics who didn't mind
a colored man learning. They would let me learn and they would send me out to do jobs.

"Nothing hurts me but my age. If I were younger, I could get along all right. But the work
is too heavy for me now.

"I get old age assistance from the state. They pay me eight dollars. I have to pay four dollars
for the use of this shack. So that don't leave much for me to live on. I'm supposed to get
commodities too, and I am waiting for my order now."

FOOTNOTES:

[7] [HW: Jeff Davis captured May 10, 1865, outside Irwinsville, Ga.]

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Nettie Hopson
                      Helena (home--Poplar Grove), Arkansas
  Age: ?

"I don't know how old I is. I am old. I been here so long. I feel my age now right smart. I
want to do things and give out. I know I'm old. I look old. I was born in Alabama.

"Mother was sold to Bud Walls at Holly Grove. Papa bought her and brought us to this state.
My father died seven months before I was born my mother told me. She married ag'in. She was
the mother of ten children. We all lived and do better than we do now. Mother was light. She
worked in the field ever since I come to know 'bout things. Her name was Martha Foster. I don't
know my father's name but Foster. The rest of the family was called Walls. Whether they wanted
to be called that, they was called Walls' niggers 'fore and after freedom both.

"My husband is living. My daughter died first day of March. It sorter addled me."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Molly Horn
                      Holly Grove, Arkansas
  Age: 77

"My ma and pa belong to the same white folks. I was born in North Carolina. Ma and pa had six
children. I don't know how many owners they ever had in North Carolina. Ma and pa was named
Sarah and Jad Nelson.

"When I was a baby Rubin Harriett bought me and mama. His wife was Becky Harriett. Ma was too
old to sell without me. They didn't want to sell me but they couldn't sell her widout me. I
am the baby of our family. Papa didn't get to come to Arkansas. That parted them. After freedom
her other children came. I heard ma say how they kept papa dodged round from the Yankees. The
white folks kept him dodged round. He was a field hand. Ma was a cook and house girl. She never
did work in the field till she come out here. She said white folks didn't whoop him; he wouldn't
take it. I don't know why they thought he wouldn't be whooped.

"I could walk when I first seed the Yankees. I run out to see em good. Then I run back and
told Miss Becky. I said, 'What is they?' She told ma to put all us under the bed to hide us
from the soldiers. One big Yankee stepped inside and says to Miss Becky, 'You own any niggers?'
She say, 'No.' Here I come outen under the bed and ask her fer bread. Then the Yankee lieutenant
cursed her. He made the other four come outen under the bed. They all commenced to cryin' and
I commenced to cry. We never seed nobody lack him fore. We was scared to deaf of him. He talked
so loud and bad. He loaded us in a wagon. Mama too went wid him straight to Helena. He put
us in a camp and kept us. Mama cooked fer the Yankees six or seven months. She heard em--the
white soldiers--whisperin' round bout freedom. She told em, 'You ain't goiner keep me here
no longer.' She took us walkin' back to her old master and ax him for us a home. Then she married
man on the place. He was real old. I had five half brothers and sisters then. I was a good
size girl then.

"They had run him and some more men to Texas. They went in a wagon and walked. They made one
crop there. He said fifteen or sixteen families what belong to different owners went out there.
They heard some people talking--overheard it was free times. They picked up and left there
at night. They dodged round in the woods and traveled at night. When he got back he made terms
to work as a share cropper.

"Master, he didn't give us nuthin'. I didn't hear they would give em anything. Truth of it
was they didn't have much to keep less givin' the niggers something. We all had little to eat
and wear and a plenty wood to burn and a house to shelter us. The work didn't slack up none.
The fences down, the outhouses had to have more boards tack on. No stock cept a scrub or so.
We had no garden seed cept what be borrowed round and raised. Times was hard. We had biscuits
bout once a week, lucky if we got that.

"The Ku Klux got after our papa. They fixin' to kill him. He hid in the gullies. They come
to our house once or twice but I never seed em. Papa come once or twice and took us all and
hid us fore sundown. They quit huntin' him.

"We farmed wid Mr. Hess. Mr. Herrin wouldn't let nobody bother his hands.

"We had good times. I danced. We had candy pullings bout at the houses. We had something every
week. I used to dance in the courthouse at Clarendon--upstairs. Paul Wiley was head music man.
All colored folks--colored fiddlers.

"I was married over fifty years. Bunt Sutton's mother helped bout my weddin' supper. (Bunt
Sutton's mother was a white woman.) She and her family all was there. She had then two boys
and two girls. Mama bought me a pure white veil. I was dressed all in white. We had a colored
preacher to marry us. We married at night, borrowed lamps and had em settin' about. There was
a large crowd. Ann Branch was the regular cake-cooker over the country. She cooked all my cakes.
They had roast pork and goose and all sorter pies. Then I went on to my new home on another
man's place bout one-fourth mile from mama's house. Bunt Sutton's mama was a widow woman.

"My husband voted some but I don't pay no tention to votin'.

"I own a place but it don't do no good. My son is cripple and I can't work. I done passed hard
work now. My husband bought this place before he died. I don't get help from nowhere.

"This is hardest times in my life. Well, education doin' a heap of good. The papers tell you
how to do more things. It makes folks happier if they can read.

"Now I don't be bothered much wid young folks. You heard em say flies don't bother boilin'
pots ain't you? I does nough to keep me going all the time and the young folks shuns work all
they can cept jes' what it takes for em to live on right now. Their new ways ain't no good to me."

  #773
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Cora L. Horton
                      918 W. Ninth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: Between 50 and 60?

"My grandfather on my mother's side was a slave. After my mother had been dead for years, I
went to Georgia where he was. I never had seen him before and I would always want to see him,
because I had heard my mother speak of him being alive and he would write to her sometimes.
I said if I ever got to be grown and my grandfather stayed alive, I was going to Georgia to
see him. So the first opportunity I got I went. That was a long time ago. If I'd waited till
now he'd a been dead. He's been dead now for years. He lived a long time after I visited him.
His name was John Crocker. He lived in Marshallville, Georgia.

"I couldn't tell how he and my mother got separated. I don't know. I don't believe I ever heard
her say. In Georgia when she was quite a girl, I think she said some of her people left Georgia
and went to Covington, Tennessee. Some of the white people that was connected with them in
slavery were named Hollinsheds and my auntie went in that name. That is, her husband did. My
mother's name was Adelaide Crocker. She was never a slave. Her mother was.

"My mother and father had children--twelve of them. I don't know how many children my grandparents
had. I know three uncles--William, Harmon, and Matthew. They were all my grandmother's children
and they were Flewellens. She married a Flewellen. Those were my father's brothers. My auntie's
husband was named Dick Hollinshed. They all come from Georgia.

"It comes to me now. I remember hearing my mother say once that her father was sold. I think
she said that her father was sold from her mother. She didn't seem to know much about it--only
what she heard her father say.

"A man came through the country when I was a girl before my mother died. She died when I was
young. He came to our house and he said he was a relative of my mother's and he went on to
tell what he knew of her folks in slave times. By him telling so much about her folks, she
thought he really was related to her. But after he left, she found out that he was just a fraud.
He was going 'round throughout the country making it by claiming he was related to different
people. I don't know how he found out so much about the different people he stopped with. I
suppose there was a lot of people made it that way.

"I don't know what my grandparents did in slavery time. When I did see my grandfather, he wasn't
able to do anything. He didn't live so long after I seen him. My mother's mother was dead and
he had married another woman. I never did see my grandmother. I do remember seeing one of my
granduncles. But I was so small I don't remember how he looked.

"I used to hear my grandma say that they weren't allowed to have a church service and that
they used to go out way off and sing and pray and they'd have to turn a pot down to keep the
noise from going out. I don't know just how they fixed the pot.

"I had one auntie named Jane Hunter. When she died, she was one hundred and one years old.
She married Rev. K. Hunter over here in North Little Rock. She had been married twice. She
was married to Dick Hollinshed the first time. She's been dead ten years. She was thirty-eight
years old when Emancipation came. She baked the first sacrament bread for the C. M. E. Church
when it was organized in 1870.

"My grandmother lived a hundred years too. That was my father's mother. I knew both of them.
My grandmother lived with us. That is, she lived with us a while when my mother died. She lived
here a while before she died, and then she went back to Georgia because she had a son there
named William Flewellen. He is a presiding elder in the C. M. E. church, in Georgia.

"My father was a railroad man and when my mother did anything at all, she worked in the field.
My father farmed during the time when he was working on the railroad.

"I have heard my grandmother talk about slaves being put on the block and sold and then meeting
way years after and not knowing one another. She told me about a woman who was separated from
her son. One day, years after slavery, when she had married again and had a family, she and
her husband got to talking about old slave times. She told him about how she had been sold
away from her baby son when he was a little thing. She told him how he had a certain scar on
his arm. Her husband had a similar scar and he got to talking about slave times, and they found
out that they were mother and son. He left her and went on his way sad because he didn't want
to stay on living as husband with his mother. I don't think those people were held accountable
for that, do you?"

[HW: Omit]

Interviewer's Comment

Cora Horton is the first president of the Woman's Missionary Society composed of the societies
of the three Arkansas C. M. E. Conferences. She has been president of the Annual Conference
division of the Woman's Home Missionary Society of the Little Rock Conference for about seven
years. She visits all meetings of the General Conference and the General Board of the C. M. E.
church as well as all connectional meetings of the Little Rock Conference, and such meetings
of the Arkansas and Southwest Conferences as relate to the discharge of her duties as president
of the State Woman's Home Missionary Society organization.

She has been president of the N. C. Cleves Club of Bullock Temple C. M. E. Church of Little
Rock for seven years and is a most active church worker as will be seen from this comment.
In her worship she represents the traditional Negro type, but she buys the current issue of
the C. M. E. Church Discipline and is well acquainted with its provisions relating to her specific
church work as well as to all ordinary phases of church work and administration.

There is a lot of drama in her story of the mother who unwittingly married her son.

There is an interesting sidelight on slavery separations in this interview. Never had it occurred
to me that imposters among Negroes might seize upon the idea of missing relatives as the basis
for a confidence scheme.

There is also an interesting sidelight on C. M. E. Church history in the naming of Jane Hunter
as the woman who baked the first sacrament bread at the organization of that Church in 1870.

  Name of interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy
  Person interviewed: Laura House
                      Russellville, Arkansas
  Age: 75?

"No sir, I don't remember hearing my parents ever tell me just when I was born, the year or
the month, but it was sometime during the War. My parents' master was named Mentor--spelled
M-e-n-t-o-r. We come to Pope County several years after the War, and I have lived here in Russellville
forty years and raised our family here. Father passed away about fifteen years ago.

"Mother used to tell me that the master wasn't overly kind to them. I remember she used to
talk of some money being promised to them after they were freed, but I don't know how much.
But I do know that none was ever paid to them.

"No sir, I cannot read or write.

"I have been a member of the A. M. E. Church ever since I was a little girl."

NOTE: Mrs. House is very neat in her dress and general deportment, is industrious, and keeps
busy working here and there at odd jobs, but her memory is very uncertain as to many important
details about her ancestry.

  NOV 30 1936
  Mrs. Mildred Thompson
  Mrs. Carol Graham
  El Dorado District

  Ex-Slave--Hoodoo--Haunted Houses

Aunt Pinkey Howard, an old negress of slavery days, can't "comember" her age but she must be
about 85 or 86 years old as she was about fourteen or fifteen when the war closed. In speaking
of those days Aunt Pinkie said:

"Oooh, chile, you ought to been there when Mr. Linktum come down to free us. Policemen aint
in it. You ought ter seen them big black bucks. Their suits was so fine trimmed with them eagle
buttons and they wuz gold too. And their shoes shined so they hurt your eyes. I tell yo ah
cant comember my age but it's been a long time ago.

"My ole Marsa Holbrook lived at Hillsboro and he wuz a good marsta. I never went hungry or
wid out cloes in them days. Slavery days was good old days. These days is hard days. Po' ole
neeger caint git enough to feed herself. Them days weuns made our cloth and growed our food
and never paid for it. Never did want for nothin' and Marster had heaps of slaves. Use to bring
them across Moro Bay and them neegers always fighting and running off. They'd run off and go
across Moro Bay trying to get back home. Marsta neva went after em. Said: 'Let 'em go. Aint
no count no ways.'

"I wooden take $100 for living in slavery days and I member when they all parted out. Mr. Linktum
come down. Yasum, Mr. Abe Linktum and his partner Horace Greeley, comed down. Lieutenants and
'Sarges' all comed. And some big yaller buck niggers all dressed up fine. I served Mr. Linktum
myself wid my own hands. Yasum I did. I fetched cold water from the spring on a waiter and
I stood straight an held it out just like dis in front of me. Yasum and his partner, Mr. Horace
Greeley too. And them big yaller buck niggers went in the kitchen where my mammy was cookin
and tole her: 'Git out er here nigger. You don have to wait on dese white fokes no more.' Yasum
dey did. And they done said: 'You aint got no more marster and no more missus. Yo don' have
to work here no more.' But my mother said: 'I'se puttin old marster's victuals on to cook.
Wait till I gets em on.' An they tole her again that she didn't have no more marster and no
more missus. I tole my mammy to kick him down the step but she said she was afeard he would
shoot her. All I hates about them 'Sarges' and Lieutenants is they never did shave. Them days
all wore whiskers. I 'comember' when I was a little chap standin on the block with my mammy
and being sold. But Ah always had a good marster.

"Ah members standin on nuther block to cook. Tables wuz high to keep nothin from draggin things
off. Grandma Aiken learnt me to cook an I stood on a block and made out biscuits with a spoon.
Ah neber put my scratchers in the dough in my life. And I could cook good too. Wuz knowed as
the drummers cook. Drummers would come through fum New Orleens and et at ole marsters and bragged
on my cookin and tried to git me ter go wif them to New Orleans and cook fuh they wives.

"Mah fust name was Pinkie Dixon. I was married on ole mistesses front gallery and mah name
wuz Cook then. Next time ah married mah name wuz Howard.

"Ah can count but not to member hit. Ah don' know the number of my chilluns but ah kin name
em. There's Alec, Henry, Winnie, Ellen, Mary, Gola, Seebucky, Crawford, Sarah and Ruby. Seebucky
wuz named fer Sears and Roebuck. Cause at that time weuns ordered things fum them and ordered
Seebuckys clo'es fore she cum fum thar. That why we named 'er that.

"Ah deednt git no book larnin. Ah larnt enough to keep out of devilment and ah knowed how to
cook. Now these fools aroun here don' know nothin. They never did see Linktum or Horace Greeley.
Ah wishes it wuz work time agin but ah caint hold out now."

"Ah never gits hot nor cold lak yo does. Ah takes mah cold bath ever mornin and ah feels good."

Thus old aunt Pinkey rambled on and on talking of this and that and especially the good days--slavery
days. She evidently thought that some of the army officers were Lincoln and Greeley. She probably
heard her master or mistress talk about these men and got them confused with the army officers
who visited in the home.

Old Marion Johnson was seven years old when the war closed. Is 79 now. "Chillun let me tell
you ah don want to go over what I done been over. Not agin. In slavery days we had plenty to
eat and plenty to wear but since then Oh, Lordy. My old Mawster's name was Alex Anderson and
he lived in Jackson Parrish, Louisiana. Yuh say youh wants me to tell you some tales about
ole times, ghostes and the like. Well ah sure can if ah gits started but somehow I jest don'
seem wound up this mawnin.

"One time there was a man what had a house full of daughters and his girl Janie wanted to git
married. Her lover asked her father's permission to wed. He said: 'Well Mr. have you got any
objection to me and your daughter Janie maryin'?' The old man didn't want the young one to
see how anxious he was to get rid of his daughter so he said: 'You wantin to marry my daughter,
Janie? Janie don't want ter git married.' The girl was behind the door listening and when her
father said that she spoke up and said: 'Yes I do pappa, bad.' The young man said: 'See there
now we both wants to git married.' The ole man spoke then and said: 'Well, damn you, dash you
take her.'

"You know what the clocks says? The big old mantle clocks we used to have ticked along real
slow and they said: 'Take your time. Take your time. Take your time.' The little alarm clocks
of today say: 'Get together. Get together. Get together.' And that is jes like the young folks.
When I was young the young folks them days young folks took their time and went together a
long time and they married they stayed married. The young folks today rush around and get married
in a week and fust thing you knows they is done duvoced and married agin. They is jest as diffunt
as the clocks is diffunt.

"You knows if you makes up yo mind to do somethin and asks the Lord to help you he will. I
was comin along that path in June 12 years ago. I chewed Brown Mule tobacco and wanted a chaw.
I had been plowing all day and when I pulled the tobacco outen my pocket it was wet where I
had sweated on hit and the outer leaves wuz all curled up so I said 'Lord help me' and throwed
it out in the weeds and havn't taken a chew since.

"Youns notice how the younguns cuss this day. The womens too. In the olden days the women didn't
cuss out loud but they did 'wooden cussin.' Now I bet you girls is done wooden cussin lots
o times. Loose your temper and want to say things and don't dare so you slams chairs around
on the floor when you is movin them to sweep. That is wooden cussin.

"You says you is interested in buried treasure? Well near Strong where the CCC Camp is was
a place of buried treasure. Madam Hartline and three other white folks and myself went down
there in a car. With a finding rod (divining rod) we located the treasure. Then I took this
here proving rod you sees here and drove it down in the groun till hit struck somethin hard.
A voice from somewhere said: 'What you all doing here? What you after?' Ever body lit a shuck
to the car and nobody ever did go back to see about the treasure. You says why did I run? Dese
feets wuz made to take care of this body and I used em is all.

"When ah was a young man and livin down in Louisiana below Farmerville ah went with a bunch
of white fellows to dig fer buried gold. They didn't begin diggin until after dark. Six men
were on guard. We dug by a light made by a big pine torch. Dug and dug and dug. Finally we
struck hit. Got hit all uncovered and sure nuff there hit was. Jest then the torch blew out
and we heard the quarest noises and ever' body run to camp. Hit jest poured down rain that
night and the next mornin, we went back to get the money and hit was gone.

"And you says you is interested in spooks and ghosties. Down in Louisiana Dr. Fred Hodge (white)
had me to hitch up his buggy and go with him on my horse to make a call many miles away from
home one night. Hit must have ben bout nineteen miles. I was ter go on some other place with
him but the patient was so bad that he had ter stay and sent me on in the buggy an kept my
horse to ride back. I was glad to git the buggy sos I could take my gal for a ride. The doctor
stayed till bout four o'clock in the mornin. He had to go home by a graveyard. There was a
big white oak tree growin by the side of the road and when the doctor passed there every limb
fell off the tree and left the naked tree standin there. The doctor rode back to the house
where he had been and he rode so fast that the horse was winded when he got there. The man
went on back with him and there stood the tree just as hit was before ever a limb fell ofn it.

"Nother man I knew went to town on horseback and bought a bolt of domestic for his wife and
tied it on the back of his saddle. He had to pass a cemetery. Jest as he passed he noticed
a flapping sound and looked back to see sumpin white wavin behind. He whipped his horse and
made him run and the faster he ran the more the flapping sounded and it got longer and longer
behind him. At last he got home and found that the domestic had got unwrapped and was flappin
in the wind. The man was plumb weak and the horse died he had run him so hard.

"An talk of hainted houses. This here one that ahm livin in is hainted. Frank Thompson a yaller
nigger died here before me and mah wife moved here. Before mah wife died, weuns would hear
things and mah wife said hit was Frank Thompson come back. We would be in bed and would hear
fokes walkin aroun and the door would come unlatched and come open. Mah wife would say that
hit wes Frank Thompson's sperit come back and as soon as he got through ramblin aroun she would
git up and bolt the door agin. One Satiday night me and her went to town. On our way back as
we wuz comin acrost that little ditch out thar she said to me step aside Marion and let Frank
Thompson pass. Don' you see him comin? And we stepped aside an she said he passed and we come
on home. Ah hears him now at times walkin aroun and goin in and out the doors but ah aint never
done seen him like she has.

"Now ah'll tell you about a curious happenin'. One time down in Louisiana a brown skin girl
died. When they started to the graveyard with her the sun was shinin as purty as hit is right
now they lowered the coffin in the grave and it 'come-inced' to rain hard and ever'body run
in the church and stayed till it quit raining. The rain stood in holes and puddles and ever'body
expected the grave to be full but when we went out there was not a bit of water in the grave.
How come if it wasn't hoodooed?

"Ah jes aint wound up right this mawnin to tell youns what you wants to know but if you all
will come back ahm sure ah can member some more ah knows."

And Uncle Marion kept working with the chair in which he was weaving a new bottom of white-oak
splits. Before we left he showed us baskets that he had woven.

Old Della Benton can neither read nor write and doesn't know her age she must be near seventy.
Della was my washwoman several years ago and I remembered hearing her tell something about
hoodoes so we went to see Della to get all we could about it.

"Honey don' you know that if you make a hole in a tree and put a hair from the head of the
person you want to hoodoo in the tree and seal it up in there the person will go crazy. Yas
mam and ifn you puts pins and needles in with the hair before you seals the hole they will
die. Why my neighbor Angelina Thompson was hoodood by a woman and Ah'll jest take you all ovah
and let her tell you for herself.

"And ifn you all wants to drive somebody away fum home sos they'll nevah come back take one
of their hairs and put hit in a steam of runnin water so hit'll run off and they will leave
home and nevah come back.

"An somebody can git your track and run you slam crazy. Yasum they kin too. Where you steps
in the clay or mud they gits hit and takes hit up with sumpin and does things to you and you
goes crazy.

"Now you chillun come with me ovah to Sister Thompson's and she kin tell you fer herself what
was done done to her when she wuz hoodooed."

We went to a nearby house and Della called Angelina out. She told us that she was truly hoodoed
and what she said was as follows:

"Sister Thompson tell these ladies about bein hoodooed. Oh they is alright. This is some of
my white folks I used to work fuh long time ago."

Then Angelina told the following:

"Yasum, I sholey wuz hoodooed. How hit come about I loaned my clothes to a woman. A dress and
shoes. She put something on them that looked like snuff. It was brown lookin and I jes though
she had spilled snuff on em. That wuz 18 years ago and she done hit outa jealousy. She wanted
my ole man and she thought she would hoodoo me and ahd die and she'd get him. And she woulda
too ifn hit hadn a been for Mother Dye. You all know she's a doodoo doctor who lived at Newport.
An I went to her fer bout two years and she cured me. Mother Dye is daid now but Jess Rogers,
a man thar does the docterin now.

"You all ask how hit fected me when ah was hoodooed. I tole you bout the brown stuff bein in
my shoes and on mah dress. Well ah put em on and in a little while mah feet itched lak an could
claw the bones out. Ah nevah was in such misery. Then ah tuk somethin like the dry rot. The
meat come off my fingers and toes. Jest look at them scars. And look at these scars in mah
hair. See how mah haid is all scarred up. At times ah had a mind that ah wanted to go and didn'
know where. They had to watch me all the time. But ole Mother Dye cured me and that woman didn'
git mah ole man aftah all."

Della and Angelina talked among themselves for a moment and Della said "Ah believe ah will."
Then she said: "Does you all know Phil Green? He lives about two miles and a half down the
Junction City Highway and he is a hoodoo man. He can tell you all things efn you all cares
to go ahll go with you. He can tell you what is gwianter happen and what has happened and he
can hoodoo." Of course we were in for going right then while we had a car so Della crawled
in the back seat and we were away to Phil Green's. Went out the highway about two miles and
turned off on a country road. Up hill and down, around this field and that and through a big
gate, winding around through a field and orchard. At last we arrived. Phil Green looked to
be a prosperous farmer. We drove up to the back of the house and around front. Some negro had
just killed a chicken for dinner. Several cars were parked in the yard. One bore a Louisiana
license. The porch was full of negroes. Della called and asked if Phil was there. They replied
that he was but that he was busy. Della said, "We wants to see him" and a black negro woman
came out to the car. My, but she was furious. We had never seen a negro so angry before. The
first thing she did was to tell us that they didn't serve white people but the way she expressed
it was a scream she said: "We don' use white people. No suh! We don' use em. Hits too dangerous.
Ah don't care who tole you Phil used white people. He don'. He is may husban and ah won't let him."

We soon pacified her by telling her that we appreciated her point of view and that it was perfectly
alright with us. Della crawled out of the car right now and said: "You all knows the way back
to town don' you? Ah's going ter stay."

The next morning we went back to Della's. She told us that the people on Phil's front porch
were from Marion Louisiana and they had come to get him to tell them how to get one of the
men of the family out of the penitentiary. She apologized for taking us out there and declared
that she believed that he once served white people.

Aunt Dilcie Raborn and all her family declared that she would be a hundred this August. She
is an ex-slave and Mr. John Wright of Louisiana was her master.

"Yas'm chillun I'se a hunnerd years ole. Ah was one of the las' young niggers on marster's
plantation. Mah job was nusin the chillun. Ole Marster's father was livin in them days and
he fought in the Resolution War. Yasum he did. He was rail old and my mother chawed fer him
jes like she did fer her baby. I'se seen more hardness since I got old than ah ever did in
mah life. Slavery wuz the easiest time of all. Mah muthas name was Charity and she wuz the
family cook, yasum an ah wuz the nuss girl. I tuk care of the chilluns. Ole marster's wife
lost her mind and they had to watch her all the time. Did you ask they send her to the sylum?
No man Thar warn't no sylums in them days and anyway ole marster had plenty of niggers to wait
on her and take care of her and watch her sos she wouldn't git out and git hurt. She did slip
out one time and ah was totin the flour from mill from the gate to the kitchen and she grabbed
hit away fum me and throwed hit all ovah me and rubbed hit in mah face good and then laughed
at me. Then she run and got in the creek and set down in the watah and the niggas had to git
in thar and git her out. Hit made her sick and old marster sho did git them niggers fer lettin
her git out.

"I sho wish all times could be slavery times. Ah had everything nice then.

"I had some chillun. Ah cant count em but ah can name em. Joe, Habe, Abram, Billy, Johnny,
Charity and Caline. Ah makes mah home here with Charity, she is mah baby chile and she is fifty.

"You asks is ah afeard of haints? Ah'v never taken no frightment off'n em. Ah'v lived in houses
other folks couldn't live in but ah'v never lived that way that I had to run from haints.

"Ah lived jes like a millionaire when ah lived in slavery times, seed more hardness since I
got old than I ever did in mah life."

Then we left aunt Dilcie with her snuff and went to find Aunt Jane Carter.

After rambling around in Rock Island quarters we at last found Jane Carter. She was living
with her grand daughter and was sitting out in the yard with a bunch of her great-grand-children.
She was so deaf that we were not able to talk to her, much to our disappointment. The granddaughter
told us that she was 106 years old and that Mrs. Roscoe Taunton's granfather was Jane's old master.

We later saw Mrs. Taunton and she told us that Jane had belonged to her grandfather Stephen
Manning and was her mother's nurse. Jane was grown when Mrs. Taunton's mother was born.

We were told about old Bill who lives in Barton Quarters and went to find her. She was sitting
out on the porch of her cabin and we sat on the edge of the porch much to the dismay of Bill
who could not walk because of a sore foot which she told us was caused by the bite of a rattlesnake
years ago in slavery time.

"Ah don' want mah white folks to sit on the floo'. Honey go in dah and git dat sheet and spred
hit on the floo'. Ole Bill would go herself efn she could walk. Honey you all is gwianter git
blistered out in de sun like you is widout no hats on. Don you all know you had orter take
keer of thet purty white skin of yourn? My ole missus never would git out in the sun widout
somethin on her haid. Ole Mawster thought she was purty and she aimed to stay purty.

"You all says you wants ter heah ole Bill tell about slavery days, lawsy chillun Ah pray ter
God ah'll be with mah white chillun agin and play mah harp with em. We'll have plenty to eat
and plenty to wear jes as we did when we had our good mawster in slavery days. Marster's grown
son used to say: 'Bill she's ruint to death.' Why I used ter git my young mistesses dresses
and put em on and git out in the yard and flounce and flip. The young mistess would scole me
but young marster would say 'Leave Bill erlone, ah lack to see her dance. Dance some moah Bill.'
Mah white folks use ter teach me. Now when white folks taugh me ahm a nigger done taughted.

"Honey ah jes don' like ter see mah white folks sit on the floo' ah wishes ole Bill cud foch
some cheers fer yo all ter set on.

"How ole is ah? Ah jes don' member but ah's powerful ole.

"Yas'm ah' wuz nurse girl for marsters chillun. I nevah had ter wuk hard a tall, all ah had
ter do was play wid the chillun and take keer of em. Oncet a circus show comed thru and mawster
bought a rattle snake fum em fer a pet. Hit nevah did have hits teeth pulled (fangs). Hit wuz
a plum pet too, allus followin us about. We would have to knock hit back outn de way sometimes.
One time ah wuz comin down de stairs wid a chile in each arm and de snake wuz crawlin erlong
sides me. Jest as we got ter the bottom hit crawled roun front of me and ah didn see hit cause
of havin the chillun in mah arms and ah stepped slambang on that snake an hit turnt aroun and
bit mah foot. Ah nevah drapped them chillun though. My ole man said ifn hit had been him he'd
a throwd them chillun down and run but not ole Bill. Marster and Mistess trusted Bill to take
keer of them chillun and ole Bill sho did take keer of em. But mah foot nigh bout kilt me and
thet foot is whut is the mattah wid me terday.

"You ask haint ah got no folks? No'm. Ah nevah had but one youngun and hit died wid the croup.
The man next doo' owns this heah house and lets ole Bill live heah. The guvment lady send me
a check ever' month (pension) and Joe Lyons gits hit and fetches hit out ter me.

"You ask does ah know erbout any hainted houses? No'm when ah fin's a house is hainted ah aint
gwian in. No'm not ole Bill. But sumpin happened not long ergo that give me a big fright. Hit
waz long bout dusk ah seed two women, white as anybody gwian down de road and when they got
along thar they quit the road and come aroun the path. Ah said: 'Howdy' and they never even
speak jus kep' a goin'. Ah say: 'Whar is you all a goin' and they nevah say a word. Then ah
say to em: 'Won't you all come by and set with ole Bill a while.' An still they nevah say nothin.
Jus kep' on a goin' roun' that house and down the road. Then ah got skeered and went in the
house an ah doan set out late no moah. Efn them ghost had uh come in th house ah would a gone
undah the house.

"You all chillun ain goin is you? Come back ter see ole Bill. Ah sholey hates to have mah white
folks sit on the floor but mebby ole Bill's foot will be bettuh next time an she can git her
white fokes some cheers."

Aunt Sally Fields said to be 106 years old lived in Mack Quarters about two and a half or three
miles south of El Dorado. She is blind and lives with Hattie Moseley. During slavery days she
belonged to the Patterson family and came with them from Alabama to Louisiana and later to
Caledonia where she was living at the close of the Civil War. Her mind was wandering to such
an extent that we could not get very much from her and when asked about slavery times she said:

"Slavery time is gone. The stars are passed. The white folks that raised me said: 'I want you
all to get up in the morning and tell me about the stars.' Oh Lordy! The stars fell. Ole Missus
would come say: 'Ah want to be standing up behind the door. Ah don' want to be buried.' My
ole missus was good to all the niggers.

"There was a big spring on marsters plantation. When we would start to the spring mistress
would say: 'Don't go on the left hand side of the spring, go up the right hand side to the
chinquapin tree.'"

It took Sally about twenty minutes to say that much so we didn't stay longer.

  Interviewer: Carol Graham
  Person Interviewed: Pinkie Howard (Add)
                      El Dorado, Ark.
  Age: ?

"Mornin', honey! Here you is to see Aunt Pinkie again. What did you bring me? Didn't you bring
old Aunt Pinkie somethin' good to eat?

"Lawsy, honey, its been so long I can't member much bout plantation days. But I members the
children on the plantation would ring up and play ring games. And we used to have the best
things to eat back in them days. We used to take taters and grate them and make tater pudding.
Made it in ovens. Made corn bread and light bread in ovens too and I used to bake the best
biscuits anybody ever et and I didn't put my scratchers in them neither. Old Miss taught me
how. And we had lasses pone corn bread and them good old tater biscuits. We used to eat parched
corn, and cornmeal dumplings was all the go back there.

"I worked all my life and hard, too, but I still is a pretty good old frame.

"He! He! He! Look at that black boy passing, will you? Them brichie legs is half way his thighs.
He needs to put sugar in his shoes to sweet talk his brichie legs down. And did you notice
he didn't speak to old Aunt Pinkie. Young folks ain't got no manners these days. Now when I
was young back there on that plantation at Hillsboro old Miss Aiken taught all her niggers
manners. She would say to us, 'Now, you all don' clean your noses, or years, or fingernails
before folks; it's ill manners. And don' make no 'marks bout folks. Don' eat onions and go
out in company, if you does, eat coffee to kill the taste. Don't talk with yo' mouth full of
sumpin' to eat; that ill manners too. Don' eat too fast cause you is liable to git strangled.
And don' wear yo' welcome out by staying too long.'

"Ain't it warm and nice today missy? Jus like a spring day. An see that bee after my flower?
Wasn't it a bee? You know, bees used to swarm in the springtime back on the plantation. The
way they would catch em was to ring a bell or beat on a old plow and keep beatin' and ringin'
till they settled on a tree limb. Then they made a bee gum and covered it and left a hole at
the bottom of the gum for them to go in and out, then they sawed the limb off and put the bees
in the gum and put some sweetened water made from molasses so they can start to makin' honey.
Sometimes the bees would sting some of us and we would put a little snuff on it and cure it
right up."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Josephine Howell
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 72

"My mother was Rebecca Jones. She was born in Nashville, Tennessee. Grandma was a cook and
a breeding woman. The Jones thought she was very valuable. They prized her high. She was the
mother of twenty-one children. Mother was more than half Indian. She was bright color. The
Jones wanted to keep her, thought she would be a fine cook and house woman and a fine breeder.
She had such a terrible temper they sold her to McAlways, some of their relations close to
Augusta, Arkansas.

"Mama said she was eight years old when Gabe McAlway come to Nashville, Tennessee and got her.
He bought her. He was a young man and a saloon-keeper at Augusta, Arkansas. He put her out
on the farm at his father's. She was a field hand. She was part African and a whole lot Indian.
She was fractious and high tempered. The old man McAlway and the overseers would drop her clothes
down in the field before all the hands and whoop her. Gabe never even slapped her. His aunt
Mrs. Jones didn't want them to put her in the field. She wanted to keep her but couldn't she
was so fractious, and she didn't know how bad old man treated her.

"When mother was sold she was brought from twenty brothers and her mother and never saw none
of them no more. She left them at Wolf River. They took the boat. Wolf River is close to Memphis.
They must have brought them that far but I don't know. This is what all she told me minua and
minua time. Her own papa bought her when she was eight years old, Gabe McAlway. When she got
to be a young maid he forced motherhood up on her. I was born before freedom. How old I am
I don't know. Gabe McAlway was sort of a young bachelor. He got killed in the Civil War. He
was a Scotch-Irishman. I never seen my father.

"Mother married then and had five children. She lived in the back yard of Mrs. Will Thompson.
Dr. Goodridge stopped her from having children, she raved wild. She had such a bad fractious
temper. She suckled both Mrs. Will Thompson's children, old man Nathan McGreggor's grandchildren.
She lived in Mrs. Thompson's back yard but she slept in their house to help with the babies.

"Judge Milwee's wife and auntie, Mrs. Baxter, raised me from a baby (infant). Judge Milwee
was in Brinkley but he moved to Little Rock. Them is my own dear white folks. Honey, I can't
help but love them, they part of me. They raised me. They learned me how to do everything.

"My son live with me and I raising my little great-grandson. We can't throw him away. My baby's
mother is way off in St. Louis. He is three years old.

"Mother never talked much about slavery other than I have told you. She said during of the
War women split and sawed rails and laid fences all winter like men. Food got scarce. They
sent milk to the soldiers. Meat was scarce. After she was free she went on like she had been
living at John McAlway's. She said she didn't know how to start doing for herself.

"Some of our young generation is all right and some of them is too thoughtless. Times is too
fast. Folks is shortening their days by fast living. Hurting their own bodies. Forty years
ago folks lived like we ought to be living now."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Pauline Howell Nickname Pearl
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 65 or 70?

"I was born in Paris, Tennessee and come to Arkansas when I was a child. I don't know how old
I am but my mama knowed 'bout when I was born. It warnt long after the war. I past sixty-five
and it is nearer seventy from what she said. She ain't been dead long. She was about a hundred
years old. I. C. switch killed her. She was going cross there to Fisher Body and the switch
engine struck her head. She dropped something and stooped to pick it up or the engine wouldn't
touched her. She lived in Memphis.

"She was born at Oaks, Tennessee. She took me down to see the cabin locks where she was born.
They had rotted down and somebody lived in the big house. It had gone to rack then pretty bad.
My father's master was George Harris. He was Governor of Tennessee. My mother's mistress at
Oaks was Miss Ann LaGuion (or maybe Gwion). I never heard her husband's name. They had several
farms and on each farm was the cabin locks (little houses all in a row or two rows). The houses
was exactly alike. Grandma cooked for the white folks and mama nursed. The baby was a big fat
heavy sort, a boy, and it was so heavy she couldn't hardly pick it up. She had to carry it
around all day long. When night come she was wore out. There was several of them. When she
go to their houses in Memphis they honor her. They take her down town and buy her shoes and
dresses. Buy her whatever she say she want. They say they was proud of her. She was a little
black guinea woman (low and stocky). Not long go Mr. (white man) in Brinkley asked me when
my ma coming back here. Said he ain't seed her for so long. I tole him she was dead. He said
he have to go tell Mrs.  (his wife). She come out here and stay and piece quilts. She sewed
so nice. Made pretty little stitches. She'd take the most time and pains fixing the pieces
together to look pretty. She'd set there and sew and me over there and tell me bout how she
was raised and I'd cry. Cry cause she had so hard a time when she was a girl.

"The old master sent my father to Liverpool, England to bury his money. He was his own son
anyhow. Sent him with his money to keep the Yankees from taking it. My aunt, my father and
Uncle Jesse all his own children. Course old mistress love them little children like her own.
She couldn't help herself.

"Mariah Steed went in Governor Harrises name after freedom. So did Randall Travis Harris.

"My mama said she was never sold but her sister and her children were. She was put upon the
auction stile and all her little children. A man in Mobile, Alabama bought her. They never
did see nor hear tell of her no more. The reason they sold her was she killed two men overseers.
They couldn't manage her. The last one was whipping her with a black snake whip and she grabbed
him. Grabbed his privates and pulled 'em out by the roots. That the way she killed both the
overseers. Cause she knowed that was show death. My mama said that was the nicest little soft
man--the last man she killed. She said he just clum the walls in so much misery that night.

"She said they would whisper after they go to bed. They used pine torches for lights. They
had to cover up the fire--cover up fire in the ashes so it be coals to kindle a fire in the
morning--put out the light pretty early. Old master come stand round outside see if they all
gone to bed.

"When freedom--my mama said old master called all of 'em to his house and he said: 'You all
free, we ain't got nothing to do wid you no more. Go on away. We don't whoop you no more, go
on your way.' My mama said they go on off then they come back and stand around jess lookin'
at him an' old mistress. They give 'em something to eat and he say: 'Go on away, you don't
belong to us no more you been freed.'

"They go way and they kept coming back. They didn't have no place to go and nothing to eat.
From what she said they had a terrible time. She said it was bad times. Some took sick and
had no 'tention and died. Seemed like it was four or five years before they got to places they
could live. They all got scattered.

"She said they did expect something from freedom but the only thing old master give Jesse was
a horse and bridle and saddle. It was new. Old master every time they go back say: 'You all
go on away. You been set free. You have to look out for your selves now.'

"The only way I know this is I remembers from hearin' my dear old mama tell me when she come
here to see me. I was too little. I guess I wasn't born till two or three years, maybe longer
than that, after freedom.

"After my son died here I get $2.50 a month, just my house rent. I work out when I can get
something to do. Work is so scarce I hardly get a living.

"If you could see my brother in Little Rock he could tell you a heap he remembers. He is white
headed, keeps his hair cut close and goes dressed up all the time. They say he is a good old
man. He does public work in Little Rock. Henry Travis is his son. His phone is 4-5353. His
street is 3106 Arch. My brother is really born a slave, I ain't. Ask for E. K. Travis, that
is his name. He can tell you bout all you want to know." My mother was sold to Judge Allen
at Bihalia, N. C. and brought to Arkansas. The Cunninghams brought father from Tennessee when
they moved to this State. His mother died when he was three months old and the white mistress
had a baby three weeks older en him so she raised my father. She nursed him with Gus Cunningham.
My father had us call them Grandma, Aunt Indiana, and Aunt Imogene.

"When I was seven or eight years old I went to see them at Roe. When I first come to know how
things was, father had bought a place--home and piece of land west of Clarendon and across
the river. I don't know if the Cunninghams ever give him some land or a mule or cow or not.
He never said. His owner was Moster John Henry Cunningham.

"My father was a medium light man but not as light as I am. My mother was lighter than I am.
I heard her say her mother did the sewing for all on her owner's place in North Carolina. My
mother was a house girl. The reason she was put up to be sold she was hired out and they put
her in the field to work. A dispute rose over her some way so her owner sold her when she was
eighteen years old. Her mother was crying and begging them not to sell her but it didn't do
no good she said. After the war was over she got somebody to write back and ask about her people.
She got word about her sister and aunt and uncle. She never seen none of them after she was
sold. Never did see a one of her people again. She was sold to Judge Allen for a house girl.
His wife was dead. My mother sewed at Judge Allen's and raised two little colored children
he bought somewhere cheap. He had a nephew that lived with him.

"Mr. Felix Allen and some other of his kin folks, one of them made me call him 'Tuscumby Bob.'
I said it funny and they would laugh at me. Judge Allen went to Memphis and come home and took
smallpox and died. I heard my mother say she seen him crying, sitting out under a tree. He
said he recken he would give smallpox to all the colored folks on his place. Some of them took
smallpox.

"We have been good living colored folks, had a right smart. I farmed, cooked, sewed a little
along. I washed. I been living in DeValls Bluff 38 years. I got down and they put me on the
relief. Seems I can't get back to going agin.

"Don't get me started on this young generation. I don't want to start talking about how they
do. Times is right smartly changed somehow. Everybody is in a hurry to do something and it
turns out they don't do nuthin'. Times is all in a stir it seem like to me.

"I don't vote. I get $8 and demodities and I make the rest of my keepin'."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Charlie Huff
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: Born 1864

"I was born close to Charlotte, North Carolina. Alex Huff owned my parents and me. My pa was
a dark man. He was named Alex Huff too. Ma was named Sarah Huff. She was ginger cake color
they called it. Both her parents was part Creek Indian. I seen the block at Richmond, Virginia
where they sold pa. They kept him three weeks away from me before he was sold. They sold him
at the last of slavery for $1,500. Ma never seen him no more. After freedom she brought me
and immigrated to Arkansas. My sister wouldn't come, she was fixing to marry. We come on the
train, paid our own way. We heard it was a fine country and ma heard somebody out here bought
pa. We kept inquiring till after she died. I heard where he was. I went to see him. He told
me what I told you. He was sold and brought to Louisiana. He was a cross-eyed man and named
Alex the best way I found him. My ma never was sold as she remembered.

"Master Alex Huff owned a turpentine factory and pa worked at it. Ma washed and cooked. Master
Alex Huff raised Palmer Christy beans. I think he sold the seed to keep moles out of the land.
Moles was bad in new cleared land. When they found a mole hill they opened it and put in a
few beans so the mole would eat them and die. He sold the beans.

"The Ku Klux never bothered us.

"We come to Arkansas as soon as we could after freedom. We wanted to find pa. When we first
come I worked on a steamboat, then I mined at Pratt City, Tennessee--coal mines--a year and
a half. Then for forty-five years I worked on the railroad section as a hand. I made two crops
in all my life. The first year I did fine and not so bad the next. But since three years ago
I had these two strokes. I am here and not able to work. My wife draws $12 from the Welfare Order.

"It has been a long time since I voted. I voted last time for President McKinley. I didn't
like the strict franchise laws."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Louvenia Huff
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 64

"I was born third year after the surrender. There was thirteen children in my family when I
was a child. We was different sizes and the grown children helped look after the little ones.
My parents was field hands. My parents belong to Dr. Hatch. He lived in Aberdeen, Mississippi.
We lived in the country on his place. He had five or six children. Ben and Needham come out
to the farm. He was an old man and we stayed on the son's place--same place--till I come to
Arkansas. We come in 1885. We heard it was a better country and open stock range. Dr. Hatch
was very good to my folks.

"I don't think the Ku Klux bothered my folks but we was afraid of them.

"My father voted a Republican ticket. I never voted.

"My grandmother was real light skin. Mother was mixed with white. She told us she was sold
away from her mother when she was a little bitter of a girl and never seen her no more till
she was the mother of six children. They didn't know one another when they met. Her mother
knowed who bought her and after freedom she kept asking about her and finally heard where she
was and come to her. There was no selling place at Aberdeen so I don't know where she was bought.
Dr. Hatch lived to be an old man. He owned a lot of slaves and lots of land.

"Father's old master was Whitfield. He sold him to Dr. Hatch when he was a young man. Father
was a driver in the Civil War. He hauled soldiers and dumped them in the river. The Union soldiers
wouldn't give them time to bury the other side. He took rations all but the times he hauled
dead soldiers. He got shot in his arm above the wrist. He died before they give him a pension.
He was a Union soldier. He talked a lot but that is all I can tell straight. I don't know if
he mustered out or not.

"I worked in the field, wash, iron, and cooked. We get $12 from the Welfare. My husband had
two strokes. He has been sick three years.

"My parents' name Simpson Hatch and Jacob Hatch. They had thirteen children."

  Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins
  Person Interviewed: Mrs. Anna Huggins
  Home: Pleasant at John Street.

"Miss Huggins? (pronounced hew--gins) Yes, ma'am she lives here. Oh Miss Huggins, Miss Huggins.
They's somebody to see you."

The interviewer had approached an open door of an "L" kitchen attached to a "shot gun house".
Thru the dining room and a bed room she was conducted to the front bedroom. This was furnished
simply but with a good deal of elaboration. The bed was gay with brightly colored pillows.
Most of them had petal pillow tops made from brilliant crepe paper touched with silver and
guilt. The room was evidently not occupied by Mrs. Huggins herself for late in the interview
a colored girl entered the room. "Do you want your room now?" Mrs. Huggins inquired. "No indeed,
there's lots of time," the girl replied politely. But the interviewer managed to terminate
the interview quickly.

"So you knew Fanny McCarty. Well, well, so you knew Fanny. I don't know when I've heard anybody
speak about her. She's not so much on looks, but Fanny is a good little woman, a mighty good
little woman. She's up in Michigan. You know she worked at one of the big hotels here--the
Eastman it was. When they closed in the summer they sent her up to the big hotel on Mackinac.
For a while she was here in the winter and up there for the summer season. Then she stayed
on up there.

"You say she worked for you when you were a little girl? Before the fire of 1913? Now, I remember,
you were just a little girl and you used to come over to my house sometimes with her. I remember."
(A delighted smile.) "Now I remember.

"No, I don't remember very much about the war. It is mostly what I heard the older ones say.
My grandmother used to tell me a lot about it. I was just a little thing in my mother's arms
when the war was over. Guess I was about four years old. We lived in St. Francis County and
as soon as we were free pappa sent for us. He sent for us to come by boat to where he was.
We went to Helena. I remember they were all lined up--the colored soldiers were. But I knew
pappa. They all wondered how, hadn't seen him in a long time. But I picked him out of all the
line of men and I said, 'There's my pappa.' Yes, my pappa was a soldier in the war. He was
gone from home most of the time. I only saw him once in a while.

"My grandmother told me lots of things about slavery. She was born a free girl. But when she
was just a little girl somebody stole her and brought her to Arkansas and sold her. No, from
the things they told me--especially grandmother--they weren't very good to them. Lots of times
I've gone down on my knees to my grandmother to hear her tell about how mean they were to them.

"I'd say to her, 'Grandmother, why didn't you fight back?' 'You couldn't fight back,' she said,
'you just had to take it.' 'I wouldn't,' I said, 'I wouldn't take it.' Guess there's too much
Indian blood in me. A white person never struck me but once. I was a girl--not so very big
and I was taking care of a white lady's little girl. She and a friend of hers were talking
and I sneaked up to the door and tried to listen to what they were saying. She caught me and
she scolded me--she struck at me with her fan--it was just a light tap, but it made me mad.
I fought her and I ran off home, she came to get me too. I never would have gone back otherways.
She said she never did see a girl better with children.

"I remember my grandmother telling about once when she was cooking in the kitchen, her back
was turned and an old hound dog got in and started to take the chicken which was on the table.
He had even got part of it in his mouth. But she turned and saw him--she choked the dog--and
choked him until she choked the chicken out of him. You can see she must have been pretty scared
to be afraid to let them know the chicken had been tampered with. Then we always thought my
mother's death was caused by her being beat by an overseer--she caused that overseer's death,
she got him while he was beating her. They had to hide her out to save her life--but a long
time afterwards she died--we always laid it to that hard beating.

"We lived in Helena after the war. My father was the marrying kind. He was a wild marrying
man. He had lots of wives. But Mother and grandmother wouldn't let us call them Mother--she
made us call them Aunt. It really was my grandmother who reared me. She was a good cook, had
good jobs all the time.

"When I grew up I married. Mr. Huggins was a bar tender in a saloon. He made good money. We
had a good home and I took care of the home. I had it mighty easy. Then one day he fell in
the floor paralyzed. I brought him to Hot Springs. That was back in 1905. We stayed on and
he lived for 18 years.

"I got a house there and I kept roomers. That was where Fanny stayed with me. It was at 311
Pleasant. You remember the place, tho. When I was young, I had it easy. But now I'm old and
I don't have it so well. A few years ago I was out in California on a visit. There was a man
shining up to me and I wrote my niece 'What would you think if your aunty married?' 'Law,'
she wrote back to me, 'you've lived by yourself so long now, you couldn't stand a man.' Maybe
she was right."

(At this point the girl passed into the room.) "Look Maggie! three pretty handkerchiefs. Miss
Hudgins brought them. And I was just writing to my sister--my half sister today, I didn't even
expect to much as a handkerchief for Christmas. And my initials embroidered on them two. One
with A on it and two with H. I'm really proud of them.

"I'm going to write to Fanny to tell her about your coming to see me. She'll be so glad to
know about you. I'll tell her about the handkerchiefs. You know, for a while Fanny had it pretty
hard while she was here. She stayed at my house and I kept her for a long time without pay.
I knew Fanny was a good girl and that when she got work she would pay me back. Do you know
what Fanny has done? When she heard I was hard up she wrote me and told me to come up to Michigan
to her and she would take care of me just as I had taken care of her. But I didn't want to
go. Wasn't it nice of her, though?

"Yes, when I was young I had it easy. I had my home and took care of it. If I needed more money,
I mortgaged my home and paid it back. Then I'd mortgage it and pay it back. But I mortgaged
it once too often. That time I couldn't pay it back. I lost it.

"Well, I'm so glad you came to see me. I remember the pretty little girl who used to come to
my house with Fanny. Be sure to write to her, she'll appreciate it, and thank you for the handkerchiefs."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Annie L. LaCotts
  Person interviewed: Margret Hulm, Humphrey, Arkansas
  Age: 97

  (Story of Abraham Lincoln as a spy)

In the west edge of Humphrey in a small house beneath huge old trees lives an aged Negro woman
with her boy (61 years old) and his wife. This woman is Margret Hulm who says she was born
March 5, 1840 in Hardeman County, Tennessee. When asked if she remembered anything about the
war and slavery days she said:

"Oh yes mam. I was 24 years old when the slaves were set free. My folks belonged to Master
Jimmie Pruitt, who owned lots of other slaves. When they told him his niggers were free, he
let them go or let them stay on with him and he'd give them a place to live and some of the
crops. I guess that's what folks call a share crop now. I was what folks called a house girl.
I didn't work in the field like some of the other slaves. I waited on my mistress and her chillun,
answered the door, waited on de table and done things like that. I remember Mr. Lincoln. He
came one day to our house (I mean my white folks' house). They told me to answer the door and
when I opened it there stood a big man with a gray blanket around him for a cape. He had a
string tied around his neck to hold it on. A part of it was turned down over the string like
a ghost cape. How was he dressed beneath the blanket? Well, he had on jeans pants and big mud
boots and a big black hat kinda like men wear now. He stayed all night. We treated him nice
like we did everybody when they come to our house. We heard after he was gone that he was Abraham
Lincoln and he was a spy. That was before the war. Oh, yes, I remember lots about the war.
I remember dark days what we called the black days. It would be so dark you couldn't see the
sun even. That was from the smoke from the fighting. You could just hear the big guns going
b-o-o-m, boom, all day. Yes, I do remember seeing the Yankees. I saw 'em running fast one day
past our house going back away from the fighting place. And once they hung our master. They
told him they wanted his money. He said he didn't have but one dollar. They said 'we know better
than that.' Then they took a big rope off of one de Yankee's saddle and took de master down
in de horse lot and hung him to a big tree. The rope must a been old, for it broke. Our master
was a big man though. Then they hung him again. He told 'em he didn't have but one dollar and
they let him down and said 'Well, old man, maybe you haven't got any more money.' So they let
him go when the mistress and her little chillun come down there. He didn't have but one dollar
in his pockets but had lots buried about the place in two or three places."

While Margret was giving this information she was busily sewing together what looked like little
square pads. When examined they proved to be tobacco sacks stuffed with cotton and then sewed
together which would make a quilt already quilted when she got enough of them sewed together
to cover a bed.

  Interviewer: S. S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: John Hunter
                      3200 W. 17th Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 74

Biographical

John Hunter claims to be only seventy-four years old, but when he is talking he has the manner
of an eye-witness to the things he relates. In this connection, many of the ex-slaves seem
to be sensitive concerning oldness.

Hunter is blind. He lives with Mrs. Alston, herself the widow of an old ex-slave. His relation
to her is simply that of a renter, although where he gets the rent from I don't know.

His father fought in the Confederate army until disabled by disease.

Hunter was born in North Carolina but has lived in this state something like fifty years.

Houses

"Slave houses were old log huts. Some made log houses and some made tent harbors. Just any
sort of way on dirt. Some of them didn't have any floors.

"One with a floor was built with one room. Cooked and et and everything in that one room. About
16 × 16. One window. No glass panes in it. Shutter window. Some niggers just built up a log
house and dobbed it with dirt to keep the air from coming through.

"Food was kept in an old chest. There weren't no such things as trunks and cupboards. I brought
one from North Carolina with me--old-fashioned chest. Bed was homemade and nailed to the side
of the wall. Some of them had railings on both sides when they were trying to make it look
nice. Mattress was made out of straw or shucks. You could hear it rattling like a hog getting
in his bed at night. I have slept on 'em many a time. Those with floors and those without were
made alike. A box or anything was used for a table. If his master would give him anything he
would make it out of a plank. Make it at night. Boxes and homemade stools were used for chairs.
No chairs like there is now. People are blessed now. Didn't go asking for no chairs then. They'd
give you a chair--over your head.

"They et anything--any way they could get it,--in pans, old wooden trays, pots, anything. Fed
you just like little pigs. Poured it all out in something and give them an old wooden spoon
and telled them to get down and eat. Sometimes get down on your belly and eat. No dishes for
niggers like now. No dishes till after freedom, and often none then."

Tent Harbors

"Sometimes they'd have a great long place with walls in it with logs and planks and divided
into stalls just like a man would have a great long place for mules and divide it into stalls.
They were called stockades. You can see them in Tensas Parish in Louisiana. Now, each man would
take his family and live in his stall. No doors between the rooms. Each room had a door leading
into the open. They called 'em 'tent harbors' because they were built more like a tent. Some
of them were covered with boards. People would go into the woods and rive out boards with a
fro. A fro is a piece of iron about a foot and a half long with an eye in it and a wooden handle
in the eye. You would drive it into the log and then work it along until you rived out the board.

"Slave quarters were built right straight on down so that the master could look right down
the avenue when he would walk out. Little houses one right after the other."

Food

"The niggers had anything to eat that the master give 'em. He would give plenty such as it
was. Certain days they would go up and get it. Give it to 'em just like they go draw rations
now. But they'd give it to you not you say what you wanted. So much meal and so much meat,
and so on. Some of 'em raised flour. You had to take whatever you could get."

Father and Mother

"My father was a soldier (Confederate). He got sick with the scrofula and they sent him back
to his old master, Dr. Harris, in Enfield, North Carolina. [HW: He was a field hand at first,
but after he come back with the scrofula, they just made him a carriage driver.] That's how
I came to be born in 1864. My father married Betsy Judge right after he came back. They didn't
marry then as they do now. Just jumped over the broom."

Patrollers

"A slave couldn't go nowhere without a pass. If they caught you out without a pass, they'd
whip you. Jus' like if I wanted to go to a girl's house, my master would hand me a pass. If
he didn't, they'd ketch me and whip me if I got out and wasn't able to run away from them."

What the Freedmen Expected

"When the slave was freed, he was looking to get a home. They were goin' to do this and goin'
to do that but they didn't do nothin'. They let us stay on the place until we made the crop,
told us we was free to go wherever we wanted to go. That is all they give us and all we got.
Some said, 'You promised to give us a home', and they said to them, 'Well, you can stay here
as long as you live.'"

How Freedom Came

"The old master called them together and told them they was free. 'Peace declared. You all
have to go for yourselves. Won't whip no more now. You are all free.'"

Runaways and Mean Masters

"My father's master was right smart mean to him. It was partly my father's fault. He wouldn't
take no whipping much. If they would get after him he would run off. Whenever there was anything
they wanted him to do and he didn't go and do it just that minute, they wanted to whip him.
Jus' like a child, you know. He had to move when he was told. If he didn't do it then he got
a whipping. He would run away in the woods and stay a week or two before he'd come back. Sometimes
some of the boys would see him and they would say to him, 'Old master says for you to come
back home; he ain't goin' to do nothin' to you.' Nobody would go in the woods and hunt him.
Some of them would go in there and get hurt.

"There was some masters that would go in the woods hunting their niggers. Sometimes they'd
carry bloodhounds with them. They never did run my father with the bloodhounds though.

"My mother's master and mistress was good to her. They never drove her around. Old man Judge
died and left her mistress and she lived a widow the balance of her life. But she never gave
my mother no trouble."

Sales and Separations

"There was plenty of slaves being put up on the block and sold. My mother was sold. Her father
was a Cooper and she was sold to Judge. He bought my mother's mother and her both, so that
made her a Judge. He bought her and she had to go in his name. Her husband was left with the
Coopers. She was put up on the block. 'Who will give me a bid on this woman?' The old man was
bid back. The Coopers bid him back."

School

"My mother didn't get no schooling no more'n what I learned her after freedom. She never went
to school in her life. Still she saw she could read the Bible, the hymn-book, and such things
like that as she wanted to before she died."

What the Slaves Got

"They said that the President and the Governor was going to give land to the niggers--going
to take it off the owners that they worked for. But they never did get it."

Ku Klux Klan

"I heered talk of the Ku Klux. I can remember once when they come through there (Enfield).
That was eight or ten years after the War. They would ketch some of the niggers and whip them.
The young niggers got their guns and rigged up a plan to kill them and laid out in a place
for them, but they got wind of it and stopped coming."

Mother's Occupation

"My mother was a great weaver. She would weave cloth for the hands on the place. Some days
she would work around the house and some other days she'd go out and weave. When they wasn't
any weaving or spinning to be done, she'd go out in the field. The weaving and the spinning
was right in the white folks' house."

Own Occupation

"I used to be a preacher. Don't do much of nothin' now. Ain't able. Get a little help from
the Welfare--a little groceries sometimes. Don't get any pension. You see, I can't do much
on account of my blindness."

Opinions of Young People

"I can't tell you what I think of the young people. Times have got to be so fast. It is just
terrible to think how this life is. So much change from forty to fifty years ago. Just as much
difference on both sides, white and colored, as there is between chalk and cheese."

Praying Under Pots

"When they'd go to have a church meeting, they turn up the pot so that the noise wouldn't come
out. They could go to the white folks' church. But the spirit would come on them sometimes
to have service themselves. Then they'd go down to the house at night and turn up those big
old iron pots and master never would hear. They wouldn't put the washpot flat on the ground.
They'd put sticks under it and raise it up about a foot from the ground. If they'd put it flat
on the ground the ground would carry the sound."

Voting

"There weren't no voting at all in slavery times (in his locality--ed.) that is, far as the
niggers were concerned. But after everybody was free you could vote up until they stopped the
people from voting. They kept a Republican ticket in then. There wasn't no Democrat. None like
they is now. I don't know how this thing got mixed up like it is now.

"I remember once in North Carolina a man named Bryant got away with a lot of votes in the boxes.
He was seen to go out with two boxes under his arms. And when they counted up the votes, the
Democrats was ahead. In them days, they counted up the votes before they left the polls. They
wanted to kill him. They sent him to the penitentiary to stay five years. When he went in he
was a young man, and when he came back he was gray.

"There was some fighting down there that night. My father was a constable. It was the white
folks got to fighting each other. They got to 'resting them and they filled the calaboose full
that night. Didn't have but one jail and that was in Halifax. The penitentiary was in Raleigh.
Raleigh was about 85 miles from Halifax, and Halifax about 75 from Enfield. The jail was twelve
miles from Enfield."

Mulattoes

"There were mixed bloods then just like there are now. Them came by the old master, you know.
They treated the mulatto a little better than they did the other slaves. You know you would
have more respect for your own blood. My Aunt Rena was half-sister to my father. They had the
same mother but different fathers and they always gave her a little better treatment than they
give him. They didn't sell her. When slavery broke she was still with her master, Old Tom Hollis.
The old lady (her mother) was there too. They hadn't sold her neither. But they never give
none of them nothin' when they was freed.

"My father was a field hand at first. But after he went to war and come back with the scrofula,
they just made him a carriage driver. But he wasn't no mulatto though."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: William Hunter, Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 70

"John McBride was my mother's last owner. His wife died in slavery. I never heard her name
called. My mother come from Abbeville, South Carolina, a Negro trading point. When she was
put on the block my father went to McBride and asked him to buy that woman for him a wife.
He said she was a mighty pretty young woman. McBride bought her. I don't know how they got
to Carroll County, Mississippi but that is where I was born. My mother raised Walter and Johnny
McBride (white). She nursed one of them along with my brother May--May McBride was his name.
That was at Asme, Alabama before I was born. I heard my mother say she never worked in the
field but two years in her whole life. It must have been just after the war, for I have seen
a ditch she and another woman cut. When they cut it, it was 4 ft. × 4 ft. I don't know the
length. When I seed it, it was a creek 100 ft. wide. I don't know how deep. I recollect hearing
my father talk about clearing land before freedom but I don't know if he was in Alabama or
Mississippi then.

"My mother was mixed with the white race. She was a bright woman. My father was a real dark
man. He was a South Carolina gutchen--soft water folks, get mad and can't talk. He was crazy
about yellow folks.

"McBride died fifty-one years ago. When I was a boy he carried me with him--right in the buggy
or oxcart with him till I was up nineteen years old. He went to the saloon to get a dram. I
got one too. When he went to a big hotel to eat something he sent out the kitchen door to me
out to our buggy or wagon. We camped sometimes when we went to town. It took so long to go
over the roads.

"When freedom was declared McBride called up all his slaves and told em they was free; they
could go or stay on. My father moved off two years after freedom and then he moved back and
we stayed till the old man died. Then my father went to Varden, Mississippi and worked peoples
gardens. He was old then too.

"I never seen a 'white cap' (Ku Klux). I heard a heap of talk about em. The people in Mississippi
had respect for colored worship.

"I farmed till we went to Varden, Mississippi. I started working on the section. I was brakeman
on the train out from Water Valley. Then I come to Wheatley, Arkansas. I worked on the section.
All told, I worked forty years on the section. I worked on a log wagon, with a tire company,
at the oil mill and in the cotton mill. I had a home till it went in the Home Loan. I have
to pay $2.70 a month payments. I get commodities, no money, from the Welfare. My wife is dead now."

  MAY 11 1938
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Ida Blackshear Hutchinson
                      2620 Orange Street, North Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 73

Birth

"I was born in 1865 in Alabama in Sumter County on Sam Scale's place near the little town called
Brushville (?)." [HW: Bushville or Brushville(?)]

Parents and Grandparents

"My father's name was Isom Blackshear. Some people call it Blackshire, but we call it Blackshear.
His master was named Uriah Blackshear. I have heard him say so many times the year he was born.
He died (Isom) in 1905 and was in his eighty-first year then. That would make him born in 1824.
His birth was on the fourth day of May. People back in them days lived longer than we do now.
My grandfather, Jordan Martin, lived to be one hundred sixteen years old. Grandpa died about
nine years ago in Sumter County, Alabama. He was my grandfather on my mother's side.

"My grandfather on my father's side was Luke Blackshear. He was born in Alabama too, and I
suppose in Sumter County too. He died in Sumter County. He died about five years before the
Civil War.

"My mother was born in North Carolina. Her name was Sylvia Martin before she married my father.
She was a Blackshear when she died. She died in 1885. The white people went out in North Carolina
and bought her, her mother, Nancy, and her father, Jordan, and brought them to Sumter County,
Alabama. My mother's mother was an Indian; her hair came down to her waist."

Luke Blackshear (Breeder)

"My grandfather on my father's side, Luke Blackshear, was a 'stock' Negro.

"Isom Blackshear, his son, was a great talker. He said Luke was six feet four inches tall and
near two hundred fifty pounds in weight. He was what they called a double-jointed man. He was
a mechanic,--built houses, made keys, and did all other blacksmith work and shoemaking. He
did anything in iron, wood or leather. Really he was an architect as well. He could take raw
cowhide and make leather out of it and then make shoes out of the leather.

"Luke was the father of fifty-six children and was known as the GIANT BREEDER. He was bought
and given to his young mistress in the same way you would give a mule or colt to a child.

"Although he was a stock Negro, he was whipped and drove just like the other Negroes. All of
the other Negroes were driven on the farm. He had to labor but he didn't have to work with
the other slaves on the farm unless there was no mechanical work to do. He was given better
work because he was a skilled mechanic. He taught Isom blacksmithing, brickmaking and bricklaying,
shoemaking, carpentry, and other things. The ordinary blacksmith has to order plow points and
put than on, but Luke made the points themselves, and he taught Isom to do it. And he taught
him to make mats, chairs, and other weaving work. He died sometime before the War."

Isom Blackshear

"Isom Blackshear, Luke's son and my father, farmed until he was eighteen years old, and was
a general mechanic as mentioned when I was telling about my grandfather Luke, for sixty odd
years. Up to within seven months of his death, he was making chairs and baskets and other things.
He never was in bed in his life until his last sickness. That was his first and his last. Never
did he have a doctor's bill to pay or for his master to pay,--until he died. He worked on the
batteries at Vicksburg during the War.

"Isom ran away three times. He was a field hand up to eighteen years. The overseer wanted to
whip him. Isom would help his wife in the field because she couldn't keep up with the others
and he would help her to keep the overseer from whipping her. He'd take her beside him and
row his row and hers too. He was the fastest worker on the place. The overseer told him to
not do that. But Isom just kept on doing it anyway. Then the overseer asked Isom for his shirt.
When they whipped you them days they didn't whip you on your clothes because they didn't want
to wear them out. Isom said he was not going to take off his shirt because his mistress gave
it to him and he wasn't going to give it to anybody else. Then the overseer stepped 'round
in front of him to stop him, because Isom had just kept on hoeing. Isom just caught the overseer's
feet in his hoe and dumped him down on the ground and went on hoeing his own row and his wife's.
He called his hoe 'One Eyed Aggie.'

"The overseer said, 'You think you done something smart' and he went for his master. The overseer
was named Mack Hainey. His master came out the next morning and caught Isom. Isom has often
told us about it.

"'First thing I knowed, he had his feet on my hoe and he said, "Isom, they tell me you can't
be whipped." "I'd be willing to be whipped if I'd done anything." "Huh!" said my master, "Right
or wrong, if my overseer asked you for your shirt give it to him."'

"He held a pistol on him. They made him pull off his shirt and tied him up to a gin post. The
overseer hit him five times and kept him there till noon trying to get him to say that he would
give his shirt to him the next time. Finally Isom promised and the overseer untied him. When
the overseer untied him, Isom took his shirt in one hand and the overseer's whip in the other
and whipped him almost all the way to the big house. Then he ran away and stayed in the woods
for three or four days until his old master sent word for him to come on back and he wouldn't
do nothing to him.

"When he went back, his master took him off the farm because he and my father was nursed together
and he didn't want Isom killed. So from that time on, my father never worked as a field hand
any more. And they put Isom's wife as a cook. She couldn't chop cotton fast enough and they
couldn't handle Isom as long as she was in the field; so they put her to washing, and ironing,
and cooking, and milking.

"The second time father ran away was once when they missed some groceries out of the storeroom.
Master asked him if he took them because he made the keys to the place and not a person on
the place but him could know anything about getting in there. He didn't own it, so they tied
him up and whipped him two days. When night come they took him and tied him in his house and
told his wife that if he got loose they would put the portion on her. He didn't try to get
loose because he knowed if he did they would whip her, so he stayed. At noon time when they
went to get the dinner they poured three buckets of water in his face and almost drowned him.
Then after dinner they came back and whipped him again. Finally he said, 'I didn't do it but
nothing will suit you but for me to say I did, so I will say I did it.' So he owned up to it.

"A few days later Mr. Horn who owned the adjoining plantation came over and asked him if he
had missed anything,--any rations he said. Old master told him 'Yes' and went on to explain
what had been taken and what he had done about it. Then Mr. Horn took Mr. Blackshear over to
his house and showed him the rations and they were the one he had whipped my old father about.
Then Blackshear came back and told my father that he was sorry, that he never had known him
to steal anything. He turned him loose and apologized to him but he made him work with the
bloody shirt that they whipped him in sticking to his back.

"The third time he ran off he was in the army working on the batteries at Vicksburg. He worked
there till he got to thinking about his wife and children, and then he ran off. He got tired
and hungry and he went to Mopilis and give himself up. The jailer written to his master, that
is to his mistress, about it, and she got her father to go and see about him and bring him
home. They'd had a big storm. The houses were in bad shape. The fences was blown down. The
plows was broken or dull and needed fixin'. And they were so glad to see Isom that they didn't
whip him nor nothin' for runnin' away.

"Isom's mother was named Winnie Blackshear. She was Luke's wife. She was a light brownskin
woman and weighed about one hundred fifty pounds. I have seen her, but Luke was dead before
I was born. Grandmother Winnie has been dead about twenty years now. She labored in the field.

"My mother's mother was named Nancy Martin and her father was named Jordan Martin. We kept
a Jordan in the family all the way down. Both of them farmed. They were slaves.

"There were fourteen children of us,--eleven sisters and three brothers. The brothers were
Jordan, Prince, and John. The sisters were Margaret, Eliza, Nancy, Tempy, Bell, Abbie, Caroline,
Frances, Dosia, Mattie, Lucy, Louisa, Ida."

Suicide

"They say Negroes won't commit suicide, but Isom told us of a girl that committed suicide.
There was a girl named Lu who used to run off and go to the dances. The patrollers would try
to catch her but they couldn't because she was too fast on her feet. One day they got after
her in the daytime. She had always outran them at night. She ran to the cabin and got her quarter
which she had hid. She put the quarter in her mouth. The white folks didn't allow the slaves
to handle no money. The quarter got stuck in her throat, and she went on down to the slough
and drowned herself rather than let them beat her, and mark her up. Then patrollers sure would
get you and beat you up. If they couldn't catch you when you were running away from them, they
would come on your master's place and get you and beat you. The master would allow them to
do it. They didn't let the patrollers come on the Blackshear place, but this gal was so hard-headed
'bout goin' out that they made a 'ception to her. And they intended to make her an example
to the rest of the slaves. But they didn't get Lucy."

Death of Sixty Babies

"Once on the Blackshear place, they took all the fine looking boys and girls that was thirteen
years old or older and put them in a big barn after they had stripped them naked. They used
to strip them naked and put them in a big barn every Sunday and leave them there until Monday
morning. Out of that came sixty babies.

"They was too many babies to leave in the quarters for some one to take care of during the
day. When the young mothers went to work Blackshear had them take their babies with them to
the field, and it was two or three miles from the house to the field. He didn't want them to
lose time walking backward and forward nursing. They built a long old trough like a great long
old cradle and put all these babies in it every morning when the mother come out to the field.
It was set at the end of the rows under a big old cottonwood tree.

"When they were at the other end of the row, all at once a cloud no bigger than a small spot
came up, and it grew fast, and it thundered and lightened as if the world were coming to an
end, and the rain just came down in great sheets. And when it got so they could go to the other
end of the field, that trough was filled with water and every baby in it was floating 'round
in the water drownded. They never got nary a lick of labor and nary a red penny for ary one
of them babies."

Experiences just after the War

"Mother had been a cook and she just kept on cooking, for the same people. My father he went
to farming."

Patrollers

"My father said that the patrollers would run you and ketch you and whip you if you didn't
have a pass, when you was away from the pass.[HW: place?] But they didn't bother you if you
had a pass. The patrollers were mean white people who called themselves making the niggers
stay home. I think they were hired. They called their selves making the niggers stay home.
They went all through the community looking for people, and whipping them when they'd leave
home without a pass. They said you wasn't submissive when you left home without a pass. They
hounded Lucy to death. She wouldn't let 'em get her, and she wouldn't let 'em get her quarter."

Ku Klux Klan

"I have seen the Ku Klux. I have washed their regalia and ironed it for them. They wouldn't
let just anybody wash and iron it because they couldn't do it right. My son's wife had a job
washing and ironing for them and I used to go down and help her. I never did take a job of
any kind myself because my husband didn't let me. The regalia was white. They were made near
like these singing robes the church choirs have. But they were long--come way down to the shoe
tops. That was along in the nineties,--about 1890. It was when they revived the Ku Klux the
last time before the World War. In the old days the patrollers used to whip them for being
out without a pass but the Ku Klux used to whip them for disorderly living.

"Way back yonder when I was in Alabama, too, I can remember the Ku Klux riding. I was a little
child then. The Republicans and Democrats were at war with each other then and they was killing
everybody. My brother was one of them they run. He could come out in the daytime, but in the
night he would have to hide. They never got him. He dodged them. That was 'round in 1874. In
1875, him and my uncle left Alabama and went to Louisiana. They called him a stump speaker.
They wanted to kill him. They killed Tom Ivory. He was the leader of the Republicans--he was
a colored man. His father was white but his mother was a Negro. His father educated him in
slavery time. He had been up North and was coming back. They knew he was coming back, so they
went up the creek and waited for him--his train. They flagged it down, and some one on the
train commenced hollering, 'Look yonder.' Ivory stepped out on the platform to see what they
were hollering about, and all them guns started popping and Ivory fell over the end of the
platform and down on the ground. He was already leaning over the gate when they fired. Then
they come up and cut his tongue out before he died. They said if they got him that would stop
all the rest of the niggers. You see, he was a leader.

"Niggers was voting the Republican ticket 'long about that time. They just went in gangs riding
every night--the Ku Klux did. Ku Kluxing and killing them they got hold of.

"The police arrested all the men that had anything to do with Tom Ivory's killing. The leader
of the killers was a white man they called Captain Hess. I never knowed how the trial came
out because we left there while they was still in jail."

How Freedom Came

"I heard my mother say that when the Refugees came through Sumter County, Alabama, she wasn't
free but was 'sot' free later. The refugees came through along in February. Then the papers
was struck and it went out that the niggers all was free. Mother's master and my oldest brother
who had stayed in the War with his master four years came home. The refugees was in there when
he got home. They went on through. They didn't tarry long there. Then the papers came out and
the next day, master called all the hands up to the big house and told them they was free.
Mother was set free in the latter part of February and I was born June 5, 1865, so I was born
free."

Leaving Alabama

"We left Alabama in the same year Tom Ivory got killed. More than fifty colored people left
on the train and come off when we did. People was leaving Alabama something terrible. I never
did know what happened to Tom's killers. I heard afterwards that Alabama got broke, they had
to pay for so many men they killed."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Cornelia Ishmon
                      3319 W. Second Avenue
                      Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 78

"I was born in Mississippi and I can member seein' the Yankees goin' by. I was a little bit
of a girl and Betsy Hardy, that was old Miss, she kep' the Yankees from gettin' me. She told
me many a time if it hadn't been for her I'd a had my brains beat out against a tree. When
I didn't do to suit her, she'd tell me bout dat. I stayed right in the house.

"I member when they was lookin' for Johnson's brigade and when they saw it was the Yankees
they just flew. The Yankees was goin' through there doin' what they wanted.

"I never got no further than the third grade."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  El Dorado District
  Name of interviewer: Mildred Thompson & Carol Graham.
  Subject: Uncle Jack Island--Ex-Slave.
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page add page)

"Yas'm ah membuhs a lil'l bit bout slavery days. Ah wuz jes a chap den. Ah'm 73 now. Ah wuz
such a chap dat ah didn' do much work. Day use tuh cook on de fiuh place an ah'd tote in bark
an wood fuh em tuh cook wid an git up de aigs (eggs) an sich li'l things as dat.

"Mah ole marster was Marse Bullock an we lived in de Lisbon community.

"Mistress' baby chile wuz a boy an he wuz jes six months olduh dan ah wuz. Ah wuz de only boy
chile in de whole business uv slaves. Evah evenin bout a hour by de sun dey would feed us an
by sundown we bettuh be in baid. Dat wuz tuh git us outn de way when de grown fokes come in.
Dey wuz six uv us chillun an dey would feed us in a big wooden tray. Dey'd po' hot pot liquor
in de tray an crumble braid in hit. Den dey'd give us each a spoon an we would all git roun
an eat. Dere wuz Lizzie, Nancy, Sistuh Julia, Sistuh Lu and Martha. Der wuz six uv us. Aftuh
dey fed us we would go tuh baid an tuh sleep. Dey had ole fashion wheels. Some nights de women
would spin. We wouldn' heah dem when dey come in but when dat ole wheel started tuh goin hit'd
wake me up an ah'd lie der a while an watch em spin den ah'd go tuh sleep ergin, an leave em
spinnin'. Sometimes we wouldn' see our mamas fum Sunday night till next Sunday mornin. Mah
mistress wove cloth. Bout de biggest thing ah done wuz help huh wid huh weavin. Ah would pick
up de shickle (shuttle) an run hit through fuh huh. Dat bout de biggest thing ah'd do sides
feedin the chickens an bringin in bark. In dem days wuznt no buckets much. We used hand gourds
dat would hold two or three gallons uv watuh. An ah'd carry one uv dem gourds uv watuh tuh
de fiel' tuh em while day was pickin cotton. One yeah de cotton worms wuz so bad an ah hadn'
nevah seen none. Ah'd started tuh de fiel' wid de gourd uv watuh an saw dem worms an oh, ah
jes bawled. Mah mama had tuh come an git me. Ah didn' know nothin bout dem worms.

"De nearest battle in de wah was at Vicksburg. Ah membuh one day hit got so smoky an ah could
heah de guns. Ah thought hit wuz thunderin an said tuh ole missus dat hit wuz gointer rain
soon but ole missus say: 'Oh Lawdy, dat aint thunder. Ah wish hit wuz. Dat's guns and dat,
dat yo sees is smoke an not clouds.' Aftuh de wah wuz ovah we stayed on wid ole marster. Soon
aftuh de wah wuz ovah marster died an missus mahried Ed Oakley, a spare built man. Dey lives
in Arcadia, Louisiana now. Ah stayed on thar till ah wuz bout fo'teen an ah lef' dere. Wuz
gone bout a yeah an ah learnt sumpin too. When ah got off ah had tuh go to work. Bout all ah
had tuh do at home wuz tuh take keer uv de stock aftuh ah got big nough tuh but ah sho nuff
worked den. Ah stayed way bout a year den ah went back an stayed dere too till ah was bout
twenty-one. Ah been mahried three times. Ah had five chillun by mah fust wife an dem is all
de chillun ah evah had. One uv dem lives in town, one in Texas, one Dubach, La., one is daid
an ah don' know de where-bouts uv de othuh one. De las' time ah heerd anything bout him he
wuz in Hot Springs. Mah present wife's name is Talitha. We has one gran'chile livin wid us.
He bout fifteen an is at school ovah dar crost de road wha yo sees dat house. Oh Missy dem
times we been tawkin bout wuz de good times. Dese times are hard."

  #792
  FORM A
  Circumstances of Interview

  STATE--Arkansas
  NAME OF WORKER--Mrs. Carol Graham
  ADDRESS--El Dorado, Arkansas
  DATE--December, 1938
  SUBJECT--Ex-slave

1. Name and address of informant--Jack and Talitha Island, Route 1, El Dorado, Arkansas.

2. Date and time of interview--December, 1938

3.

1. Ancestry--

2. Place and date of birth--Talitha was born April 14, 1864 in Arcadia, Louisiana. Jack was
born in 1863.

3. Family--Talitha had three children and Jack had three children.

4. Places lived in, with dates--Talitha lived in Arcadia, Louisiana until freedom. Jack and
Talitha now live in El Dorado.

9. Description of informant--

10. Other points gained in interview--They tell some of their childhood days.

  #792
  FORM C
  Text of Interview (Unedited)

Talitha: "Howdy, chillun, come in. Naw suh, Jack ain't heah right now. He down tuh the thicket
back uv de house gittin' some wood. Naw suh, he won't be gone long. He soon be back. You all
come in and set on the gallery. Here's a cheer, missy. He be back in no time tall.

"You wants to know how old I am? I was born April 14, 1864 before the niggers was freed in '65.

"My mother was a field woman (worked in the field) and had seven chillun when set free. Her
mistress raised her from three weeks old. Her mother burned to death in a house on the plantation.
Our home was 'bout four miles east of Arcadia, Louisiana, or rather Miss Sarah Given's house
was, and we stayed on wid her until I was a big girl, plowin' and hoeing.

"No ma'am, I never did go to no parties. I was never 'lowed to go. I been a member of the church
since I was ten and now I'm seventy-three.

"I first married a man by the name of Williams and had three chillun by him, two boys and one
girl. Then I was a widow fifteen years before I married Jack. We ain't never had no chillun,
but Jack had three chillun and I helped to raise them and I've helped raise a bunch of his
gran'chillun.

"I believes I hear Jack back there now."

Jack: "Howdy, howdy! So you is back for more tales 'bout long ago. I'se seventy-three and I
been in this world a long time I tell you."

Talitha: "Now, Jack, you knows you is heap older 'n me and I'm seventy-three and I was born
jes 'bout a year befo the War closed and you say you was a big chap then."

Jack: "Well, I guess I was around six years old when the War started. I was a good big chap.
I 'member one evening 'bout three o'clock I was settin' out in the yard playin' with a mate
of mine--Johnnie Cook. I guess you would call him my mate; he was my mistress's boy and 'bout
my age and we played together all the time even if I was black. I was the only black boy on
the place, all the other cullud chillun was gals. Us chaps was out in the yard making frog
nesties with our bare feet in the sand. They was fightin' in Vicksburg then. They was doing
a whole lot of shooting. You could hear it one right after the other and it got so smoky. I
thought it was thunder and said something 'bout hit. Mistress was setting on the gallery sewing
and when I said that she said, 'Aw Lawd, that ain't no thunder,' but she didn' tell us what
hit wuz."

Talitha: "Course I wasn't old enough to know anything 'bout hit but I heard my mother say it
got so smoky the chickens didn't get off the roost while they was bustin' all them big cannons."

Jack: "All us chillun was just as fat and healthy as hogs. Warn't never sick. They'd feed 'bout
this time every evening (4 p.m.) and by sundown I was in bed. My mother worked in the field
and I've heard her say that sometime she didn't see her chillun from Sunday to Sunday. Old
lady Hannah Banks done the cooking for everybody and she cooked on a big fireplace. They didn't
have no stove. Why, I got here before the stoves did. Ma and pa and all the grown ones would
get up at four o'clock and eat breakfast and be in the field workin' by sunup. They had a box
with shelves drove up on the side of the wall to the cabin where we slept and old lady Hannah
Banks would put our breakfast in that and when we woke up we would get it and eat. One morning
I woke up before the other chillun did and 'cided I'd git my breakfast first 'fore they did.
I clem up, rech up and got holt of that box and I was so heavy I pulled it down and broke all
the old blue edge plates. That woke the other chillun up all right, and I can jes see them
old blue edge plates now. For dinner they would give us boiled greens or beans wid bread and
for supper they would save the slop (liquor), cram it full of bread, pour it in a tray and
give it to all the chilluns and me, sister Julia, Nancy, Lizzie, Marthy, and all the little
nigger chillun."

Talitha: "Huh! Old man Givens had so many little nigger chillun couldn' feed 'em in no tray.
Had to have troughs. They'd take a log and hollow it out and make three tubs in a row and put
peg legs on it and a hole in the bottom of each one with a pin in it. They would use these
tubs to wash the clothes in and pull the stem up to let all the water run out, clean 'em out
real good, fill with bread and pot-licker or bread and milk, and feed the nigger chillun."

Jack: "You say our nephew wants to come out and bring a bunch of young folks and wants me to
take them 'possum hunting some moonlight night? Sho, sho, I'll go."

Talitha: "I don't know how he'd go lessen we totes him. Why, he got the rheumatism so bad he
can't hardly git 'round in the daytime much less at night. Why, the other day he was out in
the field follerin' the boy that was plowin' up the potatoes and we was goin' on pickin' them
up. First thing I know I hear somethin' behind me go 'plop' and I looked roun and there lay
Jack jes stretched out. Fell down over his own feet. So what would he do out nights? And you
sees that knot on his ankle. Hit was broke when he was a boy an' hit still gives him trouble
when his rheumatism starts up."

Jack: "You say how did I do it? I was jumpin'. A bunch of us boys was jumpin' 'cross a ditch
jes to see how far we could jump. I was a young chap 'bout seventeen or eighteen then. I was
doin' purty well with my jumpin' when I made a misjump an' jumped crooked and hit my ankle
on a big old iron rock. My but hit hurt bad. I didn' do no more jumpin' that day. The next
day I was down in the woods getting a load of lider. Had put on a few pieces on the wagon when
I started to turn aroun and down I went. I jes lay there and hollered till someone come an'
got me. That was in the winter just before Christmas and I didn't get out no more till in the
spring. The woods looked right purty to me when I got out. The leaves was great big. And that
ain't all, I ain't jumped no more since. 'Sides that I ain't never been sick to 'mount to anything.
Had the whooping cough at the same time that Joe and Tom Snyder had hit. Still got my natchel
teeth, lost four up here and got one that bothers me some, 'sides that I have 'em all. Yas
suh, that the schoolhouse 'cross the road there. We has preachin' there sometimes too. Does
Ab preach there? He, he, he! sometime he do. Did I ever tell you 'bout the time Ab was preaching
out here at  and got to stampin' roun wid that peg-leg of his'n an' hit went through the rotten
floor and we had to pull him out? He, he, he!"

Talitha: "Now, Jack Island, you knows that is jes 'nother one uv yo tales. I is been to hear
Ab preach lots of times and he does storm roun mighty bad and I ain't got no faith in his religion
tall but I warn't there when he fell through the floo'."

  Interviewer: Pernella M. Anderson
  Person interviewed: Mary Island
                      626 Nelson Street, El Dorado, Arkansas
  Age: 80

"I was born in Union Parish, Louisiana in the year of 1857, so the white folks told me, and
I am eighty years old. My mama died when I was two years old and my aunty raised me. She started
me out washing dishes when I was four years old and when I was six she was learning me how
to cook. While the other hands was working in the field I carried water. We had to cook out
in the yard on an old skillet and lid, so you see I had to tote brush and bark and roll up
little logs such as I could to keep the fire from one time of cooking to the other. I was not
but six years old either. When I got to be seven years old I was cutting sprouts almost like
a man and when I was eight I could pick one hundred pounds of cotton. When it rained and we
could not go to the field my aunty had me spinning thread to make socks and cloth, then I had
to card the bats and make the rolls to spin.

"My auntie was a slave and she lived in the edge of the field. Of course I was born a slave
but didn't know much about it because my aunty did the bossing of me but I had a pretty hard
time. Our wash tubs, water buckets, bread trays and such were made out of tupelo gum logs dug
out with some kind of an axe and when aunty would wash I had to use the battling stick. I would
carry the wet clothes to a stump and beat them with that battling stick and we hung the clothes
out on bushes and on the fence. We used water from a spring.

"In my young days all we wore was homespun and lowel.[HW: ?] We lived in a log house with a
dirt floor and the cracks was chinked with mud and our bed was some poles nailed against the
wall with two legs out on the dirt floor, and we pulled grass and put in a lowel[HW: ?] bed
tick. My aunty would get old dresses, old coats, and old pants and make quilts.

"I never went to school a day in my life. No, the back of my head has never rubbed against
the walls of a schoolhouse and I never did go to Sunday School and I never did like it. And
I didn't go to church until I was grown and the church that I did attend was called the Iron
Jacket Church. Now they call it the Hard Shell Church. I believe in foot washing. I don't go
to church now because there is no Hard Shell church close around here."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Henrietta Isom, Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 81

"I was born in Mississippi. It wasn't far from Memphis, Tennessee. I heard em talking bout
it then. When I first knowed anything we lived way down in Mississippi. It was on a big farm
not close to no place much. My ma's and pa's master was named Thornton. Seems lack it was Jack
and her name was Miss Lucretia. They show did have a big family, little ones on up. I have
three sisters and a brother all dead--ma was a farm hand. She left us wid a real old woman--all
the little children stayed right wid her. We minded her lack our ma's. She switch our legs
if we didn't. She carded and sewed about all the time.

"I don't know much about master and mistress; their house was way over the field. They lived
on a hill and had the finest well of water. It was so cold. They had two buckets on a chain
to pull it up by. The cabins down closer to the creek. There was two springs one used mostly
for washing and the other for house use.

"I don't know how many cabins they was scattered. He had a lot of hands about all I remembers--on
Saturdays we get to go up to the house to fetch back something; some provisions. They tell
us if we be good we could go. They done their own cooking. When they work their dinners was
sent to the shade trees from white folks house and the childrens was sent too. We would all
stand around Miss Rachel (white) when she bring it then we go sit on the steps and eat. We
show did have plenty to eat. We wear the dresses new in cold weather then they wear thin for
summer. They be lighter in color too when they fade.

"I remember when the white folks left an went to war. They worked on. They had a white man
and a colored man boss. When freedom was declared nearly all of them walked off so glad they
was free. I don't know where they all went. My folks went to another big place. We had a hard
time. We all farmed. I don't know what they expected from freedom. Nobody didn't ask for nuthin.
I remembers when some new hands was bought and put on the place. I think they sold em off in town.

"After de war at the church they talked bout if they didn't get freedom they would clang together
for der rights but they never did do nuthin. Times was so hard they had to work harder than before.

"The Yankees nor none of the soldiers ever come to our cabins--I seen them along the roads.
They show did clean up Miss Leucretia's calves and hogs. Took em all off at one time. Rations
show did get mighty scarce.

"They sing, I recken they did sing, go off to work singin and the men whistlin. Mostly sung
religious songs. Master Thornton had a white man preach sometimes. Down in front of the cabins
in the shade. Sometimes somebody get to go to white church with the family. They held the baby.
They didn't have no school.

"I seed the Ku Klux Klans in the road light nights--when they pass we all peep out the cracks.
They didn't bother nobody I knowed. We was scared they would turn in an come to the house.

"I farmed all my life, hoed cotton and corn. No maam I aint never voted--I jess lives wid my
children here and my son in Memphis and my other daughter at Helena. My daughter do farm work
and my son railroads. He works in the yards.

"I don't know what to say bout the generations comin on. They is smarter in their books and
sees more than older folks, but they ain't no better. You kaint depend on what they says. I
don't know what to say would make the country better lessen the folks all be better.

"I never heard of no rebellions. I jess lived in Mississippi till I comes here and Memphis
and stay around wid the children and grandchildren. They all do fairly well for the fast times
I guess."