It was rapidly growing dark, when, as I hurried on toward my cheerful welcome, a bend in the
road brought me in sight of a figure that filled me with curiosity and amazement.

  "Was it a man?
  A devil infernal?
  An angel supernal?"

Was it were-wolf spectral, or bear aboriginal? It lived and moved, and, as I cautiously neared
the spot, I seemed to recognize a human being in the singular form,--stooping, squatting, and
groping before me.

The man, for such it proved, was performing most wondrous gymnastics upon the ground,--smelling
here, smelling there, too agile to be tipsy, too silent to be mad. I had no desire to be alone
in a lonely road at nightfall with a maniac, and I was not sorry when my nearer approach resolved
these strange phenomena into a well-dressed pedestrian on all-fours in the middle of a dusty
highway.

He rose as I approached, and I smiled to see that the spectacles astride his handsome nose
were minus one lens. He seemed half blind and wholly bewildered. I looked at once for the lost
glass, and there it lay shining at me from the very spot where he had been so industriously
peering. He laughed grimly as I handed it to him, fitted his treasure into its wonted rim,
took out his watch, and with a low chuckle said,--

"Twenty-five minutes is a long time to search for a bit of such small circumference. Thank
you. Do you go to the Deacon's?"

"Yes."

"So do I."

We walked on together in silence, till we reached our journey's end,--I too tired, he too reserved,
too preoccupied, or too shy, to speak again; but when, at last, we were seated with our cigars
on the Deacon's door-step, he turned suddenly to me and asked,--

"Are you fond of the country?"

"Why, yes! What else is there?" I answered, laughing.

"Ah, you are an artist!"

"I hope to be one."

"Its a bad business," said he, testily,--"a very bad business. If I were you, I would give it up."

"Have you ever tried it?"

"Tried it?" he ejaculated, kicking the gravel-walk,--"yes, and everything else, I believe.
If I thought it would do you any good, I would give you the benefit of my experience; but you'd
only laugh, and make a good story of it to your wife."

"Alas! I have no such incumbrance."

"The worse for you, if you have genius and the modesty of genius. A true artist, who seeks
to interpret Nature in its purest and most exquisite relations, who penetrates the deepest
temples of the woods and the silent sanctuaries of the mountains, must be a true, pure, and
good man. He must be a happy man,--happy in a sweet and natural way. A man whose life is passed
in a daily delight that gently stirs without feverish excitement will be tender and most lovely
to women. He ought to marry."

"Did you ever write poetry?" I asked.

"I began to compose when I was six years old. I wrote a poem on the sea, commencing,--

  'O thou earthly sea,
  Every person thinks of thee,--
  The sailor, and the busy bee,
  And the Chinese drinking tea!'

I thought it very fine. I have written many things since then, and they seemed good to me at
the time. I would not venture to say how they struck others."

He smiled pleasantly.

"Do not be frightened by the shadow of a possible wife from unfolding your history," said I.
"Chance has thrown us together; befriend me with your experience."

"Take warning, then, if need be.

"In college I was thought 'a very able fellow,' one 'who held the pen of a ready writer'; and
I graduated as vain of my supposed talents as a young miss of her first conquest.

"My earliest literary essay was in a new magazine, which, as it was just rising into notice,
would be, I imagined, greatly assisted by my condescension. It was a charity, indeed, to give
my support to this fledgling, and I sent to it a long article, entitled, 'The Cultivated, as
Moving and Educational Powers.' My manuscripts were returned, with this quiet bit of advice:--'Before
"X.Y.Z." institutes any other reforms, we would advise him to reperuse his English Grammar.'
Far from having a salutary effect, this rebuff only rankled in my soul. I determined to revenge
myself on the paltry malignant who dared to despise my efforts. I therefore wrote a slashing
criticism for one of the evening papers, demolishing (as I thought) the delinquent periodical,
and denouncing its whole corps of writers as frivolous and almost illiterate. My satire was
returned, being too personal for publication.

"Just at this time I chanced to fall in love with Miss Ellen Wilson, now Mrs. Martin. Fancying
my passion unrequited, I poured forth my feelings in ten melancholy stanzas, beginning,--

  'Oh! what avails it, if the spring be bright?'

These verses were very morbid and dreary, but they were published in the 'Tri-Weekly Tribune,'
and 'Hope revived again.'

"The drama I next deemed worthy of my attention, and wrote a play, the plot of which I thought
quite new and original. A large fortune is left to my hero, who forthwith becomes enamored
of a fair damsel; but, fearful lest the beloved object should worship his money more than his
merits, he disguises himself in a wig and blue spectacles, becomes tutor to her brother, and
wins her affections while playing pedagogue. On her acknowledging her attachment, he flings
his disguises into the sea, and, in the wildness of his joy at being adored for his profundity
in Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, Spanish, German, Mathematics, Natural Science, and Civil Engineering,
folds his loved one in his arms, and springs into the surf, where both are drowned.

"This, you see, was quite new."

"Quite," I replied, laughing.

"I published it at my own expense, and I must say I have yet to receive the first remittance
for this truly original work.

"During the next season, I met with Hans Andersen's inimitable 'Märchen,' and, immediately
setting myself to work, I wrote 'Uncle Job's Legacies,' a series of children's tales, full,
as I fondly fancied, of poetry, pleasantry, and information. I sent them to 'The Juvenile Weekly,'
then published in the city. They were accepted with a profusion of thanks; and in a few days
I called, by request, at the office, expecting large compensation for services so eagerly received.

"I went up a dirty staircase, into a mean, slovenly back-office, where a small, uncleanly man
sat tipped back in his chair, picking his teeth. He seemed the personification of nonchalance,
impudence, and conceit. As I entered, he looked up with a lazy insolence, which, had I been
a woman, would have brought a hot flush of indignation to my face, and, on my mentioning my
name, he rose and extended a very dirty hand.

"'Glad to see you, Sir,--hope you'll continue your contributions,--Uncle Job,--good idea, Sir,--love
the little ones? So do we, Sir,--work very hard for them,--don't pay at all,--poor business,--pure
charity,--that's all.'

"'But you don't mean to say,' I exclaimed, 'that your contributors are expected to work from
charity?'

"'Glad to pay them, if we could, but we can't afford it,--more contributions than we can use,--best
authors in the country write for us,--pure love for the little ones, I assure you.'

"'Will you give me my manuscripts?' I said. 'I do not vouchsafe to bestow my time and thoughts
for nothing. If you do not pay, I can offer them to others who do.'

"'You won't find a child's paper in the United States that pays,' he growled. 'We don't care
for contributions. Me and my partner writes most of the articles ourselves.'

"'Will you give me my manuscripts?' I said again, anxious to put an end to the interview, and
disgusted with the fellow's falsehood.

"'Hallo! Mortimer, do you know where them are?'

"'Sorry I can't oblige you,' said a fat man, dirtier and greasier than the first, emerging
from an inner den; 'they're gone to press.'

"'If you tell me any more lies,' cried I, becoming furious, 'I shall take measures that you
will not at all relish. If you will not give me my manuscripts, I shall take them'; and, suiting
the action to the word, I snatched them from a shelf, where they lay conspicuous, and carried
them off without further parley.

"This cured me for a while of all literary ambition. But the unquiet spirit within me would
not rest, and during the following summer I wrote a sentimental tale, full of aspirations,
large adjectives, and soft epithets. It was accepted by a well-known monthly, then supposed
to be in the height of its prosperity. This was a grain of comfort, and I looked forward confidently
to a long future of remuneration and renown, when a letter of regret arrived from the fair
editress, returning my story, and explaining, that, being unable to meet her engagements, the
magazine had been sold to pay her debts.

"This was bad; but my story was my own, and I accordingly despatched it to 'The Salmagundian,'
a periodical of the highest reputation. There it was published, praised, and further contributions
requested. Several weeks passed away. I indited a poem, entitled, 'Past and Future, or, Golden
and Leaden Hours.' This also appeared in print, and my thirst for fame was beginning to be
satisfied, when a polite note reached me from 'The Salmagundian' office, begging for another
tale, and offering to pay me in back numbers of the magazine. I wrote no more."

"Art beguiled you then, perhaps?"

"Alas, yes, the siren! I had taken lessons from a very clever colorist, and was thoroughly
imbued with his enthusiasm. 'I, too, am a painter,' I took for my motto; and, hiring a small
studio in ---- Street, I bought a large canvas, on which I sketched out a picture which cost
me much money, more time, and many anxious thoughts.

"It represented the interior of a church, at the dim end of which a marriage was being solemnized.
In the foreground, a group of ten people, in anomalous costumes, was gathered round a youth
supposed to be a rejected and despairing lover, who had fallen on the ground in a swoon. It
was very affecting, I thought.--it would be very effective. Were she to see it, she would be
stung with remorse,--she would behold the probable effects of her present indifference,--she
would relent.

"No one knew of my painting. I would keep it a profound secret, till it was a complete and
glorious success. So I worked on in my quiet studio, draping before a cheval-glass for my women,
attitudinizing and agonizing for my men, until the last touches were on, the varnish dry, and
it was all ready for the Spring Exhibition. Then came doubts and speculations. Would it be
accepted? Was it good, after all? Would Ellen like it? How would it seem among so many others?
Should I take her to look at it? Should I tell her it was mine? Who would buy it?

"I had hired my studio under an assumed name, and under an assumed name sent my picture to
the Academy. Now, when I went to see it, I found it, by some strange chance, hung next to a
beautiful portrait by Huntington. The juxtaposition gave me a new idea. I saw at once what
a villanous daub mine was, and went away oppressed with shame and a new-found modesty. Some
time after this I strolled again into the Exhibition, in the hope of finding Miss Wilson; as
I entered the vestibule, I met her coming out.

"'Oh, Mr. Martin!' she exclaimed, 'I am just going away, but I must turn back, and show you
the funniest picture! So theatrical! So distorted!'

"'Does it hang next to a lady in a purple shawl, by Huntington?'

"'Yes. Of course I might have known you would appreciate it, you are such a good critic of
pictures. Isn't it the very worst specimen of art you ever saw?'

"Can you imagine my feelings?"

"I think I can."

"This was not all, however. That afternoon I went to my now forsaken studio, previous to taking
my departure from it forever. I was carefully packing my materials, when I heard a knock at
the door. I opened it, and an elderly, shrewd-looking man walked into the room.

"'Are you T. Markham Worthington?' he asked.

"'I am a friend of his.'

"'Authorized to sell his picture in the Academy, Number ----?'

"'Yes.'

"'How much does he ask for it?'

"'How much are you willing to give?'

"'Not more than twenty-five dollars,'

"'That will do. Where shall it be sent?'

"He paid the money, wrote the address, and, bowing, left the studio. Twenty-five dollars just
paid for the frame. Who had bought my picture? I looked at the card:--

    'PARKER J. SPERRY,
    'Yankee Pie Depot,
    '126 ---- Street.'"

"Did you ever paint again?"

"Once only. I made a portrait of my sister-in-law, and sent it to her in a gorgeous frame.
I happened to go into her sitting-room, one morning, when she was out, and found my picture
hanging with its face to the wall. I turned it round. Directly across the mouth was pasted
a white label, on which I saw neatly printed in India-ink,--'Queen of the Deplorables.' I took
it home with me, and hung it in my library as a lesson to me for all future time.

"So," said Martin, throwing away the of his third cigar, "you have heard my experience. May
you profit by it! I am now in the pork-packing business, and make a handsome income for my
wife and two children. To-morrow I go to New York, to bring them into these wilds for change
of air. And now, good night."

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT AND CLARA SCHUMANN.

FLORESTAN'S STORY.

I.

In every person's memory there are niches fixed, and in those niches are sacred persons. These
are such as never obtruded themselves upon you, staining the pane through which their light
shone with their own images, but who became perfectly transparent to the word they uttered,
the song they sang, or the work they did. Such a sacred person to me is the gifted woman who
first interpreted for me Schumann's Albums. Many years ago it was, as she told me, that she
one day stood unperceived in the half-open door of her master, near the lesson-hour, and heard
him softly rendering a theme which stole far into places of her heart, which had been awaiting
its spell unconsciously. Presently he felt that there was a listener, and, hastily brushing
away a tear, he placed the music in a far corner of the room, away from his répertoire. She
confessed, that, afterward, when he was not present, she had looked on that which he evidently
desired to conceal; she saw written, in pencil, upon it, "Sternenkranz." Thenceforth shops
and catalogues were ransacked, but no "Sternenkranz" was found,--the word was evidently her
master's own fancy; so she summoned all her heroism, one day, when Herr Otto complained of
her indifference to the pieces he set before her, and informed him that she should perish at
his feet, unless he would give her "Sternenkranz." Of course her guilt was manifest, and Herr
Otto, in a spasm of anger at "prying women," as he called them, brought out the treasure, and
with it others of a very rare album of Schumann's, to which he had given no names, leaving
them to whisper their own names to each soul that could receive them: Star-Wreath it might
be to one, Bower of Lilies to another. It was the same as with that white stone which the Seer
of Patmos saw,--within it "a name written which no man knoweth, saving he that receiveth it."

This piece was to the lady a touch of consecration. Thenceforth she was known among us as "the
Schumannite woman." I verily believe that to-day, next to the divine Clara herself, she is
the best interpreter of Robert Schumann's works living; and if the love she has obtained for
him is not as universal, it is just as fervent. Many silent and holy hours have I sat communing,
through her, with him whom the Germans love to call their Tone-Poet; and the music remained
to clothe with the full vesture of romance the meagre paragraphs of the journals which hinted
his love, his sorrow, and at length his insanity and death. More, however, I longed to know
of him,--of the wedlock of these Brownings of music; and more I came to know, in the way which,
with this preface, I now proceed to relate.

A bitter December evening found me tumbling through snow and ice to accommodate a certain lyceum
in one of our Northwestern cities. Cold winds from over the Lakes made me wish that the Modern
Athens had kept its lecture-system at home; for it has always seemed to me, that, wherever
this has gone, her eastern storms have gone with it. Such ugly thoughts were shamed, however,
by the beaming welcome which shone from the face of the kindest of landladies, and at length
completely thawed out of me by the glowing fire to which she introduced me, and which animated
the coziest of rooms. Why has not some poet celebrated the experience of thawing? How deliciously
each fibre of the thawee responds to the informing ray, evolving its own sweet sensation of
release until all unite in a soft choral reverie! Carried thus, in a few moments, from the
Arctic to the Tropic, I thought, as dear Heine says, my "sweet nothing-at-all thoughts," until
a subtile breath of music won me back to life.

Heavens! what is that? A strain, strong and tender, pressed its way into the room, soothed
my temples, then broke over me in a shower of pearls. Confused, I started up; and it was some
moments before I understood that the music proceeded from the room adjoining mine in the hotel.
Not altogether unfamiliar was the theme; the priestess of whom I have spoken had once brought
it from the Holy of Holies, when she was appointed to stand; and now, remembering, I broke
out with the word, "Florestan!"

As I uttered it, the music ceased with the dreary fall of an octave. Whether the musician had
heard the exclamation, or whether such a terrible termination was in the music, I knew not:
the latter was quite probable, for, alas! such fearful Icarus-falls are not rare in poor Schumann's
music. However, I did not consider long, but, rising quickly, passed into the hall, and knocked
gently at the door of the next room.

"Enter," replied a voice, eagerly, but softly.

Enter I did, and stood before a man of about forty winters. His face was so swart that I could
see only the German in the blue eye, and at once imagined that a stream of Plutonic fire had
streamed into his veins from some more Oriental race. I stammered out an apology for my intrusion,
but told him how irresistible were such subtile threads as Schumann's "Carnival" had projected
through the walls which separated our rooms.

"Florestan," I said, "was too much for me."

Then his eye lighted up as might that of some Arctic voyager, which, having for bleak months
rested only on the glittering scales of the ice-dragon coiled about him, is suddenly filled
with the warm spread of the Polar Sea. Taking my hand, he said,--

"In me, wanderer that I am,--in me, with the Heimweh in my heart never to be stilled but in
that home where Schumann has already gone,--you see Florestan."

"Louis Boehner!"

Filled with wonder, and scarcely knowing what I did, I took a little piece of paper which he
unwrapped from many folds and placed in my hand. On it these words were written:--

     "Peace and joy attend thee, Louis Boehner! and mayst thou never
     want for such a friend as thou hast been to

     ROBERT SCHUMANN."

I could say no word; never have I felt a profounder emotion than when, at this moment, I drew
so near one whose brow Art had crowned with a living halo.

Students of German music and composers will need no word to bring before them the fulness of
this incident. But to others I may briefly mention some facts connected with Schumann's "Carnival,
or Scènes Mignonnes, on Four Notes." Not by any means representing the pure depths of Schumann's
soul, this strange medley is yet pregnant with historic associations. The composer wrote it
in his young days, stringing twenty-two little pieces on four letters composing the name of
Asch, a town of Saxony, "whither," according to Sobolewski, "Schumann's thoughts frequently
strayed, because at that time there was an object there interesting to his sensitive soul."
In the letters A, S, C, H, it must be remembered that the H in German stands for our B natural,
and S or es for E flat. The Leipsic "Neue Zeitschrift für Musik" was begun and for ten years
edited by Schumann,--in what spirit we may gather from his own words:--"The musical state of
Germany, at that time, was not very encouraging. On the stage Rossini yet reigned, and on the
piano Herz and Hünten excluded all others. And yet how few years had passed since Beethoven,
Weber, and Schubert lived among us! True, Mendelssohn's star was ascending, and there were
wonderful whispers of a certain Pole, Chopin; but it was later that these gained their lasting
influence. One day the idea took possession of our young and hot heads,--Let us not idly look
on; take hold, and reform it; take hold, and the Poetry of Art shall be again enthroned!" Then
gathered together a Protestant-league of music, whose Luther and Melancthon in one was Schumann.
The Devil at which they threw their inkstands and semi-breves was the Philistines, which is
the general term amongst German students, artists, poets, etc., for prosaic, narrow, hard,
ungenial, commonplace respectabilities. "Young Germany" was making itself felt in all coördinate
directions: forming new schools of plastic Art in Munich and Dresden,--a sharp and spirited
Bohemian literature at Frankfort, under the lead of Heine and Boerne; and now, music being
the last to yield in Germany, because most revered, as it is with religion in other countries,
a new vitality brought together in Kühne's cellar in Leipsic the revolutionists, "who talked
of Callot, Hoffmann, and Jean Paul, of Beethoven and Franz Schubert, and of the three foreign
Romanticists beyond the Rhine, the friends of the new phenomenon in French poetry, Victor Hugo."
This was the Davidsbund, or League of David (the last of the "Scènes Mignonnes" is named "Marche
des Davidsbündler contre les Philistines"). An agreeable writer in the "Weimarer Somitagsblatt"
has given us a fine sketch of this company, which we will quote.

"The head of the table was occupied by a lively, flexible man of middle age, intellectual in
conversation, and overflowing with sharp and witty remarks. He was the instructor of more than
one of the young musicians around him, who all listened to his observations with profound attention.
He was very fond of monopolizing the conversation and suffering himself to be admired. For
he called many a young, highly promising musician his pupil, and had, besides, the certain
consciousness of having moulded his daughter Clara, at that time a girl of fourteen, into a
prodigy, whose first appearance delighted the whole world, and whose subsequent artist-activity
became the pride of her native city, Leipsic. By his side sat a quiet, thoughtful young man
of twenty-three, with melancholy eyes. But lately a student in Heidelberg, he had now devoted
himself entirely to music, had removed to Leipsic and was now a pupil of the 'old schoolmaster,'
as the father of Clara Wieck liked to be called. Young Robert Schumann had good reason to be
melancholy. After long struggles, he had only been able to devote himself entirely to music
comparatively late in life, and had been obliged to pass a part of his precious youth in studies
which were as uncongenial as possible to his artist-spirit. He had finally decided for the
career of a virtuoso, and was pursuing the study of the piano with an almost morbid zeal, when
the disabling of one of his fingers, a consequence of his over-exertions, obliged him to give
up this career forever. He did not yet suspect that this accident would prove fortunate for
him in the end, by directing him to his true vocation, composition. Perhaps, too, it was the
first germ of love, in the garb of admiration for the wondrous talent of Clara, which made
young Robert so quiet and dreamy. His companions were all the more lively. There sat the eccentric
Louis Boehner,[A] who long ago had served as the model for E.T.A. Hoffmann's fantastic pictures.
Here J.P. Lyser, a painter by profession, but a poet as well, and a musician besides. Here
Carl Bauck, the indefatigable, yet unsuccessful composer of songs,--now, in his capacity of
critic, the paper bugbear of the Dresden artists. He had just returned from Italy, and believed
himself in possession of the true secret of the art of singing, the monopoly of which every
singing-master is wont to claim for himself. C.F. Becker, too, the eminent organist and industrious
collector, belonged to this circle, as well as many more young and old artists of more or less
merit and talent."[B]

[Footnote A: The "Florestan" of the "Scènes Mignonnes"; "Chiara" is Clara herself; "Eusebius"
was Robert Schumann.]

[Footnote B: See Dwight's Journal of Music, Vol. VIII. No. 3.]

Florestan then stood before me; and with him, although invisible, stood that sacred circle,
which had unconsciously borne within it the germs of so many future sorrows and glories.

"With him," said Louis Boehner, "I began life, when we were boys together at Heidelberg; with
him I stood when the dawn of a better day, which since has blessed hill and vale, was glowing
for his eye alone; this breast held his sorrows and his hopes, when he was struggling to reach
his Clara; these hands saved him when in his madness he cast himself into the Rhine; these
eyes dropped their hot tears on his eyelids when they were closed in death."

Overcome by his emotion, he sat down and sobbed aloud.

At that moment, hearing my name called loudly in the hall, I went out, and was informed that
my audience was waiting at the Lyceum, and had been waiting nearly fifteen minutes!

II.

Next morning, bright and early, I was in the artist-pilgrim's room, listening to that which
it thrilled him to tell and me to hear. And first he told me the story of Schumann's love.

The "old schoolmaster," Wieck, trained his daughter more ambitiously than judiciously; and,
indeed, none but one of the elect would ever have survived the tasks imposed on her childhood.
Indeed, she had no childhood: at the piano she was kept through all the bright days, roving
only from scale to scale, when she should have been roving from flower to flower. At length
her genius asserted itself, and she entered into her destiny; thenceforth flowers bloomed for
her out of exercise-books, and she could touch the notes which were sun-bursts, and those which
were mosses beneath them. From this training she came before the best audience in Germany,
and stood a sad-eyed, beautiful child of fourteen summers, and by acclamation was crowned the
Queen of the Piano. Franz Liszt remembered his enthusiasm of that period, and many years afterward
wrote in his extravagant way,--"When we heard Clara Wieck in Vienna, fifteen years ago, she
drew her hearers after her into her poetic world, to which she floated upward in a magical
car drawn by electric sparks and lifted by delicately prismatic, but nervously throbbing winglets."
At her performance of Beethoven's F Minor Sonata, Grillparzer was inspired to write the following
verses:--

  "A weird magician, weary of the world,
  In sullen humor locked his charms all up
  Within a diamond casket, firmly clasped,
  And threw the key into the sea, and died.
  The manikins here tried with all their might;
  In vain! no tool can pick the flinty lock;
  His magic arts still slumber, like their master.
  A shepherd's child, along the sea-shore playing,
  Watches the waves, in hurrying, idle chase.
  Dreaming and thoughtless, as young maidens are,
  She dippeth her white fingers in the flood,
  And grasps, and lifts, and holds it! 'Tis the key.
  Up springs she, up, her heart still beating higher.
  The casket glances, as with eyes, before her.
  The key fits well, up flies the lid. The spirits
  All mount aloft, then bow themselves submissive
  To this their gracious, innocent, sweet mistress,
  Who with white fingers guides them in her play."

The first, perhaps, to recognize the surpassing ability of that child was the young editor
of the "Zeitschrift." Robert Schumann. On her first appearance, he wrote,--"Others make poetry,--she
is a poem." And soon afterward,--"She early lifted the veil of Isis. The child looks calmly
up,--the man would, perhaps, be dazzled by the brilliancy."

From this moment there was an elasticity and purpose about the young composer, the secret of
which no one knew, not even himself. Like one caught in the whorls of some happy dream, who
will not pause to ask, "Whither?" he poured out before this child the half-revealed hopes striving
within him; an equal spell was woven about her ingenuous and earnest heart, and their souls
were joined in that purple morning; in due time they were to be rather clenched, through pain.
It was under this baptismal touch of Love that Schumann wrote his first sonata,--"Florestan
and Eusebius." It gained him at once a fame with all from whom fame was graceful.

In the light of this period of his life must be interpreted those wonderful little "pieces"
which mystify whilst they fascinate; without it their meaning is as strange as their names.
Often did he say,--"I can write only where my life is in unison with my works." "Listen now
to these," said Florestan, as he opened an album and struck the piano; "these are the voices
of a new life." The "Alternatives," with song, "My peace is o'er"; "Evening Thoughts"; "Impromptus,"
(whose first theme was written by Clara): these; seemed like the emotion of some newly winged
aspirant released from its chrysalis, resting on its first flower. But faster than planets
through the abysses Love moves on. Florestan ceased, and there was a long silence; and then
he told the unspeakable portion of his story by performing these two: "Sternenkranz," "Warum."
Who has ever scaled the rapture of the former, or fathomed the pathos of the latter? Every
summit implies its precipice; and the star-wreath that crowned Love was snatched at by the
Fate which soon burdened two hearts with the terrible questioning, Wherefore?

Thus: before these two were fully conscious of the love they bore each other, the shrewd eye
of old Wieck had caught a glimpse of what was coming to pass. He had educated this girl to
be an artist to bring him fame; alas, it must be confessed that he thought also of certain
prospective thalers. Willing as he was that all Leipsic should admire his daughter, he did
not like the enthusiasm of the "Zeitschrift." He then began to warn Clara against "this Faust
in modern garb, who, when he had gained one finger, would soon have the whole hand, and finally
the poor soul into the bargain!" Stupid old schoolmaster, thou shouldst have known that it
is Mephistopheles, and not Faust, that women hate!

The old man, finding that his warnings were of no avail, forbade all acquaintance, forbade
Robert's visits to his house. Then, inaugurating at once Clara's career as a virtuoso, he took
her to Vienna.

No wonder, that, when she appeared there, it was to be as the priestess of Beethoven. It takes
something besides an academy to train artists up to Beethoven. Robert was forbidden to write
to her; but the "Schwärmibriefe of Eusebius to Chiara," utterly unintelligible to the general
reader of the "Zeitschrift," who, doubtless, fancied that its editor had gone mad, were quite
clear to a certain little lady in Vienna, who consequently pined less than her father had anticipated.

"Amid all our musical soul-feasts," he writes, "there always peeps out an angel-face, which
more than resembles a certain Clara. Why art thou not with us? (Warum!) And how thou wilt have
thought of us last night, from the 'Meeresstille' to the flaming close of the A major symphony!
I also thought of thee then, Chiara, pure one, bright one, whose hands are stretched towards
Italy, whither thy longing draws thee, but thy dreamy eye still turned to us."

At length a sun-burst. In 1840 appeared the first number of Schumann's "Myrthen," whose dedication,
Seiner geliebten Braut, breaks forth in the passionate and beautiful song,--"Thou my soul,
O thou my heart!"

But this word Braut means Bride in the German sense of "affianced"; and although the joy of
this relation passed over Schumann like the breath of a Tropic, bringing forth, amongst other
gorgeous fruits, his glorious First Symphony, which some one has well called the Symphony of
Bliss, yet, ere this bliss was more than an elusive vision, the two passed through fierce wildernesses,
and drank together of bitter Marahs. "But of all this," said Florestan, "you will know, if
you have the right to know, from these,"--his "Voice from afar," and his "Night-Pieces."

Neither of us dared break the silence claimed by these exquisite pieces when they ceased; we
shook hands and parted without a word.

III.

But another mystery about the loved and lost master, which I longed to have revealed, would
not let me leave the city. In the afternoon I sought Boehner, and asked him to walk with me.
As soon as we had alluded to the one subject that bound us together, I requested him to tell
me, what had not yet been given to the world, the details of Schumann's insanity and death.

Then, as one who takes up a heavy burden to bear it, he proceeded:--

"The heart of Robert Schumann was a lyre so delicate, and with strings so sensitive, that the
effect of his pains and his joys, both always in extremes, was as if you gave an Æolian harp
to be swept now by a cold north-wind and now by a hot sirocco. His spirit wore on to the confines
of his flesh, and was not warmly covered thereby, but only veiled. Under his grief he seemed
stronger; but when his joy came, when Clara was his own, and went through Europe with him,
giving expression to the voices within, which, to him, had been unutterable,--then we saw that
the emotions which would have been safe, had they been suffered to well up gently from the
first, could come forth now only as a fierce and perhaps devastating torrent.

"Schumann saddened his intimate friends by times of insanity, five or six years before the
world at large knew anything of it. At such times he imagined himself again cruelly separated
from the patient and tender being who never left his side; and he would write pieces full of
distractions, in the midst of each of which, however, some touchingly beautiful theme would
float up, like a fair island through seething seas. Then there were longer intervals, of seven
and eight months, in which he was perfectly sane; at which times he would write with a wearing
persistence which none could restrain: he would put our advice aside gently, saying,--'A long
life is before me; but it must be lived in a few years.' And, indeed, the works which have
reached farthest into hearts that loved him most deeply date from these times. I remember,
that, when he sat down to compose his last symphony, he said,--'It is almost accomplished;
but the invisible mansion needs another chamber.'

"Once when I was at Frankfort, Clara Schumann sent me this word: 'Hasten.' I left all my affairs,
and came to watch for many months beside this beloved one. It was not a wild delirium which
had taken possession of him; the only fit of that kind was that in which he tried to drown
himself in the Rhine,--at the time when the papers got hold of the terrible secret. His insanity
was manifested in his conviction that he was occupied by the souls of Beethoven and Schubert.
Much in the manner of your American mediums, he would be seized by a controlling power,--would
snatch a pencil, and dash out upon paper the wildest discords. These we would play for him,
at his request, from morning till night,--during much of which time he would seem to be in
a happy trance. Of this music no chord or melody was true; they were jangling memories of his
earlier works.

"One day he called his wife and myself, and took our hands in his own:--'Beethoven says that
my earthly music is over; it cannot be understood here; he writes for angels, and I shall write
for them.' Then, turning to me, he said,--'Louis, my friend, farewell! This is my last prayer
for you,'--handing me the paper which I have shown you; 'and now leave us, to come again and
kiss me when I am cold.'

"Then I left him alone with his Clara.

"A month from that time, Schumann was no more."

       *       *       *       *       *

Out under the glowing sunset, I clasped hands parting with Louis Boehner, and said, as my voice
would let me.--"Take this paper, and when you would have a friend, such as you have been to
Robert Schumann, come and help me to be that friend."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FREEDMEN AT PORT ROYAL.

Two questions are concerned in the social problem of our time. One is, Will the people of African
descent work for a living? and the other is, Will they fight for their freedom? An affirmative
answer to these must be put beyond any fair dispute before they will receive permanent security
in law or opinion. Whatever may be the theses of philosophers or the instincts of the justest
men, the general sense of mankind is not likely to accord the rights of complete citizenship
to a race of paupers, or to hesitate in imposing compulsory labor on those who have not industry
sufficient to support themselves. Nor, in the present development of human nature, is the conscience
of great communities likely to be so pervasive and controlling as to restrain them from disregarding
the rights of those whom it is perfectly safe to injure, because they have not the pluck to
defend themselves. Sentiment may be lavished upon them in poetry and tears, but it will all
be wasted. Like all unprivileged classes before them, they will have their full recognition
as citizens and men when they have vindicated their title to be an estate of the realm, and
not before. Let us, then, take the world as we find it, and try this people accordingly. But
it is not pertinent to any practical inquiry of our time to predict what triumphs in art, literature,
or government they are to accomplish, or what romance is to glow upon their history. No Iliad
may be written of them and their woes. No Plutarch may gather the lives of their heroes. No
Vandyck may delight to warm his canvas with their forms. How many or how few astronomers like
Banneker, chieftains like Toussaint, orators like Douglass they may have, it is not worth while
to conjecture. It is better to dismiss these fanciful discussions. To vindicate their title
to a fair chance in the world as a free people, it is sufficient, and alone sufficient, that
it appear to reasonable minds that they are in good and evil very much like the rest of mankind,
and that they are endowed in about the same degree with the conservative and progressive elements
of character common to ordinary humanity.

It is given to the people of this country and time, could they realise it, to make a new chapter
of human experience. The past may suggest, but it can do little either in directing or deterring.
There is nothing in the gloomy vaticinations of Tocqueville, wise and benevolent as he is,
which should be permitted to darken our future. The mediæval antagonisms of races, when Christianity
threw but a partial light over mankind, and before commerce had unfolded the harmony of interests
among people of diverse origin or condition, determine no laws which will fetter the richer
and more various development of modern life. Nor do the results of emancipation in the West
Indies, more or less satisfactory as they may be, afford any measure of the progress which
opens before our enfranchised masses. The insular and contracted life of the colonies, cramped
also as they were by debt and absenteeism, has no parallel in the grand currents of thought
and activity ever sweeping through the continent on which our problem is to be solved.

In the light of these views, the attempt shall be made to report truthfully upon the freedmen
at Port Royal. A word, however, as to the name. Civilization, in its career, may often be traced
in the nomenclatures of successive periods. These people were first called contrabands at Fortress
Monroe; but at Port Royal, where they were next introduced to us in any considerable number,
they were generally referred to as freedmen. These terms are milestones in our progress; and
they are yet to be lost in the better and more comprehensive designation of citizens, or, when
discrimination is convenient, citizens of African descent.

The enterprise for the protection and development of the freedmen at Port Royal has won its
way to the regard of mankind. The best minds of Europe, as well as the best friends of the
United States, like Cairnes and Gasparin, have testified much interest in its progress. An
English periodical of considerable merit noticed at some length "Mr. Pierce's Ten Thousand
Clients." In Parliament, Earl Russell noted it in its incipient stage, as a reason why England
should not intervene in American affairs. The "Revue des Deux Mondes," in a recent number,
characterizes the colony as "that small pacific army, far more important in the history of
civilization than all the military expeditions despatched from time to time since the commencement
of the civil war."

       *       *       *       *       *

No little historical interest covers the region to which this account belongs. Explorations
of the coast now known as that of the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida, involving the rival
pretensions of Spain and France, were made in the first half of the sixteenth century. They
were conducted by Ponce de Leon, Vasquez, Verrazani, and Soto, in search of the fountain of
perpetual youth, or to extend empire by right of discovery. But no permanent settlement by
way of colony or garrison was attempted until 1562.

In that year,--the same in which he drew his sword for his faith, and ten years before the
Massacre of St. Bartholomew, in which he fell the most illustrious victim,--Admiral Coligny,
the great Protestant chief, anxious to found beyond the seas a refuge for persecuted Huguenots,
fitted out the expedition of Jean Ribault, which, after a voyage of over three months across
the ocean and northward along the coast, cast anchor on May 27th in the harbor of Port Royal,
and gave it the name which it retains to this day. That year was also to be ever memorable
for another and far different enterprise, which was destined to be written in dark and perpetual
lines on human history. Then it was that John Hawkins sailed for Africa in quest of the first
cargo of negroes ever brought to the New World. The expedition of Ribault was the first visit
of Europeans to Port Royal or to any part of South Carolina, and the garrison left by him was
the first settlement under their auspices ever made on this continent north of Mexico. There
is not space or need to detail here the mutiny and suffering of this military colony, their
abandonment of the post, the terrible voyage homeward, or the perseverance of Coligny in his
original purpose. Nor is it within the compass of this narrative to recount the fortunes of
the second garrison, which was founded on the St. John's, the visit of John Hawkins in 1565
with timely relief, the return of Ribault from France and his sad fate, the ferocity of Melendez
against all heretic Frenchmen, and the avenging chivalry of Dominic de Gourges. The student
is baffled in attempts to fix localities for the deeds and explorations of this period, even
with the help of the several accounts and the drawings of Le Moyne; and, besides, these later
vicissitudes did not involve any permanent occupation as far north as Port Royal, that region
having been abandoned by the French, and being then visited by the Spanish only for trade or
adventure.

Some merchants of Barbados, in 1663, sent William Hilton and other commissioners to Florida,
then including Port Royal, to explore the country with reference to an emigration thither.
Hilton's Narration, published in London the year after, mentions St. Ellens as one of the points
visited, meaning St. Helena, but probably including the Sea Islands under that name. The natives
were found to speak many Spanish words, and to be familiar enough with the report of guns not
to be alarmed by it. The commissioners, whose explorations were evidently prompted by motives
of gain, close a somewhat glowing description of the country by saying, "And we could wish
that all they that want a happy settlement of our English nation were well transported thither."

Hitherto England had borne no part in exploring this region. But, relieved of her civil wars
by the Restoration, she began to seek colonial empire on the southern coast of North America.
In 1663, Charles II. granted a charter to Clarendon, Monk, Shaftsbury,--each famous in the
conflicts of those times,--and to their associates, as proprietors of Carolina. The genius
of John Locke, more fitted for philosophy than affairs, devised a constitution for the colony,--an
idle work, as it proved. In 1670, the first emigrants, under Governor William Sayle, arrived
at Port Royal, with the purpose to remain there; but, disturbed probably with apprehensions
of Spanish incursions from Florida, they removed to the banks of the Ashley, and, after another
change of site, founded Charleston.

In 1682, a colony from Scotland under Lord Cardross was founded at Port Royal, but was driven
away four years later by the Spanish. No permanent settlement of the Beaufort district appears
to have succeeded until 1700. This district is divided into four parishes, St. Peter's, St.
Luke's, St. Helena, and Prince William, being fifty-eight miles long and thirty-two broad,
and containing 1,224,960 acres. St. Helena parish includes the islands of St. Helena, Ladies,
Port Royal, Paris, and a few smaller islands, which, together with Hilton Head, make the district
occupied by our forces. The largest and most populous of these islands is St. Helena, being
fifteen miles long and six or seven broad, containing fifty plantations and three thousand
negroes, and perhaps more since the evacuation of Edisto. Port Royal is two-thirds or three-quarters
the size of St. Helena, Ladies half as large, and Hilton Head one-third as large. Paris, or
Parry, has five plantations, and Coosaw, Morgan, Cat, Cane, and Barnwell have each one or two.
Beaufort is the largest town in the district of that name, and the only one at Port Royal in
our possession. Its population, black and white, in time of peace may have been between two
and three thousand. The first lots were granted in 1717. Its Episcopal church was built in
1720. Its library was instituted in 1802, had increased in 1825 to six or eight hundred volumes,
and when our military occupation began contained about thirty-five hundred.

The origin of the name Port Royal, given to a harbor at first and since to an island, has already
been noted. The name of St. Helena, applied to a sound, a parish, and an island, originated
probably with the Spaniards, and was given by them in tribute to Saint Helena, the mother of
Constantine the Great, whose day in the calendar is August 18th. Broad River is the equivalent
of La Grande, which was given by Ribault. Hilton Head may have been derived from Captain Hilton,
who came from Barbados. Coosaw is the name of a tribe of Indians. Beaufort is likely to have
been so called for Henry, Duke of Beauford, one of the lord proprietors, while Carolina was
a province of Great Britain.

The Beaufort District is not invested with any considerable Revolutionary romance. In 1779,
the British forces holding Savannah sent two hundred troops with a howitzer and two field-pieces
to Beaufort. Four companies of militia from Charleston with two field-pieces, reinforced by
a few volunteers from Beaufort, repulsed and drove them off. The British made marauding incursions
from Charleston in 1782, and are said to have levied a military contribution on St. Helena
and Port Royal Islands.

There are the remains of Indian mounds and ancient forts on the islands. One of these last,
it is said, can be traced on Paris Island, and is claimed by some antiquaries to be the Charles
Fort built by Ribault. There are the well-preserved walls of one upon the plantation of John
J. Smith on Port Royal Island, a few miles south of Beaufort, now called Camp Saxton, and recently
occupied by Colonel Higginson's regiment. It is built of cemented oyster-shells. Common remark
refers to it as a Spanish fort, but it is likely to be of English construction. The site of
Charles Fort is claimed for Beaufort, Lemon Island, Paris Island, and other points.

The Sea Islands are formed by the intersection of the creeks and arms of the sea. They have
a uniform level, are without any stones, and present a rather monotonous and uninteresting
scenery, spite of the raptures of French explorers. The creeks run up into the islands at numerous
points, affording facilities for transportation by flats and boats to the buildings which are
usually near them. The soil is of a light, sandy mould, and yields in the best seasons a very
moderate crop, say fifteen bushels of corn and one hundred or one hundred and thirty pounds
of ginned cotton to the acre,--quite different from the plantations in Mississippi and Texas,
where an acre produces five or six hundred pounds. The soil is not rich enough for the cultivated
grasses, and one finds but little turf. The coarse saline grasses, gathered in stacks, furnish
the chief material for manure. The long-fibred cotton peculiar to the region is the result
of the climate, which is affected by the action of the salt water upon the atmosphere by means
of the creeks which permeate the land in all directions. The seed of this cotton, planted on
the upland, will produce in a few years the cotton of coarser texture; and the seed of the
latter, planted on the islands, will in a like period produce the finer staple. The Treasury
Department secured eleven hundred thousand pounds from the islands occupied by our forces,
including Edisto, being the crop, mostly unginned, and gathered in storehouses, when our military
occupation began.

The characteristic trees are the live-oak, its wood almost as heavy as lignum-vitæ, the trunk
not high, but sometimes five or six feet in diameter, and extending its crooked branches far
over the land, with the long, pendulous, funereal moss adhering to them,--and the palmetto,
shooting up its long, spongy stem thirty or forty feet, unrelieved by vines or branches, with
a disproportionately small cap of leaves at the summit, the most ungainly of trees, albeit
it gives a name and coat-of-arms to the State. Besides these, are the pine, the red and white
oak, the cedar, the bay, the gum, the maple, and the ash. The soil is luxuriant with an undergrowth
of impenetrable vines. These interlacing the trees, supported also by shrubs, of which the
cassena is the most distinguished variety, and faced with ditches, make the prevailing fences
of the plantations. The hedges are adorned in March and April with the yellow jessamine, (jelseminum,)--the
cross-vine (bignonia,) with its mass of rich red blossoms,--the Cherokee rose, (loevigata,)
spreading out in long waving wreaths of white,--and, two months later, the palmetto royal,
(yucca gloriosa,) which protects the fence with its prickly leaves, and delights the eyes with
its pyramid-like clusters of white flowers. Some of these trees and shrubs serve a utilitarian
end in art and medicine. The live-oak is famous in shipbuilding. The palmetto, or cabbage-palmetto,
as it is called, resists destruction by worms, and is used for facing wharves. It was employed
to protect Fort Moultrie in 1776, when bombarded by the British fleet; and the cannon-balls
were buried in its spongy substance. The moss (tillandsia usneoides) served to calk the rude
vessel of the first French colonists, longing for home. It may be used for bedding after its
life has been killed by boiling water, and for the subsistence of cattle when destitute of
other food. The cassena is a powerful diuretic.

The game and fish, which are both abundant and of desirable kinds, and to the pursuit of which
the planters were much addicted, are described in Eliot's book. Russell's "Diary" may also
be consulted in relation to fishing for devil and drum.

The best dwellings in Beaufort are capacious, with a piazza on the first and second stories,
through each of which runs a large hall to admit a free circulation of air. Only one, however,
appeared to have been built under the supervision of a professional architect. Those on the
plantations, designed for the planters or overseers, were, with a few exceptions, of a very
mean character, and a thriving mechanic in New England would turn his back on them as unfit
to live in. Their yards are without turf, having as their best feature a neighboring grove
of orange-trees. One or two dwellings only appear to be ancient. Indeed, they are not well
enough built to last long. The estates upon Edisto Island are of a more patrician character,
and are occasionally surrounded by spacious flower-gardens and ornamental trees fancifully trimmed.

The names of the planters indicated mainly an English origin, although some may be traced to
Huguenot families who sought a refuge here from the religious persecutions of France.

The deserted houses were generally found strewn with religious periodicals, mainly Baptist
magazines. This characteristic of Southern life has been elsewhere observed in the progress
of our army. Occasionally some book denouncing slavery as criminal and ruinous was found among
those left behind. One of these was Hewatt's history of South Carolina, published in 1779,
and reprinted in Carroll's collection. Another was Gregoire's vindication of the negro race
and tribute to its distinguished examples, translated by Warden in 1810. These people seem,
indeed, to have had light enough to see the infinite wrong of the system, and it is difficult
to believe them entirely sincere in their passionate defence of it. Their very violence, when
the moral basis of slavery is assailed, seems to be that of a man who distrusts the rightfulness
of his daily conduct, has resolved to persist in it, and therefore hates most of all the prophet
who comes to confront him for his misdeeds, and, if need be, to publish them to mankind.

Well-authenticated instances of cruelty to slaves were brought to notice without being sought
for. The whipping-tree is now often pointed out, still showing the place where it was worn
by the rope which bound the sufferer to it. On the plantation where my own quarters were was
a woman who had been so beaten when approaching the trials of maternity as to crush out the
life of the unborn child. But this planter had one daughter who looked with horror on the scenes
of which she was the unwilling witness. She declared to her parents and sisters that it was
hell to live in such a place. She was accustomed to advise the negroes how best to avoid being
whipped. When the war began, she assured them that the story of the masters that the Yankees
were going to send them to Cuba was all a lie. Surely a kind Providence will care for this
noble girl! This war will, indeed, emancipate others than blacks from bonds which marriage
and kindred have involved. But it is unpleasant to dwell on these painful scenes of the past,
constant and authentic as they are; and they hardly concern the practical question which now
presses for a solution. Nor in referring to them is there any need of injustice or exaggeration.
Human nature has not the physical endurance or moral persistence to keep up a perpetual and
universal cruelty; and there are fortunate slaves who never received a blow from their masters.
Besides, there was less labor exacted and less discipline imposed on the loosely managed plantations
of the Sea Islands than in other districts where slave-labor was better and more profitably
organized and directed.

The capture of Hilton Head and Bay Point by the navy, November 7th, 1861, was followed by the
immediate military occupation of the Sea Islands. In the latter part of December, the Secretary
of the Treasury, Mr. Chase, whose foresight as a statesman and humane disposition naturally
turned his thoughts to the subject, deputed a special agent to visit this district for the
purpose of reporting upon the condition of the negroes who had been abandoned by the white
population, and of suggesting some plan for the organization of their labor and the promotion
of their general well-being. The agent, leaving New York January 13th, 1862, reached that city
again on his way to Washington on the 13th of February, having in the mean time visited a large
number of the plantations, and talked familiarly with the negroes in their cabins. The results
of his observations, in relation to the condition of the people, their capacities and wishes,
the culture of their crops, and the best mode of administration, on the whole favorable, were
embodied in a report. The plan proposed by him recommended the appointment of superintendents
to act as guides of the negroes and as local magistrates, with an adequate corps of teachers.
It was accepted by the Secretary with a full indorsement, and its execution intrusted to the
same agent. The agent presented the subject to several members of Congress, with whom he had
a personal acquaintance, but, though they listened respectfully, they seemed either to dread
the magnitude of the social question, or to feel that it was not one with which they as legislators
were called upon immediately to deal. The Secretary himself, and Mr. Olmsted, then connected
with the Sanitary Commission, alone seemed to grasp it, and to see the necessity of immediate
action. It is doubtful if any member of the Cabinet, except Mr. Chase, took then any interest
in the enterprise, though it has since been fostered by the Secretary of War. At the suggestion
of the Secretary, the President appointed an interview with the agent. Mr. Lincoln, who was
then chafing under a prospective bereavement, listened for a few moments, and then said, somewhat
impatiently, that he did not think he ought to be troubled with such details,--that there seemed
to be an itching to get negroes into our lines; to which the agent replied, that these negroes
were within them by the invitation of no one, being domiciled there before we commenced occupation.
The President then wrote and handed to the agent the following card:--

"I shall be obliged if the Sec. of the Treasury will in his discretion give Mr. Pierce such
instructions in regard to Port Royal contrabands as may seem judicious.

"A. LINCOLN.

"Feb. 15, 1862."

The President, so history must write it, approached the great question slowly and reluctantly;
and in February, 1862, he little dreamed of the proclamations he was to issue in the September
and January following. Perhaps that slowness and reluctance were well, for thereby it was given
to this people to work out their own salvation, rather than to be saved by any chief or prophet.

Notwithstanding the plan of superintendents was accepted, there were no funds wherewith to
pay them. At this stage the "Educational Commission," organized in Boston on the 7th of February,
and the "Freedmen's Relief Association," organized in New York on the 20th of the same month,
gallantly volunteered to pay both superintendents and teachers, and did so until July 1st,
when the Government, having derived a fund from the sale of confiscated cotton left in the
territory by the Rebels, undertook the payment of the superintendents, the two societies, together
with another organized in Philadelphia on the 3d of March, and called the "Port Royal Relief
Committee," providing for the support of the teachers.

When these voluntary associations sprang into being to save an enterprise which otherwise must
have failed, no authoritative assurance had been given as to the legal condition of the negroes.
The Secretary, in a letter to the agent, had said, that, after being received into our service,
they could not, without great injustice, be restored to their masters, and should therefore
be fitted to become self-supporting citizens. The President was reported to have said freely,
in private, that negroes who were within our lines, and had been employed by the Government,
should be protected in their freedom. No official assurance of this had, however, been given;
and its absence disturbed the societies in their formation. At one meeting of the Boston society
action was temporarily arrested by the expression of an opinion by a gentleman present, that
there was no evidence showing that these people, when educated, would not be the victims of
some unhappy compromise. A public meeting in Providence, for their relief, is said to have
broken up without action, because of a speech from a furloughed officer of a regiment stationed
at Port Royal, who considered such a result the probable one. But the societies, on reflection,
wisely determined to do what they could to prepare them to become self-supporting citizens,
in the belief, that, when they had become such, no Government could ever be found base enough
to turn its back upon them. These associations, it should be stated, have been managed by persons
of much consideration in their respective communities, of unostentatious philanthropy, but
of energetic and practical benevolence, hardly one of whom has ever filled or been a candidate
for a political office.

There was a pleasant interview at this time which may fitly be mentioned. The venerable Josiah
Quincy, just entered on his ninety-first year, hearing of the enterprise, desired to see one
who had charge of it. I went to his chamber, where he had been confined to his bed for many
weeks with a fractured limb. He talked like a patriot who read the hour and its duty. He felt
troubled lest adequate power had not been given to protect the enterprise,--said that but for
his disability he should be glad to write something about it, but that he was living "the postscript
of his life"; and as we parted, he gave his hearty benediction to the work and to myself. Restored
in a measure to activity, he is still spared to the generation which fondly cherishes his old
age; and recently, at the organization of the Union Club, he read to his fellow-citizens, gathering
close about him and hanging on his speech, words of counsel and encouragement.

On the morning of the 3d of March, 1862, the first delegation of superintendents and teachers,
fifty-three in all, of whom twelve were women, left the harbor of New York, on board the United
States steam-transport Atlantic, arriving at Beaufort on the 9th. It was a voyage never to
be forgotten. The enterprise was new and strange, and it was not easy to predict its future.
Success or defeat might be in store for us; and we could only trust in God that our strength
would be equal to our responsibilities. As the colonists approached the shores of South Carolina,
they were addressed by the agent in charge, who told them the little he had learned of their
duties, enjoined patience and humanity, impressed on them the greatness of their work, the
results of which were to cheer or dishearten good men, to settle, perhaps, one way or the other,
the social problem of the age,--assuring them that never did a vessel bear a colony on a nobler
mission, not even the Mayflower, when she conveyed the Pilgrims to Plymouth, that it would
be a poorly written history which should omit their individual names, and that, if faithful
to their trust, there would come to them the highest of all recognitions ever accorded to angels
or to men, in this life or the next,--"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these,
ye have done it unto Me."

This first delegation of superintendents and teachers were distributed during the first fortnight
after their arrival at Beaufort, and at its close they had all reached their appointed posts.
They took their quarters in the deserted houses of the planters. These had all left on the
arrival of our army, only four white men, citizens of South Carolina, remaining, and none of
those being slaveholders, except one, who had only two or three slaves. Our operations were,
therefore, not interfered with by landed proprietors who were loyal or pretended to be so.
The negroes had, in the mean time, been without persons to guide and care for them, and had
been exposed to the careless and conflicting talk of soldiers who chanced to meet them. They
were also brought in connection with some employés of the Government, engaged in the collection
of cotton found upon the plantations, none of whom were doing anything for their education,
and most of whom were in favor of leasing the plantations and the negroes upon them as adscripti
gleboe looking forward to their restoration to their masters at the close of the war. They
were uncertain as to the intentions of the Yankees, and were wondering at the confusion, as
they called it. They were beginning to plant corn in their patches, but were disinclined to
plant cotton, regarding it as a badge of servitude. No schools had been opened, except one
at Beaufort, which had been kept a few weeks by two freedmen, one bearing the name of John
Milton, under the auspices of the Rev. Dr. Peck. This is not the place to detail the obstacles
we met with, one after another overcome,--the calumnies and even personal violence to which
we were subjected. These things occurred at an early period of our struggle, when the nation
was groping its way to light, and are not likely to occur again. Let unworthy men sleep in
the oblivion they deserve, and let others of better natures, who were then blind, but now see,
not be taunted with their inconsiderate acts. The nickname of Gibeonites, applied to the colonists,
may, however, be fitly remembered. It may now justly claim rank with the honored titles of
Puritan and Methodist. The higher officers of the army were uniformly respectful and disposed
to coöperation. One of these may properly be mentioned. Our most important operations were
in the district under the command of Brigadier-General Isaac I. Stevens, an officer whose convictions
were not supposed to be favorable to the enterprise, and who, during the political contest
of 1860, had been the chairman of the National Breckinridge Committee. But such was his honor
as a gentleman, and his sense of the duty of subordination to the wishes of the Government,
that his personal courtesies and official aid were never wanting. He received his mortal wound
at Chantilly, Virginia, on the first of September following, and a braver and abler officer
has not fallen in the service.

Notwithstanding our work was commenced six weeks too late, and other hindrances occurred, detailed
in the second report of the agent, some eight thousand acres of esculents,--a fair supply of
food,--and some four thousand five hundred acres of cotton (after a deduction for over-estimates)
were planted. This was done upon one hundred and eighty-nine plantations, on which were nine
thousand and fifty people, of whom four thousand four hundred and twenty-nine were field-hands,
made up of men, women, and children, and equivalent, in the usual classification and estimate
of the productive capacity of laborers, to three thousand eight hundred and five and one-half
full hands. The cotton-crop produced will not exceed sixty-five thousand pounds of ginned cotton.
Work enough was done to have produced five hundred thousand pounds in ordinary times; but the
immaturity of the pod, resulting from the lateness of the planting, exposed it to the ravages
of the frost and the worm. Troops being ordered North, after the disasters of the Peninsular
campaign, Edisto was evacuated in the middle of July, and thus one thousand acres of esculents,
and nearly seven hundred acres of cotton, the cultivation of which had been finished, were
abandoned. In the autumn, Major-General Mitchell required forty tons of corn-fodder and seventy-eight
thousand pounds of corn in the ear, for army-forage. These are but some of the adverse influences
to which the agricultural operations were subjected.

It is fitting here that I should bear my testimony to the superintendents and teachers commissioned
by the associations. There was as high a purpose and devotion among them as in any colony that
ever went forth to bear the evangel of civilization. Among them were some of the choicest young
men of New England, fresh from Harvard, Yale, and Brown, from the divinity-schools of Andover
and Cambridge,--men of practical talent and experience. There were some of whom the world was
scarce worthy, and to whom, whether they are among the living or the dead, I delight to pay
the tribute of my respect and admiration.

Four of the original delegation have died. William S. Clark died at Boston, April 25th, 1863,
a consumptive when he entered on the work, which he was obliged to leave six months before
his death. He was a faithful and conscientious teacher. Though so many months had passed since
he left these labors, their fascination was such that he dwelt fondly upon them in his last days.

The colony was first broken by the death of Francis E. Barnard, at St. Helena Island, October
18th, 1862. He was devoted, enthusiastic,--and though not fitted, as it at first appeared,
for the practical duties of a superintendent, yet even in this respect disappointing me entirely.
He was an evangelist, also, and he preached with more unction than any other the gospel of
freedom,--always, however, enforcing the duties of industry and self-restraint. He was never
sad, but always buoyant and trustful. He and a comrade were the first to be separated from
the company, while at Hilton Head, and before the rest went to Beaufort,--being assigned to
Edisto, which had been occupied less than a month, and was a remote and exposed point; but
he went fearlessly and without question. The evacuation of Edisto in July, the heat, and the
labor involved in bringing away and settling his people at the village on St. Helena Island,
a summer resort of the former residents, where were some fifty vacant houses, were too much
for him. His excessive exertions brought on malarious fever. This produced an unnatural excitement,
and at mid-day, under a hot sun, he rode about to attend to his people. He died,--men, women,
and children, for whom he had toiled, filling the house with their sobs during his departing
hours. His funeral was thronged by them, his coffin strewn with flowers which they and his
comrades had plucked, and then his remains were borne to his native town, where burial-rites
were again performed in the old church of Dorchester. Read his published journal, and find
how a noble youth can live fourscore years in a little more than one score. One high privilege
was accorded to him. He lived to hear of the immortal edict of the twenty-second of September,
by which the freedom of his people was to be secured for all time to come.

Samuel D. Phillips was a young man of much religions feeling, though he never advertised himself
as having it, and a devout communicant of the Episcopal Church. He was a gentleman born and
bred, inheriting the quality as well as adding to it by self-discipline. He had good business-capacity,
never complained of inconveniences, was humane, yet not misled by sentiment, and he gave more
of his time, otherwise unoccupied, to teaching than almost any other superintendent. I was
recently asking the most advanced pupils of a school on St. Helena who first taught them their
letters, and the frequent answer was, "Mr. Phillips." He was at home in the autumn for a vacation,
was at the funeral of Barnard in Dorchester, and though at the time in imperfect health, he
hastened back to his charge, feeling that the death of Barnard, whose district was the same
as his own, rendered his immediate return necessary to the comfort of his people. He went,--but
his health never came back to him. His quarters were in the same house where Barnard had died,
and in a few days, on the 5th of December, he followed him. He was tended in his sickness by
the negroes, and one day, having asked that his pillow might be turned, he uttered the words,
"Thank God," and died. There was the same grief as at Barnard's death, the same funeral-rites
at the St. Helena Church, and his remains were borne North to bereaved relatives.

Daniel Bowe was an alumnus of Yale College, and a student of the Andover Theological Seminary,
not yet graduated when he turned from his professional studies at the summons of Christian
duty. He labored faithfully as a superintendent, looking after the physical, moral, and educational
interests of his people. He had a difficult post, was overburdened with labor, and perhaps
had not the faculty of taking as good care of himself as was even consistent with his duties.
He came home in the summer, commended the enterprise and his people to the citizens and students
of Andover, and returned. He afterwards fell ill, and, again coming North, died October 30th,
a few days after reaching New York. The young woman who was betrothed to him, but whom he did
not live to wed, has since his death sought this field of labor; and on my recent visit I found
her upon the plantation where he had resided, teaching the children whom he had first taught,
and whose parents he had guided to freedom. Truly, the age of Christian romance has not passed
away!

       *       *       *       *       *

On the first of July, 1862, the administration of affairs at Port Royal having been transferred
from the Treasury to the War Department, the charge of the freedmen passed into the hands of
Brigadier-General Rufus Saxton, a native of Massachusetts, who in childhood had breathed the
free air of the valley of the Connecticut, a man of sincere and humane nature; and under his
wise and benevolent care they still remain. The Sea Islands, and also Fernandina and St. Augustine
in Florida, are within our lines in the Department of the South, and some sixteen or eighteen
thousand negroes are supposed to be under his jurisdiction.

The negroes of the Sea Islands, when found by us, had become an abject race, more docile and
submissive than those of any other locality. The native African was of a fierce and mettlesome
temper, sullen and untamable. The master was obliged to abate something of the usual rigor
in dealing with the imported slaves. A tax-commissioner, now at Port Royal, and formerly a
resident of South Carolina, told me that a native African belonging to his father, though a
faithful man, would perpetually insist on doing his work in his own way, and being asked the
threatening question, "A'n't you going to mind?" would answer, with spirit, "No, a'n't gwine
to!" and the master desisted! Severe discipline drove the natives to the wilderness, or involved
a mutilation of person which destroyed their value for proprietary purposes. In 1816, eight
hundred of these refugees were living free in the swamps and everglades of Florida. There the
ancestors of some of them had lived ever since the early part of the eighteenth century, rearing
families, carrying on farms, and raising cattle. They had two hundred and fifty men fit to
bear arms, led by chiefs brave and skilful. The story of the Exiles of Florida is one of painful
interest. The testimony of officers of the army who served against them is, that they were
more dangerous enemies than the Indians, fighting the most skilfully and standing the longest.
The tax-commissioner before referred to, who was a resident of Charleston during the trial
and execution of the confederates of Denmark Vesey, relates that one of the native Africans,
when called to answer to the charge against him, haughtily responded,--"I was a prince in my
country, and have as much right to be free as you!" The Carolinians were so awe-struck by his
defiance that they transported him. Another, at the execution, turned indignantly to a comrade
about to speak, and said, "Die silent, as I do!" and the man hushed. The early newspapers of
Georgia recount the disturbances on the plantations occasioned by these native Africans, and
even by their children, being not until the third generation reduced to obedient slaves.

Nowhere has the deterioration of the negroes from their native manhood been carried so far
as on these Sea Islands,--a deterioration due to their isolation from the excitements of more
populous districts, the constant surveillance of the overseers, and their intermarriage with
each other, involving a physical degeneracy with which inexorable Nature punishes disobedience
to her laws. The population with its natural increase was sufficient for the cultivation of
the soil under existing modes, and therefore no fresh blood was admitted, such as is found
pouring from the Border States into the sugar and cotton regions of the Southwest. This unmanning
and depravation of the native character had been carried so far, that the special agent, on
his first exploration, in January, 1862, was obliged to confess the existence of a general
disinclination to military service on the part of the negroes; though it is true that even
then instances of courage and adventure appeared, which indicated that the more manly feeling
was only latent, to be developed under the inspiration of events. And so, let us rejoice, it
has been. You may think yourself wise, as you note the docility of a subject race; but in vain
will you attempt to study it until the burden is lifted. The slave is unknown to all, even
to himself, while the bondage lasts. Nature is ever a kind mother. She soothes us with her
deceits, not in surgery alone, when the sufferer, else writhing in pain, is transported with
the sweet delirium, but she withholds from the spirit the sight of her divinity until her opportunity
has come. Not even Tocqueville or Olmsted, much less the master, can measure the capacities
and possibilities of the slave, until the slave himself is transmuted to a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

My recent visit to Port Royal extended from March 25th to May 10th. It was pleasant to meet
the first colonists, who still toiled at their posts, and specially grateful to receive the
welcome of the freedmen, and to note the progress they had made. There were interesting scenes
to fill the days. I saw an aged negro, Cæsar by name, not less than one hundred years old,
who had left children in Africa, when stolen away. The vicissitudes of such a life were striking,--a
free savage in the wilds of his native land, a prisoner on a slave-ship, then for long years
a toiling slave, now again a freeman under the benign edict of the President,--his life covering
an historic century. A faithful and industrious negro, Old Simon, as we called him, hearing
of my arrival, rode over to see me, and brought me a present of two or three quarts of pea-nuts
and some seventeen eggs. I had an interview with Don Carlos, whom I had seen in May, 1862,
at Edisto, the faithful attendant upon Barnard, and who had been both with him and Phillips
during their last hours,--now not less than seventy years of age, and early in life a slave
in the Alston family, where he had known Theodosia Burr, the daughter of Aaron Burr, and wife
of Governor Alston. He talked intelligently upon her personal history and her mysterious fate.
He had known John Pierpont, when a teacher in the family of Colonel Alston, and accompanying
the sons on their way North to college after the completion of their preparatory studies. Pierpont
was a classmate of John C. Calhoum at Yale College, and, upon graduating, went South as a private
tutor.

Aunt Phillis was not likely to be overlooked,--an old woman, with much power of expression,
living on the plantation where my quarters had formerly been. The attack on Charleston was
going on, and she said, "If you're as long beating Secesh everywhere as you have been in taking
the town, guess it'll take you some time!" Indeed, the negroes had somewhat less confidence
in our power than at first, on account of our not having followed up the capture of Bay Point
and Hilton Head. The same quaint old creature, speaking of the disregard of the masters for
the feelings of the slaves, said, with much emphasis, "They thought God was dead!"

I visited Barnwell Island, the only plantation upon which is that of Trescot, formerly Secretary
of Legation at London, a visit to whom Russell describes in his "Diary." But the mansion is
not now as when Russell saw it. Its large library is deposited in the Smithsonian Institution
at Washington. Its spacious rooms in the first and second stories, together with the attics,
are all filled with the families of negro refugees. From this point, looking across the water,
we could see a cavalry-picket of the Rebels. The superintendent who had charge of the plantation,
and accompanied me, was Charles Follen, an inherited name, linked with the struggles for freedom
in both hemispheres.

The negro graveyards occasionally attracted me from the road. They are usually in an open field,
under a clump of some dozen or twenty trees, perhaps live-oaks, and not fenced. There may be
fifty or a hundred graves, marked only by sticks eighteen inches or two feet high and about
as large as the wrist. Mr. Olmsted saw some stones in a negro graveyard at Savannah, erected
by the slaves, and bearing rather illiterate inscriptions; but I never succeeded in finding
any but wooden memorials, not even at Beaufort. Only in one case could I find an inscription,
and that was in a burial-place on Ladies Island. There was a board at the head of the grave,
shaped something like an ordinary gravestone, about three feet high and six inches wide. The
inscription was as follows:--

  OLd Jiw
  de PArt his
  Life on the
  2 of WAY
  Re st frow
  LAuer

On the foot-board were these words:--

  We ll
  d OW N.

The rude artist was Kit, the son of the old man. He can read, and also write a little, and,
like his deceased father, is a negro preacher. He said that he used to carry his father in
his arms in his old age,--that the old man had no pain, and, as the son expressed it, "sunk
in years." I inquired of Kit concerning several of the graves; and I found, by his intelligent
answers, that their tenants were disposed in families and were known. These lowly burial-places,
for which art has done nothing, are not without a fascination, and in some hours of life they
take a faster hold on the sentiments than more imposing cemeteries, adorned with shafts of
marble and granite, and rich in illustrious dead.

There were some superstitions among the people, perhaps of African origin, which the teachers
had detected, such as a belief in hags as evil spirits, and in a kind of witchcraft which only
certain persons can cure. They have a superstition, that, when you take up and remove a sleeping
child, you must call its spirit, else it will cry, on awaking, until you have taken it back
to the same place and invoked its spirit. They believe that turning an alligator on his back
will bring rain; and they will not talk about one when in a boat, lest a storm should thereby
be brought on.

But the features in the present condition of the freedmen bearing directly on the solution
of the social problem deserve most consideration.

And, first, as to education. There are more than thirty schools in the territory, conducted
by as many as forty or forty-five teachers, who are commissioned by the three associations
in Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, and by the American Missionary Association. They have
an average attendance of two thousand pupils, and are more or less frequented by an additional
thousand. The ages of the scholars range in the main from eight to twelve years. They did not
know even their letters prior to a year ago last March, except those who were being taught
in the single school at Beaufort already referred to, which had been going on for a few weeks.
Very many did not have the opportunity for instruction till weeks and even months after. During
the spring and summer of 1862 there were not more than a dozen schools, and these were much
interrupted by the heat, and by the necessity of assigning at times some of the teachers to
act as superintendents. Teachers came for a brief time, and upon its expiration, or for other
cause, returned home, leaving the schools to be broken up. It was not until October or November
that the educational arrangements were put into much shape; and they are still but imperfectly
organized. In some localities there is as yet no teacher, and this because the associations
have not had the funds wherewith to provide one.

I visited ten of the schools, and conversed with the teachers of others. There were, it may
be noted, some mixed bloods in the schools of the town of Beaufort,--ten in a school of ninety,
thirteen in another of sixty-four, and twenty in another of seventy. In the schools on the
plantations there were never more than half a dozen in one school, in some cases but two or
three, and in others none.

The advanced classes were reading simple stories and didactic passages in the ordinary school-books,
as Hillard's Second Primary Reader, Willson's Second Reader, and others of similar grade. Those
who had enjoyed a briefer period of instruction were reading short sentences or learning the
alphabet. In several of this schools a class was engaged on an elementary lesson in arithmetic,
geography, or writing. The eagerness for knowledge and the facility of acquisition displayed
in the beginning had not abated.

On the 25th of March I visited a school at the Central Baptist Church on St. Helena Island,
built in 1855, shaded by lofty live-oak trees, with the long, pendulous moss everywhere hanging
from their wide-spreading branches, and surrounded by the gravestones of the former proprietors,
which bear the ever-recurring names of Fripp and Chaplin. This school was opened in September
last, but many of the pupils had received some instruction before. One hundred and thirty-one
children were present on my first visit, and one hundred and forty-five on my second, which
was a few days later. Like most of the schools on the plantations, it opened at noon and closed
at three o'clock, leaving the forenoon for the children to work in the field or perform other
service in which they could be useful. One class, of twelve pupils, read page 70th in Willson's
Reader, on "Going Away." They had not read the passage before, and they went through it with
little spelling or hesitation. They had recited the first thirty pages of Towle's Speller,
and the multiplication-table as high as fives, and were commencing the sixes. A few of the
scholars, the youngest, or those who had come latest to the school, were learning the alphabet.
At the close of the school, they recited in concert the Psalm, "The Lord is my shepherd," requiring
prompting at the beginning of some of the verses.

  "For none in all the world before
    Were ever glad as we,--
  We're free on Carolina's shore,
    We're all at home and free!"

Never has that pure Muse, which has sung only of truth and right, as the highest beauty and
noblest art, been consecrated to a better service than to write the songs of praise for these
little children, chattels no longer, whom the Saviour, were he now to walk on earth, would
bless as his own.

The prevalent song, however, heard in every school, in church, and by the way-side, is that
of "John Brown," which very much amuses our white soldiers, particularly when the singers roll
out,--

  "We'll hang Jeff Davis on a sour apple tree!"

The children also sang their own songs, as,--

  "In de morning' when I rise,
    Tell my Jesus.

  "Dere's room enough, dere's room enough,
    Dere's room enough in de heab'nly groun',
  Dere's room enough, dere's room enough,
      I can't stay behin'.

  "I can't stay behin', my Lord,
    I can't stay behin',
  I can't stay behin', my Lord,
    I can't stay behin'.

  "Dere's room enough," etc.

Other songs of the negroes are common, as, "The Wrestling Jacob," "Down in the lonesome valley,"
"Roll, Jordan, roll," "Heab'n shall-a be my home." Russell's "Diary" gives an account of these
songs, as he heard them in his evening row over Broad River, on his way to Trescot's estate.

One of the teachers of this school is an accomplished woman from Philadelphia. Another is from
Newport, Rhode Island, where she had prepared herself for this work by benevolent labors in
teaching poor children. The third is a young woman of African descent, of olive complexion,
finely cultured, and attuned to all beautiful sympathies, of gentle address, and, what was
specially noticeable, not possessed with an overwrought consciousness of her race. She had
read the best books, and naturally and gracefully enriched her conversation with them. She
had enjoyed the friendship of Whittier; had been a pupil in the Grammar-School of Salem, then
in the State Normal School in that city, then a teacher in one of the schools for white children,
where she had received only the kindest treatment both from the pupils and their parents,--and
let this be spoken to the honor of that ancient town. She had refused a residence in Europe,
where a better social life and less unpleasant discrimination awaited her, for she would not
dissever herself from the fortunes of her people; and now, not with a superficial sentiment,
but with a profound purpose, she devotes herself to their elevation.

At Coffin Point, on St. Helena Island, I visited a school kept by a young woman from the town
of Milton, Massachusetts, "the child of parents passed into the skies," whose lives have both
been written for the edification of the Christian world. She teaches two schools, at different
hours in the afternoon, and with different scholars in each. One class had read through Hillard's
Second Primary Reader, and were on a review, reading Lessons 19, 20, and 21, while I was present.
Being questioned as to the subjects of the lessons, they answered intelligently. They recited
the twos of the multiplication-table, explained numeral letters and figures on the blackboard,
and wrote letters and figures on slates. Another teacher in the adjoining district, a graduate
of Harvard, and the son of a well-known Unitarian clergyman of Providence, Rhode Island, has
two schools, in one of which a class of three pupils was about finishing Ellsworth's First
Progressive Reader, and another, of seven pupils, had just finished Hillard's Second Primary
Header. Another teacher, from Cambridge, Massachusetts, on the same island, numbers one hundred
pupils in his two schools. He exercises a class in elocution, requiring the same sentence to
be repeated with different tones and inflections, and one could not but remark the excellent
imitations.

In a school at St. Helena village, where were collected the Edisto refugees, ninety-two pupils
were present as I went in. Two ladies were engaged in teaching, assisted by Ned Loyd White,
a colored man, who had picked up clandestinely a knowledge of reading while still a slave.
One class of boys and another of girls read in the seventh chapter of St. John, having begun
this Gospel and gone thus far. They stumbled a little on words like "unrighteousness" and "circumcision";
otherwise they got along very well. When the Edisto refugees were brought here, in July, 1862,
Ned, who is about forty or forty-five years old, and Uncle Cyrus, a man of seventy, who also
could read, gathered one hundred and fifty children into two schools, and taught them as best
they could for five months until teachers were provided by the societies. Ned has since received
a donation from one of the societies, and is now regularly employed on a salary. A woman comes
to one of the teachers of this school for instruction in the evening, after she has put her
children to bed. She had become interested in learning by hearing her younger sister read when
she came home from school; and when she asked to be taught, she had learned from this sister
the alphabet and some words of one syllable. Only a small proportion of the adults are, however,
learning.

On the 8th of April, I visited a school on Ladies Island, kept in a small church on the Eustis
estate, and taught by a young woman from Kingston, Massachusetts. She had manifested much persistence
in going to this field, went with the first delegation, and still keeps the school which she
opened in March, 1862. She taught the pupils their letters. Sixty-six were present on the day
of my visit. A class of ten pupils read the story which commences on page 86th of Hillard's
Second Primary Reader. One girl, Elsie, a full black, and rather ungainly withal, read so rapidly
that she had to be checked,--the only case of such fast reading that I found. She assisted
the teacher by taking the beginners to a corner of the room and exercising them upon an alphabet
card, requiring them to give the names of letters taken out of their regular order, and with
the letters making words, which they were expected to repeat after her. One class recited in
Eaton's First Lessons in Arithmetic; and two or three scholars with a rod pointed out the states,
lakes, and large rivers on the map of the United States, and also the different continents
on the map of the world, as they were called. I saw the teacher of this school at her residence,
late in the afternoon, giving familiar instruction to some ten boys and girls, all but two
being under twelve years, who read the twenty-first chapter of the Book of Revelation, and
the story of Lazarus in the eleventh chapter of St. John. Elsie was one of these. Seeing me
taking notes, she looked archly at the teacher, and whispered,--"he's putting me in the book";
and as Elsie guessed, so I do. The teacher was instructing her pupils in some dates and facts
which have had much to do with our history. The questions and answers, in which all the pupils
joined, were these:--

"Where were slaves first brought to this country?"

"Virginia."

"When?"

"1620."

"Who brought them?"

"Dutchmen."

"Who came the same year to Plymouth, Massachusetts?"

"Pilgrims."

"Did they bring slaves?"

"No."

A teacher in Beaufort put these questions, to which answers were given in a loud tone by the
whole school:--

"What country do you live in?"

"United States."

"What State?"

"South Carolina."

"What island?"

"Port Royal."

"What town?"

"Beaufort."

"Who is your Governor?"

"General Saxton."

"Who is your President?"

"Abraham Lincoln."

"What has he done for you?"

"He's freed us."

There were four schools in the town of Beaufort, all of which I visited, each having an average
attendance of from sixty to ninety pupils, and each provided with two teachers. In some of
them writing was taught. But it is unnecessary to describe them, as they were very much like
the others. There is, besides, at Beaufort an industrial school, which meets two afternoons
in a week, and is conducted by a lady from New York, with some dozen ladies to assist her.
There were present, the afternoon I visited it, one hundred and thirteen girls from six to
twenty years of age, all plying the needle, some with pieces of patchwork, and others with
aprons, pillow-cases, or handkerchiefs.

Though I have never been on the school-committee, I accepted invitations to address the schools
on these visits, and particularly plied the pupils with questions, so as to catch the tone
of their minds; and I have rarely heard children answer with more readiness and spirit. We
had a dialogue substantially as follows:--

"Children, what are you going to do when you grow up?"

"Going to work, Sir."

"On what?"

"Cotton and corn, Sir."

"What are you going to do with the corn?"

"Eat it."

"What are you going to do with the cotton?"

"Sell it."

"What are you going to do with the money you get for it?"

One boy answered in advance of the rest,--

"Put it in my pocket, Sir."

"That won't do. What's better than that?"

"Buy clothes, Sir."

"What else will you buy?"

"Shoes, Sir."

"What else are you going to do with your money?"

There was some hesitation at this point. Then the question was put,--

"What are you going to do Sundays?"

"Going to meeting."

"What are you going to do there?"

"Going to sing."

"What else?"

"Hear the parson."

"Who's going to pay him?"

One boy said,--"Government pays him"; but the rest answered,--

"We's pays him."

"Well, when you grow up, you'll probably get married, as other people do, and you'll have your
little children; now, what will you do with them?"

There was a titter at this question; but the general response came,--

"Send 'em to school, Sir."

"Well, who'll pay the teacher?"

"We's pays him."

One who listens to such answers can hardly think that there is any natural incapacity in these
children to acquire with maturity of years the ideas and habits of good citizens.

The children are cheerful, and, in most of the schools, well-behaved, except that it is not
easy to keep them from whispering and talking. They are joyous, and you can see the boys after
school playing the soldier, with corn-stalks for guns. The memory is very susceptible in them,--too
much so, perhaps, as it is ahead of the reasoning faculty.

The labor of the season has interrupted attendance on the schools, the parents being desirous
of having the children aid them in planting and cultivating their crops, and it not being thought
best to allow the teaching to interfere in any way with industrious habits.

A few freedmen, who had picked up an imperfect knowledge of reading, have assisted our teachers,
though a want of proper training materially detracts from their usefulness in this respect.
Ned and Uncle Cyrus have already been mentioned. The latter, a man of earnest piety, has died
since my visit. Anthony kept four schools on Hilton Head Island last summer and autumn, being
paid at first by the superintendents, and afterwards by the negroes themselves; but in November
he enlisted in the negro regiment. Hettie was another of these. She assisted Barnard at Edisto
last spring, continued to teach after the Edisto people were brought to St. Helena village,
and one day brought some of her pupils to the school at the Baptist Church, saying to the teachers
there that she could carry them no farther. They could read their letters and words of one
syllable. Hettie had belonged to a planter on Wadmelaw Island, a kind old gentleman, a native
of Rhode Island, and about the only citizen of Charleston who, when Samuel Hoar went on his
mission to South Carolina, stood up boldly for his official and personal protection. Hettie
had been taught to read by his daughter; and let this be remembered to the honor of the young
woman.

Such are the general features of the schools as they met my eye. The most advanced classes,
and these are but little ahead of the rest, can read simple stories and the plainer passages
of Scripture; and they could even pursue self-instruction, if the schools were to be suspended.
The knowledge they have thus gained can never be extirpated. They could read with much profit
a newspaper specially prepared for them and adapted to their condition. They are learning that
the world is not bounded north by Charleston, south by Savannah, west by Columbia, and east
by the sea, with dim visions of New York on this planet or some other,--about their conception
of geography when we found them. They are acquiring the knowledge of figures with which to
do the business of life. They are singing the songs of freemen. Visit their schools; remember
that a little more than a twelve-month ago they knew not a letter, and that for generations
it has been a crime to teach their race; then contemplate what is now transpiring, and you
have a scene which prophets and sages would have delighted to witness. It will be difficult
to find equal progress in an equal period since the morning rays of Christian truth first lighted
the hill-sides of Judea. I have never looked on St. Peter's, or beheld the glories of art which
Michel Angelo has wrought or traced; but to my mind the spectacle of those poor souls struggling
in darkness and bewilderment to catch the gleams of the upper and better light transcends in
moral grandeur anything that has ever come from mortal hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next as to industry. The laborers, during their first year under the new system, have acquired
the idea of ownership, and of the security of wages, and have come to see that labor and slavery
are not the same thing. The notion that they were to raise no more cotton has passed away,
since work upon it is found to be remunerative, and connected with the proprietorship of land.
House-servants, who were at first particularly set against it, now generally prefer it. The
laborers have collected the pieces of the gins which they destroyed on the flight of their
masters, the ginning being obnoxious work, repaired them, and ginned the cotton on the promise
of wages. Except upon plantations in the vicinity of camps, where other labor is more immediately
remunerative, and an unhealthy excitement prevails, there is a general disposition to cultivate
it. The culture of the cotton is voluntary, the only penalty for not engaging in it being the
imposition of a rent for the tenement and land adjacent thereto occupied by the negro, not
exceeding two dollars per month. Both the Government and private individuals, who have become
owners of one-fourth of the land by the recent tax-sales, pay twenty-five cents for a standard
day's-work, which may, by beginning early, be performed by a healthy and active hand by noon;
and the same was the case with the tasks under the slave-system on very many of the plantations.
As I was riding through one of Mr. Philbrick's fields one morning, I counted fifty persons
at work who belonged to one plantation. This gentleman, who went out with the first delegation,
and at the same time gave largely to the benevolent contributions for the enterprise, was the
leading purchaser at the tax-sales, and combining a fine humanity with honest sagacity and
close calculation, no man is so well fitted to try the experiment. He bought thirteen plantations,
and on these has had planted and cultivated eight hundred and sixteen acres of cotton where
four hundred and ninety-nine and one twelve-hundredth acres were cultivated last year,--a larger
increase, however, than will generally be found in other districts, due mainly to prompter
payments. The general superintendent of Port Royal Wand said to me,--"We have to restrain rather
than to encourage the negroes to take land for cotton." The general superintendent of Hilton
Head Island said, that on that island the negroes had, besides adequate corn, taken two, three,
and in a few cases four acres of cotton to a hand, and there was a general disposition to cultivate
it, except near the camps. A superintendent on St. Helena Island said, that, if he were going
to carry on any work, he should not want bettor laborers. He had charge of the refugees from
Edisto, who had been brought to St. Helena village, and who had cleared and fenced patches
for gardens, felling the trees for that purpose.

The laborers do less work, perhaps, than a Yankee would think they might do; but they do about
as much as he himself would do, after a residence of a few years in the same climate, and when
he had ceased to work under the influence of Northern habits. Northern men have sometimes been
unjust to the South, when comparing the results of labor in the different sections. God never
intended that a man should toil under a tropical sun with the same energy and constancy as
in our bracing latitude. There has been less complaint this year than last of "a pain in the
small of the back," or of "a fever in the head,"--in other words, less shamming. The work has
been greatly deranged by the draft, some features of which have not been very skilfully arranged,
and by the fitfulness with which the laborers have been treated by the military authorities.
The work both upon the cotton and the corn is done only by the women, children, and disabled
men. It has been suggested that field-work does not become women in the new condition; and
so it may seem to some persons of just sympathies who have not yet learned that no honest work
is dishonorable in man or woman. But this matter may be left to regulate itself. Field-work,
as an occupation, may not be consistent with the finest feminine culture or the most complete
womanliness; but it in no way conflicts with virtue, self-respect, and social development.
Women work in the field in Switzerland, the freest country of Europe; and we may look with
pride on the triumphs of this generation, when the American negroes become the peers of the
Swiss peasantry. Better a woman with the hoe than without it, when she is not yet fitted for
the needle or the book.

The negroes were also showing their capacity to organize labor and apply capital to it. Harry,
to whom I referred in my second report, as "my faithful guide and attendant, who had done for
me more service than any white man could render," with funds of his own, and some borrowed
money, bought at the recent tax-sales a small farm of three hundred and thirteen acres for
three hundred and five dollars. He was to plant sixteen and a half acres of cotton, twelve
and a half of corn, and one and a half of potatoes. I rode through his farm on the 10th of
April, my last day in the territory, and one-third of his crop was then in. Besides some servant's
duty to an officer, for which he is well paid, he does the work of a full hand on his place.
He hires one woman and two men, one of the latter being old and only a three-quarters hand.
He has two daughters, sixteen and seventeen years of age, one of whom is likewise only a three-quarters
hand. His wife works also, of whom he said, "She's the best hand I got"; and if Celia is only
as smart with her hoe as I know her to be with her tongue, Harry's estimate must be right.
He has a horse twenty-five years old and blind in both eyes, whom he guides with a rope,--carrying
on farming, I thought, somewhat under difficulties. Harry lives in the house of the former
overseer, and delights, though not boastingly, in his position as a landed proprietor. He has
promised to write me, or rather dictate a letter, giving an account of the progress of his
crop. He has had much charge of Government property, and when Captain Hooper, of General Saxton's
staff, was coming North last autumn, Harry proposed to accompany him; but at last, of his own
accord, gave up the project, saying, "It'll not do for all two to leave together."

Another case of capacity for organization should be noted. The Government is building twenty-one
houses for the Edisto people, eighteen feet by fourteen, with two rooms, each provided with
a swinging board-window, and the roof projecting a little as a protection from rain. The journey-carpenters
are seventeen colored men, who have fifty cents per day without rations, working ten hours.
They are under the direction of Frank Barnwell, a freedman, who receives twenty dollars a month.
Rarely have I talked with a more intelligent contractor. It was my great regret that I had
not time to visit the village of improved houses near the Hilton Head camp, which General Mitchell
had extemporized, and to which he gave so much of the noble enthusiasm of his last days.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next as to the development of manhood. This has been shown, in the first place, in the prevalent
disposition to acquire land. It did not appear upon our first introduction to these people,
and they did not seem to understand us when we used to tell them that we wanted them to own
land. But it is now an active desire. At the recent tax-sales, six out of forty-seven plantations
sold were bought by them, comprising two thousand five hundred and ninety-five acres, sold
for twenty-one hundred and forty-five dollars. In other cases the negroes had authorized the
superintendent to bid for them, but the land was reserved by the United States. One of the
purchases was that made by Harry, noted above. The other five were made by the negroes on the
plantations combining the funds they had saved from the sale of their pigs, chickens, and eggs,
and from the payments made to them for work,--they then dividing off the tract peaceably among
themselves. On one of these, where Kit, before mentioned, is the leading spirit, there are
twenty-three field-hands, who are equivalent to eighteen full hands. They have planted and
are cultivating sixty-three acres of cotton, fifty of corn, six of potatoes, with as many more
to be planted, four and a half of cow-peas, three of pea-nuts, and one and a half of rice.
These facts are most significant. The instinct for land--to have one spot on earth where a
man may stand, and whence no human being can of right drive him--is one of the most conservative
elements of our nature; and a people who have it in any fair degree will never be nomads or
vagabonds.

This developing manhood is further seen in their growing consciousness of rights, and their
readiness to defend themselves, even when assailed by white men. The former slaves of a planter,
now at Beaufort, who was a resident of New York when the war broke out, have generally left
the plantation, suspicious of his presence, saying that they will not be his bondmen, and fearing
that in some way he may hold them, if they remain on it. A remarkable case of the assertion
of rights occurred one day during my visit. Two white soldiers, with a corporal, went on Sunday
to Coosaw Island, where one of the soldiers, having a gun, shot a chicken belonging to a negro.
The negroes rushed out and wrested the gun from the corporal, to whom the soldier had handed
it, thinking that the negroes would not take it from an officer. They then carried it to the
superintendent, who took it to head-quarters, where an order was given for the arrest of the
trespasser. Other instances might be added, but these are sufficient.

Another evidence of developing manhood appears in their desire for the comforts and conveniences
of household life. The Philadelphia society, for the purpose of maintaining reasonable prices,
has a store on St. Helena Island, which is under the charge of Friend Hunn, of the good fellowship
of William Penn. He was once fined in Delaware three thousand dollars for harboring and assisting
fugitive slaves; but he now harbors and assists them at a much cheaper rate. Though belonging
to a society which is the advocate of peace, his tone is quite as warlike as that of the world's
people. In this store alone--and there are others on the island, carried on by private enterprise--two
thousand dollars' worth of goods are sold monthly. To be sure, a rather large proportion of
these consists of molasses and sugar, "sweetening," as the negroes call it, being in great
demand, and four barrels of molasses having been sold the day of my visit. But there is also
a great demand for plates, knives, forks, tin ware, and better clothing, including even hoop-skirts.
Negro-cloth, as it is called, osnaburgs, russet-colored shoes,--in short, the distinctive apparel
formerly dealt out to them, as a uniform allowance,--are very generally rejected. But there
is no article of household-furniture or wearing apparel, used by persons of moderate means
among us, which they will not purchase, when they are allowed the opportunity of labor and
earning wages. What a market the South would open under the new system! It would set all the
mills and workshops astir. Four millions of people would become purchasers of all the various
articles of manufacture and commerce, in place of the few coarse, simple necessaries, laid
in for them in gross by the planters. Here is the solution of the vexed industrial question.
These all exist in the negro, in a state of greater or less development. To give one or two
examples. One man brought Captain Hooper seventy dollars in silver, to keep for him, which
he had obtained from selling pigs and chickens,--thus providing for the future. Soldiers of
Colonel Higginson's regiment, having confidence in the same officer, intrusted him, when they
were paid off, with seven hundred dollars, to be transmitted by him to their wives, and this
besides what they had sent home in other ways,--showing the family-feeling to be active and
strong in them. They have also the social and religious inspirations to labor. Thus, early
in our occupation of Hilton Head, they took up, of their own accord, a collection to pay for
the candles for their evening meetings, feeling that it was not right for the Government longer
to provide them. The result was a contribution of two dollars and forty-eight cents. They had
just fled from their masters, and had received only a small pittance of wages, and this little
sum was not unlike the two mites which the widow cast into the treasury. Another collection
was taken, last June, in the church on St. Helena Island, upon the suggestion of the pastor
that they should share in the expenses of worship. Fifty-two dollars was the result,--not a
bad collection for some of our Northern churches. I have seen these people where they are said
to be lowest, and sad indeed are some features of their lot, yet with all earnestness and confidence
I enter my protest against the wicked satire of Carlyle.

Is there not here some solution of the question of prejudice or caste which has troubled so
many good minds? When these people can no longer be used as slaves, men will try to see how
they can make the most out of them as freemen. Your Irishman, who now works as a day-laborer,
honestly thinks that he hates the negro; but when the war is over, he will have no objection
to going South and selling him groceries and household-implements at fifty per cent. advance
on New-York prices, or to hiring him to raise cotton for twenty-five or fifty cents a day.
Our prejudices, under any reasonable adjustment of the social system, readily accommodate themselves
to our interests, even without much aid from the moral sentiments.

Let those who would study well this social question, or who in public trusts are charged with
its solution, be most careful here. Every motive in the minds of these people, whether of instinct,
desire, or duty, must be addressed. All the elements of human nature must be appealed to, physical,
moral, intellectual, social, and religious. Imperfect indeed is any system which, like that
at New Orleans, offers wages, but does not welcome the teacher. It is of little moment whether
three dollars or thirty per month be paid the laborer, so long as there is no school to bind
both parent and child to civil society with new hopes and duties.

There are some vices charged upon these people, or a portion of them, and truth requires that
nothing be withheld. There is said to be a good deal of petty pilfering among them, although
they are faithful to trusts. This is the natural growth of the old system, and is quite likely
to accompany the transition-state. Besides, the present disturbed and unorganized condition
of things is not favorable to the rigid virtues. But inferences from this must not be pressed
too far. When I was a private soldier in Virginia, as one of a three-months' regiment, we used
to bide from each other our little comforts and delicacies, even our dishes and clothing, or
they were sure to disappear. But we should have ridiculed an adventurous thinker upon the characteristics
of races and classes, who should have leaped therefrom to the conclusion that all white men
or all soldiers are thieves. And what inferences might not one draw, discreditable to all traders
and manufacturers, from the universal adulteration of articles of food! These people, it is
said, are disposed to falsehood in order to get rations and small benefits,--a natural vice
which comes with slavery, and too often attends on poverty without slavery. Those of most demonstrative
piety are rarely better than the rest, not, indeed, hypocritical, but satisfying their consciences
by self-depreciation and indulgence in emotion,--psychological manifestations which one may
find in more advanced communities. They show no special gratitude to us for liberating them
from bonds. Nor do they ordinarily display much exhilaration over their new condition,--being
quite unlike the Italian revolutionist who used to put on his toga, walk in the forum, and
personate Brutus and Cassius. Their appreciation of their better lot is chiefly seen in their
dread of a return of their masters, in their excitement when an attack is feared, in their
anxious questionings while the assault on Charleston was going on, and in their desire to get
their friends and relatives away from the Rebels,--an appreciation of freedom, if not ostentatious,
at least sensible.

But away with such frivolous modes of dealing with the rights of races to self-development!
Because Englishmen may be classified as hard and conceited, Frenchmen as capricious, Austrians
as dull, and the people of one other nation are sometimes thought to be vainglorious, shall
these therefore be slaves? And where is that model race which shall sway them all? A people
may have grave defects, but it may not therefore be rightfully disabled.

       *       *       *       *       *

During my recent visit, I had an opportunity, on three different occasions, to note carefully
Colonel T.W. Higginson's colored regiment, known as the First Regiment of South-Carolina Volunteers.
Major-General Hunter's first regiment was mainly made up of conscripts, drafted May 12th, 1862,
and disbanded August 11th, three months afterwards, there being no funds wherewith to pay them,
and the discharged men going home to find the cotton and corn they had planted overgrown with
weeds. On the 10th of October, General Saxton, being provided with competent authority to raise
five thousand colored troops, began to recruit a regiment. His authority from the War Department
bore date August 25th, and the order conferring it states the object to be "to guard the plantations,
and protect the inhabitants from captivity and murder." This was the first clear authority
ever given by the Government to raise a negro regiment in this war. There were, indeed, some
ambiguous words in the instructions of Secretary Cameron to General Sherman, when the original
expedition went to Port Royal, authorizing him to organize the negroes into companies and squads
for such services as they might be fitted for, but this not to mean a general arming for military
service. Secretary Stanton, though furnishing muskets and red trousers to General Hunter's
regiment, did not think the authority sufficient to justify the payment of the regiment. The
first regiment, as raised by General Saxton, numbered four hundred and ninety-nine men when
Colonel Higginson took command of it on the 1st of December; and on the 19th of January, 1863,
it had increased to eight hundred and forty-nine. It has made three expeditions to Florida
and Georgia,--one before Colonel Higginson assumed the command, described in Mrs. Stowe's letter
to the women of England, and two under Colonel Higginson, one of which was made in January
up the St. Mary's, and the other in March to Jacksonville, which it occupied for a few days
until an evacuation was ordered from head-quarters. The men are volunteers, having been led
to enlist by duty to their race, to their kindred still in bonds, and to us, their allies.
Their drill is good, and their time excellent. They have borne themselves well in their expeditions,
quite equalling the white regiments in skirmishing. In morale they seemed very much like white
men, and with about the same proportion of good and indifferent soldiers. Some I saw of the
finest metal, like Robert Sutton, whom Higginson describes in his report as "the real conductor
of the whole expedition at the St. Mary's," and Sergeant Hodges, a master-carpenter, capable
of directing the labors of numerous journeymen. Another said, addressing a meeting at Beaufort,
that he had been restless, nights, thinking of the war and of his people,--that, when he heard
of the regiment being formed, he felt that his time to act had come, and that it was his duty
to enlist,--that he did not fight for his rations and pay, but for wife, children, and people.

These men, as already intimated, are very much like other men, easily depressed, and as easily
reanimated by words of encouragement. Many have been reluctant to engage in military service,--their
imagination investing it with the terrors of instant and certain death. But this reluctance
has passed away with participation in active service, with the adventure and inspiration of
a soldier's life, and the latent manhood has recovered its rightful sway. Said a superintendent
who was of the first delegation to Tort Royal in March, 1862,--a truthful man, and not given
to rose-colored views,--"I did not have faith in arming negroes, when I visited the North last
autumn, but I have now. They will be not mere machines, but real tigers, when aroused; and
I should not wish to face them." One amusing incident may be mentioned. A man deserted from
the regiment, was discovered hidden in a chimney in the district where he had lived, was taken
back to camp, went to Florida in Higginson's first expedition, bore his part well in the skirmishes,
became excited with the service, was made a sergeant, and, receiving a furlough on his return,
went to the plantation where he had hid, and said he would not take five thousand dollars for
his place.

But more significant, as showing the success of the experiment, is the change of feeling among
the white soldiers towards the negro regiment, a change due in part to the just policy of General
Saxton, in part to the President's Proclamation of January 1st, which has done much to clear
the atmosphere everywhere within the army-lines, but more than all to the soldierly conduct
of the negroes themselves during their expeditions. I had one excellent opportunity to note
this change. On the 6th of April, Colonel Higginson's regiment was assigned to picket-duty
on Port Royal Island,--the first active duty it had performed on the Sea Islands,--and was
to relieve the Pennsylvania Fifty-Fifth. When, after a march of ten miles, it reached the advanced
picket-station, there were about two hundred soldiers of the Pennsylvania Fifty-Fifth awaiting
orders to proceed to Beaufort. I said, in a careless tone, to one of the Pennsylvania soldiers,
who was looking at Higginson's regiment as it stood in line,--

"Isn't this rather new, to be relieved by a negro regiment?"

"All right," said he. "They've as much right to fight for themselves as I have to fight for them."

A squad of half a dozen men stood by, making no dissent, and accepting him as their spokesman.
Moving in another direction, I said to a soldier,--

"What do you think of that regiment?"

The answer was,--

"All right. I'd rather they'd shoot the Rebels than have the Rebels shoot me"; and none of
the by-standers dissented.

As one of the negro companies marched off the field to picket a station at the Ferry, they
passed within a few feet of some twenty of the Pennsylvania soldiers, just formed into line
preparatory to marching to Beaufort. The countenances of the latter, which I watched, exhibited
no expression of disgust, dislike, or disapprobation, only of curiosity. Other white soldiers
gave to the weary negroes the hominy left from the morning meal. The Major of the Fifty-Fifth,
highest in command of the relieved regiment, explained very courteously to Colonel Higginson
the stations and duties of the pickets, and proffered any further aid desired. This was, it
is true, an official duty, but there are more ways than one in which to perform even an official
duty. I rode back to Beaufort, part of the way, in company with a captain of the First Massachusetts
Cavalry, who was the officer of the day. He said "he wasn't much of a negro-man, but he had
no objection to their doing our fighting." He pronounced the word as spelled with two gs; but
I prefer to retain the good English. Colonel Montgomery, who had a partly filled regiment,
most of whom were conscripts, said that on his return from Jacksonville he sent a squad of
his men ashore in charge of some prisoners he had taken. Some white soldiers seeing them approach
from the wharf, one said,--

"What are those coming?"

"Negro soldiers," (word pronounced as in the former case,) was the answer.

"Damn 'em!" was the ejaculation.

But as they approached nearer, "What have they got with 'em?" was inquired.

"Why, some Secesh prisoners."

"Bully for the negroes!" (the same pronunciation as before,) was then the response from all.

So quick was the transition, when it was found that the negroes had demonstrated their usefulness!
It is, perhaps, humiliating to remember that such an unreasonable and unpatriotic prejudice
has at any time existed; but it is never worth while to suppress the truth of history. This
prejudice has been effectually broken in the Free States; and one of the pageants of this epoch
was the triumphal march through Boston, on the 28th of May, on its way to embark for Port Royal,
of the Fifty-Fourth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, the first regiment of negro soldiers
which the Free States have sent to the war. On the day previous, May 27th, a far different
scene transpired on the banks of the Mississippi. Two black regiments, enlisted some months
before in Louisiana under the order of Major-General Butler, both with line and one with field
officers of their own lineage, made charge after charge on the batteries of Port Hudson, and
were mown down like summer's grass, the survivors, many with mutilated limbs, closing up the
thinned ranks and pressing on again, careless of life, and mindful only of honor and duty,
with a sublimity of courage unsurpassed in the annals of war, and leaving there to all mankind
an immortal record for themselves and their race.

I cannot here forbear a momentary tribute to Wentworth Higginson. Devoting himself heroically
to his great work, absorbed in its duties, and bearing his oppressive responsibility as the
leader of a regiment in which to a great extent are now involved the fortunes of a race, he
adds another honorable name to the true chivalry of our time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Homeward-bound, I stopped for two days at Fortress Monroe, and was again among the familiar
scenes of my soldier-life. It was there that Major-General Butler, first of all the generals
in the army of the Republic, and anticipating even Republican statesmen, had clearly pointed
to the cause of the war. At Craney Island I met two accomplished women of the Society of Friends,
who, on a most cheerless spot, and with every inconvenience, were teaching the children of
the freedmen. Two good men, one at the fort and the other at Norfolk, were distributing the
laborers on farms in the vicinity, and providing them with implements and seeds which the benevolent
societies had furnished. Visiting Hampton, I recognized, in the shanties built upon the charred
ruins, the familiar faces of those who, in the early days of the war, had been for a brief
period under my charge. Their hearty greetings to one whom they remembered as the first to
point them to freedom and cheer them with its prospect could hardly be received without emotion.
But there is no time to linger over these scenes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such are some of the leading features in the condition of the freedmen, particularly at Port
Royal. The enterprise for their aid, begun in doubt, is no longer a bare hope or possibility.
It is a fruition and a consummation. The negroes will work for a living. They will fight for
their freedom. They are adapted to civil society. As a people, they are not exempt from the
frailties of our common humanity, nor from the vices which hereditary bondage always superadds
to these. As it is said to take three generations to subdue a freeman completely to a slave,
so it may not be possible in a single generation to restore the pristine manhood. One who expects
to find in emancipated slaves perfect men and women, or to realize in them some fair dream
of an ideal race, will meet disappointment; but there is nothing in their nature or condition
to daunt the Christian patriot; rather, there is everything to cheer and fortify his faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO AND YES.

  I watched her at her spinning;
  And this was my beginning
  Of wooing and of winning.

  But when a maid opposes,
  And throws away your roses,
  You say the case forecloses.

  Yet sorry wit one uses,
  Who loves and thinks he loses
  Because a maid refuses.

  For by her once denying
  She only means complying
  Upon a second trying.

  When first I said, in pleading,
  "Behold, my love lies bleeding!"
  She heard me half unheeding.

  When afterward I told her,
  And blamed her growing colder,--
  She dropped upon my shoulder.

  Had I a doubt? That quelled it:
  Her very look dispelled it,
  I caught her hand, and held it.

  Along the lane I led her,
  And while her cheeks grew redder,
  I sued outright to wed her.

  Good end from bad beginning!
  My wooing came to winning,--
  And still I watch her spinning.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MATHER SAFE.

The service I was able to render an official personage connected with ----College in New England
procured me access to the library belonging to that institution. In common with many of my
fellow-citizens, I had previously enjoyed the pleasure of responding to circulars petitioning
for money to buy books for interment in this choice literary catacomb; nay, I was even allowed
the satisfaction of an annual stare at them through an iron grating, and of reading a placard
to the effect that nobody was allowed to enter an alcove or take down a volume. As it occurred
to me that the generous donors could not object to add one more to the select half-dozen or
so, who, by having the privilege of the shelves, could really use the library, I demanded this
favor of the gentleman who desired to recompense me for what I had done for him. The Librarian,
who valued books as things capable of being locked up in cells like criminals, there to figure
numerically to the confusion of rival institutions, was manifestly disturbed when I presented
my credentials. The authority, however, was not to be questioned;--I was to be admitted to
the library at any hour of the day; and I took care to drop a civil expression to imply my
estimation of the privilege and my purpose of enjoying it.

Wanting the leisure to attempt that ponderous undertaking known as "a course of reading," it
became my habit to browse about the building upon Saturday afternoons, and finally to establish
myself, with whatever authors I had selected, in a certain retired alcove devoted to the metaphysicians.
This comfortable nook opens just behind Crawford's bust of the late President T----, and is
nearly opposite the famous Mather Safe. As it is possible that I am addressing some who are
not graduates of ---- College, nor familiar with its library, it may be well to say a word
of the history of the spacious and ancient coffer to which allusion is made.

The Mather Safe--which, by the way, is not of iron, but of oak heavily bound with that metal--is
said to have been among the possessions of the author of the "Magnalia." Its last private proprietor
was a collateral descendant of the Mathers, an eccentric character, popularly known as Miser
Farrel. As Farrel was a bachelor, and had the reputation of being enormously rich, the College
authorities of his day were accustomed to treat him with distinguished consideration, and went
so far, I believe, as to vote him some minor degree. What effect these academic blandishments
may have had upon their object cannot at present be determined. For when the day came for the
long-expected will to be opened, it was found that the old gentleman had bequeathed to the
College only his Mather Safe, with certain papers carefully let into the wood-work in one corner
of the same,--which papers were not to be removed or opened for a hundred years.

It may be conceived that this bulky benefaction was not accepted with the best grace, particularly
as the testator made no provision for considerable expense necessarily incurred in moving and
setting it up in the library. Yet, not satisfied with this culpable negligence, Mr. Farrel
had affixed still other conditions to the acceptance of his gift. He had caused two massive
locks to be put upon the Mather Safe, of which he enjoined that the respective keys should
be forever held by the President and Treasurer of the College, to the end that neither could
have access to its contents except in the presence of the other. Moreover, he required that
the Safe should be used only as a receptacle for packages which the depositors desired to keep
from the world for at least fifty years. Of course no right-minded corporation would have endured
this posthumous fussiness, were it not for the mysterious papers left in the Safe,--these being
considered instruments whereby immense possessions would finally come to the College. But,
as their worthy friend, however niggardly in other respects, had taken care to save nothing
in lawyers, there were really no means of disregarding his wishes, except by relinquishing
all claims under the will. And so, many years ago, the Mather Safe came to be opened to the
public on the conditions already declared. At first, it was matter of surprise that so many
persons appeared to claim the privilege of Farrel's singular legacy. Carefully enveloped packages
had been consigned to various periods of oblivion by all conditions of men and women. These
were numbered and registered in a volume kept for the purpose; they were severally addressed,
perhaps to a specified descendant of some living person, perhaps to the future occupant of
some professor's chair or metropolitan pulpit.

It was near the Mather Safe, as I have already said, that my favorite alcove opened. In the
short winter afternoon, when the twilight thickened without the building, and the type began
to blur within, I would lay aside my book and muse over wild rumors of secrets borne by this
messenger between the generations. Journals and letters, it was said, were there concealed,
which should change the current gossip of history, and explode many bubble-reputations that
had glittered on the world. There were hints of deadly sins, committed by men high in Church
and State, which their perpetrators lacked the courage to confess before their fellows, but
which, in the bitterness of remorse, they had recorded in the Mather Safe, to blacken their
fame to future times,--thus taking a ghastly satisfaction from the knowledge that they should
not always appear as whited sepulchres before men. There was vague talk, also, of funds which
had been deposited to found some professorship in the College, to furnish some instruction
which the age was not advanced enough to accept. Then, too, there were intimations of endowments
to establish scholarships for women, who,--so it was argued,--after the increasing enlightenment
of a few score of years, would be admitted to every privilege of culture offered to men. In
short, there was matter enough to send a curdling tingle through the blood, as this tough old
ark, buffeting slowly through the years, entered its familiar night. If there was deficiency
in the testimony which consigned any special wonder to its keeping, there was, doubtless, sufficient
truth in common reports to justify the imagination in interpreting misty hieroglyphics of its
own device.

During the latter part of a certain August--my family being established at the seaside--I determined
to devote a long day to the College Library. The fact was, that a trifling domestic incident--no
other than the smoking of a kitchen-chimney--had turned my attention to the conditions of atmospheric
changes. Certain phenomena I had observed seemed inconsistent with the law assumed in popular
text-books. Indeed, as it appeared to me, modifications of a received theory--which might be
determined by a diligent comparison of existing authorities--would suggest a household economy
of great practical importance. Certain facts, which must have been noted by all the great voyagers
of the world, might give me data from which to establish the suspected conclusion. I accordingly
repaired to the library at a very early hour, and labored through the day in collecting and
committing to writing what had been observed by many eminent navigators upon the point in question.
Four o'clock in the afternoon found me too tired to apply any process of analysis to the observations
obtained. I therefore retired to my accustomed seat, took down almost the first book which
came to hand, and resigned myself to the impressions of a favorite author. I had passed about
an hour in a delicious state of dreamy tranquillity, sometimes reading, sometimes pausing to
color the faded page with the brilliant hues of more modern thought, when my attention was
attracted by a familiar voice proceeding from the neighborhood of the Mather Safe.

"The President and Treasurer were to have been here at five o'clock."

"I have heard nothing of it," said the Librarian. "I am sure that the President is out of town
for the day."

"Strange! strange!" exclaimed the Reverend Mr. Clifton, in a very excited tone. "I wish to
make a deposit of great importance in the Mather Safe. I had the assurance that the Safe should
be opened at five this afternoon. Here, read the solemn promise upon which I have come from
Foxden!"

The Librarian glanced at an open letter which Clifton held out to him, and said, in a quiet
manner,--

"The President promises to meet you in the College Library on the afternoon of Thursday, the
twenty-fourth instant; to-day is Wednesday, the twenty-third."

"Is it possible?" muttered the clergyman, with a look of startled despair. "Pardon my disturbance.
I have been hardly myself for these last weeks. Yet I can wait."

I spoke to Mr. Clifton as he was about to leave the library. He blenched at hearing my voice,
and strove to conceal the package beneath his arm.

"How do my good friends in Foxden?" said I, inviting him into my alcove. "Is it true that Dr.
Dastick has presented his cabinet of curiosities to the town?"

"What are you reading?" said the clergyman, in a tone of curt authority very foreign to the
mild persuasiveness of his usual professional accents.

I exhibited the title of the book: it was the "Meditations of Descartes."

"And do you follow those who vainly seek for truth through the inner world of man, not conforming
themselves to the necessities of the outward world and the teachings of Revelation?"

I defended the usefulness of some acquaintance with the original and powerful thinker, whose
apologies are certainly profuse enough to satisfy the most orthodox.

"Yes; I suppose you read Spinoza, Hegel, Fichte, the Atheism of D'Holbach, Utilitarianism Systematized
by Auguste Comte! Did you ever go fishing in a dory when the wind was off shore?"

There was an alarm in the eye and manner of Mr. Clifton, a tremulous restlessness in his speech,
which warned me to avoid discussion, and endeavor to soothe his agitation. It was only to the
last interrogatory, therefore, that I made some light reply.

"The sea sparkles gayly," pursued the clergyman, in the manner of an extemporaneous preacher
who strives to catch in a net of decorations some illustration which presents itself,--"the
boat tosses on from wave to wave, for dories will sail before the wind. Soon we are miles from
shore, and throw the anchor. What auspicious expansion of soul and body! How we slide up and
down the backs of great billows, and cast our lines with ever-varying success! But the night
comes, and with it the necessity of rowing back against wind and tide. Ah, then how long the
lonely ocean-leagues! How distant the time when we may hope to stand confused and giddy upon
solid earth! Some never see the land again, but are swept out into the storm and darkness,
and are lost,--lost!"

"I presume I understand the significance of your similitude," I replied, a little annoyed at
this inopportune indulgence of the pastoral privilege. "You would imply the dangerous tendency
of a certain sort of philosophical speculation; and so far we doubtless agree. Yet I ought
to say, that, in cases where personal investigation is possible, I would take neither popular
clamor nor learned dogmatism as conclusive evidence against any writer's honesty and usefulness.
With the vulgar, genius has always seemed a sort of madness; and should a man rise preeminent
above the teachers of his generation, his wisdom would appear to them as foolishness."

A change came over the face of Clifton as I said these words. It was as if a mask had fallen.
Perchance he had wished to appear to me in that character of instructor which he desired some
competent person to assume to him. Now, the relaxed muscles and averted eye only asked the
sympathy of an equal. He spoke with forced, and almost grating, utterance.

"Then you have used experience well enough to know that some minds may bear into the world
a light, a knowledge too fine for general perception, too pure for even exceptional recognition."

"I fully believe it possible," I said. "Yonder old Safe, if rumor says true, holds many mystic
signals which the past and present could address only to the future,--signs meaningless, no
doubt, to you or me, but which the freemasonry of higher intelligence shall render plain in
the time hereafter."

"And what if I had come," exclaimed Clifton, eagerly,--"what if I had come to add to those
deposits which are not for this time, but which may be for other times? What blame to me, if
I am here to do this? Should we common men, who find a life full of active duties presented
to our acceptance,--should such as we, I say, receive this world as a pageant before which
we must sit down and evolve a doctrine? The conceit of external education is at present too
strong to acknowledge a divine element radiating from the depths of the soul, and finding in
the mind only an awkward and imperfect instrument. Any extravagance is now tolerated, but an
extravagance of spirituality; and we find altogether wanting the perception, that, rising from
the gross symbols of language, can know the subtile and precious emotion which in a more advanced
state of being those symbols might suggest."

As it was evident that Mr. Clifton was laboring under great nervous excitability, I judged
it prudent not to question the sequence of what he said, or even demand that it be made intelligible
by further explanation. Indeed, I was sufficiently occupied in striving to identify this incomprehensible
person with my familiar acquaintance, the pastor of the First Church in Foxden. It occurred
to me that something had once been said of Clifton's connection with that topsy-turvy sodality
popularly known as "The Transcendentalists." But this was many years ago; and the world always
supposed that he had outgrown his early errors, and found, in the liberal theology of New England,
a more genuine inspiration. In meeting him in his pastoral relation, I had only remarked that
he was one of those men who find it very difficult to resist the social influences into which
they may be thrown. This was probably the case even where that influence tended to degrade
him from the plane he would have occupied, if left to himself. His spiritual life seemed to
lack that vigor and buoyancy so infinitely important to contemplative men. He appeared to be
ever yearning for something which should add robustness to his convictions. After a pause of
some moments, Clifton again addressed me.

"Recollections of moments, months of excitement, of intense power, have returned! They may
not fade again unspoken. You shall know my long-cherished secret. Younger in years, you may
scarcely advise; but, at least, you may give sympathy that shall confirm my decision. I have
engaged rooms at the neighboring hotel. Come and pass the evening--nay, the night--with me;
for much must be read and thought and spoken before the black veil of personality can be lifted
between us."

It has already been observed that my family were at the seaside. This circumstance left me
sole disposer of my time and localities. How, then, resist the inclination to see out the adventure
upon which I had stumbled? Let me credit myself also with a worthier motive: I saw that my
companion was in no state to be left to himself,--and, really, there was no mutual friend to
whom I could consign him. Accordingly I offered my arm in a manner to imply acquiescence in
his proposal.

We soon reached the hotel, and ascended to a room in the remote corner of a spacious wing.
Clifton at once turned the key, placed his package upon the table, and proceeded to employ
a stray bit of carpet in stopping a ventilator which communicated with the entry. Having satisfied
himself that this passage was rendered impervious to sound, he drew two chairs up to the table,
motioned me into one, and planted himself in the other with the air of a man, in popular phrase,
about to make a night of it.

"Did you ever hear of Herbert Vannelle?" he asked, abruptly.

It can hardly be necessary to say that a substitute is here placed for the name really mentioned.

I replied in the negative, and asked where the gentleman lived.

"He lives nowhere on earth; he is dead,--just dead."

"A friend of yours?"

"A master once; now a presence eluding, haunting, torturing. He left me this manuscript; it
is a 'Philosophy of the Absolute.'" (Here Clifton drew from a curiously contrived case of parchment
a cluster of pages.) "It has now twenty-two hours to appear in the present century. You shall
devote the night to reading it, and tell me that I have acted well."

A sultry August evening, a smoky boarding-house lamp, much skirmishing of mosquitoes, and--a
manuscript system of philosophy! The prospect was not inviting. The reading of other people's
manuscripts is surely the crucial test of a devoted benevolence. There are few ways in which
I am so little ready to oblige my fellow-men. I had, indeed, at times, been induced to inspect
sundry romances in blotted embryo; but, as yet, nobody had called upon me with a system of
philosophy. Printed philosophy is none too easy reading. But to sit there, under the guardianship
of Clifton, and spell out the dim dogmatism of some nebulous fanatic,--of course it was not
to be thought of for a moment. With a suave periphrasis of speech I questioned the expediency
of the proposition.

"I shall ring for candles that will burn during the night," said Mr. Clifton, heedless of my
expostulation. "Also some refreshment. You take tea, I suppose? You shall read the first ten
pages of Vannelle's writing. It is possible you may exercise self-control enough to abandon
it unfinished. But you will not sleep tonight."

There was a confidence in the minister's tone which gave rather unpleasant emphasis to this
final prophecy. Still, I believed myself capable of the ten pages without establishing a hopelessly
wakeful condition,--indeed, it was something to be guarantied against the opposite infirmity.
The tea, accompanied by a few thin shavings of toast, presently arrived. The means of procuring
light were also furnished us. Clifton's hand lay heavily upon the manuscript until the attendant
had disappeared for the last time, and the door was locked behind him. He then opened the papers
before me, and signified that the time had come. I braced myself as for a serious undertaking.

Thus I accepted the task. How give words to the singular emotions which soon possessed me?
As if some charm, some spell of magnetism, had been given to the paper, my whole consciousness
was riveted upon it. I know not how to represent this bold, this startling attempt to establish
a positive basis for metaphysical philosophy, an exact science of all things human and divine.
Here was a man, perchance of more courage and conscience, perchance of more devilish recklessness,
than any of his contemporaries. But how deal with what came to me from that wondrous writing
in the ambiguities of common language? All thought--even supposing it embodied in a perfect
form of speech--is subject to the limitations of the recipient mind. My own glimpses of the
writer's meaning were necessarily most indistinct. I cannot attempt to transfer them. I was
controlled by a force not my own. The shadow of a mysterious power was over me. The mists of
sentimental pantheism were left far below the clear-cut summits whither the reader was invited
to ascend. There was an interpretation of Revelation far more removed from the apparent letter
than that of Swedenborg. Here was reaffirmed (though for a widely different purpose) what the
Romish Church has ever declared,--that the Scriptures, recording spiritual truth, cannot be
comprehensible to the natural understanding,--that, while the Sacred Writings contain a natural
letter, it can be translated into spiritual verity only by a few exceptional men. If this scheme
of philosophy was an idealism, it nevertheless manifested itself through the plainest realities.
The solution of the problem seemed to come not from one point, but from all points. Certainly
there was a tendency towards the supersensible; but this direction was taken through stern
grappling with the actual. At one time I struggled against the august spirit that was borne
in upon me; at another, I was utterly subdued by the lofty enthusiasm of the writer,--something
within me capable of absolute cognition seemed responding to his appeals. But the pith and
vitality of this marvel could be recognized only by long experience. And here the student was
required to stake his soul upon a perilous cast. For, if not pursued and fathomed to full satisfaction,
this view of things would be disturbing, paralyzing. With any half-acceptance a man might scarcely
live. It must fashion the mind as an artist fashions the passive metals into a musical instrument,
and then every event in time might touch it to exquisite harmony. But the more ravishing the
beauty which seemed offered through perfect realization of this knowledge, the more blighting
would be its effects, if entertained in the spirit of a selfish dilettanteism. For in certain
passages were breathed faint suggestions, that moral codes held sacred by the people could
not bind the initiated,--nay, that what seemed most evil might be so explained as to become
wholly legitimate to the elect.

It was far into the night. I had gone over about a third of the manuscript. Sharp questions
assailed my ears. Was I bound to jeopard all the common good of life for the chance of--just
failing to know existence from a higher plane? Could I ascend so far above the frailties of
average men as to receive in purity and innocence the license which acceptance of this strange
scheme would surely give? Dim-sighted as I was, it was necessary to rise and dispel this splendid
phantasm. I shuddered in sudden alarm at the danger which threatened me. By a spasmodic movement,
in which I failed to recognize any presence of my will, the manuscript was closed and handed
to Clifton. Welcome existence under coarsest and harshest terms, rather than tamper with such
fearful possibilities!

For hours the minister had gazed into my face, partaking the excitement to which he had subjected
me. He had lighted and trimmed the candles, as was necessary, but had never broken silence.
And now there came from him the deep sigh of relief from an absorbing interest; he sighed as
a little child when the fairytale is ended and the tense strain of attention may be relaxed.

"What was this man?" I demanded, hurriedly.

"What he was is to be discovered through these writings, if it may be found out at all. What
he was is not for me nor for you to know. It is possible that he may meet with competent judges
hereafter, even among men. Look at this address."

Clifton handed me a little memorandum relating to the ultimate disposition of the manuscript.
It was to remain for eighty years in the Mather Safe, and was then to be consigned to the occupant
of the Chair of Moral Philosophy in the College.

"Say rather to the last minority-candidate for the professorship!" I exclaimed. "I doubt if
the actual winner of that comfortable possession will feel disposed to abandon the market-worth
of conventional acquirements, and set forth as a humble student of unpopular truth."

The minister seemed struck with the suggestion, and made the alteration I had indicated.

The darkest hour of the night had come. Every sound of human activity had long ago ceased.
It was the quiet time when one may most easily probe an intense experience. I felt that more
was to be known,--something which the minister longed to tell,--something to which what he
had caused me to read was to serve as a prelude. I suspected how powerless must have been this
sensitive man in the presence of the Idea which he had carried. Doubtless, in one of his peculiar
tendencies, it might prevent all harmonious action,--it might ever goad the intellect, and
crush the heart. As the confession trembled upon the lips of Clifton, I signified my profound
sympathy. It is an awful moment, when a mature man tries to put off the solitariness of his life.

What was then communicated I can repeat only in the first person. The pathetic earnestness
of the speaker imprinted on my memory the very phrases that he used; there can be few verbal
changes as they now flow from the pen.

II.

NARRATIVE OF THE REVEREND CHARLES CLIFTON.

I am indebted for education to a bachelor uncle, who, after our great bereavement, received
at his house an infant sister and myself. I was at that time about twelve years old. My relative
enjoyed a handsome annuity, which he spent with the utmost liberality. As I was rather a thoughtful,
though not very studious boy, it was determined that I should go to college. I entered with
some difficulty soon after my seventeenth birthday,--an age somewhat later than the average
at that time.

Two years before me in college was the class of 18--. Upon the roll of its fifty-two members
stood the name of Herbert Vannelle. Rich, an orphan, inclined to thought and study beyond the
limited academic range of those days, endowed with personal fascinations of a very rare and
peculiar kind,--there seemed only one possible shadow to darken his career. In his family there
had been said to exist a tendency to eccentric independence of action, which vulgarly, perhaps
justly, passed for insanity. His father, who died soon after Herbert entered college, had given
much uneasiness to the wealthy and respectable city-circle with which he was socially connected.
Upon the death of his wife he had retired to the Vannelle homestead in the northwestern part
of Connecticut, and there lived in studious seclusion. There he insisted upon bringing up his
only son, deprived of such recreations and companionships as are suitable to youth. He had,
indeed, superintended his studies with patience and thoroughness, and had not failed to accomplish
him in the grace of physical power, at that time little recognized as a part of education.

So much was known of Vannelle when he appeared at college among the young men of the Junior
Class. And little more was known of him when he left America on the day his class graduated.
His connections with the other students had been very slight. He had never cared to acquire
that fluency in retailing the thoughts of others upon which college-rank depends. An access
to the library was all that he seemed to value in his connection with the institution. And
here he busied himself, not with the openings to the solid and rational sciences, but with
the bewildering sophistries of the school-philosophies, and their aimless wrangling over verbal
conceits.

At that time I happened to be taking a young man's first enchanting rounds upon the tread-mill
of metaphysics. At the library I often encountered Vannelle in search of some volume of which
I had just possessed myself. This led to an acquaintance. I was soon fascinated by a power
which streamed from his large, expressive eyes, and persuaded by a voice modulated in a pathos
and sweetness that I have heard in no other person. His influence upon me at this time was
not unlike that which the mesmerists had just begun to exercise. Yet, while he showed an interest
in directing my inquiries along the paths to which they naturally tended, he never communicated
the results of his own studies, or offered me the slightest assistance in generalizing my random
observations. What he thought himself, or by what writers he was influenced, it was not easy
to fathom. He was deeply acquainted with the writings of the New-England Transcendentalists,
then at their greatest notoriety, yet never for an instant seemed giddy upon the hazy heights
where those earnest spirits soared.

Vannelle spent two years in Germany, and returned to America about the time that my college-course
was finished. The little I knew of him during his absence was from the scattered notices of
newspaper-correspondents, who intimated that Herbert possessed the privilege of friendly intercourse
with men most distinguished for knowledge in the Old World. Just before Class-Day, I received
a letter dated from X----, in Connecticut, inviting me, in terms which seemed almost a command,
to spend the summer at the Vannelle homestead. Herbert had returned, and thus abruptly summoned
me. Intending to postpone until the autumn the study of a profession, I promised to come to
him for a few weeks,--a visit which might be extended, were it mutually agreeable.

There was, at that time, a day of weary staging after leaving the cars, before arriving in
the village of X----; there were also six rough miles of carriage-conveyance before the traveller
could attain the old house by the damp river-marsh whereto I was destined. When I arrived there,
Vannelle stood at the door to greet me.

"We have six months' concern together," he said, as if delivering himself of some studied speech,--"we
have six months' concern together; then we may stand at the parting of the ways,--we may cleave
to one another, or separate forever."

A low, dark house. The south-side planted out from the sun by pines and cedars. The parlors
covered with well-worn Turkey carpets, chafed into dusty ridges. The wretched window-glass
breaking and distorting the pine-trees without. Little oval mirrors distorting the human countenance
within. In the living-room (so called by those able to live in it) loomed a rusty air-tight
stove of cathedral proportion,--a ghastly altar which the bitterest enemy of the family might
feel fully justified in protecting. A square, cellarless room, about twenty feet from the house,
had been the study of the elder Vannelle. Tables covered with a confused mass of writing-materials.
A jumble of retorts and other chemical apparatus about the floor. Cabinets of the ugliest pattern
reached to the ceiling;--at first I supposed them to be made of painted wood; afterwards I
discovered they were of iron, and filled with rare books and manuscripts.

"My father built this study," said Vannelle, as we passed into it. "He wished to get rid of
those periodical clearings-up from which there is no escape in a New-England household. Mrs.
Brett, the wife of our farmer, could never resist the feminine itch to put things to rights.
She was always contriving to arrange papers and books in symmetrical piles where nothing could
be found. My father could never turn his back but she was sure to annihilate important scraps
of writing that were lying about the floor, and, under pretence of sweeping, invoke a simoom
of dust that hours were insufficient to allay. But when he built this room, and kept the key
of it, there was no more trouble."

I shudder as I hurry through these descriptions, for a confession which I hardly dare to put
into words must accompany them. All these surroundings, seen by me for the first time, had
a fearful familiarity. In some occult state of spiritual existence I seemed to have known them
all. I have learned that the soul may enter into communion with other minds otherwise than
through the senses,--nay, more, it may thus take an inexplicable cognizance of material things.
Of this I have had such proof as it would be infatuation to doubt. I was compelled to test
this startling suspicion for the first time.

"You need not take me up-stairs, Herbert," I said, as we returned to the house. "The picture
of your father, which hangs in the large chamber projecting over the porch, was doubtless a
good likeness of the mask he wore at city club-houses and family-dinners,--but the man as you
knew him here, how little does it resemble! As for the Chinese cabinet which stands between
the windows, it has associations, no doubt, but it is sadly out of repair. Those pink tiles
about the fireplace may be interesting to antiquaries; but I rather prefer the blue variety,
as corresponding to the mental state in which their infinitely pretentious subjects and execrable
drawing always put me."

The lightness of speech was painfully forced. Vannelle turned to me and said, slowly,--

"Have you been here before?"

"No."

"Has any one described to you this house or its contents?"

"No."

"Then thought has been conveyed from mind to mind in unconditioned purity. It is as I had supposed.
We are brothers forever."

The next day, after an early breakfast, Vannelle summoned me to the study. I glanced distrustfully
at the confusion of the room, which seemed in strange contrast with the exquisitely neat and
even fashionable attire of its proprietor. A smile of proud pity touched the lips of Vannelle,
as he seemed to divine my thought. Then, as if I had read them in letters of light, these words
seemed to answer me:--

"Shall we, the stewards and guardians of the highest interests of mankind, fret our souls at
trifles,--we, who are to be instruments in marshalling the race from slavery and folly to wisdom
and freedom? Behold, in one bound, the hovels and palaces of earth shall be alike, and, floating
free in spiritual space, we will win such dominion as the highest graduates in saintship dimly
perceived, but were never able to declare!"

These thoughts, energizing the brain of my companion, seemed thrown into my consciousness with
far more distinctness than if they had been uttered. It was with awe that this mystic correspondence
between mind and mind was made plain to me. One man out of this myriad-bodied humanity had
sought me out, and in his presence I was never more to be alone. The gigantic shadow of self
passed from me; I was as clay in the potter's hands!

At length Herbert spoke.

"Our work in this world is determined for us; mine is allotted to me,--not by my own choice.
I return to this house never to leave it till I go to join my father, with his great work more
nearly completed than when it came to my hands. At that table he died, with some glimpses of
the promised land whither he tended,--where he prayed that I might enter."

There escaped from me a feeble remonstrance,--no utterance of the heart, but rather a dry rattling
of such conventional proprieties as lingered in the memory.

"And you intend to leave this wholesome world,--you, whose career might be such as few have
it in their power to choose? You know, you must know, the wonderful gifts which you possess;
you cannot alone be ignorant of the fascination you might exercise over man and woman."

"I know all these temptations, and others that you cannot surmise," exclaimed Vannelle, "and
I will conquer them,--if not through spiritual grace, then by some bodily penance of lasting
effect. I discern in you certain qualities of mind that may serve to regulate the equipoise
of mine. I have the means to provide for us both during the high speculations in which we shall
engage. Let us be comrades in this undertaking. I seek to bridge the great gulf that separates
the natural from the spiritual. My father firmly believed in the possibility of obtaining an
absolute ground for the philosophy which should include all things human and divine. He passed
onward before the inestimable gift he seemed to have won could be set forth in the symbols
of the world. To see is not difficult, but only to contrive a popular adaptation through which
others may discern the thought. I seek the means to express the truth which he saw, and of
which I can catch some glimpses through such colored mythologies as represent the higher religions
of the world. Man has found out the knowledge by which a universe was evoked from chaos: shall
he not perfect that knowledge in the Law which includes the divine element by which the universe
is informed? How can we love with our whole heart what we do not know with our whole mind?
Clifton, I declare to you that knowledge of the Law by which the Creator is and acts is possible
to man!"

I shall seem to you weak and unstable in no common degree to have been moved by utterance like
this. Remember that I can reproduce only the words, not the wild power of that persuasive voice,
not the aspiring courage that struck me from his eye. Almost against my will there was produced
in me a plasticity of mind that seemed to demand the impress of some foreign mould. The tree
of knowledge was set in the midst of the garden, and again were audible the seductive serpent-tones:
"Your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil."

I found Vannelle so far my superior in the knowledge of all earthly lores, that I at length
came to think it possible he might be the appointed instrument of communicating the singular
intelligence that he sought. He proposed to review the different systems built by human thought
before applying himself to the problem of finding a system of philosophy which should include
them all. His idea was, that from the extreme negation of the so-called transcendental position--when
that position had been legitimately attained by a thoroughly conscientious thinker--some new
light must break upon the mind. His was no shrinking from the conflict with real things to
indulge in vague yearnings after the inaccessible, but a definite effort so to place the soul
and discipline the understanding that wisdom could be realized without process or media. Unlike
most inquirers of that time, he had no love for the abstract and the controversial, but entertained
them freely as finally discovering some path to the concrete and the unquestioned. He declared
that only to superficial persons was skepticism the terminus of speculative deism. Let me also
say this for my friend,--that his directing stimulus to action was neither ambition nor curiosity,
but what, had it been directed to any recognized end, the world would have called a religious
principle. He was never guilty of the shallow wickedness of seeking self-culture as an end;
he sought the highest self-culture only as a state of more passionate yearning for regeneration.

What need to tell how I was fascinated, mesmerized, into a humble companionship? how I became
inspired with his own mighty belief in the feasibility of the object he strove to attain? We
read together certain manuscripts of the elder Vannelle, in which, wrapt in a gorgeous symbolism,
seemed dimly to approach a great truth, which, at times, could be faintly perceived, but never
mastered. There were hints, apparently of the deepest significance, which, when the mind endeavored
to grasp them, vanished like a vision.

Day after day, almost night after night, for five months, I passed with Vannelle in the room
I have described. And during that vivid period I knew an intellectual intoxication which seemed
the pure ecstasy of spirit wholly delivered from the burden of the flesh. Vannelle talked like
one inspired upon the higher problems of metaphysical research, showing, or appearing to show,
in what sense the speculations of the philosophers were true, and in what sense absolutely
false. We seemed to have cut ourselves adrift from the human race, and to look down upon it
from a position whence its basest moral corruptions and most detestable oppressions marked
the rhythm in a majestic poem. The infinite vagaries of crime, the unspeakable ecstasies of
blessedness, were equally wholesome as equally full of Law. At times it seemed impossible that
any words could so mould themselves as to give distinctness to the thought which flashed through
our minds. At times a representation corresponding to what Vannelle so eloquently uttered seemed
embodied in every phase of opinion man had known. But, alas, there were also periods of doubt
and despair analogous to those which succeed physical intoxication. The grosser systems of
antiquity were not only considered, but actually personated in our experience. Here it was
necessary for us to penetrate into some of the darkest recesses of the human soul, and to test
how nearly allied is that which exalts man to that which degrades him, how the noblest virtues
plunge headlong into the maddest passions. Yet we learned to welcome these convulsions of Chaos
and Old Night, as blindly bearing us onward towards our destined goal.

--But enough of this. I would only faintly express how terribly real was the delusion (the
world would so call it, and who am I to gainsay it?) which has overhung my earthly life.

Let me tell in briefest words how the spell was broken,--partially broken. During those months
of passionate exaltation, letters from friends once dear to me had been thrown aside half-read,
and wholly valueless. On the eleventh of November I started,--as a black seal was to be broken.
My uncle had suddenly died. The last instalment of his annuity had been paid, and my little
sister, an orphan and penniless, was thrown upon me for education and support. Shame to me
that I then hesitated! Yet it was some hours before I could persuade myself to put the letter
into Vannelle's hand, and say that I must abandon him forever. Let me forget the bitter temptation.
Of course my friend begged to provide for my sister from his own ample means, and even offered
her an asylum at his house. I still retained sufficient sanity to perceive the wrong of bringing
a young child to that dismal place to wither removed from all human companionship and sympathy.
A spirit not in a condition to be sustained and elevated by the society of Herbert would be
confused, and finally petrified. Had this refined probing and questioning deadened all sense
of duty? Was this the end of my Absolute Philosophy, that the intellect should usurp the place
of the conscience and the moral law? Shame to me that I could have paused to ask such questions!
yet any claim but one tittle less urgent I should have bantered aside. I seemed to realize
the torture described in the dream of Dante,--two souls struggling together in one frail body.
I had been applauding good and condemning evil when it cost me nothing but the sentiment; but
when the fiery test came, my purpose cracked and shrivelled before it. Yes, I conquered; but
the scars that purchased the victory have ached through my life.

There was but one calling wherein it seemed possible for me to earn my bread; for how could
I descend to chaffer in the market, to trim and huckster through the world,--I, who had thought
to condition the Spirit of the Universe? But there were metaphors faintly shadowing divine
things, symbols adapted to the limitations of the popular mind, and with these I might do an
honest work for the souls of men. Honest? Yes,--unless Augustine was a hypocrite, when he declared
that he spoke of the Unseen as unity in three persons, less to say something than not to remain
altogether silent. To a certain order of minds among the clergy this is the daily cross,--the
necessity of maintaining a fixed position, and ever looking down from it to teach, instead
of ever yearning upward to be taught.

It is enough to say, that, supporting myself and my sister by school-teaching, I achieved such
courses of reading as are supposed to qualify for enrolment among the liberal clergy of New
England. Until the time when my sister left me by marriage I was settled at N----, on the Connecticut.
Soon after this event, died old Dr. P---- of Foxden, and I received a call to his vacant parish.
I knew that the sort of society to be found in that place would minister to my most urgent
need. I craved some intellectual clanship which should never seek to rise to an equal spiritual
companionship. For there was only one man to whom I might speak freely, and from him my path
ever diverged. How far apart the years had led us! Sometimes there came a whisper that I had
been snatched from the hand of Satan, killer of souls; sometimes my only opportunities of salvation
seemed left in that sad, damp homestead. I could never return to him; I could never be wholly
free from him. Ever was I controlled by a shadowy force which reached me from his abundant
power. No occupation was so absorbing as to protect me from the invading presence of Herbert
Vannelle.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first Sunday of the present month brought the twentieth anniversary of the day that I parted
from Vannelle. In the morning I had preached a written sermon on those solemn words of the
Apostle, "Whatsoever is not of faith is sin." For the first time I shrank from the consciousness
that the words uttered were true to me in a very different sense from that in which the congregation
received them. I found it difficult to poise in tremulous balance between Truth and its available
representation to common men. It is my custom to preach extemporaneously in the afternoon.
Upon rising, after the introductory services, I could perceive that my pulse and breathing
were accelerated. A certain numbness of the brain seemed pierced with convulsive, fugitive
shocks. An inexplicable influence, a command for cerebral sympathy, seemed beating at my forehead.
I turned the sacred pages before me, but could find nothing upon which to base my remarks.
But to my lips would come incessantly a passage from Sir Thomas Browne.

An extraordinary impetus seemed imparted to my mental powers. Men have said that I spoke with
a fluency and eloquence unknown to them before. Indeed, I was conscious of a capacity to receive
and convey such portions of divine wisdom as corresponded to their needs. To speak in figure,
my heavenly race was as if the Lord of Evil pursued my soul.

Thoroughly exhausted by the effort, I returned to my study and threw myself upon a sofa. More
fully than ever before, I entered that state where one far distant may make himself perceived
and known. The occult power of foreknowing events, the delicate perception of forbidden things,
worked their abnormal invigoration in the brain. I became conscious that a carriage miles off
was rolling nearer and nearer; I knew that it would stop at my door. I waited, waited long
into the night. One by one went out the scattered village-lights. Another consciousness of
twenty years seemed compressed into those brilliant, bitter hours. My lamp flickered. I rose
with effort and supplied oil; it would now burn till morning. The carriage came nearer. I knew
that Vannelle was in it. At last the heavy rumble ceased at the door.

A figure stood before me. The old fascination in the eyes; a soul burning with lofty enthusiasm
looked through and kindled them. But the face,--it was ghastly, livid as the face of a leper:
it was spectral,--blanched and dried with the white flames of his exalted vigils. Ah, black
eyes, well may you shine in terrible triumph! The old idolatry this man demanded of me would
not be repelled. I gazed upon my visitor as upon a phantom from another sphere, and knew no
reckoning of time. His magnetism was upon me; I could only crouch into myself--and wait. At
length the silence was broken.

"Charles Clifton, teacher of the people, listen that you may be taught! For the last time I
have come down into your world of passion and sense. The impulses with which you vainly strive
and wrestle are behind me. Alone, alone, I have risen from the abysmal depths of personality.
I have struggled fiercely. I have also conquered."

The livid face showed no change. It suddenly came to me, that, by some voluntary disfigurement
of his exquisite beauty of feature, this man had cut away the lusts for pleasure, fame, and
influence. What woman would kiss that ghastly cheek? What sycophant could fawn and smirk in
that chilly presence? The injunctions concerning the offending eye and hand Vannelle had interpreted
literally.

"I hold," he continued, "the noble prize of intellectual satisfaction seized by effort. Multiply
the self-satisfactions of earth by infinity, and you may guess a little of the sublime contentment
which wraps me round! Does the best stage-trick of your liberal clergy help them to anything
but a plasticity of mind to be moulded into artistic forms of skepticism? How can you feel
the delight of a definite, positive affirmation which accounts for and includes all creeds
and lives of men? How can you come out from your partial dogmas to enter Truth and find it
alone dogmatic and compulsive? Clifton, I pity you. I would rescue you from this haze of thought
and feeling,--I, who have even now discarded Intelligence and enthroned Wisdom."

"I hope to be pardoned," I said,--"the current of this life sets so in favor of Utility and
the Practical; men long to be fed with sentiment,--why try to give them ideas?"

"Fulfil, then, forever your little round of decencies and proprieties," exclaimed Vannelle;
"I judge you not. Perchance your weakness is the pardonable weakness of one who has done his
best. You may be guiltless in failing to attain the strength, the glory, of a true conviction."

"Is it too late?" I asked, faintly.

"It is the question I must put to you," replied Herbert. "I bring you in this manuscript the
result of my life,--the result of two lives. Here is written, as clearly as can be written
in gross symbols of human language, that which may suggest the Absolute, the Alpha and Omega,
the System, not humanly built upon hypothesis, but divinely founded upon Law."

I knew that a package had been placed upon the table at my side.

"If you can so far command the fragmentary life you lead as to give this manuscript the sober,
searching thought which it invites, the truth may be brought to you. But if these twenty years
have only filled you with the pride of inventing arguments and detecting analogies, if they
have only given you the petty skill of a petty scholar, why then dally on with a tinsel variety
of superficial attainments, and give others the blessed privilege you are not strong enough
to accept."

"Take it from me," I said. "It has haunted me too long. What you may have found, it is for
your honor to promulgate."

"The finding is enough for one life," replied Vannelle. "The spiritual manhood is indeed complete,
but the shell which enclosed it totters towards earth. My responsibility in this matter is
at an end: yours will now begin."

A tremor ran through my frame as he spoke these words. A mystery rigid as Fate seemed to shackle
me. Without seeing him go, I knew that Vannelle had left the room. Again was I conscious of
the carriage-rumble growing fainter, fainter, fainter in the distance. A dream of passionate
excitement, a phantasmagoria of old wishes, old hopes, of the life I might have led, flew before
me. For a moment the energy of Vannelle seemed to have transfused itself through every fibre.
An unquenchable thirst that I had never summoned struck into my brain. I seized the manuscript,
and devoured page after page. Then I felt the approaches of a supreme despotism that might
annihilate all I had been, all I hoped to be,--that might compel me to denounce all that I
had taught, to hear all that was respectable and healthy in the world jeer at me as an impostor,
an enthusiast, a madman. It was not that I was simply invited to come above the ordinary doctrines
of the day, and stand supported and encouraged by a few advanced minds; but I was called to
place myself where the most earnest souls--unless a second birth could be granted them--would
scoff with the ignorance and intolerance of the mass.

At last the gray light of morning shone upon me.

One of my deacons, whistling sturdily, passed along the street. A physical emanation from his
healthy vitality partially counteracted the influence of the night. Gathering up every muscle
of my feeble will, I closed the manuscript forever. Hereditary imperfections of body and mind
confine me to a sphere of reputable usefulness. If I have sinned in the past, I have also suffered.
If, as I sometimes suspect, I have thrust from me the grandest opportunity ever offered to
man, the loss through all eternity will be mine.

In eight days I heard of the death of Herbert Vannelle.

III.

As the last words of his strange narration fell from Clifton's lips, he bowed his head and
was greatly agitated. The vast theologic conception over which he had so long brooded, instead
of lifting him on high, had crushed him to the earth. His moral consciousness had demanded
a satisfaction which he lacked integrity of purpose to pursue and challenge. A fixed conviction
of the dreariest pessimism would have been better for this man than the lofty uncertainty which
had tortured his days; for in the belief that one may neither struggle nor aspire there is
a certain practical drift. But how shall he do any good who bears about him a quick conscience,
a skeptical understanding, sensitive religious affections, and a feeble will? Charles Clifton
had neither the leisure, nor possibly the application, to follow the creeping advances of systematic
knowledge. He had listened to a fatal persuasion, and at the same time had sought to satisfy
contradictory principles of the human mind. The kindest thing I could do for him was soon perceived.

"Reverend Sir," I said, "you must permit me to advise you. It is now six o'clock. In an hour
the early train leaves for Foxden. You must take it and return home. Any further vacuum in
your daily employment will produce a crushing pressure from without that might endanger reason
itself. I solemnly promise to deposit this manuscript in the Mather Safe,--nay, I will not
leave town until the President and Treasurer have met me this afternoon according to your agreement.
I pledge you my honor that the parchment shall be consigned to its resting-place with every
necessary formality."

My companion gazed long upon vacancy before returning any answer. He strove to dispel the cloud-pageantry
which had sailed above him in shapeless beauty. He walked up and down the chamber, paused,
threw open the window, and looked upon the street below. I felt that every petty detail of
man's daily craft struck outlines of painful vividness upon the morbid sensibility of his condition.
Finally he spoke to this effect: --

"A grief has been lessened in giving it words. My deepest and most solitary moments have been
revealed to human sympathy, and the relief is great. It may be that I have been created to
some wholesome end,--that some truth may shine before the world through what seems the failure
of my life. I will return at once to the sphere of the senses: it is, as you say, all that
is left me. Let who will inquire into the significance and purpose of the Universe; it is for
me to work in the bondage of the flesh, to be the humble tool of the age in which my lot is cast."

Yet it was not easy to induce the clergyman to commit to my care the conclusion of the enterprise
which had brought him to town. His peculiar nervous temperament foretold a thousand accidents
that might befall the precious legacy of his friend. It was only by addressing his reason in
repeated arguments, and by solemnly asseverating my entire fidelity, that I induced him to yield.

It was a gracious gift to be once more alone.

I seemed awakened from a dream of pining exultation, of dark foreboding. Without acknowledging
it to myself, I had been strangely wrought upon by what I had read and heard. As Clifton emerged
from the magical influence of Vannelle, was it not concentrated upon me? The impulse to return
to the perusal of the manuscript was almost irresistible. Yet it was evident, that, failing
to receive as my very life what was there written, I should become hopelessly entangled in
discrepancies and contradictions. A glance at the imminent peril sent me shuddering to my only
safety.

It has been mentioned that I had interested myself in some inquiries tending to modify the
received understanding of a certain natural law. During my morning in the College Library I
had collected the records of many facts, which, laboriously compared, might confirm the hypothesis
I had conceived. I now braced myself to the task of tracing an order in these random observations.
I was soon stimulated by perceiving that my statistics seemed to confirm the justice of the
reasoning which at first roused my suspicion. More and more plainly did man's experience respond
to the results I had dared to predict. Trivial circumstances, noted in remote times and disconnected
places, pointed in one direction, and there beat the regular pulse of Nature.

It is perhaps a little humiliating to mention, what I afterwards discovered, that the doctrine
which I endeavored to reach had been already conceived and passed upon by a not very eminent
scientist in one of the Western States. But at that time absorption in the search for attainable
truth was necessary to my welfare; and, with very brief intervals for rest and refreshment,
I continued my pursuit until the afternoon-hour for visiting the library.

The President and Treasurer entered the building at five o'clock.

For some minutes I had stood before the massive doors of the Mather Safe, wondering if any
of its mysterious contents could be more singular than the consignment about to be made to
its keeping.

"Is Mr. Clifton of Foxden in the library?" inquired the President.

"I am here to represent him," I replied. "He made a strange mistake in the day of appointment,
and was compelled to leave town this morning. The package which he wished to deposit in the
Mather Safe I hold in my hand."

"Lex Universalis Naturæ; THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE ABSOLUTE," exclaimed the Treasurer, reading
the inscription upon the outer parchment. "Poh, poh! I thought that sort of philosophy had
long ago been handed over to the limbo of fallacies."

"By those who have neither feeling nor imagination enough to care for anything not transmutable
into dollars, perhaps it has," I rejoined, somewhat tartly.

"Come, come!" said the President, in his good-natured, rolling tones; "since the days of the
great Jonathan, our New-England metaphysicians have generally been broken-down poets, and should
be treated with the greatest tenderness. Some flighty minds will prefer dangerous trips to
dream-land to the rigid demonstrations of figures; but the mass of our graduates accept the
teaching of their Alma Mater, that only the mathematician has the right to investigate, and
that of all philosophers only natural philosophers are competent instructors."

"Yet, Sir," I said, "you will remember that the time was when your natural philosophers were
persecuted as wizards by Church and State. Even the mathematician is defined by an old lexicographer
to be 'Magus dæmonum invocator'; and I cannot forget that all that is of honor and respect
to-day is but the actual of a once despised ideal."

I really marvelled at my own audacity in presuming to question the words of this distinguished
and excellent gentleman. Indeed, it was particularly surprising, because (if I knew myself)
I precisely agreed with him. But there is a certain waywardness in my composition, which loves
to puncture an inflated conventionality, even when I myself am most conventional.

In the mean time the Treasurer, taking the President's key with his own, had opened the Safe.
I looked in and beheld coffers of lead and oak, nooks and pigeon-holes covered and sealed with
the College seal, little cells of glass which appeared to hold documents of the utmost importance,
and, in short, whatever might best defy the injuries of time. The weighty book which registered
the contents of the Safe was opened before me. I was told to write the number assigned to the
manuscript, to describe its present condition, and to indicate its destination. This I carefully
did, and was about to confide my charge to its long oblivion.

"Stay!" said the President. "You have forgotten the mottoes! Here is only one; and it is our
rule that every deposit in the Mather Safe be distinguished by three, in as many languages.

  'Alteri Sæculo.'

The selection is good, though it has already been adopted by a Massachusetts statesman. It
is now for you to supply two others."

Singular as it may appear, this sudden call to perform a trifling office which I had not anticipated,
filled me with a conflict of emotions. In choosing another's words, I seemed to indorse or
repudiate the strange matter with which they were to be associated. I thought of Vannelle's
wondrous language, of Clifton's exhilaration, and of the vivid buoyancy with which my spirit
had striven to rise. I even groped for some phrase which might hint what delicate aërial impressions
had tended to condense the soul on the supreme point of spiritual ecstasy. But memory was a
blank when I demanded words for this seeming-glorious fact in the experience of humanity. Success
was made impossible by the very intensity of the effort to summon an appropriate message to
be dropped over the abyss of Time. I was confident that there were many apt things which might
be said, if I could come at them, as it were, sideways. In order that I might take them at
this advantage, I snatched a letter from my pocket, and began to read. My eye was soon caught
by the impression of a seal that I had once given my wife. It was a good [woman's] motto, I
jestingly told her; and now it was returned to me at my sorest need. Six little words of the
good Pascal,--

  "Le plus sûr est de croire."

Something compelled me to write them, and a new freedom was with me when I had done so.

"Make haste, make haste, for the prayer-bell is ringing!" cried the President "See, here is
a copy of Plato's 'Phædrus,'--a work which our vapory brethren are fond of quoting, generally
at second-hand; perhaps you may pick out a sentence that will prophesy with sufficient ambiguity."

But it was not Plato or his "Phædrus" that then claimed my thoughts. There loomed a Rock graven
with more august instruction than the sage of the Academy was privileged to communicate,--a
Rock against which the heaving surface of human opinion had chafed and broken in vain. Tossed
to and fro upon the tide of life, who has not sometimes listened to the wrangling voices which
shouted, "Mystical Interpretation," "Absolute Fiction," "Huge Conglomerate of Myths"? Whose
eye has never been caught by the sparkling tinsel of modern philosophies, with their Seers,
Heroes, Missions, Developments, Insights, Principles of Nature, Clairvoyance, and Magnetic
Currents? Happy those who are able to return to that one channel through which magnetic currents
have indeed descended from an unseen sphere, and touched the noblest hearts! For there is a
certain mediation between the necessities and aspirations of man,--an assured deliverance from
the gross and sordid surroundings of his earthly life. There came before me one simple period
from a familiar Book. Most direct and confident is the solemn statement. I wrote it as the
final motto.

     "NOW THE SERPENT WAS MORE SUBTILE THAN ANY BEAST OF THE FIELD WHICH
     THE LORD GOD HAD MADE."

THE TERTIARY AGE, AND ITS CHARACTERISTIC ANIMALS.

In entering upon the Tertiaries, we reach that geological age which, next to his own, has the
deepest interest for man. The more striking scenes of animal life, hitherto confined chiefly
to the ocean, are now on land; the extensive sheets of fresh water are filled with fishes of
a comparatively modern character,--with Whitefish, Pickerel, Perch, Eels, etc.,--while the
larger quadrupeds are introduced upon the continents so gradually prepared to receive them.
The connection of events throughout the Tertiaries, considered as leading up to the coming
of man, may be traced not only in the physical condition of the earth, and in the presence
of the large terrestrial Mammalia, but also in the appearance of those groups of animals and
plants which we naturally associate with the domestic and social existence of man. Cattle and
Horses are first found in the middle Tertiaries; the grains, the Rosaceæ, with their variety
of fruits, the tropical fruit-trees, Oranges, Bananas, etc., the shade- and cluster-trees,
so important to the comfort and shelter of man, are added to the vegetable world during these
epochs. The fossil vegetation of the Tertiaries is, indeed, most interesting from this point
of view, showing the gradual maturing and completion of those conditions most intimately associated
with human life. The earth had already its seasons, its spring and summer, its autumn and winter,
its seed-time and harvest, though neither sower nor reaper was there; the forests then, as
now, dropped their thick carpet of leaves upon the ground in the autumn, and in many localities
they remain where they originally fell, with a layer of soil between the successive layers
of leaves,--a leafy chronology, as it were, by which we read the passage of the years which
divided these deposits from each other. Where the leaves have fallen singly on a clayey soil
favorable for receiving such impressions, they have daguerreotyped themselves with the most
wonderful accuracy, and the Oaks, Poplars, Willows, Maples, Walnuts, Gum- and Cinnamon-trees,
etc., of the Tertiaries are as well known to us as are those of our own time.

It was an eventful day, not only for science, but for the world, when a Siberian fisherman
chanced to observe a singular mound lying near the mouth of the River Lena, where it empties
into the Arctic Ocean. During the warmer summer-weather, he noticed, that, as the snow gradually
melted, this mound assumed a more distinct and prominent outline, and at length, on one side
of it, where the heat of the sun was greatest, a dark body became exposed, which, when completely
uncovered, proved to be that of an immense elephant, in so perfect a state of preservation
that the dogs and wolves were attracted to it as by the smell of fresh meat, and came to feed
upon it at night. The man knew little of the value of his discovery, but the story went abroad,
and an Englishman travelling in Russia, being curious to verify it, visited the spot, and actually
found the remains where they had been reported to lie, on the frozen shore of the Arctic Sea,--strange
burial-place enough for an animal never known to exist out of tropical climates. Little beside
the skeleton was left, though parts of the skin remained covered with hair, showing how perfect
must have been the condition of the body when first exposed. The tusks had been sold by the
fisherman; but Mr. Adams succeeded in recovering them; and collecting all the bones except
those of one foot, which had been carried off by the wolves, he had them removed to St. Petersburg,
where the skeleton now stands in the Imperial Museum. The inhabitants of Siberia seem to be
familiar with this animal, which they designate by the name of Mammoth, while naturalists call
it Elephas primigenius. The circumstance that they abound in the frozen drift of the great
northern plain of Asia, and are occasionally exposed in consequence of the wearing of the large
rivers traversing Siberia, has led to the superstition among the Tongouses, that the Mammoths
live under ground, and die whenever, on coming to the surface, the sunlight falls upon them.

Had this been the only creature of the kind found so far from the countries to which elephants
are now exclusively confined, it might have been believed that some strange accident had brought
it to the spot where it was buried. But it was not long before similar remains were found in
various parts of Europe,--in Russia, in Germany, in Spain, and in Italy. The latter were readily
accounted for by the theory that they must be the remains of the Carthaginian elephants brought
over by the armies of Hannibal, while it was suggested that the others might have been swept
from India by some great flood, and stranded where they were found. It was Cuvier, entitled
by his intimate acquaintance with the anatomy of living animals to an authoritative opinion
in such matters, who first dared to assert that these remains belonged to no elephant of our
period. He rested this belief upon structural evidence, and insisted that an Indian elephant,
brought upon the waves of a flood to Siberia, would be an Indian elephant still, while all
these remains differed in structure from any species existing at present. This statement aroused
research in every direction, and the number of fossil Mammalia found within the next few years,
and proved by comparison to be different from any living species, soon demonstrated the truth
of his conclusion.

Shortly after the discovery of fossil elephants had opened this new path of investigation,
some curious bones were found by some workmen in the quarries of Montmartre, near Paris, and
brought to Cuvier for examination. Although few in number, and affording but very scanty data
for such a decision, he at once pronounced them to be the remains of some extinct animal preceding
the present geological age. Here, then, at his very door, as it were, was a settlement of that
old creation in which he could pursue the inquiry, already become so important in its bearings.
It was not long before other bones of the same kind were found, though nothing as yet approaching
an entire skeleton. However, with such means as he had, Cuvier began a comparison with all
the living Mammalia,--with the human skeleton first, with Monkeys, with the larger Carnivora
and Ruminants, then with all the smaller Mammalia, then with the Pachyderms; and here, for
the first time, he began to find some resemblance. He satisfied himself that the animal must
have belonged to the family of Pachyderms; and he then proceeded to analyze and compare all
the living species, till he had collected ample evidence to show that the bones in question
did not correspond with any species, and could not even be referred to any genus, now in existence.
At length there was discovered at Montmartre an upper jaw of the same animal,--next a lower
jaw, matching the upper one, and presently a whole head with a few backbones was brought to
light. These were enough, with Cuvier's vast knowledge of animal structure, to give him a key
to the whole skeleton. At about the same time, in the same locality, were found other bones
and teeth also, differing from those first discovered, and yet equally unlike those of any
living animal. The first evidently belonged to some stout and heavy animal, the others were
more slender and of lighter build. From these fragments, ample evidence to him of his results,
he drew the outlines of two animals: one which he called the Palæotherium, (old animal,) a
figure of which is given in the above wood-cut, and the other Anoplotherium, (animal without
fangs). He presented these figures with an explanatory memoir at the Academy, and announced
them as belonging to some creation preceding the present, since no such animals had ever existed
in our own geological period. Such a statement was a revelation to the scientific world: some
looked upon it with suspicion and distrust; others, who knew more of comparative anatomy, hailed
it as introducing a new era in science; but it was not till complete specimens were actually
found of animals corresponding perfectly to those figured and described by Cuvier, and proving
beyond a doubt their actual existence in ancient times, that all united in wonder and admiration
at the result obtained by him with such scanty means.

It would seem that the family of Pachyderms was largely represented among the early Mammalia;
for, since Cuvier named these species, a number of closely allied forms have been found in
deposits belonging to the same epoch. Of course, the complete specimens are rare; but the fragments
of such skeletons occur in abundance, showing that these old-world Pachyderms, resembling the
Tapirs more than any other living representatives of the family, were very numerous in the
lower Tertiaries.

There is, however, one animal now in existence, forming one of those singular links before
alluded to between the present and the past, of which I will say a few words here, though its
relation is rather with a later group of Tertiary Pachyderms than with those described by Cuvier.
On the coast of Florida there is an animal of very massive, clumsy build, long considered to
be a Cetacean, but now recognized, by some naturalists at least, as belonging to the order
of Pachyderms. In form it resembles the Cetaceans, though it has a fan-shaped tail, instead
of the broad flapper of the Whales. It inhabits fresh waters or shoal waters, and is not so
exclusively aquatic as the oceanic Cetaceans. Its most striking feature is the form of the
lower jaw, which is bent downward, with the front teeth hanging from it. This animal is called
the Manatee, or Sea-Cow. There are three species known to naturalists,--one in Tampa Bay, one
in the Amazon, and one in Africa. In the Tertiary deposits of Germany there has been found
an animal allied in some of its features to those described by Cuvier, but it has the crown
of its teeth folded like the Tapir, while the lower jaw is turned down with a long tusk growing
from it. This animal has been called the Dinotherium. A part of the head, showing the heavy
jaws and the formidable tusk, is represented in the subjoined wood-cut.

Its hanging lower jaw, with the protruding tusk, corresponds perfectly to the formation of
the lower jaw and teeth in the Manatee. Some resemblance of the Dinotherium to the Mastodon
suggested a comparison with that animal as the next step in the investigation, when it was
found that at the edge of the lower jaw of the latter there was a pit with a small projecting
tooth, also corresponding exactly in its position to the tusk in the Dinotherium. The Elephant
was now examined; and in him also a rudimentary tooth appeared in the lower jaw, not cut through,
but placed in the same relation to the jaw and the other teeth as that of the Mastodon. It
would seem, then, that the Manatee makes one in this series of Dinotherium, Mastodon, and Elephant,
and represents the aquatic Pachyderms, occupying the same relation to the terrestrial Pachyderms
as the Seals bear to the terrestrial Carnivora, and, like them, lowest in structure among their
kind.

The announcement of Cuvier's results stimulated research, and from this time forward Tertiary
Mammalia became the subject of extensive and most important investigations among naturalists.
The attention of collectors once drawn to these remains, they were found in such numbers that
the wonder was how they had been so long hidden from the observation of men. They remind us
chiefly of tropical animals; indeed, Tigers, Hyenas, Rhinoceroses, Hippopotamuses, Mastodons,
and Elephants had their home in countries which now belong to the Cold Temperate Zone, showing
that the climate in these latitudes was much milder then than it is at present. Bones of many
of these animals were found in caverns in Germany, France, Italy, and England. Perhaps the
story of Kirkdale Cave, where the first important discovery of this kind was made on English
soil, may not be so well known to American readers as to forbid its repetition here.

It was in the summer of 1821 that some workmen, employed in quarrying stone upon the slope
of a limestone hill at Kirkdale, in Yorkshire, came accidentally upon the mouth of a cavern.
Overgrown with grass and bushes, the mouth of this cave in the hill-side had been effectually
closed against all intruders, and it was not strange that its existence had never been suspected.
The hole was small, but large enough to admit a man on his hands and knees; and the workmen,
creeping in through the opening, found that it led into a cavern, broad in some parts, but
low throughout. There were only a few spots where a man could stand upright; but it was quite
extensive, with branches opening out from it, some of which have not yet been explored. The
whole floor was strewn, from one end to the other, with hundreds of bones, like a huge dog-kennel.
The workmen wondered a little at their discovery, but, remembering that there had been a murrain
among the cattle in this region some years before, they came to the conclusion that these must
be the bones of cattle that had died in great numbers at that time; and, having so settled
the matter to their own satisfaction, they took little heed to the bones, but threw many of
them out on the road with the common limestone. Fortunately, a gentleman, living in the neighborhood,
whose attention had been attracted to them, preserved them from destruction; and a few months
after the discovery of the cave, Dr. Buckland, the great English geologist, visited Kirkdale,
to examine its strange contents, which proved indeed stranger than any one had imagined; for
many of these remains belonged to animals never before found in England. The bones of Hyenas,
Tigers, Elephants, Rhinoceroses, and Hippopotamuses were mingled with those of Deer, Bears,
Wolves, Foxes, and many smaller creatures. The bones were gnawed, and many were broken, evidently
not by natural decay, but seemed to have been snapped violently apart. After the most complete
investigation of the circumstances, Dr. Buckland convinced himself, and proved to the satisfaction
of all scientific men, that the cave had been a den of Hyenas[A] at a time when they, as well
as Tigers, Elephants, Rhinoceroses, etc., existed in England in as great numbers as they now
do in the wildest parts of tropical Asia or Africa. The narrow entrance to the cave still retained
the marks of grease and hair, such as one may see on the bars of a cage in a menagerie against
which the imprisoned animals have been in the habit of rubbing themselves constantly, and there
were marks of the same kind on the floor and walls.

[Footnote A: Among the other facts showing that Kirkdale Cave had been the den of these animals,
and not tenanted as their home by any of the other creatures whose remains occurred there,
were the excrements of the Hyenas found in considerable quantity by Dr. Buckland, and identified
as such by the keeper of a menagerie. Any one who may wish to read the whole history of Dr.
Buckland's investigations of this matter, showing the patience and sagacity with which he collected
and arranged the evidence, will find a full account of Kirkdale Cave and other caverns containing
fossil bones in his "Reliquiæ Diluvianæ."]

It was evident that the Hyenas were the lords of this ancient cavern, and the other animals
their unwilling guests; for the remains of the latter were those which had been most gnawed,
broken, and mangled; and the head of an enormous Hyena, with gigantic fangs found complete,
bore ample evidence to their great size and power. Some of the animals, such as the Elephants,
Rhinoceroses, etc., could not have been brought into the cave without being first killed and
torn to pieces, for it is not large enough to admit them. But their gnawed and broken bones
attest, nevertheless, that they were devoured like the rest; and probably the Hyenas then had
the same propensity which characterizes those of our own time, to tear in pieces the body of
any dead animal, and carry it to their den to feed upon it apart.

While Kirkdale Cave was evidently the haunt of Hyenas chiefly, other caverns in Germany and
France were tenanted in a similar manner by a gigantic species of Bear. Their remains, mingled
with those of the animals on which they fed, have been found in great numbers in the Cavern
of Gailenreuth, in Franconia. The subjoined wood-cut shows the head of this formidable beast,
which must have exceeded in size any Bear now living. Indeed, although there were many smaller
kinds, and the other types of the Animal Kingdom in the Tertiaries seem to approach very nearly
both in size and general character their modern representatives, yet, on the whole, the earlier
Mammalia were giants in comparison with those now living. The Mastodon and Mammoth, as compared
with the modern Elephant, the Megatherium, as compared with the Sloths of present times, the
Hyenas and Bears of the European caverns, and the fossil Elk of Ireland, by the side of which
even the Moose of our Northern woods is belittled, are remarkable instances in proof of this.
One cannot but be struck with the fact that this first representation of Mammalia, the very
impersonation of brute force in power, size, and ferocity, immediately preceded the introduction
of man, with whose creation intelligence and moral strength became the dominant influences
on earth.

Among these huge Tertiary Mammalia, one of those most common on the North-American continent
seems to have been the Mastodon. The magnificent specimens preserved in this country are too
well known to require description. The remains of the Rhinoceros occur also in the recent Tertiary
deposits of North America, though as yet no perfect skeletons have been found. The Edentata,
now confined to South America and the western coast of Africa, were also numerous in the Southern
States during that time; their remains have been found as far north as the Salt Lick in Kentucky.
But we must not judge of the Tertiary Edentata by any now known to us. The Sloths, the Armadillos,
the Ant-Eaters, the Pangolins, are all animals of rather small size; but formerly they were
represented by the gigantic Megatherium, the Megalonyx, and the Mylodon, some of which were
larger than the Elephant, and others about the same size of the Rhinoceros or Hippopotamus.
The subjoined wood-cut represents a Mylodon in the act of lifting himself against the trunk
of a tree.

They were clumsy brutes, and though their limbs were evidently built with reference to powerful
movements, perhaps climbing, or at least rising on their hind quarters, the act of climbing
with them cannot have had anything of the nimbleness or activity generally associated with
it. On the contrary, they probably were barely able to support their huge bodies on their hind
limbs, which are exceedingly massive, and on the stiff, heavy tail, while they dragged down
with their front limbs the branches of the trees, and fed upon them at leisure. The Zoölogical
Museum at Cambridge is indebted to the generosity of Mr. Joshua Bates for a very fine set of
casts taken from the Megatherium in the British Museum. They are now mounted, and may be seen
in one of the exhibition-rooms of the building. Large Reptiles, but very unlike those of the
Cretaceous and Jurassic epochs, belonging chiefly to the types of Turtles, Crocodiles, Pythons,
and Salamanders, existed during the Tertiary epochs. The wood-cut below represents a gigantic
Salamander of the Tertiary deposits. It is a curious fact, illustrative of the ignorance of
all anatomical science in those days, that, when the remains of this reptile (Audrias, as it
is now called) were first discovered toward the close of the seventeenth century, they were
described by old Professor Scheuchzer as the bones of an infant destroyed by the Deluge, and
were actually preserved, not for their scientific value, but as precious relics of the Flood,
and described in a separate pamphlet, entitled, "Homo Diluvii Testis." Among the Tertiary Reptiles
the Turtles seem to have been a very prominent type, by their size as well as by their extensive
distribution. Their remains have been found both in the far West and in the East. The fossil
Turtles of Nebraska are well known to American naturalists; but the Oriental one exceeds them
in size, and is, indeed, the most gigantic representative of the order known thus far. A man
could stand under the arch of the shield of the old Himalayan Turtle preserved in the British
Museum.

It would carry me too far, were I to attempt to give anything more than the most cursory sketch
of the animals of the Tertiary age; and, indeed, they are so well known, and have been so fully
represented in text-books, that I fear some of my readers may think even now that I have dwelt
too long upon them. Monkeys were unquestionably introduced upon earth before the close of the
Tertiaries; some bones have been found in Southern France, and also on Mount Pentelicus in
Greece, in the later Tertiary deposits; but these remains have not yet been collected in sufficient
number to establish much more than the fact of their presence in the animal creation at that
time. I do not offer any opinion respecting the fossil human bones so much discussed recently,
because the evidence is at present too scanty to admit of any decisive judgment concerning
them. It becomes, however, daily more probable that facts will force us sooner or later to
admit that the creation of man lies far beyond any period yet assigned to it, and that a succession
of human races, as of animals, have followed one another upon the earth. It may be the inestimable
privilege of our young naturalists to solve this great problem, but the older men of our generation
must be content to renounce this hope; we may have some prophetic vision of its fulfilment,
we may look from afar into the land of promise, but we shall not enter in and possess it.

The other great types of the Animal Kingdom are very fully represented in the Tertiaries, and
in their general appearance they approach much more closely those of the present creation than
of any previous epochs. Professor Heer has collected and described the Tertiary Insects in
great number and variety; and the Butterflies, Bugs, Flies, Grasshoppers, Dragon-Flies, Beetles,
etc., described in his volumes, would hardly be distinguished from our own, except by a practised
entomologist. Among Crustacea, the Shrimp-like forms of the earlier geological epochs have
become much less conspicuous, while Crabs and Lobsters are now the prominent representatives
of the class. Among Mollusks, the Chambered Shells, hitherto so numerous, have become, as they
now are, very few in comparison with the naked Cephalopods. The Nautili, however, resemble
those now living in the Pacific Ocean; and some fragments of the Paper-Nautilus have been found,
showing that this delicate shell was already in existence. There is one very peculiar type
of this class, belonging to the Tertiaries, which should not be passed by unnoticed. It partakes
of the character both of the Cretaceous Belemnites and of the living Cuttle-Fish, and is known
as the Spirulirostra. Another very characteristic group among the Tertiary Shells is that of
the Nummulites, formerly placed by naturalists in immediate proximity with the Ammonites, on
account of their internal partitions. This is now admitted to have been an error; their position
is not yet fully determined, but they certainly stand very low in the scale, and have no affinity
whatever with the Cephalopods. The subjoined wood-cut represents one of these Shells, so numerous
in the Tertiaries that large masses of rock consist of their remains. The Univalve Shells or
Gasteropods of the Tertiaries embraced all the families now living, including land and fresh-water
Shells as well as the marine representatives of the type. Some of the latter, as, for instance,
the Cerithium, are accumulated in vast numbers. The limestone quarries out of which Paris is
chiefly built consist wholly of these Shells. The fresh-water basins were filled with Helices,
one of which is represented in the following wood-cut, with Planorbis, Limnæus and other Shells
resembling those now so common in all our lakes and rivers, and differing from the living ones
only by slight specific characters. The Bivalves also have the same resemblance to the present
ones, including fresh-water Mussels as well as the marine Clams and Oysters. Among Radiates,
the higher Echini (Sea-Urchins) have become numerous, while the other Echinoderms of all families
abound. Corals include, for the first time, the more highly organized Madrepores.

In the Tertiaries we see the dawn of the present condition of things, not only in the character
of the animals and plants, but in the height of the mountains and in the distribution of land
and sea.

Let us give a glance at the continents whose growth we have been following, and see what these
more recent geological epochs have done for their completion. In Europe they have filled the
basin in Central France, and converted all that region into dry land: they have filled also
the channel between France and Spain; they have united Central Russia with the rest of Europe
by the completion of Poland, and have greatly enlarged Austria and Turkey; they have completed
the promontories of Italy and Greece, and have converted the inland sea at the foot of the
Jura into the plain of Switzerland. But this fruitful period in the progress of the world,
when the character of organic life was higher and the physical features of the earth more varied
than ever before, was not without its storms and convulsions. The Pyrenees, the Apennines,
the Alps, and with them the whole range of the Caucasus and Himalayas, were raised either immediately
after the Cretaceous epoch, or in the course of the Tertiaries. Indeed, with this most significant
passage in her history, Europe acquired all her essential characters. There remained, it is
true, much to be done in what is called by geologists "modern times." The work of the artist
is not yet finished when his statue is blocked out and the grand outline of his conception
stands complete; and there still remained, after the earth was rescued from the water, after
her framework of mountains was erected, after her soil was clothed with field and forest, processes
by which her valleys were to be made more fruitful, her gulfs to be filled with the rich detritus
poured into them by the rivers, her whole surface to be rendered more habitable for the higher
races who were to possess it.

We left America at the close of the Carboniferous epoch. A glance at the geological map will
show the reader that during the Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic epochs little was added to
the United States, though here and there deposits belonging to each of them crop out. In the
Cretaceous epoch, however, large tracts of land were accumulated, chiefly in the South and
West; and during the Tertiaries the continent was very nearly completed, leaving only a narrow
gulf running up to the neighborhood of St. Louis to be filled by modern detritus, and the peninsula
of Florida to be built by the industrious Coral-Workers of our own period. The age of the Alleghany
chain is not yet positively determined, but it was probably raised at the close of the Carboniferous
epoch. Up to that time, only the Laurentian Hills, the northern side of that mountainous triangle
which now makes the skeleton, as it were, of the United States, existed. The upheaval of the
Alleghanies added its eastern side, raising the central part of the continent so as to form
a long slope from the base of the Alleghanies to the Pacific Ocean; but it was not until the
Tertiary Age that the upheaval of the great chain at the West completed the triangle, and transformed
that wide westerly slope into the Mississippi Valley, bounded on one side by the Alleghanies,
and on the other by the Rocky Mountains.

It is my belief, founded upon the tropical character of the Fauna, that a much milder climate
then prevailed over the whole northern hemisphere than is now known to it. Some naturalists
have supposed that the presence of the tropical Mammalia in the Northern Temperate Zone might
be otherwise accounted for,--that they might have been endowed with warmer covering, with thicker
hair or fur. But I think the simpler and more natural reason for their existence throughout
the North is to be found in the difference of climate; and I am the more inclined to this opinion
because the Tertiary animals generally, the Fishes, Shells, etc., in the same regions, are
more closely allied in character to those now living in the Tropics than to those of the Temperate
Zones. The Tertiary age may be called the geological summer; we shall see, hereafter, how abruptly
it was brought to a close.

One word more as to the relation of the Tertiary Mammalia to the creation which preceded them.
I can only repeat here the argument used before: the huge quadrupeds characteristic of these
epochs make their appearance suddenly, and the deposits containing them follow as immediately
upon those of the Cretaceous epoch, in which no trace of them occurs, as do those of the Cretaceous
upon those of the Jurassic epoch. I would remind the reader that in the central basin of France,
in which Cuvier found his first Palæotherium, and which afterwards proved to have been thickly
settled by the early Mammalia, the deposits of the Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary epochs
follow each other in immediate, direct, uninterrupted succession; that the same is true of
other localities, in Germany, in Southern Europe, in England, where the most complete collections
have been made from all these deposits; and there has never been brought to light a single
fact leading us to suppose that any intermediate forms have ever existed through which more
recent types have been developed out of older ones. For thirty years Geology has been gradually
establishing, by evidence the fulness and accuracy of which are truly amazing, the regularity
in the sequence of the geological formations, and distinguishing, with ever-increasing precision,
the specific differences of the animals and plants contained in these accumulations of past
ages. These results bear living testimony to the wonderful progress of the kindred sciences
of Geology and Palæontology in the last half-century; and the development-theory has but an
insecure foundation so long as it attempts to strengthen itself by belittling the geological
record, the assumed imperfection of which, in default of positive facts, has now become the
favorite argument of its upholders.

THE NEW SANGREAL.

  "Show me the Sangreal, Lord! Show me Thy blood!
  Thy body and Thy blood! Give me the Quest!
  Lord, I am faint and tired; my soul is sick
  Of all the falseness, all the little aims,
  The weary vanities, the gasping joys,
  The slow procession of this satiate world!
  Dear Lord, I burn for Thee! Give me Thy Quest!
  Down through the old reverberating time,
  I see Thy knights in wonderful array
  Go out to victory, like the solemn stars
  Fighting in courses, with their conquering swords,
  Their sad, fixed lips of purity and strength,
  Their living glory, their majestic death.
  Give me Thy Quest! Show me the Sangreal, Lord!"

  He lay upon a mountain's rocky crest,
  So high, that all the glittering, misty world,
  All summer's splendid tempests, lay below,
  And sudden lightnings quivered at his feet;
  So still, not any sound of silentness
  Expressed the silence, nor the pallid sun
  Burned on his eyelids; all alone and still,
  Save for the prayer that struggled from his lips,
  Broken with eager stress. Then he arose.
  But always, down the hoary mountain-side,
  Through whispering forests, by soft-rippled streams,
  In clattering streets, or the great city's roar,
  Still from his never sated soul went up,
  "Give me Thy Quest! Show me the Sangreal, Lord!"

  Through all the land there poured a trumpet's clang,
  And when its silvery anger smote the air,
  Men sprang to arms from every true man's home,
  And followed to the field. He followed, too,--
  All the mad blood of manhood in his veins,
  All the fierce instincts of a warring race
  Kindled like flame in every tingling limb,
  And raging in his soul on fire with war.
  He heard a thousand voices call him on:
  Lips hot with anguish, shrieking their despair
  From swamps and forests and the still bayous
  That hide the wanderer, nor bewray his lair:
  From fields and marshes where the tropic sun
  Scorches a million laborers scourged to work;
  From homes that are not homes; from mother-hearts
  Torn from the infants lingering at their breasts;
  From parted lovers, and from shuddering wives;
  From men grown mad with whips and tyranny;
  From all a country groaning in its chains.
  Nor sleep, nor dream beguiled him any more;
  He leaped to manhood in one torrid hour,
  And armed, and sped to battle. Now no more
  He cried or prayed,--"Show me the Sangreal, Lord!"

  So in the front of deadly strife he stood;
  The glorious thunder of the roaring guns,
  The restless hurricane of screaming shells,
  The quick, sharp singing of the rifle-balls,
  The sudden clash of sabres, and the beat
  Of rapid horse-hoofs galloping at charge,
  Made a great chorus to his valorous soul,
  The dreadful music of a grappling world,
  That hurried him to fight. He turned the tide,
  But fell upon its turning. Over him
  Fluttered the starry flag, and fluttered on,
  While he lay helpless on the trampled sward,
  His hot life running scarlet from its source,
  And all his soul in sudden quiet spent,
  As still as on the silent mountain-top;
  So still that from his quick-remembering heart
  Burst that old cry,--"Show me the Sangreal, Lord!"

  Then a bright mist descended over him,
  And in its central glory stood a shape,
  Wounded, yet smiling. With His bleeding hands
  Stretched toward that bleeding side, His eyes divine
  Like a new dawn, thus softly spake the Lord:--
  "The blood poured out for brothers is my blood;
  The flesh for brothers broken is my flesh;
  No more in golden chalices I dwell,
  No longer in a vision, angel-borne:
  Here is the Sangreal, here the Holy Quest.
  Thy prayer is heard, thy soul is satisfied:
  Come, my belovèd! I am come for thee.
  As first I broke the bread and poured the wine,
  So have I broken thee and poured thy life,
  So do I bless thee and give thanks for thee,
  So do I bear thee in my wounded hands."
  Smiling, He stooped, and kissed the tortured brow,
  And over all its anguish stole a smile;
  The blood-sealed lips unclosed; the dying breath
  Sighed, like the rain-sound in a summer wind,
  Sobbing, but sweet,--"I see the Sangreal, Lord!"

THOMAS DE QUINCEY.

In the notice of so memorable a man, even the briefest prelusive flourish seems uncalled for;
and so indeed it would be, if by such means it were meant simply to justify the undertaking.
In regard to any of the great powers in literature there exists already a prevailing interest,
which cannot be presumed to slumber for one moment in any thinking mind.[A] By way of notification,
there is no need of prelude. Yet there are occasions, as, for example, the entrances of kings,
which absolutely demand the inaugural flourish of arms,--which, like the rosy flood of dawn,
require to be ushered in by a train of twilight glories. And there are lives which proceed
as by the movements of music,--which, must therefore be heralded by overtures: majestic steppings,
heard in the background, compel us, through mere sympathy with their pomp of procession, to
sound the note of preparation.

[Footnote A: "In any thinking mind." Yet it must be confessed that there does exist a woful
ignorance or negligence concerning De Quincey in quarters from which better things might be
expected. Misappreciation it cannot be called, where no trouble has been taken to estimate
claims that needed only to be weighed to be truly valued. Up to this time, there has never
been published in England a single essay on the life or the genius of De Quincey that indicated
even a good acquaintance, on the part of the writer, with that author's works; and in such
a case, of course, not much could be looked for in the way of just interpretation. Gilfillan
did him gross injustice: indeed, from what he condescended to say of the man, it would be difficult
to conjecture that a greater than Gilfillan was there. And, will the reader believe it? in
Professor Craik's "English Literature"--a work of great excellence--the name of De Quincey
is not mentioned! "Sam Johnson," says Craik, "was the last king that sat upon the throne of
English prose literature." Let it be that Sam was a proper king; yet it is just as true that
De Quincey was legitimately his successor. First, in the matter of time: Sam died in 1784,
and De Quincey was born in 1785, just in time to continue the regal line. What was it, again,
that entitled Johnson to kingly honors? Was it learning? De Quincey was as erudite. Was it
his style? There is no writer in the language who in that matter may look down on De Quincey.

If there ever was a writer "damned with faint praise," it was De Quincey. Some stupid writer
for the London "Athenæum," for instance, dared to compliment the poor "opium-chewer" after
the following style:--"He possessed taste, but he lacked creative energy; and his subtle and
highly refined intellect was ingenious and acute rather than powerful." This reminds me of
a criticism once passed upon Shakspeare by a mere pedagogue, to the effect that the great poet
had considerable genius, but very little taste!]

Else I should plunge in medias res upon a sketch of De Quincey's life; were it not a rudeness
amounting to downright profanity to omit the important ceremony of prelibation, and that at
a banquet to which, implicitly, gods are invited. The reader will assuredly unite with me in
all such courtesies,--

  "Neu desint epulis rosæ";

particularly as the shade we deal with can be evoked only by peculiar incantations,--only the
heralding of certain precise claims will this monarch listen to as the just inferiæ, the fitting
sacrifice or hecatomb of our homage.

The key-note of preparation, the claim which preëminently should be set forth in advance, is
this: that De Quincey was the prince of hierophants, or of pontifical hierarchs, as regards
all those profound mysteries which from the beginning have swayed the human heart, sometimes
through the light of angelic smiles lifting it upwards to an altitude just beneath the heavens,
and sometimes shattering it, with the shock of quaking anguish, down to earth. As it was the
function of the hierophant, in the Grecian mysteries, to show the sacred symbols as concrete
incarnations of faith, so was it De Quincey's to reveal in open light the everlasting symbols,
universally intelligible when once disclosed, which are folded in the involutions of dreams
and of those meditations which most resemble dreams; and as to the manner of these revelations,
no Roman pontifex maximus, were it even Cæsar himself, could have rivalled their magisterial pomp.

The peculiarities of his life all point in the direction here indicated. It was his remarkable
experience which furnished him the key to certain secret recesses of human nature hitherto
sealed up in darkness. Along that border-line by which the glimmerings of consciousness are,
as by the thinnest, yet the most impervious veil, separated from the regions of the unexplored
and the undefinable, De Quincey walked familiarly and with privileged eye and ear. Many a nebulous
mass of hieroglyphically inscribed meanings did he--this Champollion, defying all human enigmas,
this Herschel, or Lord Rosse, forever peering into the obscure chasms and yawning abysses of
human astronomy--resolve into orderly constellations, that, once and for all, through his telescopic
interpretation and enlargement, were rendered distinct and commensurable amongst men. The conditions
of his power in this respect are psychologically inseparable from the remarkable conditions
of his life, two of which are especially to be noticed. First, a ruling disposition towards
meditation, constituting him, in the highest sense of the word, a poet. Secondly, the peculiar
qualities which this singular mental constitution derived from his use of opium,--qualities
which, although they did not increase, or even give direction to his meditative power, at least
magnified it, both optically, as to its visual capacity, and creatively, as to its constructive
faculty. These two conditions, each concurrent with the other in its ruling influence, impart
to his life a degree of psychological interest which belongs to no other on record. Nor is
this all. The reader knows how often a secondary interest will attach to the mightiest of conquerors
or to the wisest of sovereigns, who is not merely in himself, and through his own deeds, magnificent,
but whose glory is many times repeated and piled up by numerous reverberations of itself from
a contemporary race of Titans. Thus, doubtless, Charles V., although himself King of Spain,
Germany, the Netherlands, and a portion of Italy, gloried in the sublime empery of the Turkish
Solyman, as by some subtile connection of fate sympathetic with his own. A secondary interest
of this nature belongs to the life of De Quincey,--a life which inclosed, as an island, a whole
period of English literature, one, too, which in activity and originality is unsurpassed by
any other, including the names of Scott and Dickens, of Wordsworth, Coleridge, Lamb, and Southey,
of Moore, Byron, Shelley, and Keats. His connection with very many of these was not simply
that of coëxistence, but also of familiar intercourse.

Between De Quincey's life and his writings it is impossible that there should be any distraction
of interest, so intimately are the two interwoven: in this case more so than in that of any
known author. Particularly is this true of his more impassioned writings, which are a faithful
rescript of his all-impassioned life. Hierophant we have called him,--the prince of hierophants,--having
reference to the matter of his revelations; but in his manner, in his style of composition,
he is something more than this: here he stands the monarch amongst rhapsodists. In these writings
are displayed the main peculiarities of his life and genius.

But, besides these, there is a large section of his works, the aim of which is purely intellectual,
where feeling is not at all involved; and surely there is not, in either ancient or modern
literature, a section which, in the same amount of space, exhibits the same degree of intense
activity on the part of the analytic understanding, applied to the illustration of truth or
to the solution of vexed problems. This latter class is the more remarkable from its polar
antithesis to the former; just as, in his life, it is a most remarkable characteristic of the
man, that, rising above all other men through the rhapsodies of dreams, he should yet be able
truly to say of himself that he had devoted a greater number of hours to intellectual pursuits
than any other man whom he had seen, heard of, or read of. A wider range is thus exhibited,
not of thought merely, but also of the possible modes of expressing thought, than is elsewhere
to be found, even in writers the most skilled in rhetorical subtilty. The distance between
these two opposites De Quincey does not traverse by violent leaps; he does not by some feat
of legerdemain evanish from the fields of impassioned eloquence, where he is an unrivalled
master, to appear forthwith in those of intellectual gymnastics, where, at least, he is not
surpassed. He is familiar with every one of the intervening stages between the rhapsody and
the demonstration,--between the loftiest reach of aspirant passion, from which, with reptile
instinct, the understanding slinks downwards to the earth, and that fierce antagonism of naked
thoughts, where the crested serpent "mounts and burns." His alchemy is infinite, combining
light with warmth in all degrees,--in pathos, in humor,[A] in genial illumination. Let the
reader, if he can, imagine Rousseau to have written "Dinner, Real and Reputed," or the paper
on "The Essenes," in both of which great erudition is necessary, but in which erudition is
as nothing when compared to the faculty of recombining into novel forms what previously had
been so grouped as to be misunderstood, or had lacked just the one element necessary for introducing
order. To have written these would have entitled Rousseau to a separate sceptre. Or, moving
into a realm of art totally distinct from this, suppose him to have been the author of "Murder
considered as one of the Fine Arts": that would mount a new plume in Rousseau's hat. But I
happen just now to be reminded of another little paper, numbering about six pages, entitled,
"On the Knocking at the Gate, in Macbeth": give him that, too. Why, the little French king
is beginning to assume an imperial consequence! We beg the reader's pardon for indulging in
comparisons of this nature, which are always disagreeable; but we have this excuse, that the
two writers are often mentioned as on the same level, and with no appreciation of that unlimited
range of power which belongs to De Quincey, but not at all to Rousseau. All but one of the
trophies which we have hypothetically transferred to the Frenchman adorn a single volume out
of twenty-two, in the Boston edition. Nor is this one imperial column adorned by these alone:
there are, besides,--alas for Rousseau!--two other spolia opima by which the French master
is, in his own field, proved not the first, nor even the second,--proximus, sed non secundus,--so
wide is the distance between De Quincey and any other antagonist. These two are the essays
respectively entitled, "Joan of Arc," and "The English Mail-Coach."

[Footnote A: Of De Quincey's humor, a friend once remarked to me, that it always reminded him
of an elephant attempting to dance. Now, without any doubt, an elephant could dance after an
elephantine fashion; but surely you would never catch him going through the movements of a
jig or a Virginia "breakdown." He never lets you forget that he is an elephant. So with De
Quincey. Levity is an element farthest removed from his humor; in fact, whenever he allows
himself to indulge in humor at all, you may be sure that murder is going on somewhere in the
vicinity, a tragedy of pretty frequent occurrence in De Quincey's works.

There was sufficient humor in De Quincey to have endowed a dozen Aristophaneses. There was
something, too, in its order, by which it resembled the gigantesque features of the old Greek
master. I will illustrate my meaning by a single instance from each. In Aristophanes's "Clouds,"
Strepsiades is being initiated into the Socratic Phrontisterium, and in the course of the ceremony
Socrates directs his pupil's attention to the moon for certain mysterious purposes. But the
moon only reminds Strepsy of numerous imperturbable duns that storm about his ears with lunar
exactness, (literally so, since the Greeks paid, or refused to pay, regularly on the last day
of the month,)--and here it is that the opportunity is offered for a monstrous stroke of humor;
for, at this crisis, Strepsy is made to exclaim, "Some magic is it, O Socrates, about the moon?
Well! since you are up to that sort of thing, what do you say, now, to a spell by which I could
snap the old monster out of her course for a generation or so?" Now for the parallel case from
De Quincey. It is from his paper on "California," a politico-economical treatise. The author's
object is to illustrate the fact that scarcity of gold is not due to its non-existence, but
to the difficulty of obtaining it. "Emeralds and sapphires," says he, "are lying at this moment
in a place which I could indicate, and no policeman is on duty in the whole neighborhood to
hinder me or the reader from pocketing as many as we please. We are also at perfect liberty
to pocket the anchors of Her Majesty's ship the Victoria, (one hundred and twenty guns,) and
to sell them for old iron. Pocket them by all means, and I engage that the magistrate sitting
at the Thames police-office will have too much respect for your powers to think of detaining
you. If he does, your course is to pocket the police-office, and all which it inherits. The
man that pockets an anchor may be a dangerous customer, but not a customer to be sneezed at."
This strikes us as very similar to Strepsiades's bagging the moon.]

It is impossible to be exhaustive upon such a subject as that which I have undertaken. I shall
select, therefore, two prominent centres, about which the thoughts which I wish to present
naturally revolve: De Quincey's childhood, and his opium-experiences.

Thomas de Quincey--hierophant, rhapsodist, philosopher--was born at Greenhay, then a suburb
of Manchester, in Lancashire County, England, on the 15th of August, 1785. According to his
own account, the family of the De Quinceys was of Norwegian origin; and after its transfer
to France, in connection with William the Norman, it received its territorial appellation from
the village of Quincy, in Normandy. Thence, at the time of the Norman Invasion, it was transplanted
to England, where, as afterwards in Scotland, it rose to the highest position, not merely in
connection with a lordly title and princely estates, but chiefly on account of valuable services
rendered to the State, and conferring preeminence in baronial privilege and consideration.

So sensitive was De Quincey, even at the early age of fifteen, on the point of his descent,
lest from his name he might be supposed of French extraction, that, even into the ears of George
III. (that king having, in an accidental interview with him at Frogmore, suggested the possibility
of his family having come to England at the time of the Huguenot exodus from France) he ventured
to breathe the most earnest protest against any supposition of that nature, and boldly insisted
upon his purely Norman blood,--blood that in the baronial wars had helped to establish the
earliest basis of English constitutional liberty, and that had flowed from knightly veins in
the wars of the Crusades. Robert De Quincey came into England with William the Conqueror, uniting
with whose fortunes, he fared after the Conquest as a feudal baron, founding the line of Winchester;
and that he was a baron of the first water is evident from the statement of Gerard Leigh,--that
his armorial device was inscribed (and how inscribed, if not memorially and as a mark of eminent
distinction?) on the stained glass in the old church of St. Paul's.

And here it is proper that the reader's attention should be momentarily diverted to the American
branch of this family, at the head of which stands the Hon. Josiah Quincy, (the aristocratic
De being omitted,)--a branch which fled from England in the early part of the seventeenth century,
to avoid a strife which had then become too intense and fiery to admit of reconciliation, and
which, indeed, a few years after their withdrawal, culminated in civil war. As illustrating
the inevitableness of any great moral issue, no matter how vast the distance which at a critical
moment we may put between it and ourselves,--as indicating how surely the Nemesis, seemingly
avoided, but really only postponed, will continue to track our flying footsteps, even across
the barren wastes of ocean, that ought, if anything could, to interpose an effectual barrier
between us and all pursuers, and, having caught up with us in our fancied retreat, will precipitate
upon our devoted heads its accumulated violence,--as demonstrating thus the melancholy persistence
with which that ugly Sphinx who impersonates Justice in our human affairs doggedly insists
on having her questions answered, and, coming by a circuitous route upon those who by good
luck have escaped her direct path, through an incarnation of unusual terror compels her dread
alternative,--it is interesting to note how this same family, separated by over seven generations
from one political revolution, the momentous crisis of which was by them successfully evaded,
are now, after an interval of unsound and hollow peace, compelled to witness the precise reiteration
of that storm, in the very land to which they fled for refuge,--a reiteration that repeats,
only on a different stage, and under an aggravation of horror as to minute details, not merely
two antagonistic races corresponding on either side to those which met in battle on Marston
Moor, but also interests far outweighing any that could possibly attach to a conflict between
royalty and democracy.

But the Earls of Winchester, in England, whatever may have been their prosperity during the
nine or ten generations after the Conquest, came suddenly to an abrupt termination, abutting
at length on some guilty traitor in the line, who, like a special Adam for the family, involved
in his own ruin that prosperity which would else have continued to his successors. The dissevered
fragments of the old feudal estate, however, remained in possession of separate members of
the family, as De Quincey tells us, until the generation next preceding his own, when the last
vestige slipped out of the hands of the one sole squire who, together with the name, held also
some relic of its ancient belongings. But above the diluvial wreck of the Winchester estates
there has arisen an estate far more royal and magnificent, and beneath a far-reaching bow of
promise, sealed in magical security against a similar disaster. For just here, where every
hold is lost upon the original heritage, is the family freshly grounded upon a second heritage,--one
sublime in its order above that of all earthly possessions, one that is forever imperishable,--namely,
the large domain which the gigantic intellect of Thomas De Quincey has absolved from aboriginal
darkness and brought under distinct illumination for all time to come. These are the vast acres
over which human pride must henceforth soar,--acres that have been, through the mighty realizations
of human genius, built out into the mysterious ocean-depths of chaotic Nature, and that have
in some measure bridged over infinite chasms in thought, and by just so far have extended the
fluctuating boundaries of human empire. And for De Quincey himself, in view of that monumental
structure which rises above the shattered wrecks of his poor, frail body, as above the mummied
dust of Egyptian kings remain eternally the pyramids which they wrought in their lifetime,
we find it impossible to cherish a single regret, that, possibly, by the treasonable slip of
a predecessor, he may have been robbed of an earldom,--or even that, during a life which by
some years overlapped the average allotment to humanity, and through which were daily accumulating
the most splendid results in the very highest departments of philosophy and art, these accumulations
nevertheless went on without any notable recognition from a court the most liberal in all Europe;
no badge of outward knighthood coming to him through all these years, as formerly to Sir Thomas
Browne for his subtile meditations, and to Sir William Hamilton for his philosophic speculations.
The absence of such merely nominal titles excites in us no deep regret; there is in them little
that is monumental, and the pretty tinsel, with which they gild monuments already based on
substantial worth, is easily, and without a sigh, exchanged for that everlasting sunshine reflected
from the loving remembrances of human hearts.

But at the same time that we so willingly dispense with these nominal conditions in the case
of De Quincey,--though, assuredly, there was never a man upon earth whom these conditions,
considered as aërial hieroglyphs of the most regal pomp and magnificence, would more consistently
fit,--we cannot thus easily set aside those other outward conditions of affluence and respectability,
which, by their presence or absence, so materially shape and mould the life, and particularly
in its earliest tendencies and impulses,--in that season of immature preparation when the channels
of habit are in the process of formation, and while yet a marvellous uncertainty hangs and
broods over the beginnings of life, as over the infant rivulet yet dandled and tended by its
mountain-nurses. For, although there are certain elements which rigidly and by a foreseen certainty
determine its course, as, for instance, an extraordinary vantage-height of source, securing
for it the force and swiftness of a torrent,--yet how shifting are the mountain-winds, chilling
into frosty silence or quickening with Favonian warmth, and how shifting the flying clouds,
which, whether marshalled in mimic tournament above it, or in the shock of a real conflict,
forever sway its tender fountains! Thus, even in inexperienced childhood, do the scales of
the individual destiny begin, favorably or unfavorably, to determine their future preponderations,
by reason of influences merely material, and before, indeed, any sovereignty save a corporeal
one (in conjunction with heavenly powers) is at all recognized in life. For, in this period,
with which above all others we associate influences the most divine, "with trailing clouds
of glory," those influences which are purely material are the most efficiently operative. Against
the former, adult man, in whom reason is developed, may battle, though ignobly, and, for himself,
ruinously; and against the latter oftentimes he must struggle, to escape ignominious shipwreck.
But the child, helpless alike for both these conflicts, is, through the very ignorance which
shields him from all conscious guilt, bound over in the most impotent (though, because impotent
and unconscious, the least humiliating) slavery to material circumstance,--a slavery which
he cannot escape, and which, during the period of its absolutism, absorbs his very blood, bone,
and nerve. To poverty, which the strong man resists, the child succumbs; on the other hand,
that affluence of comfort, from which philosophy often weans the adult, wraps childhood about
with a sheltering care; and fortunate indeed it is, if the mastery of Nature over us during
our first years is thus a gentle dealing with us, fertilizing our powers with the rich juices
of an earthly prosperity. And in this respect De Quincey was eminently fortunate. The powers
of heaven and of earth and--if we side with Milton and other pagan mythologists in attributing
the gift of wealth to some Plutonian dynasty--the dark powers under the earth seem to have
conjointly arrayed themselves in his behalf. Whatever storms were in the book of Fate written
against his name they postponed till a far-off future, in the mean time granting him the happiest
of all childhoods. Really of gentle blood, and thus gaining whatever substantial benefits in
constitutional temperament and susceptibilities could be thence derived, although lacking,
as Pope also had lacked, the factitious circumstance and airy heralding of this distinction,
he was, in addition to this, surrounded by elements of aristocratic refinement and luxury,
and thus hedged in not merely against the assault, in any form, of pinching poverty, (as would
be any one in tolerably comfortable circumstances,) but even against the most trivial hint
of possible want,--against all necessity of limitation or retrenchment in any normal line of
expenditure.

He was the son of a merchant, who, at the early age of thirty-nine, died, leaving to his family--a
wife and six children--an estate yielding annually an income of sixteen hundred pounds. And
as at his father's death De Quincey was seven years old, we may reasonably infer, that, during
this previous period, while his father was still living, and adding to this fixed a fluctuating
income from his yearly gains, (which to a wholesale merchant of his standing were considerable,)
the family-fortunes were even more auspicious, amounting to the yearly realization of between
two and three thousand pounds, and that at a time when Napoleon had not as yet meddled with
the financial affairs of Europe, nor by his intimidations caused even pounds and shillings
to shrink into less worth and significance than they formerly had,--in view of which fact,
if we are to charge Alexander the Great (as in a famous anecdote he was charged) with the crime
of highway-robbery, as the "snapper-up of unconsidered trifles" in the way of crowns and a
few dozen sceptres, what a heinous charge must be brought against this Corsican as universal
pickpocket! This pecuniary depreciation De Quincey himself realized some years later, when,
determining to quit school, he thought himself compelled[A] to cut off all communication with
his guardians, and gave himself up to a Bohemian life among the Welsh mountains, wandering
from one rustic valley to another with the most scanty means of support,--for just then the
Allies were in full rig against France, and the shrinkage of guineas in our young wanderer's
pocket became palpably evident in view of the increased price of his dinner.

[Footnote A: But afterwards he discovered his mistake, and that it was only by the lack on
his part of that frankness which the kindness of his guardians deserved that he had brought
so much misery upon himself in after-life. His younger brother, Richard,--the Pink of the "Autobiographic
Sketches,"--made the same mistake, a mistake which in his case was never rectified, but led
to a life of perilous wanderings and adventures.]

The time did come at length when the full epos of a remarkable prosperity was closed up and
sealed for De Quincey. But that was in the unseen future. To the child it was not permitted
to look beyond the hazy lines that bounded his oasis of flowers into the fruitless waste abroad.
Poverty, want, at least so great as to compel the daily exercise of his mind for mercenary
ends, was stealthily advancing from the rear; but the sound of its stern steppings was wholly
muffled by intervening years of luxurious opulence and ease.

I dwell thus at length upon the aristocratic elegance of De Quincey's earliest surroundings,
(which, coming at a later period, I should notice merely as an accident,) because, although
not a potential element, capable of producing or of adding one single iota to the essential
character of genius, it is yet a negative condition--a sine qua non--to the displays of genius
in certain directions and under certain aspects. By misfortune it is true that power may be
intensified. So may it by the baptism of malice. But, given a certain degree of power, there
still remains a question as to its kind. So deep is the sky: but of what hue, of what aspect?
Wine is strong, and so is the crude alcohol but what the mellowness? And the blood in our veins,
it is an infinite force: but of what temper? Is it warm, or is it cold? Does it minister to
Moloch, or to Apollo? Will it shape the Madonna face, or the Medusa? Why, the simple fact that
the rich blue sky over-arches this earth of ours, or that it is warm blood which flows in our
veins, is sufficient to prove that no malignant Ahriman made the world. Just here the question
is not, what increment or what momentum genius may receive from outward circumstances, but
what coloring, what mood. Here it is that a Mozart differs from a Mendelssohn. The important
difference which obtains, in this respect, between great powers in literature, otherwise coördinate,
will receive illustration from a comparison between De Quincey and Byron. For both these writers
were capable, in a degree rarely equalled in any literature, of reproducing, or rather, we
should say, of reconstructing, the pomp of Nature and of human life. In this general office
they stand together: both wear, in our eyes, the regal purple; both have caused to rise between
earth and heaven miracles of grandeur, such as never Cheops wrought through his myriad slaves,
or Solomon with his fabled ring. But in the final result, as in the whole modus operandi, of
their architecture, they stand apart toto coelo. Byron builds a structure that repeats certain
elements in Nature or humanity; but they are those elements only which are allied to gloom,
for he builds in suspicion and distrust, and upon the basis of a cynicism that has been nurtured
in his very flesh and blood from birth; he erects a Pisa-like tower which overhangs and threatens
all human hopes and all that is beautiful in human love. Who else, save this archangelic intellect,
shut out by a mighty shadow of eclipse from the bright hopes and warm affections of all sunny
hearts, could have originated such a Pandemonian monster as the poem on "Darkness"? The most
striking specimen of Byron's imaginative power, and nearly the most striking that has ever
been produced, is the apostrophe to the sea, in "Childe Harold." But what is it in the sea
which affects Lord Byron's susceptibilities to grandeur? Its destructiveness alone. And how?
Is it through any high moral purpose or meaning that seems to sway the movements of destruction?
No; it is only through the gloomy mystery of the ruin itself,--ruin revealed upon a scale so
vast and under conditions of terror the most appalling,--ruin wrought under the semblance of
an almighty passion for revenge directed against the human race.

This, then, is the nearest approach to human love,--the removal of all antipathies!

De Quincey, on the other hand, in whose heart there was laid no such hollow basis for infidelity
toward the master-passions of humanity, repeated the pomps of joy or of sorrow, as evolved
out of universal human nature, and as, through sunshine and tempest, typified in the outside
world,--but never for one instant did he seek alliance, on the one side, with the shallow enthusiasm
of the raving Bacchante, or, on the other, with the overshadowing despotism of gloom; nor can
there be found on a single page of all his writings the slightest hint indicating even a latent
sympathy with the power which builds only to crush, or with the intellect that denies, and
that against the dearest objects of human faith fulminates its denials and shocking recantations
solely for the purposes of scorn.

Whence this marked difference? To account for it, we must needs trace back to the first haunts
of childhood the steps of these two fugitives, each of whom has passed thence, the one into
a desert mirage, teeming with processions of the gloomiest falsities in life, and the other--also
into the desert, but where he is yet refreshed and solaced by an unshaken faith in the genial
verities of life, though separated from them by irrecoverable miles of trackless wastes, and
where, however apparently abandoned and desolate, he is yet ministered unto by angels, and
no mimic fantasies are suffered to exercise upon his heart their overmastering seductions to

  "Allure, or terrify, or undermine."

Whether the days of childhood be our happiest days, is a question all by itself. But there
can be no question as to the inevitable certainty with which the conditions of childhood, fortunate
or unfortunate, determine the main temper and disposition of our lives. For it is underneath
the multitude of fleeting proposals and conscious efforts, born of reason, and which, to one
looking upon life from any superficial stand-point, seem to have all to do with its conduct,
that there runs the undercurrent of disposition, which is born of Nature, which is cradled
and nurtured with us in our infancy, which is itself a general choice, branching out into our
specific choices of certain directions and aims among all opposite directions and aims, and
which, although we rarely recognize its important functions, is in all cases the arbiter of
our destiny. And in the very word disposition is indicated the finality of its arbitraments
as contrasted with all proposition.

Now, with respect to this disposition: Nature furnishes its basis; but it is the external structure
of circumstance, built up or building about childhood,--to shelter or imprison,--which, more
than all else, gives it its determinate character; and though this outward structure may in
after-life be thoroughly obliterated, or replaced by its opposite,--porcelain by clay, or clay
by porcelain,--yet will the tendencies originally developed remain and hold a sway almost uninterrupted
over life. And, generally, the happy influences that preside over the child may be reduced
under three heads: first, a genial temperament,--one that naturally, and of its own motion,
inclines toward a centre of peace and rest rather than toward the opposite centre of strife;
secondly, profound domestic affections; and, thirdly, affluence, which, although of all three
it is the most negative, the most material condition, is yet practically the most important,
because of the degree in which it is necessary to the full and unlimited prosperity of the
other two. For how frequent are the cases in which the happiest of temperaments are perverted
by the necessities of toil, so burdensome to tender years, or in which corroding anxieties,
weighing upon parents' hearts, check the free play of domestic love!--and in all cases where
such limitations are present, even in the gentlest form, there must be a cramping up of the
human organization and individuality somewhere; and everywhere, and under all circumstances,
there must be sensibly felt the absence of that leisure which crowns and glorifies the affections
of home, making them seem the most like summer sunshine, or rather like a sunshine which knows
no season, which is an eternal presence in the soul.

As regards all these three elements, De Quincey's childhood was prosperous; afterwards, vicissitudes
came,--mighty changes capable of affecting all other transmutations, but thoroughly impotent
to annul the inwrought grace of a pre-established beauty. On the other hand, Byron's childhood
was, in all these elements, unfortunate.

And this allusion to Vulcan reminds us that Byron, in addition to all his other early mishaps,
had also the identical clubfoot of the Lemnian god. Among the guardians over Byron's childhood
was a demon, that, receiving an ample place in his victim's heart, stood demoniacally his ground
through life, transmuting love to hate, and what might have been benefits to fatal snares.
Over De Quincey's childhood, on the contrary, a strong angel guarded to withstand and thwart
all threatened ruin, teaching him the gentle whisperings of faith and love in the darkest hours
of life: an angel that built happy palaces, the beautiful images of which, and their echoed
festivals, far outlasted the splendor of their material substance.

Let the reader suppose a different case from that here presented. Let him suppose, for instance,
that De Quincey, now arrived at the age of seven, and having now at least one "pugilistic brother"
to torment his peace, could annul his own infancy, and in its place substitute that of one
of the factory-boys of Manchester, of the same age, (and many such could be found,) among those
with whom daily the military predispositions of this brother brought him into a disagreeable
conflict. Instead of the pure air of outside Lancashire, let there be substituted the cotton-dust
of the Lancashire mills. The contrast, even in thought, is painful. It is true that thus the
irrepressible fires of human genius could not be quenched. Nay, through just these instrumentalities,
oftentimes, is genius fostered. We need not the instance of Romulus and Remus, or of the Persian
Cyrus, to prove that men have sometimes been nourished by bears or by she-wolves. Nevertheless,
this is essentially a Roman nurture. The Greeks, on the contrary, laid their infant heroes
on beds of violets,--if we may believe the Pindaric odes,--set over them a divine watch, and
fed them with angels' food. And this Grecian nurture De Quincey had.

And not the least important element of this nurture is that of perfect leisure. Through this
it is that we pass from the outward to the subjective relations of De Quincey's childhood;
for only in connection with these has the element just introduced any value, since leisure,
which is the atmosphere, the breathing-place of genius, is also cap and bells for the fool.
In relation to power, it is, like solitude, the open heaven through which the grandeurs of
eternity flow into the penetralian recesses of the human heart, after that once the faculties
of thought, or the sensibilities, have been powerfully awakened. Sensibility had been thus
awakened in De Quincey, through grief occasioned by the loss of a sister, his favorite and
familiar playmate,--a grief so profound, that he, somewhere, in speaking of it, anticipates
the certainty of its presence in the hour of death; and thought, also, had been prematurely
awakened, both under the influence of this overmastering pathos of sorrow, and because of his
strong predisposition to meditation. Both the pathos and the meditative tendencies were increased
by the halcyon peace of his childhood. His, at least, was the felicity of this echoless peace.

In no memorial is it so absolutely requisite that a marked prominence should be given to its
first section as in De Quincey's. This is a striking peculiarity in his life. If it were not
so, I should have seriously transgressed in keeping the reader's attention so long upon a point
which, aside from such peculiarity, would yield no sufficient, at least no proportionate value.
But, in the treatment of any life, that cannot seem disproportionate which enters into it as
an element only and just in that ratio of prominence with which it enters into the life itself,
No stream can rise above the level of its source. No life, which lacks a prominent interest
as to its beginnings, can ever, in its entire course, develop any distinguishing features of
interest. This is true of any life; but it is true of De Quincey's above all others on record,
that, through all its successive arches, ascending and descending, it repeats the original
arch of childhood. Repeats,--but with what marvellous transformations! For hardly is its earliest
section passed, when, for all its future course, it is masked by a mighty trouble. No longer
does it flow along its natural path, and beneath the open sky, but, like the sacred Alpheus, runs

  "Through caverns measureless to man,
  Down to the sunless sea."

Yet, amid the "briny tides" of that sea, amid turmoil and perplexity and the saddest of mysteries,
it preserves its earliest gentleness, and its inward, noiseless peace, till once more it gushes
up toward the sweet heaven through the Arethusan font of death. Easily, then, is it to be seen
why De Quincey himself continually reverted, both in his conscious reminiscences and through
the subconscious relapses of dreams, from a life clouded and disguised in its maturer years,
to the unmasked purity of its earliest heaven. And what from the vast desert, what from the
fatal wreck of life, was he to look back upon, for even an imaginary solace, if not upon the
rich argosies that spread their happier sails above a calmer sea?

[Footnote A: Paradise Regained, Book II.]

If the splendors of divinity could be so disguised by the severe necessities of the wilderness
and of brutal hunger as to be thus solicited and baffled even in dreams,--if, by the lowest
of mortal appetites, they could be so humiliated and eclipsed as to revel in the shadowy visions
of merely human plenty,--then by how much more must the human heart, eclipsed at noon, revert,
under the mask of sorrow and of dreams, to the virgin beauties of the dawn! with how much more
violent revulsion must the weary, foot-sore traveller, lost in a waste of sands, be carried
back through the gate of ivory or of horn to the dewy, flower-strewn fields of some far happier
place and time!

The transition from De Quincey's childhood to his opium-experiences is as natural, therefore,
as from strophe to antistrophe in choral antiphonies. Henceforth, as the reader already understands,
we are not permitted to look upon a simple, undisguised life, unless we draw aside a veil as
impenetrable as that which covers the face of Isis or the poppy-sceptred Demeter. Under this
papaverian mask it is likely to be best known to the reader; for it is under the title of "Opium-Eater"
that he is most generally recognized. It was through his Opium-Confessions, popular both as
to matter and style, that he first conciliated and charmed the reading public,--and to such
a degree that great expectations were awakened as to anything which afterwards he might write.
This expectation heightens appreciation; and in this case it helped many a metaphysical dose
down the voracious throat of the public, without its being aware of the nauseating potion,
or experiencing any uncomfortable consequences. The flood of popularity produced by the Opium-Confessions
among that large intellectual class of readers who, notwithstanding their mental capacity,
yet insist upon the graces of composition and upon a subject of immediate and moving interest,
was sufficient to float into a popular haven many a ship of heavier freightage, which might
else have fallen short of port.

The general interest which is manifested in De Quincey personally is also very much due to
the fact that he was an opium-eater, and an opium-eater willing to breathe into the public
ear the peculiarities of his situation and its hidden mysteries, or "suspiria de profundis."
This interest is partly of that vulgar sort which connects itself with all mysterious or abnormal
phenomena in Nature or in the human mind, with a "What is it?" or a spiritual medium, and which
is satisfied with a palpable exhibition of the novelty; and partly it is of a philosophical
order, inquiring into the causes and modes of the abnormal development. It is rarely the case
that human vision is especially or deliberately directed to the sun or the moon, except at
the marvellous season of eclipse, when interest is awakened by the novelty of the appearance
among the vulgar, and among philosophers by the unusual nature of the phenomenon, demanding
explanation. Then it is that the people inhabiting this globe are excited by something which
calls off their attention from terrestrial trifles to that which connects them with unknown
worlds. If we had been born Hindoos, we should, at such times, exhibit our skittish tendencies,
"shying" at the sun-eating monster with nervous apprehension, and should doubtless do our best,
through horrid yells and tintinnabulations, towards getting up a tremendous counter-irritation
upon the earth that should tell mightily on the nerves of this umbratilous tiger in the heavens.
But since we are neither Hindoos nor Egyptians, nor skittish heathen of any sort, we take defiant
attitudes and look through smoked glasses. At any rate, it is only at such times that we pay
particular attentions, by way of courtesy, to foreign worlds. And of all the creatures of God
which come within the circle of human knowledge or notice, which is it that may be said to
enjoy the most continuous round of attentions, and to live in excitement the most nearly approaching
to perpetual? It is the comet, which no sooner gets out of reach of our flying compliments
than she becomes the pet of Jupiter's magnificent citizens, or calls forth deprecating murmurs
from our shy sister Venus, and Mercury, our milder brother, who, from all such mischiefs, creeps
as nearly as possible under the paternal wings of the Sun. No one of these erratic visitors
can remember the time when she was not making a stir somewhere in the universe, or when a cloudy
night, intercepting her from vision, would not have been as surely execrated as are the colds
which afflict prima donnas.

Strikingly similar to our interest in these heavenly bodies is that which we manifest in mortal
men. Here, too, it is the darkened orb or the eccentric comet that bespeaks especial notice.
Judged by this interest, considered in its vulgar aspects, De Quincey would suffer gross injustice.
Externally, and at one period of his life, I am certain that he had all the requisite qualifications
for collecting a mob about him, and that, had he appeared in the streets of London after one
of his long sojourns amongst the mountains, no unearthly wight of whatever description, no
tattered lunatic or Botany-Bay convict, would have been able to vie with him in the picturesque
déshabillé of the whole "turnout." Picture to yourself the scene. This "king of shreds and
patches"--for, to the outward sense, he seems that now--has been "at large" for days, perhaps
for two or three weeks; he has been unkennelled, and, among the lawless mountains, has felt
no restraint upon his own lawlessness, however Cyclopean. Doubtless he has met with panthers
and wolves, each one of whom will to its dying day retain impressive recollections of the wee
monster, from which they fled as a trifle too uncanny even for them. As to his subsistence
during these rambles, it would be very difficult to say how he managed that affair, at these,
or indeed at any other times; and it may be that the prophetic limitation of a fast to forty
days is now the urgent occasion of his return from vagabondism. One thing we may be sure of,--that
he has made plentiful use of a certain magical drug hid away in his waistcoat-pocket. Like
Wordsworth's brook, he has been wandering purposely and at his own sweet will, or rather where
his feet have taken him; and he has laid him down to sleep wherever sleep may have chanced
to find him.

The result we have here, in this uncouth specimen of humanity, in the matted hair, the soiled
garments, and the straggling gait; and what gives the finishing touch to this grotesque picture
is his utter unconsciousness of the ludicrous features of his situation, as they appear to
other eyes. Soon, it is true, he will go through an Æson-like rejuvenation; for, in a certain
cottage, there are hearts that anxiously await his return, and hands ready to fulfil their
oft-repeated duties in the way of refitting him out for another tramp. But, before this transformation
is effected, let us suppose the case of his being set down in the streets of London, somewhere
in the vicinity of Cheapside. What an eddying of stragglers about this new-found focus of attraction!
what amazement, and curiosity to find him out, if, indeed, he be find-out-able, and not, as
the unmistakable papaverian odor suggests, some Stygian bird, hailing from the farther side
of Lethe. But, Stygian or not, neither Hermes nor Pan (nor Panic, his namesake) could muster
such a rabble at his heels, supposing him to appear on Cheapside!

In his innermost sensibilities he would have shrunk from this vulgar notice as from pollution
itself. It would be monstrous to conceive of him in such situations, except for the purpose
of showing that he had very much in his outward habit that would readily attract such a notice.
In the same light we are to regard some illustrations which J. Hill Burton has given in "The
Book-Hunter" of similar features in his character, and which I take the liberty of introducing
here; for, although they have appeared in "Blackwood," and more lately in a book-form, they
are still unpublished to many of my readers.

Thus, we have him pictured to us as he appeared at a dinner, "whereto he was seduced by the
false pretence that he would there meet with one who entertained novel and anarchical views
regarding the 'Golden Ass' of Apuleius.

I cannot refrain from quoting from Mr. Burton one more example, illustrative of the fact that
De Quincey, in money-matters, considered merely the immediate and pressing exigencies of the
present.

These pictures, though true to certain phases of De Quincey's outward life, are yet far from
personally representing him, even to the eye. They satisfy curiosity, and that is about all.
As to the real character of the man, they are negative and unessential; they represent, indeed,
his utter carelessness as to all that, like dress, may at pleasure be put on or off, but "the
human child incarnate" is not thus brought before us. For, could we but once look upon his
face in rest, then should we forget these inferior attributes; just as, looking upon the Memnonian
statues, one forgets the horrid nicknames of "Shandy" and "Andy" which they have received from
casual travellers, observing merely their grotesque features. Features of this latter sort
"dislimn" and yield, as the writing on palimpsests, to the regal majesty of the divine countenance,
which none can look upon and smile. Let me paint De Quincey's face as at this moment I seem
to see it. It is wrinkled as with an Homeric antiquity; arid it is, and sallow, as parchment.
Through a certain Bedouin-like conformation,--which, however, is idealized by the lofty, massive
forehead, and by the prevailing subtilty of the general expression,--it seems fitted to desert
solitudes; and in this respect it is truly Memnonian. In another respect, also, is it Memnonian,--that,
whenever should rest upon its features the morning sunlight, we should surely await its responsive
requiem or its trembling jubilate. By a sort of instinctive palmistry (applied, not to the
hands, but to the face) we interpret symbols of ineffable sorrow and of ineffable peace. These,
too, are Memnonian,--as is also that infinite distance which seems to interpose between its
subtile meanings and the very possibility of interpretation. This air of remoteness, baffling
the impertinent crowd not less effectually than the dust which has gathered for centuries about
the heads of Sphinxes, is due partly to the deeply sunken eyes beneath the wrinkled, overarching
forehead; partly it arises from that childlike simplicity and sweetness which lurk in gentle
undulations of the features,--undulations as of happy wavelets set in motion ages since, and
that cannot cease forever; but chiefly it is born of a dream-like, brooding eternity of speculation,
which we can trace neither to the eye alone, nor to the mouth, but rather to the effect which
both together produce in the countenance.

This is the face which for more than half a century opium veiled to mortal eyes, and which
refuses to reveal itself save through hints the most fugitive and impalpable. Here are draperies
and involutions of mystery from which mere curiosity stands aloof. This is the head which we
have loved, and which in our eyes wears a triple wreath of glory: the laurel for his Apollo-like
art, the lotos-leaf for his impassioned dreams, and roses for his most gentle and loving nature.

How much of that which glorified De Quincey was due to opium? Very little as to quality, but
very much as to the degree and the peculiar manner in which original qualities and dispositions
are developed, for here it is that the only field of influence open to abnormal agencies lies.
Coleridge, as an opium-eater, is the only individual worthy of notice in the same connection.
Had he also confessed, it is uncertain what new revelations might have been made. It is certain
that opium exercised a very potent effect upon him; for it was generally after his dose that
his remarkable intellectual displays occurred. These displays were mostly confined to his conversations,
which were usually long-winded metaphysical epics, evolving a continued series of abstractions
and analyses, and, for their movement, depending upon a sort of poetic construction. A pity
it is that we must content ourselves with empty descriptions of this nature. Here, doubtless,
if anywhere, opium was an auxiliary to Coleridge. For a laudanum negus, whatever there may
be about it that is pernicious, will, to a mind that is metaphysically predisposed, open up
thoroughfares of thought which are raised above the level of the gross material, and which
lead into the region of the shadowy. Show us the man who habitually carries pills of any sort
in his waistcoat-pocket, be they opium or whatever else, and we can assure you that that man
is an aërobat,--that somehow, in one sense or another, he walks in the air above other men's
heads. Whatever disturbs the healthful isolation of the nervous system is prosperous to metaphysics,
because it attracts the mental attention to the organism through which thought is carried on.
Numerous are the instances of men who would never have been heard of as thinkers or as reflective
poets, if they had had sufficient muscular ballast to pull against their teeming brains. The
consequence of the disproportion has been that the superfluous brain has exhaled, as a mere
necessity.[A] If Tacitus had fared in any sort like his brother,--if there had been anything
like an equitable division between them of muscle and brain, it is more than probable that
we should have lost the illustrious historian.

[Footnote A: It has been adduced as an important proof of the soul's immortality, that frequently,
as physical power declines, the mind exhibits unusual activity. But the argument moves in the
opposite direction. For of what sort is this unusual activity? That which results from unbalanced
nerves; and the indications are that not only are the physical harmonies disturbed, but that
the same disturbing cause has impaired the delicate adjustments of thought itself. Sometimes
there is manifested, towards the near approach of death, an almost insane brilliancy; as, for
instance, in the case of a noted theologian, who occupied the last minutes of his ebbing life
with a very subtile mathematical discourse concerning the exceeding, the excruciating smallness
of nothing divided into infinitesimal parts. And strange as it may seem, I once heard this
identical instance cited as a triumphant vindication of the most sublime article of either
Pagan or Christian faith. Nay, from the lips of a theological professor, the fragmentary glimmerings
of a maniac's mind have been adduced for precisely the same purpose.]

Coleridge was indolent from temperament, a disposition which was increased by opium. Hence
De Quincey was of the opinion that it injured Coleridge's poetic faculties; which probably
was the case, since in genuine poetry the mind is prominently realistic, its motions are all
outward, and therefore excessive indolence must of necessity be fatal.

De Quincey's physical system, on the contrary, seemed preconformed to opium: it demanded it,
and would be satisfied with nothing else. No temptation so strong could have been presented
to Coleridge. De Quincey really craved the drug. His stomach was deranged, and was still suffering
from the sad results of his youthful wanderings in London. It seems almost as if fate had compelled
the unfortunate course into which he finally drifted. The craving first appeared in the shape
of a horrid gnawing at the stomach; afterwards this indefinite yearning gave place to a specific
one, which was unmistakable in its demands. Daily, like the daughters of the horse-leech, it
cried, "Give, give!" Toward the last, this craving became, in De Quincey's solemn belief, an
animal incarnate, and the opium-eater reasoned after the following fashion:--It is not I that
eat, it is not I that am responsible either for the fact of eating or the amount; am I the
keeper of this horrid monster's conscience? He even carried the conceit so far as to consider
a portion of each meal as especially devoted to this insane stomachic reveller, just as a voracious
Greek or Roman would have attributed no small part of his outrageous appetite to the gods,
as eating by proxy through the mouths of mortals. This is almost as bad as the case reported
of Stonewall Jackson, who, it is said, religiously believed that whatever he ate was, by some
mysterious physiological economy, conveyed into his left leg.

No less was De Quincey psychologically preconformed to opium. The prodigious mental activity
so early awakened in him counteracted the narcotic despotism of the drug, and made it a sort
of ally. The reader sees from this how much depends upon predispositions as to the effect of
opium. De Quincey himself says that the man whose daily talk is of oxen will pursue his bovine
speculations into dreams. Opium originates nothing; but, given activity of a certain type and
moving in a certain direction, and there will be perhaps through opium a multiplication of
energies and velocities. What was De Quincey without opium? is, therefore, the question preliminary
to any proper estimate as to what in him was due to opium. This question has already been answered
in the remarks made concerning his childhood. His meditative tendencies were especially noticed
as most characteristic. There was besides this a natural leaning toward the mysterious,--the
mysterious, I mean, as depending, not upon the terrible or ghostly, or upon anything which
excites gloom or fear, but upon operations that are simply inscrutable as moving in darkness.
Take, for example, the idea of a grand combination of human energies mustered together in secret,
and operating through invisible agencies for the downfall of Christianity,--an idea which was
conveyed to De Quincey in his childhood through the Abbé Baruel's book exposing such a general
conspiracy was existing throughout Europe: this was the sort of mystery which arrested and
engrossed his thoughts. Similar elements invested all secret societies with an awful grandeur
in his conception. So, too, the complicated operations of great cities such as London, which
he call the "Nation of London," where even Nature is mimicked, both in her strict regularity
of results, and in the seeming unconsciousness of all her outward phases, hiding all meaning
under the enigmas that defy solution. In order to this effect it was absolutely necessary that
there should be not simply one mystery standing alone by itself, and striking in its portentous
significance; there must have been more than this,--namely, a network of occult influences,
a vast organization, wheeling in and out upon itself, gyrating in mystic cycles and epicycles,
repeating over and again its dark omens, and displaying its insignia in a never-ending variety
of shapes. To him intricacy the most perplexing was also the most inviting. It was this which
lent an overwhelming interest to certain problems of history that presented the most labyrinthian
mazes to be disinvolved: for the demon that was in him sought after hieroglyphics that by all
others had been pronounced undecipherable; and not unfrequently it was to his eye that for
the first time there seemed to be an unknown element that must be supplied. Such a problem
was presented by the religious sect among the Hebrews entitled the Essenes. Admitting the character
and functions of this sect to have been those generally ascribed to it no special importance.
But the idea once having occurred to De Quincey that the general assumption was the farthest
removed from the truth,--than there was an unknown x in the problem, which could be satisfied
by no such meagre hypothesis,--that, to meet the urgent demands of the case, there must be
substituted for this Jewish sect an organization of no less importance than the Christian Church
itself,--that this organization, thus suddenly brought to light, was one, moreover, that, from
the most imperative necessity, veiled itself from all eyes, uttering its sublime articles of
faith, and even its very name, to itself only in secret recesses of silence:--from the moment
that all this was revealed to De Quincey, there was thenceforth no limit to his profound interest.
Two separate essays he wrote on this subject,[A] of which he seemed never to tire.

[Footnote A: Yet, marvellous as it may seem, he wrote the second without being distinctly conscious
of having written a previous one. It was no uncommon thing for him to forget his own writings.
In one case it is known that for a long time he persisted in disowning his production. His
American editor--a fact which is little known--selected, from among the mass of periodical
writings in the various magazines for which De Quincey wrote, those which, having no other
clue to guide him than, their peculiar style, he judged to have proceeded from De Quincey's
pen. In one instance,--as to the "Traditions of the Rabbins,"--after considerable examination,
he still hesitated, and finally wrote to De Quincey, to set himself right. The latter disowned
the essay: he had forgotten it. Mr. F., however, after another examination, concluded, that,
notwithstanding De Quincey's denial of the fact, he must have written it; accordingly, at his
own risk, he published it. Afterwards De Quincey owned up, and ever after that referred all
disputed cases of this nature to his Boston publishers.]

"Klosterheim" is from beginning to end only the development, through regular stages, of an
intricately involved mystery of this subtile nature. Oftentimes De Quincey deals with the horrid
tragedy of murder; but the mere fact of a murder, however shocking, was not sufficient to arrest
him. With the celebrated Williams murders, on the contrary, he was entirely taken up, since
these proceeded in accordance with designs not traceable to the cursory glance, but which tasked
the skill of a decipherer to interpret and reduce to harmony. Here were murders that revolved
musically, that modulated themselves to master-principles, and that at every stage of progress
sought alliance with the hidden mysteries of universal human nature. I know of no writer but
De Quincey who invests mysteries of this tragic order with their appropriate drapery, so that
they shall, to our imaginations, unfold the full measure of their capacities for striking awe
into our hearts.

This sort of mystery is always connected with dreams. They owe their very existence to darkness,
which withdraws them from the material limitations of every-day life; they are shifted to an
ideal proscenium; their dramatis personæ, however familiar nominally, and however much derived
from material suggestions, are yet in all their motions obedient to an alien centre as opposite
as is possible to the ordinary centre about which the mere mechanism of life revolves. We should
therefore expect beforehand in De Quincey an overruling tendency towards this remote architecture
of dreams. The careful reader of his "Autobiographic Sketches" will remember, that, at the
early age of seven, and before he knew of even the existence of opium, the least material hint
which bordered on the shadowy was sufficient to lift him up into aërial structures, and to
lead his infant footsteps amongst the clouds. Such hints, after his little sister's death,
were furnished by certain expressions of the Litany, by pictures in the stained windows of
the church, and by the tumult of the organ. Nor were the dreams thus introduced mere fantasies,
irregular and inconsistent. Throughout, they were self-sustained and majestic.

The natural effects of opium were concurrent with preëxisting tendencies of De Quincey's mind.
If, instead of having his restless intellect, he had been indolent,--if, instead of loving
the mysterious, because it invited a Titanic energy to reduce its anarchy to order, he had
loved it as simply dark or obscure,--if his natural subtilty of reflection had been less, or
if he had been endowed with inferior powers in the sublime architecture of impassioned expression,--then
might he as well have smoked a meerschaum, taken snuff or grog or any other stimulant, as to
have gone out of his way for the more refined pleasures of opium.

The reader will indulge us in a single philosophical distinction, at this point, by which we
mean to classify the effects of opium under two heads: first, the external, and, secondly,
the internal. Properly speaking, all the positive effects of opium must be internal; for all
its movements are inward in their direction, being refluent upon the focal centres of life.
Thus, one of the most noticeable phenomena connected with opium-eating is the burden of life
resting back upon the heart, which deliberately pulsates the moments of existence, as if the
most momentous issues depended upon each separate throb. But this very reflux of sensibility
will produce great effects at the surface, which are purely negative. This latter class of
effects Homer has indicated with considerable accuracy, in the ninth Odyssey, (82-105,) where
he notices specifically an air of carelessness regarding external things,--carelessness as
to the mutual interchange of conversation by question and answer, and as to the ordinary pursuits
of life as disturbing an inward peace. The same characteristics are more fully developed in
Tennyson's "Lotos-Eaters":--

  "Branches they bore of that enchanted stem,
  Laden with flower and fruit, whereof they gave
  To each; but whoso did receive of them,
  And taste, to him the gushing of the wave,
  Far, far away, did seem to mourn and rave
  On alien shores; and if his fellows spake,
  His voice was thin, as voices from the grave;
  And deaf-asleep he seemed, yet all awake,
  And music in his ears his beating heart did make."

By causing the life to flow inward upon a more ideal centre, opium deepens the consciousness,
and compels it to give testimony to processes and connections that in ordinary moments escape
unrecorded. It is as if new materials were found for a history of the individual life,--materials
which, like freshly discovered records, sound the deepest meanings of the present and measure
the abysses of the past. Thus it is that the fugitive imagery of sense is interpreted as a
scroll which hides infinite truths under the most fleeting of symbols,--symbols which are not
sufficiently enduring to call them words, or even syllables of words, since the most trivial
hint or whisper of them has hardly reached us ere they have perished. Thus it is that even
the still more intangible record of memory, where are preserved only images and echoes of that
which undeniably has perished, is revivified and enlarged.

There is, then, in the opium-eater a most marked, a polar antithesis between his every-day
life and the central manifestations of his genius. In the latter, there is beautiful order,
as in a symphony of Beethoven's; but in the former, looked upon from without, all seems confusion.
There is the same antithesis in every meditative mind; but here opium has heightened each part
of the contrast. The more we admire the encentric harmonies of inwrapt power, the more do we
find to draw forth laughter in the eccentricities of outward habit. The very same agencies
which undisguised and unveiled the deep, divine heaven, masked the earth with desert sands;
and De Quincey's outward life was thus masked and rendered abnormal, that the blue heaven in
which he revelled might be infinitely exalted.

Thus is it possible for the seemingly ludicrous to harmonize with transcendent sublimity. We
smile at De Quincey's giving in "copy" on the generous margins of a splendid "Somnium Scipionis";
but the precious words, that might perhaps have found some more fit vehicle to the composer's
eye, could have found no deeper place in our hearts. We look at the hatless sleeper among the
mountains: his face seems utterly blank and meaningless, and to all intents and purposes he
seems as good as dead; but let us ascend with him in his dreams, and we shall soon forget that
under God's heavens there exists mortality or the commonplace uses of mortality.

As we ascend from grotesque features to such as are more intellectual, that peculiarity of
his character which most strikes us is his inimitable courtesy. Mr. F.,--to whom I am indebted
for the most novel and interesting portions of this memorial,--from his own personal interviews
with the man, among many other things, retains this chiefly in remembrance,--that De Quincey
was the perfectest gentleman he had ever seen.

I take the liberty here of particularizing somewhat in regard to one visit which this friend
of De Quincey's paid him, particularly as it introduces us to the man towards the last of his
life (1851). Mr. F., curious as it may seem, found but one person in Edinburgh who could inform
him definitely as to De Quincey's whereabouts. In return to a note, giving De Quincey information
of his arrival, etc., the latter replies in a letter which is very characteristic, and which
may well be highly prized, so rarely was it that any friend was able to obtain from him such
a memento. The style, perhaps, is as familiar as it was ever his habit to indulge in; and it
shows how impossible it was for him, even on the most temporary summons, to dispense with his
usual regularity of expression or with any logical nicety of method. The letter runs thus:--

     Thursday evening, August 26, 1851.

     "My dear Sir,--The acccompanying billet from my daughter, short at
     any rate under the pressure of instant engagements, has been cut
     shorter by a sudden and very distressing headache; I, therefore,
     who (from a peculiar nervousness connected with the act of writing)
     so rarely attempt to discharge my own debts in the letter-writing
     department of life, find myself unaccountably, I might say
     mysteriously, engaged in the knight-errantry of undertaking for
     other people's. Wretched bankrupt that I am, with an absolute
     refusal on the part of the Commissioner to grant me a certificate
     of the lowest class, suddenly, and by a necessity not to be evaded,
     I am affecting the large bounties of supererogation. I appear to be
     vaporing in a spirit of vainglory; and yet it is under the mere
     coercion of 'salva necessitas' that I am surprised into this
     unparalleled instance of activity. Do you walk? That is, do you
     like walking for four hours 'on end'--(which is our archaic
     expression for continuously)? If I knew that, I would arrange
     accordingly for meeting you. The case as to distance is this. The
     Dalkeith railway, from the Waverley station, brings you to Esk
     Bank. That is its nearest approach,--its perihelion, in relation
     to ourselves; and it is precisely two and three-quarters miles
     distant from Mavis Bush,--the name of our cottage. Close to us,
     and the most noticeable object for guiding your inquiries, is Mr.
     Annandale's Paper-Mills.

     "Now, then, accordingly as you direct my motions, I will--rain
     being supposed absent--join you at your hotel in Edinburgh any time
     after 11 A.M. and walk out the whole distance, (seven miles from
     the Scott monument,) or else I will meet you at Esk Bank; or, if
     you prefer coming out in a carriage, I will await your coming here
     in that state of motionless repose which best befits a philosopher.
     Excuse my levity; and believe that with sincere pleasure we shall
     receive your obliging visit.

     "Ever your faithful servant,

     "THOMAS DE QUINCEY."

In order to appreciate the physical powers of him who proposed a walk of the distance indicated
in the letter, we must remember that he was then just sixty-six years plus ten days old. He
was now living with his daughters, in the utmost simplicity. On his arrival, Mr. F. found De
Quincey awaiting him at the door of his cottage,--a short man, with small head, and eyes that
were absolutely indescribable as human features, with a certain boyish awkwardness of manner,
but with the most urban-like courtesy and affability. From noon till dark, the time is spent
in conversation, continued, various, and eloquent. What a presence is there in this humble,
unpretending cottage! And as the stream of Olympian sweetness moves on, now in laughing ripples,
and again in a solemn majestic flood, what a past do we bring before ourselves! what a present!
For this is he that talked with Coleridge, that was the friend of Wilson,--and--what furnishes
a more sublime suggestion--this is he that knows by heart the mountain-fells and the mysterious
recesses of hidden valleys for miles around; and we think, if he could convey us from the haunts
of this Lasswade of his old age to those which glorified the Grasmere of his youth, what new
chords he might touch,--of human love, for there it was that the sweetness of his wedded life
had been buried and embalmed in a thousand outward memorials of happy hours long gone by,--and
of human sadness, for there it was that he had experienced the reversal of every outward fortune,
and the alienations of friendships which he most highly valued. But the remembrances of Grasmere
and of youth seem now to have been removed as into some other life: the man of a past generation
walks alone, and amid other scenes. And yonder is the study in which he spends hours that are
most holy,--hours consecrated to what specific employments is known to none, since across its
threshold no feet save his have passed for years. Now and then some grand intellectual effort
proceeds forth from its sacred precincts; but that only happens when pecuniary necessities
compel the exertion. How is it that the time not thus occupied is spent?--in what remembrances,
in what hidden thoughts, what passing dreams?

As it grows dark, De Quincey's guest, having spent most precious moments which he feels ought
never to cease, signifies the necessity of his taking his departure. To take leave of this
strange man, however, is not so easy a matter as one might rashly suppose. There is a genius
of procrastination about him. Was he ever known to make his appearance at any dinner in season,
or indeed at any entertainment? Yes, he did once, at the recital of a Greek tragedy on the
Edinburgh stage; but that happened through a trick played on him by an acquaintance, who, to
secure some remote chance of his seeing the performance, told him that the doors opened at
half-past six, whereas, in fact, they opened at seven. How preposterous, then, to suppose that
he would let an opportunity pass for procrastinating other people, and putting all manner of
snares about their feet! It is dangerous with such a man to hint of late hours; for just that
lateness is to him the very jewel of the thing. In mentioning the circumstance, you only suggest
to him the infinite pleasure connected with the circumstance. Perhaps he will deliberately
set to work to prove that candle-light is the one absolutely indispensable condition to genial
intercourse,--which would doubtless suggest a great contrast, in that respect, between the
ancient and modern economy,--and where, then, is there to be an end? All attempts to extricate
yourself by unravelling the net which is being woven about you are hopelessly vain; you cannot
keep pace with him. The thought of delay enchants him, and he dallies with it, as a child with
a pet delicacy. Thus, he is at the house of a friend; it storms, and a reasonable excuse is
furnished for his favorite experiment. The consequence is, that, once started in this direction,
the delay is continued for a year. Late hours were particularly potent to "draw out" De Quincey;
and, understanding this, Professor Wilson used to protract his dinners almost into the morning,
a tribute which De Quincey doubtless appreciated.

So that it is better to be on the sly about saying "Good bye" to this host of yours. When,
however, it was absolutely necessary to be gone, De Quincey forthwith insisted on accompanying
his guest. What, then, was to be done? Ominously the sky looked down upon them, momently threatening
a storm. No resource was there but to give the man his way, and accept his offer of companionship
for a short distance, painfully conscious though you are of the fact that every step taken
forwards must, during this same August night, be retraced by the weary-looking old man at your
side, who now lacks barely four years of life's average allotment. Thus you move on: and the
heavens move on their hurricanes by nearer approaches, warnings of which propagate themselves
all around you in every sound of the wind and every rustle of the forest-leaves. Meanwhile,
there is no rest to the silvery vocal utterances of your companion: every object by the way
furnishes a ready topic for conversation. Just now you are passing an antiquated old mansion,
and your guide stops to tell you that in this house may have been committed most strange and
horrible murders, that, in spite of the tempestuous mutterings heard on every side, ought now
and here to be specially and solemnly memorialized by human relation. A woman passes by, a
perfect stranger, but De Quincey steps entirely out of the road to one side, takes off his
hat, and in the most reverent attitude awaits her passage,--and you, poor astonished mortal
that you are, lest you should yourself seem scandalously uncourteous, are compelled to do likewise.
In this incident we see what infinite majesty invested the very semblance of humanity in De
Quincey's thoughts: and something of the same remarkable courtesy was manifested by Rufus Choate,
who uniformly addressed the lowest of women in the witness-box as if they were every one of
them worthy of the most queenly consideration.

Onward you proceed,--one,--two,--three miles, and you can endure no longer the thought that
your friend shall go on farther, increasing thus at every step the burden of his journey back.
You have, reached the Esk bank and the bridge which spans the stream; the storm so long threatened
begins now to let loose its rage against all unsheltered mortals. Here De Quincey consents
to bid you good-bye,--to you his last good-bye; and as here you leave him, so is he forever
enshrined in your thoughts, together with the primal mysteries of night and of storm, of human
tragedies and of the most pathetic human tenderness.

But this paper, already sufficiently prolonged, should draw to a close. It is a source of great
mortification to me that I cannot find some very disagreeable thing to say of De Quincey, merely
as a matter of poetic justice; for assuredly he was in the habit of saying all the malicious
things he could about his friends. If there was anything in a man's face or shape particularly
uncouth, you might trust De Quincey for noticing that. Even Wordsworth he could not let off
without a Parthian shot at his awkward legs and round shoulders; Dr. Parr he rated soundly
on his mean proportions; and one of the most unfortunate things which ever happened to the
Russian Emperor Alexander was to have been seen in London by De Quincey, who, even amid the
festivities of national and international congratulation on the fall of Napoleon, could not
forget that this imperial ally was a very commonplace-looking fellow, after all. But, in regard
to physical superiority, De Quincey lived in a glass house too fragile to admit of his throwing
many stones at his neighbors. The very fact that he valued personal appearance at so low an
estimate takes away the sting from his remarks on the deformities of other people: he could
not have meant any detraction, but simply wished to present a perfect picture to the eye, preserving
the ugly features with the faultless, just as we all insist on doing in regard to those we
love. De Quincey and myself, therefore, are likely to part good friends. Surely, if there was
anything which vexed the tender heart of this man, it was "the little love and the infinite
hate" which went to make up the sum of life. If morbid in any direction, it was not in that
of spite, but of love; and as an instance of almost unnatural intensity of affection, witness
his insane grief over little Kate Wordsworth's grave,--a grief which satisfied itself only
by reasonless prostrations, for whole nights, over the dark mould which covered her from his sight.

It only remains for us to look in upon De Quincey's last hours. We are enabled to take almost
the position of those who were permitted really to watch at his bedside, through a slight unpublished
sketch, from the hand of his daughter, in a letter to an American friend. I tremble almost
to use materials that personally are so sacred; but sympathy, and the tender interest which
is awakened in our hearts by such a life, are also sacred, and in privilege stand nearest to grief.

During the few last, days of his life De Quincey wandered much, mixing up "real and imaginary,
or apparently imaginary things." He complained, one night, that his feet were hot and tired.
His daughter arranged the blankets around them, saying, "Is that better, papa?" when he answered,
"Yes, my love, I think it is; you know, my dear girl, these are the feet that Christ washed."

Everything seemed to connect itself in his mind with little children. He aroused one day, and
said suddenly,--"You must know, my dear, the Edinburgh cabmen are the most brutal set of fellows
under the sun. I must tell you that I and the little children were all invited to supper with
Jesus Christ. So, as you see, it was a great honor. I thought I must buy new dresses for the
little ones; and--would you believe it possible?--when I went out with the children, these
wretches laughed at their new dresses."

"Of my brothers he often spoke, both those that are dead and those that are alive, as if they
were his own brothers. One night he said, when I entered the room,--

"'Is that you, Horace?'

"'No, papa.'

"'Oh, I see! I thought you were Horace; for he was talking to me just now, and I suppose has
just left the room.'"

Speaking of his father, one day, suddenly and without introduction, he exclaimed,--"There is
one thing I deeply regret, that I did not know my dear father better; for I am sure a better,
kinder, or juster man could never have existed."

When death seemed approaching, the physician recommended that a telegram should be sent to
the eldest daughter,[A] who resided in Ireland, but he forbade any mention of this fact to
the patient. De Quincey seemed to have a prophetic feeling that she was on her way to him,
saying, "Has M. got to that town yet, that we stopped at when we went to Ireland? How many
hours will it be before she can be here? Let me see,--there are eight hours before I can see
her, and three added to that!" His daughter came sooner than the family expected; but the time
tallied very nearly with the computation he had made. On the morning his daughter arrived occurred
the first intimation his family had seen that the hand of death was laid upon him. He had passed
a quiet, but rather sleepless night, appearing "much the same, yet more than ordinarily loving."
After greeting his child, he said, "And how does mamma's little girl like her leaving her?"
"Oh, they were very glad for me to come to grandpapa, and they sent you this kiss,--which they
did of their own accord." He seemed much pleased. It was evident that M. presented herself
to him as the mother of children, the constant theme of his wanderings. Once when his daughter
quitted the room, he said, "They are all leaving me but my dear little children." "I heard
him call, one day, distinctly, 'Florence! Florence! Florence!'--again, 'My dear, dear mother!'--and
to the last he called us 'my love,' and it sounded like no other sound ever uttered. I never
heard such pathos as there was in it, and in every tone of his voice. It gave me an idea of
a love that passeth all understanding."

[Footnote A: De Quincey, at his death, had two sons and three daughters. The, eldest of the
daughters became the wife of Robert Craig of Ireland. It was this one, and the youngest, who
were present during his last hours. The second daughter, Florence, was with her husband (a
colonel of the British army) in India. The two sons were both absent: one in India, a captain
in the army; the other, a physician, in Brazil.]

During the next night he was thought dying, "but he lingered on and on till half past nine
the next morning. He told me something about 'to-morrow morning,' and something about sunshine;
but the thought that he was talking about what he would never see drove the exact idea out
of my head, though I am sure it was morning in another world he was talking of."

"There was an extraordinary appearance of youth about him, both for some time before and after
death. He looked more like a boy of fourteen, and very beautiful. We did not like to let in
the morning light, and the candle was burning at nine o'clock, when the post brought the following
letter, which my sister and myself glanced over by the candle-light, just as we were listening
to his decreasing breath. At the moment it did not strike me with the astonishment, at such
an extraordinary coincidence, that when we came to read it afterwards it did.

     "'Brighton, Dec. 7th, 1859.

     "'My Dear De Quincey,--Before I quit this world, I most ardently
     desire to see your handwriting. In early life, that is, more than
     sixty years ago, we were school-fellows together and mutually
     attached; nay, I remember a boyish paper ("The Observer") in which
     we were engaged. Yours has been a brilliant literary career, mine
     far from brilliant, but I hope not unuseful as a theological
     student. It seems a pity we should not once more recognize one
     another before quitting the stage. I have often read your works,
     and never without remembering the promise of your talents at
     Winkfield. My life has been almost a domestic tragedy. I have four
     children in lunatic-asylums. Thank God, it is now drawing to a
     close; but it would cheer the evening of my days to receive a line
     from you, for I am, with much sincerity,

     "'Your old and attached friend,

     "'E.H.G.'

"I do not remember the name of G., but the name of Edward constantly recurred in his wanderings.

"Half an hour after the reading of that letter we heard those last pathetic sighs, so terrible
from their very softness, and saw the poor, worn-out garment laid aside." Just before he died,
he looked around the room, and said very tenderly to the nurse, the physician, and his daughters,
who were present, "Thank you,--thank you all!" Sensible thus to the very last of kindness,
he breathed out his life in simple thanks, swayed even in death by the spirit of profound courtesy
that had ruled his life.

MRS. LEWIS.

A STORY IN THREE PARTS.

PART I.

I.

"Here's something Gus Lewis would like to send by you, mother," said my hasty boy John, plunging
into the room at nine in the evening, and stumbling over two trunks, three valises, and bandboxes
countless.

The floor was strewn with bundles, and the mantel-piece adorned with letters, directed to Springfield,
Hartford, New Haven, and New York.

"Oh! ah! yes. Any packages, if not too large," said I, wistfully eying the box, (a foot square,)
full of fresh maple-sugar, with its card of direction to "Mrs. Lulu L., by the politeness of
Mrs. Prince." Boy-like.

"First of all, my John, go you to bed, where Charley has been this half-hour, and say good-bye,
for we shall be off before you are up."

"See, then, father, if you are!" retorted the wide-awake youth, going out of the room in ground
and lofty tumbling, and up-stairs in somersets.

"I don't see," said I, pettishly, "how I am to get this bundle into my trunk, nor where in
the world this great box of sugar is to go. See! not a direction! but I suppose she is in New
York somewhere."

"We shall see her at all events, which is something. I should like to know what she is like,--not
to look after her boy for two mortal years," said the Dominie.

"I hope not like Gus. He'd make an ugly woman, with his black hair and heavy eyebrows, and
his big, black eyes always staring. He don't look like an American child."

"If we could only say what an American type is. At present, it is a little of everything."

"I mean a New-Englander,--an original American."

"Well, he don't.--What do you say to these trunks? Shall we try again to compress the gigantic
genie into the copper vessel? I thought it was a dangerous move, that last one of yours, taking
out Tirzah White's quilted coat. And what's to be done with these three packages?"

"Well! we can't sit here!" said I, briskly; "half-past nine already, and only one trunk packed!
Never mind. You can put these three bundles in with your clothes."

"Bursting the lock, now."

"How easy 'tis to pack other people's things! But what, then, have you in there,--I mean, besides
your shirts, etc.?"

"Imprimis. Eight volumes of Scott's Commentaries, brought by Deacon Boardman. I am to exchange
them. They are imperfect. Item. A dozen of 'Sinbad the Sailor,' sent by mistake to the Association,
instead of Doddridge. These books won't press nor give, more than sound doctrine; and I must
have room for my gown, without which I am nothing."

The clock struck ten, and we were still struggling with unabated ardor to compress Lorana Briggs's
shawl, and the flat packages from Burt's, into the largest carpet-bag, that there might be
room for the seventeen letters on top of the minister's luggage, inside the sanctuary of his
silk gown.

"We can carry a good deal in your coat-pocket, my dear," said I, cheerfully; for really we
seemed to be coming to daylight, a little.

"Full."

The knocker sounded.

"My galoches at last! Deacon, I can't ask you to come in, we are so untidy; but I couldn't
pack as I meant to, this afternoon."

How we dreaded his coming in,--half deacon, half shoemaker, and two-thirds missionary, with
his "Panoplist" sticking out of his coat-pocket, and his ears evermore pricked up for the latest
news from Bombay! and how angry I had been for three weeks because I couldn't get those indispensable
galoches!

It seemed as if he never would go from the half-open door. He reckoned the York folks would
stare to see so many patches; he expected ministers down to York warn't quite so carfle and
troubled about many things, as they be to Weston; but he added, with a grim joyfulness,--

"We took up a good collection, though, last Sabbath! eight dollars and fifteen cents, clear!"

"Yes, Deacon," responded the minister, with as much heartiness as he could muster, between
the pushings, puffings, and pressings at the carpet-bag; "a cup of cold water shall in no wise
lose its reward, we're told.--These carpet-bags stretch well!"

"Them poor, dear heathen!" groaned the Deacon.

"Oh, dreadful!" chimed I; "give me that biggest shawl, will you?--no, the other,--Ursula Drury's!
Shall we ever finish packing?"

"S'pose ye'll see th' A.B.C.F.M.!--Lucina Rand's put in 'the avails of a hen,'--and Semela
Briggs sold the silver thimble her aunt gin her. 'T all helps the good work. I told the Widow
Rand she'd ough' to do somethin' for the heathen, so she's gone to raisin' mustard. She said
she hadn't more 'n a grain o' that to spare, she was so poor; but I told her 't would be blest,
I guessed. Widow Rand's rather worldly-minded, I'm afraid."

A minute more and we should have had Hindostan, Harriet Newell, and Juggernaut. Happily, somebody
came for the Deacon, and we were left to our packing again.

II.

This was the second week in May, in the year 1830. We were a promising country, but had not
yet performed. Neither railroads, telegraphs, nor cheap postage had been established. Enthusiastic
inventors yet sucked their fingers in garrets, waiting for the good time coming; and philanthropic
statesmen aired their vocabularies in vain, in Congressional halls, built in defiance of acoustics.
Their words rose, their fine sentiments curled up and down the pillars of the temple of eloquence,
and fell flat to the floor. Meanwhile human nature travelled by stage-coaches; and postage
for over a hundred miles rose to eighteen cents. Not a lover's sigh for a cent less; and it
took a fortune for persons of sensibility to exchange sentiments.

The consequence to country-people of this last-mentioned fact was, that everybody who went
anywhere took everybody's letters, and, as there were no expresses, added, of course, everybody's
packages and messages. And the consequence of this was, that everybody made everybody's purchases,
whether gowns, books, bonnets, or what not. It mattered little who did errands, so only they
were done. Generally, the one store-keeper bought our bonnets when he went to Boston for his
yearly stock of goods, and our one bonnet lasted in those days a year, being retrimmed for
winter weather. I remember, too, when our one store-keeper, mingling in the æsthetic conversation
at one of our parties, where Art was on the tapis, made a comical mistake, but one natural
enough, too,--stating that he could buy, and had bought, Vandykes for ten dollars. We were
not thinking of exactly the same kind of Vandyke that he was.

Many a time have I carried in my trunk more letters than the mail-bag did to Boston, and conscientiously
finished all the parish's business before touching my own.

A certain amount of self-complacency and satisfaction is felt, and laudably earned, by being
intrusted with commissions; and I flatter myself few persons ever set off for New York with
such an array of them as I did on this occasion.

Looking over my list, I must confess to a flush of real enjoyment at finding carte blanche
for a scarf. "Now, that is something like!" said I. "I can see now how pleasantly an artist
feels, or would feel, at an order for a picture,--'your own subject,--your own terms.' Miss
Patty Jones knows what is what, and shall be my patroness."

And did I not vindicate triumphantly Miss Patty's confidence? I knew better than to buy her
a gray and brown thing, merely because she, too, was gray and brown. I wreathed her with lilies
and hyacinths and French green leaves, and she blossomed under it like a rose. If she were
not the garland, she wore it, and so borrowed bloom and gay freshness. She extolled my taste
to all Weston.

Then Mrs. Eben Loring had concluded on the whole that I should buy her a hat, in Maiden Lane,
at the very tip-top milliner's. The thought of my return was somewhat embittered by the prospective
necessity of carrying two very large bandboxes in my lap, in case of rain. Rain might not unreasonably
be expected in the course of a three days' journey. Think of all the bandboxes that in such
a case would be put in at the coach-window by the driver, to be held in the hapless laps of
the nine passengers! Almost I was persuaded to leave my own black satin bonnet, and perambulate
the streets of New York in my travelling-calash, which looked exactly like, and was nearly
of the size of, a "bellows-top shay."

I was thinking of this last sacrifice, when my husband said, in a dreamy, bewildered way,--

"Here are five boxes, mother, two bundles, and the rest of these books. I give up!"

"Give up? Not I! Now, where a man's energies are exhausted, a woman's just begin to show themselves.
First and foremost, lock this trunk, and let me put the key in my pocket. That's one thing
done, and can't be undone."

He stepped back from the trunk.

"What's this? all your clothes on the floor!"

"Well, yes, my dear, most of 'em. You see, I couldn't leave Zipporah Haven's shawl out, which
she sends to her grandmother; and I must put in these bundles of the Burts's, and Mary Skinner's
box of linen thread. If my own things are lost, why, they must be replaced, you know, my dear;
that is all."

"And we must keep a good lookout, ourselves, that our bandboxes and bundles don't fall off
behind," replied the Dominie, faintly.

"Yes; and you can put the small trunk under my feet, and the big basket under your own, and
you will keep an eye on my red shawl,--and pray don't lose the umbrella, nor your great-coat,
nor your cane. I will, on my part, see to these three small bundles, and my parasol. Doubtless
we shall go on smoothly as need be, only I am afraid you won't be able to think up many sermons
on the highway. There! I forgot the jar of currant-jelly to go to Ruth Hoyt's aunt! However,
we must manage somehow. You are sure our names are down at the stage-office?"

But, like Charles XII., "after Pultowa's dreadful day," when the tale-teller listened for his
sympathy,

  "The king had been an hour asleep."

I am ashamed to say that I must have lost myself after that, though I thought I was only thinking
of the Day of Judgment. But I must have dreamed it, or how should I have thought it the last
trumpet, when it was only the stage-driver's warning knock?

It was delightful to hear the knock, and the simultaneous clang of pots and pans which assured
us, that, though night had been no night to us, the dark morning would usher in our breakfast
with coffee by the faithful Polly. The driver coming in again before we had finished, we seduced
him without scruple into taking a cup of boiling comfort, while we guiltily collected the waifs
and strays of our multifarious luggage. Many a time I have waited, myself, in the coach, while
similar orgies were going on among the unready, so I know just how vexed and impatient the
passengers were. But what use to go on without the driver? At last we squeezed into the full stage.

III.

No sooner in than out, however. I was determined not to die before my time, as I was sure to
do on the back-seat of an overloaded stage, with nine passengers, besides numerous, because
gratuitously earned, children. "For who," as it was sometimes pertinently asked, "would charge
anything for a poor little innocent child?" The younger, the more innocent, of course, and
the more numerous.

"If you'll set up here 'long o' me, Miss Prince, there's a plenty o' room,--and for you, too,
Parson," said the good-natured driver.

Extricating ourselves from the Black Hole, we delightedly clambered to the heights above, regardless
of risk, and catching at wheel and step like Alpine hunters. How comfortable the seat was,
with the fresh, early morning air blowing freely in our faces! How small the horses looked
in the dim light of three o'clock! How oddly the wheel-horses looked, all backs and no legs!--and
how mysteriously many were the reins that were tied round and round the iron lantern-rod!

"Just let me put the mail-bag under your feet, Miss Prince. Here we are, now, all right, and
nothin' to do but go along!"

"Now, then!"

"Come up! come! come!"

But in vain were caresses; in vain were chirrups, duckings, and kisses, wafted to the nigh
leader. Like the rebellious South of to-day, he had taken his attitude, and stood now on four
legs, now on two, pawing only the dark air, and regardless of the general welfare behind him.

"Now what will you do, driver?" said cowardly I, who, always mortally afraid of horse-flesh,
felt on this occasion a strange confidence: partly in the staid, heavy mass of determination
beside me, who looked so calm and good-natured; and partly in the queer, elfin look of the
beast, who seemed so far off as to have no necessary connection with our safety or ultimate
progress. It seemed quite possible for us to get on with the other three pulling, while our
demoniacal friend ornamented the occasion by plunges, rearings, and kickings.

Still gathering the reins lightly in his large hand, the stable and sure intelligence beside
me calmly chirruped, and then as calmly switched his long whip at the distant rebel brute.
How the switching and snapping galled his proud neck! How his black back curved, and his small
head tossed! Still, he would not pull an ounce, but just pawed like a fairy horse, or as if
he were born to tread on clouds alone, or to herald in the morning.

"He'll start by-'m-by,--he's a devil of a spirit in him, when he doos start," remarked our
Phoebus, composedly, giving, through the darkness, the unerring switch every half minute.

What acted on the capricious thing at last,--whether the Inevitability behind him, or the folly
exhausting itself, nobody knows; but the "beautiful disdain" left his black back and tossing
mane in a moment, and he buckled down to his work with an energy worthy of the cause, and with
a good-will that was an example to the other three.

"There! you see he can do well enough, 'f he's jest a mind to! nothin' wantin' but the will!
There's a pair on 'em," said the driver, "but I won't never drive 'em together. Staples drove
the pair last summer. He says they'd run till they dropped down dead. I guess they would. He's
a putty critter enough, and well made, but dreadful ugly. Now, I like that 'ere wheeler!"--he
pointed his whip towards the horse below my foot. "She's kind,--that mare is; and she's fast
enough, and handsome. Broad back,--short legs,--goes like a duck!"

In such pleasant chat (and why not? for wasn't the driver a cousin of my own?--a man of means,--owning
his team,--and with more knowledge of his district than most members of Congress have? Indeed,
I believe he's in Congress this minute!) we pulled up hill and tore down dale. Nobody knows
a hill by experience but New-Hampshire travellers. The Green Mountains are full of comparatively
gentle slopes, and verdure crowns their highest and tallest tops; but the hills of New Hampshire
are Alpine in their steepness and barrenness, and the roads of old time made by the Puritans
took the Devil by the horns. There was no circuitous, soothing, easy passage. The road ran
straight over mountains and pitched deep down ravines, the surveyors having evidently kept
only in view the shortest air-line between places.

Sometimes we chained the wheels, but not often. Oftenest we ran down a steep place, and the
impetus carried us up the opposite hill. At the foot of a long hill, of a two-mile stretch,
the driver generally stopped, to indicate the propriety of the male passengers, at least, ascending
the hill on foot. And often the whole stage-load gladly availed itself of the permission. It
was handy for the owners of bandboxes, to pick them up from the rocky road, as they tumbled
off now and then; and the four beasts, like those in Revelation, said "Amen" to the kindly
impulse of humanity that lightened their load, and left them to scramble comfortably from one
side to the other of the still ascending path. When they did get to the top of some of those
Walpole hills, would they could have taken in the living glory and beauty of the far-reaching
and most magnificent landscape!

IV.

We had the mails to change at the post-offices, and a seemingly inexhaustible store, intrusted
to the care and courtesy of the driver, and surrounding him like a rampart,--of newspapers,
bundles, cans, pillow-cases full of dried apples, and often letters.

At the red house near the mill below Surrey, a sweet-looking girl ran out, as we passed, holding
her hand forward for a letter, which our driver pretended to drop half a dozen times, on purpose
to tantalize her. It was pretty to see her blushing, sparkling face, as the blood danced to
her brow with hope, and back with the baffled expectancy to her heart.

"Neouw, Sil, be still! give to me, yeouw!"

If it hadn't been Yankee, it was soft and melodious enough for an Italian peasant. As picturesque,
too, was her short, blue woollen petticoat, and white short-gown, that "half hid and half revealed"
the unconstrained grace of healthy mountain-nature; and more modest the happy look with which
she received the letter at last, and flew with it like a bird back to the red nest.

"A love-letter, I suppose," said I, answering the twinkle of the driver's good-natured eye.

"Wal, I expect 's likely. They've been sparking now over a year. And it's a pity, too, such
a real clever girl as that is! She a'n't so dreadful bright, but she's real clever, and ough'
to hev a better chance 'n Jim Ruggles."

"A bad match for her?"

"Wal, Jim's a good feller enough, but he drinks. I don't mean to say nothin' agin moderate
drinkin'. I drink myself moderately. But Jim's a real sponge. He'd drink all day hard and never
show it, without it is bein' cross, maybe, and paler 'n common. Now I say,--and I a'n't no
'reformed inebriate,' nor Father Matthew sort,--but I do say, and will hold to it, such a man
at twenty-one makes a poor beginnin'. If he lives, he'll be a poor shote, and no mistake. I'm
sorry for the gal."

"Somebody ought to tell her. Why not you?"

"Wal, what's the good on 't? She wouldn't hear a word. When a woman's once sot her mind, don't
do no good to talk. For that matter, talkin' never did do much, I'm thinkin',--exceptin' preachin'.
We're bound to hear that, Parson," he added, laughing, and with a nod which might seem respectful.

In three hours we had driven thirteen miles. Pretty good progress this of a warm day, and with
a full complement of passengers. We had watched the sun rise over Walpole hills, and the specks
in the distance where the early farmers were ploughing and sowing. The breaking day, the bursting
spring, and all the outward melodies with which the welcoming day rings as we toil on, are
so many incentives to appetite, and we are all sharp for the ready breakfast, at six o'clock.

Then, as I am talking of the past, and not of the present, there was time enough: time enough
for the comfortable discussion of breakfast, for the changing of raiment among the babies,
for chatting in the bar-room, for the interchange of news among the men, and even for glasses
of milk-punch. Tell it not in modern Gath that even the Dominie spiced his half-mug of flip
with an anecdote, and that every man and woman took cider as well as coffee.

How can I describe the events and vicissitudes that befell us during this journey of three
days and a half to New York? Modern travellers, who are, or are not, as it happens, run off
the track, smashed up, or otherwise suddenly and summarily disposed of, have little notion
of our successive and amusing accidents, and of how they diversified and occupied the mind,
so as entirely to preclude the ennui which comes from railroad-travelling, with its ninety-nine
chances of safety to one of accident.

That we were tipped out and over repeatedly,--that one of the leaders had fits, (which amiable
weakness was understood and allowed for by our driver, who was in hopes the critter wouldn't
have 'em that day,)--that the coach wholly collapsed once, letting all the patient passengers
into a promiscuous heap of unbroken bones,--this, and such as this, will be easily believed
by any New-England traveller who remembers thirty years back. But how we fell so softly that
the brains were never damaged,--why falling into ditches at night wasn't an unhealthy process,--and,
above all, how the driver's stock of leathern straps, strings, and nails should always prove
exhaustless, and be always so wonderfully adapted to every emergency,--that was a wonder, and
is a wonder still to me. No amount of mechanical skill, though the Yankee has made machines
that almost think, and altogether do, for him, has superseded or exhausted his natural tact,
expediency, and invention. With string and nail in his pocket, I would defy the horses of Phoebus
to get away from a Yankee, or his chariot to get out of gear; and if Phaeton had only been
a Vermonter, the deserts of Ethiopia might to this day have been covered with roses instead
of sand. Our driver, though he didn't know his own powers, knew all about Phoebus, and had
read Virgil and Ovid by the light of a pine-knot in his father's kitchen. This rude culture
is the commonest fact among our mountaineers.

We "stopped over" one day in Hartford, to see the deaf-mutes. Their bright, concentrated, eager
looks haunted me long after. I should like to know who would stop anywhere now to see anything!
One might as well be put into a gun and fired off to New York as go there now by steam-cars.
Line a gun with red plush, and it is not unlike a "resonant steam-eagle." And you would see
as much in one as in the other.

But travelling in 1830 enlarged your mind. A journey then was one as was a journey. You saw
people, you made their acquaintance, you entered their hearts and took lodgings,--sometimes
for life.

Then the country! You saw that, too,--not the poorest part of it, scooting round wherever it
is most level, till you pronounce the whole way flat, and are glad to shut your eyes and listen
to the engine, rather than have them ache with seeing everything you would never wish to look at!

All these days were full of great, beautiful pictures. From the time we leave the Granite State,
with it a wild, fierce grandeur, its long, dreary reaches of unfertile pastures, and its wealth
of stone wall,--so abundant that travellers wonder where the stones came from to build it,
seeing no lack in the road or field,--from the time we enter on trim, well-kept Massachusetts,
the panorama shifts with ever new interest and beauty. We leave the pretentious brick houses,
or the glaring white ones, which mark the uncultivated taste of the American Switzerland, and
enter for the first time regions impressed with the necessary element of fine landscape, maturity.
With and under the old oaks and birches rest the sad-colored houses that have held life and
experience,--birth, death, and old historic adventure.

Looking over the broad meadows that skirt the Connecticut by Hadley and Northampton, one seems
to see under the distant oaks spectral shapes of Indian struggle, or wandering regicides, hiding
their noble heads in caves, or bursting out like white spirits to lead and avenge. The air
is peopled with traditions far back from the present, but with which the grave, imposing, characteristic
landscape seems still to sympathize.

In two days we emerged from the brown chrysalis of a New-Hampshire spring into the exultant
richness of the winged butterfly,--into white, fragrant fields of blossoming fruit, and the
odor of tree-lilacs.

In my enchantment at the bounteous panorama that spread out before me in ever varying abundance,
I forgot to cultivate any interest in my fellow-passengers, and, except in listening to some
communicative old women, might really, as far as society was concerned, as well have been travelling
in the style of to-day. Beyond the casual acquaintances I made when rain compelled me to indoor
chat, I saw nobody who interested me until we reached Springfield. There, at the top of the
first short hill outside the town, after looking back on the white houses standing in the river-mist
like so many ghosts in white muslin, I saw somebody whom my prophetic soul announced as a companion,
looking wholly unlike a ghost, and very unlike a mist. He raised his hand, just as we were
about passing him, as if signalling an omnibus, and our driver suddenly reined in his team.

A full, hearty voice, not a bit nasal, but fresh from the broad chest, showed us a traveller
by the road-side, waiting to be taken up.

He sprang with two bounds to the top of the coach, and made room for himself just above us
among the countless boxes.

"Don't let me disturb you, Madam All right. Just room for my bag. Go on, driver."

"Fine day," said we.

"A warm morning. I have been walking for the last fifteen miles,--but the sun is too hot for me."

He took off his travelling-hat of weather-beaten Panama, and dried his broad brow with his
handkerchief. Then he looked at us with clear blue eyes, and tossed back his curling brown
hair. He had a gray travelling-dress, such as everybody wears now, but which was then a novelty;
and something in his curt, clear accents, and his crimson lips, and the fresh life in his limbs
and action, betrayed that he was not an American. So much the better.

V.

I said he looked sharply at us two. He seemed to have a habit of investigating, at least to
a certain extent; and he took us in at once, evidently. A country-parson and his wife. If I
say his pretty wife, I will promise faithfully that it shall be the last time I will refer
to myself or my prettiness, the whole way, further than may be absolutely necessary; and it
isn't every woman who will do as much. For with this man and his belongings I came to have
much to do in the course of the next five years. Little thought I, as I heard him chatting
soberly with my husband, and nodding from time to time gravely at me, as If to take me into
the conversation,--little thought I of the shadow he would one day cast over both of our lives!

He showed us his travelling-apparatus for making a cup of tea in ten minutes, toasting bread,
and boiling eggs. It was like a doll's cooking-stove six inches square, a curious invention,
new then, and a wonderful convenience.

"With my tea and this," said he, "I can go over the United States. Good bread and sweet butter
I can always get at your farm-houses, and I often walk fifty miles together."

We looked and spoke our New-English astonishment. In our part of the world nobody walked anywhere.
Everybody, however poor, had a wagon, if not a chaise; and he must be miserable indeed who
did not own at least one horse. Nobody in his sober senses demeaned himself to walking. Perhaps
it was the climate. Perhaps our fathers instituted the custom, to be as unlike the British
as possible,--as they did of making their houses like lanterns, to show they had no window-tax
to pay.

This man's hearty voice and healthy frame, charged, as it seemed, with fresh air, jollity,
and strength, made us think better of walking. We looked at his six feet of height, his broad
chest, and his firmly knit limbs, and fancied how Antaeus gained supernatural vigor from natural
contact: he trod the earth with a loving and free step, as a child approaches and caresses
his mother. So, too, his voice, and the topics he chose in talking, gave us the feeling of
out-door existence always connected with him: of singing-birds, and the breeze of mountain-tops,
of great walnut- and chesnut-trees, and children gathering nuts beneath; never of the solemn
hush of pines, or twilight, or anything "sough"-ing or whispering: no, all about him sounded
like the free, dashing, rushing water. So were his bright blue eyes, merry lips, and wind-crimsoned
cheeks, interpreters of his nature. They linked him firmly to the outward. The man's soul was
made up of joyfulness, strength, and a sort of purposeless activity,--energy for its own sake.
While his energies harmonized with the right, or were exercised in the pursuit of knowledge,
one felt that he would have much power for good. But suppose his activities to take a wrong
direction, all his powers would help him to be and enjoy the wrong. In either case, his nature
would have the same harmonious energy, and the moral part of him would not disturb the balance
of his character. He had no special liking for evil, I am sure; yet, according to all the theories,
his intense love of Nature ought to have elevated and refined him far more than it had done.

Before we had been an hour together, I had also observed that he was good-natured, impulsive,
and, in a sort, kindly,--that he loved himself and his own enjoyment too well ever knowingly
to annoy or distress another. There is a little difference between this and kindness. No matter
how I found him out. He who runs may read, if he looks sharply enough; and in travelling, people
betray and assert character continually. I was also as sure as I was years afterwards, that
he would walk rough-shod over heart-violets and -daisies, nor once notice them bleeding under
his heel. It was in the grain of the man's nature. He had lived at least thirty-five years,
and was too old to be made over into anything else by any experience.

His bag was half full of tulip-bulbs which he had bought and begged, he said. He had a passion
at present for cultivating tulips, and was quite sure, that, if he had lived in the seventeenth
instead of the nineteenth century, he would have ruined himself twenty times over for a favorite
bulb, even without being a Dutchman.

His dominant idea, to which for the first hour he sacrificed without scruple every other, was
flowers. I had a mischievous pleasure in professing a similar passion, on purpose to confound
him with a description of a Weston flower-garden. If he talked of jessamine and Daphne odora,
I talked of phlox and bachelor's-buttons. If he raved of azaleas and gladioluses, I told him
of our China-asters, sunflowers, and hollyhocks.

"Ah, now I see you are laughing at me!" said he, good-humoredly, after I had said, that, after
all, I could not get up an admiration for day-lilies or tulips; "promise me that I may show
you my tulips, and I will promise you that you shall like botany hereafter."

We agreed at last to bury the hatchet at the foot of a rose-bush, which I said I would allow,
excused the existence of other flowers. The bulbs he gave me on the top of the stage-coach
that day made a revolution in the taste of Weston; and some climbing plants, from his house
afterwards, took root in our rude homes, and have displaced the old glaring colors with soft
beauty and grace. Before I left Weston, which happened in time, we had prairie-roses, honeysuckles,
and woodbine clambering over half the houses in the place, and bouncing-Bets were extinguished
forever.

I forgot that we had never heard this man's name, though it did not matter at all. He was a
cultivated gentleman, and we had no occasion for introduction. We met freely on that platform,
and it was pleasant to us to talk on so many subjects outside of personal interest. He had
travelled, and gave us results, in a sketchy, off-hand way, of much that he had observed that
was extremely entertaining in foreign manners.

Suddenly his loud, cheery voice rang out,--

"Halloo, old boy, get up here!"

He did get up, a languid, pale man, with sharp features, and a frame so attenuated that I involuntarily
placed a soft bag for him to lean against, and removed a cane and umbrella that seemed likely
to hurt his bones.

It was about half an hour before I saw that the new man was not at all an invalid, but of the
natural gaunt frame and pallid complexion of my countrymen. My eyes had become so full of the
fresh, rosy life of the Englishman's face, that the new man's face was bleached and unhealthy
to me. I happened to glance back from him to the Dominie, and saw, that, allowing for green
spectacles, they were both of a color. We were so arranged on the top of the coach, that with
reasonable twisting of necks we were able to maintain an animated conversation, and soon found
our account in the new element.

"Well, Remington!"

"Well, Lewis!"

"Where from now?"

"From Niagara, and home by the White Hills."

"And what of the last, or of both?"

"Miss Rugg has fallen into the one, and Miss Somebody has been to the top of the other. Had
to be brought down, though. Women shouldn't climb mountains."

"There has been some talk of a road, or practicable path at least, to the top of Mount Washington."

"Never'll be done. Impossible on the face of the thing."

"Nothing is impossible to Yankees, Remington."

"This is. And now, Lewis, whence come you, and whither go?"

"From Weston, and to New York."

Here was a denouement! We looked at him with new interest, and saw at once, such was the force
of imagination, the very eyes and eyebrows of Gus Lewis. However, it proved afterwards to be
only imagination. When we told him we came from Weston only two days and a half before, the
conversation assumed the native style of New England, and for the next quarter of an hour we
talked of each other and each other's affairs.' Mr. Lewis was delighted to see us, had stayed
only an hour in Weston, and there heard of our trip from Auguste,--profanely called Gus,--took
the box of maple-sugar in charge at once, laughed at the boy-like direction without even a
surname, and ended with recommending us to go at once to Miss Post's, on Broadway, where himself
and his wife were at present boarding. All the particulars of life, character, and relative
interests were discussed between ourselves and Mr. Lewis with the relish and zest of compatriots.
I had forgotten how close a tie was that of Yankee birth, and how like an unknown tongue our
talk was to the Englishman, till we stopped and turned to him to say something, and found him
fast asleep. Then I was glad that he hadn't heard my satirical description of "donation-parties"
at Weston, nor the account I gave of our two boys, our salary of five hundred dollars, and
the various comical shifts we had to make to live comfortably on that sum and support aged
parents and graceless relations. Little touches told Mr. Lewis the whole story. I knew very
well that Mr. Remington would be entirely abroad about such a social existence as ours in Weston,
travel he ever so long or widely.

Mr. Lewis had black eyes and hair, and bent like an habitual student. He had a scar on his
right eyebrow, which he had got by a fall, and by which he had saved the life of Mr. Remington,
who was a connection of his wife's. This he told us, afterwards, and I amused myself with drawing
parallels between his face and his mind. One side was gentle, sweet-humored, sentimental, with
a touch of melancholy. The other, disfigured with the scar, seemed to have been turned harsh,
suspicious, proud, reserved, and unrelenting. These were many qualities, all to depend on a
scar, to be sure; but they generally herd together, and he might be one man or another, as
life presented its dark or sunny side to him. To me, he was very interesting, from the first;
and my husband was delighted with him. The Dominie starved in Weston for congenial intellectual
nutriment. Nobody but myself could tell what a drain it was on him always to impart, always
to simplify, to descend, to walk on the ground with wings folded flat to his back, and the
angel in him habitually kept out of view. The most he could do was to insinuate now and then
a thought above the farming interest, and in a direction aside from Bombay. More than that
exposed him to suspicion, and hindered his usefulness in Coös County.

Somehow, we got talking of Mr. Remington, which we might well do, seeing him there before us,
sleeping like a baby.

"That he could always do, like Napoleon," said Mr. Lewis, "and so can accomplish much without
fatigue."

"Is he married?" said I.

"Yes. His wife is in delicate health."

I was surprised to hear that he was married.

"He hasn't a married look, has he?"

"You are talking about me," said Remington, waking up. "I felt it mesmerically. And, to give
you a good opportunity, I will walk a mile or two. Give me a good character, Lewis. Hold up,
driver!"

Springing down, he went on, laughing, before us, now and then calling back to ask if we were
nearly through?

"He has not the 'subdued domestic smile upon his features mild', that marks the man who has
a wife at home," said I.

"No. He is a man, however, born under a lucky star, and his cup filled with good-fortune to
the brim. His self-lordship has been to him no heritage of woe, thus far."

"A certain happiness, but necessarily of a poor quality, comes from being able to gratify our
wishes. If he has no more, it is poor enough."

"Do you mean that pleasure must be an outgrowth of pain to be properly appreciated?" said Mr.
Lewis.

"Somewhat,--mostly," said the minister; "since the insensibility that protects one from pain
prevents also delicate picture. I think, indeed, a rational being must suffer in order to enjoy,
after infancy."

"His eyes don't look as if they had been in training of any sort," said I, without knowing
what my words implied, till I saw the harsh expression on Mr. Lewis's face.'

"I mean that they have a sort of undisciplined expression, as if he had never been tamed by
suffering or sorrow of any sort," said I.

"That sadness is the true human look," said the minister, "the look that redeems us from the
mere animal expression of enjoyment. It is the stamp God puts on those He loves. He chastens
them; after that, they are no more servants, but sons of the house."

I saw by Mr. Lewis's eyes that he understood and felt this. Also, that from his nature he bought
his enjoyments every step of the way of life. How differently his cousin laid hold on the cornucopia
of enjoyment, and covered himself with bountiful beauty, drinking in at every sense pleasure!
The former, as could be seen too, held his title to happiness by the most uncertain tenure;
the nervous quiver betraying, and the sensitive blood witnessing, how keenly he felt and how
dearly he paid for every passing pleasure. I remember, as I saw his purple, thrilling face,
that I hoped his home-life was happy, feeling that to such a man it must be everything. Yet
I was sure, from what he did not say, with eye or lips, that he had not learned religious trust.
Still, he did not listen to the mere minister, but to the friend; and there sprang up between
the two the corresponding interest and respect belonging to natures kindred in depth and sensibility,
though of widely differing experience. In after-years, he who had already attained was able
frequently to hold out a helping hand to his younger brother; but now, only a smile and a look
told much. This acquaintance of the soul is very fascinating. In the two or three steps we
take together, with cognizance and measure of each other, what a long path opens before us
of alternate shade and sunshine, and how imagination borders every step of the way with richest
heart-blossoms! In friendship, all is glowing and enriching. As it has not the depth of love,
it neither anticipates nor requires sacrifice. We do not think of doing or suffering for a
friend; but the friend ministers to our weakness, and exalts our strength. He sympathizes gently
with our self-love, he magnifies every excellence. He is perpetually charmed, alike with the
novelty and the similarity of our experience, and unwearied in comparing thoughts and balancing
opinions. All, and more, that he gives us, he receives; and so an incipient friendship is one
of the most intoxicating delights of life. What long leaps in acquaintance we took during our
first hour, and while Mr. Remington still walked up-hill before us!

"You will probably have an opportunity to see and judge for yourselves of Mr. Remington, as
we are together a great deal, and he is a cousin of Mrs. Lewis's. This will be better than
for me to attempt a description, I think, and, on the whole, more satisfactory. He annoys me,
and offends me frequently; and then I am not just to him, of course. But he is a fine fellow,
honorable and agreeable; and with a love of natural science that leads him, for the time, like
a dog. Just now, he is wild with floriculture. Last year, it was geology. You will see."

And then, as if he feared to trust himself with his cousin's character, or that it was a distasteful
subject for some reason, he turned to the minister, and began talking about Cherry Mountain
and the scenery in Coös.

Mr. Remington called out, at the top of the hill,--

"Now it is my turn! Let me ride, and I will give your character!"

"Oh! we don't need it, I assure you," said I; "we understand him entirely."

"Not a bit of it!" said he, shaking his brown curls; "I am the transparent one."

He stepped up on the wheel-hub to get his bag, and to say he should strike off for Middleton
on foot. He would see us very soon in New York, and claim our promise to visit him.

Being relieved from the fascination of personal beauty and presence, with only the impression
of character remaining, I was a little ashamed to find how much I had liked, without being
at all able to esteem him. It was with a very different feeling that I looked at Mr. Lewis,
whose ugly, positively ugly face was being perpetually transfigured with emotion and variety.
Without grace of feature or figure, he impressed one as a living soul; and this inward light
gave a translucent beauty to the frail, chance-shapen vase, which all Mr. Remington's personal
advantages of form and color failed to impress us with. Only dark eyes of un-sounded depth,
and a voice whose rich cadences had an answering rhythm in the inward man, showed what his
attractions might be, or were, to a woman. We became curious to see Mrs. Lewis, of whom we
gained no idea from his casual references to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

LYRICS OF THE STREET.

  VI.

  PLAY.

  From yon den of double-dealing,
      With its Devil's host,
  Come I, maddened out of healing:
             All is lost!

  So the false wine cannot blind me,
      Nor the braggart toast;
  But I know that Hell doth bind me:
             All is lost!

  Where the lavish gain attracts us,
      And the easy cost,
  While the damning dicer backs us,
             All is lost!

  Blest the rustic in his furrows,
      Toil- and sweat-embossed;
  Blest are honest souls in sorrows.
             All is lost!

  Wifely love, the closer clinging
      When men need thee most,
  Shall I come, dishonor bringing?
             All is lost!

  Babe in silken cradle lying,
      To low music tossed,
  Will they wake thee for my dying?
             All is lost!

  Yonder where the river grimly
      Whitens, like a ghost,
  Must I plunge and perish dimly;
             All is lost!

INTERESTING MANUSCRIPTS OF EDMUND BURKE. If we were in the mood, we might take advantage of
interesting manuscripts of Edmund Burke, which are now before us, to say something of this
remarkable character. But we shall confine ourselves for the present to a passing glance at
the manuscripts which have strayed across the Atlantic.[A]

[Footnote A: These manuscripts are now in the possession of the Hon. Charles Sumner, who is
also the fortunate owner of the Album Amicorum containing the autograph of John Milton.--ED.]

The authentic manuscripts of Burke have passed through several hands. On his death, they were
intrusted to the eminent civilian, Dr. French Lawrence, of Doctors' Commons, and to Dr. King,
afterwards Bishop of Rochester. To these two gentlemen we are indebted for the first eight
volumes of the London octavo edition of Burke's Works. The career of Dr. Lawrence was cut short
by death in 1809. His associate had the exclusive charge of the papers till 1812, when the
venerable widow of Burke died at Beaconsfield, and by her last will gave to Earl Fitzwilliam,
the Bishop of Rochester, and the Right Honorable William Elliott the entire direction of the
printing and publishing of such parts of the works of her late husband as were not published
before her decease,--bequeathing to them all the printed and manuscript papers for this purpose.
Eight more volumes were published by the Bishop, who died in 1828, a few months after the publication
of the fifteenth and sixteenth volumes. Mr. Elliott had already died in 1818. The papers now
came into the sole possession of Earl Fitzwilliam, the distinguished nobleman associated with
the latter portion of Burke's life, from whom they descended to his son, the late Earl Fitzwilliam,
who, in conjunction with Sir Richard Bourke, published, in 1844, the four volumes of correspondence,
with a few notes of unpublished speeches.

We have personal reason to know that there are yet other unpublished manuscripts of Burke in
the hands of Lord Fitzwilliam, some of which it was our fortune many years ago to inspect.
Mr. Macknight, it appears, applied to the present Earl for permission to publish some of those
which are preserved in the archives of Wentworth House, but, "out of obedience to the expressed
wish of his father, who published all he thought necessary, he declined to sanction any further
publication of these documents."[A]

[Footnote A: Macknight's Life of Burke, Vol. III. p. 737.]

There are also letters of Burke which from time to time have seen the light, as they were communicated
by their possessors. Among these none equals in interest that addressed to Pitt with regard
to his pension, which has been printed recently by Lord Stanhope, in his small, but rich and
rare collection, entitled "Miscellanies." This important letter came to light among the papers
of Pitt, and has been described by Macaulay as "interesting and very characteristic."

The manuscripts now before us are none of these. They have a history of their own.

They constitute a thin volume in folio, neatly bound, having a book-mark, and arms with the
name of Fillingham. Here are four familiar autograph-letters from Burke to his amanuensis,
Swift, all of them written from Margate, on the sea-shore, and bearing Burke's frank as a member
of Parliament. According to habit with us, the frank of a member of Congress is written in
the right-hand upper corner of the superscription, while the old English frank is in the left-hand
lower corner. But English law, while the privilege of franking existed, required also that
the name of the place where the letter was pasted, and the day on which it was posted, written
at length, should appear in the superscription. Take, for instance, the following frank of
Burke in this collection:--

  "Margate July seventeenth, 1791
  "Mr Swift,
  "Mr Burke's Chambers
  "4 Stone Buildings
  "Lincoln's Inn
  "London.

  "Edm. Burke."

These letters have been recently published by Mr. Macknight, who says of them that "they show
how kind and familiar Burke was to the humblest dependants with whom he was thrown into any
human relationship"; they also "show the statesman, when at the height of literary fame, as
busy and anxious in sending his sheets through the press, and making corrections and alterations,
as any young author with his first proofs"; and he adds, "These letters seem to me quite as
important, as illustrations of Burke's private character, as those which he wrote to the Nagles
in former years." It seems that the amanuensis to whom they were addressed had at his death
other similar letters in his possession; but his wife, ignorant of their value, deliberately
committed them to the names, and the four now before us are all that were saved. Mr. Macknight
adds, in a note,--"These letters I owe to the kindness of John Fillingham, Esq., of Hoxton,
who allowed me to inspect and copy the originals."[A]

[Footnote A: Life of Burke, Vol. III. p. 410.]

Of one of these letters there is an accurate fac-simile, which will be found in the third volume
of Mr. Macknight's elaborate biography of Burke.

But the main paper in the collection is none other than the manuscript of the "Observations
on the Conduct of the Minority," being the identical copy from which the surreptitious publication
was made which disturbed the last hours of Burke. The body of it is in the handwriting of the
amanuensis to whom the familiar letters were addressed; but it shows the revision of Burke,
and on several pages most minute and elaborate corrections and additions, with changes of sections.
Of one of these pages there is an accurate fac-simile in the third volume of Mr. Macknight,
who says that "the manuscript was given by Swift's sister, after his death, to the gentleman
who kindly permitted him to inspect it." [A]

[Footnote A: Lifo of Burke, Vol. III. p. 700.]

These manuscripts--both the letters and the Observations--all concern the closing period of
Burke's life, after the unhappy feud between himself and Fox, to which they directly relate.
In order to appreciate their value, we must glance at the scene by which the memorable friendship
of these men was closed.

Few political events in English history are read with more interest than the separation of
Burke and Fox. They had been friends and allies; but the French Revolution, which separated
so many persons in France, reached across the Channel to separate them. They differed so radically
with regard to this portentous, undeveloped movement, that their relations, both political
and personal, were rudely severed. Burke, in the House of Commons, openly announced this result.
He was most earnestly inveighing against France, when he said, "It may be indiscreet in me
at my time of life to provoke enemies, and give occasion to friends to desert me." Fox whispered,
"There is no loss of friends." Burke for a moment paused, and then exclaimed, "Yes, there is
a loss of friends; I know the price of my conduct. I have done my duty at the expense of my
friend. Our friendship is at an end." As he finished, Burke walked across the floor of the
House, and squeezed himself between Pitt and Dundas on the Treasury Bench. Fox rose to reply,
while tears streamed down his face. In the course of his remarks he intimated that Burke had
heaped upon him the most ignominious terms. Burke at once said that he did not recollect having
used any; when Fox replied, "My right honorable friend does not recollect the epithets. They
are out of his mind. Then they are completely and forever out of mine. I cannot cherish a recollection
so painful; and from this moment they are obliterated and forgotten."

But the difference was too intense. A few days later it broke forth again. "I complain," said
Burke, "of being obliged to stand upon my defence by the right honorable gentleman, who, when
a young man, was brought to me and evinced the most promising talents, which I used my best
endeavors to cultivate; and this man, who has arrived at the maturity of being the most brilliant
and powerful debater that ever existed, has described me as having deserted and abandoned every
one of my principles!" Fox replied, but alluded to Burke no longer as "friend", but as "the
right honorable gentleman", and said, in a taunting style, that "all he had to do was to repent,
and his friends would be ready to receive him back and love him as they had previously done".
Burke was indignant. He said,--"I have gone through my youth without encountering any party
disgrace, and though in my age I have been so unfortunate as to meet it, I do not solicit the
right honorable gentleman's friendship, nor that of any other man, either on one side of the
House or the other." [A] This most important and historic friendship was at an end.

[Footnote A:Parliamentary History Vol. XXIX. p. 426.]

The larger part of the Whigs at that time sided with Fox. But Burke turned away from Parliament
and politicians in one of the most masterly productions of his pen, entitled, "An Appeal from
the New to the Old Whigs." One of the autograph-letters in the collection before us, addressed
to the amanuensis, Swift, relates to the last corrections of this tract, and contains the title,
arranged for the printer. It is the letter of which a fac-simile is given by Mr. Macknight.

Meanwhile, the difference between the two statesmen became more fixed and intense. The Whig
Club declared, "that their confidence in Mr. Fox was confirmed, strengthened, and increased
by the calumnies against him." Burke and some forty-five noblemen and gentlemen withdrew from
the club.

This paper presents, in fifty-four articles, duly numbered, objections to the course and policy
of Fox. It was, in brief, an arraignment of that distinguished gentleman. But it was not intended
for publication, at least at that time. Communicated thus in confidence, it might have remained
indefinitely, if not always, unknown to the public, locked in the ducal drawer, if the amanuensis
whom Burke employed in copying it had not betrayed him. This was none other than Swift, to
whom the familiar letters were addressed. Unknown to his employer, he had appropriated to himself
a copy in his own handwriting, with corrections and additions by Burke, which seems to have
come between the original rough draught and the final copy transmitted to the Duke of Portland.
Some time afterwards, while Burke was in his last illness, feeble and failing fast, this faithless
scrivener communicated this copy to an equally faithless publisher, by whom it was advertised
as "Fifty-Four Articles of Impeachment against the Eight Honorable C.J. Fox." When this was
seen by Mrs. Burke, she felt it her duty to keep all newspapers and letters from her husband,
that he might know nothing of the treachery, at least until it was relieved so far as it could
be. Dr. Lawrence and Dr. King, assisted by the affidavit of Mr. Rivington, succeeded in obtaining
an injunction against the publisher on the very day when the tract appeared. But two thousand
copies had already stolen abroad.

It was not until Mrs. Burke, on opening a letter from Dr. Lawrence to her husband, learned
that the injunction had been obtained, that, at two o'clock in the afternoon of the 15th of
February, 1797, she delivered to him his newspapers and correspondence for the past week. He
was less disturbed than had been expected. "This affair does vex me," he said; "but I am not
in a state of health at present to be deeply vexed at anything. Had I intended it for the public,
I should have been more exact and full. Many temperaments and explanations there would have
been, if ever I had had a notion that it should meet the public eye." He was justly indignant
at the knavish publisher, whose conduct surpassed that of the Dublin pirates, or Edmund Curll.
But he was at a loss to know how the publisher obtained a copy. He did not suppose that the
Duke of Portland had given up his, and he remembered only "the rough and incorrect papers"
constituting the first draught, which, it seems, Dr. Lawrence, about a year before, had paid
the false Swift a guinea to deliver back. He had forgotten the intermediate copy made by Swift
and corrected by himself.

This illicit publication, especially under such a title, was calculated to attract attention.
Its author was dying, so that it seemed to be his last words. Pitt read it with delight, and
declared it to be a model in that style of composition. But his latest biographer says of it,
that "it may, perhaps, be regretted that Burke ever wrote the 'Observations on the Conduct
of the Minority.' It is certainly the least pleasing of all his compositions."[A] In style,
it is direct, terse, and compact, beyond any other composition of Burke's. Perhaps, as it was
not intended for the public, he was less tempted to rhetorical indulgence. But the manuscript
now before us exhibits the minute care with which it was executed. Here also may be traced
varieties of expression, constituting the different forms which a thought assumed, not unlike
the various drawings of Raffaelle for the same wonderful picture.

[Footnote A: Macknight, Vol. III. p. 532.]

But we must stop. It is only as a literary curiosity that we are now dealing with this relic.

HARVARD'S HEROES.

The stranger who enters the nave of St. Paul's Cathedral in London cannot fail to notice the
superb pulpit which stands at the angle of the choir. It is composed of rare and costly marbles
and other precious stones. But, beautiful and fitting as it is, its greatest value lies in
the circumstance which placed it there. It is a memorial, the tribute of affection. It was
erected by his surviving comrades in arms to a noble officer of the Indian army. Yet this,
from its position a [Greek: ktêma es aei], is only one among numberless like monuments which
the traveller in England meets at every turn. In public squares, in parish churches, in stately
cathedrals,--wherever the eye of the wayfarer can be arrested, whereever the pride of country
is most deeply stirred, wherever the sentiment of loyalty is consecrated by religion,--the
Englishman loves to guard from oblivion the names of his honored dead. There is in this both
a cause and a consequence of that intense local pride and affection by which the men of Great
Britain are bound to the scenes of their early lives.

"It will never do for us to be beaten," said the Duke at Waterloo; "think what they will say
of us at home!"--and this simple sentence went straight to the heart of every man who heard.
What they will say at home is the prevailing thought in each young soldier's heart as he goes
into his first fight. And "home" does not mean for him so much broad England as it does the
little hamlet where he was born, the school where he was trained, the county in which his forefathers
were honored in times gone by. He thinks of his name, henceforward linked with a glorious victory!
whispered around among the groups who linger in the church-yard after the morning service.
He trusts, that, if he fall nobly, there will be for him the memorial window through whose
blazoned panes the sunlight will fall softly across the "squire's pew," where as a boy he knelt
and worshipped, or touch with a crimson and azure gleam the marble effigies of his knightly
sires recumbent on their tombs. Or he thinks of a place among the lettered names high up on
the old oaken wall of the school-room at Winchester or Harrow or Westminster,--that future
boys, playing where he played, shall talk of him whom they never knew as "one of ours." For
he is well aware that he is making fame not for himself alone, but to be prized where he himself
has been most loved and happiest.

We, in this new land of ours, have but a very faint experience of the intense working of such
influences upon a people in whom the local association and sentiment are ingrained. We are
but just beginning where Englishmen began eight centuries and more ago. Hence our glorifying
of the past has been a little indiscriminate, and withal has sought to commemorate events more
than individuals. But the last two years have taken us through one of those great periods which,
in their concentrated energy, compress the work of years into days, and which mark the water-sheds
of history. The United States of 1865 will be as unlike the same land in 1855 as the youth
is unlike the child. Life is measured by action, not duration. The brilliant epoch of the first
Persian invasion was more to Greece than its slumbering centuries under Turkish rule, and "fifty
years of Europe" more "than a cycle of Cathay." We shall look back upon a past. We shall have
a truly national existence. It will be but natural, as it will be most wise, that we take heed
of those elements which have ever been so potent in strengthening national character. One of
these has been briefly hinted at above. Yet it may be undesirable to perpetuate the memory
of events in which the whole country cannot participate, which will not for the remainder of
this century be thought of by one section without shame and confusion of face, and which will
only tend to keep alive the sad old jealousies and hates. We shall be very loath to place our
monumental columns upon the fields of Antietam and Gettysburg. We should not tolerate them
upon the slopes of Manassas or the bluffs of Edwards' Ferry. When the war is ended, and the
best guardian of our internal commerce is the loyalty of the returning citizens to their old
allegiance, we shall do wisely to level the earthworks of Vicksburg and Port Hudson. In the
city where mob-violence is crushed under the force of armed law, no one cares to keep for a
day the crumbling walls and the shattered barricade, though they may have witnessed heroism
as splendid as Arcola or Wagram, for they witness also to a wickedness and a terror which all
would gladly forget. The only memorial that a wise and high-souled nation can erect after this
war will be the single monument which shall commemorate the hour of peace restored.

But while we are debarred from thus recording upon tablets more lasting than brass the story
of our mournful triumphs over erring brethren, we are doubly bound in gratitude to keep green
the memory of the men who have deserved well of their country in the hour of utmost need. We
ought to do this also in that temper which shall look most singly to the noble end of forming
heroic traditions for the youth of our future land. I know no place where this can be more
fitly carried out than in New-England's foremost university. Coeval with the commonwealth itself,
the starry roll of its heroes links it with all the fortunes of our history. Men who sat in
the Long Parliament, and who may have seen the Battles of Worcester and Dunbar, took their
early degrees upon Harvard's first Commencement-stage. Her sons fought against King Philip,
were colonels and captains in the "old French War," went forth in the days of Wolfe and Amherst,
and exchanged the lexicon for the musket in the eight years' struggle which gave to the Thirteen
Colonies their independence. Alumni still survive who did military duty in the second war with
England. The men of Harvard were with Taylor at Buena Vista, and helped Scott in his victorious
march upon the Aztec capital. Of these the only record is in the annual necrology and the quaint
Latin of the "Triennial."

For the young heroes who dropped the oar and took up the sword, who laid aside the gown for
the sash and shoulder-strap, who, first in the bloodless triumphs of the regatta and in "capital
training" for the great race of life where literary and professional fame are the prizes, went
forth to venture all for honor and country, the Alma Mater surely should have a special commemoration.
For her own sake, because of her high responsibility in the education of "ingenuous youth,"
she can do no less. I will venture to say that not a Harvard man, among all the loyal thousands
of her surviving Alumni, but feels his heart beat quicker as he reads the story of her children
amid their "baptism of fire." There is a notable peculiarity about this the most purely New-England
of our colleges,--the continual recurrence of familiar patronymics. I take up the last semi-annual
catalogue, and there among the five hundred names I can almost make out my own classmates of
twenty years ago. Abbots, Bigelows, Lawrences, Masons, Russells,--they come with every Commencement-season.
Some families have had for every generation in a hundred and fifty years a representative in
her halls. There is a patent of nobility in this, such peerage as a republic can rightly confer,
the coronet which marks the union of birth and worth. We cannot, we, the Alumni, suffer these
our brothers to sleep unhonored. Those who shall come after us, who shall fill our places in
dear Old Harvard, shall occupy our ancient rooms in Hollis and Massachusetts and Stoughton
and Holworthy, have a right not only to count the academic wreaths which have been won in past
days by their namesakes, but also to be taught the inspiring lesson of holy love of country,
of highest courage and truth and soldierly virtue.

And how shall this be done? Let these few remaining lines suggest at least one plan. Harvard's
chief want is a hall for her Alumni, one worthy, in architecture and convenience, of her children's
fame, which Harvard Hall is not. That long, awkward room, very hot and cramped to dine in at
midsummer, hotter and more cramped still for the Class-day dances, is just fit for one purpose,--the
declamation-exercises of the Sophomore year. Let us have a hall fit for Commencements, for
Alumni and Phi-Beta orations, for our annual dinners, worthy of the "Doctor's" poems and the
"General's" speeches, with a wainscot, not of vulgar plaster, but of noble oak, against which
Copley's pictures and Story's busts may properly be placed.

