12. But, on the other side, the divine locutions instruct us without loss of time, and we understand
matters which seem to require a month on our part to arrange.  The understanding itself, and
the soul, stand amazed at some of the things we understand.  So it is; and he who has any experience
of it will see that what I am saying is literally true.  I give God thanks that I have been
able thus to explain it.  I end by saying that, in my opinion, we may hear the locutions that
proceed from the understanding whenever we like, and think that we hear them whenever we pray.
But it is not so with the divine locutions: for many days I may desire to hear them, and I
cannot; and at other times, even when I would not, as I said before, [8] hear them, I must.
It seems to me that any one disposed to deceive people by saying that he heard from God that
which he has invented himself, might as easily say that he heard it with his bodily ears. 
It is most certainly true that I never imagined there was any other way of hearing or understanding
till I had proof of it in myself; and so, as I have said before, [9] it gave me trouble enough.

13. Locutions that come from Satan not only do not leave any good effects behind, but do leave
evil effects.  This has happened to me; but not more than two or three times.  Our Lord warned
me at once that they came from Satan.  Over and above the great aridity which remains in the
soul after these evil locutions, there is also a certain disquiet, such as I have had on many
other occasions, when, by our Lord's permission, I fell into great temptations and travail
of soul in diverse ways; and though I am in trouble often enough, as I shall show hereafter,
[10] yet this disquiet is such that I know not whence it comes; only the soul seems to resist,
is troubled and distressed, without knowing why; for the words of Satan are good, and not evil.
I am thinking whether this may not be so because one spirit is conscious of the presence of
another.

14. The sweetness and joy which Satan gives are, in my opinion, of a very different kind. 
By means of these sweetnesses he may deceive any one who does not, or who never did, taste
of the sweetness of God,--by which I mean a certain sweet, strong, impressive, delightsome,
and calm refreshing.  Those little, fervid bursts of tears, and other slight emotions,--for
at the first breath of persecution these flowers wither,--I do not call devotion, though they
are a good beginning, and are holy impressions; but they are not a test to determine whether
these locutions come from a good or an evil spirit.  It is therefore best for us to proceed
always with great caution; for those persons who have advanced in prayer only so far as this
may most easily fall into delusions, if they have visions or revelations. For myself, I never
had a single vision or revelation till God had led me on to the prayer of union,--unless it
be on that occasion, of which I have spoken before, [11] now many years ago, when I saw our
Lord.  Oh, that His Majesty had been pleased to let me then understand that it was a true vision,
as I have since understood it was! it would have been no slight blessing to me.

15. After these locutions of the evil one, the soul is never gentle, but is, as it were, terrified,
and greatly disgusted.

16. I look upon it as a most certain truth, that the devil will never deceive, and that God
will not suffer him to deceive, the soul which has no confidence whatever in itself; which
is strong in faith, and resolved to undergo a thousand deaths for any one article of the creed;
which in its love of the faith, infused of God once for all,--a faith living and strong,--always
labours, seeking for further light on this side and on that, to mould itself on the teaching
of the Church, as one already deeply grounded in the truth.  No imaginable revelations, not
even if it saw the heavens open, could make that soul swerve in any degree from the doctrine
of the Church.  If, however, it should at any time find itself wavering even in thought on
this point, or stopping to say to itself, If God says this to me, it may be true, as well as
what He said to the Saints--the soul must not be sure of it.  I do not mean that it so believes,
only that Satan has taken the first step towards tempting it; and the giving way to the first
movements of a thought like this is evidently most wrong.  I believe, however, that these first
movements will not take place if the soul is so strong in the matter--as that soul is to whom
our Lord sends these graces--that it seems as if it could crush the evil spirits in defence
of the very least of the truths which the Church holds.

17. If the soul does not discern this great strength in itself, and if the particular devotion
or vision help it not onwards, then it must not look upon it as safe.  For though at first
the soul is conscious of no harm, great harm may by degrees ensue; because, so far as I can
see, and by experience understand, that which purports to come from God is received only in
so far as it corresponds with the sacred writings; but if it varies therefrom ever so little,
I am incomparably more convinced that it comes from Satan than I am now convinced it comes
from God, however deep that conviction may be.  In this case, there is no need to ask for signs,
nor from what spirit it proceeds, because this varying is so clear a sign of the devil's presence,
that if all the world were to assure me that it came from God, I would not believe it.  The
fact is, that all good seems to be lost out of sight, and to have fled from the soul, when
the devil has spoken to it; the soul is thrown into a state of disgust, and is troubled, able
to do no good thing whatever--for if it conceives good desires, they are not strong; its humility
is fictitious, disturbed, and without sweetness.  Any one who has ever tasted of the Spirit
of God will, I think, understand it.

18. Nevertheless, Satan has many devices; and so there is nothing more certain than that it
is safer to be afraid, and always on our guard, under a learned director, from whom nothing
is concealed.  If we do this, no harm can befall us, though much has befallen me through the
excessive fears which possessed some people.  For instance, it happened so once to me, when
many persons in whom I had great confidence, and with good reason, had assembled together,--five
or six in number, I think,--and all very great servants of God.  It is true, my relations were
with one of them only; but by his orders made my state known to the others.  They had many
conferences together about my necessities; for they had great affection for me, and were afraid
I was under a delusion.  I, too, was very much afraid whenever I was not occupied in prayer;
but when I prayed, and our Lord bestowed His graces upon me, I was instantly reassured.  My
confessor told me they were all of opinion that I was deceived by Satan; that I must communicate
less frequently, and contrive to distract myself in such a way as to be less alone.

19. I was in great fear myself, as I have just said, and my disease of the heart [12] contributed
thereto, so that very often I did not dare to remain alone in my cell during the day.  When
I found so many maintain this, and myself unable to believe them, I had at once a most grievous
scruple; for it seemed to me that I had very little humility, especially as they all led lives
incomparably better than mine: they were also learned men. Why should I not believe them? 
I did all I could to believe them.  I reflected on my wicked life, and therefore what they
said to me must be true.

20. In this distress, I quitted the church, [13] and entered an oratory.  I had not been to
Communion for many days, nor had I been alone, which was all my comfort.  I had no one to speak
to, for every one was against me.  Some, I thought, made a mock of me when I spoke to them
of my prayer, as if I were a person under delusions of the imagination; others warned my confessor
to be on his guard against me; and some said it was clear the whole was an operation of Satan.
My confessor, though he agreed with them for the sake of trying me, as I understood afterwards,
always comforted me: and he alone did so.  He told me that, if I did not offend God, my prayer,
even if it was the work of Satan, could do me no harm; that I should be delivered from it.
He bade me pray much to God: he himself, and all his penitents, and many others did so earnestly;
I, too, with all my might, and as many as I knew to be servants of God, prayed that His Majesty
would be pleased to lead me by another way.  This lasted, I think, about two years; and this
was the subject of my continual prayer to our Lord.

21. But there was no comfort for me when I thought of the possibility that Satan could speak
to me so often.  Now that I was never alone for prayer, our Lord made me recollected even during
conversation: He spoke what He pleased,--I could not avoid it; and, though it distressed me,
I was forced to listen.  I was by myself, having no one in whom I could find any comfort; unable
to pray or read, like a person stunned by heavy trials, and by the dread that the evil one
had deluded me; utterly disquieted and wearied, not knowing what would become of me.  I have
been occasionally--yea, very often--in distress, but never before in distress so great.  I
was in this state for four or five hours; there was no comfort for me, either from heaven or
on earth--only our Lord left me to suffer, afraid of a thousand dangers.

22. O my Lord, how true a friend art Thou! how powerful! Thou showest Thy power when Thou wilt;
and Thou dost will it always, if only we will it also.  Let the whole creation praise Thee,
O Thou Lord of the world!  Oh, that a voice might go forth over all the earth, proclaiming
Thy faithfulness to those who love Thee! All things fail; but Thou, Lord of all, never failest!
They who love Thee, oh, how little they have to suffer! oh, how gently, how tenderly, how sweetly
Thou, O my Lord, dealest with them! Oh, that no one had ever been occupied with any other love
than Thine!  It seems as if Thou didst subject those who love Thee to a severe trial: but it
is in order that they may learn, in the depths of that trial, the depths of Thy love.  O my
God, oh, that I had understanding and learning, and a new language, in order to magnify Thy
works, according to the knowledge of them which my soul possesses!  Everything fails me, O
my Lord; but if Thou wilt not abandon me, I will never fail Thee.  Let all the learned rise
up against me,--let the whole creation persecute me,--let the evil spirits torment me,--but
do Thou, O Lord, fail me not; for I know by experience now the blessedness of that deliverance
which Thou dost effect for those who trust only in Thee.  In this distress,--for then I had
never had a single vision,--these Thy words alone were enough to remove it, and give me perfect
peace: "Be not afraid, my daughter: it is I; and I will not abandon thee.  Fear not." [14]

23. It seems to me that, in the state I was in then, many hours would have been necessary to
calm me, and that no one could have done it.  Yet I found myself, through these words alone,
tranquil and strong, courageous and confident, at rest and enlightened; in a moment, my soul
seemed changed, and I felt I could maintain against all the world that my prayer was the work
of God. Oh, how good is God! how good is our Lord, and how powerful! He gives not counsel only,
but relief as well.  His words are deeds. O my God! as He strengthens our faith, love grows.
So it is, in truth; for I used frequently to recollect how our Lord, when the tempest arose,
commanded the winds to be still over the sea. [15] So I said to myself: Who is He, that all
my faculties should thus obey Him?  Who is He, that gives light in such darkness in a moment;
who softens a heart that seemed to be made of stone; who gives the waters of sweet tears, where
for a long time great dryness seems to have prevailed; who inspires these desires; who bestows
this courage?  What have I been thinking of? what am I afraid of? what is it?  I desire to
serve this my Lord; I aim at nothing else but His pleasure; I seek no joy, no rest, no other
good than that of doing His will.  I was so confident that I had no other desire, that I could
safely assert it.

24. Seeing, then, that our Lord is so powerful,--as I see and know He is,--and that the evil
spirits are His slaves, of which there can be no doubt, because it is of faith,--and I a servant
of this our Lord and King,--what harm can Satan do unto me? Why have I not strength enough
to fight against all hell?  I took up the cross in my hand,--I was changed in a moment into
another person, and it seemed as if God had really given me courage enough not to be afraid
of encountering all the evil spirits. It seemed to me that I could, with the cross, easily
defeat them altogether.  So I cried out, Come on, all of you; I am the servant of our Lord:
I should like to see what you can do against me.

25. And certainly they seemed to be afraid of me, for I was left in peace: I feared them so
little, that the terrors, which until now oppressed me, quitted me altogether; and though I
saw them occasionally,--I shall speak of this by and by, [16]--I was never again afraid of
them--on the contrary, they seemed to be afraid of me. [17]  I found myself endowed with a
certain authority over them, given me by the Lord of all, so that I cared no more for them
than for flies.  They seem to be such cowards; for their strength fails them at the sight of
any one who despises them. These enemies have not the courage to assail any but those whom
they see ready to give in to them, or when God permits them to do so, for the greater good
of His servants, whom they may try and torment.

26. May it please His Majesty that we fear Him whom we ought to fear, [18] and understand that
one venial sin can do us more harm than all hell together; for that is the truth.  The evil
spirits keep us in terror, because we expose ourselves to the assaults of terror by our attachments
to honours, possessions, and pleasures. For then the evil spirits, uniting themselves with
us,--we become our own enemies when we love and seek what we ought to hate,--do us great harm.
We ourselves put weapons into their hands, that they may assail us; those very weapons with
which we should defend ourselves.  It is a great pity.  But if, for the love of God, we hated
all this, and embraced the cross, and set about His service in earnest, Satan would fly away
before such realities, as from the plague.  He is the friend of lies, and a lie himself. [19]
He will have nothing to do with those who walk in the truth.  When he sees the understanding
of any one obscured, he simply helps to pluck out his eyes; if he sees any one already blind,
seeking peace in vanities,--for all the things of this world are so utterly vanity, that they
seem to be but the playthings of a child,--he sees at once that such a one is a child; he treats
him as a child, and ventures to wrestle with him--not once, but often.

27. May it please our Lord that I be not one of these; and may His Majesty give me grace to
take that for peace which is really peace, that for honour which is really honour, and that
for delight which is really a delight.  Let me never mistake one thing for another--and then
I snap my fingers at all the devils, for they shall be afraid of me.  I do not understand those
terrors which make us cry out, Satan, Satan! when we may say, God, God! and make Satan tremble.
Do we not know that he cannot stir without the permission of God?  What does it mean?  I am
really much more afraid of those people who have so great a fear of the devil, than I am of
the devil himself.  Satan can do me no harm whatever, but they can trouble me very much, particularly
if they be confessors.  I have spent some years of such great anxiety, that even now I am amazed
that I was able to bear it. Blessed be our Lord, who has so effectually helped me!

1. Philip. a SS. Trinitate, Theolog. Mystic. par. 2, tr. iii. disc. iv. art. v.: "Tres sunt
modi divinae locutionis; completur enim divina locutio vel verbis successivis, vel verbis formalibus,
vel verbis substantialibus.  Completur verbis successivis cum anima in semetipsa multum collecta
quosdam discursus internos de Deo vel de aliis divina format directione; hujusmodi quippe discursus,
quamvis ab ipsa sibi formati, a Deo tamen dirigente procedunt.  Completur verbis formalibus
cum anima vel in se collecta, vel aliis occupata, percipit quaedam verba formaliter ac distincte
divinitus expressa, ad quorum formationem anima passive penitus se habet.  Completur verbis
substantialibus cum anima vel in se collecta, vel etiam distracta, percipit quaedam verba viva
et efficacia, divinitus ad se directa, quae virtutem aut substantialem effectum per ipsa significatum
fortiter ac infallibiliter causant."  See also St. John of the Cross, Ascent of Mount Carmel,
b. ii. ch. xxviii. and the following, p. 188.

2. From 1555 to 1557, when the Saint was advised by St. Francis de Borja to make no further
resistance (Bouix).

3. See ch. xxvii. section 4.

4. Section 4.

5. Section 5.

6. The doctrine here laid down is not that of the second water,--chs. xiv. and xv.,--but that
of the third, ch. xvi. The Saint herself speaks doubtfully; and as she had but little time
for writing, she could not correct nor read again what she had written (De la Fuente).

7. Section 6.

8. Section 2.

9. Ch. vii. section 12.

10. Ch. xxviii. section 6, ch. xxx. section 10.

11. Ch. vii. section 11.

12. Ch. iv. section 6, ch. v. section 14.

13. It was the church of the Jesuits (Bouix).

14. See Inner Fortress, vi. 3, section 5.

15. St. Matt. viii. 26; "Imperavit ventis et mari, et facta est tranquillitas magna."

16. Ch. xxxi. section 2.

17. St. John of the Cross, Spiritual Canticle, st. 24, p. 128, Eng. trans.

18. St. Matt. x. 26, 28; "Ne ergo timueritis eos, . . . sed potius timete Eum."

19. St. John viii. 44: "Mendax est, et pater ejus."

1. I look upon the courage which our Lord has implanted in me against evil spirits as one of
the greatest mercies which He has bestowed upon me; for a cowardly soul, afraid of anything
but sin against God, is a very unseemly thing, when we have on our side the King omnipotent,
our Lord most high, who can do all things, and subjects all things to Himself.  There is nothing
to be afraid of if we walk, as I said before, [1] in the truth, in the sight of His Majesty,
with a pure conscience.  And for this end, as I said in the same place, I would have myself
all fears, that I may not for one instant offend Him who in that instant is able to destroy
us.  If His Majesty is pleased with us, whoever resists us--be he who he may--will be utterly
disappointed.

2. It may be so, you will say; but, then, where is that soul so just as to please Him in everything?--and
that is the reason why we are afraid.  Certainly it is not my soul, which is most wretched,
unprofitable, and full of misery.  God is not like man in His ways; He knows our weakness.
But the soul perceives, by the help of certain great signs, whether it loves God of a truth;
for the love of those souls who have come to this state is not hidden as it was at first, but
is full of high impulses, and of longings for the vision of God, as I shall show hereafter--or
rather, as I have shown already. [2]  Everything wearies, everything distresses, everything
torments the soul, unless it be suffered with God, or for God.  There is no rest which is not
a weariness, because the soul knows itself to be away from its true rest; and so love is made
most manifest, and, as I have just said, impossible to hide.

3. It happened to me, on another occasion to be grievously tried, and much spoken against on
account of a certain affair,--of which I will speak hereafter, [3]--by almost everybody in
the place where I am living, and by the members of my Order.  When I was in this distress,
and afflicted by many occasions of disquiet wherein I was placed, our Lord spoke to me, saying:
"What art thou afraid of? knowest thou not that I am almighty?  I will do what I have promised
thee."  And so, afterwards, was it done. I found myself at once so strong, that I could have
undertaken anything, so it seemed, immediately, even if I had to endure greater trials for
His service, and had to enter on a new state of suffering.  These locutions are so frequent,
that I cannot count them; many of them are reproaches, and He sends them when I fall into imperfections.
They are enough to destroy a soul. They correct me, however; for His Majesty--as I said before
[4]--gives both counsel and relief.  There are others which bring my former sins into remembrance,--particularly
when He is about to bestow upon me some special grace,--in such a way that the soul beholds
itself as being really judged; for those reproaches of God put the truth before it so distinctly,
that it knows not what to do with itself.  Some are warnings against certain dangers to myself
or others; many of them are prophecies of future things, three or four years beforehand; and
all of them have been fulfilled: some of them I could mention.  Here, then, are so many reasons
for believing that they come from God, as make it impossible, I believe, for anybody to mistake
them.

4. The safest course in these things is to declare, without fail, the whole state of the soul,
together with the graces our Lord gives me, to a confessor who is learned, and obey him.  I
do so; and if I did not, I should have no peace.  Nor is it right that we women, who are unlearned,
should have any: there can be no danger in this, but rather great profit.  This is what our
Lord has often commanded me to do, and it is what I have often done. I had a confessor [5]
who mortified me greatly, and now and then distressed me: he tried me heavily, for he disquieted
me exceedingly; and yet he was the one who, I believe, did me the most good.  Though I had
a great affection for him, I was occasionally tempted to leave him; I thought that the pain
he inflicted on me disturbed my prayer.  Whenever I was resolved on leaving him, I used to
feel instantly that I ought not to do so; and one reproach of our Lord would press more heavily
upon me than all that my confessor did.  Now and then, I was worn out--torture on the one hand,
reproaches on the other. I required it all, for my will was but little subdued.  Our Lord said
to me once, that there was no obedience where there was no resolution to suffer; that I was
to think of His sufferings, and then everything would be easy.

5. One of my confessors, to whom I went in the beginning, advised me once, now that my spiritual
state was known to be the work of God, to keep silence, and not speak of these things to any
one, on the ground that it was safer to keep these graces secret. To me, the advice seemed
good, because I felt it so much whenever I had to speak of them to my confessor; [6] I was
also so ashamed of myself, that I felt it more keenly at times to speak of them than I should
have done in confessing grave sins, particularly when the graces I had to reveal were great.
I thought they did not believe me, and that they were laughing at me.  I felt it so much,--for
I look on this as an irreverent treatment of the marvels of God,--that I was glad to be silent.
I learned then that I had been ill-advised by that confessor, because I ought never to hide
anything from my confessor; for I should find great security if I told everything; and if I
did otherwise, I might at any time fall into delusions. [7]

6. Whenever our Lord commanded me to do one thing in prayer, and if my confessor forbade it,
our Lord Himself told me to obey my confessor.  His Majesty afterwards would change the mind
of that confessor, so that he would have me do what he had forbidden before.  When we were
deprived of many books written in Spanish, and forbidden to read them,--I felt it deeply, for
some of these books were a great comfort to me, and I could not read them in Latin,--our Lord
said to me, "Be not troubled; I will give thee a living book."  I could not understand why
this was said to me, for at that time I had never had a vision. [8]  But, a very few days afterwards,
I understood it well enough; for I had so much to think of, and such reasons for self-recollection
in what I saw before me and our Lord dealt so lovingly with me, in teaching me in so many ways,
that I had little or no need whatever of books. His Majesty has been to me a veritable Book,
in which I saw all truth.  Blessed be such a Book, which leaves behind an impression of what
is read therein, and in such a way that it cannot be forgotten!

7. Who can look upon our Lord, covered with wounds, and bowed down under persecutions, without
accepting, loving, and longing for them?  Who can behold but a part of that glory which He
will give to those who serve Him without confessing that all he may do, and all he may suffer,
are altogether as nothing, when we may hope for such a reward?  Who can look at the torments
of lost souls without acknowledging the torments of this life to be joyous delights in comparison,
and confessing how much they owe to our Lord in having saved them so often from the place of
torments? [9]  But as, by the help of God, I shall speak more at large of certain things, I
wish now to go on with the story of my life.  Our Lord grant that I have been clear enough
in what I have hitherto said!  I feel assured that he will understand me who has had experience
herein, and that he will see I have partially succeeded; but as to him who has had no such
experience, I should not be surprised if he regarded it all as folly.  It is enough for him
that it is I who say it, in order to be free from blame; neither will I blame any one who shall
so speak of it.  Our Lord grant that I may never fail to do His will!  Amen.

1. Ch. xxv. section 26.

2. Ch. xv. section 6.

3. Ch. xxxiii.; the foundation of the house of St. Joseph.

4. Ch. xxv. section 23.

5. The Bollandists, n. 185, attribute some of the severity with which her confessor treated
the Saint to the spirit of desolation with which he was then tried himself; and, in proof of
it, refer to the account which F. Baltasar Alvarez gave of his own prayer to the General of
the Society.

6. See Relation, vii. section 7.

7. St. John of the Cross, Mount Carmel, bk. ii. ch. 22, section 14.

8. The visions of the Saint began in 1558 (De la Fuente) or, according to Father Bouix, in 1559.

9. St. Luke xvi. 28: "Ne et ipsi veniant in hunc locum tormentorum."

Chapter XXVII.

The Saint Prays to Be Directed by a Different Way. Intellectual Visions.

1. I now resume the story of my life.  I was in great pain and distress; and many prayers,
as I said, [1] were made on my behalf, that our Lord would lead me by another and a safer way;
for this, they told me, was so suspicious.  The truth is, that though I was praying to God
for this, and wished I had a desire for another way, yet, when I saw the progress I was making,
I was unable really to desire a change,--though I always prayed for it,--excepting on those
occasions when I was extremely cast down by what people said to me, and by the fears with which
they filled me.

2. I felt that I was wholly changed; I could do nothing but put myself in the hands of God:
He knew what was expedient for me; let Him do with me according to His will in all things.
I saw that by this way I was directed heavenwards, and that formerly I was going down to hell.
I could not force myself to desire a change, nor believe that I was under the influence of
Satan. Though I was doing all I could to believe the one and to desire the other, it was not
in my power to do so.  I offered up all my actions, if there should be any good in them, for
this end; I had recourse to the Saints for whom I had a devotion, that they might deliver me
from the evil one; I made novenas; I commended myself to St. Hilarion, to the Angel St. Michael,
to whom I had recently become devout, for this purpose; and many other Saints I importuned,
that our Lord might show me the way,--I mean, that they might obtain this for me from His Majesty.

3. At the end of two years spent in prayer by myself and others for this end, namely, that
our Lord would either lead me by another way, or show the truth of this,--for now the locutions
of our Lord were extremely frequent,--this happened to me.  I was in prayer one day,--it was
the feast of the glorious St. Peter, [2]--when I saw Christ close by me, or, to speak more
correctly, felt Him; for I saw nothing with the eyes of the body, nothing with the eyes of
the soul.  He seemed to me to be close beside me; and I saw, too, as I believe, that it was
He who was speaking to me. As I was utterly ignorant that such a vision was possible, [3] I
was extremely afraid at first, and did nothing but weep; however, when He spoke to me but one
word to reassure me, I recovered myself, and was, as usual, calm and comforted, without any
fear whatever.  Jesus Christ seemed to be by my side continually, and, as the vision was not
imaginary, I saw no form; but I had a most distinct feeling that He was always on my right
hand, a witness of all I did; and never at any time, if I was but slightly recollected, or
not too much distracted, could I be ignorant of His near presence. [4]

4. I went at once to my confessor, [5] in great distress, to tell him of it.  He asked in what
form I saw our Lord.  I told him I saw no form.  He then said: "How did you know that it was
Christ?"  I replied, that I did not know how I knew it; but I could not help knowing that He
was close beside me,--that I saw Him distinctly, and felt His presence,--that the recollectedness
of my soul was deeper in the prayer of quiet, and more continuous,--that the effects thereof
were very different from what I had hitherto experienced,--and that it was most certain. I
could only make comparisons in order to explain myself; and certainly there are no comparisons,
in my opinion, by which visions of this kind can be described.  Afterwards I learnt from Friar
Peter of Alcantara, a holy man of great spirituality,--of whom I shall speak by and by, [6]--and
from others of great learning, that this vision was of the highest order, and one with which
Satan can least interfere; and therefore there are no words whereby to explain,--at least,
none for us women, who know so little: learned men can explain it better.

5. For if I say that I see Him neither with the eyes of the body, nor with those of the soul,--because
it was not an imaginary vision,--how is it that I can understand and maintain that He stands
beside me, and be more certain of it than if I saw Him? If it be supposed that it is as if
a person were blind, or in the dark, and therefore unable to see another who is close to him,
the comparison is not exact.  There is a certain likelihood about it, however, but not much,
because the other senses tell him who is blind of that presence: he hears the other speak or
move, or he touches him; but in these visions there is nothing like this. The darkness is not
felt; only He renders Himself present to the soul by a certain knowledge of Himself which is
more clear than the sun. [7]  I do not mean that we now see either a sun or any brightness,
only that there is a light not seen, which illumines the understanding so that the soul may
have the fruition of so great a good.  This vision brings with it great blessings.

6. It is not like that presence of God which is frequently felt, particularly by those who
have attained to the prayer of union and of quiet, when we seem, at the very commencement of
our prayer, to find Him with whom we would converse, and when we seem to feel that He hears
us by the effects and the spiritual impressions of great love and faith of which we are then
conscious, as well as by the good resolutions, accompanied by sweetness, which we then make.
This is a great grace from God; and let him to whom He has given it esteem it much, because
it is a very high degree of prayer; but it is not vision.  God is understood to be present
there by the effects He works in the soul: that is the way His Majesty makes His presence felt;
but here, in this vision, it is seen clearly that Jesus Christ is present, the Son of the Virgin.
In the prayer of union and of quiet, certain inflowings of the Godhead are present; but in
the vision, the Sacred Humanity also, together with them, is pleased to be our visible companion,
and to do us good.

7. My confessor next asked me, who told me it was Jesus Christ. [8]  I replied that He often
told me so Himself; but, even before He told me so, there was an impression on my understanding
that it was He; and before this He used to tell me so, and I saw Him not.  If a person whom
I had never seen, but of whom I had heard, came to speak to me, and I were blind or in the
dark, and told me who he was, I should believe him; but I could not so confidently affirm that
he was that person, as I might do if I had seen him.  But in this vision I could do so, because
so clear a knowledge is impressed on the soul that all doubt seems impossible, though He is
not seen.  Our Lord wills that this knowledge be so graven on the understanding, that we can
no more question His presence than we can question that which we see with our eyes: not so
much even; for very often there arises a suspicion that we have imagined things we think we
see; but here, though there may be a suspicion in the first instant, there remains a certainty
so great, that the doubt has no force whatever.  So also is it when God teaches the soul in
another way, and speaks to it without speaking, in the way I have described.

