Wednesday.--Speaking as an opera-goer of some thirty years' sitting, I am inclined to assert
that the performance last Wednesday of Les Huguenots beats the record, as will be allowed by
all whose memory runneth not to the contrary, "nevertheless" and "notwithstanding" being included.
Except MARIO, as Raoul, and some add, except DORUS GRAS as the Queen, never was seen and heard
so fine a performance as is this to-night; and this deponent witnesseth that no such ensemble
has ever been seen for this really grand Opera. Strange to hear sweet little Manon one night,
and the next these overpowering Huguenots. It is well worth the while, in Mr. Punch's pages,
to record this exceptionally brilliant cast. First, Madame ALBANI for the heroine Valentina,
superb alike in singing and in acting; GIULIA RAVOGLI as Urbano, the page, a memorable page
in operatic history; Conte di San Bris, by M. LASSALLE, not to be bettered, as may be also
said of Signor MIRANDA (by kind permission of SHAKSPEARE's Tempest, probably a descendant)
as De Retz, afterwards converted, and appearing as Il Padre Basso, Superior of a Theatrical
Order, one of the exceptional Orders admitted after seven. Then M. MAUREL, with his highly
Maurel tone, cannot be beaten as the high-minded Conte de Nevers; and EDOUARD DE RESZKÉ, taken
altogether--and there's a lot of him--is quite the best Marcello that has been heard and seen
for some considerable time. Herr FORMES and MABINI were the rugged Huguenot soldier to the
life, but they weren't the Harmonious Blacksmith that NED DE RESZKÉ is. JEAN DE RESZKÉ methinks
lacketh impassioned tenderness in the great duet scene, where ALBANI is inimitable; otherwise
JEAN is a gallant Raoul. Ensemble as already said, which term includes chorus, mise-en-scène,
and orchestra under the energetic rule of Signor BEVIGNANI, simply perfect. Those who this
season miss seeing Les Huguenots with this unexampled cast, will be justly upbraided by their
children and grandchildren. Mr. COVENT-GARDENIA HALL with the Gladstone flower in his button-hole,
almost weeps to think that his much-loved leader is unable to come from Dollis Hill and bestow
his liberal praise upon Les Huguenots. DRURIOLANUS may well beam upon the crammed house, viewing
a portion of it with his nose over the ledge of the stall gangway portal; well may he smile,
hum the melodies to himself (what better audience can he have for the performance!) expand
in full bloom and speak joyously out of the very fulness of his heart and pocket; nay, for
the moment he may even look upon the sheriffship and all its glory as a mere vanity of vanities,
in comparison with the proud position of being DRURIOLANUS OPERATICUS MAGNIFICISSIMUS, who
has given opera-goers this new and rare edition of Les Huguenots. The gloved hand and the lorgnette
of H.R.H. are visible in the omnibus-box, where our music-loving Prince is happily congratulating
himself on another little FIFE being added to the harmonious Royal Band, while the loyal public
is mightily pleased thus to have it proved to ocular demonstration, that the subtle villain,
Influenza, has been baulked in his traitorous attempt on the Royal Personage, and they sincerely
hope that the insidious poisoner, being thus arrested in his course, may, with all his treacherous
bacilli, be for ever banished this happy and generally healthy realm.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPETITION IN THE FUTURE.

    SCENE--A Barrack-Room. PRESENT--President and Members of a
    Board of Examiners, sitting to pass Candidates for Commissions
    in the Line.

President. Now, Gentlemen, I think we are agreed that cramming is to be discouraged. We want
an officer who can command a company, and not a scholar who can floor a paper for high-class
honours--that is the general idea, Gentlemen, isn't it?

Chorus of Members. Quite so.

Pres. Exactly. Orderly, pass the word that we will see Mr. MUGGER. (The word is passed, when
enter First Candidate.) Glad to see you, Sir. Pray sit down. I think you were at school?

First Candidate (nervously). Yes, Sir, at Eton.

Pres. Humph! (Aside, to his Colleagues.) Rather an unpromising commencement. However, he may
have devoted more of his time to cricket or football in the Playing Fields than to anything
else. (Aloud.) I hope you have not been to the University?

First Can. (almost moved to tears). Alas, Gentlemen, my father would send me to Christchurch,
and I am sorry to say I took a Double First!

Pres. (courteous, but sad). I am afraid that will do. (Exit First Candidate, striving in vain
to suppress a burst of unmanly emotion.) I am deeply grieved, Gentlemen, but I fear that we
can do nothing further in this matter?

Chorus of Members. Utterly impossible!

Pres. Exactly. Orderly, call Mr. SHIRKWORKS. (Second Candidate enters.) Glad to see you, Sir.
Pray sit down. I think you were at school?

Second Can. (with confidence). Never, Sir, and allow me to add that I can scarcely read, don't
know how to spell, and have a firm impression that two and two make either three or five--I
forget which.

Pres. (beaming). Excellent! (After a brief consultation with his colleagues.) Mr. SHIRKWORKS,
I have much pleasure in informing you that we shall be glad to recommend you for a Commission.
(Curtain.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CODLINGSBY JUNIOR;

OR, A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK.

BEING FRAGMENTS OF A FORTHCOMING POLITICAL PRIZE NOVEL.

    [In a letter to The Times on "Party Organisation," Mr.
    CONINGSBY DISRAELI vigorously rallies the Tory Party on
    their "eternal and infernal apathy." He says, "Since we have
    borrowed some Liberal principles, let us borrow some Liberal
    tactics, and introduce what I would call the Schnadhorstian
    methods into our councils of war. They, at least, have the
    merit of success."]

       *       *       *       *       *

It was CODLINGSBY JUNIOR, who saved the Vraibleusian Party after the battle of Bahborough.
By sending a stern and staccato epistle to the "Jupiter Tonans"; by praising (and imitating)
Colonel DE CAUCUSINE, the real inspiring spirit in the camp of the victorious GRANDOLMAN, the
march of the Hubbabub army was stopped--the menaced empire of Vraibleusia was saved from the
flowing tide of Radical ruin; the Marquis of STROKEFOGIES appeared in a blaze of triumph that
outblazed even the Berlin "Peace with Honour" business, and CODLINGSBY JUNIOR "took the cake."

       *       *       *       *       *

The dinner over, the young men rushed from their Club (White's), flushed, full fed, and eager
for battle. If the Blues were angry, the Buffs were also on the alert.

"I can have a dinner at any hour," said CODLINGSBY JUNIOR; "but a Blue and Buff row"--(a shillelagh
here flying through the window crashed "the cake" from CODLINGSBY's hand)--"a Blue and Buff
row is a novelty to me. The Buffs have the best of it, clearly, though; the Cads outnumber
the Swells. Ha! a good blow! How that burly Caucusite went down before yonder slim young fellow
in the primrose pants!"

"That is the Lord TIDDLEMPOPS," said a companion. "A light weight, but a pretty fighter," CODLINGSBY
remarked. "Well hit with your left, Lord TIDDLEMPOPS; well parried, Lord TIDDLEMPOPS; claret
drawn, by Jingo!"

"He never can be going to match himself against that Wirepuller!" CODLINGSBY exclaimed, as
an enormous Caucusite--no other than SCHNADDY, indeed, the famous ex-Brummagem bruiser, before
whose fists the Blues went down like ninepins--fought his way up to the spot where, pluckily,
but a little too negligently, TIDDLEMPOPS and one or two of his young friends were bringing
aristocratic laissez faire to bear against the fortiter in re of the fighting Caucusite Cads.

The young noble faced the huge champion with the languid gallantry of his race, but was no
match for the enemy's brawn and biceps, and went down in every round. His organisation, in
fact, though fine, was not sufficiently firm and well-knit to face the sinewy and skilful SCHNADDY.
The brutal fellow, who meant business, had no mercy on the lad, who meant larks. His savage
treatment chafed CODLINGSBY JUNIOR, as he viewed the unequal combat from White's window.

"Hold your hand!" he cried to the Goliath. "Don't you see he's but a novice?"

"Down he goes again!" the wiry Wirepuller cried, not heeding the interruption. "Down he goes
again! I like whopping a swell!"

"Coward!" shouted CODLINGSBY. "The sight makes me feel quite Dizzy. A CODLINGSBY to the rescue!"
and to fling open the window, amidst a shower of malodorous missiles, to vault over the balcony,
and slide down one of the pillars to the ground, baring his steely biceps in the process, and
shying the "castor" from his curly looks with all the virile grace of the Great Earl, was the
work of exactly five-sixths of a second.

At the sixth-sixth he stood before the enormous Wirepuller.

"SCHNADDY, my boy," he exclaimed, "I'm going to fight you with your own weapon--and wallop
you. Look to yourself, churl Caucusite!"

"DIZZY's Double, by all that's theosophical!" faltered SCHNADDY, shrinking at once to half
his previous size, under the influence of the startling sight, and the yet more startling "spank"
from young DIZZY's dexter bunch-of-fives.

       *       *       *       *       *

When SCHNADDY, after six weeks' bed and bandaging, at last came out of hospital, his occupation
as Wirepuller was gone. CODLINGSBY JUNIOR had stepped into his shoes, and the late "Organiser
of Victory" and his Party had not "the least little bit of a look in."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Baron's Assistant Reader has been dipping into Robert Browning--Essays and Thoughts, by
JOHN T. NETTLESHIP. (ELKIN MATHEWS, Vigo Street.) He advises all other readers to grasp his
nettleship boldly. At last the Baron's A.R. thinks he understands "Childe Roland," after reading
the twenty-five pages which Mr. NETTLESHIP devotes to the explanation of this noble but tantalising
poem. Mr. NETTLESHIP's attitude is that of a fervent, but humble disciple, for whom his Master's
every word possesses deep and subtle meanings. He believes with GEORGE ELIOT that "the words
of genius bear a wider meaning than the thought which prompted them." That of course gives
him unlimited scope, and sometimes makes the explanations long; but every lover of BROWNING
will find in the book a great deal of sound and helpful criticism well expressed. Buy the book
and see for yourself, says the Baron's A.R.

Fascinating is OSCAR WILDE's paper "On the Decay of Lying," which is the first essay in a book
of his entitled Intentions. If it be true that the art of lying is decaying--but, stay! how
can anyone take the word of a professor of the art of lying for this or any other fact? No,
his motto must be, "See me reverse." Not that by suggesting this motto I would for a moment
be understood as expressing a wish for OSCAR's once again dropping into poetry--that OSCAR
should once again take to the other sort of Lyre; far from it. No; let him remain the head
professor of the gay science of mendacity in the Cretan College. Now, when a Professor and
double M.A., i.e., Master of the Mendacious Art in the Cretan College, says or writes one thing,
he must be taken as meaning exactly the opposite. Otherwise he is no Cretan, and must be degraded
from his Professorship. Bearing this in mind, the essay is, as I have said, in matter most
amusing, and in style charming. Remember, my reader, that whosoever and whatsoever is blamed,
abused, or flouted in this essay, is really being praised, lauded, and adulated to the skies
by the Cretan critic. But when the M.M.A. writes on other subjects, are we to trust him? there's
the difficulty. So after the first essay, which is hereby recommended by the Faculty, the Baron
puts the book aside. "Caute legendum," says

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OLD-FASHIONED BUFFER ON BALFOUR'S BILL.

  State-aided purchase? That sounds mighty well
  I look on it as a State-aided Sell!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"GENERAL ELECTION STAKES."

A COLLOQUY ON THE COURSE.

  Mr. Punch. Your Stable, no doubt, has of late been a winning one;
        Horses and Jockeys have both done their best.
  Trainer. Yes; Guv'nor's black phiz--bless his heart!--is a grinning one;
        All our nags answer when put to the test.
  Mr. Punch. All? That's a bit of a stretch, my dear fellow.
        Wheel Tax went wrong. Compensation came down.
      Hasn't MATT's riding at times turned you yellow,
        And RAIKES's wild steering almost done you brown?
  Trainer. Maybe, Sir, maybe! We can't always spot 'em,
        But average winnings come out very well.
      On this next race, now, I fancy we've got 'em,
        Ah, fairly on toast, far as I can hear tell.
  Mr. Punch. The Sanguine Old Man--is he of your opinion?
        And SOLLY, the owner, is he at his ease?
  Trainer. Oh, dash the doldrums! I scorn their dominion.
        There are some people no fellow can please.
      What I say, Mister, is, look at their Stable,
        The old Opposition shop. Lot of old crocks!
      Flowing-Tide? Faugh! Half his doings are fable.
        Home Rule? The deadest of utter dead-locks!
      Socialist? Why, half the Party won't back him.
        Eight Hour? A roarer, all noise and no pace!
      Eh? Local Option? Won't win; though they whack him!
        What have they got, that can score the Big Race?
  Mr. Punch. Well, I must own they do seem a bit out of it.
      Still, the Big Race for surprises is famed.
  Trainer. Bah! It's a moral for us, not a doubt of it.
      Horse that can lick us is not foaled or named.
  Mr. Punch. Glad you're so cock-sure, dear JOKIM. Still lately
      They've scored some small handicaps, that you'll allow.
  Trainer. Oh! Harborough Stakes! Well, that don't scare me greatly,
      Mere fluke after all, though they raised a big row.
  Mr. Punch. It's mostly "a fluke" when opponents go by us;
      But flukes, you know, count, at the end of the game.
  Trainer. Well, look at the betting! Although they decry us,
        They'd like to have money on us all the same.
      Their best horse is "aged," their best jockey oldish,
        He's plucky, but years, Sir, will tell on the nerve.
      Some of 'em who've backed him the longest grow coldish,
        Whilst others do hint that he seems on the swerve.
      The lot who are sweet on that leggy colt, Labour,
        Would like a new "mount," if they dared to speak out.
      There isn't a man of 'em quite trusts his neighbour,
        Home Rule with BILL up! That inspires 'em with doubt!
      (Ask H-RC-RT or R-S-B-RY--on the Q.T., Sir.)
        The Old Jock is obstinate, new 'uns can't ride.
      Funk M-RL-Y, or L-BBY and that lot! Not me, Sir!
        I tell you the chances are all on our side.
  Mr. Punch. Well, luck goes with them who're not shirkers or shrinkers.
        Ah! here comes your crack--rather restive, I fear.
      By Jove, are you going to run him in blinkers?
        And who's your new Jock? His seat seems a bit queer.
  Trainer. Well, Sir, don't you see, it's just this way. He's borrowed,
        That Jock is; a wonderful pet of Brum JOE's
      Must work with his Party; some of us have sorrowed
        To make such close pals of such reglar old foes;
      The horse don't half like him, I'm bound to admit it,
        Between you and me I don't like it myself,
      For me and dear JOSEPH have not always hit it.
        But then, he stands in; we must look to the pelf;
      Can't afford to offend him, our Stable can't--blow it!
        Eh! What? You have heard me disparage Boy Bill
      As too Free in his ways by long chalks. Well, I know it;
        But JOE is dead nuts on his go and his skill--
      The Blinkers? Oh yes! Horse not used to him yet, Sir,
        And if he should spot him, might throw the young pup--
      We must "go it blind," only square chance, you bet, Sir,
        Of winning,--espesh'lly with JOE's jockey up!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SALISBURY'S VERSION.

(SEE THE PREMIER'S SPEECH AT GLASGOW.)

               War is a game
  Which, if Kings have their will,
     Peoples won't play at.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FRENCH AS SHE IS SPOKE."--The indefatigable international entrepreneur, Mr. M.L. MAYER,--who
announces himself as "Sole Manager," evidently, therefore, a fishmonger, and, according to
Hamlet, a representatively "honest man,"--intends to save Londoners the trouble and expense
of visiting Paris by giving them three weeks, from June 15th to July 4th, of French plays,
performed by the Théâtre Français Company, including Mesdames REICHENBERG and DUDLEY, three
COQUELINS, one FEBVRE, and one MOUNET SULLY, at the Royalty Theatre. Those whose hobby is the
French Theatre, will be delighted to assist at the start of the well-trained MAYER, who has
achieved the curious feat of "saddling himself" with this responsibility.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENTARY DIAGNOSIS.--"Inflammation"--of temper--is the preliminary of "Congestion"--of
business, and these threaten to culminate in "Collapse"--of credit.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

May 13th.--Expenses keep mounting up. On Saturday received a letter from BLISSOP (Secretary
of the Association), stating that it was deemed necessary to take a new Committee-room in Main
Street, and asking me if they might draw on me for the cost of furnishing it, a matter of about
£15. Replied that I must take time to consider whether such expenditure was proper. Three more
charitable institutions claim me as an annual subscriber, and the Billsbury Free Hospital Committee
have informed me that CHUBSON always gives them £10 a year. Have had to do ditto.

May 14th.--Had an extraordinary letter from VULLIAMY this morning. He is staying at Billsbury--but
the letter explains itself. Here it is:--

    MY DEAR PATTLE, (Confidential.)

    I am asked to let you know that a Committee Meeting has been
    called for Friday 16th, and it is hoped that, at all costs,
    you will make it convenient to attend. You know how great
    an interest I have always taken in your career. I have
    always told you that any experience I may have gained in
    electioneering matters (and I have been at it for about twenty
    years now) is entirely at your service. You will therefore
    forgive me if I speak quite frankly to you on some questions
    which intimately concern your Candidature. I don't meet you as
    often as I should wish, and I am therefore impelled to write
    to you on matters which require your serious consideration,
    and on which you ought to be prepared to make a definite
    statement on Friday next. I have used the opportunity of my
    stay here to see how the land lay with regard to you. Hitherto
    you have done very well, but mere public meetings will not
    win an election, and you must make up your mind ere very long
    to come and stay here, so as to canvass each ward, under the
    guidance of the proper "officers."

    Then there is the question of money! The Registration must
    he paid for by the Candidate. It will be heavy this year. You
    can talk it over with the Committee, but certainly £100 to
    £150 will be absolutely necessary. Whatever the sum is, you
    must be prepared to pay it. I trust you will excuse my being
    candid with you, both for your own sake and the Party's. If
    £200 or £300 more or less is any object to you, and if you
    (or your friends) are not prepared to do certain things,
    such as bringing up voters, &c., it is useless your hoping
    to win. I don't suggest bribery and corruption, but certain
    things not immoral, though perhaps illegal, must be done. That
    is why I once suggested to you that someone from here should
    have an interview with some friend who might represent you.
    You did not respond to this. You do not appear willing to be
    guided by your Committee even in the expenditure of £15 for
    chairs and tables for your new Committee-room; and I must
    repeat that such excessive caution will not be followed by
    success. You will only waste your time, and the Party here
    will be defeated. If you do not feel willing to be guided by
    the old Leaders of the Party here, who know what is needed,
    far better reconsider your position, and resign while there
    is yet time.

    Now, in addition to your legal election expenses (between
    £500 and £600), there will be the Registration which, however,
    is a permissible payment. But, above all, railway fares,
    conveyances, and sundry other expenses which are forbidden by
    the Act, must be met by your friends, or success is hopeless.
    Young HARRISON is standing at Chursfield. His father intends
    him to win, and he will see to the needful!! That is the way
    to work it, and to win. You must be prepared to pay at least
    £150 (or to get someone to pay it for you) for sundries.
    Even thus your expenditure will not reach £1000; dirt cheap
    for a safe borough. Formerly a borough contest used to mean
    £3,000, and a county anything up to £50,000!

    I know you will believe me when I say that I have written
    entirely in your own interest. Yours sincerely,

    HENRY PARKINSON VULLIAMY.

What an old rascal! I answered very shortly, merely stating my intention of coming to Billsbury
on the 16th, in order to interview the Committee. I must nip all this in the bud, or chuck
the whole business.

Friday, May 16th, "George Hotel," Billsbury.--Came down to Billsbury this afternoon. Had interview
with a delegation from the Committee in the Hotel. MOFFAT, BLISSOP, and JERRAM were there.
They laid their views before me. Much the same as VULLIAMY's letter. "Shame to wreck the ship
for want of a ha'porth of tar," said BLISSOP. "Gentlemen," I said, "if you think I'm going
to handle any of this tar, or do any dirty work, you are mistaken. I am willing to help in
the Registration and to pay proper subscriptions, but I won't budge a step outside the Corrupt
Practices Act, so far as my election expenses are concerned. If you want someone who will make
illegal payments, go somewhere else. I'm quite willing to resign. Now you know my opinion,
and I leave you to confer with your colleagues." With that I left them. Met them again two
hours later. All three looking thoroughly ashamed of themselves. Said they had reconsidered
the matter, and begged me to think no more about it. They were determined, they said, to use
only legal means in fighting the election. So that blew over. Afterwards each of them came
to me in private, to beg my pardon, and put the fault on the others. MOFFAT said it was BLISSOP,
BLISSOP declared it was JERRAM, and JERRAM swore that such a thing would never have entered
his mind if MOFFAT hadn't insisted on it.

