Wherever Mademoiselle Mars has acted, in every part of France, the enthusiasm which she inspires,
and the astonishing interest which they take in her acting, is such as could be felt only in
France. We were fortunately in Lyons when she came there, on leaving Paris during the course
of last summer; and during the few days we were there, nothing appeared to be thought of but
the merits of this unrivalled actress. The interest which the recent visit of Madame had created,
was altogether lost in the delight which the performance of Mademoiselle Mars had occasioned:
She was crowned publicly in the theatre with a garland of flowers, and a fete was celebrated
in honour of her by the public bodies and authorities of the town.

* * *

Corresponding to the Opera House in London, there are three theatres in Paris; the Odeon, the
Opera Comique, and the Academie de Musique. At the first of these there is an immense company
of musicians, of all kinds; and Italian Operas are admirably performed. It is the handsomest,
and perhaps the most genteelly attended of any of the Parisian theatres. The music here, as
well as the musicians, are all Italian; and there can certainly be no comparison between it
and the French, which is generally feeble and insipid in pathetic expression, and extravagant
and bombastic in all attempts at grandeur. The first singer at the Odeon was Madame Sessi,
who has since been in London; but Madame Morelli, with a voice somewhat inferior in power,
appeared to us a more elegant actress. The performance of Girard on the flute was wonderful,
and met with extravagant applause, but it was somewhat too laboured and artificial for our
untutored ears:

The Opera Comique is confined almost exclusively to the sort of entertainment which the name
expresses: the scenes are generally laid in the country, and the characters introduced are
of the lower orders: the pieces commonly represented belong to the same class, therefore, as
the English operas, Love in a Village, Rosina, &c. but the dialogue is in general more animated,
less vulgar in the lower parts, and less sentimental in the higher. The number of performers
at this theatre is not very great; but there are some good singers and dancers, and the acting
is almost uniformly excellent. Indeed, the French character is peculiarly well fitted for assuming
the gay and lively tone that pervades their opera buffa, which may be characterised as amusing
and interesting in general, rather than comic; as full of spirit and vivacity, rather than
of humour. Occasionally, however, characters and incidents of true humour are introduced; but
these are in general considered as belonging to a lower species of amusement; and are to be
found in higher perfection, we believe, in some of the inferior theatres, particularly the
Theatre des Varietés.

The acting at the Opera Comique appeared to us deserving of the same encomiums with the comic
acting at the Theatre Français: every part is well supported, not with the elegance that characterises
the latter theatre, but with perfect adaptation to the situation of the characters. A Mademoiselle
Regnaud, of this theatre, acts with admirable liveliness and spirit. Her quarrel and reconciliation
with her lover, in "Le Nouveau Seigneur du Village," appeared to us a chef d'œuvre of the light
and pleasing style of acting, which suits the character of the French comic opera.

The Academie de Musique, (which is celebrated for dancers, not for musicians), is on a very
different plan from the opera in London. The performers being in part supported by government,
the prices of admission are made very low; and the company, particularly in the parterre, or
pit, is therefore of a much lower class than in London, though perfect decorum is, as usual,
uniformly observed. The performances at this theatre are, we think, decidedly superior to those
in the London opera. This superiority consists partly in the pre-eminent merits of the first-rate
dancers; but chiefly in the uniform excellence of the vast number of inferior performers, the
beauty of the scenery, and the complete knowledge of stage effect, which is displayed in all
the arrangements of the representations.

We believe there are not at present, on the London stage, any dancers of equal merit with Madame
Gardel, or Mademoiselle Bigottini. The former of these is said to be 45 years of age, and has
long been reckoned the best figuranté on this stage. Her face is not handsome, but her figure
is admirably formed for the display of her art, of which she is probably the most perfect mistress
to be found in Europe. The latter, an Italian by birth, is much younger, and if she does not
yet quite equal her rival in artificial accomplishments, she at least attracts more admirers
by her youth and beauty; by the exquisite symmetry of her form, and the natural grace and elegance
of her movements. The one of these is certainly the first dancer, and the other is perhaps
the most beautiful woman in Paris.

But the same unfortunate peculiarity of taste which we formerly noticed in the painting and
in the gardening of the French, extends to their opera dancing; indeed it may be said to be
the worst feature of their general taste. They are too fond of the exhibition of art, and too
regardless of the object, to which art should be made subservient. Dancing should never be
considered as a mere display of agility and muscular power. It is then degraded to a level
with Harlequin's tricks, wrestling, tumbling, or such other fashionable entertainments. The
main object of the art unquestionably is, to display in full perfection the beauty and grace
of the human form and movements. In so far as perfect command of the limbs is necessary, or
may be made subservient to this object, it cannot be too much esteemed; but when you pass this
limit, it not only ceases to be pleasing, but often becomes positively offensive. Many of the
pirouettes, and other difficult movements, which are introduced into the pas seuls, pas de
deux, &c. in which the great dancers display their whole powers, however wonderful as specimens
of art, are certainly any thing but elegant or graceful. The applause in the French opera seemed
to us to be in direct proportion to the difficulty, and to bear no relation whatever to the
beauty of the performances. A Frenchman regards, with perfect indifference, dances which, to
a stranger at least, appear performed with inimitable grace, because they are only common dances,
admirably well executed; but when one of the male performers, after spinning about for a long
time, with wonderful velocity, arrests himself suddenly, and stands immoveable on one foot;
or when one of the females wheels round on the toes of one foot, holding her other limb nearly
in a horizontal position--he breaks out into extravagant exclamations of astonishment and delight:
"Quel a plomb! Ah diable! Sacre Dieu!" &c.

But although the principal dances at the Opera, and those on which the French chiefly pride
themselves, are much injured, in point of beauty, by this artificial taste, the execution of
the less laboured parts of these dances, and of nearly the whole of their common national dances,
is quite free from this defect, and is, we should conceive, the most beautiful exhibition of
the kind that is any where to be seen. It is only in a city where amusements of all kinds are
sought for, not merely by way of relaxation, but as matters of serious interest and national
concern, and where dancing, in particular, is an object of universal and passionate admiration,
that such numbers of first-rate dancers can be found, as perform constantly at the Academie
de Musique. The whole strength of the company there, which often appeared on the stage at the
time we speak of, was certainly not less than 150; and there were hardly any of these whose
performance was not highly pleasing, and did not present the appearance of animation and interest
in the parts assigned them.

Many of the serious operas performed here are exceedingly beautiful; they are got up, not perhaps
at more expense, nor with more magnificence, than the spectacles in London, but certainly with
more taste and knowledge of stage effect. Tie scenery is beautifully painted, and is disposed
upon the stage with more variety, and in such a manner as to form a more complete illusion,
than on any other stage we have seen. The music and singing are certainly inferior to what
is heard at the Odeon, but the acting, where it is not injured by the effect of the recitative,
is very generally excellent; and the number and variety of dances introduced, afford opportunities
of displaying all the attractions of this theatre.

The pantomimes are uniformly executed with inimitable grace and effect. We were particularly
pleased with that called L'Enfant Prodigue, in which the powers and graces of Mademoiselle
Bigottini are displayed to all possible advantage. One of the most splendid of the serious
operas, is that entitled Le Caravansera de Cairo, the scenery of which was painted in Egypt,
by one of the artists who accompanied Napoleon thither, and is beyond comparison the most highly
finished and beautiful that we have ever seen, and gives an idea of the aspect of that country,
which no other work of art could convey. Another opera, which attracted our attention, was
called "Ossian, ou les Bardes." One of the scenes, where the heroes and heroines of departed
times are seen seated on the clouds, displayed a degree of magnificence which made it a fit
representation of "the dream of Ossian." Some of the Highland scenery in this opera was really
like nature; and the dresses, particularly the cambric and vandyked kilts, bore some distant
analogy to the real costume of the Highlanders; and although we could not gratify the Parisians
who sat by us, by admitting the resemblance of the female figures, who skipped about the stage
with single muslin petticoats, and pink and white kid slippers, to the "Montagnardes Ecossaises
c'est a dire demi-sauvages," whom they were intended to represent, we at least flattered their
vanity, by expressing our wish that the latter had resembled the former.

But the most beautiful of all the exhibitions at the Academie de Musique, are the ballets which
represent pastoral scenes and rural fetes, such as Colinette a la Cour, L'Epreuve Villageoise,
&c. It is singular, that in a city, the inhabitants of which have so entire a contempt for
rural enjoyments, pieces of this kind should form so favourite a theatrical entertainment;
but it must be confessed, that such scenes as form the subject of these ballets, occur but
seldom in the course of a country life, and never in the degree of perfection in which they
are represented in Paris. The union of rustic simplicity and innocence, with the polish and
refinement which are acquired by intercourse with the world, may be conceived by the help of
these exhibitions, but can hardly be witnessed in real life. The illusion, however, when such
scenes are exhibited, is exceedingly pleasing; and no where certainly is this illusion so perfect
as in the Academie de Musique, where the charming scenery, the enlivening music, the number
and variety of characters, which are supported with life and spirit, the beauty of the female
performers, and the graceful movements, and lively animated air of all;--if they do not recall
to the spectator any thing which he has really witnessed, seem to transport him into the more
delightful regions in which his fancy has occasionally wandered, and to realize for a moment
to him, those fairy scenes to which his youthful imagination had been familiarized, by the
beautiful fictions of poetry or romance.

* * *

The Parisian theatres are at all times sources of much amusement and delight; but at the time
of which we speak, they were doubly interesting, as affording opportunities of seeing the most
distinguished characters of this eventful age; and as furnishing occasional strong indications
of the state of popular feeling in France. The interest of occurrences of this last kind is
now gone by, and it is almost unnecessary for us to bear testimony to the strong party that
uniformly manifested itself when any sentiment was uttered expressive of a wish for war, of
admiration of martial achievements, and of indignation at foreign influence, or domestic perfidy,
(under which head the conduct of Talleyrand and of Marmont was included); and more especially,
when the success, and glory, and eternal, immutable, untarnished honour of France, were the
theme of declamation. The applause at passages of this last description seemed sometimes ludicrous
enough, when the theatres were guarded by Russian grenadiers, and nearly half filled with allied
officers, loaded with honours which had been won in combating the French armies.

The majority of the audience, however, appeared always delighted at the change of government,
and in the opera in particular, the first time that the King appeared, the expression of loyalty
was long, reiterated, and enthusiastic, far beyond our most sanguine anticipations. It would
have been absurd to judge of the real feelings of the majority of the Parisians, still more
of the nation at large, from this scene; and it was certainly not to be wished, that a blind
and devoted loyalty to one sovereign should take the place of infatuated attachment to another;
yet it was impossible not to sympathize with the joy of people who had been agitated, during
the best part of their lives, by political convulsions, or oppressed by military tyranny, but
who fancied themselves at length relieved from both; and who connected the hope of spending
the remainder of their days in tranquillity and peace, with the recollections which they had
received from their fathers, of the happiness and prosperity of their country under the long
line of its ancient kings. It was impossible to hear the national air of "Vive Henri Quatre,"
and the enthusiastic acclamations which accompanied it, without entering for the moment into
the feeling of unhesitating attachment, and unqualified loyalty, which has so long prevailed
in most countries of the world, but which the citizens of a free country should indulge only
when it has been deserved by long experience and tried virtue.

It was with different, but not less interesting feelings, that we listened to the same tune
from the splendid bands of the Russian and Prussian guards, as they passed along the Boulevards;
on their return to their own countries; It was a grand and moving spectacle of political virtue,
to see the armies which had been arrayed against France, striving to do honour to the government
which she had assumed:--instead of breathing curses, or committing outrages on the great and
guilty city, which had provoked all their vengeance, to see them march out of the gates of
Paris with the regularity of the strictest military discipline, to the sound of the grand national
air, which spoke "peace to her walls, and prosperity to her palaces,"--leaving, as it were,
a blessing on the capital which they had conquered and forgiven: It was a scene that left an
impression on the mind worthy of the troops who had bravely and successfully opposed the domineering
power of France,--who had struggled with it when it was strongest, and "ruled it when 'twas
wildest," but who spared it when it was fallen;--who forgot their wrongs when it was in their
power to revenge them;--who cast the laurels from their brows, as they passed before the rightful
monarch of France, and honoured him as the representative of a great and gallant people, long
beguiled by ambition, and abused by tyranny, but now acknowledging their errors, and professing
moderation and repentance.

CHAPTER VIII.

PARIS--THE FRENCH ARMY AND IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT.

IT is certainly a mistake to suppose, that the military power of France was first created by
Napoleon, or that military habits were actually forced on the people, with the view of aiding
his ambitious projects. The French have a restless, aspiring, enterprising spirit, not accompanied,
as in England, by a feeling of individual importance, and a desire of individual independence,
but modified by habits of submission to arbitrary power, and fitted, by the influence of despotic
government, for the subordination of military discipline. Add to this, the encouragement which
was held out by the rapid promotion of soldiers during the wars of the revolution, when the
highest military offices were not only open to the attainment, but were generally appropriated
to the claims of men who rose from the ranks; and the general dissemination, at that period,
of an unbounded desire for violence and rapine: And it will probably be allowed, that the spirit
of the French nation, at the time when he came to the head of it, was truly and almost exclusively
military. He was himself a great soldier; he rose to the supreme government of a great military
people, and he availed himself of their habits and principles to gratify his ambition, and
extend his fame; but he ought not to be charged with having created the spirit, which in fact
created him; a spirit so powerful, and so extensively diffused, that in comparison with it,
even his efforts might be said to be "dashing with his oar to hasten the cataract;" to be "waving
with his fan to give speed to the wind." The favourite saying of Napoleon, "Every Frenchman
is a soldier, and as such, at the disposal of the Emperor," expresses a principle which was
not merely enforced by arbitrary power, but engrafted on the character and habits of the French
people.

The French are certainly admirably fitted for becoming soldiers: they have a restless activity,
which surmounts difficulties, a buoyancy and elasticity of disposition, which rises superior
to hardships, and calamities, and privations, not with patient fortitude, but with ease and
cheerfulness. A Frenchman does not regard war, merely as the serious struggle in which his
patriotism and valour are to be tried; he loves it for its own sake, for the interest and agitation
it gives to his mind; it is his "game,--his gain,--his glory,--his delight." Other nations
of Europe have become military, in consequence of threats or injuries, of the dread of hostile
invasion, of the presence of foreign armies, or the galling influence of foreign power; but
if the origin of the French military spirit may be traced to similar sources, it must at least
be allowed, that the effect has been out of all proportion to the cause.

It is probable, however, that the effervescence of military ideas and feelings, which arose
out of the revolution, would have gradually subsided, had it not been for the fostering influence
of the imperial government. The turbulent and irregular energies of a great people let loose
from former bonds, received a fixed direction, and were devoted to views of military ascendancy
and national aggrandizement under Napoleon. The continued gratification of the French vanity,
by the fame of victories and the conquest of nations, completed the effect on the manner and
habits of the people, which the events of the revolution had begun. Napoleon well knew, that
in flattering this ruling propensity, he took the whole French nation on their weak side, and
he had some reason for saying, that their thirst for martial glory and political influence
ought to be a sufficient apology to them for all the wars into which he plunged them.

It is impossible to spend even a few days in France without seeing strong indications of the
prevailing love of military occupations, and admiration of military merit. The common peasants
in the fields shew, by their conversation, that they are deeply interested in the glory of
the French arms, and competent to discuss the manner in which they are conducted. In the parts
of the country which had been the seat of war, we found them always able to give a good general
description of the military events that had taken place; and when due allowance was made for
their invariable exaggeration of the number of the allied troops, and concealment of that of
the French, these accounts, as far as we could judge by comparing them with the official details,
and with the information of officers who had borne a part in the campaign, were tolerably correct.
The fluency with which they talked of military operations, of occupying positions, cutting
off retreats, defiling over bridges, debouching from woods, advancing and retreating, marching
and bivouacking, shewed the habitual current of their thoughts; and they were always more willing
to enter on the details of such operations, than to enumerate their own losses, or dwell on
their individual sufferings.

A similar eagerness to enter into conversation on military subjects, was observable in almost
all Frenchmen of the lower orders, with whom we had any dealings. Our landlord at Paris, a
quiet sickly man, who had no connection with the army, and who had little to say for himself
on most subjects, displayed a marvellous fluency on military tactics; and seemed to think that
no time was lost which was employed in haranguing to us on the glory and honour of the French
army, and impressing on our minds its superiority to the allies.

Indeed, the whole French nation certainly take a pride in the deeds of their brethren in arms,
which absorbs almost all other feelings; and which is the more singular, as it does not appear
to us to be connected with strong or general affection or gratitude for any particular individual.
It was not the fame of any one General but the general honour of the French arms, about which
they seemed anxious. We never met with a Frenchman, of any rank, or of any political persuasion,
who considered the French army as fairly overcome in the campaign of 1814; and the shifts and
contrivances by which they explained all the events of the campaign, without having recourse
to that supposition, were wonderfully ingenious. The best informed Frenchmen whom we met in
Paris, even those who did not join in the popular cry of treason and corruption against Marmont,
regarded the terms granted by Alexander to their city, as a measure of policy rather than of
magnanimity. They uniformly maintained, that the possession of the heights of Belleville and
Montmartre did not secure the command of Paris: that if Marmont had chosen, he might have defended
the town after he had lost these positions; and that, if the Russians had attempted to take
the town by force, they might have succeeded, but would have lost half their army. Indeed,
so confidently were these propositions maintained by all the best informed Frenchmen, civil
or military, royalist of imperialist, whom we met, that we were at a loss whether to give credit
to the statement uniformly given us by the allied officers, that the town was completely commanded
by those heights, and might have been burnt and destroyed, without farther risk on the part
of the assailants, after they were occupied. The English officers, with whom we had an opportunity
of conversing on this subject, seemed divided in opinion regarding it; and we should have hesitated
to which party to yield our belief, had not the conduct of Napoleon and his officers in the
campaign of the present year, the extraordinary precautions which they took to prevent access
to the positions in question, by laying the adjacent country under water, and fortifying the
heights themselves, clearly shewn the importance, in a military point of view, which is really
attached to them.

The credulity of the French, in matters connected with the operations of their armies, often
astonished us. It appeared to arise, partly from the scarcity of information in the country;
from their having no means of confirming, correcting, or disproving the exaggerated and garbled
statements which were laid before them; and partly from their national vanity, which disposed
them to yield a very easy assent to every thing that exalted their national character. In no
other country, we should conceive, would such extravagant and manifestly exaggerated statements
be swallowed, as the French soldiers are continually in the habit of dispersing among their
countrymen. From the style of the conversation which we were accustomed to hear at caffés and
tables d'hôte, we should conceive, that the French bulletins, which appeared to us such models
of gasconade, were admirably well fitted, not merely to please the taste, but even to regulate
the belief, or at least the professions of belief, of the majority of French politicians, with
regard to the events they commemorate.

The general interest of a nation in the deeds and honours of its army, is the best possible
security for its general conduct; and it must be admitted, that in those qualities which are
chiefly valued by the French nation, the French army was never surpassed; while it is equally
obvious, that both the army and the people have at present little regard for some of the finest
virtues which can adorn the character of soldiers.

The grand characteristic of the French army, on which both the soldiers and the people pride
themselves, is what was long ago ably pointed out by the author of the "Caractere des Armées
Europeennes Actuelles"--the individual intelligence and activity of the soldiers. They were
taken at that early age, when the influence of previous habit is small, and when the character
is easily moulded into any form that is wished; they were accustomed to pride themselves on
no qualities, but those which are serviceable against their enemies, and they had before them
the most animating prospect of rewards and promotion, if their conduct was distinguished. Under
these circumstances, the native vigour, and activity, and acuteness of their minds, took the
very direction which was likely, not merely to make them good soldiers, but to fit them for
becoming great officers; and this ultimate destination of his experience, and ability, and
valour, has a very manifest effect on the mind of the French soldier. We hardly ever spoke
to one of them, of any rank, about any of the battles in which he had been engaged, without
observing, that he had in his head a general plan of the action, which he always delivered
to us with perfect fluency, in the technical language of war, and with quite as much exaggeration
as was necessary for his purpose. What he wanted in correct information, he would assuredly
make up with lies, but he would seldom fail to give a general consistent idea of the affair;
and it was obvious, that the manœuvres of the armies, and the conduct of the generals, on both
sides, had occupied as much of his consideration and reflection, as his own individual dangers
and adventures.

When we afterwards entered into conversation with some English private soldiers, at Brussels
and Antwerp, concerning the actions they had seen, we perceived a very marked difference. They
were very ready to enter into details concerning all that they had themselves witnessed, and
very anxious to be perfectly correct in their statements; but they did not appear ever to have
troubled their heads about the general plan of the actions. They had abundance of technical
phrases concerning their own departments of the service; but very few words relative to the
manœuvring of large bodies of men. Their rule seemed to be, to do their own duty, and let their
officers do theirs; the principle of the division of labour seemed to prevail in military,
as well as in civil affairs, much more extensively in England than in France.

The soldiers of the French imperial guard, in particular, are remarkably intelligent, and in
general very communicative. We entered into conversation with some of these men at La Fere,
and from one of them, who had been in the great battle at Laon, we had fully as distinct an
account of that action as we are able to collect, the next day, from several officers who accompanied
us from St Quentin to Cambray, and who had likewise been engaged in it. When we asked him the
numbers of the two armies on that day, he replied without the least hesitation, that the allied
army was 100,000 and the French 30,000.--Another of these men had been at Salamanca, and after
we had granted his fundamental assumption, that the English army there was 120,000 strong,
and the French 40,000, he proceeded to give us a very good account of the battle.

These men, as well as almost all the French officers and soldiers with whom we had opportunities
at different times of conversing, gave their opinions of the allied armies without any reserve,
and with considerable discrimination. Of the Russians and Prussians they said, "Ils savent
bien faire la guerre; ils sont de bons soldats;" but of the common soldiers of these services
in particular, they said, "Ils sont tres forts, et durs comme l'ame du diable--mais ils sont
des veritables betes; ils n'ont point d'intelligence. La puissance de l'armée Française," they
added, with an air of true French gasconade, "est dans l'intelligence des soldats."--Of the
Austrians, they said, "Ils brillent dans leur cavalerie, mais pour leur infanterie, elle ne
vaut rien."

From these soldiers we could extract no more particular character of the English troops, than
"Ils se battent bien," But it is doing no more than justice to the French officers, even such
as were decidedly imperialist, who conversed with us at Paris, and in different parts of the
country, to acknowledge that they uniformly spoke in the highest terms of the conduct of the
English troops. The expression which they very commonly used, in speaking of the manner in
which the English carried on the war in Spain, and in France, was, "loyauté." "Les Russes,
et les Prussiens," they said, "sont des grands et beauxhommes, mais ils n'ont pas le cœur ou
la loyauté des Anglais. Les Anglais sont la nation du monde qui font la guerre avec le plus
de loyauté," &c. This referred partly to their valour in the field, and partly to their humane
treatment of prisoners and wounded; and partly also to their honourable conduct in France,
where they preserved the strictest discipline, and paid for every thing they took. Of the behaviour
of the English army in France, they always spoke as excellent:--"digne de leur civilization."

A French officer who introduced himself to us one night in a box at the opera, expressing his
high respect for the English, against whom, he said, he had the honour to fight for six years
in Spain, described the steadiness and determination of the English infantry in attacking the
heights on which the French army was posted at Salamanca, in terms of enthusiastic admiration.
Another who had been in the battle of Toulouse, extolled the conduct of the Highland regiments
in words highly expressive of

    "The stern joy which warriors feel,
    In foemen worthy of their steel."

"Il y a quelques regimens des Ecossais sans culottes," said he, "dans l'armée de Wellington,
qui se battent joliment." He then described the conduct of one regiment in particular, (probably
the 42d or 79th), who attacked a redoubt defended with cannon, and marched up to it in perfect
order; never taking the muskets from their shoulders, till they were on the parapet: "Si tranquillement,--sacre
Dieu! c'etoit superbe."

Of the military talents of the Duke of Wellington they spoke also with much respect, though
generally with strong indications of jealousy. They were often very ingenious in devising means
of explaining his victories, without compromising, as they called it, the honour of the French
arms. At Salamanca, they said, that in consequence of the wounds of Marmont and other generals,
their army was two hours without a commander. At Vittoria again, it was commanded by Jourdan,
and any body could beat Jourdan. At Talavera, he committed "les plus grandes sottises du monde;
il a fait une contre-marche digne d'un bete." Some of the Duke of Wellington's victories over
Soult they stoutly denied, and others they ascribed to great superiority of numbers, and to
the large drafts of Soult's best troops for the purpose of forming skeleton battalions, to
receive the conscripts of 1813.

The French pride themselves greatly on the honour of their soldiers, and in this quality they
uniformly maintain that they are unrivalled, at least on the continent of Europe. To this it
is easy to reply, that, according to the common notions of honour, it has been violated more
frequently and more completely by the French army than by any other. But this is in fact eluding
the observation rather than refuting it. The truth appears to be, that the French soldiers
have a stronger sense of honour than those of almost any other service; but that the officers,
having risen from the ranks, have brought with them to the most exalted stations, no more refined
or liberal sentiments than those by which the private soldiers are very frequently actuated;
and have, on the contrary, acquired habits of duplicity and intrigue, from which their brethren
in inferior situations are exempt.

When we say of the French soldiers that they have a strong sense of honour, we mean merely
to express, that they will encounter dangers, and hardships, and privations, and calamities
of every kind, with wonderful fortitude, and even cheerfulness, from no other motive than an
esprit du corps--a regard for the character of the French arms. Without provocation from their
enemies, without the prospect of plunder, without the hope of victory, without the conviction
of the interest of their country in their deeds, without even the consolation of expecting
care or attention in case of wounds or sickness,--they will not hesitate to lavish their blood,
and sacrifice their lives, for the glory of France. Other troops go through similar scenes
of suffering and danger with equal fortitude, when under the influence of strong passions,
when fired by revenge, or animated by the hope of plunder, or cheered by the acclamations of
victory; but with the single exception of the British army, we doubt whether there are any
to whom the mere spirit of military honour is of itself so strong a stimulus.

We have already noticed the state of the French sick and wounded, left in the hospitals at
Wilna during the retreat from Russia; a state so deplorable, as to have excited the strongest
commiseration among their indignant enemies. This, however, was but a single instance of the
system almost uniformly acted on, we have understood, by the French medical staff in Russia,
Germany, and Spain, of deserting their hospitals on the approach of the enemy, so as to leave
to him, if he did not chuse to see the whole of the patients perish before his eyes, the burden
of maintaining them. The miseries which this system must have occasioned, in the campaign of
1813 in particular, require no illustration.

Another regulation of the French army, during the campaign of that year, will shew the utter
carelessness of its leaders, in regard to the lives or comforts of the soldiers. When the men
who were incapacitated for service by wounds or disease, were sent back to France, they were
directed, in the first instance, to Mentz, where their uniforms, and any money they might have
about them, were regularly taken from them, and given to the young conscripts who were passing
through to join the armies; they were then dressed in miserable old rags, which were collected
in the adjacent provinces by Jews employed for that purpose, and in this state they were sent
to beg their way to their homes. Such, as we were assured by some of our countrymen, who saw
many of these men passing through Verdun, was the reward of thousands of the "grande nation"
who had lost their limbs or their health in vainly endeavouring to maintain the glory and influence
of their country in foreign states. In the campaign of 1814, which was carried on during the
continuance of a frost of almost unprecedented intensity, and in so rapid and variable a manner,
and with so large bodies of troops, as to prevent the establishment of regular hospitals or
of any thing like a regular Commissariat, the French troops, particularly the young conscripts
and national guards, suffered dreadfully; and numbers of them who escaped the swords of their
enemies, perished miserably or were disabled for life, in consequence of hardships, and fatigues,
and privations.

All these examples were known to the French soldiers--they took place daily before their eyes,
and, in the last instance, the allies took pains to let them know, that the only obstacle to
honourable peace was the obstinacy of their commander; yet their ardour continued unabated;
the young soldiers displayed a degree of valour in every action of both campaigns, which drew
forth the warm applause even of their enemies; and it is not to be doubted, that the troops
whom Napoleon collected at Fontainbleau, at the end of the campaign in France, were enthusiastically
bent on carrying into effect the frantic resolution of attacking Paris, then occupied by a
triple force of the allies, from which his officers with difficulty dissuaded him.

In like manner, there is probably no general but Napoleon, who would not have attempted to
terminate the miseries of the army during the retreat from Moscow, by entering into negotiation
with the Russians; nor is there any army but the French which would have tamely consented to
be entirely sacrificed to the obstinacy of an individual. But to have concluded a convention
with the Russians would have been compromising the honour of the French arms; and this little
form of words seemed to strike more terror to the hearts of the French soldiers, than either
the swords of the Russians, or the dreary wastes and wintry storms of Russia, which might have
been apostrophised in the words of the poet,

    "Alas! even your unhallowed breath
    May spare the victim fallen low,
    But man will ask no truce to death,
    No bounds to human woe."

"He saw, without emotion, (says Labaume), the miserable remains of an army, lately so powerful,
defile before him; yet his presence never excited a murmur; on the contrary, it animated even
the most timid, who were always tranquil when in presence of the emperor." At the present moment,
from all the accounts that we have received, as well as from our own observations of those
French soldiers whom we have ourselves seen after their return from Moscow, the sentiments
of the survivors of that expedition with regard to Napoleon remained unchanged; and no person
who has read any of the narratives of the campaign can ascribe their constancy to any other
cause, than that feeling of attachment to the glory of their country, to which the French,
however improperly, give the name of military honour.

If the character of the French soldiers is deserving of high admiration for their constancy
and courage, it must be observed, on the other hand, that there is a mixture of selfishness
in it, an utter disregard of the feelings, and indifference as to the sufferings, not merely
of their enemies, or of the inhabitants of the countries which they traverse, but even of their
best friends and companions, which forbids us to go farther in their praise. It is as unnecessary,
as it would be painful, to enter on an enumeration of the instances of wanton cruelty, violence,
and rapacity, which have sullied the fame of their most brilliant deeds in arms. It will be
long before the French name will recover the disgrace which the remembrance of such scenes
as Moscow, or Saragossa, or Tarragona, has attached to it, in every country of Europe; and
it is impossible to have a more convincing proof of the tyrannical and oppressive conduct of
the French armies in foreign states, than the universal enthusiasm with which Europe has risen
against them,--the indignant and determined spirit with which all ranks of every country have
united to rid themselves of an oppression, not less galling to their individual feelings, than
degrading to their national character. But it is particularly worthy of remark, that the latest
and most authentic writers in France itself, who have given any account of the French armies,
have, noticed selfishness, and disregard of the feelings of their own comrades, as well as
of all other persons, as one of the most prominent features of their character. We need only
refer to Labaume's book on the expedition to Russia, to Miot's work on the Egyptian campaigns,
or to Rocca's history of the war in Spain, for ample proofs of the correctness of this observation.
Whether this peculiarity is to be ascribed chiefly to their national character, or to the nature
of the services in which they have been engaged, it is not very easy to decide.

The dishonourable conduct of the French officers, particularly of the superior officers, in
the present year, is much more easily explained than excused. They had risen from the ranks--they
had been engaged all their lives in active and iniquitous services--they had been accustomed
to look to success as the best criterion of merit, and to regard attachment to their leaders
and their colours, as the only duties of soldiers;--they had never thought seriously on morality
or religion--they had been applauded by their countrymen and fellow-soldiers, for actions in
direct violation of both--and they had been taught to consider that applause as their highest
honour and legitimate reward. Under these circumstances, it is easy to see, that they could
have little information with regard to the true interests of France, and that they would regard
the most sacred engagements as binding only in so far as general opinion would reprobate the
violation of them; and when a strong party shewed itself, in the nation as well as the army,
ready to support them and to extol their conduct in rising against the government, that their
oaths would have no influence to restrain them. It is to be considered, likewise, that a large
proportion of the officers had been originally republicans. They had been engaged in long and
active military service, and been elated with military glory; in the multiplicity of their
duties, and the intoxication of their success as soldiers, they had ceased to be citizens;
but during the repose that succeeded the establishment of the Bourbons, when they again found
themselves in the midst of their countrymen, their original political feelings and prejudices
returned, embittered and exasperated by the influence of their military habits, and the remembrance
of their military disgraces. We have ourselves conversed with several officers, who were strongly
attached to Napoleon, but whose political views were decidedly republican; and have heard it
stated, that the officers of artillery and engineers are supposed to be particularly democratic
in their principles.

It is much easier to account for the conduct of the French army since the dethronement of Napoleon,
than to point out any means by which that conduct could have been altered. It was stated to
us at Paris, that the number of military officers to be provided for by government, was upwards
of 60,000. These would certainly comprise a very large proportion of the talents and enterprise
of the French nation. The number of them that can have been sincerely devoted to the Bourbons,
or that can have been otherwise disposed of since that time, cannot be great; nor do we see
by what means it will be possible to reconcile the majority of this very important class of
men, to a government which has twice owed its elevation to the discomfiture and humiliation
of the French arms.

It may be easily conceived, that in an army, the officers of which have, for the most part,
risen from the ranks, the principles of strict military subordination cannot be enforced with
the same punctilious rigour as in services where a marked distinction is constantly kept up
between officers and soldiers. There is a more gradual transition from the highest to the lowest
situations of the French army--a more complete amalgamation of the whole mass, than is consistent
with the views of other governments in the maintenance of their standing armies.

It is true, that a change has taken place in the composition of the French army, in this respect,
under the imperial government. A number of military schools were established and encouraged
in different parts of the country, and a great number of young men were sent to these by their
parents, under the understanding, that after being educated in them they should become officers
at once, without passing through the inferior steps, to which they would otherwise have been
devoted by the conscription. A great number of officers, therefore, have of late years been
appointed from these schools to the army, who have never served in the ranks; but the manners
and habits which they acquire at the schools are, we should conceive, very little superior
to what they might have learnt from the private soldiers, who would otherwise have been their
associates. A comparison of the appearance and manner of the pupils of the Ecole Militaire,
with those of the young men at the English military colleges, would shew, as strongly as any
other parallel that could be drawn, the difference in respectability and gentlemanlike feeling
between the English and French officers.

There is so little of uniformity in dress, of regard to external appearance, or of shew of
subordination, and inferiority to their officers, in the French soldiers, that a stranger would
be apt to consider them as deficient in discipline. The fact is, that they know perfectly,
from being continually engaged in active service, what are the essentials of military discipline,
and that they are quite careless of all superfluous forms. Whatever regulations are necessary,
in any particular circumstances, are strictly enforced; and the men submit to them, not from
any principle of slavish subjection to their officers, but rather from deference to their superior
intelligence and information, and from a regard to the good of the service.

The French army may, in fact, be said to have little of the feelings which are truly military.
The officers have not the strong feeling of humanity, and the high and just sense of honour,
not merely as members of the army, but as individuals; the soldiers have not the habit of implicit
obedience and attachment to their peculiar duties; and the whole have not the lively sense
of responsibility to their country, and dependence on their sovereign, which are probably essential
to the existence of an army which shall not be dangerous, even to the state that maintains
it. The French army submitted implicitly to Napoleon, because he was their general; but we
should doubt if they ever considered themselves, even under his dominion, as the servants of
France. They appear, at present, at least, to think themselves an independent body, who have
a right to act according to their own judgment, and are accountable to nobody for their actions.
In this idea of their own importance they were, of course, encouraged by Napoleon, who, on
his return from Elba, spoke of the injuries done by the Bourbons to the army and people, and
assigned the former the most honourable place in his Champ de Mai. And it will appear by no
means surprising, that they should have acquired these sentiments, when we consider the importance
which has been attached to their exploits by their countrymen, the encouragement to which they
have been accustomed, the preference to all other classes of men which was shewn them by the
late government, and the nature of the services in which they have been engaged, and for which
they have been rewarded; circumstances fitted to assimilate them, in reality as well as appearance,
rather to an immense band of freebooters, having no principle but union among themselves, and
submission to their chiefs, than to an established and responsible standing army.

This observation applies to the feelings and principles of the soldiers taken as a body, not
to their individual habits; for, excepting in the case of the detachment of the imperial guard,
quartered at Fontainbleau, we never understood that the French soldiers in time of peace, at
least among their own countrymen, were accused of outrage or rapine.

There is considerable variety in the personal appearance of the French soldiers. The infantry
are generally little men, much inferior to the Russians and Prussians in size and weight; but
as they are almost all young, they appear equally well fitted for bearing fatigues, and they
have an activity in their gait and demeanour, which accords well with their general character.
In travelling through the country, we could almost always tell a French soldier from one of
the allies at a distance, by the spring of his step. They have another excellent quality, that
of being easily fed. Nothing appeared to excite more astonishment or indignation in France,
than the quantity of food consumed by the allied troops. We found at Paris, that the Russian
convalescents, occupying the hospitals which had formerly been appropriated to French troops,
actually eat three times the rations which the French had been allowed. Frenchmen of the middling
and higher ranks appear to have generally very keen appetites, and often surprise Englishmen
by the magnitude and variety of their meals; but the peasantry and lower orders are accustomed
to much poorer fare than the corresponding classes, at least in the southern part of our island,
and the ordinary diet of the French soldiers is inferior to that of the English. In garrison,
they are never allowed animal food, at least when in their own country; and the better living
to which they are accustomed in foreign countries, and on active service, is a stronger recommendation
of war to these volatile and unreflecting spirits, than it might at first be thought.

The French cavalry are almost universally fine men, much superior to the infantry in appearance.
The horses of the chasseurs à cheval, and hussars, are small, but active and hardy; and even
those of the cuirassiers have not the weight or beauty of the English heavy dragoons, though
we have understood that they bear the fatigues and privations, incident to long campaigns,
much better.

The imperial guard was composed, like the Russian guard, of picked men, who had already served
a certain length of time, and the pay being higher than of the regiments of the line, and great
pains being uniformly taken to preserve them as much as possible, from the hardships and dangers
to which the other troops were exposed, and to reserve them for great emergencies, it was at
once an honour and a reward to belong to them. We saw a review of the elite of the imperial
guard on the 8th of May 1814, in presence of the King of France; the regiments of cavalry,
of which a great number passed, were very weak in numbers, but the men were uncommonly fine,
and the horses strong and active. The finest regiment of infantry of the old guard, with some
pieces of cannon, did not defile before the King, but passed out of the Cour de Carousel by
a back way, on account, as we understood, of its having shewn strong symptoms of disgust on
the entrance of the King into Paris. That regiment, as well as all the rest of the infantry
of the old guard, then called the Grenadiers Français, whom we had ever occasion to see, was
composed of the finest men, not merely in point of strength, but of activity and apparent intelligence.
The few pieces of artillery of the guard that we saw were in very bad condition, and their
equipment particularly mean; but this branch of the service had not then had time to repair
the losses it had sustained in the campaign.

The cavalry of the guard appeared to have been the most fashionable service under Napoleon.
There were cuirassiers, heavy and light dragoons, chasseurs, hussars, grenadiers à cheval,
and lancers of the guard, all of whom had different and splendid uniforms, and presented an
uncommonly varied and magnificent appearance when reviewed together. Their magnificence and
variety was evidently intended to gratify the taste of the French people for splendid shows,
and to attract young men of fortune and expensive habits.

The imperial guard had much more of the air and manner, as well as dress, of regular soldiers,
than any other part of the French army; indeed it is impossible to conceive a more martial
or imposing figure than that of one of the old grenadiers, (commonly called the vieux moustaches,)
in his striking and appropriate costume, armed with his musket and sword, the cross of the
legion of honour on his breast, his rough and weather-beaten countenance bearing the impression
of the sun of Italy and the snows of Russia, while his keen and restless eye shows, more expressively
than words, that he is still "ready, aye ready, for the field."

We thought we could discern in the countenances of the troops of different nations, whom we
saw reviewed about this time, the traces of the difference of national character. The general
expression of the Russians, we thought, was that of stern obstinate determination; of the Prussians,
warm enthusiastic gallantry; of the French, fierce and indignant impetuosity. This may have
been fancy, but all who have seen the troops of these different nations, will allow a very
striking difference of expression of countenance, as well as of features.

* * *

No measure was omitted by Napoleon to secure, the services, in the army, of all who could be
of any use in it. The organization of the garde d'honneur was intended to include as large
a number as possible of the young men, whose circumstances had enabled them to avoid the conscription.
No act of the Imperial Government seemed to have given more general offence in France than
the formation of this corps, the number of which was stated to have amounted at one time to
10,000. They were, in the first instance, invited to volunteer, under the assurance that they
were to be employed as a guard for Maria Louisa, and under no circumstances to be sent across
the Rhine. A maximum and minimum number were fixed for each arrondissement, some number between
which was to be made up by voluntary enrolments; but when any deficiency was discovered, as
for example in Holland, where the young men were very little disposed to voluntary service
in the French army, a balloting immediately took place, and a number greater than the maximum
was compelled to come forward. Exemption from this service was impossible; immense sums were
offered and refused. They were all mounted, armed, and clothed at their own expense; those
who did not chuse to march, were sent off under an escort of gens-d'armes; and all were conducted
to the fortresses on the Rhine, were they were regularly drilled. Some of them were induced
to volunteer for extended service, by a promise, that after serving one campaign, they should
be made officers; and in the course of the campaign of 1813, all of them were brought up to
join the army; and these young men, taken only a few weeks before from their families, where
many of them had been accustomed to every luxury and indulgence, were compelled to go through
all the duties and fatigues of common hussars. Some regiments of them, which were very early
brought into action, having misconducted themselves, were immediately disbanded; their horses,
arms, and uniforms, were taken from them for the use of the other troops, and they were dismissed,
to find the best of their way to their homes. Those who remained were distributed among the
different corps of cavalry, and suffered very severely in the campaign in France. We spoke
to some of them at Paris, who said they had bivouacked, at one period of the campaign, on snow,
fourteen nights successively, and described to us the action at Rheims, one of the last that
was fought, where half of their regiment were left on the field. These men complained loudly
of the treacherous conduct of Napoleon to them and their brethren of the same corps; yet they
expressed their willingness to undergo all their sufferings again, if they could thereby transfer
the date of the peace to the other side of the Rhine.

The effect of this measure on the middling and higher ranks was not more oppressive than that
of the conscription on the lower ranks, and even on persons in tolerably good circumstances;
for we have heard of £.400 Sterling, being twice paid to rescue an individual, whom a third
conscription had at length torn from his family. The impression produced in France, however,
by either of these measures, cannot be judged of from a comparison with the feelings so often
manifested in this country, under circumstances of less aggravated affliction. The same careless,
unthinking, constitutional cheerfulness, which is so commendable in those Frenchmen whose sufferings
are all personal, displays itself in a darker point of view, when they are called on to sympathise
with the sufferings of their friends. It is a disposition, allied indeed to magnanimity on
the one hand, but to selfishness on the other. The sufferings of the French on such an occasion
as the loss of a near relation, may be acute; but they are of very short duration. In Paris,
mourning is at present hardly ever worn. At the time when we were there, although a bloody
campaign had only recently been concluded, we did not see above five or six persons in mourning,
and even these were not certainly French. We understood it to be a principle all over France,
never to wear mourning for a son; but whether this was adopted in compliance with the wishes
of Napoleon, as was stated by some, or was general before his time, as others maintained, we
were not sufficiently informed.

* * *

It may be a question, whether the real, as well as professed motive of the policy of Napoleon,
while he directed the affairs of France, was some ill-conceived and absurd idea of the superior
happiness and prosperity which France might enjoy, if placed indisputably at the head of the
civilized world, and especially if elevated above the rivalship of England; but if the good
of France was really his end, it is quite certain that it engaged very little of his attention,
and that he occupied himself almost exclusively with regard to the means which he held to be
necessary to its attainment. The causes of the wars in which he engaged were of little importance
to him; but the immediate object of all of them was the glory and aggrandizement of France;
and to this object his whole soul was devoted, and all the energies of the state were directed.

In a general view, the imperial government may be said to have rested on the following foundations.

In the first place, it rested on the principle which was universally acted on, of giving active
employment, and animating encouragement, to all men of talents or enterprise--to all whose
friendship might be useful, or whose enmity might be dangerous. The conscription carried off
the flower of the youthful population; parents were encouraged to send their children; if they
shewed any superior abilities, to the military schools, whence they were rapidly promoted in
the army. The formation of the garde d'honneur effectually prevented all danger from a numerous
class of men, whose circumstances might have enabled them to exert themselves in opposing public
measures. In the civil administration of the country, it was the system of Napoleon, from the
beginning of his career, to give employment to all who might be dangerous, if their services
were not secured. The prefects of towns and arrondissements, were generally men of intelligence
and information regarding the characters of the inhabitants; and the persons recommended by
them to the immense number of situations in the police, in the collection of taxes, &c. were
always men of activity, enterprise, and ability: Birth, education, and moral character, were
altogether disregarded, and religious principle was rather considered a fault than a recommendation.

The consequence was, that the young, the bold, the active, the enterprising, the independent,
were either attached to the imperial government, or at least prevented from exerting themselves
in opposition to it; while those whom family cares, or laborious occupations, or habits of
indolence, or want of energy of mind, rendered unfit for resistance to any government, were
the only people whose interest it was to resist that of Napoleon.

In the next place, while much was done by these means to secure the support of the most important
part of the nation to the imperial government, the most effectual precautions were taken to
prevent danger to it, from those whom either principle might lead, or injuries might provoke
to disaffection. The police was everywhere so powerful, and the system of espionage so universally
extended, that it was almost impossible for different individuals to combine against the government.
Without including the hosts of douaniers, who were under the orders of the collectors of taxes,
the gens d'armerie, who were at the disposal of the police, and had no other duties to perform,
amounted to above 10,000 men, cavalry and infantry, all completely armed and equipped. As soon,
therefore, as any individual excited suspicion, there was no difficulty as to his apprehension.
The number of police officers was very great, and they were all low born, clever, unprincipled
men, perfectly fitted for their situations. The extent and accuracy of the information possessed
by them was almost incredible. Indeed, we regard the system of espionage, by which this information
was procured, as the most complete and damning proof of the general selfishness and immorality
of the French people, of which we have received any account. It was not merely that a number
of persons were employed by the police as spies; but that no man could put any confidence even
in his best friends and nearest relations. The very essence of the system was the destruction
of all confidence between man and man; and its success was such, that no man could venture
to express any sentiments hostile to the government, even in the retirement of his own family
circle. That sacred sanctuary was every where invaded, not by the strong hand of power, but
by the secret machinations of bribery and intrigue.

We were particularly informed, with respect to the establishment of the police in Amsterdam,
where the sentiments of the people being known to be averse to French dominion, it was of course
made stronger than in less suspicious parts of the country. Within a week after the annexation
of Holland to France, the police was in full force, and the spies every where in motion. No
servant was allowed to engage himself who had not a certificate from the police, implying his
being a spy on his master. At the tables d'hôte, persons were placed to encourage seditious
conversation, and those who expressed themselves strongly, were soon after seized and committed
to prison. No person could leave Amsterdam, even to go three miles into the country, without
a passport from the police, which was granted only to whom they pleased. When a party went
out on such an excursion, they were sure to be met by some of the gens d'armerie, who already
knew their names and destination, and who fixed the time of their return. From the decisions
of the police there was no appeal; and those who were imprisoned by them, (as so many of the
inhabitants of Amsterdam were, that it ceased to be any reproach,) had no method of bringing
on a trial, or even of ascertaining the crimes of which they were accused. Frequently individuals
were transported from one part of the country to another, without any reason being assigned,
and set down among strangers, to make their bread as they best could, under the inspection
of the police, who instantly arrested them on their attempting to escape. This system was probably
more strictly enforced in Holland than over the greater part of France, but its most essential
parts were every where the same, and the information, with respect to the private characters
and sentiments of individuals, was certainly more easily obtained in France than in Holland.

Such, according to the information of the most intelligent and best informed persons with whom
we had an opportunity of conversing, were the principal means by which the power of Napoleon
was maintained, and his authority enforced. But it must be owned that he did more than this,--that
during the greater part of his reign, he not only commanded the obedience, but obtained the
admiration and esteem of the majority of his subjects.

In looking for the causes of this, we shall in vain attempt to discover them in real benefits
conferred on France by Napoleon. It is true, that agriculture made some progress during his
reign, but this was decidedly owing to the transference of the landed property from nobles
and churchmen, to persons really interested in the cultivation of the soil, which had taken
place before his time, and not to the empty and ostentatious patronage which he bestowed on
it; the best proof of which is, that the main improvement that has taken place has not been,
as already observed, in the principles or practice of agriculture, but in the quantity of land
under tillage. It is true also, that certain manufactures have been encouraged by the exclusion
of the English goods; but this partial increase of wealth was certainly not worth the expense
of a year's war, and was heavily counterbalanced by the distress occasioned by his tyrannical
decrees in the commercial towns of France, and of the countries which were subjected to her
control.

As a single instance of this distress, we may just notice the situation of the city of Amsterdam
during the time that Holland was incorporated with France. Out of 200,000 inhabitants of that
city, more than one half, during the whole of that time, were absolutely deprived of the means
of subsistence, and lived merely on the charity of the remainder, who were, for the most part,
unable to engage in any profitable business, all foreign commerce being at an end, and supported
themselves therefore on the capital which they had previously acquired; and, lest that capital
should escape, two-thirds of the national debt of Holland were struck off by a single decree
of Napoleon. The population of the town fell off about 20,000 during the time of its connection
with France; the taxes, while the two countries were incorporated, were enormous; the income-tax,
which was independent of the droits reunis, or assessed taxes, having been stated to us at
one-fifth of every man's income. It was during the pressure of these burdens that the tremendous
system of police which we have described was enforced; and to add to the miseries of the unfortunate
inhabitants of this and the other commercial towns of Holland, they were not allowed to manifest
their sufferings. Every man who possessed or inhabited a house was compelled to keep it in
perfect repair; so that even at the time of their liberation, these towns bore no external
mark of poverty or decay. The consequence of that decree, however, had been, that persons possessing
houses at first lowered their rents, then asked no rents at all; happy to get them off their
hands, and throw on the tenants the burden of paying taxes for them and keeping them in repair;
and lastly, in many instances, offered sums of money to bribe others to live in their houses,
or even accept the property of them.

The taxes of France, under Napoleon, it would have been supposed, were alone sufficient to
exasperate the people against them. They were oppressive, not merely from their amount, but
especially from the arbitrary power which was granted to the prefects of towns and arrondissements,
and their agents, in collecting them. A certain sum was directed to be levied in each district,
and the apportioning of this burden on the different inhabitants was left almost entirely to
the discretion of these officers.

It is quite obvious, therefore, as we already hinted; that the popularity of Napoleon in France,
during at least the greater part of his reign; can be traced to no other source than the national
vanity of the French. As they are more fond of shew than of comfort in private life, so their
public affections are more easily won by gaudy decorations than by substantial benefits. Napoleon
gave them enough of the former; they had victories abroad and spectacles at home--their capital
was embellished--their country was aggrandised--their glory was exalted; and if he had continued
successful, France would still have continued to applaud and admire him, while she had sons
to swell her armies, and daughters to drudge in her fields.

As it was not Napoleon who made the French a military and ambitious people, so it is not his
fall alone that can secure the world against the effects of their military and ambitious spirit.
It is not merely the removal of him who has so long guided it, but the extinction of the spirit
itself that is necessary. The effect of the late events on the active part of the population
of France, cannot be accurately judged of in the present moment of irritation and disorder;
but whatever government that country may ultimately assume, it may surely be hoped that their
experience of unsuccessful and calamitous war has been sufficient to incline them to peace;
that they will learn to measure their national glory by a better standard than mere victory
or noise; that they will reflect on the true objects, both of political and military institutions,
and acknowledge the happiness of the people they govern to be the supreme law of kings, and
the blessings of the country they serve to be the best reward of soldiers.

CHAPTER IX.

JOURNEY TO FLANDERS.

When we left Paris, we took the road to Soissons and Laon, with a view to see the seat of war
during the previous campaign, and examine the interesting country of Flanders. After passing
the village of La Villette, and the heights of Belleville, the country becomes flat and uninteresting,
and is distinguished by those features which characterise almost all the level agricultural
districts of France. The road, which is of great breadth, and paved in the centre, runs through
a continued plain, in which, as far as the eye can reach, nothing is to be discerned but a
vast expanse of corn fields, varied at intervals by fallows, and small tracts of lucerne and
sainfoin. No inclosures are to be met with; few woods are seen to vary the uniformity of the
view; and the level surface of the ground is only broken at intervals by the long rows of fruit-trees,
which intersect the country in different directions, or the tall avenues of elms between which
the chaussèes are placed.

These elm trees would give a magnificent appearance to the roads, both from their age and the
immense length during which they fringe its sides, were it not that they are uniformly clipt
to the very top, for firewood, by the peasantry, and that all their natural beauty is in consequence
destroyed. The elm, indeed, pushes out its shoots to replace the branches which have been destroyed,
and fringes the lofty stem with a cluster of foliage; but as soon as these young branches have
become large, they too are in their turn sacrificed to the same purpose. When seen from a distance,
accordingly, these trees resemble tall May-poles with tufts at their tops, and are hardly to
be distinguished from the Lombardy poplars, which, in many parts of the country, line the sides
of the principal roads.

One most remarkable circumstance in the agricultural districts of France, is here to be seen
in its full extent. The people do not dwell in detached cottages, placed in the centre of their
farms or their properties, as in all parts of England; they live together in aged villages
or boroughs, often at the distance of two or three miles from the place of their labour, and
wholly separated from the farms which they are employed in cultivating. It is no uncommon thing
accordingly, to see a farmer leaving a little town in the morning with his ploughs and horses,
to go to his piece of ground, which lies many miles from the place of his residence.

This circumstance, which exists more or less in every part of France, is characteristic of
the state in which the people were placed in those remote periods, when their habits of life
were originally formed. It indicates that popular degradation and public insecurity, when the
poor were compelled to unite themselves in villages or towns for protection from the banditti,
whom the government was unable to restrain, or from the more desolating oppression of feudal
power. In every country of Europe, in which the feudal tyranny long subsisted; in Spain, in
France, in Poland, and in Hungary, this custom has prevailed to a certain extent, and the remains
of it are still to be seen in the remoter parts of Scotland. It is in countries alone whose
freedom has long subsisted; in Switzerland, in Flanders, and in England, that no traces of
its effects are to be discerned in the manners and the condition of the peasantry; that the
enjoyment of individual security has enabled the poor to spread themselves in fearless confidence
over the country; and that the traveller, in admiring the union of natural beauty with general
prosperity, which the appearance of the country exhibits, blesses that government, by the influence
of whose equal laws that delightful union has been effected.

In the neighbourhood of Paris, and in those situations which are favourable for vineyard or
garden cultivation, this circumstance gives a very singular aspect to the face of the country.
As far as the eye can reach, the sloping banks, or rising swells, are cultivated with the utmost
care, and intersected by little paths, which wind through the gardens, or among the vineyards,
in the most beautiful manner; yet no traces of human habitation are to be discerned, by whose
labour, or for whose use, this admirable cultivation has been conducted. The labourers, or
proprietors of these gardens, dwell at the distance of miles, in antiquated villages, which
resemble the old boroughs which are now wearing out in the improved parts of Scotland. In the
greater part of France, the people dwell in this manner, in crowded villages, while the open
country, every where cultivated, is but seldom inhabited. The superiority, accordingly, in
the beauty of those districts, where the cottages are sprinkled over the country, and surrounded
by fruit-trees, is greater than can well be imagined: and it is owing to this circumstance
that Picardy, Artois, and Normandy, exhibit so much more pleasing an appearance, than most
of the other provinces of France.

In the district between Paris and Soissons, as in almost every other part of the country, the
land is now in the hands of the peasantry, who became proprietors of it during the struggles
of the revolution. We had every where occasion to observe the extreme industry with which the
people conduct their cultivation, and perceived numerous instances of the truth of Mr Young's
observation, "that there is no such instigator to severe and incessant labour, as the minute
subdivision of landed property." But though their industry was uniformly in the highest degree
laudable, yet we could not help deploring the ignorant and unskilful manner in which this industry
is directed. The cultivation is still carried on after the miserable rotation which so justly
excited the indignation of Mr Young previous to the commencement of the revolution. Wheat,
barley or oats, sainfoin, lucerne or clover, and fallow, form the universal rotation. The green
crops are uniformly cut, and carried into the house for the cattle; as there are no inclosures,
there is no such thing as pasturage in the fields; and, except once on the banks of the Oise,
we never saw cattle pasturing in those parts of France. The small quantity of lucerne and sainfoin,
moreover, shews that there are but few herds in this part of France, and that meat, butter,
or cheese, form but a small part of the food of the peasantry. Normandy, in fact, is the only
pasture district of France, and the produce of the dairy there is principally intended for
the markets of Paris.

The soil is apparently excellent the whole way, composed of a loam in some places, mixed with
clay and sand, and extremely easily worked. Miserable fallows are often seen, on which the
sheep pick up a wretched subsistence--their lean sides and meagre limbs exhibit the effects
of the scanty food which they are able to obtain. The ploughing to us appeared excellent; but
we were unable to determine whether this was to be imputed to the skilfulness of the labourer,
or the light friable nature of the soil.

The property of the peasantry is not surrounded by any enclosures, nor are there any visible
marks whereby their separate boundaries could be determined by the eye of a stranger. The plain
exhibits one unbroken surface of corn or vineyards, and appears as if it all formed a part
of one boundless property. The vast expanse, however, is in fact subdivided into an infinite
number of small estates, the proprietors of which dwell in the aged boroughs through which
the road occasionally passes, and the extremities of which are marked by great stones fixed
on their ends, which are concealed from a passenger by the luxuriant corn in which they are
enveloped. This description applies to the grain districts in almost every part of France.

Although the condition of the peasantry has been greatly ameliorated, in consequence of the
division of landed property since the revolution, yet their increased wealth has not yet had
any influence on the state of their habitations, or the general comfort of their dwellings.
This rises from the nature of the contributions to which they were subjected during the despotic
governments which succeeded the first years of the revolution. These contributions were levied
by the governors of districts in the most arbitrary manner. The arrondissement was assessed
at a certain sum by the government, or a certain contribution for the support of the war was
imposed; and the sum was proportioned out among the different inhabitants, according to the
discretion of the collector. Any appearance of comfort, accordingly, among the peasantry, was
immediately followed by an increased contribution, and heavier taxes; and hence the people
never ventured to make any display of their increased wealth in their dwellings, or in any
article of their expenditure, which might attract, the notice of the collectors of the imperial
revenue. The burdens to which they were subjected, moreover, especially during the last years
of the war, were extremely severe, arising both from the enormous sums requisite to save their
sons from the conscription, and the heavy unequal contributions to which they were subjected.

From these causes, the division of landed property has not yet produced that striking amelioration
in the habits and present comfort of the peasantry, which generally attend this important measure;
and their wealth is rather hoarded up, after the eastern custom, for future, emergencies or
spent in the support of an early marriage; and never lavished in the fearless enjoyment of
present opulence.

In some respects, however, their appearance evidently bears the mark of the improvement in
their situation. Their dress is upon the whole neat and comfortable, covered in general by
a species of smock frock of a light blue colour, and exhibiting none of that miserable appearance
which Mr Young described as characterising the labouring classes during his time. They evidently
had the aspect of being well fed, and both in their figures and dress, afforded a striking
contrast to the wretched and decrepid inhabitants of the towns, in whom the real poverty of
the people, under the old regime, was still perceptible. In some of these towns, the appearance
of the beggars, their extraordinary figures, and tattered dress, exhibited a spectacle which
would have been inconceivably ludicrous, were it not for the melancholy ideas of abject poverty
which it necessarily conveyed.

About twenty miles from Soissons, the road passes through the magnificent forest of Villars
Coterets, which, in the luxuriance and extent of its woods, rivals the forest of Fontainbleau.
The place on which it stands is varied by rising grounds, and the distance exhibits beautiful
vistas of forest scenery and gentle swells, adorned by rich and varied foliage. It wants, however,
those grand and striking features, that mixture of rock and wood, of forest gloom and savage
scenery, which give so unrivalled a charm to the forest of Fontainbleau.

From Villars Coterets, the road lies over a high plateau, covered with grain, and exhibiting
more than ordinary barrenness and desolation. After passing over this dreary track, you arrive
at the edge of a steep declivity, which shelves down to the valley in which the Aisne wanders.
The appearance of this valley is extremely beautiful. It is sheltered by high ridges, or sloping
hills, covered with vineyards, orchards, and luxuriant woods: the little plain is studded with
villas and neat cottages, embosomed in trees, or surrounded by green meadows, in which the
winding course of the Aisne can at intervals be discerned. When we reached this spot, the sun
had newly risen; his level rays illuminated the white cottages with which the valley is sprinkled,
or glittered on the stream which winded through its plain; while the Gothic towers of Soissons
threw a long shadow over the green fields which surrounded its walls.

The descent to Soissons is through a declivity adorned by thriving gardens and neat cottages,
detached from each other, which afforded a pleasing contrast to the solitary, uninhabited,
though cultivated plains through which our route had previously lain. The Fauxbourgs of the
town were wholly in ruins, having been totally destroyed in the three assaults which they had
sustained during the previous campaign. The town itself is small, surrounded by decayed fortifications,
and containing nothing of note, except the Gothic spires, which bear testimony to its antiquity.

On leaving Soissons on the road to Laon, you go for two miles through the level plain in which
the town is situated; after which you begin to ascend the steep ridge by which its eastern
boundary is formed. It was on the summit of this ridge that Marshal Blucher's army was drawn
up, 80,000 strong, at the time when a detachment of his troops, under Count Langeron, was defending
Soissons against the French army. Immediately below this position, there is placed a small
village, which bore the marks of desperate fighting; all the houses were unroofed or shattered
in every part by musket balls; and many seemed to have been burnt during the struggles of which
it was formerly the theatre. There is an old castle a little higher up the ascent, which was
garrisoned by the allied troops; in the neighbourhood of which, we perceived numerous traces
of the immense bivouacs which had been made round its walls; particularly the bodies of horses
and oxen, which the Russians had left on the ground, and which the peasants had taken no pains
to remove.

From thence the road runs over a high level plateau, covered with miserable corn, or worse
fallows, and having an aspect of sterility very different from what we were accustomed to in
the rich provinces of France. In the midst of this dreary country, we beheld with delight several
deep ravines, formed by streams which fall into the Aisne, sheltered from the chilling blasts
that sweep along the high plains by which they are surrounded, the steep sides of which were
clothed with luxuriant woods, and in the bottom of which are placed many little farms and cottages,
which exhibited a perfect picture of rural beauty. Even here, however, the terrible effects
of war were clearly visible; these sequestered spots had been ravaged by the hostile armies;
and the ruined walls of the peasants dwellings presented a melancholy spectacle in the midst
of the profusion of beauty with which they were surrounded.

Half way between Soissons and Laon, is placed a solitary inn, at which Bonaparte stopt six
hours, after the disastrous termination of the battle of Laon. The people informed us, that
during this time, he was in a state of great agitation, wrote many different orders, which
he destroyed as fast as they were done, and covered the floor with the fragments of his writing.
Many Cossacks and Bashkirs had been quartered in this inn; the people, as usual, would not
allow them any good qualities, but often repeated, with evident chagrin--"Ils mangent comme
des diables; ils ont mangé tous les poulets."

The features of the country continue with little variety, till you begin to descend from the
high plateau, over which the road has passed into the wooded valley, in the centre of which
the hill and town of Laon are placed. The dreary aspect of this plateau, which, though cultivated
in every part, exhibited few traces of human habitation, was enlivened occasionally by herds
of pigs, of a lean and meagre breed, (followed by shepherds of the most grotesque appearance,)
wandering over the bare fallows, and seemingly reduced to the necessity of feeding on their
mother earth.

At the distance of six miles from Laon, the descent begins to the plain below, down the side
of a deep ravine, beautifully clothed with woods and vineyards. On the other side of this ravine
lies the plateau on which the battle of Craon was fought, whose level desolate surface seemed
a fit theatre for the struggle that was there maintained. At the bottom of the ravine the road
passes a long line of villages, surrounded with wood and gardens, which had been wholly ruined
by the operations of the armies; and among the neighbouring woods we were shewn numerous graves
both of French and Russian soldiers.

The approach to Laon lies through a great morass, covered in different places with low brushwood,
and intersected only by the narrow chaussèe on which the road is laid. The appearance of the
town is very striking; standing on a hill in the centre of a plain of 10 or 12 miles in diameter,
bounded on all sides by steep and wooded ridges. It is surrounded by an old wall, and some
decayed towers, and is adorned by some fine Gothic spires, whose apparent magnitude is much
increased by the elevated station on which they are placed.

In crossing this chaussèe, we were immediately struck with the extraordinary policy of Bonaparte,
in attacking the Russian army posted on the heights of Laon, where his only retreat was by
the narrow road we were traversing, which for several miles, ran through a morass, impassible
for carriages or artillery. This appeared the more wonderful, as the army he was attacking
was more numerous than his own, composed of admirable troops, and posted in a position where
little hopes of success could be entertained. It was an error of the same kind as he committed
at Leipsic, when he gave battle to the allied armies with a single bridge and a long defile
in his rear. It is laid down as one of the first maxims of war, by Frederic the Great, "never
to fight an enemy with a bridge or defile in your rear: as if you are defeated, the ruin of
the army must ensue in the confusion which the narrowness of the retreat creates." We cannot
suppose so great a general as Bonaparte to have been ignorant of so established a principle,
or a rule which common sense appears so obviously to dictate; it is more probable, that in
the confidence which the long habit of success had occasioned, he never contemplated the possibility
of a defeat, nor took any measures whatever for ensuring the safety of his army in the event
of a retreat. Be this as it may, it is certain that he fought at Laon with a morass, crossed
by a single chaussèe, in his rear, and that if he had been totally defeated, instead of being
repulsed in the action which then took place, his army must have been irretrievably ruined,
in the narrow line over which their retreat was of necessity conducted.

At the foot of the hill of Laon is placed a small village named Semilly, in which a desperate
conflict had evidently been maintained. The trees were riddled with the cannon-shot; the walls
were pierced for the fire of infantry, and the houses all in ruins, from the showers of balls
to which they had been exposed. The steep declivity of the hill itself was covered with gardens
and vineyards, in which the allied army had been posted during the continuance of the conflict;
but though three months had not elapsed since the period when they were filled with hostile
troops, no traces of desolation were to be seen, nor any thing which could indicate the occurrence
of any extraordinary events. The vines grew in the utmost luxuriance on the spot where columns
of infantry had so recently stood, and the garden cultivation appeared in all its neatness,
on the very ground which had been lately traversed by all the apparatus of modern warfare.
It would have been impossible for any one to have conceived, that the destruction they occasioned
could so soon have been repaired; or that the powers of Nature, in that genial climate, could
so rapidly have effaced all traces of the desolation which marked the track of human ambition.

The town of Laon itself contains little worthy of note; but the view from its ramparts, though
not extensive, was one of the most pleasing which we had seen in France. The little plain with
which the town is surrounded, is varied with woods, corn fields, and vineyards; the view is
closed on every side by a ridge of hills, which form a circular boundary round its farthest
extremity, while the foreground is finely marked by the decaying towers of the fortress, or
the dark foliage which shades its ramparts.

We walked over the field of battle with a degree of interest, which nothing but the memorable
operations of which it had formerly been the theatre, could possibly have excited. The accounts
of the action, which we received from the inhabitants of the town, and peasantry in its vicinity,
agreed perfectly with the official details which we had previously read; and although we could
not give an opinion with confidence on a military question, it certainly appeared to us, that
the operations of the French army had been ill combined. Indeed, some French officers with
whom we conversed on the next day, allowed that the battle had been ill fought, but, as usual,
laid all the blame upon Marmont. The main body of the French army, advancing by the road from
Soissons, attacked the villages of Ardon and Semilly in front of the town, on the centre of
Marshal Blucher's position, and his right wing, which was posted in the intersected ground
to the west of the town, on the morning of the 9th of March. These parts of the position were
occupied chiefly by the corps of Woronzoff and Buloff, and as they were very strong, no impression
was made on them, and the troops who defended them maintained themselves, without support from
the reserves, during the whole day. Late in the evening, the corps of Marmont, with a body
of cavalry under Arrighi, appeared on the road from Rheims, advancing apparently without any
communication or concert with the troops under Napoleon in person, (who were drawn up, for
the most part, in heavy columns, in the immediate vicinity of the Soissons road), and made
a furious attack on the extreme left of Marshal Blucher's position. The Marshal being satisfied
by this time, that the troops in position about the town were adequate to the defence of it
against Napoleon's force, was enabled to detach the whole corps of York, Kleist, and Sacken,
with the greater part of his cavalry, to oppose Marmont, who was instantly overthrown, cut
off from all communication with Napoleon, and driven across the Aisne, with the loss of four
or five thousand prisoners, and forty pieces of cannon. The only assistance which Napoleon
could give him in his retreat, was by renewing the attack on Ardon and Semilly, which he did
next morning, and maintained the action during the whole of the 10th, with no other effect,
than preventing the pursuit of Marmont from being followed up by the vigour which might otherwise
have been displayed by the Silesian army, notwithstanding the fatigues which they had undergone
at that time, during six weeks of continued marching and fighting.

The village of Athies, where the contest with Marmont's corps was decided, containing about
200 houses, had been completely burnt in the time of the action; and, when we were there, little
progress had been made in rebuilding it, but the inhabitants, then living in temporary sheds,
displayed their usual cheerfulness and equanimity; they were very loud in reprobation of the
military conduct of Marmont, and very anxious to convince us, that the French had been overwhelmed
only by great superiority of numbers, and that the allies might have completely cut off the
retreat of Marmont towards Rheims, if they had known how to profit by their success.

June 8th, we left Laon at sunrise, and took the road to St Quentin. For a few miles the road
passes through the plain in which the town is placed, after which it enters a pass, formed
between the sloping hills, by which its boundary is marked. These hills are, for the most part,
soft and green, like those on the banks of the Yarrow in Scotland, but varied, in some places,
by woods and orchards; and their lower declivities are every where covered by vineyards and
garden cultivation. Near their foot is placed the village of Cressy, which struck us as the
most comfortable we had seen in France. The houses are all neat and substantial, covered with
excellent slated roofs, and lighted by large windows, each surrounded by a little garden, and
exhibiting a degree of comfort rarely to be met with among the dwellings of the French peasantry.
On inquiry, we found that these peasants had long been proprietors of their houses, with the
gardens attached, and had each a vineyard on the adjoining heights. The effects of long established
property were here very apparent in the habits of comfort and industry, which, in process of
time, it had ingrafted upon the dispositions and wishes of the people.

After passing the ridge of little hills, through banks clothed with hanging woods, the road
descends into a little circular valley, surrounded on all sides by rising grounds, which presented
a scene of the most perfect rural beauty. The upper part of the hills were covered with luxuriant
woods, whose flowing outline suited the expression of softness and repose by which the scene
was distinguished; on the declivities below the wood, the vineyards, gardens, and fruit-trees,
covered the sunny banks which descended into the plain, while the lower part of the valley
was filled with a village, embosomed in fruit-trees, ornamented only by a simple spire. It
is impossible for language to convey an adequate idea of the beauty of this exquisite scene;
it united the interest of romantic scenery with the charm of cultivated nature, and seemed
placed in this sequestered valley, to combine all that was delightful in rural life. When we
first beheld it, the sun was newly risen; his increasing rays threw a soft light over the wooded
hills, and illuminated the summit of the village spire; the grass and the vines were still
glittering in the morning dew, and the songs of the peasants were heard on all sides, cheering
the beginning of their early labour. The marks of cultivation harmonized with the expression
by which the scene was characterised; they were emblematic only of human happiness, and had
a tendency to induce the momentary belief, that in this sequestered spot the human species
shared in the fulness of universal joy.

As we descended into the valley, we perceived a great chateau near the western extremity of
the village of Foudrain, which appeared still to be inhabited, and had none of the appearance
of decay by which all that we had hitherto seen were distinguished. It belongs to the Chevalier
Brancas, who is proprietor of this and seven or eight of the adjoining villages, and whose
estates extend over a great part of the surrounding country. On enquiry, we found that this
great proprietor had, long before the revolution, pursued a most enlightened and indulgent
conduct towards his peasantry, giving them leases of their houses and gardens of 20 or 30 years,
and never removing any even at the expiration of that period, if their conduct had been industrious
during its continuance. The good effects of this liberal policy have appeared in the most striking
manner, not only in the increased industry and enlarged wealth of the tenants; but in the moderate,
loyal conduct which they pursued, during the eventful period of the revolution. The farmers
on this estate are some of the richest in France; many being possessed of a capital of 15,000
or 16,000 francs, (from £. 750 to £. 800 Sterling,) a very large sum in that country, and amply
sufficient for the management of the farms which they possessed. Their houses are neat and
comfortable in the most remarkable degree, and the farm-steadings as extensive and substantial
as in the most improved districts of England. The ground is cultivated with the utmost care,
and the industry of the peasants is conspicuous in every part of agricultural management. It
was impossible, in comparing these prosperous dwellings with the decayed villages in most other
parts of the country, not to discern, in the clearest manner, the salutary influence of individual
security upon the labouring classes; and the tendency which the certainty of enjoying the fruits
of their labour has, not merely in increasing their present industry, but awakening those wishes
of improvement, and engendering those habits of comfort; which are the only true foundation
of public happiness.

During the revolution, when the peasants of all the adjoining estates violently dispossessed
their landlords of their property; when every adjoining chateau exhibited a scene of desolation
and ruin; the peasants of this estate were remarkable for their moderate and steady conduct;
so far from themselves pillaging their seigneur, they formed a league for his defence "--Ils
l'ont soutenùs," as they themselves expressed it--and he continued throughout, and is now in
the quiet possession of his great estate. It is not perhaps going too far to say, that had
the peasants throughout the country been treated with the same indulgence, and suffered to
enjoy the same property, as in this delightful district, France would have been spared from
all the horrors and all the sufferings of her revolution.

From Foudrain to La Fere, the country is, for the most part, flat; and the road, which is shaded
by lofty trees, skirts the edge of a great forest, which stretches as far as the eye can reach
to the left; and joins with the forest of Villars Coterets. For many miles the road is bordered
by fruit-trees, and the cottages have a most comfortable thriving appearance. To St Quentin
the face of the country is flat, though the ridge over which you pass is high; the villages
have an appearance of progress and opulence about them, which is rarely to be met with in other
parts of France. All the peasantry carry on manufactures in their own houses; and probably
their gains are very considerable, as their houses are much more neat and comfortable than
in districts which are solely agricultural, and their dress bears the appearance of considerable
wealth. The cultivation in the open country still continues, in general, to be wheat, barley,
clover, and fallow; but the approach to French Flanders is very obvious, both from the increased
quantity of rye under cultivation, from the occasional fields of beans which are to be met
with, and from the numbers of potatoes and other vegetables which are to be discerned round
the immediate vicinity of the villages. In these villages the houses are white-washed, surrounded
by gardens, and have a smiling aspect.

La Fere is a small town, surrounded with trifling fortifications, containing a considerable
arsenal of artillery. We were much amused, while there, with the spectacle which the market
exhibited. A great concourse of people had been collected from all quarters, to purchase a
number of artillery horses which the government had exposed at a low price, to indemnify the
people for the losses they had sustained during the continuance of the war. The crowds of grotesque
figures which thronged the streets, the picturesque appearance of the horses that were exposed
to sale, and the fierce martial aspect of the grenadiers of the old guard, a detachment of
whom were quartered in the town, rendered this scene truly characteristic of the French people.

St Quentin is a neat, clean, and thriving town, resembling, both in the forms of the houses,
and the opulence of the middling classes, the better sort of the country towns in England.
It is the seat of considerable manufactures, which throve amazingly under the imperial government,
in consequence of the exclusion of the English commodities during the revolutionary wars. The
linen manufacture is the staple branch of industry, and affords employment to the peasantry
in their own houses, in every direction in the surrounding country, which is probably the cause
of the thriving prosperous appearance by which they are distinguished. The great church of
St Quentin, though not built in fine proportions, is striking, from the coloured glass of its
windows, and its great dimensions.

The French cultivation continues without any other change than the increased quantity of rye
in the fields, and vegetables round the cottages, to the frontier of French Flanders. Still
the country exhibits one unbroken sheet of corn and fallow; no inclosures are to be seen, and
little wood varies the uniformity of the prospect. In crossing a high ridge which separates
St Quentin from Cambray, the road passes over the great canal from Antwerp to Paris, which
is here carried for many miles through a tunnel under ground. This great work was commenced
under the administration of M. Turgot, but it was not completed till the time of Bonaparte,
who employed in it great numbers of the prisoners whom he had taken in Spain. The magnitude
of the undertaking may be judged of from the immense depth of the hollow which was cut for
it, previous to the commencement of the tunnel, which is so great, that the canal, when seen
from the top, has the appearance of a little stream. The course of the tunnel is marked on
the surface of the ground by a line of chalky soil, which is spread above its centre, and which
can be seen as far as the eye can reach, stretching over the vast ridge by which the country
is traversed.

At the distance of three miles from the town of Cambray, the road crosses the ancient frontiers
of French Flanders. We had long been looking for this transition, to discover if it still exhibited
the striking change described by Arthur Young, "between the effects of the despotism of old
France, which depressed agriculture, and the free spirit of the Burgundian provinces, which
cherished and protected it." No sooner had we crossed the old line of demarcation between the
French and Flemish provinces, than we were immediately struck with the difference, both in
the aspect of the country, the mode of cultivation, and the condition of the people. The features
of the landscape assume a totally different aspect; the straight roads, the clipt elms, the
boundless plains of France are no longer to be seen; and in their place succeeds a thickly
wooded soil and cultivated country. The number of villages is infinitely increased; the village
spires rise above the woods in every direction, to mark the antiquity and the extent of the
population: the houses of the peasants are detached from each other, and surrounded with fruit
trees, or gardens kept in the neatest order, and all the features of the landscape indicate
the long established prosperity by which the country has been distinguished.

Nor is the difference less striking in the mode of cultivation which is purified. Fallows,
so common in France, almost universally disappear; and in their place, numerous crops of beans,
pease, potatoes, carrots and endive, are to be met with. In the cultivation of these crops
manual labour is universally employed; and the mode of cultivation is precisely that which
is carried on in garden husbandry. The crops are uniformly laid out in small patches of an
acre or thereby to each species of vegetable; which, combined with the extreme minuteness of
the cultivation, gives the country under tillage the appearance of a great kitchen garden.
This singular practice, which is universal in Flanders, is probably owing to the great use
of the manual labour in the operations of agriculture. Rye is very much cultivated, and forms
the staple food of the peasantry. The crops of wheat, barley, oats, rye, and clover, struck
us as exceedingly heavy, but not nearly so clean as those of a similar description in the best
agricultural districts of our own country.

But it is principally in the condition, manners, and comfort of the people, that the difference
between the French and Flemish provinces consists. Every thing connected with the lower orders,
indicates the influence of long-established prosperity, and the prevalence of habits produced
by the uninterrupted enjoyment of individual opulence. The population of Flanders, both French
and Austrian, is perfectly astonishing; the villages form an almost uninterrupted line through
the country; the small towns are as numerous as villages in other parts of the world, and seem
to contain an extensive and comfortable population. These small towns are particularly remarkable
for the number and opulence of the middling classes, resembling in this, as well as other respects,
the flourishing boroughs of Yorkshire and Kent, and affording a most striking contrast to those
of a very opposite description, which we had recently passed through in France.

The cottages of the peasantry, both in the villages and the open country, are in the highest
degree, neat, dean, and comfortable; built for the most part of brick, and slated in the roof;
nowhere exhibiting the slightest symptoms of dilapidation. These houses have almost all a garden
attached to them, in the cultivation of which, the poor people display, not only extreme industry,
but a degree of taste superior to what might be expected from their condition in life: The
inside bore the marks of great comfort, both from the cleanness which every where prevailed,
and the costly nature of the furniture with which they were filled. Nothing could be more pleasing
than the appearance of the windows, every where in the best repair, large and capacious, and
furnished with shutters on the outside, painted green, which, together with the bright whiteness
of the walls, gave the whole the appearance of buildings destined for ornamental purposes,
rather than the abode of the lower orders of the people.

Cambray is a neat comfortable town, containing 15,000 inhabitants, and surrounded by fortifications
in tolerable repair, but which, when we passed them, were not armed. It was once celebrated
for its magnificent cathedral, reckoned the finest in France; but a few ruins of this great
building alone have escaped the fury of the people, during the commencement of the revolution.
These trifling remains, however, were sufficient to convey some idea of the beautiful proportions
in which the whole had been constructed; they resembled much the finest part of Dryburgh Abbey,
in Scotland. The modern cathedral, built near the site of the old one, has a mean exterior,
but possesses considerable splendour in the inside.

From Cambray to Valenciennes, the features of the country continue the same as those we have
just described. The surface of the ground is still flat, and cultivated in every part with
the utmost care, in the garden style of husbandry. We were particularly struck, in this district,
by the quantity of drilled crops, the admirable order in which they are kept, and the vast
numbers of people, both men, women, and children, who appeared engaged in their cultivation.
Nothing, indeed, but the great demand for labour, occasioned by the use of manual labour in
husbandry, could have produced, or could support, the great population by which Flanders has
always been distinguished.

Valenciennes, situated in one of the finest districts of Flanders, is likewise a well built,
comfortable town, built entirely of brick, and surrounded by magnificent fortifications, in
admirable repair. As this was the first well fortified town which we had seen, it was to us
a matter of no ordinary interest, which was encreased by the remembrance of the celebrated
siege which it had undergone from the English army at the commencement of the revolutionary
war. We were shewn the point at which the English forced their entrance; and the numberless
marks of cannon-balls which their artillery had occasioned during the siege were still uneffaced.
Though the modern fortifications, built after the model of Vauban, have not the romantic or
picturesque aspect which belongs to the aged towers of Montreuil, Abbeville, or Laon, or the
more ruinous walls of the town of Conway in Wales, yet they present a pleasing spectacle, arising
partly from the regularity of the forms themselves, and partly from the association with which
they are connected.

From Valenciennes to Mons, the country is still flat, though the cultivation and the aspect
of the scene is somewhat varied from what had been exhibited by the districts of French Flanders,
through which we had previously passed. It lies lower, and appears more subject to inundation:
Ditches appear at intervals, filled with water, and extensive meadows are to be seen, covered
with rank and luxuriant grass. The cultivation of grain and green crops is less frequent, and
in their stead, vast tracks of rich pasture cover the face of the country. Much wood is to
be seen on all sides, often of great dimensions; and the population appears still as great
as before. The villages succeed one another so fast, as almost to form a continued street;
and the numberless spires which rise over the woods in every direction, prove that this number
of inhabitants extends over the whole country. The cottages still continue neat and comfortable;
not picturesque to a painter's eye, but exhibiting the more delightful appearance of individual
prosperity. Their beauty is much increased by the quantity of wood, or the variety of fruit-trees,
with which the villages are interspersed. There are many coal-pits in this country, and a great
deal of carriage of this valuable mineral on the principal roads. They present a scene of infinitely
more bustle and activity than the richest parts of France. We met a great number of waggons,
harnessed and equipped like those in England; and the numbers of carriages reminded us, in
some degree, of the extraordinary appearance, in this respect, which the approach to our own
capital presents; a state of things widely different from the desolate chaussèes which the
interior of France exhibits. Every thing in the small towns and villages bore the marks of
activity, industry, and increasing prosperity. We passed with much interest over the celebrated
field of battle of Jemappe, where the remains of Austrian redoubts are still visible.

Mons, the frontier town of Austrian Flanders, was once a place of great strength, and underwent
a dreadful siege during the wars of the Duke of Marlborough; but its ramparts are now dismantled,
according to the ruinous policy of Joseph II. The square in the town is large, and has a striking
appearance, owing to the picturesque and varied forms of the houses and public buildings of
which it is formed. From the summit of the great steeple, to which you are conducted by a stair
of 353 steps, there is a magnificent view over the adjacent country to a great distance. It
is for the most part green, owing to the immense quantity of land under pasturage, and clothed
in every direction with extensive woods. At a considerable distance we were shewn the woods
and heights of Malplaquet, the scene of one of the Duke of Marlborough's great victories, of
which the people still spoke, as if it had been one of the recent occurrences of the war. This
town, when we visited it, was completely filled with Prussian and Saxon troops, whose intrepid
martial appearance bespoke that undaunted character by which they have been distinguished in
the memorable actions of which this country has since been the theatre.

On leaving Mons, on the road to Brussels, you quit the low swampy plain in which the town is
situated, and ascend a gentle hill, clothed with wood, in the openings of which many beautiful
views of the spires of the city are to be seen. The hill itself is composed entirely of sand,
and would be reckoned a rising ground in most other countries, but it forms a pleasing variety
to the level plains of Flanders. From thence to Brussels, a distance of 35 miles, the scenery
is beautiful in the greatest degree. Unlike the flat surface which prevails over most parts
of this country, it is charmingly varied by hills and vallies, adorned by beautiful woods,
whose disposition resembles rather that of trees in a gentleman's park, than what usually occurs
in an agricultural country. The cottages, over the whole of this district, are particularly
pleasing; every where white-washed, clean and comfortable; half hid by a profusion of fruit-trees,
or the aged stems of elm and ash.

Brain-le-Compte, Halle, and a number of smaller towns through which the road passes, are distinguished
by the neatness of the houses, and the number and opulence of the middling classes of society.
The vallies are admirably cultivated in agricultural or garden husbandry, and interspersed
with numerous cottages; the gentle slopes are laid out in grass or pasture, and the uplands
clothed with luxuriant woods. Upon the whole, the scenery between Mons and Brussels was the
most delightful we had ever seen of a similar description, both from the richness and extent
of the cultivation; the appearance of public and private property, which was unceasingly exhibited;
the beautiful variety of the ground, and the charming disposition of the woods which terminate
the view. The village spires, whose summits rise above the distant woods in every direction,
increased the effect which the objects of nature were fitted to produce, both from the beauty
of their forms themselves, and the pleasing reflections which they awaken in the mind.

We passed through this beautiful country in a fine summer evening in the middle of June. The
heat of the day had passed: The shades of evening were beginning to spread over the lowland
country; the forest of Soignies was still illuminated by the glow of the setting sun, while
his level rays shed a peaceful light over the woods which skirt the field of WATERLOO. We little
thought that the scene, which was now expressive only of rest and happiness, should hereafter
be the theatre of mortal combat: that the same sun which seemed now to set amid the blessings
of a grateful world, should so soon illuminate a field of agony and death; and that the ground
which we now trod with no other feelings than admiration for the beauty of nature, was destined
to become the field of deathless glory to the British name.

The state of agriculture from Cambray to Brussels, both in French and Austrian Flanders, is
admirable. No fallows are any where to be seen, and in their place, green crops, of which beans,
peas, carrots, &c. form the principal part. These green crops are kept very clean, and all
worked by the spade or hoe, which furnishes employment to the immense population which is diffused
over the country. Crops of rye, which, when we passed them in the middle of June, were in full
ear, are every where very common; indeed, rye bread seems to be the staple food of the peasantry.
Much wheat, barley, and oats, are also cultivated, with a great deal of sainfoin and clover,
which is never pastured, but cut, and carried green into the stalls of the cattle. No inclosures
are to be seen, except round the orchards and gardens which surround the villages; and, indeed,
fences would be a useless waste of ground in a country where every corner is valuable, and
no cattle are ever to be seen in the open fields. The soil seemed to be excellent throughout
the whole country; sometimes sandy, and sometimes, a rich loam; and the crop, both of corn,
beans, and grass, heavy and luxuriant. With the exception, however, of the grain crops, which
are generally drilled, the fields are not nearly so clean as in the best parts of England.

The farm steadings and implements of husbandry in all parts of Flanders, are greatly superior
to those in France. The waggons are not only more numerous on the roads, but greatly neater
in their construction than in France; the ploughs are of a better construction, and the farm
offices both more extensive, and in better repair. Every thing, in short, indicated a much
more improved and opulent class of agriculturists, and a country in which the fundamental expenses
of cultivation had long been incurred.

Near Cambray, the wages of labour are one franc a-day. Near Valenciennes, and from that to
Mons, they are from 1 franc to 25 sous, that is, from 10d. to 12-1/2d. From Mons to Brussels,
and round that town, from 1 franc to 30 sous, that is, from 10d. to 15d. The rent of land was
stated in French Flanders at 20 francs, and the price 1000 francs per marcoti; and from Valenciennes
to Mons, from 35 to 50 francs; but we could never accurately ascertain what proportion a marcoti
bore to the English acre.

The size of the farms is exceedingly various in the districts of Flanders which we have visited.
From Cambray to Valenciennes, they were called from 200 to 300 marcotis; but from Mons to Brussels,
an exceedingly well-cultivated district, they seldom exceed from 50 to 100 marcotis; which,
as far as we could judge, was not above from 25 to 50 acres. That the size of the farms is
in general exceedingly small, appears obviously from the immense number of farm-houses which
are every where to be seen. The course and mode of cultivation appears to be precisely the
same on the great and the small farms.

The state of the people, both in French and Austrian Flanders, was most exceedingly comfortable.
Not the smallest traces of dirt are to be seen, either in the exterior or the interior of the
peasants dwellings. Their dress, as in France, is in general neat and substantial, covered
with a light blue smock-frock, and without any appearance of abject want. The women in general
appeared handsome, and very well clad. Every thing, in short, bespoke a rich, prosperous, and
happy population.

BRUSSELS is a large, populous, and in many respects a handsome town. It stands upon the side
of a hill, the lower part being the old town, and the higher the fashionable quarter. Near
the centre of the old town is placed a square of considerable size, surrounded by high antiquated
buildings of a most remarkable construction; and the Hotel de Ville, which occupies nearly
one of its sides, is ornamented by a high Gothic spire of the lightest form, and the most exquisite
proportions. The Cathedral is large, and has two massy towers in front; but the effect of the
interior, which would otherwise be very grand, from its immense size, is much injured by statues
affixed to the pillars, and an intermixture of red and white colours, with which the walls
are painted. In this Cathedral, as well as in the churches throughout Flanders which we visited,
we were much struck by the numbers of people who attended service, and the earnestness with
which they seemed to participate in religious duty;--a spectacle which was the more impressive,
from the levity or negligence with which we had been accustomed to see similar services attended
in France.

The Parc, which is an immense square of splendid buildings, inclosing a great space, covered
with fine timber, is probably the most magnificent square in Europe. The Royal Palace, and
all the houses of the nobility, are here situated. There is nothing of the kind, either in
Paris or London, which can be compared with this square, either in extent, the beauty of the
private houses, or the richness and variety of the woods.

At Brussels, we saw 1500 British troops on parade in the great square. We were particularly
struck with the number and brilliant appearance of the officers. It would be going too far
to say, that they understood their duty better than those of the allied armies; but they unquestionably
have infinitely more of the appearance and manners of gentlemen. The proportion of officers
to privates appeared much greater than in the other European armies; but the common soldiers
had not nearly so sun-burnt; weather-beaten an appearance. Among the British troops, the Highlanders
resembled most nearly the swarthy aspect of the foreign soldiers. The discipline of these troops
was admirable; they were much beloved by the inhabitants, who recounted with delight numerous
instances of their humanity and moderation. In this respect they formed a striking contrast
to the Prussians, whose abuses and voracity were uniformly spoken of in terms of severe reprobation.

The ramparts at Brussels, especially in the upper parts of the town, are planted with trees,
and afford a delightful walk, commanding an extensive view over the adjacent country. The favourite
promenade at Brussels, however, is the Allee Verte, situated two miles from the town, on the
road to Antwerp, which forms a drive of two miles in length, under the shade of lofty trees.
It was filled, when we saw it, with numerous parties of officers of all nations, principally
German and British; and we could not help observing, how much more brilliant the appearance
of our own countrymen was, than that of their brethren in any other service. Indeed they are
taken from a different class of society: in the continental states, men, from inferior situations,
enter the army with a view to obtain a subsistence; in the British service alone, men of rank
and fortune leave the enjoyment and opulence of peaceful life, to share in the toils and the
hardships of war.

The Chateau of Lacken, now the royal dwelling, stands on an eminence in the vicinity of Brussels,
commanding a delightful view over the environs of the city. There are few views in Flanders
so magnificent as that from the summit of this palace. It is surrounded by beautiful gardens
and shrubberies, laid out in the English style, and arranged with much taste.

The vicinity of Brussels is so much clothed with wood, as to resemble, when seen from the spires
of the city, a continued forest. To the south-west, indeed, the whole country is covered with
the vast forest of Soignies, clothing a range of gentle hills, which stretch as far as the
field of Waterloo. The varieties of wood scenery which it exhibits, are exceedingly beautiful;
and in many places, the oaks grow to an immense size, and present the most picturesque appearance.
It was from this forest that Bonaparte obtained the timber for his great naval arsenal at Antwerp.

To the south of Brussels, in the direction of Liege, and in the environs of that town, the
country is covered with innumerable cottages, in the neatest order, inhabited by manufacturers,
who carry on, in their own houses, the fabrics for which that city is so celebrated. These
cottagers have all their gardens and houses in property; and the appearance of prosperity,
which their dwellings uniformly exhibit, as well as the neatness of their dress, and the costly
nature of their fare, demonstrate the salutary influence, which this intermixture of manufacturing
and agricultural occupation is fitted to have on the character and habits of the lower orders
of society. It resembles, in this particular, the state of the people in the West Riding of
Yorkshire, and in the beautiful scenes of the vale of Gloucester.

In the neighbourhood of Brussels, the condition of the peasantry appeared exceedingly comfortable.
Their neat gardens, their substantial dwellings, their comfortable dress, indicated here, as
elsewhere in Flanders, the effects of d and general prosperity. Most of these houses and gardens
belong in property to the peasants; others are hired from the proprietors of the ground; but
when this is the case, they generally have the advantage of a long lease. The peasants complained,
in the bitterest terms, of the taxes and contributions of the French, stating that the public
burdens had been more than quadrupled since they were separated from the Austrian Government,
of which they still spoke in terms of affection and regret. The impot fonciere, or land-tax,
under the French, amounted to one-fifth of the rent, or 20 per cent. The wages of labour were
from 15 sous to one franc a-day; but the labourer dined with the farmer, his employer. Most
of the land was laid out in garden cultivation, and every where tilled with the utmost care.
The soil appeared rich and friable; and the crops, both of agricultural and garden produce,
were extremely heavy. The rent was stated as varying from 60 to 150 francs journatier, which
appeared to be about three-fourths of an acre.

One thing struck us extremely in the condition of the people, both here and in other parts
of Flanders--the sumptuous fare on which they live. It is a common thing to see artisans and
mechanics sitting down to a dinner, at a table d'hôte, of ten or twelve dishes; such a dinner
as would be esteemed excellent living in England. The lower orders of the people, the day labourers
and peasants, seemed to live, generally speaking, in a very comfortable manner. Vegetables
form a large portion of their food, and they are raised in large quantities, and great perfection,
in all parts of the country.

On leaving Brussels, we took the road to Malines and Antwerp. The surface of the ground the
whole way is perfectly flat, and much intersected by canals, on whose banks much rich pasture
is to be seen. For the first six miles, the road is varied by chateaus and villas, laid out
in the stiff antiquated style of French gardening. The cultivation between Brussels and Malines
is all conducted in the garden style, and with the most incomparable neatness; but the cottages
are formed of wood and mud, and exhibited more symptoms of dilapidation, than in any other
part of the country which we had seen. Whether this was the consequence of the materials of
which they are built, or was the result of some local institution, we were unable to determine.

We saw a body of 3000 Prussian landwehr enter Brussels, shortly before we left the city. The
appearance of these men was very striking. They had just terminated a march of 14 miles, under
a burning sun, and were all covered with dust and sweat. Notwithstanding the military service
in which they had been engaged, they still bore the appearance of their country occupations;
their sun-burnt faces, their rugged features, and massy limbs, bespoke the life of laborious
industry to which they had been habituated. They wore an uniform coat or frock, a military
cap, and their arms and accoutrements were in the most admirable order; but in other respects,
their dress was no other than what they had worn at home. The sight of these brave men told,
in stronger language than words could convey, the grievous oppression to which Prussia had
been subjected, and the unexampled valour with which her people had risen against the iron
yoke of French dominion. They were not regular soldiers, raised for the ordinary service of
the state, and arrayed in the costume of military life; they were not men of a separate profession,
maintained by government for the purposes of defence; they were the people of the country,
roused from their peaceful employments by the sense of public danger, and animated by the heroic
determination to avenge the sufferings of their native land. The young were there, whose limbs
were yet unequal to the weight of the arms which they had to bear; the aged were there, whose
strength had been weakened by a life of labour and care; all, of whatever rank or station,
marched alike in the ranks which their valour and their patriotism had formed. Their appearance
suited the sacred cause in which they had been engaged, and marked the magnitude of the efforts
which their country had made. They were still, in some measure, in the garb of rural life,
but the determination of their step, the soldier-like regularity of their motions, and the
enthusiastic expression of their countenances, indicated the unconquerable spirit by which
they had been animated, and told the greatness of the sufferings which had at last awakened

    "The might that slumbers in a peasant's arm."

There is no spectacle in the moral history of mankind more interesting or more sublime, than
that which was exhibited by the people of the north of Germany in the last war. During the
progress of the disastrous wars which succeeded the French revolution, the states of Germany
experienced all the miseries of protracted warfare, and all the degradation of conquered power;
but amidst the sufferings and humiliation to which they were subjected, the might of Germany
was concentrating its power; the enthusiasm of her people was animating the soldier's courage,
and the virtue of her inhabitants was sanctifying the soldier's cause: and when at last the
hour of retribution arrived, when the sufferings of twenty years were to be revenged, and the
disgrace of twenty years was to be effaced; it was by the energy of her people that these sufferings
were revenged, and by the sacrifices of her people, that these victories were obtained. Crushed
as they had been beneath the yoke of foreign dominion; shackled as they were by the fetters
of foreign power, and unprotected as they long continued to be from the ravages of hostile
revenge; the people of PRUSSIA boldly threw off the yoke, and hesitated not to encounter all
the fury of imperial ambition, that they might redeem the glory which their ancestors had acquired,
and defend the land which their forefathers had preserved. While Austria yet hung in doubt
between the contending Powers; while the fate of the civilized world was yet pending on the
shores of the Vistula, the whole body of the Prussian people flew to arms; they left their
homes, their families, and all that was dear to them, without provision, and without defence:
they trusted in God alone, and in the justice of their cause. This holy enthusiasm supported
them in many an hour of difficulty and of danger, when they were left to its support alone;
it animated them in the bloody field of Juterbock, and overthrew their enemies on the banks
of the Katzback; it burned in the soldier's breast under the walls of Leipsic, and sustained
the soldier's fortitude in the plains of Vauchamp: it terminated not till it had planted the
Prussian eagle victorious on the ruins of that power, which had affected to despise the efforts
of the Prussian people.

The town of Malines is exceedingly neat, and ornamented by a great tower, of heavy architecture,
producing a striking effect from every part of the adjoining country. The interior of the church,
like that of all the other Catholic churches, is impressive to an English spectator, from the
effect of its vast dimensions. The town was entirely filled by Prussian soldiers, and landwehr
of the Prussian corps d'armee of Bulow, who went through their evolutions in the exactest discipline.

From Malines to Antwerp the country is under a higher system of management, than in any other
district of Flanders which we had seen. It is thickly planted with trees, insomuch as, from
an eminence, to have the appearance of a continued forest. The landscape scenery, seen through
the openings of the wood, and generally terminating in a village spire, is exceedingly beautiful,
and reminded us of the scenes in Waterloo's engravings. Great quantities of potatoes and beans
are to be seen in the fields, which are kept in the highest state of cultivation. The number
of villages is extremely great; but the people, though so numerous, had all the appearance
of being in a prosperous and happy condition.

On approaching Antwerp, the trees and houses are all cut down, to give room for the fire of
the cannon-shot from the ramparts of the fortress. We passed over this desolated space in the
evening, soon after sunset, when the spires of the city had a beautiful effect on the fading
colours of the western sky. High over all rose the spire of the cathedral, a most beautiful
piece of the lightest Gothic, of immense height, and the most exquisite proportions. Though
this building has stood for seven centuries, the carving of the pinnacles, and the finishing
of the ornaments, are at this moment as perfect as the day they were formed; and when seen
in shadow on an evening sky, present a spectacle which combines all that is majestic and graceful
in Gothic architecture.

After passing through the numerous gates, and over the multiplied bridges which surround this
fortress, we found ourselves in the interior of Antwerp; a city of great interest, in consequence
of the warlike preparations of which it had been the theatre, and the importance which had
been attached to it by both parties in the recent contest. It is an extensive old city, evidently
formed for a much more extensive commerce than it has now for a long period enjoyed. The form
of the houses is singular, grotesque and irregular, offering at every turn the most picturesque
forms to a painter's eye. We were soon conducted to the famous dockyard, constructed by Bonaparte,
which had been the source of so much uneasiness to this country; and could not help being surprised
at the smallness of the means which he had been able to obtain for the overthrow of our naval
power. The docks did not appear to us at all large; but they are very deep, and during the
siege, by the English and Prussian troops, contained 20 ships of the line, besides 14 frigates.
When we saw them they were lying in the Scheldt, and being all within two miles of each other,
presented a very magnificent spectacle.

In the arsenal were 14 ships of the line on the stocks, of which seven were of 120 guns; but
these vessels were all demolished except one, shortly after we left them, in virtue of an article
in the treaty of Paris. Bonaparte had for long been exerting himself to the utmost to form
a great naval depot at Antwerp; he had not only fortified the town in the strongest possible
manner, but collected immense quantities of timber and other naval stores for the equipment
of a powerful fleet. The ships first built, however, had been formed of wood, which was so
ill seasoned, that, ever since their construction, above 200 carpenters had been employed annually
to repair the beams which were going to decay.

In the citadel, which is a beautiful fortification in the finest order, we conversed with various
English soldiers who had been in the attack on Bergen-op-Zoom, of which they all spoke in terms
of the utmost horror. Its failure they ascribed not to any error in the plan of attack, which
they all agreed was most skilfully combined, but to a variety of circumstances which thwarted
the attack, after its success appeared to have been certain. Our troops, they said, went round
the ramparts, and carried every battery; but neglecting to spike the guns, the French came
behind them, and turned the guns they had recently captured against themselves. Much also was
attributed to the hesitation occasioned by the death of the principal officers, and the unfortunate
effect of the discovery of some spirit cellars, from which the soldiers could not be restrained.
We were much gratified, by hearing the warm and enthusiastic manner in which even the private
soldiers spoke of their gallant commander, Sir Thomas Graham; While we admired the frank, open
and independent spirit which these English soldiers in garrison at Antwerp evinced, we could
not help observing, that they did not converse on military matters with nearly the same intelligence,
or evince the same reflection on the manœuvres of war, as those of the French imperial guard,
with whom we had spoken in a former part of our journey.

Though such extensive naval preparations had been going forward for years at Antwerp, there
was not the slightest appearance of bustle at activity in the streets, or on the quays of the
city. These were as deserted, as if Antwerp had been reduced to a fishing village, indicating,
in the strongest manner, that nothing but the habits of commerce, and the command of the seas,
can nurse that body of active seamen, who form the only foundation of naval power.

There is a fine picture, by Oels, in the church of St Paul's at Antwerp; but the church itself
is built in the most barbarous taste. The cathedral is a most magnificent building, both in
the outside and inside; and its spire, which is 460 feet in height, is probably the finest
specimen of light Gothic in the world. Its immense aisles were filled at every hour of the
day, by numbers of people, who seemed to join in the service with sincere devotion, and exhibited
the example of a country, in which religious feeling was generally diffused among the people--which
formed a striking contrast to the utter indifference to these subjects which universally prevails
in France.

It was not a mere vain threat on the part of Napoleon, that he would burn the English manufactures.
We were informed at Antwerp by eye-witnesses, that they had seen £. 90,000 worth of English
goods burnt at once in the great square of that city; all of which had been bought and paid
for by the Flemish merchants. The people then spoke in terms of great sorrow, of the ruin which
this barbarous policy had brought upon the people of the countries in which it was carried
into effect.

In the vicinity of Antwerp, we walked over the Counter Dyke of Couvestein, which was the scene
of such desperate conflicts between the army of the Prince of Parma, and the troops of the
United Provinces, who were advancing to the relief of Antwerp. The interest arising from the
remembrance of this memorable struggle, was increased by the narrowness of the ground on which
the action was maintained, being a long dyke running across the low country which borders the
banks of the Scheldt near Fort Lillo, and which alone of all the surrounding country, at the
time of the action, was not immersed in water. Every foot, therefore, of the ground of this
dyke which we trod, must have been the spot on which a desperate struggle had been maintained.
In casting our eyes back to the distant spires of the city of Antwerp, we could not help entering
for an instant, into the feelings of the people who were then besieged; and remembering that
these spires, which now rose so beautifully on the distant horizon, were then crowded with
people, who awaited with dreadful anxiety, in the issue of the action which was then pending,
the future fate of themselves and their children.

To those who take an interest in the delightful study of political economy, and who have examined
the condition of the people in different countries, with a view to discover the causes of their
welfare or their suffering, there is no spectacle so interesting as that which the situation
of the people in Flanders affords. The country is uniformly populous in the extreme; go where
you will, you every where meet with the marks of a dense population; yet no where are the symptoms
of general misery to be found; no where does the principle of population seem to press beyond
the limits assigned for the comfortable maintenance of the human species. Flanders has exhibited,
for centuries, the instance of a numerous, dense, and happy population. It would perhaps not
be unreasonable to conclude, from this circumstance, that the doctrines now generally admitted
in regard to the increase of the human species have been received with too little examination.
Man possesses in himself the principles requisite for the regulation of the increase of the
numbers of mankind; and where the influence of government does not interfere with their operation,
they are sufficient to regulate the progress of population according to the interest and welfare
of all classes of the people.

END OF VOLUME FIRST.

EDINBURGH: Printed by JOHN PILLANS, James's Court.

VOL. II.

SECOND EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED.

CHAPTER I.

JOURNEY TO AIX.

IT was thought advisable, by the gentleman who is now about to commence his journal, to avoid
making many remarks on the state of the country, or the manners of the inhabitants, until he
should have remained fixed for a few months in France. In no country is it so difficult as
there, to obtain information regarding the most interesting points, whether commerce, manufactures,
agriculture, manners, or religion; and this arises from the multitude of people of all descriptions,
who are willing, and who at least appear able, to afford you information. Strange paradox.
A Frenchman makes it a rule, never to refuse information on any subject when it is demanded
of him; and although he may, in fact, never have directed his attention to the matter in question,
and may not possess the slightest information, he will yet descant most plausibly, and then
seeking some opportunity of bidding you good day, he will fly off with the velocity of an arrow,
leaving you astonished at the talent displayed: But sit down and analyse what he has said,
and you will commonly find it the most thorough trifling--"vox et prœterea nihil." This observation,
however, I mean only to apply to the information which a traveller obtains en passant; for
there are undoubtedly to be found in France, men of eminent talents and of solid information;
but these you can only pick out from the mass of common acquaintances, by dint of perseverance,
and by the assistance of time. The result of the observations collected during a residence
of five months at Aix, in Provence, will be given at the end of the following Journal.

JOURNAL.

As our present journey was undertaken principally for the benefit of my health, it was necessary
that we should travel slowly, and take occasional rests. After our journey from Dieppe to the
capital, we remained five days in Paris for this purpose. The first part of this book having
conducted the reader by another route to Paris, and given a better description of that city
than I am able to supply, I have not thought it necessary to insert the details of our journey
thither; I shall content myself with remarking, that we had already gained considerable experience
in French travelling, and were pretty well prepared to commence our journey toward the south.--On
the 7th of November, therefore, we arranged matters for our departure with the voiturier, or
carriage-hirer, who agrees to carry us (six in number), with all our baggage, which weighs
nearly four cwt. to Lyons, a distance of 330 miles, for the sum of 630 francs, or, at our exchange,
nearly L.30. As this bargain was made for us by Mr B----, a French gentleman, it may afford
a good standard for this style of travelling.

We travel at the rate of 10 or 12 leagues a-day; and for invalids or persons wishing to see
the country, this is by far the most pleasant, as well as the most economical way. There are
two other methods of travelling, namely, en poste, which, though rapid, is very expensive;
the charge being, at least a horse, often more, for each person, and very little baggage being
taken; and the other is in a diligence, which, as it travels night and day, would not do for
us. The carriage we now have is a large and commodious coach, very neat and clean, and we have
three good strong horses. Our journey has as yet been varied by very little incident. The amusement
derived from travelling in a foreign country, and becoming gradually familiarised to foreign
manners,--the contrast between the style of travelling here, and that which you are accustomed
to in England,--the amusing groupes of the villagers, who flock out of their houses, to see
the English pass,--the grotesque and ludicrous figures of the French beggars, who, in the most
unbounded variety of costume, surround the carriage the moment we stop,--and the solemn taciturnity
of Monsieur Roger, our coachman, who is an extraordinary exception to the general vivacity
of his nation; these are the only circumstances which serve at present to exhilarate our spirits,
and to remove the tedium of French travelling.

Between Paris and Montargis, as we travelled during the day, we had a good opportunity of seeing
the country. But we passed through it, to be sure, at an unfavourable season of the year. The
vines were all withered, and their last leaves falling off. The elm, oak, and maple, were almost
bare. There is not much fine wood in that part of the country through which we passed; and
on the side of the road, there were many wild and sad looking swamps, with nothing but willow
and poplars docked off for the twigs. The chief produce seems to be in grapes and wheat; the
wheat here is further advanced than between Dieppe and Paris. The cows are of the same kind,
the horses smaller, weaker, and yet dearer than those of Normandy; the agricultural instruments
are massy and awkward; their ploughing is, however, very neat and regular, though not deep;
their plough here has wheels, and seems easily managed; they harrow the land most effectually,
having sometimes 10 or 12 horses in succession, each drawing a separate harrow over the same
ground. The farm-horses, though very poor to an English eye, are fortunately much better than
the horses for travelling. The stacks of grain, though rarely seen, are very neatly built.
We left the grand road at Fontainbleau, and took the route by Nevers to Lyons. We have found
it hitherto by no means equal to the other. No stone causeway in the middle, and at this time
of the year, I should fear it is always as we found it, very heavy and dirty.

Our journey hitherto has not allowed of our mixing much among or conversing with the people;
but still we cannot but be struck with the dissimilarity of manners from those of our own country.
The French are not now uniformly, found the same merry, careless, polite, and sociable people
they were before the revolution; but we may trust that they are gradually improving; and although
one can easily distinguish among the lower ranks, the fierce uncivilized ruffians, who have
been raised from their original insignificance by Napoleon to work his own ends, yet the real
peasantry of the country are generally polite.

At the inns, the valets and ostlers were for the most part old soldiers who had marched under
Napoleon; they seemed happy, or at least always expressed themselves happy, at being allowed
to return to their homes: one of them was particularly eloquent in describing the horrors of
the last few months; he concluded by saying, "that had things gone on in this way for a few
months longer, Napoleon must have made the women march." They affirm, however, that there is
a party favourable to Bonaparte, consisting of those whose trade is war, and who have lived
by his continuance on the throne; but that this party is not strong, and little to be feared:
Would that this were true! When we were in Paris, there were a number of caricatures ridiculing
the Bourbons; but these miserable squibs are no test of the public feeling. Napoleon certainly
has done much for Paris; the marks of his magnificence are there every where to be seen; but
the further we travel, the more are we convinced that he has done littler for the interior
of the country.

There is about every town and village an air of desolation; most of the houses seem to have
wanted repairs for a long time. The inns must strike every English traveller, as being of a
kind entirely new to him. They are like great old castles half furnished. The dirty chimneys
suit but ill with the marble chimney-pieces, and the gilded chairs and mirrors, plundered in
the revolution; the tables from which you eat are of ill polished common wood; the linen coarse
though clean. The cutlery, where they have any, is very bad; but in many of the inns, trusting,
no doubt, to the well known expedition of French fingers, they put down only forks to dinner.

We left Montargis at seven in the morning, and travelled very slowly indeed. At five o'clock,
after a very tedious journey, we arrived at Briare, a distance of only 27 miles from Montargis.
The landlord here was the most talkative, and the most impudent fellow I ever saw. Although
demanding the most unreasonable terms, he would not let us leave his house; at last he said
that he would agree to our terms, namely, 18 francs for our supper and beds: It is best to
call it supper in France, as this is their own phrase for a meal taken at night.

The road between Montargis and Briare, though not of hard mettle and without causeway, is yet
level and in good condition. The country, except in the immediate vicinity of Briare, is flat
and uninteresting; no inclosures; the soil of a gravelly nature, mixed in some parts with chalk.
It seems, from the stubble of last year and the young wheat of this, to be very poor indeed.
There is here an odd species of wheat cultivation, in which the grain, like our potatoes, is
seen growing on the tops of high separate ridges. It struck me that the deep hollows left between
each ridge, might be intended to keep the water. The instruments of agriculture are quite the
same as we have seen all along. Almost all of the peasants whom we saw to-day wore cocked hats,
and had splendid military tails; we supposed, at first that they had all marched. There are
great numbers of soldiers returning to their homes, pale, broken down and wearied. Some of
them very polite, many of them rough and ruffian-looking enough. About Briare, there are innumerable
vineyards, and yet we had very bad grapes; but that was our landlord's fault, not that of the
vines.

The rooms at this inn (Au Grand Dauphin), smoke like the devil, or rather like his abode. It
is a wretched place; the inn opposite, called La Poste, is said to be better. The weather is
now as cold here (10th of November), as I have ever felt it in winter at home, and it is a
more piercing and searching cold.

We had last night a good deal of rain. The weather is completely broken up, and we are at least
three weeks or a month later than we ought to have been.

* * *

We have arrived at Cosne to-night, (the 11th), after a journey through a country better wooded,
more varied, and upon the whole, finer than we have seen yet on this side of Paris, though
certainly not so beautiful as Normandy. The road is pretty good, though not paved, excepting
in small deep vallies. It lies along-side of the river Loire, and on each side, there are well
cultivated fields, chiefly of wheat, but interspersed with vineyards.

For the first time, this day we had a very severe frost in the morning, but with the aid of
the sun, which shone bright and warm, we enjoyed one of the finest days I ever saw. I sat and
chatted with the coachman, or rather with Monsieur le Voiturier. I led the conversation to
the past and present state of France, and the character of Napoleon, and immediately he, who
till this moment appeared to be as meek and gentle as a lamb, became the most eloquent and
energetic man I have seen. It is quite wonderful, how the feelings of the people, added to
their habits of extolling their own efforts, and those of Bonaparte, supply them with language.
They are on this subject all orators. He declared, that Paris was sold by Marmont and others,
but that we English do not understand what the Parisians mean when they say that Paris was
sold. They do not mean that any one was paid for betraying his trust by receiving a bribe,
but that Marmont and others having become very rich under Bonaparte, desired to spend their
fortunes in peace, and had, therefore, deserted their master. He said that Bonaparte erred
only in having too many things to do at once; but that if he had either relinquished the Spanish
war for a while, or not gone to Moscow, no human power would have been a match for him, and
even we in England would have felt this. He seemed to think, that it was an easy thing for
Bonaparte to have equipped as good a navy as ours. He was quite insensible to the argument,
that it was first necessary to have commerce, which nourishes our mariners, from among whom
we have our fighting seamen. He said, that though this was a work of years for others, it would
have been nothing for Napoleon: In short, he venerates the man, and says, that till the day
when he left Paris, he was the greatest of men. He says, he knows well that there is still
a strong party favourable to him among the military; yet that if they can once be set down
at their own firesides, they will never wish to quit them, but that the danger will be, while
they remain together in great bodies.

To-day we saw several soldiers wounded, and returning to their homes in carts; they were fierce
swarthy looking fellows, but very merry, and travelled singing all the way. To-morrow we expect
to be at Nevers. At Cosne, the only objects of curiosity to the traveller are the manufactories
of cutlery and ship anchors. The cutlery seems as good as any we have seen, but far inferior
to even our inferior English cutlery: It is also dear. Thousands of boxes, with cutlery, were,
immediately on our arrival at the inn, presented to us. Their great deficiency is in steel,
for their best goods are nearly as highly polished as in England. We bought here some very
pretty little toys for children, made of small coloured beads. We start to-morrow at six.----Distance
about 19 miles to Cosne.

* * *

This day's journey (the 12th), was the most fatiguing and the least interesting we have had.
The country between Cosne and Nevers is, with the exception of one or two fine views from the
heights on the road, the poorest, and, though well cultivated, has the least pretensions to
beauty of any we have seen, particularly in the vicinity of Pouilly. It seems also to be nearly
as poor as it is ugly. The soil is gravelly, with a mixture of chalk, and there occurs what
I have not yet elsewhere seen, a great deal of fallow land, and even some common. The face
of the country is considerably diversified by old wood, but we have only seen one plantation
of young trees since we left Paris. The instruments of agriculture and carriage the same as
before mentioned. The farm horses good. There seems a scarcity of milk, but this may be from
the winter having set in. At the inn here I met with a young officer, who although only (to
appearance) 17 or 18, had been in the Spanish war, at Moscow, and half over the world. He struck
his forehead, when he said, [4]"Nous n'avons plus la guerre." There were at the inn here a
number of officers and soldiers of the cavalry. Their horses are not to be compared with ours,
either in size or beauty, and those of their officers are not so good, by any means, as the
horses of our men in the guards.---- Distance, 34 miles--to Nevers.

* * *

We went to walk in the town this morning, the 13th. The description of one French town on the
Sunday will serve for all which we have seen. They are every day sufficiently filthy, but on
Sunday, from the concourse of people, more than commonly so. They never have a pavement to
fly to for clean walking, and for safety from the carriages. If you are near a shop, a lane,
or entry when a carriage comes along, you may fly in, if not, you must trust to the civility
of the coachman, who, if polite, will only splash you all over. On Sundays, their markets are
held the same as on other days, and nearly all the shops had their doors open, but their windows
shut. Thus they cheat the Devil, and, as they think, render sufficient homage to him who hath
said, on that day "thou shalt do no manner of work." Yet while all this is going on, the churches
are open, and those who are inclined go in, and take a minute, a quarter, half an hour, or
an hour's devotion, as they think fit. We entered the nearest of these churches, and saw, what
is always to be seen in them, a great deal, at least, of the outward shew of religion, and
something in a few individuals of the congregation which looked like real devotion. After church,
we went to the convent of St Mary, and were all admitted, both ladies and gentlemen. The nuns
there are not, by any means, strictly confined; they are of that description who go abroad
and attend the sick. Their pensioners (chiefly children from four to sixteen) are allowed to
go and see their friends; and they were all presented to us. They are taught to read, write,
work, &c. and are well fed and clothed. This convent was very neat and clean. The building
formed a complete square, and the ground in the interior was very beautifully laid out as a
garden. The cloisters were ornamented with pots of roses and carnations in full bloom, with
the care of which the young pensioners amused themselves. The holy sisters were of all ages,
and many of them pretty--one, the handsomest woman I have seen in France.

The ladies are just returned from a longer walk, and report the town to be ugly, and the streets
insufferably dirty. Its manufactures are china, glass, and enamelled goods; toys of glass beads,
and little trifles. The shopkeepers are, as in every town we have been at, perfect Jews, devoid
of any thing like principle in buying and selling. We are every day learning more and more
how to overcome our scruples with regard to beating them down. They always expect it, and only
laugh at those who do not practise it.

* * *

This day we left Nevers at six in the morning. It appears to be a large town, when viewed from
the bridge over which we crossed; but it is far from being a fine town in the interior. The
streets are, like all French streets, narrow, and the houses have a look of antiquity, and
a want of all repair; nothing like comfort, neatness, or tidiness, in any one of them. This
is a melancholy desideratum in France, a want for which nothing can compensate. The road this
day conducted us through a finer district than we have observed on this side of Paris; more
especially between Nevers and St Pierre, where we have travelled through a richer and more
beautiful country than we have yet seen. No longer the sand, and gravel, and chalk, which we
have long been accustomed to, but a dark rich soil over a bed of freestone. Here also all the
land is well enclosed. I have not yet been able to find the reason of this sudden change in
the manner of preserving the fields: The face of the country is also more generally wooded;
but from the necessity the French are under of cutting down whatever wood they find near the
towns for their fires, all the fine trees are ruined in appearance, by their branches being
lopped off: The effect of this on the appearance of the country is very sad.--Still we find
a want of that agreeable alternation of hill and dale, of the enclosed meadows, and wooded
vallies; of the broad and beautiful rivers and the small winding streams, which, as the finest
features in their native landscape, have become necessary to a Scotch or an English eye.

The dress of the women is here different from what we have elsewhere seen: the peasants' wives
wearing large gipsey straw hats, very much turned up behind and before; the men have still
the immense broad-brimmed black felt affairs, more like umbrellas than Christian hats. At the
inn here, I saw a number of wounded soldiers returning to their homes; one of them, I observed,
had his feet outside of his shoes. On entering into conversation with him, he told me that
his toes had been nearly frozen off, but that he expected to get them healed: poor fellow,
he was not above twenty. He told me that all the young conscripts were delighted to return
to their homes, and that only the old veterans were friends to the war.--I hope this may be
true, but I doubt it. The country here shows that the winter is not so far advanced; many of
the trees are still green; the roads had become heavy with the rain that has fallen; we have
had two days hard frost, but to-day the weather is mild, and the air moist. We were recommended
to the Hotel des Allies here, but preferred stopping at the first good-looking inn we found,
as in great towns things are very dear at the houses of great resort; we have had a very good
supper and tolerable lodgings for 18 francs.

To-morrow, we set out at seven.--We find our way of travelling tedious; but I think in summer
it would be by far the best. Our three horses seldom take less than 10, sometimes 13 hours
to their day's journey, of from 28 to 32 miles; but our carriage is large and roomy; and had
we any thing like comfort at our inns, as at home, we should find the travelling very pleasant.
The greatest annoyance arises from your having always to choose from the two evils, of being
either shamefully imposed upon, or of having to bargain before-hand for the price of your entertainment.

* * *

It was near eight o'clock this morning, the 16th, before we got under weigh, and according
to our coachman's account, we had been delayed by the horses being too much fatigued the night
before. He continued to proceed so slowly, that we only reached Varrenes at four o'clock, a
distance of 22 miles from Moulins, where we had last slept. Moulins is the finest town we have
seen since we left Paris. The streets are there wider, and the houses, though old and black,
are on a much better plan, and in better repair than any we have passed through; there is also
somewhat of neatness and cleanliness about them. It is famous for its cutlery, and has a small
manufacture of silk stockings; we saw some of the cutlery very neat and highly polished in
some parts, but coarse and ill finished in others. The variety of shapes which the French give
their knives is very amusing.

The road between Moulins and Varrenes is through a much prettier country than we have seen
since we left Paris; there is more wood, with occasional variety of orchards and vineyards
and corn fields. The ploughing, is here carried on by bullocks, and these are also used in
the carts. All the country is enclosed, and the lands well dressed. The wheat is not nearly
so far advanced here, which must arise from its being more lately sowed, for the winter is
only commencing; many of the trees are still in fall leaf.

We cannot well judge of any change of climate, as we have just had a change from hard frost
to thaw; but every thing has the appearance of a milder atmosphere. I enquired into the reason
of the want of hedges hitherto, and their abundance here, and was told, that it arose from
the greater subdivision of property as well as from the number of cows: that every man almost
had his little piece of land, and his cow, pigs, hens, &c. and that they could not afford to
have herds. The yoke of the bullocks here, is not, as in India, and in England, placed on the
neck and shoulders, but on the forehead and horns: this, though to appearance the most irksome
to the poor animals, is said here to be the way in which they work best. The sheep are very
small, and of a long-legged and poor kind: the hogs are the poorest I have ever seen; they
are as like the sheep as possible, though with longer legs, and resembling greyhounds in the
drawn-up belly and long slender snout; they seem content with wondrous little, and keep about
the road sides, picking up any thing but wholesome food.

The cottages on the road, and in the small towns, are generally very dirty, and inhabited by
a very motley and promiscuous set of beings; the men, women, children, indeed pigs, fowls,
&c. all huddled together. The pigs here appear so well accustomed to a cordial welcome in the
houses, that when by chance excluded, you see them impatiently rapping at the door with their
snouts.

* * *

We left Varrenes this morning, at six o'clock, and entered on a new country, which presented
to us a greater variety of scenery. The road between Varrenes and St Martin D'Estreaux is almost
all the way among the hills, which are often covered to the top with wood. After travelling
for so long a time through a country which was almost uniformly flat, our sensations were delightful
in again approaching something like a hilly district. The roads we found extremely bad, and
although we have had rain, I do not think that their condition is to be ascribed to the weather.
They want repair, and appear to have been insufficient in their metal from the first. We were
obliged here to have a fourth horse, which our coachman ordered and paid for; he went with
us as far as Droiturier, and then left us. We made out 28 miles of bad road, between six in
the morning and four in the evening. The hilly country throughout is extremely well cultivated,
and the soil apparently pretty good. France has indeed shewn a different face from what an
Englishman would expect, after such a draining of men and money.

In our route to-day, the country became very interesting, the swelling hills were beautiful,
and the first clear stream we have seen in France winded through a wooded valley, along whose
side we travelled. Many little cottages were scattered up and down in the green intervals of
the woods, or crept up the brows of the hills; and after the monotonous plains we had passed,
the whole scene was truly delightful. At the inn at La Palisse, I met with a very pleasant
French lady, who strongly advised me to avoid Montpellier, as the winds there are very sharp
in winter; she said two friends of her's had been sent from it on account of complaints contracted
there. She recommended Nice.

* * *

(Thursday, 17th.)--The road to-day was through ranges of hills, and, for the latter part of
it, we were obliged to have a fourth horse. The road very heavy in most places, and in some
wretchedly ill-paved, with stones of unequal size, and not squared. From the top of these hills
the view of the several vallies through which we passed was very beautiful, though certainly
not equal in beauty to Devonshire, or to some parts of Perthshire, and other of the more fertile
districts in Scotland: the soil far from good, and the crops of wheat thin;--yet there is not
an atom of the soil lying waste, the hills being cultivated up to the summit. The cultivation
is still managed by oxen, as is the carriage of farm produce, and all kinds of cart-work. They
have had a sad mortality among the cattle about St Germain L'Epinàsse; and all things appear
to have been affected by this disaster, for we found the milk, butter, fowls, grain, every
thing very dear indeed. In France, when a disease seizes the cattle, parties of soldiers are
sent to prevent the people from selling their cattle, or sending them to other parts of the
country. One of these parties (a small troop of dragoons) we met on the road.

On our route to-day, we crossed the Loire at a pretty large and busy town, called Roanne. The
river here is very large, but has only a wooden bridge over it: there are some fine arches,
forming the commencement of a most magnificent new stone bridge, the work of Napoleon; the
work had the appearance of having been some time interrupted. Alas, that the good King cannot
continue such works!

Here, for the first time, we saw coals, and in great quantity; the boats on which they are
carried, are long, square flat-bottomed boxes. Although in a mountainous country, and with
a poor soil, the houses of the peasants were here much better than any we have seen, though
a good deal out of repair; they are high and comfortable, having many of them two flats, and
all with windows. We saw a number of fields in which the people were turning up and dressing
the soil with spades: This, and indeed many other things in this mountainous part of the country,
reminded me of parts of the Highlands of Scotland, and the island of St Helena. But it would
not be easy to conceive yourself transported to those parts of the world, when here you every
now and then encounter a peasant in a cocked hat, with a red velvet coat, or with blue velvet
breeches: this proclaims us near Lyons, the country of silks and velvets. The climate is very
delightful at present; during a great part of to-day, I sat on the box with Monsieur le Voiturier,
who is now become so attached to us, that I think he will go with us to our journey's end.
He is a most excellent, sober and discreet man, and has given us no trouble, and ample satisfaction.
To-day, we passed two very pretty clear streams. The country seats are numerous here, but none
of those that we have yet seen are fine; they are either like the very old English manor-houses,
or if of a later date, are like large manufactories; a mass of regular windows, and all in
ruinous condition; nothing like fine architecture have we yet met with. To-morrow we start
again at six, and hope to sleep within four leagues of Lyons.---- Distance 34 miles--to St
Simphorien de Lay.

* * *

This morning, we set off, as usual, at six, and only made out in five hours a distance of 16
miles, arriving at the small town of Tarrare, which is beautifully situated in the bosom of
the hills. This difficulty in travelling is occasioned by the road being extremely precipitous.
It winds, however, for several miles very beautifully through the valley, by the banks of a
clear stream; and the hills which rise on each side, are in many places cultivated to the top,
while others are richly wooded: towards the bases they slope into meadows, which are now as
green as in the middle of summer, and where the cows are grazing by the water-side. The air
is warm and pleasant, the sky unclouded, and the light of a glorious sun renders every object
gay and beautiful. This valley is, I think, much more beautiful than any part of France we
have yet seen. Through the passes in the hills, we have had some very fine peeps at the country
to which we are travelling. Every inch of the ground on these mountains is turned to good account;
as the grass, from the soil and exposure, is very scanty, the peasants make use of the same
method of irrigating as at St Helena. Where there is found a spring of water, they form large
reservoirs into which it is received, and from these reservoirs they lead off small channels,
which overflow the field, and give an artificial moisture to the soil. The houses of the peasants
are still excellent, but there appears a great want of cattle. The fields are ploughed with
oxen, very small and lean; we had two of them to assist us on the way from St Simphorien to
Pain Bouchain.

At Tarrare, I am sorry to say, we found a want of almost every comfort. It is a pretty large
town, neater in exterior appearance than any we have seen, but very dirty within; it is famous
for its muslins and calicoes.----All this day we have had nothing but constant ascending and
descending; the country occasionally very fine, and always well cultivated. The ploughs here
are very small and ill made; they have no wheels, and are drawn by oxen. Some of the valleys
in our route to-day would be beyond any thing beautiful, if varied with a few of those fine
trees, which we are accustomed to meet with every day in England and Scotland; but the manner
in which the French trees are cut, clipped, and hacked, renders them very disgusting to our
eyes. I have not seen one truly fine tree since we left Paris, about the environs of which
there are a few. There is also a great scarcity of gentlemen's seats, of castles and other
buildings, and of gardens of every kind. France, one would suppose, ought to be the country
of flowers; but not one flower garden have we yet seen.----Distance about 31 miles--to the
Half-way-House, between Arras and Salvagny.

* * *

(Saturday, 18th.)--We left the inn at the half-way village, whose name I forgot to ask, between
Arras and Salvagny, at six this morning, and arrived at Lyons at half-past ten. On the subject
of to-day's route very little can be said. The first part of it conducted over a long succession
of very steep hills, for about four miles, after which we descended through a fine varied country
to the city of Lyons.---- Distance, 16 miles to Lyons.

Lyons is certainly a fine town, although, like Paris, it has only a few fine public buildings,
among a number of very old and ruinous-looking houses. It is chiefly owing to the ideas of
riches and commerce with which both of these towns are connected, that we would call them fine,
for they have neither fine streets nor fine ranges of houses. I need not mention, that Lyons
is the place of manufacture for all kinds of silks, velvets, ribbons, fringes, &c. But here,
as at many manufactories, things bought by retail are as dear, or even dearer, than at Paris.
The ladies of our party had built castles in the air all the way to Lyons; but they found every
thing dearer than at Paris, and almost as dear as in England.

Now that I have seen a little of the manners and dress of the people in the two largest towns
in France, I may hazard a few observations on these subjects. I think it is chiefly among the
lower ranks that the superior politeness of the French is apparent. Although you still find
out the ruffians and banditti who have figured on the stage under Napoleon, yet the greater,
by far the greater number, are mild, cheerful, and obliging. A common Frenchman, in the street,
if asked the way to a place, will generally either point it out very clearly, or say, "Allow
me to accompany you, Sir." Among the higher ranks of society you will find many obliging people;
but you will also discover many whose situation alone can sanction your calling them gentlemen.
There appears, moreover, in France, to be a sort of blending together of the high and low ranks
of society, which has a bad effect on the more polite, without at all bettering the manners
of the more uncivilized. To discover who are gentlemen, and who are not, without previously
knowing something of them, or at least entering into conversation, is very difficult. In England,
all the middling ranks dress so well, that you are puzzled to find out the gentleman. In France,
they dress so ill in the higher ranks, that you cannot distinguish them from the lower. One
is often induced to think, that those must be gentlemen who wear orders and ribbons at their
buttons, but, alas! almost every one in France at the present day has one of these ribbons.
In the dress of the women there is still less to be found that points out the distinction of
their ranks. To my eye, they are all wretchedly ill dressed, for they wear the same dark and
dirty-looking calicoes which our Scotch maid-servants wear only on week days. This gives to
their dress an air of meanness; but here the English ought to consider, that these cotton goods
are in France highly valued, and very dear, from their scarcity. Over these dresses they wear
(at present) small imitation shawls, of wool, silk, or cotton. They have very short petticoats,
and shew very neat legs and ankles, but covered only with coarse cotton stockings, seldom very
white; often with black worsted stockings. I have not seen one handsomely dressed woman as
yet in France; the best had always an air of shabbiness about her, which no milliner's daughter
at home would shew. They are said to dress much more gaily in the evening. When we mix a little
more in French society, we shall be able to judge of this.

This want of elegance and richness in dress, is, I think, one of the marks of poverty in France.
I have mentioned before the ruinous appearance of the villages and houses. The excessive numbers
of beggars is another. The French themselves say that there is a great want of money in France;
they affirm that there is no scarcity of men, and that with more money the French could have
fought for many years to come. They certainly are the vainest people in the universe; they
have often told me, that could Bonaparte have continued his blockade of the Continental trade
a few months more, England would have been undone. They sometimes confess, that they would
have been rather at a loss for Coffee, Sugar, and Cotton, had we continued our war with the
Americans, who were their carriers. The want of the first of these articles would annoy any
country, but in France they cannot live without it: in England they might.

* * *

This day, Monday the 20th, we left Lyons at one o'clock in the forenoon, travelling in most
unfavourable weather, and through almost impassable streets. The situation of Lyons is beautiful;
the site of the town is at the conflux of the Soane and the Rhone; a fine ridge of hills rises
behind the city; the innumerable houses which are scattered up and down the heights, the fine
variety of wood and cultivation, and the little villages which you discern at a distance in
the vallies, give it the appearance of a romantic, yet populous and delightful neighbourhood.

We were not able to see much of the interior of the town; but in passing once or twice through
the principal streets, and more particularly in leaving the town, we had a good view of the
public buildings. Many of them are very fine, and the whole town has an appearance of wealth,
the effect of commerce. But a better idea of the wealth is given, by the innumerable loads
of goods of different kinds, which you meet with on the roads in the vicinity of this favoured
city, on the Paris and Marseilles sides of the town. The roads are completely ploughed up at
this season of the year, and almost impassable. The waggoners are even a more independent set
of men than with us in England; they keep their waggons in the very middle of the road, and
will not move for the highest nobleman in the land; this, however, is contrary to the police
regulations. The land carriage here is almost entirety managed by mules. These are from 13
to 14 hands high, and surpass in figure and limb anything I could have imagined of the sons
and daughters of asses. The price of these animals varies from L.10 to L.40, according to size
and temper. They are found of all colours; but white, grey, and bay are the most uncommon.
Our journey this day was only as far as Vienne, a pretty large village, or it might be called
a town. We entered it at night, and the rain pouring down upon us. These are two very great
evils in French travelling; for either of them puts you into the hands of the innkeepers, who
conceive, that at night, and in such weather, you must have lodging speedily, at any price.
At the first inn we came to, we met with a reception, (which, to those accustomed to the polite
and grateful expression, with which in arriving at an English inn, you are received by the
attentive host or hostess), was altogether singular. The landlady declared, with the voice
and action of a virago, that at this time of night, the highest guests in the land should not
enter her roof upon any terms. The landlord, on the contrary, behaved with great politeness,
entreated not to take offence at his wife's uncommon appearance. "C'est seulement un tête chaud,
Monsieur, mais faites moi l'honeur d'y entrer." We accordingly did so; and this was the signal
for the commencement of a scene in the interior of the inn, which was probably never equalled
in the annals of matrimonial dissension. The landlady first gave a kind of prefatory yell,
which was only a prelude of war-whoop, introductory to that which was to follow. She then began
to tear her hair in handfuls; and kept alternately brandishing knives, forks, pots, logs of
wood, in short, whatever her hand fell upon in the course of her fury, at her poor passive
help-mate, who appeared to consider the storm with a nonchalance, which evidently could only
have been produced by very long experience; while he kept saying to us all the time, [6]"Soyez
tranquille, Monsieur; ce n'est rien que cela." At length he commenced getting ready our supper,
and I entered into conversation with a very great man, the mayor of the village, who, adorned
with a splendid order at his breast, was quietly bargaining for his supper. Nothing more completely
astonishes an Englishman than this extraordinary mixture of all ranks of society, which takes
place at the kitchen fire of a French inn. You will there see, not only sitting, but familiarly
conversing together, officers and gentlemen, coachmen, waggoners, and all classes of people,
each addressing the other as Monsieur. The mayor here, being, to all appearance, a most communicative
fellow, was easily got on the politics of the day. I began by enumerating the blessings of
peace, and by extolling the character of the present King, in all of which he seemed to join
with heart and soul. He told me how Bonaparte treated the mayors of the different towns,--how
he would raise them up at all hours of the night,--how he forced them to seize on grain wherever
it was found. In short, he abused him in the vilest terms. I put in an observation or two in
his favour, when suddenly my friend whispered me,--"Sir, to be frank with you, he was the greatest
man ever lived, and the best ruler for France." I encouraged him a little, by assenting to
all he said, and I found him a staunch friend of Napoleon, anxious for his return: I have no
doubt, that time-serving gentlemen like these, would wish for nothing more. It appeared to
me, that his highness, the mayor, was in very high spirits, either from wine, or that it was
his nature--however, "In vino veritas."----Distance, nineteen miles to Vienne.

* * *

We had a miserable lodging at this vile inn, (Hotel du Parc at Vienne.) We left it with pleasure,
this morning, (Tuesday the 21st), although the weather continued most unfavourable; yet any
thing was better than remaining in such a house. The day continued to rain without intermission;
and we made out with difficulty about 30 miles, to St Vallier. The country through which we
passed to-day, is the most bare and barren we have seen, particularly when we approached St
Vallier. The soil, a deep gravel, producing nothing but grapes, and a wretched scanty crop
of wheat. The grapes, however, are here the finest for wine in France. It is here that the
famous wines of Cotè Rotie and Hermitage are made. To the very summits of the hills, you see
this wretched looking soil enclosed with stone dykes, and laid out in vineyards. We tasted
some of the grapes here, and though out of season, we found them very fine; they were of a
small black kind called Seeràn.

The woman at the inn here, was sent for from the church, to see whether she would receive us
on our terms of 18 francs, which is what we now always pay; having asked 20, we settled with
her, and she went back to her devotions. We have now had three days of continued rain, which
renders travelling very uncomfortable, and the roads most wretched. We still rise every morning
at five, and are on the road at six. The air is mild, but very damp. The honey of Narbonne,
got at Lyons, is the finest in France. I forgot to mention, that at Lyons we tried the experiment
of going to the table d'hôte. We ought not, however, to form the opinion of a good table d'hôte
from the one of the Hotel du Parc. It was mostly composed of what are here called Pensionaires;
people who dine there constantly, paying a smaller sum than the common rate of three francs.
The company was, therefore, rather low, and the table scantily provided; but I should think,
that for gentlemen travellers, a table d'hôte, where a good one is held, would be the best
manner of dining.----Distance 30 miles to St Vallier.

* * *

Wednesday, the 22d.--We left St Vallier at half past six in the morning, and only reached St
Valence, a distance of 23 miles, by five o'clock. This delay was occasioned by the heavy fall
of rain during these four last days, and by there being no bridge over the Isere, within four
or five miles of Valence. The former bridge, (a most beautiful one, though only of wood), had
been burnt down, by General Augereau to intercept the progress of the Austrians. The French
appear to hate Augereau as much as Marmont; they say he was a traitor to Napoleon, to whom
he owed every thing. The country through which we passed to-day, was as plain and uninteresting
as yesterday's, though still all cultivated. Nothing but vines on the hills, and the plains
almost bare--still gravelly. We found the Isere much swollen by the rain. The contrivance for
carrying over the carts and carriages, is exceedingly simple and beautiful: Three very high
trees are formed into a triangle, such as we raise for weighing coals. One of these is placed
on each side of the river, and a rope passes over a groove at the top, and is fixed down at
each side of the river; to this rope that crosses the river is attached a block and pulley,
and to this pulley is fixed the rope of the boat. The stream tries by its rapidity to carry
the boat down; the rope across prevents this; and it therefore slides across, with a regular
though rapid motion.

It appears to me that we are getting into a poorer country in every respect; for the inns are
worse, the food worse, the roads worse, &c. There seems a want of poultry as well as butcher
meat. Mutton here is very poor. Our inn to-night is the best we have seen since we left Lyons;
it is at the Golden Cross, outside the town of Valence, and is neatly kept and well served.
The waiter here had served in the army for six years. He says, there are indeed many of the
soldiers who wish for war; but that he really believes there are as many who wish for peace:
I have little faith in this. We observed this morning a large party of men returning from the
galleys, having passed the time of their imprisonment. They were all uniformly dressed in red
flannel clothes and small woollen caps, and attended by gens-d'armes.----Distance 23 miles--to
St Valence.

* * *

Thursday, the 23d.--We left St Valence well enough pleased with our lodging at the Golden Cross.
It is, however, an exception to the bad set of inns we have lately been at. In the kitchen
here, which I entered from curiosity, as the ladies went up stairs to the parlour, I found,
as usual, a most extraordinary mixture of company. I listened, without joining at all in the
conversation. The theme of discourse was a report that had been circulated, that all the young
troops were to hold themselves in readiness again to take up arms. The only foundation I could
find for this report was, that a drum had been beat for some reason or other that evening.
This was a good opportunity of attending to the state of the public feeling here;--all and
every one seemed delighted at the thoughts of war, provided it was with the Austrians. One
man (a shopkeeper to appearance), said, that his son, a trumpeter, when he heard the drum,
leapt from his seat, and, dancing about the room, exclaimed, [7]"La guerre! la guerre!" On
the route this morning, we met with a small party of five or six soldiers returning to their
homes; two of them had lost their right arms, and two others were lamed for life. They all
agreed that they would never have wished for peace; and that even in their present miserable
state they would fight. They were very fine stout fellows, about 40 years of age; but they
had the looks of ruffians when narrowly examined.

In the same inn the hostler, who had only fought one year, was as anxious for a continuation
of peace as the others were for war. The wife of one of these soldiers gave a most lamentable
description of the horrors of the last campaign, and ended by praying for a continuation of
the peace.

At a little village near Montelimart (our lodging place to-night), we were accosted in very
bad English by a good-looking young Frenchman, who, from our appearance, knew us to be English.
He told us that he had been four years a prisoner at Plymouth; he complained of bad treatment,
and abused both the English and England very liberally, saying that France was a much finer
country. Poor fellow! in a prison-ship at Plymouth he had formed his opinion of England. He
gave us some good hints about the price of provisions in this part of the country. Wine (the
vin ordinaire) is here at six sous, or three-pence the bottle. I had been very much astonished
(on ordering some wine for the soldiers in the morning), to find that I had only ten sous to
pay for each bottle.

The country through which we passed to-day is rather more interesting, with a considerable
variety of hill and dale, wood and water, but the soil is still a miserable gravel. Both to-day
and yesterday we observed that the fields on each side of the road were planted with clumsy
cropt trees, somewhat like fruit-trees. We could not make out what these were until to-day,
when we learnt that they were mulberry trees, and that this was a silk country. The trees are
of the size of our orchard trees; their branches, under the thickness of an inch, are all lopped
off, and from the wounds thus made, spring up the tender young branches which produce the leaves.
The trees have a most unnatural appearance from this cause. Under these the fields here are
ploughed for a most wretched crop of wheat. The ploughs miserably constructed, but with wheels.

This part of the country abounds with mule, which are used in carriages, carts, waggons, ploughs,
&c. These animals are of a remarkable size here. The roads, ever since we left Lyons, excepting
where we met with a hundred or two hundred yards of pavement, have been uniformly bad. To-day,
however, we made out about 33 miles between six and five o'clock. This town of Montelimart
is celebrated for one manufacture only, viz. a sort of cake made of almonds and white sugar,
called Nagaux. This article is sent from this place all over France!------ Distance 33 miles--to
Montelimart.

* * *

Our journey to-day (Friday the 24th) though rather more rapid, was not by any means comfortable.
The country hereabout has a great want of milk and butter;--not a cow to be seen. The soil
is still to appearance wretchedly poor, yet it gives a rich produce, in grapes, figs, olives,
and mulberry leaves, for the silk worms. The wine (vin ordinaire) sells here at six sous the
bottle; it is poor in quality, yet by no means unpalatable. The roads continue as bad as ever,
rather worse indeed, for the thin creamy mud has become thick doughy clay.

We did not arrive at Orange till half past five, but were fortunate in finding a civil reception
at the Palais Royal, the first inn on entering the town. We met with no adventures to-day of
any kind. The language of the people has now become completely unintelligible; it is a Patois
of the most horrible nature. Many of the better sort of people among the peasants, are able
to speak French with you, but where they have only their own dialect, you are completely at
a loss. I had conceived, that there would be no more difference between French and Patois,
than between the better and the lower dialects of Scotch and English; but the very words are
here changed: A carter asked the landlord with whom we were conversing, for a [8]"Peetso morcel
du bosse,"--"petit morceau du bois." The landlord, a respectable-looking man, gave us a good
deal of news regarding the state of the country. He says, that the people in the south are
all anxious for peace, and that those in France, who wish for war, are those who have nothing
else to live on; that nobody with a house over his back, and a little money, desires to have
war again.

The people here seem to amuse themselves with a perpetual variety of reports. The story to-day
is, that Alexander has declared his intention of sending 60,000 men to Poland, to take possession
of that country for himself; and that Talleyrand would not hear of such a thing. The villages
that we passed to-day have a greater appearance of desolation than any we have yet seen. Scarce
a house which does not seem to be tumbling to pieces, and those which we were unlucky enough
to enter, were as dirty and uncomfortable inside as they appeared without. On entering the
town, or rather at a little distance from the town of Orange, we saw a beautiful triumphal
arch, said to have been raised to commemorate the victories of Marius over the Cimbri. The
evening was too gloomy for us to observe in what state of preservation the sculpture is now,
but the architecture is very grand. To-morrow we breakfast at Avignon. But alas, the weather
will not permit of our visiting Vaucluse.----Distance 39 miles--to Orange.

* * *

Saturday, the 25th.--We left Orange at half past six. Our road to-day lay through the same
species of country, to which we have been condemned for four days, producing vines, olives,
and mulberries; the soil is to all appearance a most wretched one for corn--gravel and stones.
The roads have, ever since our leaving Lyons, been very bad. After breakfast at Avignon, we
proceeded to see the ruins of the church of Notre Dame. There are now remaining but very few
vestiges of a church; the ground formerly enclosed by the church, is now formed into a fruit
garden, and a country house has been built on the ruins. The owner of this house wishes to
let it, and hearing that a friend of ours was in need of a house, he offered it to him for
two hundred a-year. The house was such as one could procure near London for about L.80, and
such as we ought to have in France for L.20. But the French do really think, that the English
will give any sum they ask, and that every individual is a kind of animated bag of money.

The owner of the house was, to appearance, a broken-down gentleman; he had been ordered to
Marseilles by his physician for an affection of the lungs; yet he strongly recommended the
climate of Avignon. For my own part, I think the situation is too low and windy to be healthy.
The town is one of the cleanest we have seen, and there are some excellent houses in it; of
the rent we could not well judge from the account of this gentleman. We went through his garden,
and were by him shewn the spot under which the tomb of Laura is now situated. A small cypress
tree had been planted by the owner of the garden to mark the spot. He had heard the story of
Laura, and recollected many particulars of it; but still he had not been at the pains to have
the spot cleared, and the tomb exposed to view. To any one who was acquainted with the story
of Petrarch, or who had perused his impassioned effusions, the dilapidation of this church,
and the barbarous concealment of Laura's tomb, were most mortifying circumstances. But, neither
the memory of Laura, nor of the brave Crillon, whose tomb is also here, had any effect in averting
the progress of the revolutionary barbarians. The tomb of Crillon is now only to be distinguished
by the vestiges of some warlike embellishments in the wall opposite which it was situated.
There is a large space now empty in the midst of these ornaments, from which a large marble
slab had lately been taken out. On this slab, the owner of the garden said, an inscription,
commemorating the virtues of Crillon, had been engraved. A small stone, with his arms very
beautifully engraved, was shewn us in the garden. I could not leave the garden without stealing
a branch from the cypress which shaded Laura's tomb.

Through this garden runs the rivulet of Vaucluse. Its course is through the town of Avignon;
where we remained for three hours, and then continued our journey; but the day was far advanced,
and by the evening we only arrived at a wretched, little inn called Bonpas. We were here told
that we could have no lodging. Luckily for us the moon was up, and very clear; we therefore
pushed on for Orgon, which, although said in the post-book to be two posts and a half from
Bonpas, we reached in about an hour and a half. On our arrival we were fortunate enough to
find lodging; and had scarcely seated ourselves in our parlour, when the people told us, that
last night the mail had been robbed, and both the postillion and conducteur killed on the spot,----Distance
42 miles--to Orgon.

* * *

Sunday, the 26th,--We left Orgon, as usual, at six o'clock, and travelled before breakfast
to Font Royal, a distance of 11 miles. Here the unfortunate conducteur of the mail was lying
desperately wounded; the surgeon, however, expected him to live. The postmaster here was not
well satisfied with the conduct of the soldiers or gens-d'armes who attended the mail. The
robbers were only four in number, and the attendants, viz. the postillion, conducteur and gens-d'armes,
he thought, ought to have been a match for them. The robbers were frightened off while searching
for the money, and fled without taking any thing of consequence.

It is a very bad arrangement which they have in France, of sending large sums of money in gold
and silver by the mail; for it holds out a much stronger inducement than would otherwise be
given to the robbers. The mail, in France, is a very heavy coach, and has only three horses.
The roads to-day were worse than any we have yet passed; and the country, for the first part
of our journey, is as dull and insipid as it is possible to conceive. The soil most wretched,
but still producing great riches in olives, grapes, figs, and mulberries. The grapes are delightful,
even now when almost out of season, and the wine made from them is very fine. Within a mile
or two of Aix, (from the top of a steep descent over a very barren, and bleak hill), you are
delighted with the most complete change in the scene: In a moment, an extensive valley, highly
cultivated, opens on the view. It is divided into a beautiful variety of vineyards, wheat fields,
gardens, plantations of olives and figs, and is enclosed by hedge-rows of almond and mulberry
trees. Round the valley rise a succession of romantic hills, covered with woods, and forming
a fine conclusion to the view. It was altogether an enchanting picture. If this is the case
in winter, what must it be in summer? The town of Aix, situated in this valley, is, as far
as we have seen, the cleanest, neatest, and most comfortable-looking town in France--we are
as yet all delighted with it; but when we shall have seen it for a day or two, I shall be better
able to give an account of it.----Distance 33 miles--to Aix.

CHAPTER II.

RESIDENCE AT AIX, AND JOURNEY TO BOURDEAUX.

MONDAY, the 27th.--Having been employed the whole day in searching for furnished lodgings,
I had no time to ride about and see the town. I shall describe it afterwards.--I saw, however,
a little of the manners of some ranks of French society.

After this, I went into the best coffeehouse in the town here, and sat down to read the newspapers.
I found in it people of all descriptions--several of a most unprepossessing appearance, and
others really like gentlemen. One of the best dressed of these last, decorated with the white
cockade and other insignia, and having several rings of precious stones on his fingers, a watch,
with a beautiful assortment of seals and other trinkets, was playing at Polish drafts, with
an officer, also apparently a gentleman. I entered into conversation with him; and was surprised
at his almost immediately offering me his watch, trinkets, and rings for sale. Still I thought
this might arise from French manners: I had not a doubt he was a gentleman.--How great was
my surprise, when a gentleman from the other side of the room called him by name, and bid him
bring a cup of coffee and a glass of liqueur--My friend was one of the waiters of the coffeehouse.
Such is the mixture of French society--such is the effect of citizenship.

Our landlord, Mr A----, keeps a retail shop for toys, perfumery, cutlery, and all manner of
articles. I did not think that we had given him any encouragement on our fist arrival; but
he is now become a pest to us: he honours us with his company at all hours, and comes and seats
himself with our other acquaintances, of whatever rank they may be. I have been forced at last
to be rude to him, in never asking him to sit down when any one is with us. The physician shakes
him by the hand--so does the banker. When I had purchased my horse, our banker spoke to a little
mean-looking body, a paper-maker, to buy some corn and hay for it. I was astonished when the
banker ended his speech by an affectionate[9] "Adieu, a revoir a souper." I am told, however,
that this mixture of ranks, and this condescension on the part of superiors, is only practised
at times, and to serve a purpose; and that, although the nobleman will sit down in the kitchen
of an inn, and converse familiarly with the servants there, and though he will sit down in
a shop, and prattle with the Bourgeoise, yet he keeps his place most proudly in society, inviting
and receiving only his equals and superiors. The familiarity of all ranks with their own servants
is most disgusting; but, from their poverty, the higher classes must condescend.

Yesterday evening, I had an interesting conversation with Mr L. B. an intelligent and well
informed man, of good family, eminent in his profession, and high in the opinion of all the
society here; he is a devoted royalist. Among other interesting anecdotes which he related,
I can only recollect these:

Bonaparte had got into some scrape at Toulon, where he was well known as a bad and troublesome
character; he was arrested, and put under a guard commanded by a near relation of Mr L. B.
Barras, then at the height of his power in Paris, not knowing what to do with some of his royalist
enemies, sent for Bonaparte, and proposed to him to collect a body of troops, and to fire on
the royalists. Jourdan, and many other officers were applied to, but refused so base an employment.
Bonaparte willingly accepted it--acquitted himself to Barras's satisfaction, and Barras then
offered him the command in Italy, provided he would marry his cast-off mistress, Madame Beauharnois.
To this Bonaparte consented. Bonaparte's mother had been, about this time, turned out of the
Marseilles Theatre, on account of her bad character; for it was well known, that she subsisted
herself and one of her daughters on the beauty of her other daughter. Shortly after Bonaparte's
appointment to the Italian army, the same magistrate (the Mayor of Marseilles), who had formerly
turned out Madame Bonaparte, perceived her again seated in one of the front boxes; he went
up to her, and turned her out. She immediately wrote to her son, and the poor mayor was dismissed.
This anecdote is, I find, mentioned by Goldsmith, who refers, in proof of its truth, to the
newspapers of the time, in which the conduct, and sentence of the mayor are fully discussed.

Bonaparte, extremely dissipated himself, would yet often correct any propensities of that kind
in his relations. Pauline, the Princess Borghese, had formed an attachment for a very handsome
young Florentine; he was one night suddenly surprised by Bonaparte's emissaries, put into a
carriage, and removed to a great distance, with orders not to return.

One of Bonaparte's relations had formed an attachment to Junot, who was one of the handsomest
men in France; Junot was immediately after sent to Portugal, and upon his defeats there, he
was disgraced publicly by Bonaparte, and killed himself, it was believed, in a fit of despair.

The Princess Borghese, though vain, fond of dress, of extravagance, and of pleasure of every
sort, whether honest or otherwise, has yet a good heart. A cousin of Mr L. B.'s was ordered
to join the Garde d'Honneur: One of the last and most cruel acts of Bonaparte, was the constitution
of this corps, which was meant to receive the young men of noble or rich families. The mother
and relations of this young man were inconsolable, and the sum of money which would have been
required as a ransom, was more than they could give; for Bonaparte, well knowing that the better
families would rather pay than allow of their sons serving in his guard, had made the price
of ransom immense. In their distress, they applied to Mr L. B., who had been at one time of
service to the Princess Borghese in his legal capacity, and he paid a visit to the Princess.
She received him most kindly, but told him that Bonaparte strictly forbade her interfering
in military matters; that she would willingly apply for the situation of a prefect for Mr L.
B. but could be of no service to his relation. She was, however, at last prevailed on; she
wrote most warmly to her friends, and in three or four days the young man was sent back to
his happy family.

The French here date Bonaparte's downfall from the time when he first determined on attacking
the power of the Pope. They say that this attack and the Spanish War, were both contrary to
the advice of Talleyrand. In a conversation which took place between the Emperor Alexander
and Napoleon, Alexander represented his own power as superior to Napoleon's, because he had
no Pope to, controul him; and Bonaparte then replied, that "he would shew him and the world
that the Pope was nobody."

Our conversation turned on the difference between the penal codes of France and England. The
French code, as revised, and, in many parts, formed by Napoleon, is much more mild than ours.
There are not more than twelve crimes for which the punishment is death. In England, according
to Blackstone, there are 160 crimes punished by death; on these subjects, I shall afterwards
write more fully when I haws received more information. Mr L. B. related a curious anecdote,
from which the abolition of torture is said to have been determined.

A judge, who had long represented the folly of this method of trial, without any success, had
recourse to the following stratagem:--Be went into the stable at night, and having taken away
two of his own horses, he had them removed to distance. In the morning his coachman came trembling
to inform him of the theft. He immediately had him confined. He was put to the torture, and,
unable to bear the agony, he said that he had stolen the horses. The judge immediately wrote
to the King, and informed him, that he himself had removed the horses. The man was pardoned,
and the judge settled a large pension on him. The subject of the torture was considered, and
the result was its abolition.

I found that the opinions as to some parts of their criminal jurisprudence in France, were
the same as are entertained on the same subject in England. Mr L. B., who has had occasion
professionally to attend many criminal trials, is of opinion, that in this country, terrible
punishments ought to be avoided, or at least performed in private. It is generally thought,
that the horror of these punishments deters the robber and murderer, and has a good effect
on the multitude; but I am afraid, said Mr L. B., that the multitude compassionate the sufferer,
and think the laws unjust: and experience shews, that punishments, however horrid, do not deter
the hardened criminal. My father, said he, filled the situation of judge in his native city.
A very young man, son of his baker, was convicted before the court, and condemned to die, for
robbery with murder. After sentence, my father visited him, and asked him how he had been led
to commit such a crime? Since I was a child, said the boy, I have always been a thief. When
at school, I stole from my school-fellows,--when brought home, I stole from my father and mother.
I have long wished to rob on the high-way; the fear of death did not prevent me. The worst
kind of death is the rack, but by going to see every execution, I have learnt to laugh even
at the rack. When young, it alarmed me, but habit has done away its terrors.

Mr L. B. is certainly a man of gentlemanly manners, and of much general information. He is
received at Aix in the first society of the old nobility; and was, I afterwards found, reckoned
a model of good breeding, and yet, (which, in the present condition of French manners, is by
no means uncommon), I have frequently witnessed him, in general company, introducing topics,
and employing expressions, which, in our country, would not have been tolerated for a moment,
but must have been considered an outrage to the established forms of good breeding.

The day after our conversation with Mr L. B. we received a visit from the daughter of a Scotch
friend, who is married to one of the first counsellors here. We returned home with her to hear
some music. We were received in a very neat and very handsomely furnished house. The mother
and daughter appeared to us polite and elegant women. But I was astonished to observe, seated
on a sofa near them, a young man, whose costume, contrasted with the ease and confidence of
his manners, gave me no small surprise. He wore an old torn great coat, a Belcher handkerchief
about his neck, a pair of, worn-out military trowsers, stockings which had once been white,
and shoes down in the heel. What my astonishment to find this shabby looking object was a brother
of the counsellor's, and a correct model of the morning costume of the French noblemen!

From Mr L. B. I learnt, that the worst land in Provence, when well cultivated, produces only
three for one. The common produce of tolerably good ground, is from five to seven for one.
The greatest produce known in Provence is ten for one. But for this, the best soils are weeded,
and plenty of manure used. Our banker's account of the soil here is more favourable; but I
am doubtful whether he is a farmer. Mr L. B. has a farm, and superintends it himself.

I had the good fortune to attend a trial, which had excited much interest here. In the conscription
which immediately preceded the downfall of Bonaparte, it appears, that the most horrid acts
of violence and tyranny had been committed. People of all ranks, and of all ages, had been
forced at the point of the bayonet to join the army. Near Marseilles, the gens-d'armes, in
one of the villages, after exercising all kinds of cruelty, had collected together a number
of the peasantry, and were leading them to be butchered. The peasants, in Provence, are naturally
bold and free. The party contrived to escape, and all but one man hid themselves in the woods.
This poor fellow was conducted alone; his hands in irons. His comrades lay in wait for the
party who were carrying him away, and in the attempt to deliver him, three of the gens-d'armes
were killed. The unfortunate conscript was only released to die of his wounds. Three of his
comrades were seized, and indicted to stand trial for the murder of the gens-d'armes.

I judged this a most favourable opportunity of ascertaining the public feeling, and attended
the trial accordingly. The court was a special one, for this is one of the subjects which Bonaparte
did not trust to a jury. It was composed of five civil and three military members. The forms
of proceeding were the same as I have fully noticed in a subsequent chapter,--the same minute
interrogations were made to the unhappy prisoners--the same contest took place between these
and the Judges. One was acquitted, and the other two found guilty of "meurtre volontaire, mais
sans premeditation."--Voluntary, but unpremeditated murder. These two were condemned to labour
for life, but a respite was granted, and an appeal made to the King in their behalf. I was
not disappointed in the ebullitions of public feeling which many of the incidents of the trial
called forth. Mr L. B. and another young advocate pleaded very well. They both touched, though
rather slightly, on the state of the country; but it was left to Mr Ayeau, the most celebrated
pleader in criminal trials, and a zealous royalist, to develope the real condition of France,
at the time of this last conscription. His speech was short, but I think it was the most energetic,
and the most eloquent I ever heard. He began in an extraordinary manner, which at once shewed
the scope of his argument, and secured him the attention of every one present--"Gentlemen,
if that pest of society, from whom it has pleased God to release us, was a usurper and a tyrant,
it was lawful to resist him. If Louis the XVIII. was our legitimate prince, it was lawful to
fight for him." He then shewed, in a most ingenious argument, that the prisoners at the bar
had done no more than this. Some parts of his speech were exceedingly beautiful. He ended by
saying, that "he dared the Judges to condemn to death those who would have died for "Louis
le desiré."--It is generally thought here, that they will all be pardoned.

The situation of the town of Aix, and the scenery in the valley, is truly beautiful. It is
now the middle of December, yet the air is even warmer, I think, than with us in summer. We
sit with open windows, and when we walk, the heat of the sun is even oppressive. The flowers
in the little gardens in the valley are in full bloom; and the other day we found the blue
scented violet, and observed the strawberries in blossom. The fields are quite green, and the
woods still retain their variegated foliage. When the mistral (a species of north-west wind,
peculiar to this climate), blows, it is certainly cold; but since our arrival, we have only
twice experienced this chilling interruption to the general beauty and serenity of our weather.
The scenery in the interior of the hills which surround the valley, is very romantic; and the
little grassy paths which lead through them, are so dry, that our party have had several delightful
expeditions into the hills. Many of our French friends, although probably themselves no admirers
of the country, profess themselves so fond of English society, that they insist upon accompanying
us; and it is curious to witness the artificial French manners, and the noisy volubility of
French, tongues introduced into those retired and beautiful scenes, which, in our own country,
we associate with the simplicity and innocence of rural life.

Amidst these peaceful and amusing occupations, the easy tenor of our lives gliding on from
day to day, interrupted by no variety of event, except the entertaining differences occasioned
by foreign manners and a foreign country; we were surprised one morning by the entrance of
our landlord, who came into our parlour with a face full of anxiety, and informed us, that
Napoleon had landed at Cannes from Elba, and had already, with five hundred men, succeeded
in reaching Grace. Mr L. B. soon came in and confirmed the report. Although certainly considerably
alarmed at this event, especially as the greater portion of our party was composed of ladies,
I could not help feeling, that we were fortunate in having an opportunity thus offered of ascertaining
the state of public opinion, and the true nature of the political sentiments of that part of
the country in which we are at present residing; for we are here at Aix, within twenty-five
miles of the small town where Napoleon has landed.

I shall first detail the circumstances under which this singular event took place; afterwards
attempt to give some idea of the effects produced by it on the multitude. On the 1st of March
1815, Napoleon landed near Cannes, in the gulf of Juan. His first step was, to dispatch his
Aide-de-Camp, Casabianca, with another officer and 25 men, to ask admittance into the Fort
of Antibes; admitted into the Fort, they demanded its surrender to Bonaparte. The Governor
paraded his garrison, and having made them swear allegiance to their Sovereign, he secured
the rebels. Casabianca leaped from the wall and broke his back. In the meantime, Napoleon,
finding his first scheme fail, marched straight to Grace, with between 700 and 800 men. He
there encamped with his small force on the plain before the town, and summoned the mayor to
furnish rations for his men; to which the mayor replied; that he acknowledged no orders from
any authority except Louis XVIII. This conduct was the more worthy of praise, as the poor mayor
had not a soldier to support him. The Emperor then attempted to have printed a proclamation
in writing, signed by him, and counter-signed by General Bertrand, in which, among other rhodomontades,
he tells the good people of France, that he comes at the call of the French nation, who, he
knew, could not suffer themselves to be ruled by the Prince Regent of England, in the person
of Louis XVIII.--The printer refused to print it. Napoleon proceeded from Grace to Digne, from
Digne to Sisteron, and from Sisteron to Gap, where he slept on the 6th of March. In all the
villages, he endeavoured, apparently without success, to inflame the minds of the people, and
strengthen, by recruits, his small body of troops. He has, as yet, got no one to join him;
but, on the other hand, he has met with no resistance. This day, the 8th, he must meet with
three thousand men, commanded by General Marchand. It is thought, that if these prove true
to their allegiance, he will make good his way to Lyons; but if, on the contrary, they oppose
him, he is ruined. The commotion excited in Aix, by this news, is not to be conceived. The
hatred and detestation in which Bonaparte is held here, becomes, I think, more apparent as
the danger is more imminent. With a very few exceptions, all ranks of people express these
sentiments. The national guard were immediately under arms, and entreated their commanding
officer and the civil authorities, to permit them to go in pursuit of the ex-Emperor. Unfortunately
the chiefs were not well agreed on the measures which ought to be adopted. From the excessive
sang froid with which Massena conducted himself, I should not be surprised if there were some
truth in the report which was current here, that he had intelligence of the whole scheme, and
kept back, in order that he might join Bonaparte. The first and second day, nothing was done;
on the 3d, the 83d regiment was dispatched in pursuit from Marseilles. I accompanied them for
four miles, during which, they had made two short halts. I had an opportunity of talking with
a number of the men: they were certainly liberal in their abuse of the ex-Emperor; but several
of them remarked, that it was a hard thing to make them fight against each other. The French
here are all of opinion, that the troops of the line are not to be trusted. Like all other
soldiers, they long for war, and as they would be more likely to have war Under Napoleon, than
under Louis XVIII. I have little doubt they would join him. On the first news, the whole society
of Aix were in the deepest affliction--the men agitated and disturbed--the women and children
weeping. Each hour these feelings changed, for every hour there was some new report. The French
believe every thing, and though each report belied the other, I saw no difference in the credit
attached to them. There is no newspaper published in Aix, and the prefect, who is a person
much suspected, has taken no steps to give the public correct information, but allows them
to grope, in the dark; they have invented accordingly the most ridiculous stories, converting
hundreds into thousands, and a few fishing boats and other small craft, into first a squadron
of Neapolitans, and then a fleet of English ships. This report of the English ships is, I am
sorry to say, still current, and the English are looked on with an evil eye by the lower orders.
Even among our more liberal friends, there were some who asked me, what interest the English
could have in letting him escape? After some cool reasoning, however, they acknowledged the
folly of this story. The King is universally blamed for employing, in the most responsible
situations, the Generals attached to Napoleon. The populace declare, that Soult, the Minister
of War, is at the bottom of this attempt. Now, that one can reason on the matter, and that
the impression of the magnanimity which dictated the conduct of the allied Powers to Napoleon,
is somewhat diminished, it must be allowed, that there is some sense in the remark, that it
was folly to dismiss him to Elba, with all the appointment, "pomp, and circumstance" of a little
Sovereign, instead of confining him in a prison, or leaving him no head to plan mischief. The
people affirm here, that this was done purposely by the English, to keep France in continual
trouble.

15th.--All possibility of continuing this little Journal is precluded by the alarming progress
of Napoleon, and the consequent necessity of taking immediate steps for our departure from
this country. The ex-Emperor is every day making rapid strides to the capital; and we have
to-day intelligence that it is believed the troops in Lyons are disaffected. I have now given
up all hope, for I see plainly that every thing is arranged--not a blow has been struck. The
soldiers have every where joined him, and there cannot be a doubt that he will reign in France.
He may not, indeed, reign long; for it is to be hoped that the English will not shut their
eyes, or be deceived by the fabricated reports of the journals--It is to be hoped that the
allied Powers are better acquainted with the character of Napoleon than the too-good Louis
XVIII. In the mean time, it is high time for us to be off; and I think we shall take the route
of Bourdeaux. This unfortunate town (Aix), is now a melancholy spectacle; for all the thinking
part believe that the cause of the Bourbons is lost. Our poor landlord, a violent royalist,
has just been with us. He affirms that he could have predicted all this; for when he sold the
white cockades to the military, they often said, [10]"Eh bien; c'est bon pour le moment, mais
cela ne durera pas long temps."--Poor man, he is in perfect agony, and his wife weeps all day
long. If all the people of France thought as well as those at Aix, Napoleon would have little
chance of success; but alas, I am much afraid he will find more friends than enemies.

The whole town is still in the greatest confusion. The national guard, amongst whom were many
of our friends, were not allowed to march till the seventh day after the landing of Napoleon.
By day-break, we were awoke by the music of the military bands, and saw, from the windows,
the different companies, headed by their officers, many of whose faces were familiar to us,
march out, seemingly in great spirits. It was a melancholy sight to us. There was something
in our own situation; placed in a country already involved in civil commotion, finding our
poor French friends, whose life seemed before this to be nothing but one continued scene of
amusement, now weeping for the loss of their sons and husbands and brothers, who had marched
to intercept Napoleon, and involved in uncomfortable uncertainty as to our future plans, which
for some time made every thing appear gloomy and distressing. The interval between the 8th
and the 12th has been occupied by a constant succession of favourable and unfavourable reports;
gloomy conjectures and fearful forebodings, have, however, with most people here, formed the
prevailing tone of public opinion. The report which was, a few days ago, circulated here, that
the escape of the ex-Emperor was a premeditated plan, invented and executed by the English,
gains ground every day. It is completely credited by the lower classes here; and such is the
enmity against the English, that we are now obliged to give up our country walks, rather than
encounter the menacing looks and insulting speeches of the lower orders. To-day is the 8th,
and we are in a state of the most extreme anxiety, waiting for the arrival of a courier. In
this unfortunate country, owing to the imperfection of the system of posts, public news travel
very slowly; and in proportion to the scarcity of accurate information, is the perplexing variety
of unfounded reports. The prefect of Aix has just been here to tell us that as yet there appears
to be nothing decided; but that upon the whole, things look favourably for the Bourbons. Bonaparte,
he informs us, slept at Gape on Sunday, and dispatched from that town three couriers with different
proclamations. Not a man joined him, and it is said he left Gape enraged by the coolness of
his reception. In the course of the day, another mail from Gape has arrived, but still brings
no intelligence, which looks as if this unfortunate business would be speedily decided. Monsieur
has arrived at Lyons, and intends, we hear, to proceed to Grenoble. Last night it was quite
impossible for us to sleep. The crowds in the streets, and the confusion of the mob who parade
all night, expecting the arrival of a new courier, creates a continual uproar. During the night,
we heard our poor landlady weeping; and we found out next morning that her husband had been
called off in the night to join the national guard, which had marched in pursuit of the ex-Emperor.

Friday, the 10th.--Still no decisive intelligence has arrived. Every thing, it is said, looks
well, but there is a mystery and stillness about the town to-day which alarms us.

Saturday, the 11th.--We have this day received from Mr L. B., who marched with the national
guard, a very interesting letter from Sisteron. The crisis, which will determine the result
of this last daring adventure of the ex-Emperor, seems to be fast approaching. Our friend tells
us all as yet looks well. Bonaparte is surrounded and hemmed in to the space of two leagues
by troops marching from all sides. These, however, how strong soever they may be, appear to
maintain a suspicious kind of inaction, and he continues his progress towards Grenoble. Every
thing depends on the conduct of the troops there, under General Marchand. Their force is such,
that if they continue firm, his project is ruined. On the contrary, if their allegiance to
the Bourbons is but pretended, and if their attachment to their old commander should revive,
it is to be dreaded that this impulse will have an irresistible effect upon the troops; and
if Marchand's division joins him, all is irretrievably lost: He will be at the head of a force
sufficient to enable him to dictate terms to Lyons, and the pernicious example of so great
a body of troops will poison the allegiance of the rest of the army.

Sunday, the 12th.--Our fears have been prophetic. We have heard again from Mr L. B. This letter
is most melancholy; Marchand's corps have joined the ex-Emperor, and he is on his march to
Lyons, the second town in the kingdom, with a force every day increasing. It is absolutely
necessary now to form some decided plan for leaving this devoted country. Whether it will be
better to embark from Marseilles or to travel across the country to Bourdeaux, is the question
upon which we have not yet sufficient information to decide. We expect to hear to-morrow of
an engagement between the troops commanded by the Prince D'Artois at Lyons, and the force which
has joined Napoleon. Every moment which we now remain in this kingdom is time foolishly thrown
away. Bonaparte may have friends in the sea-port towns; the organization of this last scheme
may be, and indeed every hour proves, that it has been deeper than we at first imagined, and
the possibility of escape may in a moment be entirely precluded.

Monday, the 13th.--This has been a day of much agitation; a courier has arrived, and the intelligence
he brings is as bad as possible. Every thing is lost. The Count d'Artois harangued his troops,
and the answer they made, was a universal shout of Vive l'Empereur. The Prince has been obliged
to return to Paris; Bonaparte has entered Lyons without the slightest opposition, and is now
on his march to the capital. We have just been informed, that the Duc d'Angouleme is expected
here this evening or to-morrow. The guarde nationale has been paraded upon the Cours, and a
proclamation, exhorting them to continue faithful to the King, read aloud to the soldiers.
We hear them rapturously shouting Vive le Roi; and they are now marching through the streets
to the national air of Henrie Quatre. Every house has displayed the white flag from its windows.

Thursday, the 16th.--We have determined now to run the risk of travelling across the country
to Bourdeaux, trusting to embark from that town for England. I have visited Marseilles, and
find that there are no vessels in that port; and in the present uncertain state of Italy, it
would be hazardous attempting to reach Nice. Bonaparte, we hear, is near Paris, and is expected
to enter that capital without opposition; but we now receive no intelligence whose accuracy
can be relied on, as the couriers have been stopt, and all regular intercourse discontinued.
The preparations, for the arrival of the Duc d'Angouleme, continued till this morning; and
in the evening we witnessed his entry into Aix: It was an affecting sight. At the gate of the
town, he got out of his carriage, mounted on horseback, and rode twice along the Cours, followed
by his suite. The common people, who were assembled on each side of the street, shouted Vive
le Roi, Vivent les Bourbons, apparently with enthusiasm. The attention of the Duke seemed to
be chiefly directed to the regiments of the line, which were drawn up on the Cours. As he rode
along, he leant down and seemed to speak familiarly to the common soldiers; but the troops
remained sullen and silent. No cries of loyalty were heard amongst them--not a single murmur
of applause. They did not even salute the Duke as he past, but continued perfectly still and
silent. In the midst of this, we could hear the sobs of the women in the crowd, and of the
ladies, who waved their handkerchiefs from the windows. As he came near the balcony where we
and our English friends were assembled, we strained our voices with repeated cries of Vive
le Roi. He heard us, looked up, and bowed; and afterwards, with that grateful politeness, the
characteristic of the older school of French manners, he sent one of his attendants to say,
that he had distinguished the English, and felt flattered by the interest they took in his
affairs. Although it was positively asserted by our French friends here, that Marseilles was
in the greatest confusion; and that on account of the prevalence of the report of the English
having favoured the escape of Bonaparte, all our countrymen were liable to be insulted; I yet
found the town perfectly tranquil. Massena, I heard, had sent for some troops from Toulon;
and the 3000 national guards employ themselves night and day, in shouting Vive le Roi. We shall
leave Aix to-morrow morning, taking the route to Bourdeaux.

Friday, the 17th of April.--Our leaving Aix this morning was really melancholy. French friends,
hearing of our approaching departure, flocked in to bid us farewell. They were in miserably
low spirits, deploring the state of their unhappy country, weeping over the fate of their sons
and husbands, who had marched with the national guard in pursuit of the ex-Emperor; and full
of fears as to the calamities this might bring upon them. You are happy English, said they,
and are returning to a loyal and secure country, and you leave us exposed to all the calamities
of a civil war.

After a long day's journey, we have at last arrived at Orgon, at seven in the evening. There
has been little travelling on the road to-day. The country has nearly the same aspect as in
November last. The only difference is, that the almond trees are in full blossom, and some
few other trees, such as willows, &c. in leaf; the wheat is about half a foot to a foot high:
The day was delightfully mild; and as we drove along, we met numberless groups of peasants
who lined the road, and were anxiously waiting for their Prince passing by. The road was strewed
with lilies, and the young girls had their laps filled with flowers as we passed. As we past,
they knew us to be English, and shouted Vive le Roi.

We are now in Languedoc, but as yet I cannot say that it equals, or at all justifies Mrs Radcliffe's
description: Flat and insipid plains of vignoble or wheat. However, there is here, as every
where in France, no want of cultivation. Napoleon had commenced, and nearly finished, a very
fine quay and buttresses between the two bridges of boats. That man had always grand, though
seldom good views. The walls of the inn here were covered with a mixture of "Vive le Roi!"
and "Vive Napoleon!" this last mostly scratched out. National guards in every town demanded
our passport. These men and the gens-d'armes are running about in every direction. No courier
from Paris arrived here these three days. This looks ill. The houses are better in appearance
than in Provence. The country very productive: Potatoes the finest I have seen in France.----Distance
34 miles.

* * *

Sunday, 19th.--We left Nismes at six o'clock this morning, and breakfasted at Lunel, where
they appear to be full of loyalty. It was a subject to us of much regret, that more time was
not allowed us to examine a magnificent Roman amphitheatre, half of which is nearly entire,
although the remaining part is quite ruinous. The troops in the town were drawn up on the parade,
expecting the Duke d'Angouleme. We received a small printed paper from an officer on the road,
containing the information last received from Paris, which secured us a good reception at the
inn. The people were delighted to procure a piece of authentic intelligence, (a thing they
seldom have); they flocked round us, and upon their entreaty, I gave them the paper to carry
to the caffèe. In the inn we found a number of recruits for the army forming by the Duke d'Angouleme;
it is said that he has already collected at Nismes nineteen hundred men, all volunteers. The
country does not improve in romantic beauty as we advance in Languedoc; but what is better,
the cultivation is very superior; large fields of fine wheat. There seems to be all over the
south the same want of horned cattle; horses also are very scarce and very bad:--milk never
to be had unless very early, and then in small quantity. No land wasted here. All the houses
about Montpellier are better than near Aix, and we even saw some neat country seats, a circumstance
almost unknown in all the parts of France where we have hitherto been. The olive trees are
here much larger and finer than in Provence; but the country, although covered with olives,
vines, and wheat, is flat, ugly, and insipid. The instruments of agriculture are even inferior
to those in Provence, which last are at least a century behind England. The plough here is
as rude as in Bengal, and is formed of a crooked branch of a tree shod with iron. As we approached
near Montpellier, the appearance of the country began to display more beautiful features. The
ground is more varied, the fields and meadows of a richer green, a distant range of hills closes
in the view, and the olive groves are composed of larger and more luxuriant trees. Nearer to
the town, the country is divided into small nursery gardens, which, although inferior to those
in the environs of London, give an unusual richness to the landscape. We arrived at Montpellier
at six o'clock, and from the crowd in the town, found much difficulty in procuring an hotel.

* * *

Monday, 20th April.--We have better news to-day; letters from the Duke d'Angouleme announce
that the whole conspiracy has been discovered, and that Soult (Ministre de Guerre) and several
other generals have been arrested. In consequence of which, it is expected that the plans of
the conspirators will be in a great measure defeated. The French change in a moment from the
extreme of grief to the opposite, that of the most extravagant joy. To-day they are in the
highest spirits;--but things still look very ill. No courier from Paris for these last four
days. The ex-Emperor still marching uninterruptedly towards that city, yet no one can conceive
that he will succeed, now that the King's eyes are open;--his clemency alone has occasioned
all this--he would not consent to remove the declared friends of Napoleon.

We passed this day at Montpellier; but were prevented by the intense heat of the sun from seeing
as much of the environs as we could have wished. The town is old and the streets shabby; but
the Peyroue is one of the most magnificent things I ever saw. It is a superb platform, which
forms the termination of the Grand Aqueduct built by Louis XIV. and commands a magnificent
extent of country. In front, the view is terminated by a long and level line of the Mediterranean.
To the south-west the horizon is formed by the ridge of the Pyrenees; while, to the north,
the view is closed in by the distant, yet magnificent summits of the Alps. Immediately below
these extends, almost to the border of the Mediterranean, a beautiful paysage, spotted with
innumerable country seats, which, seen at a distance, have the same air of neatness and comfort
as those in England. At the end of this fine platform, is a Grecian temple, inclosing a basin,
which receives the large body of water conveyed by the aqueduct, and which empties itself again
into a wide basin with a bottom of golden-coloured sand. The limpid clearness of the water
is beyond all description. The air, blowing over the basin from a plain of wheat and olives
(evergreens in this climate), has a charming freshness. The Esplanade here is also a fine promenade,
although the view which it commands is not so fine as that from the Peyroue. The manufactures
of Montpellier are, verdigris, blankets and handkerchiefs; little trade going on. The climate
is delightful, though now too warm for my taste. Every thing is much farther advanced here
than at Aix. They have some very pretty gardens here, though nothing equal to what we see every
day in England. The botanical garden is very small. We start to-morrow at six for Beziers,
where we expect to find water carriage to Toulouse.

* * *

Tuesday, 21st April.--We left Montpellier at five in the morning, and although the country
round the town is certainly more beautiful than the greater part of Languedoc we have yet seen,
it in a short time became very uninteresting; an extended plain, covered with uninclosed fields
of wheat, and occasionally a plantation of olives. Before reaching Maize, a small town situated
within a mile of the shore of the Mediterranean, we passed through a fine forest, the only
considerable one we have seen in Languedoc. The road winded along the shore; the day was delightful,
and as warm as with us in July; and the waters of the Mediterranean lay in a perfect calm,
clear and still, and beautiful, under the light of a glorious sun. The general appearance of
the country is certainly not beautiful. It improves much upon coming near Pezenas, where the
fields are divided into green meadows, and interspersed with little gardens, in which, although
it is now only April, the fruit trees are in full blossom, and giving to the view an uncommon
beauty. The blossom of the pears, peach, and apple-trees, is, I think, richer than I ever saw
in England. The season is not only much more advanced here than at Aix, but the warmth and
mildness of the climate gives to the fields and flowers a more than common luxuriancy. Many
of the meadows are thickly sown with the white narcissus, and the hedges, which form their
inclosures, are covered with the deepest verdure, which is finely contrasted with the pink-flowers
of the almond trees, rising at intervals in the hedge-rows. The wheat round Montpellier was
now, in the middle of April, in the ear. We set off to-morrow at half-past five, in order to
get into the coches d'eau at Beziers before 12 (the hour of starting). Hitherto we have proceeded
without the slightest molestation. The English, I am now thoroughly convinced, are not popular
amongst the lower orders; but as we are the couriers of good news, we are at present well received.
Could it be believed by an Englishman, that we, who travel at the miserable rate of 30 miles
a-day, should be the first to spread the news wherever we go. The reason is, that we get the
authentic news through our friends and bankers, and circulate it in the inns, instead of the
ridiculous stories invented by those groping in ignorance. The feelings of the people seem
excellent every where; the troops alone maintain a gloomy silence. The country, from Montpellier,
is the same as hitherto, flat and insipid: but the crops are much farther advanced than in
Provence. We had some fine peeps at the Mediterranean this morning. The town of Pezenas is
prettily situated, and is surrounded by numbers of beautiful gardens, though on a small scale.
All the fruit trees are here in blossom: Green peas a foot and a half high. The ploughs in
this part of the country are more antiquated than any I have seen. The ploughing is very shallow;
but nature does all in France.----Distance about 34 miles.

* * *

Wednesday, 22d.--Left Pezenas at half past five, and arrived to breakfast at half past nine
at Beziers. We went to see the coches d'eau, described as superbes and magnifiques by our French
friends. Their ideas differ from ours. It would be perfectly impossible for an English lady
to go in such a conveyance; and few gentlemen, even if alone, would have the boldness to venture.
The objections are: there is but one room for all classes of people; they start at three and
four each morning; stop at miserable inns, and if you have heavy baggage, it must be shifted
at the locks, which is tedious and expensive. Adieu to all our airy dreams of gliding through
Languedoc in these Cleopatrian vessels. They are infested with an astonishing variety of smells;
they are exposed to all the inclemencies of the weather; and they are filled with bugs, fleas,
and all kinds of bad company. The country to-day, though still very flat, is much improved
in beauty. Very fine large meadows, bordered with willows, but too regular. Bullocks as common
as mules in the plough. Wheat far advanced, and barley, in some small spots, in the ear. I
learnt some curious particulars, if they can be depended upon, concerning this conspiracy of
Bonaparte from a Spanish officer, who had taken a place in our cabriolet. He says, that one
of the chief means he has employed to create division in France, and to make himself beloved,
has been by carrying on a secret correspondence with the Protestants, and persuading them that
he will support them against the Catholics; and by representing the King as wishing to oppress
them. To the army he has promised, that he will lead them again against the allied Powers,
who have triumphantly said they have conquered them; this is a tender point with the French:
At the present time, when the troops are deserting their King, and flying to the standard of
the usurper, still even the most loyal among the people cannot bear the idea that the allies
should assist in opposing him.

We have continued with our coachman, and carry him on to Toulouse. He is an excellent fellow,
has a good berlin, with large cabriolet before, and three of the finest mules I ever saw. He
takes us at a round pace, from 15 to 20 miles before breakfast, and the rest after it, making
up always 30 miles a-day. The pay for this equipage per mile is not much above a franc and
a half. We have found it the most comfortable way of travelling for so large a party. He carries
all our baggage, amounting to more than 400 pounds, without any additional expence. The country
between Pezenas and Beziers, and between Beziers and Narbonne, is richer and more beautiful
than any part of Languedoc which we have yet seen. It is divided into fields of wheat, which
is now in the ear, divisions of green clover grass, meadows enclosed with rows of willows,
and orchards scattered around the little villages. These orchards, which are now all in blossom,
increase in number as you approach the town of Narbonne. We have enjoyed to-day another noble
view of the distant summits of the Pyrenees, towering into the clouds.----Distance, 34 miles--to
Narbonne.

* * *

Thursday, 23d.--We left Narbonne at half past five, and have travelled to-day, through a country
more ugly and insipid than any in the south; barren hills, low swampy meadows, and dirty villages.
There is a total want of peasants houses on the lands; but still a very general cultivation.
Ploughs, harrows, and other instruments, a century behind. Fewer vines now, and more wheat.
At Moux, one of the police officers read out a number of proclamations, sent by the prefect
of the department, exciting the people to exertions in repelling the usurper. The cries of
"Vive le Roi" were so faint, that the officer harangued the multitude on their want of proper
feeling. He did not, however, gain any thing. One of the mob cried out, that they were not
to be forced to cry out "Vive le Roi." Wherever we have gone, I have heard from all ranks that
the English have supported Bonaparte, and that they are the instigators of the civil war. In
vain I have argued, that if it were our policy to have war with France, why should we have
restored the Bourbons? Why made peace? Why wasted men and money in Spain? It is all in vain--they
are inveterately obstinate.----Distance 39 miles.

* * *

Friday, 24th.--We left Carcassone at seven, as we have but a short journey to-day. Arrived
at Castelnaudry at half past five, and found the inn crowded with gentlemen volunteers for
the cavalry. The volunteers are fine smart young men, and all well mounted. Their horses very
superior to the cavalry horses in general. We passed a cavalry regiment of the line this morning,
the 15th dragoons. Horses miserable little long-tailed Highland-like ponies, but seemingly
very active. The whole country through which we have travelled since the commencement of our
journey in France, is sadly deficient in cattle. We meet with none of these groupes of fine
horses and cows, which delight us in looking over the country in England, in almost every field
you pass. This want is more particularly remarkable in the south. The country to-day is the
same; a total want of trees, and of variety of scenery of any kind. No peasants houses to be
seen scattered over the face of the country; the peasantry all crowd into the villages.--Yet
there is no want of cultivation. The situation of the lower classes is yet extremely comfortable.
The girls are handsome, and always well drest. The men strong and healthy. The young women
wear little caps trimmed with lace, and the men broad-brimmed picturesque-looking hats: both
have shoes and stockings. The parish churches in this part of France are in a miserable condition.
It is no longer here, as in England, that the churches and Curès' houses are distinguished
by their neatness. Here, the churches are fallen into ruins; the windows soiled, and covered
with cobwebs. The order of the priesthood, from what I have seen, are, I should conceive, little
respected.----Distance 29 miles.

* * *

Saturday, the 25th.--We left Castelnaudry at five o'clock, and have travelled to-day through
a country, which, from Castelnaudry to Toulouse, is uniformly flat and bare, and uninteresting.
We were surprised to-day by meeting on the road a party of English friends, who had set out
for Bourdeaux, returning by the same road. They informed us, they had heard by private letters,
that Bonaparte was at the gates of Paris, on which account they had returned, and were determined
to pass into Spain. They told us, that the roads were covered by parties of English flying
in every direction; and that all the vessels at Bourdeaux were said to have already sailed
for England. It was, however, impossible for us now to turn back; and we continued our route
to Bourdeaux with very uncomfortable feelings, anxious lest every moment should confirm the
bad news, and put a stop to our progress to the coast, or that, when we arrived, we should
find the sea-ports under an embargo. Near Toulouse, are seen a few country seats, which relieve
the eye; but the town is old and ugly, and situated, to all appearance, in a swampy flat. We
shall see more of it to-morrow. The road from Castelnaudry to this is very bad, the worst we
have seen yet in the south of France; it has been paved, but is much broken up.----Distance
41 miles.

* * *

Sunday, 26th.--It has become necessary now to change all our plans of travelling. Upon visiting
our banker this morning, I received from him a full confirmation of the bad news--Napoleon
is in Paris, and again seated on the throne of France. Our banker has procured for us, and
another party, forming in all 29 English, a small common country boat, covered over only with
a sail. In this miserable conveyance we embarked this afternoon at two, and arrived the first
night at Maste. Our passage down the Garonne is most rapid, and as the weather is delightful,
the conveyance is pleasant enough; but our minds are in such a state we cannot enjoy any thing.
To-morrow I shall continue more connectedly.

* * *

Monday, the 27th.--We are now gliding down the Garonne with the utmost rapidity and steadiness.
The scene before us presents the most perfect tranquillity. The weather which we now enjoy
is heavenly,--the air soft and warm,--and the sun shedding an unclouded radiance upon the glassy
waters of the Garonne, in whose bosom the romantic scenery through which we pass, is reflected
in the most perfect beauty. On each side, are the most lovely banks covered with hanging orchards,
whose trees, in full blossom, reach to the brink of the river. We have passed several small
villages very beautifully situated; and where we have not met with these, the country is more
generally scattered with the cottages of the peasantry, which are seen at intervals, peeping
through the woods which cover the banks. As our boat passes, the villagers flock from their
doors, and place themselves in groups on the rocks which overhang the river, or crowd into
the little meadows which are interspersed between the orchards and the gardens. At the moment
in which I now write, the sun is setting upon a scene so perfectly still and beautiful, that
it is impossible to believe we are now in the devoted country, experiencing, at this very hour,
a terrible revolution; the most disastrous political convulsion, perhaps, which it has ever
yet undergone. In former times, the changes from the tranquillity it enjoyed under a monarchial
government, to the chaos of republicanism, and from that to the sullen stagnation of a firm-rooted
military despotism, were gradual; they were the work of time. But the unbounded ambition of
Bonaparte, after a series of years, had brought on his downfall, by a natural course of events,
and France had begun to taste and to relish the blessings of peace. On a sudden, that fallen
Colossus is raised again, and its dark shadow has over-spread the brightening horizon. Could
it be credited, that within one short month, that man whom we conceived detested in France,
should have journeyed from one extremity of that kingdom to another, without meeting with the
slightest resistance? I say journeyed, for he had but a handful of men, whom, at almost every
town, he left behind him, and he proceeded on horseback, or in his carriage, with much less
precaution than at any former period of his life. France has now nothing to hope, but from
the heavy struggle that will, I trust, immediately take place between her and the allied powers.
It will be a terrible, but, I trust, short struggle, if the measures are prompt: but if he
is allowed time to levy a new conscription; if even he has sufficient time to collect the hordes
of disbanded robbers whom his abdication let loose in France, he possesses the same means of
conducting a long war that he ever possessed. The idea so current in France, that this event
will only occasion a civil war, is unworthy of a moment's attention. Every inhabitant in every
town he passed, was said to be against him. We heard of nothing but the devoted loyalty of
the national guards; but at Grenoble, at Lyons, and at Paris, was there found a man to discharge
his musket? No! against a small number of regular and veteran troops, no French militia, no
volunteers will ever fight, or if they do, it will be but for a moment; each city will yield
in its turn.

The country is improving; the banks, in many places, are beautiful; for some days past we have
been in the country of wheat, but now we are again arrived among the vines. Very little commerce
on this river, although celebrated as possessing more than any one in France. It reminds me
of the state of commerce in India,--boats gliding down rapidly with the stream, and toiling
up in tracking. The shape, also, of the boats is the same. We have this moment passed a boat
full of English, and the sailors have shouted out, that the white flag is no longer flying
at Bourdeaux. If the town has declared for the ex-Emperor, I dread to think of our fate.

* * *

Tuesday, the 28th.--This morning, at three, I left my party, and took a very light gig, determined
(as the news were getting daily worse, and the road full of English hurrying to Bourdeaux),
to post it from Agen. I was attended by a friend. By paying the post-boys double hires, we
got on very fast, and although, from their advanced age and infirmities, the generality of
French conveyances will not suffer themselves to be hurried beyond their ordinary pace, this
was no time to make any such allowances. We accordingly hurried on, and after having broke
down four times, we arrived at Bourdeaux at six in the evening, a distance of more than a hundred
miles; and were delighted to see the white flag still displayed from all the public buildings.
The country from Agen to Bourdeaux is the richest I have seen in France, chiefly laid out in
vines, dressed with much more care than any we have yet seen; many fields also of fine wheat,
and some meadows of grass pasture. Every thing is much further advanced than in Languedoc,
even allowing for the advance in the days we have passed in travelling. Barley not only in
the ear, but some fields even yellowing. Bourdeaux is a noble town, though not so fine, I think,
as Marseilles. We arrived just in time: a few hours later, and I should have found no passage.

* * *

Wednesday morning, the 29th.--I have settled for the last accommodations to be had, viz. a
small cabin in a brig, for which I pay L.130. The owner, like every other owner, is full of
great promises; but in these cases, I make it a rule to believe only one half. Bourdeaux shews
the most determined loyalty; but, alas! there are troops of the line in the town, and in the
fort of Blaye. Instead of sending these troops away, and guarding the town by the national
guards, they content themselves with giving dinners to each other, and making the drunken soldiers
cry, "Vive le Roi!" In England, every thing is done by a dinner; perhaps they are imitating
the English: but dinners will not do in this case; decided measures must be taken, or Bourdeaux
will fall, in spite of its loyalty, and the noise it makes. The journal published here, of
which I have secured most of the numbers, from Napoleon's landing to this day, is full of enthusiastic
addresses:--The general commanding the troops to the national guards,--the national guards
to the troops,--the mayor to his constituents,--the constituents to the mayor;--all this is
well, but it will do nothing. Although every thing is yet quiet, I am determined to hurry our
departure, for I do not think there is a doubt of the issue. Since I entered Bourdeaux, I have
always thought it would yield on the first attack.

Thursday, the 30th.--Things look very ill. The fort of Blaye has hoisted the tri-coloured flag.
Thank heaven our vessel passed it to-day; we should otherwise probably have been fired upon.
We go to Poillac, where we are to embark by land, as a party of English, who attempted to go
by water, were stopt and made prisoners. The town of Bourdeaux is in a dead calm; the sounds
of loyalty have ceased, and a mysterious silence reigns throughout the streets: I am sure all
is not well. Suddenly after all this silence, there has been a most rapid transition to sentiments
of the most devoted loyalty. This has been occasioned by a great entertainment given by the
national guards to the troops of the line; so that I am afraid that although these regular
soldiers of the regular army, when elated with wine, choose to be devoted loyalists, their
political sentiments may undergo many different changes upon their return to sobriety. At present,
the shout of Vive le Roi, from the different troops of the line and national guards which are
patroling the streets, is loud and reiterated. Napoleon has sent to-day his addresses and declarations
to Bourdeaux, but the couriers have been imprisoned, and the civil authorities have sworn to
continue faithful to their King. This loyalty will be immediately put to the test, for Clausel
is advancing to the walls. The Dutchess d'Angouleme passed through the streets, and visited
the casernes of the troops: Indeed her exertions are incessant. To her addresses the people
are enthusiastic in their replies, but the troops continue, as I expected, sullen and silent;
they answered, that they would not forget their duty to her, as far as not injuring her. I
trust that she passed our hotel this evening for the last time, and that she has left Bourdeaux
for England. Every individual in this city, the troops excepted, appears to hate and detest
Napoleon as cordially as he detests them. They expect immediate destruction if he takes the
town. Their commerce must be ruined; yet there is no exertion--nothing but noise. Vive le Roi
is in every heart, but they are overawed by the troops; it costs nothing. Subscriptions, however,
for arming the militia, go on slowly. They seem always to keep a sharp eye to their pockets,
although, as far as shouting and bellowing is required, they are willing to levy any contribution
on their lungs. The French are indeed miserably poor, but they are also miserably avaricious.
There is nothing even approaching to national spirit; yet their prudence sometimes gets the
better even of their economy. One instance, which I witnessed to-day, will shew the way in
which a Frenchman acts in times like these: I was in a shop when one of the noblesse entered,
bearing a subscription paper. He addressed the shopkeeper, saying, that he begged for his subscription,
as he knew he was a royalist. I never subscribe my name in times like these, said the cautious
Frenchman, but I will give you some money. The gentleman entreated, urging, that respectable
subscriptions, more than money, were wanted; but all in vain. The shopkeeper paid his ten shillings,
saying, he would always be the first to support his King.

I entered a bookseller's shop, and asked for the political writings of the day. The man looked
me cautiously in the face, and said he had none of them. I happened to see one on the table,
and asked him for it, telling him that I was an Englishman, and wished to carry them with me;
he then bid me step in, and from hidden corners of the inner-shop, he produced the whole mass
of pamphlets.--All this denotes that a change is immediately expected.

This last night has been passed as might be expected, owing to the circumstances in which we
were placed, in much agitation. Clausel is every moment advancing up the town. Every thing
is in confusion. The troops declare they will not fire a shot. The national guards are wavering
and undecided, and this moment (five in the morning) our coachman has knocked at our door to
tell us that we cannot remain another moment safe in the town.

* * *

Friday, the 31st.--We set off accordingly at sunrise, before any one was abroad in the street.
Our coachman reported, that General Clausel had reached the gates, and that the national guard
had been beat off. We have arrived, therefore, at the most critical moment, and may be grateful
that we have escaped. The road between Bourdeaux and Poillac is very bad. Arrived at the inn
at half way, we met with the Marquis de Valsuzenai, prefect of the town, who confirmed the
bad news: We learnt from him, that at three in the morning of the 30th, the town had capitulated
without a shot having been fired. Two men were killed by a mistake of the soldiers firing,
upon their own officers; a miserable resistance! But it could not be otherwise, as no militia
could long stand against regulars. Still I expected tumults in the streets--rising among the
inhabitants--weeping and wailing. But no: the French are unlike any other nation, they have
no energy, no principle. Miserable people! We arrived at Poillac just as it grew dark, and
owing to the sullen insolence of our coachman, who was a complete revolutionist, and to his
hatred for the English, which evinced itself the moment he found that Bourdeaux had capitulated,
we found it difficult to get any thing like accommodation. I am happy to add, that this same
fellow, meeting another party of English, and beginning to be insolent, an Irish gentleman,
with that prompt and decisive justice which characterises his country, by one blow of his fist
laid him speechless upon the pavement.

Upon meeting the Prefect of Bourdeaux, between that town and the little sea-port Poillac, in
disguise, and hurrying to the shore, he informed us that before leaving the city, he had fallen
on his knees before the Dutchess d'Angouleme, to persuade her to embark for England, and had,
after much entreaty, succeeded. That before setting out himself, he had sent her post-horses,
and most anxiously expected her arrival, although he had doubts whether she would be permitted
to leave the town. As we pursued our route, we passed the Chateau Margot. The Marquis, to whom
it belonged, was watching on the road with his young daughter; and the moment our carriage
came in sight, he rushed up in great agitation, and exclaiming, "Where is the Dutchess? Why
does she not come. She must be concealed at my house to-night. There are troops stationed at
a league's distance from this to prevent her escape." Then observing the fair complexion of
one of the ladies of our party, he cried out, "It is the Dutchess, it is my beloved Princess.
Oh! why have you no avant garde; you must not proceed." The poor old man was in a state of
extreme agitation, and his daughter weeping. It was a few minutes before we could undeceive
him, and his assurances that we should be stopt by the troops on the road, afforded us no very
cheering prospect as we proceeded on our journey. No troops, however, appeared, and we arrived
safely at Poillac at seven o'clock.

The Dutchess did not appear that night; but early next morning, we were called to the window,
by hearing a great bustle in the street. It was occasioned by the arrival of this unfortunate
Princess. She had three or four carriages along with her, filled with her attendants, and was
escorted by a party of the national guards. Their entry into Poillac formed a very mournful
procession; she herself looked deadly pale, although seemingly calm and collected. We saw many
of the officers of the national guard crowding round her with tears in their eyes. There was
a little chapel close to where we were lodged, and while the other ladies went down to the
frigate to prepare for the embarkation, we heard that the Dutchess herself had gone to mass.
After we imagined that the service would be nearly concluded, two of the ladies of our party
entered the chapel, and placed themselves near to where they knew she would pass. As she came
near them, observing that they were English, and much affected, she held out her hand to them;
one of them said, "Oh, go to our England, you will be cherished there." "Yes, yes," replied
she, "I am now going to your country;" and when they expressed a wish that this storm would
be quickly over, and that when she again returned to France it would be for lasting happiness.
The Dutchess replied with an expression which was almost cheerful, "Indeed, I hope so." This
was the last time that any of us saw her. There was then in her expression a look of sweet
and tranquil suffering, which was irresistibly affecting.

* * *

We embarked, this morning, Saturday, the 1st, on board the William Sibbald, after a night of
troubles. Most fortunately for me, I had not trusted entirely to the owner's word, and had
provided three beds and some provisions; for the captain told us, he could not provide ship
room, and neither mattress nor provision of any kind.----Here we are then, in no very comfortable
circumstances, yet thankful to escape from this miserable country. There are others in much
greater misery than we. The Count de Lynch, Mayor of Bourdeaux, his brother, and another relation,
the General commanding the national guard, and four or five French fugitives, have been sent
on board here, by the Consul and the English Captain of the frigate; and they have neither
clothes, nor beds, nor victuals: they leave their fortunes and their families behind them.
"Alas! what a prospect," one of them exclaimed to-day; "this is the third fortune Bonaparte
has lost to me." The unfortunate Dutchess d'Angouleme is now safe on board the English frigate.
On leaving Bourdeaux, the Dutchess printed an address to the inhabitants, stating the reasons
of her leaving them, to prevent the town from becoming a scene of blood and pillage. Alas!
she knows not her own countrymen; they would not fight an hour to save her life: yet it is
not because they do not love her--she is adored--the whole family are adored. The good among
the nation wish for peace, but the troops are for war, and they are all-powerful. It is unjust
to say that France ought to be allowed to remain under Napoleon, as she has desired his return:
the army chiefly have desired it, and plotted it. They burn for pillage and for revenge on
the allies, who had humbled their pride. If the allies are not prompt, he will again be master
of his former territory. Something might even yet be done at Bourdeaux by an English army.

We are now in the mouth of the English channel, and in full hopes, that as our stock, of water
and of patience is almost exhausted, the Captain will put us into the first English port. May
God grant us soon the sight of an English inn, and an English post-chaise, and in a day we
shall forget all our troubles.

END OF THE JOURNAL.

CHAPTER III.

STATE OP FRANCE UNDER NAPOLEON.

To trace, with accuracy, the effects of the revolution and of the military despotism of Napoleon
on the kingdom of France, it would be necessary to attend to the following subjects:--the state
of commerce--wealth of the nation, and division of this wealth--the state of agriculture--the
condition of the towns and villages--of the noblesse and their property--the condition of the
lower ranks, namely, the merchants, tradesmen, artificers, peasants, poor, and beggars--the
state of private and public manners--the dress of the people--their amusements--the state of
religion and morality--of criminal delinquency and the administration of justice.

But to treat all these different subjects, and to diverge into the necessary observations which
they would naturally suggest, would form of itself a voluminous work. In order, however, to
judge fairly of the state of France, and of the character of the people, we must select and
make observations on a few of the most material points. In my Journal, which accompanies this,
I have purposely said but little on the state of the people and their character, as I intended
to finish my travels before I formed my opinion. I did not wish to be guilty of the same mistake
with another traveller, who, coming to an inn in which he had a bad egg for breakfast, served
by an ugly girl, immediately set down in his Journal, "In this country, the eggs are all bad,
and the women all ugly." My readers are already aware of the opportunities I possessed of obtaining
information. They are such as present themselves to almost every traveller in France; and they
will not therefore be surprised if my remarks are somewhat common-place. They will recollect
that our party disembarked at Dieppe, and travelled from one coast to the other by Rouen, Paris,
Lyons and Aix. By travelling very slowly, never above 30 miles a-day, I had, perhaps a better
opportunity than common of seeing the country, and of conversing with the inhabitants; and
I have been more than commonly fortunate in forming acquaintance with a number of very well
informed men in the town, which we selected as the place of our residence in the winter: This
was Aix, in Provence. I have described it before in my Journal, and have only to add, that
the head court for four departments is held there; that there is a College for the study of
Law and Divinity, and that it is remarkable for possessing a society of men better informed,
and of more liberal education, than most other towns in France.

The inhabitants of Provence have always been marked by excesses of affection or disaffection.
They do nothing in moderation; "Les têtes chaudes de Provence," is an expression quite common
in France. In the commencement of the revolution, the bands of Provençals, chiefly Marseillois,
were the leaders in every outrage. And when the tyrant, Napoleon, had fallen from his power,
they were among the first to cry "Vivent les Bourbons!" They would have torn him to pieces
on his way to Frejus, had he not been at times disguised, and at other times well protected
by the troops and police in the villages through which he passed. It will then easily be imagined
that the English were received with open arms at Aix. They heaped on us kindnesses of every
description, and our only difficulty was to limit our acquaintance. From among the most moderate
and best informed of our friends at Aix, I attempted to collect a few traits and anecdotes
of Napoleon, and with their assistance, I shall, in the first instance, attempt giving a sketch
of his character. It would be tedious, as well as unnecessary, to detail all the circumstances
of his life; for most of these are generally known. I shall therefore only mention such as
we are not generally acquainted with.

* * *

NAPOLEON was born at Ajaccio, in Corsica, not, as is generally supposed, in August 1769, but
in February 1768. He had a motive for thus falsifying even the date of his birth; he conceived
that it would assist his ambitious views, if he could prove that he was born in a province
of France, and it was not till 1769 that Corsica became entitled to that denomination. His
reputed father was not a huissier (or bailiff) as is generally stated, but a greffier (or register
of one of the courts of justice). His mother is a Genoese; she is a woman of very bad character;
and it is currently reported that Napoleon was the son of General Paoli; and that Louis and
Jerome were the sons of the Marquis de Marbeuf, governor of the island. The conduct of the
Marquis to the family of Bonaparte, then in the utmost indigence, would sanction a belief in
this account; he protected the whole family, but particularly the sons, and he caused Napoleon
to be placed at the Military School of Brienne, where he supplied him with money. This money
was never spent among his companions, but went to purchase mathematical books and instruments,
and to assist him in erecting fortifications. The only times when he deigned to amuse himself
with others was during the attacks of these fortifications, and immediately on these being
finished, he would retire and shut himself up among his books and mathematical instruments.
He was, when a boy, always morose, tyrannical and domineering. "[11]Il motrait dans ces jeux
cet esprit de domination qu'il a depuis manifestée sur le grand theatre du monde; et celui
qui devoit un jour epouvanter l'Europe a commencè par etre le maitre et l'effroi d'une troupe
d'enfans[12]."

He left the military college with the rank of lieutenant of artillery, and bearing a character
which was not likely to recommend him among good men. He had very early displayed principles
of a most daring nature. In a conversation with the master of the academy, some discussion
having taken place on the subject of the difficulty of governing a great nation, the young
Corsican remarked, "that the greatest nations were as easily managed as a school of boys, but
that kings always studied to make themselves beloved, and thus worked their own ruin." The
infant despot of France was certainly determined that no such foolish humanity should dictate
rules to his ambition. He was once in a private company, where a lady making some remarks on
the character of Marshal Turenne, declared that she would have loved him had he not burned
the Palatinate. "And of what consequence was that, Madame," said the young Napoleon, "provided
it assisted his plans?" We may here trace the same unfeeling heart that ordered the explosion
of the magazine of Grenelle, which, if his orders had been executed, must have laid Paris in
ruins. Some of my readers may, perhaps, not have seen an authentic statement of this most horrid
circumstance, I shall therefore give a translation of the letter of Maillard Lescourt, major
of artillery, taken from the Journal des Debats of the 7th April: "I was employed, on the evening
before the attack of Paris, in assembling the horses necessary for the removal of the artillery,
and was assisted in this duty by the officers of the 'Direction Generale.' At nine at night
a colonel gallopped up to the gate of the grating of St Dominique, where I was standing, and
asked to speak to the Directeur d'Artillerie. On my being shewn to him, he immediately asked
me if the powder magazine at Grenelle bad been evacuated? I replied that it had not, and that
there was neither time nor horses for the purpose. Then, Sir, said he, it must be blown up.
I turned pale, and trembled, not reflecting that there was no occasion to distress myself for
an order which was not written, and with the bearer of which I was unacquainted. Do you hesitate?
said the Colonel.--It immediately occurred to me, that the same order might be given to others,
if I did not accept of it; I therefore calmly replied to him, that I should immediately set
about it. Become master of this frightful secret, I entrusted it to no one." At Paris we met
with persons of much respectability, who vouched for the truth of this statement.

There can be no doubt that this order was given by Napoleon, for at this time the other ruling
authorities had left Paris. It is by no means inconsistent with the character of the man; never,
in any instance, has he been known to value the lives of men, where either ambition or revenge
instigated him. Beauchamp, in his history of the last campaign, gives the following anecdote;[13]
"Sire, (lui disoit un general, en le felicitant sur la victoire de Montmirail), quel beau jour,
si nous ne voyions autour de nous tant de villes et de pays devastès. Tant mieux, replique
Napoleon, cela me donne des soldats!!"

The second capture of Rheims in that campaign was an object of little consequence to him, but
he now determined it should suffer by fire and sword. From the heights he looked down on the
town, then partly on fire, and smiling said, [14]"Eh bien, dans une heure les dames de Rheims
auront grand peur." His resentment against the towns that declared for the Bourbons was beyond
all bounds; The following account of the murder of the unfortunate De Goualt is taken from
Beauchamp's interesting work:[15] "On le saisit, on le conduit à l'hotel de ville, devant une
commission militaire, qui proçede à son jugement, on plutôt à sa condamnation. Une heure s'etait
à peine ecoulee qu'un officier survient se fait ouvrir les portes, et demande si la sentence
est prononçee. Les juges vont aller aux voix, dit on. "Qu'on le fusille, sur le champ," dit
l'officier; "l'Empereur l'ordonne." Le malhereux Goualt est condamne. Le deuil est génerale
dans la ville. Le proprietaire de la maison, qu'avoit choisi Bonaparte pour y etablir son quartier,
solicite une audience; il l'obtient. "Sire, (dit Monsieur du Chatel à Napoleon), un jour de
triomphe doit etre un jour de clemence. Je viens de supplier votre Majesté d'accorder à toute
la ville de Troyes la grace d'un de nos malheureux compatriotes qui vient d'etre condamne a
mort." "Sortez," dit le tyran, d'un air faronche, "Vous oubliez qui vous etes chez moi." Il
etait onze heures et cet infortune sortait de l'hotel de ville, escorte par des gens-d'armes,
portant, attache à son dos, et à sa poitrine un ecriteau en gros caracteres, dans ces mots,
"Traitre a la patrie," qu'on lisait à la lueur des flambeaux. Le dechirant et lugubre cortege
se dirigeait vers la place du marche destine aux executions criminelles. La on veut bander
les yeux au condamne. Il s'y refuse, et dit d'une voix ferme qu'il saura mourir pour son Roi.
Lui meme donne le signal de tirer et c'est en criant, "Vive le Roi! Vive Louis XVIII!" qu'il
rend le dernier soupir."

Tacitus, in describing the Corsicans, gives us three of the principal ingredients in the character
of Napoleon, when he says, [16]"Ulcisci, prima lex est, altera, mentiri, tertia, negare Deos."
To these we may add unlimited ambition, insatiable vanity, considerable courage at times, and
the most dastardly cowardice at others. It must be owned, that this last is an extraordinary
mixture; but I am inclined to believe, in despite of the many proofs of rash and impetuous
courage, that Napoleon was in the main, and whenever life and existence was at stake, a cool
and selfish coward. His rival Moreau always thought so. Immediately before the campaign of
Dresden, in a conversation on Napoleon's character, this General observed, [17]"Ce qui characterise
cet homme, ce'st le mensonge et l'amour de la vie; Je vais l'attaquer, je le battrai, et je
le verrai a mes pieds me demander la vie."--It pleased Providence that a part only of this
prediction should be accomplished; but we have seen that Bonaparte dared not court the death
of Moreau. Never was more decided cowardice shewn by any man than by Napoleon after the entry
of the allies into Paris. How easily might he have fought his way, with a numerous band of
determined followers, who, to the last minute, never failed him; but he preferred remaining
to beg for his life, and to attend to the removal of his wines and furniture!! But we must
proceed more regularly in developing the traits of this extraordinary man. A gentleman of Aix,
one of whose near relations had the charge of Napoleon, when his character was suspected at
Toulon, gave me the following particulars of his first employment. During the siege of Toulon,
he had greatly distinguished himself, and had applied to the "Commissaires de Convention,"
who at that time possessed great power in the army, to promote him; but these men detesting
Bonaparte's character, refused his request.--On this occasion, General De Gominier said to
them, [18]"Avancez cet officier; car si vous ne l'avancez pas, il saura bien s'avancer lui
meme." The Commissaries could no longer refuse, and Bonaparte was appointed colonel of artillery.
Shortly after this, having got into some scrape from his violent and turbulent disposition,
he was put under arrest; and it was even proposed that he should be tried and executed (a necessary
consequence of a trial at that period). His situation at this time was extremely unpromising;
Robespierre and his accomplices, Daunton, St Juste, Barrere, &c. were all either put to death
or forced to conceal themselves. Bonaparte now perceived, that for the accomplishment of his
views, it was necessary that he should forsake his haughty and domineering tone, and flatter
those in power. He immediately commenced a series of intrigues, and by the assistance of his
friends at Paris, and that good fortune which has always befriended him, he soon found an opportunity
of extricating himself from the danger which surrounded him. Barras, who was then at the head
of the administration, under the title of Directeur, alarmed by the distracted state of Paris,
and dreading the return of the Bourbons, assembled a council of his friends and associates
in crime; it was then determined that an attack should immediately be made on the Parisian
royalists, or, as the gentleman who gave me this account expressed it, [19]"Dissiper les royalistes,
et foudroyer les Parisiens jusque dans leurs foyers."

But where were they to find a Frenchman who would take upon him the execution of so barbarous
an order? One of the meeting mentioned Bonaparte, and his well-known character determined the
directors in their choice. He was ordered to Paris, and the hand of Madame Beauharnois, and
the command of the army of Italy, held out to him as the reward of his services, provided he
succeeded in dissipating the royalists. It is well known that he did succeed to his utmost
wish; the streets of Paris were strewed with dead bodies, and the power of the Directory was
proclaimed by peals of artillery.

Shortly after this, Bonaparte commenced that campaign in Italy, in which he so highly signalised
himself as a great general and a brave soldier. It is the general opinion of the French that
this was the only campaign in which Napoleon shewed personal courage; others allege, that he
continued to display the greatest bravery till the siege of Acre. To reconcile the different
opinions with respect to the character of Napoleon in this point, is a matter of much difficulty.
After having heard the subject repeatedly discussed by officers who had accompanied him in
many of his campaigns; after having read all the pamphlets of the day, I am inclined to think
that the character given of him in that work, perhaps erroneously believed to be written by
his valet, is the most just. This book certainly contains much exaggeration, but it is by no
means considered, by the French whom I have met, as a forgery. The author must, from his style,
be a man of some education; and he asserts that he was with him in all his battles, from the
battle of Marengo to the campaign of Paris. He declares, that Napoleon was courageous only
in success, brave only when victorious; that the slightest reverse made him a coward. His conduct
in Egypt, in abandoning his army, his barbarous and unfeeling flight from Moscow, and his last
scene at Fontainbleau, are sufficient proofs of this.

The battle of Marengo is generally instanced as the one in which Napoleon shewed the greatest
personal courage; but this statement neither agrees with the account given in the above work,
nor by Monsieur Gaillais. From the work of the last mentioned gentleman, entitled "Histoire
de Dix huit Brumaire," I shall extract a few lines on the subject of this battle.[20] "A la
pointe du jour les Autrichiens commencerent l'attaque, dabord assez lentement, plus vivement
ensuite, et enfin avec une telle furie que les Français furent enfoncès de tous cotès. Dans
ce moment affreux ou les morts et les mourants jonchaiènt la terre, le premier Consul, placè
au milieu de sa garde, semblait immuable, insensible, et comme frappè de la foudre. Vainement
les generaux lui depechaient coup sur coup leurs Aides de Camp, pour demander des secours;
vainement les Aides de Camp attendaient les ordres; il n'endonnait aucune; il donnait a peine
signe de la vie. Plusieurs penserent que croyant la battaille perdue, il voulut se faire tuer.
D'autres, avec plus de raison, se persuaderent qu'il avoit perdu la tête, et qu'il ne voyait
et n'entendait plus rien de se qui se disoit et de ce qui se passait autour de lui. Le General
Berthier vint le prier instamment de se retirer; au lieu de lui repondre il se coucha par terre.
Cependant les Français fuyerent a toutes jambes, la bataille etoit perdue lorsque tout a coup
on entendait dire que le General Dessaix arrive avec une division de troupes fraiches. Bientot
apres on le voit paroitre lui meme a leur tête; les fuyards se ralliaient derrierè ses colonnes--leur
courage est revenuè--la chance tourne--les Français attaquent a leur tour avec la meme furie
qu'ils avoient etê attaquè--et brulent d'effacer la honte de leur defaite du matin."

Desaix fell in this battle, and the whole glory of it was given to Napoleon. The last words
of this gallant man were these: [21]"Je meurs avec le regret de n'avoir pas assez vecu pour
ma patrie.".

This account of Napoleon's behaviour at Marengo was confirmed to me at Aix, by two French officers
of rank who had been present at the battle.

I do not mean to give a life of Napoleon; ere a year is past, I have not a doubt that we shall
have but too many; indeed, already they are not wanting in England. I mean only to give such
anecdotes as are not so generally known, and to attempt an explanation of the two most interesting
circumstances in his career, viz. the means he has employed in his aggrandisement, and the
causes of his downfall. It is only when we survey the extent of his power, without reflecting
on the gradual steps which led to it, that we are astonished and confounded; for, in reality,
when his means are considered, and the state of France at the time is placed before our eyes,
much of the difficulty vanishes; and we perceive, that any daring character, making use of
the same means, might have arrived at the same end. It is foolish to deny him (as many of his
biographers do), great military talent, for that he certainly possessed, as long as his good
fortune allowed him to display it. This talent he not only evinced in the formation of his
plans, but in the execution also. No man knew better the means of calling forth the inexhaustible
military resources of France. The people of that country were always brave; but Bonaparte alone
knew how to make them all soldiers. The desire of glory has ever characterized the nation,
and the state of tyranny and oppression in which they were kept under his government, had no
effect in diminishing this passion. The French people under Napoleon furnish a striking exception
to the maxim of Montesquieu, when he says, [22]"On peut poser pour maxime, que dans chaque
etat le desir de la gloire existe avec la liberté de sujets, et diminue avec elle; la gloire
n'est jamais compagne de la servitude."

The French forget their misfortunes almost immediately. After the campaign of Moscow, one would
have thought that the hardships they endured might have given them a sufficient disgust, and
that it was likely they would forsake one who shewed so little feeling for them. I happened
once to meet with several of the poor wretches who had been with him; they were then on their
road home; most of them were entirely disabled; one had his toes frozen off--they declared
that they would again fight under him if they were able. At one of the inns, I met with a young
officer who had also been with him at Moscow: I happened to enquire how they could bear the
cold? "We were as comfortable," said he, "as you and I are at this fire-side." The poor fellow
was not twenty-one years old. [23]"La jeunesse d'aujour-d'hui est elevee dans d'autres principes;
l'amour de la gloire sur tout a jetè des profondes racines; il est devenu l'attribut le plus
distinctif du caractere national, exaltè par vingt ans de succes continues. Mais cette gloire
meme etoit devenue notre idole, elle absorboit toutes les pensees des braves mis hors-de-combat
par leurs blessures, toutes les esperances des jeunes gens qui faisaient leur premieres armes.
Un coup imprevu l'a frappè, nous trouvons dans nos cœurs une vide semblable a celui qui trouve
un amant qui a perdu l'objet de sa passion; tout se qu'il voit, tout ce qu'il entende renouvelle
sa douleur. Ce sentiment rend notre situation vague et penible; chacun cherche a se dissimuler
la place qu'il sente exister au fond de son cœur. On le regarde comme humilie, apres vingt
ans des triomphes continues, pour avoir perdu une seule partie malhereusement etait la partie
d'honneur; et qui a fait la regle de nos destinees."--Such is the language of the military.

In conversation one evening with one of the noblesse, who had suffered in the revolution, he
told me that this military spirit extended not only to all ranks and professions, but to all
ages. He said that the young men in the schools refused to learn any thing but mathematics
and the science of arms; and that he recollected many instances of boys ten and twelve years
of age, daily entreating their fathers and mothers to permit them to join Napoleon. It was
in vain to represent to them the hardships they must suffer; their constant reply was, "If
we die, we will at least find glory." Read the campaign of Moscow, said another gentleman to
me, you will there see the French character:[24] "Les François sont les seuls dans l'univers
qui pourroient rire meme en gelant."

Napoleon certainly greatly encreased the military spirit of the people: Before his time, you
heard of commerce, of agriculture, of manufactures, as furnishing the support of the community;
under him, you heard of nothing but war. The rapid destruction of the population of France
occasioned constant promotion, and the army became the most promising profession. It was a
profession in which no education was wanting--to which all had access. Bonaparte never allowed
merit to go unrewarded. The institution of the Legion of Honour alone was an instrument in
his hands of sufficient power to call forth the energy of a brave people; to this rank even
the private soldier might arrive. In this organization of the army, therefore, we may trace
his first means of success.

The next was his military tactique:--The great and simple principle on which this was founded,
is evident in every one of the pitched battles which he gained;--he out-numbered his opponents,--he
sacrificed a troop,--a battalion,--a division,--or a whole army without bestowing a moment's
thought. Bonaparte has sometimes, though very seldom, shewn that his heart could be touched,
but never, on any occasion, did the miserable display of carnage in the field of battle call
forth these feelings; never was he known to pity his soldiers. On seeing a body of fresh recruits
join the army, his favourite expression was always, [25]"Eh bien, voyez encore de matiere premiere,
du chair a cannon." After a battle, when he rode over the ground, he would smile, and say,
[26]"Ma foi, voyez une grande consommation." The day after the battle of Prusse-Eylau, his
valet thus describes his visit to the field of blood: [27]"Il faisoit un froid glacial, des
mourants respiroient encore; la foule des cadavres et les cavitès noiratres qui le sang des
hommes avoit laisse dans la neigè faisoit un affreux contraste. L'etat Major etoit peniblement
affectè. L'Empereur seul contemplait froidement cette scene de deuil et de sang. Je poussai
mon cheval quelques pas devant le sien; j'etois eurieux de l'observer dans un pareil moment.
Vous eussiez dit qu'il etoit alors detachè de toutes les affections humaines, que tout ce qui
l'environnait n'existoit pour lui. Il parloit tranquillement des evenemens de la veille. En
passant devant une groupe des grenadiers Russes massacrès, le cheval d'un Aide-de-Camp avoit
peur. Le Prince l'appercevait: "Ce cheval, lui dit il, froidement, est un lache."

It cannot be doubted that such a man would sacrifice regiment after regiment to obtain his
purpose; we may indeed wonder, that when known to possess such a heart, he was obeyed by his
men: But a little thought, a little reflection on the means he took to ingratiate himself with
his troops will remove this difficulty. Look also at his dispatches, his proclamations, and
orders; they appear the effusion of the father of a family addressing his children: "Their
country required the sacrifices, which he deplored." All thought is at an end when they are
thus attacked on their weak side. At other times, the hope of plunder was held out to them.
The words, glory, honour, their country, laurels, immortal fame--these words, fascinating to
the ear of any people, are more peculiarly so to the French. When conversing with an old French
officer, who had served under the Prince of Condè in the emigrant army, on this subject, he
made this remark: "Sir, you do not know the French; assemble them together, and having pronounced
the words glory, honour and your country, point to the moon, and you will have an army ready
to undertake the enterprise." Napoleon was well aware of this weakness of the French. He would
ride through the ranks on the eve of a battle, would recall their former victories to one body;
make promises to a second; joke with a third,--cold, distant, and forbidding at all other times,
he is described as affable in the extreme on all such occasions. The meanest soldier might
then address him.

The rapid military promotion may be given as another cause of Napoleon's success. The most
distinguished corps were, of course, the greatest sufferers; and the young man who joined the
army, as a lieutenant, on the eve of an action, was a captain the next day, perhaps a colonel
before he had seen a year's service. [28]"Des ouvriers sortis de leurs atteliers (says Monsieur
Gaillais in his "Histoire de Dix Huit Brumaire,") des paysans echappes de villages, avec un
bonnet sur la tête et un baton a la main, devenaient au bout de six mois des soldats intrepides,
et au bout de deux ans des officiers agueris, et des generaux redoubtables au plus anciens
generaux de l'Europe." Nothing struck me more forcibly than the youth of the French officers.
The generals only are veterans, for Bonaparte well knew, that experience is as necessary as
courage in a General.

Next, we may direct our attention to the means which this despot possessed, by filling the
war department with his own creatures; by giving liberal salaries and unlimited power to the
prefects of the different departments, he amassed both troops and pay to support them. The
tyrannic measures for levying these became at last insupportable; the people were rising in
the villages, and by force of arms rescuing their companions; and it is very probable that
he might have found, latterly, a want of men; but for years he has had at his disposal three
hundred thousand men annually. In describing the effects of the conscription, one of the members
of the Senate made use of the following expression:--[29]"On moissonne les homines trois fois
l'anneé."

With such supplies, what single power could resist him? War with him became a mere mechanical
calculation. Among the causes of his elevation, the use he made of the other continental Powers
must not be forgotten; whether gained by corruption, treachery, or force, they all became his
allies; they were all compelled to assist him with troops. When the Sovereigns of these countries
consented to his plans, they were permitted to govern their own kingdoms, otherwise the needy
family of Bonaparte supplied the roitelets at a moment's warning. These little monarchs, he
is said to have treated with the utmost contempt.

My readers may perhaps be inclined to smile, when I mention among the causes of Napoleon's
elevation, the use made by him of ballad-singers, newsmongers, pedlars, &c. But really, on
a deliberate view of his system of juggling and deception, I am inclined to believe, that it
was one of his most powerful engines. The people of France are not only the most vain, but
the most credulous in the world. To work on their feelings, he kept in constant pay author
of every description, from the man who composed the Vaudeville, which was sold for half a sous,
to the authors of the many clever political pamphlets which daily appear in France: for the
dissemination of these, he had agents, not only in France, but in distant countries. When he
aimed at the subjugation of any part of the continent, his first endeavour was always to disseminate
seditious and inflammatory pamphlets against its Government. It is never doubted in France,
that even in England, he had his emissaries.

Editors of newspapers, in every part of the globe, were in his pay. The method in which the
newspaper, called the Argus, was published, is an extraordinary proof of this fact. The Argus,
whose principal object was to abuse the English, was first of all written in French, by one
of the "Commissaires de Police;" it was then translated into English, and a few copies were
circulated in this language, to keep up the idea, that it was smuggled over from England; after
these found their way, the French copy, or in other words, the original, was widely circulated.
A more infamous trick can scarce be conceived. Extracts from this paper were, by express order
of Napoleon, published in every French paper. Nothing was considered by him as beneath his
notice. He encouraged dancing, feasting, gaming. The theatres, concerts, public gardens, were
under his protection. The traiteurs, the keepers of caffès, of brothels, of ale-houses, the
limonadiers, and the wine-merchants, were his particular favourites. His object in this was,
to produce a degree of profligacy in the public manners, and a disgust at industry; and the
consequence was, the resort of all ranks to the army, as the easiest and most lucrative profession.

With regard to the many other causes which will suggest themselves to my readers in reading
a history of his campaigns, I shall say nothing; for on all of these, as well as on the causes
of his downfall, which I shall merely enumerate, I leave them to make their own observations.
I have already been very tedious, and have yet much to observe on different points of his character.

To the last rigorous measures for the conscription, to the institution of the "Droits Reunis;"
to the formation of the garde d'honneur; and to his attack on the religion of France, Bonaparte
owed his first unpopularity. The hatred of the French is as impetuous as their admiration.
They exclaimed against every measure when they were once exasperated against him: still he
had many friends; still he possessed an army which kept the nation in awe. This army he chose
to sacrifice in Spain and Russia. The nation could no longer supply him, and the strong coalition
which took place against him, was not to be repelled by a broken-down army. His military talent
seemed latterly to have forsaken him, and never was the expulsion of a tyrant so easily accomplished.

His excessive vanity never left him--of this, the Moniteur for the last ten years is a sufficient
proof; but in reading the accounts of him, I was particularly struck with the instances which
follow.

Anxious to impress on the minds of the Directors, the necessity of the expedition to Egypt,
he made a speech, in which the meanest flattery was judiciously mingled with his usual vanity.
[30]"Ce n'est que sous un gouvernement aussi sage aussi grand que le votre, qu'un simple soldat
tel que moi pouvait conçevoir le projet de porter la guerre en Egypte.--Oui, Directeurs, à
peine serais je maitre d'Egypte, et des solitudes de la Palestine, que l'Angleterre vous donnera
un vaisseau de premier bord pour un sac de bled."

Some days before his celebrated appearance among the "Cinq Cents," his friends advised him
to repair thither well armed, and attended with troops. [31]"Si je me presente avec des troupes
(disait Napoleon), c'est pour complaire à mes amis, car en verité j'ai la plus grande envie
d'y paraitre comme fit jadis Louis XIV. au Parlement, en bottes, et un fouet à la main."

In his speech to the Corps Legislatif, on the 1st of January 1814, he made use of the following
words at the close of an oration, composed of the same unmeaning phrases, strung together in
fifty different shapes. [32]"Je suis de ces homines qu'on tue, mais qu'on ne dishonore pas.
Dans trois mois nous aurons la paix, ou l'enemi sera chasse de notre territoire--ou, je serai
mort."

A further specimen of Napoleon's style, will, I think, amuse my readers; I shall, therefore,
copy out an extract of his speech to the Legislative Body: [33]"Je vous ai appellè autour de
moi pour faire le bien, vous avez fait le mal, vous avez entre vous des gens devouès à l'Angleterre,
qui correspondent avec le Prince Regent par l'entremise de l'avocat Deseze. Les onze-douziemes
parmi vous sont bons; les autres sont des factieux. Retournez dans vos departments;--je vous
y suivrai de l'œil. Je suis un homme qu'on peut tuer, mais qu'on nè saurait deshonnorer. Quel
est celui d'entre vous qui pouvait supporter le fardeau du pouvoir; il a ecrasè l'Assemble
Constituante, qui dicta des loix à un monarque faible. Le Fauxbourg St Antoine nous aurait
secondé, mais il vous est bientot abandonnè. Que sont devenus les Jacobins, les Girondins,
les Vergniaux, les Guadets, et tant d'autres? Ils sont morts. Vous avez cherché à me barbouiller
aux gens de la France. C'est un attentat;--qu'est que le trone, au reste? Quatre morçeaux de
bois dorè recouverts de velours. Je vous avais indiqué un Commité Secret; c'etait là qu'il
fallait laver notre linge. J'ai un titre, vous n'en avez point. Qui etes vous dans la Constitution?
Vous n'avez point d'autorite. C'est le Trone qui est la Constitution. Tout est dans le trone
et dans moi. Je vous le repete, vous avez parmi vous des factieux. Monsieur Laisnè est un mechant
homme; les autres sont des factieux. Je les connais, et je les poursuivrai. Je vous le demande,
Etait ce cependant que les ennemies sont chez nous qu'il fallait faire de pareilles choses?
La nature m'a doué d'un courage fort; il peut resister à tout. Il en a beaucoup coutè a mon
orgueil, je l'ai sacrifiè. Je suis au dessus de vos miserables declamations. J'avais demandé
des consolations et vous m'avez dishonoré. Mais non; mes victoires ecrasent vos criailleries.
Je suis de ceux qui triomphent ou qui meurent. Retournez dans vos departments."

The vanity of Napoleon led him to suppose that he was fitted to lay down the law to the most
eminent among the French philosophers; that he could improve the French language, the theatre,
the state of society, the public seminaries, the weights and measures of the realm. He meddled,
in short, with every thing. Under the walls of Moscow, he composed a proclamation in the morning,
declaring that he would soon dictate a code of laws to the Russians; and, in the evening, he
dictated a code of regulations for the theatres of Paris. His ardent wish was, to have it thought
that he had time and capacity for every thing. It arose from this, that he trusted to no one,
and having himself every thing to do, that he did nothing well. If he went to visit a college,
he prepared Latin and Greek sentences for the occasion; in many of his speeches he introduced
scrapes of classic lore. His love of Greek terms is admirably described in a little epigram,
made on his new tarif of weights and measures, in which the grams and killograms, and metres
and killometres are introduced.

    Les Grecs pour nous ont tant d'attraits
    Qui pour se faire bien entendre,
    Et pour comprendre le Français
    Ce'st le Greque qu'il faut apprendre.

He was particularly anxious that his police should be perfect. He pursued, for the accomplishment
of his views, the same plan so successfully employed under the celebrated Sartine. He had spies
in every private family, and every rank and denomination. These he did not employ as Sartine
did, for the detection of thieves and robbers; with him, the dreadful machine of espionage
was organised, in order that he might always know the state of public feeling; that knowing
also the character of each individual, he might be the better able to select instruments fit
for his purposes. Fouche had brought this system to the utmost perfection. Bonaparte distrusted
him, and demanded proofs of his activity. Fouche desired him to appoint a day, on which he
should give him a full account of every action performed by him. The day was appointed, the
utmost precaution was used by the Emperor; but the spies gave an account of his every action
from six in the morning till eight at night. They refused to inform Fouche what had become
of Bonaparte after eight; but said, that if the Emperor desired it, they would inform him in
person. The Emperor did not press the subject farther, but confessed that he had not spent
the remainder of the evening in the best of company. Ever after this he was satisfied with
the state of the police. To give some idea of the activity of this system, I may mention a
curious anecdote, which I received from our banker: One of the most respectable bankers in
Paris, whose name I have forgot, was sitting at supper with his chief commis or clerk. They
were served by one faithful old servant, who, during 30 years, had been tried, and had always
been found worthy of confidence. The conversation turned on the subject of the last campaign--this
was before the campaign of Paris. The commis happened to remark, that he thought Bonaparte's
career was nearly finished, and that he would meet his fate presently. The next morning the
banker received a letter from the Police Department, instructing him to order the departure
of his commis from Paris within 24 hours, and from France within a month.

The same gentleman gave me a genuine edition of the celebrated story of Sartine's stopping
the travellers at the gates of Paris. It may amuse my readers, although, I dare say, they have
seen it before in other shapes.

A very rich lace merchant from Brussels, was in the habit of constantly frequenting the fair
of St Denis. On these occasions, he repaired to Paris in the public diligence, accompanied
by his trunks of lace. He had apartments at an hotel in the Rue des Victoires, which he had
for many years occupied; and to secure which, he used always to write some weeks before. An
illness had prevented his visiting the fair during two years; on the third, he wrote as usual
to his landlord, and received an answer, that the death of the landlord had occasioned a change
in the firm and tenants of the house; but that he was well known to them, and that they would
keep for him his former rooms, and would do their utmost to give him satisfaction.

The merchant set out--arrived at the barrier of Paris; the diligence was stopped, and a gentleman
whom he had never seen before, accosted him by name, and desired him to alight. The merchant
was a good deal surprised at this; but you may judge of his alarm, when he heard an order given
to the conducteur to unloose numbers one, two, three--the trunks, in which was contained his
whole fortune. The gentleman desired he would not be afraid, but trust every thing to him.
The diligence was ordered away, and the lace merchant, in a state of agony, was conveyed by
his new acquaintance to the house of Monsieur de Sartine. He there began an enumeration of
his grievances, but was civilly interrupted by M. de Sartine--"Sir, you have not much reason
to complain; but for your visit to me here, you would have been murdered this night at twelve."
The minister then detailed to him the plan that had been laid for his murder, and astonished
him by shewing a copy, not only of the letter which he had written to the landlord of the hotel,
but also the answer returned by the landlord. Monsieur de Sartine then begged that he would
place the most implicit confidence in him, and remain in his house until he should recover
himself from his fright. He would then return to the coach in waiting, and would be attended
to the hotel by one of his emissaries as valet. The merchant told him that the people of the
house would not be deceived by a stranger, for they were well acquainted with all his concerns,
and even with his writing. "Examine your attendant," said M. de Sartine; "you will find him
well instructed, and he speaks your dialect as you do yourself." A few questions convinced
the merchant that the minister had made a good selection. M. de Sartine then described the
reception he would meet with, the rooms he was to occupy, the persons he should see, and laid
down directions for his conduct; telling him, at the same time, that if at a loss, he should
consult his attendant. On his arrival at the inn, every thing shewed the wonderful correctness
of the information. His reception was kind as ever. Dinner was served up; and the merchant,
according to his practice, engaged himself till a late hour in his usual occupations. The valet
played his part to a miracle, and saw his master to bed, after repeating to him the instructions
of Monsieur de Sartine. The merchant, as may well be supposed, did not sleep much. At twelve,
a trap door in the floor opened gently, and a man ascended into the apartment, having a dark
lanthorn in one hand, and in the other, some small rings of iron, used for gagging people to
prevent their speaking. He had just ascended, when the valet knocked him down and secured him;
the room was immediately filled with the officers of the police. The house had been surrounded
to prevent escape; and in a cellar under the room where the merchant had slept, and which communicated
with the trap door, were found the master, mistress, and all the members of the gang--they
were all secured.

Let us proceed with the character of Napoleon. All the world is well acquainted with his vices;
it is less probable that they have ever heard of his virtues, of his having shown that he felt
as a man. The following instance is authentic:

After the capture of Berlin, the command of the city was given to one of the Prussian generals,
who had sworn fidelity to Bonaparte. This officer betrayed his trust, and communicated to the
King of Prussia all the information which he obtained of the motions of the French army. Bonaparte
obtained sufficient proof of his crime, by intercepted letters. The officer was arrested, a
military trial was ordered, and sentence of death pronounced. The wife of the officer threw
herself at the feet of Bonaparte, and implored the life of her husband. He was touched, and
drawing out from his pocket the letters which proved the crime, he tore them to pieces, saying,
that in thus destroying the proofs of his guilt, he deprived himself of the power of afterwards
punishing it. The officer was immediately released.

If Napoleon did not possess feeling, or even common humanity, he was at least anxious that
the people of France should believe that he had these good qualities. It is said that, on the
evening before he left Paris on his last campaign, he sent for the tragedian Talma, and had
taught to him the action, features and aspect which he the next day employed when he left his
wife and child to the care of the national guard. The following scene will at once show his
desire to be esteemed generous, and his utter meanness of character:--[34]"Un de ses Ministres
l'aborde un jour et lui presente un rapport qu'il avait desiré; il s'agissait d'une conspiration
contre sa personne. J'etais present à cette scene. Je m'attendais, je l'avoue, à le voir entrer
en fureur, fulminer contre les traitres, menacer les magistrats, et les accuser de negligence.
Point du tout; il parcourt le papier sans donner le moindre signe d'agitation. Jugez de ma
surprise, ou plutôt quelle douce emotion j'eprouvais quand il fit entendre ces paroles touchantes
et sublimes:--"Monsieur le Comte, l'etat n'a point souffert; les magistrats n'ont point etè
insultés; ce n'est donc qu'à ma personne qu'ils en voulaient; je les plains de ne point savoir
que tous mes vœux tendent au bonheur de la France; mais tout homme peut s'egarer. Dites aux
ingrats que je leurs pardonne. Mons. le Conte aneantissez la procedure." Maintenant je defie
le royaliste le plus fidele qui seroit temoin d'un proçede si magnanime, de ne point dire,
si le ciel dans sa colere devait un usurpateur a la France; remercions d'avoir du celui ci.
Arrete malhereux, tes yeux ont vu, tes oreilles ont entendu, ne crois rien de tout; mais deux
jours apres trouve toi, au lever de ce hero, si magnanime, si peu avide de se veuger--on ouvre,
le voici, la foule des courtisans l'environne, tout le monde fixe les yeux sur lui. Sa figure
est decomposée, tous les muscles de son visage sont en contraction, tout son ensemble est farouche
et colere. Un silence funebre regne dans l'assemblée. Le Prince n'a point encore parlè, mais
il promene des regardes sur la groupe: il appeicoit le meme officier, qui deux jours avant
lui avait presente le rapport, "Monsieur le Conte, (dit il), ces laches conspirateurs sont
ils executés? Leurs complices sont ils aux fers? Les bourreaux on ils donnè un nouvel example
a qui voudrait imiter ceux qui veuleut a ma personne?"

A distinguishing feature in Napoleon's character was unnecessary cruelty; of this the campaign
in Moscow, (of which Labaume's narrative is a true though highly-coloured picture), the slaughter
of the Turks in Egypt, the poisoning of his invalids, and the death of every one who stood
in his way, are sufficient and notorious proofs. St Cloud was in general the scene of his debaucheries.
The following anecdote was related by Count Rumford to a gentleman of my acquaintance, and
may be depended on as correct; for at the time that it happened, Count Rumford was in lodgings
on the spot. Napoleon had brought from Paris a beautiful girl belonging to the opera; he had
carried her into one of the arbours of the garden. Many of the little boys about St Cloud were
in habits of climbing up among the trees, whether merely as a play, or from curiosity to see
the Emperor. On leaving the arbour with his favourite, Napoleon saw one of these boys perched
upon a high tree above him. He flew straight to one of the gates, and bringing the sentinel
who was stationed there, he pointed out the boy, exclaiming, "Tirez sur ce b---- la." The order
was executed, and the boy never more seen.

But for no one act did he incur the hatred of the French in such a degree as for the murder
of the Duke d'Enghien; in committing this crime, not only the laws of humanity, but the laws
of nations were violated.

This branch of the Royal Family was under a foreign power; he could by no means be esteemed
a subject of Bonaparte. Even the family of Bonaparte, who, (as we shall presently see), did
not possess many good qualities, were shocked with this crime; they reproached him with it;
and Lucien said to him, [35]"Vous voulez dont nous faire trainer sur la claye."

The treatment of the Pope, of Pichegru, of Georges, of Moreau, furnish us with further instances
of his cruelty. Bonaparte did his utmost to make the Parisians believe that Moreau was connected
with Pichegru in the conspiracy to establish the Bourbons on the throne. This was totally false.
But Napoleon, jealous of a rival like Moreau, could not bear that he should live. Moreau's
bold and unbending character hastened his downfall. He always called the flat-bottomed boats,
[36]"Ces coquilles de noix;" and after an excellent dinner which he gave at Paris to many of
his fellow Generals, in mockery of the [37]"Epées d'honneur, fusils d'honneur," &c, which Bonaparte
at this time distributed; Moreau sent for his cook, and with much ceremony invested him with
a [38]"casserole d'honneur."

There are many interesting traits of this noble character, which, if I had time, I should wish
to give my readers. When he had been condemned to imprisonment for two years, by the express
orders of Bonaparte, the impression made on the mind of the soldiery, of the judges, and of
all the court, was such, that they seemed insensible to what was going on. Nobody was found
to remove him from the bar; he descended the stairs of the court; walked down the street amid
a crowd of admirers; and instead of escaping, as he easily might, he called a coach, and ordered
the coachman to drive to the Temple. When arrived there, he informed the Governor of his sentence,
and its execution. My readers will, I am sure, be pleased with a few extracts from the account
of Moreau's death, given by his friends, M. Breton de la Martiniere and M. Rapatel:

"Moreau conversait avec l'Empereur Alexandre, dont il n'etait separé que le demi longueur d'un
cheval. Il est probable qu'on apperçut de la place ce brillant etat major, et que l'on tira
dessus au hazard. Moreau fut seul frappé. Un boulet lui fraccassa le genou droit et à travers
le flanc du cheval alla emporter le gros de la jambe gauche. Le genereux Alexandre versa des
larmes. Le Colonel Rapatel se preçipitait sur son General. Moreau poussa un long soupir et
s'evanouit. Revenu à lui meme, il parle avec le plus grand sang froid, et dit à Monsieur Rapatel,
"Je suis perdu, mon ami, mais il est si glorieux de mourir pour une si belle cause, et sous
les yeux d'un aussi grand Prince." Péu d'instants apres il dit à l'Empereur Alexandre lui meme,
"Il ne vous reste que le tronc--mais le cœur y est, et la tête est à vous." Il doit souffrir
des douleurs aigus--il demanda une cigare et se mit tranquillement à fumer.

"Mons. Wylie, premier chirurgien de l'Empereur Alexandre, se hata d'amputer la jambe qui etait
la plus mal traiteé. Pendant cette cruelle operation, Moreau montra à peine quelque alteration
dans ses traits et ne cessa point de fumer la cigarre. L'amputation faite, Monsieur Wylie examina
la jambe droite, et la trouva dans un tel etat qu'il ne peut se defendre d'un mouvement d'effroi.
"Je vous entend," dit Moreau, "Il faut encore couper celle ci, eh bien, faites vite. Cependant
j'eusse preferé la mort." Il voulait ecrire à sa femme. Il ecrivait donc d'une main assez ferme
ces propres expressions. "Ma chere amie,--La bataille se decide il y a trois jours.--J'ai eu
les deux jambes emportées d'un boulet de canon--ce coquin de Bonaparte est toujours hereux.
On m'a fait l'amputation aussi bien que possible--l'armée a faite un mouvement retrograde,
ce n'est pas par revers, mais par decousu et pour se rapprocher au General Blucher. Excuse
mon griffonage. Je t'aime et t'embrasse de tout mon cœur. Je charge Rapatel de finir." Pour
affranchir ma patrie du joug affreux qui l'opprime pour ecraser Bonaparte, toutes les armes,
tous les moyens etaient bons. Avec quelle joie j'aurai consacré le peu de talent que je possede
à la cause de l'humanite! Mon cœur appartenoit a la France."

"Vers sept heurs le malade se trouvant seul avec Monsieur Svinine lui dit d'une voix affaiblie--"
Je veux absolument vous dicter une lettre.--Monsieur Svinine prit la plume en gemissant et
traça ce peu de lignes sous la dictée de Moreau.

* * *

"SIRE,--Je descends dans le tombeau avec les memes sentiments de respect, d'admiration, et
de devouement que votre Majesté m'a constamment inspiré, des que j'ai eu le bohheur de m'approcher
de votre personne."

"En pronoçant ces derniers mots, le malade s'interompit et ferma les yeux M. Svinine attendit,
croyant que Moreau meditait sur la suite de sa depeche--Vain espoir--Moreau n'etait plus."[39]

I am impatient to finish the character of Napoleon, and to get upon some other more agreeable
subject. I shall end by giving an account of his last appearance in France, as related to me
by the Sub-Prefect of Aix, who accompanied him on his way from Aix to the coast.--After passing
Montlement, the public feeling began to burst forth against him. The spirit of the Provençals
could not be restrained. In every village was displayed the white cockade, and the fleur de
lis. In one, the villagers were employed at the moment of his passing in hanging him in effigy;
at another they compelled him to call out Vive le Roi, and he obeyed them, while his attendants
refused. For a part of the way he was forced to mount a little poney in the dress of an Austrian
officer. Arrived at the village of La Calade, the following extraordinary scene passed at the
inn--It was also related to me by our banker, who had it from the hostess herself: The landlord
was called for, and a mean-looking figure in plain clothes, with a travelling-cap, and loose
blue pantaloons, asked him if he could have dinner for twenty persons who were coming. "Yes,
(said the landlord), if you take what fare I have; but I trust it is not for that coquin the
Emperor, whom we expect soon here." "No, (said he), it is only for a part of his suite.--Bring
here some wine, and let the people be well served when they arrive." Presently the landlady
entered with the wine, a fine, bold Provençal, and a decided royalist, as all the Provençal
snow are. [40]"Ecoutez, bonne femme, vous attendez l'Empereur n'est pas?" 'Oui, Monsieur, j'espere
que nous le verrons?' "Eh bien, bonne femme, vous autres que dites vous de l'Empereur?" 'Qu'il
est un grand coquin.' "Eh! ma bonne femme, et vous meme que dites vous?" 'Monsieur, voulez
vous que je vous dise franchment ce que je pense: Si j'etais le capitaine du vaisseau, je ne
l'embarquerai que pour le noyer."

The stranger said nothing. After an hour or two, the landlord asked his wife if she would like
to see Bonaparte, for that he was arrived. She was all anxiety to see him. He took her up stairs,
and pointed to the little man in the travelling cap. The surprise of the woman may be conceived.
The Emperor made her approach, and said to her she was a good woman; but that there were many
things told of Bonaparte which were not true.

I shall continue the Sub-Prefect's narrative in his own words:--[41]"Les Commissaires, en arrivant
à Calade, le trouvoient la tête appuyée sur les deux mains, et le visage baignè de larmes.
Il leur dit qu'on en voulait decidement à sa vie; que la maitresse de l'auberge, qui ne l'avait
pas reconnu lui avait declaré que l'Empereur etait detesté comme un scelerat, et qu'on ne l'embarquerait
que pour le noyer. Il ne voulait rien manger ni boire quelque instances qu'on lui fit, et quoiqu'il
dut etre rassurè par l'example de ceux qui etaient a tablé avec lui. Il fit venir de la voiture
du pain et de l'eau qu'il prit avec avidité. On attendait la nuit pour continuer la route;
on n'etait qu'à deux lieues d'Aix. La population de cette ville n'eut pas eté aussi facile
à contenir que celle des villages ou on avait deja couru tant de perils. Monsieur, le Sous-Prefét,
prenant avec lui le Lieutenant des gend'armes et six gend'armes, se mit en route vers la Calade.
La nuit etait obscure, et le temps froid; cette double circonstance protegea Napoleon beaucoup
mieux que n'aurait fait la plus forte escorte. Mons. le Sous-Prefét et la gend'armerie rencontrerent
le cortege peu d'instants apres avoir quitté la Calade, et la suivoient jusqu'à ce qu'ils arriverent
aux portes d'Aix à deux heures du matin. Apres avoir changé les chevaux, Bonaparte continuant
sa route, passa sous les murs de la ville, au milieu des cris repetés de "Vive le Roi," que
firent entendre les habitants accourus sur les remparts. Il arriva a la limite du departement
à une auberge appellee la Grande Prgere, ce fut là qu'il s'arreta pour dejeuner. Le General
Bertrand proposa a Mons. le Sous-Prefét de monter, avant que de partir, dans la chambre des
Commissaires ou tout le monde etait à dejeuner. Il y avoit dix ou douzes personnes. Napoleon
etait du nombre; il avait son costume d'officier Autrichien, et une casque sur la tête. Voyant
le Sous-Prefét an habit d'auditeur, il lui dit, "Vous ne m'auriez pas reconnu sons ce costume?
Ce sont ces Messieurs qui me l'ont fait prendre, le jugeant necessaire à ma sureté. J'aurais
pu avoir une escorte de trois mille homines, qui j'ai refusé, preferant de me fier à la loyauté
Française. Je n'ai pas eu à me plaindre de cette confiance depuis Fontainbleau jusqu'à Avignon;
mais depuis cette ville jusqu'ici j'ai eté insulté,--j'ai couru bien de dangers. Les Provençaux
se dishonnerent. Depuis qui je suis en France je n'ai pas eu un bon battaillon de Provençeaux
sous mes ordres. Ils ne sont bons que pour crier. Les Gascons sont fanfarons, mais au moins
ils sont braves." Sur ces paroles, un des convives, qui etait sans dout Gascon, tira son jabot
et dit en riant, "Cela fait plaisir."

Bonaparte continuant à s'addresser an Sous-Prefét, lui dit, "Que fait le Prefét?" 'Il est parti
à la premiere nouvelle du changement survenu à Paris.' "Et sa femme?" 'Elle etait partie plutôt.'--"Elle
avait donc prit le devant. Paie l'on bien les octrois et les droits reunis?"--'Pas un sou.'--"Y-a-t-il
beaucoup d'Anglais à Marseilles?" Ici Mons. le Sous-Prefét raconta à Bonaparte tout ce qui
s'etait passè naguere dans ce port, et avec quels transports on avait accueilli les Anglais.
Bonaparte, qui ne prenait pas grand plaisir à ce reçit y mit fin en disant au Sous-Prefét,
"Dites à vos Provençaux que l'Empereur est bien mecontent d'eux."

Arrivè a Bouilledon, il se s'enferma dans ua apartment avec sa sœur (Pauline Borghese)--Des
sentinels furent places a la porte. Cependant des dames arriveés dans un galerie qui communiquait
avec cette chambre, y trouverent un militaire en uniform d'officier Autrichien, qui leur dit,
"Que desirez vous voir, Mesdames?" 'Nous voudrions voir Napoleon.' "Mais ce'st moi, Mesdames."
Ces dames le regardant lui dirent en riant, 'Vous plaisantez, Monsieur; ce n'est pas vous qui
etes Napoleon.' "Je vous assure, Mesdames, ce'st moi. Vous vous imaginez donc que Napoleon
avait l'air plus mechant. N'est pas qu'on dit que je suis un scelerat, un brigand?" Les dames
n'eurent garde de le dementir, Bonaparte ne voulant pas trop les presser sur ce point detourna
le conversation. Mais toujours occupé de sa premier idée, il y revint brasquement: "Convenez
en Mesdames, leur dit il, maintenant que la Fortune m'est contraire, on dit que je suis un
coquin, un scelerat, un brigand. Mais savez vous ce que c'est que tout cela? J'ai voula mettre
la France au dessus de l'Angleterre, et j'ai echoué dans ce projet."

CHAPTER IV.

STATE OF FRANCE UNDER NAPOLEON--CONTINUED.

AGRICULTURE.

To one unacquainted with the present division of society, and the condition of each of its
branches in France; to one who had only cast his eye, in travelling, over the immense tracts
of cultivated land, with scarcely an acre of waste to diversify the scene, and who had permitted
first impressions to influence his judgement, it might appear, that in agriculture, France
far excelled every other country in the world. In England, we have immense tracts of common
in many of the counties;--in Scotland; we have our barren hills, our mosses, and moors;--in
America, the cultivation bears but a small proportion to the wilds, the swamps, and the forests.
In our beautiful provinces in the East Indies, the cultivation forms but a speck in the wide
extent of common, and forest, and jungle. Why should France furnish a different spectacle?
Why should the face of the country there wear a continual smile, while its very heart is torn
with faction, and its energies fettered by tyranny? There are many who maintain that this state
of the country is the happy effect of the revolution; but it will, I conceive, not be difficult
to shew, that though certainly a consequence of the great change, it is far from being a happy
one. We surely would not pronounce it a happy state of things, where the interests of all other
branches of the community were sacrificed to promote the welfare of the peasantry alone.

The peasantry, no doubt, when their rights are preserved to them, as they are the most numerous,
so they become the most important members of a civil society. "Although," as is well observed
by Arthur Young, "they be disregarded by the superficial, or viewed with contempt by the vain,
they will be placed, by those who judge of things not by their external appearance, but by
their intrinsic worth, as the most useful class of mankind; their occupations conduce not only
to the prosperity, but to the very existence of society; their life is one unvaried course
of hardy exertion and persevering toil. The vigour of their youth is exhausted by labour, and
what are the hopes and consolations of their age? Sickness may deprive them of the opportunity
of providing the least supply for the declining years of life, and the gloomy confinement of
a work-house, or the scanty pittance of parochial help, are their only resources. By their
condition may be estimated the real prosperity of a country; the real opulence, strength, and
security of the public are proportionate to the comfort which they enjoy, and their wretchedness
is a sure criterion of a bad administration."

I have quoted this passage at length, in order that I might shew that France supplies us in
this case, as in many others, with a wide exception from those general rules in politics which
time and experience had long sanctioned. We shall in vain look at the state of the peasantry
of that country as affording a criterion of the situation of any other branch of the community.
It did not remain concealed from the deep and penetrating eye of Napoleon, that if the peasantry
of a country were supported, and their condition improved, any revolution might be effected;
any measure, however tyrannical, provided it did not touch them, might be executed with ease.
For the sake of the peasantry, we shall perceive that the yeomanry, the farmers, the bourgeoisie,
the nobility, were allowed to dwindle into insignificance. His leading principle was never
to interfere with their properties, however they may have been obtained; and he invariably
found, that if permitted to enjoy these, they calmly submitted to taxation, furnished recruits
for his conscription, and supported him in every measure.

In tracing the causes and effects of the various revolutions which take place among civilized
nations, political writers have paid too little attention to the effects of property. France
affords us an interesting field for investigation on this interesting question; but the narrow
limits of our work will not admit of our indulging in such speculations. We cannot, however,
avoid remarking by the way, that the facility of effecting a revolution in the government of
France, so often shewn of late, has arisen, in a great measure, from this state of the property
of the peasantry. Under the revolution they gained this property, and they respected and supported
the revolutionists. Under Napoleon, their property was respected, and they bore with him, and
admired him. Louis commenced by encouraging them in the idea that their rights would be respected,
and they remained quiet:--his Ministers commenced their plans of restoring to the noblesse
their estates, and the King immediately lost the affections of the peasantry. They welcomed
Napoleon a second time, because they knew his principles: They have again welcomed their King,
because they are led to suppose that experience has changed the views of his Ministers: but
they suspect him, and on the first symptom of another change they will join in his expulsion.
The property of these classes, but more particularly of the nobility, has been subdivided and
distributed among the peasants; become their own, it has, no doubt, been much better managed,
for it is their immediate interest that not an acre of waste ground should remain. They till
it with their own hands, and, without any intermediate agents, they draw the profits. Lands
thus managed, must, of course, be found in a very different state from those whose actual proprietor
is perhaps never on the spot, who manages through stewards, bailiffs, and other agents, and
whose rank prevents the possibility of his assisting, or even superintending, the labour of
his peasantry.

Having shewn the causes of the present appearance of France, we must describe the effects,
by presenting to our readers the picture which was every where before our eyes in traversing
the country. The improvement in agriculture, or to speak literally, in the method of tilling
the soil, is by no means great. The description of the methods pursued, and of the routine
of crops, given by Arthur Young, corresponds very exactly with what we saw. It may be observed,
however, that the ploughing is rather more neat, and the harrowing more regular. To an English
eye both of these operations would appear most superficial; but it ought to be considered,
that here nature does almost every thing, little labour is necessary, and in many parts of
the country manure is never used: but the defect in the quality of the cultivation is somewhat
compensated by the quantity. Scarce an acre of land which would promise to reward the cultivator
will be found untilled. The plains are covered with grain, and the most barren hills are formed
into vineyards. And it will generally be found, that the finest grapes are the produce of the
most dry, stony, and seemingly barren hills. It is in this extension of the cultivation that
we trace the improvement; but there must also be some considerable change for the better, though
not in the same degree, in the method of cultivation, which is demonstrated by the fact, that
a considerable rise has taken place in the rent and price of land. In many places it has doubled
within the last twenty-five years; an arpent now selling for 1000 francs, which was formerly
sold for 500.

It is, however, extraordinary, that these improvements have, as yet, only shewn their influence
in the dress of the peasantry, and no where in the comfort or neatness of their houses. Between
Calais and Paris, their houses are better than we found them afterwards on our way to the south.
In that direction, also, they were almost invariably well clothed, having over their other
clothes (and not as a substitute for a coat) a sort of blue linen frock, which had an appearance
of attention to dress, not to be seen in other parts of the country, for the peasantry in most
other parts, though neatly clothed, presented, in the variety of their habits and costumes,
a very novel spectacle. The large tails, which give them so military an appearance, and impress
us with the idea that they have marched, are by no means a proof of this circumstance; for
we were informed, that the first thing done in most instances, was to deprive the conscripts
of their superabundant hair. But the long tail and the cocked hat, are worn in imitation of
the higher orders of older time. It is indeed a sight of the most amusing kind to the English
eye, to behold a French peasant at his work, in velvet coat and breeches, powdered hair, and
a cocked hat. But we do not mean to give this as the usual dress of the peasants, although
we have frequently met with it. Their dress is very often as plain, neat, and sufficient, as
their houses are the reverse.

In Picardy, the luxuriant fruit-trees which surround the cottages and houses, give an appearance
of comfort, which is not borne out by the actual state of the houses on a nearer inspection.
Near Laon, and towards the frontiers of French Flanders, the condition of the peasantry appeared
exceedingly comfortable. Their dress was very neat, and their houses much more substantial,
and, in some parts, ornament was added to strength. In this district, the people had the advantage
of being employed in the linen manufacture in their own houses, besides their ordinary agricultural
occupations; and their condition reminded us of the effects of this intermixture of occupations
presented by a view of Clydesdale in Scotland, or of the West Riding of Yorkshire.

Towards Fontainbleau, and to the east of Paris, on the road of Soissons, the peasantry inhabit
the old villages, or rather little towns, and no cottages are to be seen on the lands. No gardens
are attached to the houses in these towns. The houses have there an appearance of age, want
of repair, and a complete stagnation of commerce. And even the peasantry there seemed considerably
reduced, but they were always well dressed, and by no means answered Arthur Young's description.
Still their houses denoted great want of comfort; very little furniture was to be seen, and
that either of the very coarsest kind, or of the gaudy and gilded description, which shewed
whence it came. The intermixture is hideous. In the parts of the country above named; the food
often consisted of bread and pork, and was better than what we found in the south. But even
here, the small number of pigs, the poor flocks of sheep, and, indeed, the absence of any species
of pasture for cattle, demonstrated that there was not a general or extensive consumption of
animal food or the produce of the dairy.

The little demand for butcher meat, or the produce of pasture, is probably, as Arthur Young
has hinted, one great cause of the continuance of the fallow system of husbandry in France;
for where there is no consumption of these articles, it is impossible that a proper rotation
of crops can be introduced.

In noticing the causes of the decided improvement in the condition of the peasantry, we may
observe in passing, that the great consumption of human life, during the revolution, and more
particularly under Napoleon's conscription, must have considerably bettered the condition of
those who remained, and who were able for work, by increasing the price of labour.

The industry of the peasants in every part of the country, cannot be sufficiently praised--it
as remarkable as the apathy and idleness of tradesmen and artificers. Every corner of soil
is by them turned to account, and where they have gardens, they are kept very neat. The defects
in the cultivation arise, therefore, from the goodness of the climate, the ignorance or poverty
of the cultivators, or from inveterate prejudice.

We must now say a few words with regard to the state of agriculture and the condition of the
peasantry between Paris and Aix, and more especially in the south of France. Here also every
acre of land is turned to good account, but the method of tilling the land is very defective.
The improvements in agriculture, in modern times, will be found to owe their origin to men
of capital, of education, and of liberal ideas, and such men are not to be found here. The
prejudices and the poverty of their ancestors, have not ceased to have their effects in the
present generation, in retarding the improvement in the tillage, and in the farm instruments.
They are, in this respect, at least a century behind us. From the small subdivisions in many
parts of the country, each family is enabled to till its own little portion with the spade;
and where the divisions are larger, and ploughs used, they will invariably be found rude, clumsy,
enormous masses of wood and iron, weak from the unskilfulness of the workmanship, continuing
from father to son without improvement, because improvement would not only injure their purses,
but give a deadly wound to that respect and veneration which they have for the good old ways
of their ancestors. There is endless variety in the shape and size of the French plough; but
amid the innumerable kinds of them, we never had the good fortune to meet one good or sufficient
instrument.

The use of machinery in the farm-stead is unknown, and grain, as of old, is very generally
trodden by oxen, sometimes on the sides of the high roads, and winnowed by the breath of Heaven.

In the south of France, we met with much more regular enclosure than around Paris; but even
here, little attention is bestowed in keeping the fences in repair. Hedges are, however, less
necessary in the south than elsewhere; for there is a complete want of live stock of every
description, and no attention paid to the breeding of it. This want does not strike the traveller
immediately, because he finds butcher meat pretty good in the small towns; excellent in the
larger cities, and cheap everywhere. But he will find, that France is, in this respect, much
in the same state with India. Animal food is cheap, because the consumption is very limited.
In France, but more particularly in the south, I should say that not one-sixth of the butcher
meat is consumed by each man or woman which would be requisite in England. Bread, wine, fruit,
garlic, onions and oil, with occasionally a small portion of animal food, form the diet of
the lower orders; and among the higher ranks, the method of cooking makes a little meat go
a great way. The immense joints of beef and mutton, to which we are accustomed in England,
were long the wonder of the French; but latterly, they have begun to introduce (among what
they humorously term plats de resistance) these formidable dishes.

Excepting in the larger towns, butcher meat, particularly beef and mutton, is generally ill
fed. In the part of the south, where we resided during the winter, the beef was procured from
Lyons, a distance of above 200 miles. In the south, the breed of cattle of every description
is small and stinted, and unless when pampered up for the market, they are generally very poor
and ill fed. The traveller is everywhere struck with the difference between the English and
French horses, cows, pigs, sheep, &c. and in more than the half of France, he will find, for
the reasons formerly assigned, an almost total want of attention to these useful animals among
the farmers. At Aix, where we were situated, there was only one cow to be found. Our milk was
supplied by goats and sheep; and all the butter consumed there, excepting a very small quantity
made from goat's milk, was also brought from Lyons. This want is not so much felt in Provence;
because, for their cookery, pastry, &c. they use olive oil, which, when fresh, is very pleasant.

The want of barns, sheds, granaries, and all other farm buildings, is very conspicuous in the
south. The dairy is there universally neglected, and milk can only be had early in the morning,
and then in very small quantity; nay, the traveller may often journey a hundred miles in the
south of France without being able to procure milk at all; this we ourselves experienced. The
eye is nowhere delighted with the sight of rich and flourishing farm-steads, nor do the abundant
harvests of France make any shew in regular farm-yards. All the wealth of the peasantry is
concealed. Each family hides the produce of their little estate within their house. An exhibition
of their happy condition would expose them to immediate spoliation from the tax-officers. In
our own happy country, the rich farm-yard, the comfortable dwelling-house of the farmer, and
the neat smiling cottage of the labourer, call down on the possessors only the applause and
approbation of his landlord, of his neighbours, and of strangers. They raise him in the general
opinion. In France, they would prove his ruin.

To conclude these few observations on the state of agriculture, we may remark, that the revolution
has certainly tended greatly to promote the extension of the cultivation, by throwing the property
of the lands into the hands of the peasantry, who are the actual cultivators, and also by removing
the obstructions occasioned by the seignorial rights, the titles, game laws, corveès; yet I
think there cannot be a doubt, that, aided by capital, and by the more liberal ideas of superior
farmers benefiting by the many new and interesting discoveries in modern agriculture, France
might, without that terrible convulsion, have shewn as smiling an aspect, and the science of
agriculture been much further advanced.

If, by the revolution, the situation of the peasantry be improved, we must not forget, on the
other hand, that to effect this improvement, the nobility, gentry, yeomanry, and, we might
almost add, farmers, have been very generally reduced to beggary. The restraint which the existence
of these orders ever opposed to the power of a bad king, of a tyrant, or of an adventurer,
might have remained, and all have been happier, better, and richer than they are now.

* * *

COMMERCE.

It was probably the first wish of Napoleon's heart, as it was also his wisest policy, that
the French should become entirely a military, not a commercial nation. Under his government,
the commerce of France was nearly annihilated. It was however necessary, that at times he should
favour the commercial interest of the towns in the interior, from which he drew large supplies
of money, and his constant enmity against the sea-port towns of Marseilles and Bourdeaux, induced
him to encourage the interior commerce of France, to the prejudice of the maritime trade of
these ports. Under Napoleon, Paris, Lyons, Rouen, and most of the large towns which carried
on this interior commerce, were lately in a flourishing state. In these towns, if not beloved,
he was at least tolerated, and they wished for no change of government. But at Marseilles,
and at Bourdeaux, he was detested, and a very strong royalist party existed, which caused him
constant annoyance. At Bourdeaux, it may be recollected, that the Bourbons were received with
open arms, and that that town was the first to open its gates to the allies. It was also among
the last that held out. I was in that town while the royalist party were still powerful, while
every thing shewed a flourishing commerce, while the people were happy; the wine trade was
daily enriching the inhabitants, and they blessed the return of peace, and of their lawful
princes. In two days the face of things was changed. A party of soldiers, 300 strong, were
dispatched by Napoleon, under the command of General Clausel. The troops of the line here,
as everywhere else, betrayed their trust, and joined the rebels, and Bourdeaux was delivered
up to the spoiler.

Never was there a more melancholy spectacle than that now afforded by the inhabitants of this
city. You could not enter a shop where you did not find the owners in tears. We were then all
hastening to leave France. They embraced us, and prayed that our army might soon be among them
to restore peace and the Bourbons. Here I am convinced that Bonaparte is hated by all but the
military. Yet what could a town like Bourdeaux effect, when its own garrison betrayed it?

Besides the bad effects of Bonaparte's policy on the commerce of France, I must notice the
wide influence of another cause, which was the natural result of the revolution. Although at
first an attack was only made against the noblesse, yet latterly, every rich and powerful family
was included among the proscribed, and all the commercial houses of the first respectability
were annihilated. These have never been replaced, and the upstart race of petty traders have
not yet obtained the confidence of foreigners. The trade of France is therefore very confined;
and even were opportunities now afforded of establishing a trade with foreign nations, it would
be long before France could benefit by it, from the total want of established and creditable
houses.

The manifest signs of the decay of commerce in France cannot escape the observation of the
traveller, more especially if he has been in the habit of travelling in England. The public
diligences are few in number, and most miserably managed. It is difficult to say whether the
carriage, the horses, or the harness, gives most the idea of meanness. Excepting in the neighbourhood
of large towns, you meet with not a cart, or waggon, for twenty that the same distance would
show in England. The roads are indeed excellent in most parts; but this is not in France, as
in most countries, a proof of a flourishing commerce. It is for the conveyance of military
stores, and to facilitate the march of the troops, that the police are required to keep the
roads in good repair. The villages and towns throughout France, are in a state of dilapidation
from want of repair. No new houses, shops, and warehouses building, as we behold every where
in England. None of that hurry and bustle in the streets, and on the quays of the sea-port
towns, which our blessed country can always boast. The dress of the people, their food, their
style of living, their amusements, their houses, all bespeak extreme poverty and want of commerce.

I was at some pains in ascertaining whether, in many of their manufactures, they were likely
to rival us or injure our own.--I cannot say I have found one of consequence. There are indeed
one or two articles partially in demand among us, in which the French have the superiority;
silks, lace, gloves, black broad cloth, and cambric are the chief among them. The woollen cloths
in France are extremely beautiful, and the finer sorts, I think, of a superior texture to any
thing we have in England; but the price is always double, and sometimes treble of what they
sell for at home, so that we have not much to fear from their importations. Few of the French
can afford to wear these fine cloths.

French watches are manufactured at about one half of the English price; but the workmanship
is very inferior to ours, and unless as trinkets for ladies' wear, they do not seem much in
estimation in England. The cutlery in France is wretched. Not only the steel, but the temper
and polish, are far inferior to ours. A pair of English razors is, to this day, a princely
present in France. Hardware is flimsy, ill finished, and of bad materials. All leather work,
such as saddlery, harness, shoes, &c. is wretchedly bad, but undersells our manufactures of
the same kind by about one half. Cabinet work and furniture is handsome, shewy, insufficient,
and dear. Jewellery equal, if not superior to ours in neatness, but not so sufficient. Hats
and hosiery very indifferent. In glass ware we greatly excel the French, except in the manufacture
of mirrors. Musical instruments of all descriptions are made as well, and at half the English
price, in France. In every thing else, not here mentioned, as far as my memory serves me, I
think I may report the manufactures of France greatly inferior to those in England. I have
sometimes heard it stated, that in the manufacture of calicoes, muslins, and other cotton goods,
the French are likely to rival us. On this subject I was not able to obtain the information
I wished for, but one fact I can safely mention, the price of all these goods is at present,
in most parts of France, nearly double what it is in England or Scotland, and their machinery
is not to be compared with our own.

* * *

WEALTH OF THE NATION AND ITS DIVISION.

To the traveller in France, every thing seems to denote extreme poverty, and that extending
its influence over all ranks of society; and certainly, compared with England, France is wretchedly
poor. But many of its resources remain hidden, and it is certain, that on the demands of its
despotic ruler, France produced unlooked-for supplies. His wars have now greatly exhausted
this hidden treasure, and there is, fortunately for the peace of the world, very little money
left in the country. The marks of the wealth of the country, both absolutely, and in relation
to other countries, are to be found in the manner of living, and extent of fortunes of its
inhabitants; in the size, comfort, and style of their houses; in their dress and amusements;
in the price of labour; the salaries of office; the trade and commerce of the country; the
number of country houses, of banks, &c. In examining each of these heads, we shall find that
France is a very poor country.

The sum of two thousand pounds a-year is reckoned a noble fortune in France, and very, very
few, there are that possess that sum.

One thousand pounds a-year constitutes a handsome fortune for a gentleman; and four hundred
for a bourgeois, or for one employed in trade or commerce. Few of the nobility are now possessed
of fortunes sufficient to maintain a carriage; and none under the rank of princes, in France,
have now more than one carriage.

The style of living is wretched: only the first, and richest houses, can afford to entertain
company, and those but seldom. It requires a large fortune to maintain a regular cook; in half
the houses they have only a dirty scullion, who, among her other work, cooks the dinner. In
the other half, a traiteur sends in the dinner; or if a bachelor, the master of the house dines
at a table d'hôte, as a pensionaire.

The interior management of the French houses denotes extreme poverty. Some few articles of
splendid furniture are displayed for shew in one or two rooms, while the rest of the house
is shut up, and left dirty and ill furnished.

Of their dress and amusements I have already said enough, to shew that they denote poverty,
and I shall say more when I come to the French character.

The price of labour is far lower than what we are used to, fluctuating from fifteen to twenty
pence a-day. The salaries of office are, throughout France, not above one-third what they are
in England. Of the want of trade and commerce I have already spoken. The public banks are very
few in number, and only to be found in very large and commercial towns. Country houses and
fine estates, there are none, or where they are found, it is in a state of dilapidation.

Where, then, is the wealth of France? I was at some pains to solve this question. The remaining
wealth of France is divided among the generals of Napoleon; the army furnishers and contractors;
the prefects, sub-prefects; the numerous receivers and collectors of taxes; and, lastly, but
chiefly, the peasantry. It may appear strange to those who are not acquainted with the present
state of France, that I have mentioned the peasants among the richest; but I am convinced of
the fact. The peasants in France have divided among themselves the lands and property of the
emigrants. Napoleon drew supplies from them; but very politically maintained them in their
possessions. Their condition, and the condition of the lands, shew them to be in easy circumstances.
They are well clothed, and abundantly, though poorly fed.

France is, in fine, a very poor country, compared with our own; but it is not without resources,
and its wealth will remain concealed as long as it is under Napoleon; for whoever shewed wealth,
was by him marked out as an object of plunder. By allowing unlimited power to his emissaries
and spies, he was able to discover where the wealth lay, and by vesting the same power in his
prefects, sub-prefects, receivers, and gend'armes, he seized on it when discovered. In the
public prints, previous to his downfall, we may observe almost continually the thanks of Government
to the farmers, proprietors, and others, for their patriotic exertions in supplying horses,
grain, &c. In these cases, the patriotic farmers had bands of gend'armerie stationed over them,
who drove away their horses, their cattle and grain, without the hope even of payment or redress
of any kind. Nothing denotes more the poverty of the country, than the want of horses, of cows,
and all kinds of live stock.

In no country in the world is there found so great a number of beggars as in France; and yet
there are not wanting in every town establishments for the maintenance of the poor. These beggars
are chiefly from among the manufacturing classes; the families of soldiers and labourers. The
peasants are seldom reduced to this state, or when reduced, they are succoured by their fellow
peasants, and do not beg publicly. The national poverty has had the worst effects on the French
character; in almost every station in life they will be found capable of meanness. What can
be more disgusting, than to see people of fashion and family reduced to the necessity of letting
to strangers their own rooms, and retiring into garrets and other dirty holes--demanding exorbitant
prices, and with perfect indifference taking half or a third--higgling for every article they
purchase--standing in dirty wrappers at their doers, seeing the wood weighed in the street,
on terms of familiarity with tradesmen and their own servants. All this you see in France daily;
but on this subject I have elsewhere made observations.

