The morning after we arrived, I went ashore with a boat's crew to perform the magnanimous operation
of cutting brooms; we pulled ashore for Green Bay, under the guns of the Twelve Apostles--a
heavy battery of twelve cannon, where there is a tombstone with an inscription, setting forth
that the party over whom it was erected, had been actually swallowed up in the great earthquake
that destroyed the opposite town, but subsequently disgorged again; being, perchance, an unseemly
morsel.

We approached the beach--"Oars"--the men laid them in.

"What sort of nuts be them, Peter Coamings?" said the coxswain to a new hand who had been lately
impressed, and was now standing at the bow ready to fend off.

Peter broke off one of the branches from the bush nearest him.

"Smite my timbers, do the trees here bear shellfish?"

The tide in the Gulf of Mexico does not ebb and flow above two feet, except at the springs,
and the ends of the drooping branches of the mangrove--trees, that here cover the shore, are
clustered, within the wash of the water, with a small well--flavoured oyster.  The first thing
the seamen did when they got ashore, was to fasten an oakum tail to the rump of one of the
most lubberly of the cutter's crew; they then gave him ten yards' law, when they started in
chase, shouting amongst the bushes, and switching each other like the veriest schoolboys. I
had walked some distance along the beach, pelting the amphibious little creatures, half crab,
half lobster, called soldiers, which kept shouldering their large claws, and running out and
in their little burrows, as the small ripple twinkled on the sand in the rising sun, when two
men--of--wars boats, each with three officers in the stern, suddenly pulled round a little
promontory that intercepted my view ahead.  Being somewhat out of the line of my duty, so far
from my boat, I squatted amongst the brushwood, thinking they would pass by; but, as the devil
would have it, they pulled directly for the place where I was ensconced, beached their boats,
and jumped on shore.  "Here's a mess," thought I.

I soon made out that one of the officers was Captain Pinkem of the Flash, and that the parties
saluted each other with that stern courtesy which augured no good.

"So, so, my masters, not enough of fighting on the coast of America, but you must have a little
private defacing of God's image amongst yourselves?"

Pinkem spoke first.  "Mr Clinch," (I now knew he addressed the first lieutenant of the flagship)--"Mr
Clinch, it is not too late to prevent unpleasant consequences; I ask you again, at the eleventh
hour, will you make an apology?"

He seemed hurried and fidgety in his manner; which rather surprised me, as I knew he was a
seasoned hand in these matters, and it contrasted unfavourably with the calm bearing of his
antagonist, who by this time had thrown his hat on the ground, and stood with one foot on the
handkerchief that marked his position, the distance, twelve paces, having already been measured.
By the by, his position was deucedly near in a line with the grey stone behind which I lay
perdu; nevertheless, the risk I ran did not prevent me noticing that he was very pale, and
had much the air of a brave man come to die in a bad cause.  He looked upwards for a second
for two, and then answered, slowly and distinctly, "Captain Pinkem, I now repeat what I said
before; this rencontre is none of my seeking.  You accuse me of having spoken slightingly of
you seven years ago, when I was a mere boy.  You have the evidence of a gallant officer that
I did so; therefore I may not gainsay it; but of uttering the words imputed to me, I declare,
upon my honour, I have no recollection." He paused.

"That won't do, my fine fellow," said Pinkem.

"You are unreasonable," rejoined Clinch, in the same measured tone, "to expect farther amende
for uttering words which I have no conviction of having spoken; yet to any other officer in
the service I would not hesitate to make a more direct apology, but you know your credit as
a pistol--shot renders this impossible."

"Sorry for it, Mr Clinch, sorry for it."

Here the pistols were handed to the principals by their respective seconds.  In their attitudes,
the proficient and the novice were strikingly contrasted; (by this time I had crept round so
as to have a view of both parties, or rather, if the truth must be told, to be out of the line
of fire.) Pinkem stood with his side accurately turned towards his antagonist, so as to present
the smallest possible surface; his head was, as it struck me, painfully slewed round, with
his eye looking steadily at Clinch, over his right shoulder, whilst his arm was brought down
close to his thigh, with the cock of the pistol turned outwards, so that his weapon must have
covered his opponent by the simple raising of his arm below the elbow.  Clinch, on the other
hand, stood fronting him, with the whole breadth of his chest; holding his weapon awkwardly
across his body, with both hands.  Pinkem appeared unwilling to take him at such advantage,
for, although violent and headstrong, and but too frequently the slave of his passions, he
had some noble traits in his character.

"Turn your feather edge to me, Mr Clinch; take a fair chance, man."

The lieutenant bowed, and I thought would have spoken, but he was checked by the dread of being
thought to fear; however, took the advice, and in an instant the word was given--"Are you both
ready?"

"Yes."

"Then fire!"

Clinch fired without deliberation. I saw him, for my eyes were fixed on him, expecting to see
him fall.  He stood firm, however, which was more than I did, as at the instant, a piece of
the bullion of an epaulet, at first taken for a pellet of baser metal, struck me sharply on
the nose, and shook my equanimity confoundedly; at length I turned to look at Pinkem, and there
he stood with his arm raised, and pistol levelled, but he had not fired.  He stood thus whilst
I might have counted ten, like a finger--post, then dropping his hand, his weapon went off,
but without aim, the bullet striking the sand near his feet, and down he came headlong to the
ground.  He fell with his face turned towards me, and I never shall forget the horrible expression
of it.  His healthy complexion had, given place to a deadly blue, the eyes were wide open and
straining in their sockets, the upper lip was drawn up, showing his teeth in a most frightful
grin, the blood gushed from his mouth as if impelled by the strokes of a force pump, while
his hands griped and dug into the sand.

Before the sun set, he was a dead man.

"A neat morning's work, gentlemen," thought I.

The two surgeons came up, opened his dress, felt his pulse, and shook their heads; the boats
crews grouped around them--he was lifted into his gig, the word was given to shove off, and--I
returned to my broom--cutters.

When we got on board, the gunner who had the watch was taking his fisherman's walk on the starboard
side of the quarterdeck, and kept looking steadily at the land, as if to avoid seeing poor
little Duncan's coffin, that lay on a grating near the gangway.  The crew, assisted by thirty
men from the flag--ship, were employed in twenty different ways, repairing damages, and were
bustling about, laughing, joking, and singing, with small regard to the melancholy object before
their eyes, when Mr Douglas put his head up the ladder--"Now, Jackson, if you please."

The old fellow's countenance fell as if his heart was wrung by the order he had to give.

"Aloft there! lie out, you Perkins, and reeve a whip on the starboard yard--arm to lower Mr"--The
rest stuck in his throat, but, as if ashamed of his softheartedness, he threw as much gruffness
as he could into his voice as he sung out--"Beat to quarters there!--knock off, men!"

The roll of the drum stayed the confusion and noise of the people at work in an instant, who
immediately ranged themselves, in their clean frocks and trowsers, on each side of the quarterdeck.
At a given signal, the white deal coffin, wrapped in its befitting pall, the meteor flag of
England, swung high above the hammock nettings between us and the bright blue sky, to the long
clear note of the boatswain's whistle, which soon ending in a short chirrup, told that it now
rested on the thwarts of the boat alongside.  We pulled ashore, and it was a slight perchance
to move a woman, to see the poor little fellow's hat and bit of a dirk lying on his coffin,
whilst the body was carried by four ships boys, the eldest scarcely fourteen. I noticed the
tears stand in Anson's eyes as the coffin was lowered into the grave,--the boy had been wounded
close to him,--and when we heard the hollow battle of the earth on the coffin,--an unusual
sound to a sailor,--he shuddered.

"Yes, Master Cringle," he said, in a whisper, "he was as kind hearted, and as brave a lad as
ever trod on shoe leather,--none of the larkings of the men in the clear moonlight nights ever
reached the cabin through him,--nor was he the boy to rouse the watch from under the lee of
the boats in bad weather, to curry with the lieutenant, while he knew the look--outs were as
bright as beagles,--and where was the man in our watch that wanted baccy while Mr Duncan had
a shiner left?" The poor fellow drew the back of his horny hand across his eyes, and grumbled
out as he turned away, "And here am I, Bill Anson, such a swab as to be ashamed of being sorry
for him."

We were now turned over into the receiving ship the old Spark, and fortunately there were captains
enough in port to try us for the loss of the Torch, so we got over our court--martial speedily,
and the very day I got back my dirk, the packet brought me out a lieutenant's Commission. Being
now my own master for a season, I determined to visit some relations I had in the island, to
whom I had never yet been introduced; so I shook hands with old Splinter, packed my kit, and
went to the wharf to charter a wherry to carry me up to Kingston.  The moment my object was
perceived by the black boat--men, I was surrounded by a mob of them, pulling and hauling each
other, and shouting forth the various qualifications of their boats, with such vehemence, that
I was nearly deafened.

"Massa, no see Pam be Civil, sail like a witch, tack like a dolphin?"

"Don't believe him, massa; Ballahoo is de boat dat can beat him."

"Dam lie dat, as I am a gentleman!" roared a ragged black vagabond.

"Come in de Monkey, massa; no flying fish can beat she."

"Don't boder de gentleman," yelled a fourth,--"massa love de stamp and go--no so, massa?" as
he saw me make a step in the direction of his boat. "Oh yes--so get out of de way, you black
rascals,"--the fellow was as black as a sloe himself--"make room for man--of--war buccra; him
leetle just now, but will be admiral one day."

So saying, the fellow who had thus appropriated me, without more ado, levelled his head like
a battering ram, and began to batter in breach all who stood in his way.  He first ran a tilt
against Pam be Civil, and shot him like a rocket into the sea; the Monkey fared no better;
the Ballahoo had to swim for it; and having thus opened a way by main force, I at length got
safely moored in the stern sheets; but just as we were shoving off, Mr Callaloo, the clergyman
of Port Royal, a tall yellow personage, begged for a passage, and was accordingly taken on
board.  As it was high water, my boatmen chose the five foot channel, as the boat channel near
to Gallows Point is called, by which a long stretch would be saved, and we were cracking on
cheerily, my mind full of my recent promotion, when, scur, scur, scur, we stuck fast on the
bank.  Our black boatmen, being little encumbered with clothes, jumped overboard in a covey
like so many wild--ducks, shouting, as they dropped into the water, "We must all get out,--we
must all get out;" whereupon Mr Callaloo, a sort of Dominie Sampson in his way, promptly leaped
overboard up to his waist in the water.  The negroes were thunderstruck.

"Massa Parson Callaloo, you mad surely, you mad!"

"Children, I am not mad, but obedient--you said we must all get out"

"To be sure, massa, and you no see we all did get out?"

"And did you not see that I got out too?" rejoined the parson, still in the water, and somewhat
nettled.

"Oh, lud, massa! we no mean you--we meant poor nigger, not white man parson."

"You said all, children, and thereupon I leaped," pronouncing the last word in two syllables--"be
more correct in your grammar next time."

The worthy but eccentric old chap then scrambled on board again, amidst the suppressed laughter
of the boatmen, and kept his seat, wet clothes and all, until we reached Kingston.

CHAPTER VII

Scenes in Jamaica

'Excellent--why this is the best fooling when all is done.' TWELFTH NIGHT, II. iii. 29--30.

I confess that I did not promise myself much pleasure from my cruise ashore; somehow or other
I had made up my mind to believe, that in Jamaica, putting aside the magnificence and natural
beauty of the face of he country, there was little to interest me. I had pictured to myself
the slaves--a miserable, squalid, half fed, ill--clothed, over--worked race--and their masters,
and the white inhabitants generally, as an unwholesome--looking crew of saffron faced tyrants,
who wore straw hats with umbrella brims, wide trowsers, and calico jackets, living on pepper
pot and land crabs, and drinking sangaree and smoking cigars the whole day; in a word, that
all that Bryan Edwards and others had written regarding the civilisation of the West Indies
was a fable.  But I was agreeably undeceived; for although I did meet with some extraordinary
characters, and witnessed not a few rum scenes, yet, on the whole, I gratefully bear witness
to the great hospitality of the inhabitants, both in the towns and in the country.  In Kingston
the society was exceedingly good, as good, I can freely affirm, as I ever met with in any provincial
town anywhere; and there prevailed a warmth of heart, and a kindliness both in the males and
females of those families to which I had the good fortune to be introduced, that I never experienced
out of Jamaica.

At the period I am describing, the island was in the hey--day of its prosperity, and the harbour
of Kingston was full of shipping. I had never before seen so superb a mercantile haven; it
is completely landlocked, and the whole navy of England might ride in it commodiously.

On the sea face it is almost impregnable, for it would be little short of a miracle for an
invading squadron to wind its way through the labyrinth of shoals and reefs lying off the mouth
of it, amongst which the channels are so narrow and intricate, that at three or four points
the sinking of a sand barge would effectually block up all ingress; but, independently of this,
the entrance at Port Royal is defended by very strong works, the guns ranging the whole way
across, while, a little farther on, the attacking ships would be exposed to a cross fire from
the heavy metal of the Apostles' Battery; and even assuming all these obstacles to be overcome,
and the passage into the harbour forced, before they could pass the narrows to get up to the
anchorage at Kingston, they would be blown out of the water by a raking fire from sixty pieces
of large cannon on Fort Augusta, which is so situated that they would have to turn to windward
for at least half an hour, in a strait which, at the widest, would not allow them to reach
beyond musket--shot of the walls. Fortunately, as yet Mr Canning had not called his New World
into existence, and the whole of the trade of Terra Firma, from Porto Cavello down to Chagres,
the greater part of the trade of the islands of Cuba and San Domingo, and even that of Lima
and San Blas, and the other ports of the Pacific, carried on across the Isthmus of Darien,
centred in Kingston, the usual supplies through Cadiz being stopped by the advance of the French
in the Peninsula.  The result of this princely traffic, more magnificent than that of Tyre,
was a stream of gold and silver flowing into the Bank of England, to the extent of three millions
of pounds sterling annually, in return for British manufactures; thus supplying the sinews
of war to the government at home, and, besides the advantage of so large a mart, employing
an immense amount of British tonnage, and many thousand seamen; and in numberless ways opening
up new outlets to British enterprise and capital.  Alas! alas! where is all this now?  The
echo of the empty stores might answer "where!"

On arriving at Kingston, my first object was to seek out Mr  the admiral's agent, and one of
the most extensive merchants in the place, in order to deliver some letters to him, and get
his advice as to my future proceedings.  Mr Callaloo undertook to be my pilot, striding along
a--beam of me, and leaving in his wake two serpentine dottings on the pavement from the droppings
of water from his voluminous coat--skirts, which had been thoroughly soaked by his recent ducking.

Every thing appeared to be thriving, and as we passed along, the hot sandy streets were crowded
with drays conveying goods from the wharfs to the stores, and from the stores to the Spanish
Posadas. The merchants of the place, active, sharp--looking men, were seen grouped under the
piazzas in earnest conversation with their Spanish customers, or perched on the top of the
bales and boxes just landed, waiting to hook the gingham--coated, Moorish--looking Dons, as
they came along with cigars in their mouths, and a train of negro servants following them with
fire buckets on their heads, filled with pesos fuertes. The appearance of the town itself was
novel and pleasing; the houses, chiefly of two stories, looked as if they had been built of
cards, most of them being surrounded with piazzas from ten to fourteen feet wide, gaily painted
green and white, and formed by the roofs projecting beyond the brick walls or shells of the
houses.  On the ground--floor these piazzas are open, and in the lower part of the town, where
the houses are built contiguous to each other, they form a covered way, affording a most grateful
shelter from the sun, on each side of the streets, which last are unpaved, and more like dry
river courses, than thoroughfares in a Christian town.  On the floor above, the balconies are
shut in with a sort of movable blinds, called "jealousies,' like large bladed Venetian blinds,
fixed in frames, with here and there a glazed sash to admit light in bad weather when the blinds
are closed.  In the upper part of the town the effect is very beautiful, every house standing
detached from its neighbour, in its little garden filled with vines, fruittrees, stately palms,
and cocoa--nut trees, with a court of negro houses and offices behind, and a patriarchal--looking
draw--well in the centre, generally overshadowed by a magnificent wild tamarind.  When I arrived
at the great merchant's place of business, I was shown into a lofty cool room, with a range
of desks along the walls, where a dozen clerks were quill--driving.  In the centre sat my man,
a small sallow, yet perfectly gentlemanlike personage.

"Dat is massa" quoth my black usher.

I accordingly walked up to him, and presented my letter.  He never lifted his head from his
paper, which I had half a mind to resent; but at the moment there was a bustle in the piazza,
and a group of naval officers, amongst whom was the admiral, came in.  My silent friend was
now alert enough, and profuse of his bows and smiles.

"Who have we here?  Who is that boy, L----?" said the admiral to his secretary.

"Young Cringle, sir; the only one except Mr Splinter saved from the Torch; he was first on
the Admiralty list t'other day."

"What, the lad Willoughby spoke so well of?"

"The same, sir; he got his promotion by last packet."

"I know, I know. I say, Mr Cringle, you are appointed to the Firebrand, do you know that?"--I
did not know it, and began to fear my cruise on shore was all up.--"But I don't look for her
from Havanna for a month; so leave your address with L----, that you may get the order to join
when she does come."

It appeared that I had seen the worst of the agent, for he gave me a very kind invitation to
stay some days with him, and drove me home in his ketureen, a sort of sedan chair with the
front and sides knocked out, and mounted on a gig body.

Before dinner we were lounging about the piazza, and looking down into the street, when a negro
funeral came past, preceded by a squad of drunken black vagabonds, singing and playing on gumbies,
or African drums, made out of pieces of hollow trees, about six feet long, with skins braced
over them, each carried by one man, while another beats it with his open hands.  The coffin
was borne along on the heads of two negroes--a negro carries every thing on his head, from
a bale of goods to a wine--glass or tea--cup.  It is a practice for the bearers, when they
come near the house of any one against whom the deceased was supposed to have had a grudge,
to pretend that the coffin will not pass by, and in the present case, when they came opposite
to where we stood, they began to wheel round and round, and to stagger under their load, while
the choristers shouted at the top of their lungs.

"We beg you, shipmate, for come along--do, broder, come away;" then another reel.  "What, you
no wantee go in a hole, eh?  You hab grudge against somebody lif here, eh?"--Another devil
of a lurch "Massa----'s housekeeper, eh?  Ah, it must be!"--A tremendous stagger--"Oh, Massa----,
dollar for drink; someting to hold play [negro wake] in Spring--path, [the negro burying--ground;]
Bediacko say him won't pass 'less you give it." And here they began to spin round more violently
than before; but at the instant a drove of bullocks coming along, they got entangled amongst
them, and down went body and bearers and all, the coffin bursting in the fall, and the dead
corpse, with its white grave--clothes and black face, rolling over and over in the sand amongst
the feet of the cattle.  It was immediately caught up, however, bundled into the coffin again,
and away they staggered, drumming and singing as loudly as before.

The party at dinner was a large one; every thing in good style, wines superb, turtle, &c.,
magnificent, and the company exceedingly companionable.  A Mr Francis Fyall, (a great planting
attorney, that is, an agent for a number of proprietors of estates, who preferred living in
England, and paying a commission to him for managing in Jamaica, to facing the climate themselves,)
to whom I had an introduction, rather posed me, by asking me during dinner, if I would take
any thing in the long way with him, which he explained by saying he would be glad to take a
glass of small beer with me.  This, after a deluge of Madeira, Champagne, and all manner of
light wines, was rather trying; but I kept my countenance as well I could.  One thing I remember
struck me as remarkable; just as we were rising to go to the drawing--room, a cloud of winged
ants burst in upon us through the open windows, and had it not been for the glassshades would
have extinguished the candles; but when they had once settled on the table, they deliberately
wriggled themselves free of their wings, as one would cast off a great--coat, and crept away
in their simple and more humble capacity of creeping things.

Next day I went to wait on my relation, Mrs Palma.  I had had a confoundedly hot walk through
the burning sand streets, and was nearly blinded by the reflection from them, as I ascended
the front stairs. There are no carpets in the houses in Jamaica; but the floors, which are
often mahogany, are beautifully polished, and shine like a well--kept dinner table.  They are,
of course, very slippery, and require wary walking till one gets accustomed to them.  The rooms
are made exceedingly dark during the heat of the day, according to the prevailing practice
in all ardent climates.  A black footman, very handsomely dressed, all to his bare legs, (I
thought at first he had black silk stocking on,) preceded me, and when he reached the drawing--room
door, asked my name. I told him, "Mr Cringle,"--whereupon he sung out, to my dismay--"Massa
Captain Ringtail to wait pan Misses."

This put me out a little--especially as I heard some one say "Captain who--what a very odd name?"

But I had no time for reflection, as I had not blundered three steps out of the glare of the
piazza, into the palpable obscure of the darkened drawing--room, black as night from the contrast,
when I capsized headlong over an ottoman in the middle of the apartment, and floundered right
into the centre of a group of young ladies, and one or two lapdogs, by whom it was conjointly
occupied.  Trying to recover myself, I slipped on the glasslike floor, and came down stern
foremost; and being now regularly at the slack end, for I could not well get lower, I sat still,
scratching my caput in the midst of a gay company of morning visitors, enjoying the gratifying
consciousness that I was distinctly visible to them, although my dazzled optics could as yet
distinguish nothing.  To add to my pleasurable sensations, I now perceived, from the coldness
of the floor, that in MY downfall the catastrophe of my unmentionables had been grievously
rent, but I had nothing for it but sitting patiently still amidst the suppressed laughter of
the company, until I became accustomed to the twilight, and they, like bright stars, began
to dawn on my bewildered senses in all their loveliness, and prodigiously handsome women some
of' them were, for the Creoles, so far as figure is concerned, are generally perfect, while
beautiful features are not wanting, and my travel had reconciled me to the absence of the rose
from their cheeks.  My eldest cousin Mary (where is there a name like Mary?) now approached;
she and I were old friends, and many a junketing we used to have in my father's house during
the holydays, when she was a boarding--school girl in England.  My hardihood and self--possession
returned, under the double gratification of seeing her, and the certainty that my blushes (for
my cheeks were glowing like hot iron) could not have been observed in the subdued green light
that pervaded the room.--"Well, Tom, since you are no longer dazzled, and see us all now, you
had better get up, hadn't you--you see mamma is waiting there to embrace you?"

"Why, I think myself I had better;--but when I broached--to so suddenly, I split my lower canvass,
Mary, and I cannot budge until your mother lends me a petticoat."

"A what? you are crazy, Tom"

"Not a whit, not a whit, why I have split my--ahem.  This is speaking plain, an't it?"

Away tripped the sylph--like girl, and in a twinkling reappeared with the desired garment,
which in a convulsion of laughter she slipped over my head as I sat on the floor; and having
fastened it properly round my waist, I rose and paid my respects to my warm hearted relations.
But that petticoat--it could not have been the old woman's, there could have been no such virtue
in an old woman's petticoat; no, no, it must either have been a charmed garment, or--Mary's
own; for from that hour I was a lost man, and the devoted slave of her large black eyes, and
high pale forehead.  "Oh, murder you speak of the sun dazzling; what is it to the lustre of
that same eye of yours, Mary!"

In the evening I escorted the ladies to a ball, (by the way, a West India ball--room being
a perfect lantern, open to the four winds of heaven, is cooler, notwithstanding the climate,
than a ball--room anywhere else,) and a very gay affair it turned out to be, although I had
more trouble in getting admittance than I bargained for, and was witness to as comical a row
(considering the very frivolous origin of it, and the quality of the parties engaged in it)
as ever took place even in that peppery country, where, I verily believe, the temper of the
people, generous though it be in the main, is .hotter than the climate, and that, God knows!
is soporiferous enough. I was walking through the entrance saloon with my fair cousin on my
arm, stepping out like a hero to the opening crash of a fine military band, towards the entrance
of the splendid ball--room filled with elegant company, brilliantly lighted up and ornamented
with the most rare and beautiful shrubs and flowers, which no European conservatory could have
furnished forth, and arched overhead with palm branches and a profusion of evergreens, while
the polished floor, like one vast mirror, reflected the fine forms of the pale but lovely black--eyed
and black haired West Indian dames, glancing amidst the more sombre dressed of their partners,
while the whole group was relieved by being here and there spangled with a rich naval or military
uniform.  As we approached, a constable put his staff across the doorway.

"Beg pardon, sir, but you are not in full dress."

Now this was the first night whereon I had sported my lieutenant's uniform, and with my gold
swab on my shoulder, the sparkling bullion glancing in the corner of my eye at the very moment,
my dress--sword by my side, gold buckles in my shoes, and spotless white trowsers, I had, in
my innocence, considered myself a deuced killing fellow, and felt proportion ably mortified
at this address.

"No one can be admitted in trowsers, sir," said the man.

"Shiver my timbers!" I could not help the exclamation, the transactions of the morning crowding
on my recollection; "shiver my timbers! is my fate in this strange country to be for ever irrevocably
bound up in a pair of breeches?"

My cousin pinched my arm.--"Hush, Tom; go home and get mamma's petticoat."

The man was peremptory; and as there was no use in getting into a squabble about such a trifle,
I handed my partner over to the care of a gentleman of the party, who was fortunately accoutred
according to rule, and, stepping to my quarters, I equipped myself in a pair of tight nether
integuments, and returned to the ball--room.  By this time there was the devil to pay; the
entrance saloon was crowded with military and naval men, high in oath, and headed by no less
a person than a general officer, and a one--armed man, one of the chief civil officers in 
the place, and who had been a sailor in his youth. I was just in time to see the advance of
the combined column to the door of the ball--room, through which they drove the picket of constables
like chaff, and then halted.  The one--armed functionary, a most powerful and very handsome
man, now detached himself from the phalanx, and strode up to the advanced guard of stewards
clustered in front of the ladies, who had shrunk together into a corner of the room, like so
many frightened hares.

The place being now patent to me, I walked up to comfort my party, and could see all that passed.
The champion of the Excluded had taken the precaution to roll up the legs of his trowsers,
and to tie them tightly at the knee with his garters, which gave him the appearance of a Dutch
skipper; and in all the consciousness of being now properly arrayed, he walked up to one of
the men in authority--a small pot bellied gentleman, and set himself to intercede for the attacking
column, the head of which was still lowering at the door.  But the little steward speedily
interrupted him.

"Why, Mr Singlefist, rules must be maintained, and let me see," here he peered through his
glass at the substantial supporters of our friend,--"as I live, you yourself are inadmissible."

The giant laughed.

"Damn the body, he must have been a tailor!--Charge, my fine fellows, and throw the constables
out of the window, and the stewards after them. Every man his bird; and here goes for my Cock
Robin." With that he made a grab at his Lilliputian antagonist, but missed him, as he slid
away amongst the women like an eel, while his pursuer, brandishing his wooden arm on high,
to which I now perceived, for the first time, that there was a large steel hook appended, exclaimed
in a broad Scotch accent, "Ah, if I had but caught the creature, I would have clapt this in
his mouth, and played him like a salmon."

At this signal, in poured the mass of soldiers and sailors; the constables vanished in an instant;
the stewards were driven back upon the ladies; and such fainting and screaming, and swearing
and threatening, and shying of cards, and fixing of time and place for a cool turn in the morning,
it had never been my good fortune to witness before or since.  My wig! thought I, a precious
country, where a man's life may be periled by the fashion of the covering to his nakedness!

Next day, Mr Fyall, who, I afterwards learned, was a most estimable man in substantials, although
somewhat eccentric in small matters, called and invited me to accompany him on a cruise amongst
some of the estates under his management.  This was the very thing I desired, and three days
afterwards I left my kind friends in Kingston, and set forth on my visit to Mr Fyall, who lived
about seven miles from town. .

The morning was fine as usual, although about noon the clouds, thin and fleecy and transparent
at first, but gradually settling down more dense and heavy, began to congregate on the summit
of the Liguanea Mountains, which rise about four miles distant, to a height of near 5000 feet,
in rear of the town.  It thundered too a little now and then in the same direction, but this
was an every--day occurrence in Jamaica at this season, and as I had only seven miles to go,
off I started in a gig of mine host's, with my portmanteau well secured under a tarpawlin,
in defiance of all threatening appearances, crowding sail, and urging the noble roan that had
me in tow close upon thirteen knots.  I had not gone above three miles, however, when the sky
in a moment changed from the intense glare of a tropical noontide to the deepest gloom, as
if a bad angel had suddenly overshadowed us, and interposed his dark wings between us and the
blessed sun; indeed, so instantaneous was the effect, that it reminded me of the withdrawing
of the foot--lights in a theatre.  The road now wound round the base of a precipitous spur
from the Liguanea Mountains, which, instead of melting onto the level country by gradual decreasing
undulations, shot boldly out nearly a mile from the main range, and so abruptly, that it seemed
mortised into the plain, like a rugged promontory running into a frozen lake.  On looking up
along the ridge of this prong, I saw the lowering mass of black clouds gradually spread out,
and detach themselves from the summits of the loftier mountains, to which they had clung the
whole morning, and begin to roll slowly down the hill, seeming to touch the tree tops, while
along their lower edges hung a fringe of dark vapour, or rather shreds of cloud in rapid motion,
that shifted about, and shot out and shortened like streamers.

As yet there was no lightning nor rain, and in the expectation of escaping the shower, as the
wind was with me, I made more sail, pushing the horse into a gallop, to the great discomposure
of the negro who sat beside me.

"Massa, you can't escape it, you are galloping into it; don't massa hear de sound of de rain
coming along against de wind, and smell de earthy smell of him like one new--made grave?"

"The sound of the rain." In another clime, long, long ago, I had often read at my old mother's
knee, "And Elijah said unto Ahab, there is a sound of abundance of rain, prepare thy chariot,
and get thee down, that the rain stop thee not; and it came to pass, in the meanwhile, that
the heaven was dark with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain."

I looked, and so it was, for in an instant a white sheet of the heaviest rain I had ever seen
(if rain it might be called, for it was more like a water--spout) fell from the lower edge
of the black cloud, with a strong rushing noise, that increased as it approached to a loud
roar like that of a waterfall.  As it came along, it seemed to devour the rocks and trees,
for they disappeared behind the watery screen the instant it reached them.

We saw it a--head of us for more than a mile coming along the road, preceded by a black line
from the moistening of the white dust, right in the wind's eye, and with such an even front,
that I verily believe it was descending in bucketsful on my horse's head, while as yet not
one drop had reached me.  At this moment the adjutant--general of the forces, Colonel F----,
of the Coldstream Guards, in his tandem, drawn by two sprightly blood bays, with his servant,
a light boy, mounted Creole fashion on the leader, was coming up in my wake at a spot where
the road sank into a hollow, and was traversed by a watercourse already running knee deep,
although dry as a bone but the minute before.

I was now drenched to the skin, the water pouring out in cascades from both sides of the vehicle,
when just as I reached the top of the opposite bank, there was a flash of lightning so vivid,
accompanied by an explosion so loud and tremendous, that my horse, trembling from stem to stem,
stood dead still; the dusky youth by my side jumped out, and buried his snout in the mud, like
a porker in Spain nuzzling for acorns, and I felt more queerish than I would willingly have
confessed to.  I could have knelt and prayed.  The noise of the thunder was a sharp ear--piercing
crash, as if the whole vault of heaven had been made of glass, and had been shivered at a blow
by the hand of the Almighty.

It was, I am sure, twenty seconds before the usual roar and rumbling reverberation of the report
from the hills, and among the clouds, was heard.

I drove on, and arrived just in time to dress for dinner, but I did not learn till next day,
that the flash which paralysed me, had struck dead the Colonel's servant and leading horse,
as he ascended the bank of the ravine, by this time so much swollen, that the body of the lad
was washed off the road into the neighbouring gully, where it was found, when the waters subsided,
entirely covered with sand.

I found the party congregated in the piazza around Mr Fyall, who was passing his jokes, without
much regard to the feelings of his guests, and exhibiting as great a disregard of the common
civilities and courtesies of life as can well be imagined.  One of the party was a little red--faced
gentleman, Peregrine Whiffle, Esquire, by name who, in Jamaica parlance, was designated an
extraordinary master in Chancery; the overseer of the pen, or breeding farm, in the great house
as it is called, or mansionhouse of which Mr Fyall resided, and a merry, laughing, intelligent,
round, red--faced man, with a sort of Duncan Knockdunder nose, through the wide nostrils of
which you could see a cable's length into his head; he was either Fyall's head clerk, or a
sort of first lieutenant; these personages and myself composed the party.  The dinner itself
was excellent, although rather of the rough and round order; the wines and food intrinsically
good; but my appetite was not increased by the exhibition of a deformed, bloated negro child,
about ten years old, which Mr Fyall planted at his elbow, and, by way of practical joke, stuffed
to repletion with all kinds of food and strong drink, until the little dingy brute was carried
out drunk.

The wine circulated freely, and by and by Fyall indulged in some remarkable stories of his
youth, for he was the only speaker, which I found some difficulty in swallowing, until at length,
on one thumper being tabled, involving an impossibility, and utterly indigestible, I involuntarily
exclaimed, "by Jupiter!"

"You want any ting, massa?" promptly chimed in the black servant at my elbow, a diminutive
kiln--dried old negro.

"No," said I, rather caught.

"Oh, me tink you call for Jupiter."

I looked in the baboon's face--"Why, if I did; what then?"

"Only me Jupiter, at massa service, dat all."

"You are, eh, no great shakes of a Thunderer; and who is that tall square man standing behind
your master's chair?"

"Daddy Cupid, massa."

"And the old woman who is carrying away the dishes in the piazza?"

"Mammy Weenus."

"Daddy Cupid, and Mammy Weenus--Shade of Homer!"

Jupiter, to my surprise, shrunk from my side, as if he had received a blow, and the next moment
I could hear him communing with Venus in the piazza.

"For true, dat leetle man--of--war buccra must be Obeah man: how  de debil him come to sabe
dat it was stable--boy Homer who broke de candle shade on massa right hand, dat one wid de
piece broken out of de edge?" and here he pointed towards it with his chin--a negro always
points with his chin.

I had never slept on shore out of Kingston before; the night season in the country in dear
old England, we all know, is usually one of the deepest stillness--here it was any thing but
still;--as the evening closed in, there arose a loud humming noise, a compound of the buzzing,
and chirping, and whistling, and croaking of numberless reptiles and insects, on the earth,
in the air, and in the water. I was awakened out of my first sleep by it, not that the sound
was disagreeable, but it was unusual; and every now and then a beetle, the size of your thumb,
would bang in through the open window, cruise round the room with a noise like a humming--top,
and then dance a quadrille with half--a--dozen bats; while the fire--flies glanced like sparks,
spangling the folds of the muslin curtains of the bed.  The croak of the tree--toad, too, a
genteel reptile, with all the usual loveable properties of his species, about the size of the
crown of your hat, sounded from the neighbouring swamp, like some one snoring in the piazza,
blending harmoniously with the nasal concert got up by Jupiter, and some other heathen deities,
who were sleeping there almost naked, excepting the head, which every negro swathes during
the night with as much flannel and as many handkerchiefs as he can command.  By the way, they
all slept on their faces--I wonder if this will account for their flat noses.

Next morning we started at daylight, cracking along at the rate of twelve knots an hour in
a sort of gig, with one horse in the shafts, and another hooked on a--breast of him to a sort
of studdingsail--boom, or outrigger, and followed by three mounted servants, each with a led
horse and two sumpter mules.

In the evening we arrived at an estate under Mr Fyall's management, having passed a party of
maroons immediately before. I never saw finer men tall, strapping fellows, dressed exactly
as they should be and the climate requires; wide duck trowsers, over these a loose shirt, of
duck also, gathered at the waist by a broad leathern belt, through which, on one side, their
short cutlass is stuck, while on the other hangs a leathern pouch for ball, and a loose thong
across one shoulder, supports, on the opposite hip, a large powder--horn and haversack.  This,
with a straw hat, and a short gun in their hand, with a sling to be used on a march, completes
their equipment--in better keeping with the climate, than the padded coats, heavy caps, tight
cross--belts, and ponderous muskets of our regulars.  As we drove up to the door, the overseer
began to bawl, "Boys, boys!" and kept blowing a dog--call.  All servants in the country in
the West Indies, be they as old as Methuselah, are called boys.  In the present instance, half--a--dozen
black fellows forthwith appeared, to take our luggage, and attend on massa in other respects.
The great man was as austere to the poor overseer, as if he had been guilty of some misdemeanour,
and after a few short, crabbed words, desired him to get supper, "do you hear?"

The meat consisted of plantation fare--salted fish, plantains and yams, and a piece of goat
mutton.  Another "observe,"--a South Down mutton, after sojourning a year or two here, does
not become a goat exactly, but he changes his heavy warm fleece, and wears long hair; and his
progeny after him, if bred on the hot plains, never assume the wool again.  Mr Fyall and I
sat down, and then in walked four mutes, stout young fellows, not over--well dressed, and with
faces burnt to the colour of brick--dust. They were the bookkeepers, so called because they
never see a book, their province being to attend the negroes in the field, and to superintend
the manufacture of sugar and rum in the boiling and distilling--houses.

One of them, the head bookkeeper, as he was called, appeared literally roasted by the intensity
of the sun's rays.

"How is Baldy Steer?" said the overseer to this person.

"Better to--day, sir--I drenched him with train--oil and sulphur."

"The devil you did," thought I--"alas! for Baldy." "And Mary, and Caroline, and the rest of
that lot?" "Are sent to Perkin's Red Rover, sir; but I believe some of them are in calf already
by Bullfinch--and I have cut Peter for the lampas." The knife and fork dropped from my hands.
"What can all this mean? is this their boasted kindness to their slaves? One of a family drenched
with train--oil and brimstone, another cut for some horrible complaint never heard of before,
called lampas, and the females sent to the Red Rover, some being in calf already!" But I soon
perceived that the baked man was the cowboy or shepherd of the estate, making his report of
the casualties amongst his bullocks, mules, and heifers.

"Juliet Ridge will not yield, sir," quoth another.

"Who is this next? a stubborn concern she must be."

"The liquor is very poor." Here he helped himself to rum and water, the rum coming up about
an inch in the glass, regular half and half, fit to float a marlinspike.

"It is more than yours is," thought I; and I again stared in wonderment, until I perceived
he spoke of the juice of a cane patch.

At this time a tall, lathy gentleman came in, wearing a most original cut coatee. He was a
most extraordinary built man; he had absolutely no body, his bottom being placed between his
shoulders, but what was wanted in corpus was made up in legs, indeed he looked like a pair
of compasses, buttoned together at the shoulders, and supporting a yellow phiz half a yard
long, thatched with a fell of sandy hair, falling down lank and greasy on each side of his
face.  Fyall called him Buckskin, which, with some other circumstances, made me guess that
he was neither more nor less than an American smuggler.

After supper, a glass of punch was filled for each person, the overseer gave a rap on the table
with his knuckles, and off started the bookkeepers, like shots out of shovels, leaving the
Yankee, Mr Fyall, the overseer, and myself, at table.

I was very tired, and reckoned on going to bed now--but no such thing. Fyall ordered Jupiter
to bring a case from his gig--box, containing some capital brandy.  A new brewage of punch
took place, and I found about the small hours that we were all verging fast towards drunkenness,
or something very like that same.  The Yankee was specially plied by Fyall, evidently with
an object, and he soon succeeded in making him helplessly drunk.

The fun now "grew fast and furious,"--a large wash--tub was ordered in, placed under a beam
at the corner of the room, and filled with water; a sack and a three--inch rope were then called
for, and promptly produced by the blackies, who, apparently accustomed to Fyall's pranks, grinned
with delight.--Buckskin was thrust into the sack, feet foremost; the mouth of it was then gathered
round his throat with a string, and I was set to splice a bight in the rope, so as to fit under
his arms without running, which might have choked him.  All things being prepared, the slack
end was thrown over the beam.  He was soused in the tub, the word was given to hoist away,
and we ran him up to the roof, and then belayed the rope round the body of the overseer, who
was able to sit on his chair, and that was all.  The cold bath, and the being hung up to dry,
speedily sobered the American, but his arms being within the sack, he could do nothing for
his own emancipation; he kept swearing, however, and entreating, and dancing with rage, every
jerk drawing the cord tighter round the waist of the overseer, who, unaware of his situation,
thought himself bewitched as he was drawn with violence by starts along the floor, with the
chair as it were glued to him.  At length the patient extricated one of his arms, and laying
hold of the beam above him, drew himself up, and then letting go his hold suddenly, fairly
lifted the drunken overseer, chair and all, several feet from the ground, so as to bring him
on a level with himself, and then, in mid air, began to pummel his counterpoise with right
goodwill.  At length, fearful of the consequences from the fury into which the man had worked
himself, Fyall and I dashed out the candles, and fled to our rooms, where, after barricading
the doors, we shouted to the servants to let the gentlemen down.

The next morning had been fixed for duck--shooting, and the overseer and I were creeping along
amongst the mangrove bushes on the shore, to get a shot at some teal, when we saw our friend
the pair of compasses crossing the small bay in his boat, towards his little pilotboat--built
schooner, which was moored in a small creek opposite, the brushwood concealing every thing
but her masts.  My companion, as wild an Irishman as I ever knew, hailed him,--

"Hillo, Obadiah--Buckskin--you Yankee rascal, heave--to.  Come ashore here--come ashore."

Obed, smoking his pipe, deliberately uncoiled himself--I thou as he rose, there was to be no
end of him--and stood upright in the boat, like an ill--rigged jurymast.

"I say, Master Tummas, you ben't no friend of mine, I guess, a'ter last night's work; you hears
how I coughs?"--and he began to wheezle and crow in a most remarkable fashion.

"Never mind," rejoined the overseer; "if you go round that point, and put up the ducks--by
the piper, but I'll fire at you!"

Obed neighed like a horse expecting his oats, which was meant as a laugh of derision.  "Do
you think your birding--piece can touch me here away, Master Tummas?" And again he nichered
more loudly than before.

"Don't provoke me to try, you yellow snake, you!"

"Try, and be d--d, and there's a mark for thee," unveiling a certain part of his body, not
his face.

The overseer, or bushes, to give him his Jamaica name, looked at me and smiled, then coolly
lifted his long Spanish barrel, and fired.  Down dropped the smuggler, and ashore came the boat.

"I am mortally wounded, Master Tummas," quoth Obed; and I was confoundedly frightened at first,
from the unusual proximity of the injured part to his head; but the overseer, as soon as he
could get off the ground, where he had thrown himself in an uncontrollable fit of laughter,
had the man stripped and laid across a log, where he set his servant to pick out the pellets
with a penknife.

Next night I was awakened out of my first sleep by a peculiar sort of tap, tap, on the floor,
as if a cat with walnut shells had been moving about the room.  The feline race, in all its
varieties, is my detestation, so I slipped out of bed to expel the intruder; but the instant
my toe touched the ground, it was seized as if by a smith's forceps. I drew it into bed, but
the annoyance followed it; and in an agony of alarm and pain, I thrust my hand down, when my
thumb was instantly manacled to the other suffering member. I now lost my wits altogether,
and roared murder, which brought a servant in with a light, and there I was, thumb and toe,
in the clinch of a land--crab.

I had been exceedingly struck with the beauty of the negro villages on the old settled estates,
which are usually situated in the most picturesque spots, and I determined to visit the one
which lay on a sunny bank full in view from my window, divided on two sides from the cane pieces
by a precipitous ravine, and on the other two by a high logwood hedge, so like hawthorn, that
I could scarcely tell the difference, even when close to it.

At a distance it had the appearance of one entire orchard of fruit trees, where were mingled
together the pyramidal orange, in fruit and in flower, the former in all its stages from green
to dropping ripe,--the citron, lemon, and lime--trees, the stately, glossy--leaved star--apple,
the golden shaddock and grape--fruit, with their slender branches bending under their ponderous
yellow fruit,--the cashew, with its apple like those of the cities of the plain, fair to look
at, but acrid to the taste, to which the far--famed nut is appended like a bud,--the avocada,
with its brobdignag pear, as large as a purser's lantern,--the bread--fruit, with a leaf, one
of which would have covered Adam like a bishop's apron, and a fruit for all the world in size
and shape like a blackamoor's head; while for underwood you had the green, fresh, dew--spangled
plantain, round which in the hottest day there is always a halo of coolness,--the coco root,
the yam and granadillo, with their long vines twining up the neighbouring trees and shrubs
like hop tendrils,--and peas and beans, in all their endless variety of blossom and of odour,
from the Lima bean, with a stalk as thick as my arm, to the mouse pea, three inches high,--the
pineapple, literally growing in, and constituting, with its prickly leaves, part of the hedgerows,--the
custard--apple, like russet bags of cold pudding,--the cocoa and coffee bushes, and the devil
knows what all, that is delightful in nature besides; while aloft, the tall graceful cocoa--nut,
the majestic palm, and the gigantic wild cotton--tree, shot up here and there like minarets
far above the rest, high into the blue heavens.

I entered one of the narrow winding footpaths, where an immense variety of convolvuli crept
along the penguin fences, disclosing their delicate flowers in the morning freshness, (all
that class here shut shop at noon,) and passion flowers of all sizes, from a soup plate to
a thumb ring.

The huts were substantially thatched with palm leaves, and the walls woven with a basket--work
of twigs, plastered over with clay, and whitewashed; the floors were of baked clay, dry and
comfortable.  They all consisted of a hall and a sleeping--room off each side of it: in many
of the former I noticed mahogany sideboards and chairs, and glass decanters, while a whole
lot of African drums and flutes, and sometimes a good gun, hung from the rafters; and it would
have gladdened an Irishman's heart to have seen the adjoining piggeries.  Before one of the
houses an old woman was taking care of a dozen black infants, little naked, glossy, black guinea
pigs, with party coloured beads tied round their loins, each squatted like a little Indian
pagod in the middle of a large wooden bowl, to keep it off the damp ground.

While I was pursuing my ramble, a large conch--shell was blown at the overseer's house, and
the different gangs turned in to dinner; they came along, dancing and shouting, and playing
tricks on each other in the little paths, in all the happy anticipation of a good dinner, and
an hour and a half to eat it in, the men well clad in Osnaburg frocks and trowsers, and the
women in baize petticoats and Osnaburg shifts, with a neat printed calico short gown over all.

"And these are slaves," thought I, "and this is West Indian bondage!  Oh that some of my well--meaning
anti--slavery friends were here, to judge from the evidence of their own senses!"

The following night there was to be a grand play or wake in the negro houses, over the head
cooper, who had died in the morning, and I determined to be present at it, although the overseer
tried to dissuade me, saying that no white person ever broke in on these orgies, that the negroes
were very averse to their doing so, and that neither he, nor any of the white people on the
estate, had ever been present on such an occasion.  This very interdict excited my curiosity
still more; so I rose about midnight, and let myself gently down through the window, and shaped
my course in the direction of the negro houses, guided by a loud drumming, which, as I came
nearer, every now and then sunk into a low murmuring roll, when a strong bass voice would burst
forth into a wild recitative; to which succeeded a loud piercing chorus of female voices, during
which the drums were beaten with great vehemence; this was succeeded by another solo, and so
on.  There was no moon, and I had to thread my way along one of the winding footpaths by starlight.
When I arrived within a stone--cast of the hut before which the play was being held, I left
the beaten track, and crept onwards, until I gained the shelter of the stem of a wild cotton--tree,
behind which I skulked unseen.

The scene was wild enough.  Before the door a circle was formed by about twenty women, all
in their best clothes, sitting on the ground, and swaying their bodies to and fro, while they
sung in chorus the wild dirge already mentioned, the words of which I could not make out; in
the centre of the circle sat four men playing on gumbies, or the long drum formerly described,
while a fifth stood behind them, with a conch--shell, which he kept sounding at intervals.
Other three negroes kept circling round the outer verge of the circle of women, naked all to
their waist cloths, spinning about and about with their hands above their heads, like so many
dancing dervishes.  It was one of these three that from time to time took up the recitative,
the female chorus breaking in after each line.  Close to the drummers lay the body in an open
coffin, supported on two low stools or trestles; a piece of flaming resinous wood was stuck
in the ground at the head, and another at the feet; and a lump of kneaded clay, in which another
torchlike splinter was fixed, rested on the breast.  An old man, naked like the solo singer,
was digging a grave close to where the body lay.  The following was the chant:--

"I say, broder, you can't go yet."

THEN THE CHORUS OF FEMALE VOICES

"When de morning star rise, den we put you in a hole."

CHORUS AGAIN

"Den you go in a Africa, you see Fetish dere."

CHORUS

"You shall nyam goat dere, wid all your family."

CHORUS

"Buccra can't come dere; say, dam rascal, why you no work?"

CHORUS

"Buccra can't catch Duppy, no, no."

CHORUS

Three calabashes, or gourds, with pork, yams, and rum, were placed on a small bench that stood
close to the head of the bier, and at right angles to it.

In a little while, the women, singing--men, and drummers, suddenly gave a loud shout, or rather
yell, clapped their hands three times, and then rushed into the surrounding cottages, leaving
the old grave--digger alone with the body.

He had completed the grave, and had squatted himself on his hams beside the coffin, swinging
his body as the women had done, and uttering a low moaning sound, frequently ending in a loud
pech, like that of a paviour when he brings down his rammer.

I noticed he kept looking towards the east, watching, as I conjectured, the first appearance
of the morning star, but it was yet too early.

He lifted the gourd with the pork, and took a large mouthful.

"How is dis?  I can't put dis meat in Quacco's coffin, dere is salt in de pork; Duppy can't
bear salt," another large mouthful--"Duppy hate salt too much,"--here he ate it all up, and
placed the empty gourd in the coffin. He then took up the one with boiled yam in it, and tasted
it also.

"Salt here too--who de debil do such a ting?--must not let Duppy taste dat." He discussed this
also, placing the empty vessel in the coffin as he had done with the other.  He then came to
the calabash with the rum. There is no salt there, thought I.

"Rum! ah, Duppy love rum--if it be well strong, let me see Massa Niger, who put water in a
dis rum, eh?  Duppy will never touch dat"--a long pull--"no, no, never touch dat." Here he
finished the whole, and placed the empty vessel beside the others; then gradually sunk back
on his hams with his mouth open, and his eyes starting from the sockets, as he peered up into
the tree, apparently at some terrible object. I looked up also, and saw a large yellow snake,
nearly ten feet long, let itself gradually down directly over the coffin, between me and the
bright glare, (the outline of its glossy mottled skin glancing in the strong light, which gave
its dark opaque body the appearance of being edged with flame, and its glittering tongue, that
of a red hot wire,) with its tail round a limb of the cottontree, until its head reached within
an inch of the dead man's face, which it licked with its long forked tongue, uttering a loud
hissing noise.

I was fascinated with terror, and could not move a muscle; at length the creature slowly swung
itself up again, and disappeared amongst the branches.

Quashie gained courage, as the rum began to operate, and the snake to disappear.  "Come to
catch Quaccols Duppy, before him get to Africa, sure as can be.  De metody parson say de debil
old sarpant--dat must be old sarpant, for I never see so big one, so it must be debil."

He caught a glimpse of my face at this moment; it seemed that I had no powers of fascination
like the snake, for he roared out, "Murder, murder, de debil, de debil, first like a sarpent,
den like himself; see him white face behind de tree; see him white face behind de tree;" and
then, in the extremity of his fear, he popt, head foremost, into the grave, leaving his quivering
legs and feet sticking upwards, as if he had been planted by the head, like a forked parsnip
reversed.

At this uproar, a number of negroes ran out of the nearest houses, and, to my surprise, four
white seamen appeared suddenly amongst them, who, the moment they got sight of my uniform,
as I ran away, gave chase, and having overtaken me, as I stumbled in the dark path, immediately
pinioned me. They were all armed, and I had no doubt were part of the crew of the smuggling
schooner, and that they had a depot amongst the negro houses.

"Yo ho, my hearty, heave--to, or here goes with a brace of bullets."

I told them who I was, and that curiosity alone brought me there.

"Gammon, tell that to the marines; you're a spy, messmate, and on board you go with us, so
sure as I be Paul Brandywine."

Here was a change with a vengeance.  An hour before I was surrounded by friends, and resting
comfortably, in my ward bed, and now I was a prisoner to a set of brigands, who were smugglers
at the best, and what might they not be at the worst? I had no chance of escape by any sudden
effort of strength or activity, for a piece of a handspike had been thrust across my back,
passing under both of my arms, which were tightly lashed to it, as if I had been trussed for
roasting, so that I could no more run, with a chance of escape, than a goose without her pinions.
After we left the negro houses, I perceived, with some surprise, that my captors kept the beaten
tract, leading directly to, and past the overseer's dwelling. "Come, here is a chance, at all
events," argued I to myself.  "If I get within hail, I will alarm the lieges, if a deuced good
pipe don't fail me."

This determination had scarcely been framed in my mind, when, as if my very thoughts had been
audible, the smuggler next me on the right hand drew a pistol, and held it close to my starboard
ear.

"Friend, if you tries to raise the house, or speaks to any Niger, or other person we meets,
I'll walk through your skull with two ounces of lead."

"You are particularly obliging," said I; "but what do you promise yourselves by carrying me
off?  Were you to murder me, you would be none the richer; for I have no valuables about me,
as you may easily ascertain by searching me."

"And do you think that freeborn Americans like we have kidnapped you for your dirty rings,
and watch, and mayhap a few dollars, which I takes you to mean by your waluboles, as you calls
them?"

"Why, then, what, in the devil's name, have you kidnapped me for?" And I began to feel my choler
overpowering my discretion, when Mr Paul Brandywine, who I now suspected to be the mate of
the smuggler, took the small liberty of jerking the landyard, that had been made fast to the
middle of the handspike, so violently, that I thought both my shoulders w ere dislocated; for
I was fairly checked down on my back, just as you may have seen a pig--merchant on the Fermoy
road bring an uproarious boar to his marrowbones; while the man who had previously threatened
to blow my brains out, knelt beside me, and civilly insinuated, that "if I was tired of my
life, he calculated I had better speak as loud again."

There was no jest in all this; so I had nothing for it but to walk silently along with my escort,
after having gathered myself up as well as I could.  We crept so close under the windows of
the overseer's house, where we picked up a lot of empty ankers, slung on a long pole, that
I fancied I heard, or really did hear, some one snore--oh how I envied the sleeper!  At length
we reached the beach, where we found two men lying on their oars, in what, so far as I could
distinguish, appeared to be a sharp swift--looking whale boat, which they kept close to, with
her head seaward, however, to be ready for a start should any thing suspicious appear near to them.

The boat--keeper hailed promptly, "Who goes there?" as they feathered their oars.

"The tidy little Wave," was the answer.

No more words passed, and the men who had, in the first instance, pulled a stroke or two to
give the boat way, now backed water, and tailed her on to the beach, when we all stepped on board.

Two of my captors now took each an oar; we shoved off, and glanced away through the darkness,
along the smooth surface of the sparkling sea, until we reached the schooner, by this time
hauled out into the fairway at the mouth of the cove, where she lay hove short, with her mainsail
hoisted up, riding to the land--wind, and apparently all ready to cants and be off the moment
the boat returned.

As we came alongside, the captain of her, my friend Obediah, as I had no difficulty in guessing,
from his very out of the way configuration, dark as it was, called out, "I says, Paul, who
have you got in the starn--sheets there?"

"A bloody spy, captain; he who was with the overseer when he peppered your sheathing t'other
morning."

"Oho, bring him on board--bring him on board. I knows there be a man--of--war schooner close
aboard of the island somewheres hereabouts. I sees through it all, smash my eyes!--I sees through
it.  But what kept you, Paul?  Don't you see the morning star has risen?"

By this time I stood on the deck of the little vessel, which was no above a foot out of the
water; and Obediah, as he spoke, pointed to the small dark pit of a companion, for there was
no light below, nor indeed anywhere on board, except in the binnacle, and that carefully masked,
indicating by his threatening manner, that I was to get below as speedily as possible.

"Don't you see the morning star, sir?  Why, the sun will be up in an hour, I calculate, and
then the sea--breeze will be down on us before we get any thing of an offing."

The mention of the morning star recalled vividly to my recollection the scene I had so recently
witnessed at the negro wake; it seemed there was another person beside poor Quacco, likely
to be crammed into a hole before the day broke, and to be carried to Africa too, for what I
knew; but one must needs go when the devil drives, so I slipped down into the cabin, and the
schooner having weighed, made sail to the northward.

CHAPTER VIII

The Chase of the Smuggler

Would I were in an alehouse in London, I would give all my fame for a pot of ale, and safety.'

HENRY V, III. II. I2--I3.

The crib in which I was confined was as dark as pitch, and, as I soon found, as hot as the
black--hole in Calcutta.  I don't pretend to be braver than my neighbours, but I would pluck
any man by the beard who called me coward.  In my small way I had in my time faced death in
various shapes; but it had always been above board, with the open heaven overhead, and generally
I had a goodly fellowship in danger, and the eyes of others were upon me.  No wonder, then,
that the sinking of the heart within me, which I now experienced for the first time, was bitter
exceedingly, and grievous to be 'borne.  Cooped up in a small suffocating cabin, scarcely eight
feet square, and not above four feet high, with the certainty of being murdered, as I conceived,
were I to try to force my way on deck, and the knowledge that all my earthly prospects, all
my dreams of promotion, were likely to be blasted, and for ever ruined by my sudden spiriting
away, not to take into the heavy tale the misery which my poor mother and my friends must suffer,
when they came to know it--and "who will tell this to thee, Mary?" rose to my throat, but could
get no farther for a cursed bump that was like to throttle me.  Why should I blush to own it--when
the gipsy, after all, junked an old rich goutified coffee--planter at the eleventh hour, and
married me, and is now the mother of half--a--dozen little Cringles or so?  However, I made
a strong effort to bear my misfortunes like a man, and, folding my arms, I sat down on a chest
to abide my fate, whatever that might be, with as much composure as I could command, when half--a--dozen
cockroaches flew flicker against my face.

For the information of those who have never seen this delicious insect, I take leave to mention
here, that, when full grown, it is a large dingy brown--coloured beetle, about two inches long,
with six legs, and two f eelers as long as its body.  It has a strong anti--hysterical flavour,
something between rotten cheese and assafoetida, and seldom stirs aboard when the sun is up,
but lies concealed in the most obscure and obscene crevices it can creep into; so that, when
it is seen, its wings and body are thickly covered with dust and dirt of various shades, which
any culprit who chances to fall asleep with his mouth open, is sure to reap the benefit of,
as it has a great propensity to walk into it, partly for the sake of the crumbs adhering to
the masticators, and also, apparently, with a scientific desire to inspect, by accurate admeasurement
with the aforesaid antennae, the state and condition of the whole potato trap.

At the same time I felt something gnawing the toe of my boot, which I inferred to be a rat--another
agreeable customer for which I had a special abhorrence; but, as for beetles of all kinds,
from my boyhood up, they had been an abomination unto me, and a cockroach is the most abominable
of all beetles; so between the two I was speedily roused from my state of supine, or rather
dogged endurance; and, forgetting the geography of my position, I sprung to my feet, whereby
I nearly fractured my skull against the low deck above. I first tried the skylight; it was
battened down--then the companion hatch; it was locked--but the ladder leading up to it being
cooler than the noisome vapour bath I had left, I remained standing in it, trying to catch
a mouthful of fresh air through the joints of the door.  All this while we had been slipping
along shore with the land--wind on our beam, at the rate of five or six knots, but so gently
and silently, that I could distinctly hear the roar of the surf, as the long smooth swell broke
on the beach, which, from the loudness of the noise, could not be above a mile to windward
of us. I perceived at the same time that the schooner, although going free, did not keep away
nor take all the advantage of the land--wind to make his easting, before the sea--breeze set
down, that he might have done, so that it was evident he did not intend to beat up, so as to
fetch the Crooked Island Passage, which would have been his course, had he been bound for the
States; but was standing over to the Cuba shore, at that time swarming with pirates.

It was now good daylight, and the terral gradually died away, and left us rolling gunwale under,
as we rose and fell on the long seas, with our sails flapping, bulkheads creaking and screaming,
and mainboom jig--jigging, as if it would have torn every thing to pieces.  I could hear my
friend Obed walking the deck, and whistling manfully for the sea--breeze, and exclaiming from
time to time in his barbarous lingo, "Souffle, souffle, San Antonio." But the saint had no
bowels, and there we lay roasting until near ten o'clock in the forenoon.  During all this
period, Obed, who was shortsighted, as I learned afterwards, kept desiring his right arm, Paul
Brandywine, to keep a bright look--out for the sea--breeze to windward, or rather to the eastward,
for there was no wind--because he knowed it often times tumbling down right sudden and dangerous
at this season about the corner of the island hereabouts; and the pride of the morning often
brought a shower with it, fit to level a maize plat smooth as his hand.

"No black clouds to windward yet, Paul?"

Paul could see nothing, and the question was repeated three or four times.

"There is a small black cloud about the size of my hand to windward, sir, right in the wake
of the sun, just now, but it won't come to any thing; I sees no signs of any wind."

"And Elijah said to his servant, Go up now, and look towards the sea, and he went up and looked,
and said there is nothing; and he said go again seven times, and it came to pass the seventh
time, that he said behold there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand."

I knew what this foreboded, which, as I thought, was more than friend Obed did; for he shortened
no sail, and kept all his kites abroad, for no use as it struck me, unless he wished to wear
them out by flapping against the masts.  He was indeed a strange mixture of skill and carelessness;
but, when fairly stirred up, one of the most daring and expert and self--possessed seamen I
had ever seen, as very soon had an ugly opportunity of ascertaining.

The cloud on the horizon continued to rise rapidly, spreading over the whole eastern sky, and
the morning began to lower very ominously; but there was no sudden squall, the first of the
breeze coming down as usual in cats' paws, and freshening gradually; nor did I expect there
would be, although I was certain it would soon blow a merry capful of wind, which might take
in some of the schooner's small sails, and pretty considerably bother us, unless we could better
our offing speedily, for it blew right on shore, which, by the setting in of the sea--breeze,
was now close under our lee.

At length the sniffler reached us, and the sharp little vessel began to speak, as the rushing
sound through the water is called; while the wind sang like an Eolian harp through the taut
weather--rigging.  Presently I heard the word given to take in the two gaff--topsails and flying
jib, which was scarcely done, when the moaning sound roughened into a roar, and the little
vessel began to yerk at the head seas, as if she would have cut through them, in place of rising
to them, and to lie over, as if Davy Jones himself had clapperclawed the mast heads, and was
in the act of using them as levers to capsize her, while the sails were tugging at her, as
if they would have torn the spars out of her, so that I expected every moment, either that
she would turn over, keel up, or that the masts would snap short off by the deck.

All this, which I would without the smallest feeling of dread, on the contrary with exhilaration,
have faced cheerily on deck in the course of duty, proved at the time, under my circumstances,
most alarming and painful to me; a fair--strae death out of the maintop, or off the weather--yard
arm, would to my imagination have been an easy exit comparatively; but to be choked in this
abominable hole, and drowned darkling like a blind puppy--the very thought made me frantic,
and I shouted and tumbled about, until I missed my footing and fell backwards down the ladder,
from the bottom of which I scuttled away to the lee--side of the cabin, quiet, through absolute
despair and exhaustion from the heat and closeness.

I had remarked that from the time the breeze freshened, the everlasting Yankee drawling of
the crew, and the endless confabulation of the captain and his mate, had entirely ceased, and
nothing was now heard on deck but the angry voice of the raging elements, and at intervals
a shrill piercing word or two from Obed, in the altered tone of which I had some difficulty
in recognising his pipe, which rose clear and distinct above the roar of the sea and wind,
and was always answered by a prompt, sharp, "ay, ay, sir," from the men.  There was no circumlocution,
nor calculating, nor guessing now, but all hands seemed to be doing their duty energetically
and well.  "Come, the vagabonds are sailors after all, we shan't be swamped this turn;" and
I resumed my place on the companion ladder, with more ease of mind, and a vast deal more composure,
than when I was pitched from it when the squall came on.  In a moment after I could hear the
captain sing out, loud even above the howling of the wind and rushing of the water, "There
it comes at last--put your helm hard a--port--down with it, Paul, down with it, man--luff,
and shake the wind out of her sails, or over we goes, clean and for ever.' Everything was jammed,
nothing could be let go, nor was there an axe at hand to make short work with the sheets and
haulyards; and for a second or two I thought it was all over, the water rushing half way up
her decks, and bubbling into the companion through the crevices; but at length the lively little
craft came gaily to the wind, shaking her plumage like a wild duck; the sails were got in,
all to the foresail, which was set with the bonnet off, and then she lay--to like a seagull,
without shipping a drop of water.  In the comparative stillness I could now distinctly hear
every word that was said on deck.

"Pretty near it; rather close shaving that same, captain," quoth Paul, with a congratulatory
chuckle; 'but I say, sir, what is that wreath of smoke rising from Annotta Bay over the headland?"

"Why, how should I know, Paul?  Negroes burning brush, I guess."

"The smoke from brushwood never rose and flew over the bluff with that swirl, I calculate;
it is a gun, or I mistake."

And he stepped to the companion for the purpose, as I conceived, of taking out the spy--glass,
which usually hangs there in brackets fitted to hold it; he undid the hatch and pushed it back,
when I popped my head out, to the no small dismay of the mate; but Obed was up to me, and while
with one hand he seized the glass, he ran the sliding top sharp up against my neck, till he
pinned me into a kind of pillory, to my great annoyance; so I had to beg to be released, and
once more slunk back into my hole.  There was a long pause; at length Paul, to whom the skipper
had handed the spy--glass, spoke.

"A schooner, sir, is rounding the point."

As I afterwards learned, the negroes who had witnessed my capture, especially the old man who
had taken me for his infernal majesty, had raised the alarm, so soon as they could venture
down to the overseer's house, which was on the smuggling boat shoving off, and Mr Fyall immediately
despatched an express to the Lieutenant commanding the Gleam, then lying in Annotta Bay, about
ten miles distant, when she instantly slipped and shoved out.

"Well, I can't help it if there be," rejoined the captain.  Another pause.

"Why, I don't like her, sir; she looks like a man--of--war--and that must have been the smoke
of the gun she fired on weighing.'

"Eh?" sharply answered Obed, "if it be, it will be a hanging matter if we are caught with this
young splice on board; he may belong to her for what I know.  Look again, Paul."

A long, long look.

"A man--of--war schooner, sure enough, sir; I can see her ensign and pennant, now that she
is clear of the land."

"Oh Lord, oh Lord!" cried Obed, in great perplexity, "what shall we do?"

"Why, pull foot, Captain," promptly replied Paul; "the breeze has lulled, and in light winds
she will have no chance with the tidy little Wave."

I could now perceive that the smugglers made all sail, and I heard the frequent swish--swish
of the water, as they threw bucketfuls on the sails, to thicken them and make them hold more
wind, while we edged away, keeping as close to the wind, however, as we could, without stopping
her way.

"Starboard," quoth Obed--"rap full, Jem--let her walk through it, my boy--there, main and foresail,
flat as boards; why, she will stand the main--gaff--topsail yet--set it, Paul, set it;" and
his heart warmed as he gained confidence in the qualifications of his vessel.  "Come, weather
me now, see how she trips it along--poo, I was an ass to quail, wan't I, Paul?"

No chance, now, thought I, as I descended once more; "I may as well go and be suffocated at
once." I knocked my foot against something, in stepping off the ladder, which, on putting down
my hand, I found to be tinder--box, with steel and flint. I had formerly ascertained there
was a candle in the cabin, on the small table, stuck into a bottle; so I immediately struck
a light, and as I knew that meekness and solicitation, having been tried in vain, would not
serve me, I determined to go on the other tack, and to see how far an assumption of coolness
and self--possession, or, it might be, a dash of bravado, whether true or feigned, might not
at least ensure me some consideration and better treatment from the lawless gang into whose
hands I had fallen.

So I set to and ransacked the lockers, where, amongst a vast variety of miscellaneous matters,
I was not long in finding a bottle of very tolerable rum, some salt junk, some biscuit, and
a goglet or porous earthen jar of water, with some capital cigars.  By this time I was like
to faint with the heat and smell; so I filled a tumbler with good half--and--half and swigged
it off.  The effect was speedy; I thought I could eat a bit, so I attacked the salt junk and
made a hearty meal, after which I replenished my tumbler, lighted a cigar, pulled off my coat
and waistcoat, and, with a sort of desperate glee, struck up at the top of my pipe, "Ye Mariners
of England." My joviality was soon noticed on deck.

"Eh, what be that?" quoth Obed,--"that be none of our ditties, I guess? who is singing below
there?'

"We be all on deck, sir,' responded Paul.

"It can't be the spy, eh?--sure enough it must be he, and no one else; the heat and choke must
have made him mad."

"We shall soon see," said Paul, as he removed the skylight, and looked down into the cabin.

Obed looked over his shoulder, peering at me with his little short--sighted pig's eyes, into
which, in my pot valiancy, I immediately chucked half a tumbler of very strong grog, and under
cover of it attempted to bolt through the scuttle, and thereby gain the deck; but Paul, with
his shoulder of mutton fist, gave me a very unceremonious rebuff, and down I dropped again.

"You makes yourself at home, I sees, and be hanged to you," said Obed, laying the emphasis
on the last word, pronouncing it "yoo--oo" in two syllables.

"I do, indeed, and be d--d to yoo--oo," I replied; "and why should I not? the visit was not
volunteered, you know so come down, you long--legged Yankee smuggling scoundrel, or I'll blow
your bloody buccaneering craft out of the water like the peel of an onion.  You see I have
got the magazine scuttle up, and there are the barrels of powder, and here is the candle, so"--

Obed laughed like the beginning of the bray of the jackass before he swings off into his "heehaw,
heehaw."--"Smash my eyes, man, but them barrels be full of pimento, all but that one with the
red mark, and that be crackers fresh and sharp from the Brandywine mills."

"Well, well, gunpowder or pimento, I'll set fire to it if you don't be civil."

"Why, I will be civil; you are a curious chap, a brave slip, to carry it so, with no friend
near; so, civil I will be."

He unlocked the companion hatch and came down to the cabin, doubling his long limbs up like
foot--rules, to suit the low roof.

"Free and easy, my man," continued the Captain, as he entered.  "Well, I forgive you--we are
quits now--and if we were not beyond the Island Craft, I would put you ashore, but I can't
stand back now."  "Why, may I ask?" "Simply, because one of your men--of--war schooners an't
more than hull down astarn of me at this moment; she is working up in shore, and has not chased
me as yet; indeed she may save herself the trouble, for ne'er a schooner in your blasted service
has any chance with the tidy little Wave."

I was by no means so sure of this.

"Well Master Obediah, it may turn up as you say, and in a light wind, I know you will either
sail or sweep away from any one of them; but, to be on the square with you, if it comes on
to blow, that same hooker, which I take to be his Britannic Majesty's schooner Gleam, will,
from his greater beam, and superior length, out carry and forereach on you, ay, and weather
on you too, hand over hand; so this is my compact--if he nails you, you will require a friend
at court, and I will stand that friend; if you escape--and I will not interfere either by advice
or otherwise, either to get you taken or to get you clear will you promise to put me on board
of the first English merchant vessel we fall in with, or, at the longest, to land me at St
Jago de Cuba, and I will promise you, on my honour, notwithstanding all that has been said
or done, that I will never hereafter inform against you, or in any way get you into trouble
if I can help it.  Is it done?  Will you ive me your hand upon it?"

Obed did not hesitate a moment; he clenched my hand, and squeezed it till the blood nearly
spouted from my finger--ends; one might conceive of Norwegian bears greeting each other after
this fashion, but I trust no Christian will ever, in time coming, subject my digits to a similar
species of torture.

"Agreed, my boy, I have promised, and you may depend on me; smuggler though I be, and somewhat
worse on occasion mayhap, I never breaks my word."

There was an earnestness about the poor fellow, in which I thought there could be no deception,
and from that moment we were on what I may call a very friendly footing for a prisoner and
his jailer.

"Well, now, I believe you, so let us have a glass of grog, and"--

Here the mate sung out, "Captain, come on deck, if you please; quickly, sir, quickly."

By this time it had begun to breeze up again, and as the wind rose, I could see the spirits
of the crew fell, as if conscious they had no chance if it freshened.  When we went on deck,
Paul was still peering through the telescope.

"The schooner has tacked, sir." A dead silence; then giving the glass a swing, and driving
the joints into each other, with such vehemence as if he would have broken them in pieces,
he exclaimed, "She is after us, so sure as I ben't a niger."

"No! is she though?" eagerly enquired the captain, as he at length seized the spy--glass, twisting
and turning it about and about, as he tried to hit his own very peculiar focus.  At length
he took a long, long, breathless look, while the eyes of the whole crew, some fifteen hands
or so, were riveted upon him with the most intense anxiety.

"What a gaff--topsail she has got--my eye!--and a ringtail with more cloths in it than our
squaresail--and the breeze comes down stronger and stronger!"

All this while I looked out equally excited, but with a very different interest.  "Come, this
will do,' thought I; 'she is after us; and if old Dick Casket brings that fiery sea--breeze
he has now along with him, we shall puzzle the smuggler, for all his long start."

"There's a gun, sir," cried Paul, trembling from head to foot.

"Sure enough," said the skipper; "and it must be a signal.  And there go three flags at the
fore.--She must, I'll bet a hundred dollars, have taken our tidy little Wave for the Admiral's
tender that was lying in Morant Bay."

"Blarney," thought I; "tidy as your little Wave is, she won't deceive old Dick--he is not the
man to take a herring for a horse; she must be making signals to some man--of--war in sight."

"A strange sail right a--head," sung out three men from forward all at once.

"Didn't I say so?"--I had only thought so.  "Come, Master Obediah, it thickens now, you're
in for it," said I.

But he was not in the least shaken; as the matter grew serious, he seemed to brace up to meet
it.  He had been flurried at the first, but he was collected and cool as a cucumber now, when
he saw every thing depending on his seamanship and judgment.  Not so Paul, who seemed to have
made up his mind that they must be taken.

"Jezebel Brandywine, you are but a widowed old lady, I calculate. I shall never see the broad,
smooth Chesapeake again--no more peach brandy for Paul;" and folding his arms, he set himself
doggedly down on the low tafferel.

Little did I think at the time how fearfully the poor fellow's foreboding was so soon to be
fulfilled.

"There again," said I, "a second puff to windward." This was another signal gun I knew; and
I went forward to where the captain was reconnoitring the sail a--head through the glass. 
"Let me see," said I, "and I will be honest with you, and tell you if I know her."

He handed me the glass at once, and the instant I saw the top of her courses above the water,
I was sure, from the red cross in her foresail, that she was the Firebrand, the very corvette
to which I was appointed. She was so well to windward, that I considered it next to impossible
that we should weather her, but Obediah seemed determined to try it.  After seeing his little
vessel snug under mainsail, foresail, and jib, which was as much as she could stagger under,
and every thing right and tight, and all clear to make more sail should the breeze lull, he
ordered the men below, and took the helm himself.  What queer animals sailors are!  We were
rising the corvette fast; and on going aft again from the bows, where I had been looking at
her, I cast my eye down the hatchway into the men's berth, and there were the whole crew at
breakfast, laughing and joking, and enjoying themselves, as heartily, apparently, nay, I verily
believe in reality, as if they had been in a yacht on a cruise of pleasure, in place of having
one enemy nearly within gunshot astern, and another trying to cut them off ahead.

At this moment the schooner in chase luffed up in the wind, and I noticed the foot of the foresail
lift.  "You'll have it now, friend Obed; there's at you in earnest." While I spoke, a column
of thick white smoke spouted over the bows of the Gleam, about twenty yards to windward, and
then blew back again amongst the sails and rigging, as if a gauze veil had for an instant been
thrown over the little vessel, rolling off down the wind to leeward, in whirling eddies, growing
thinner and thinner, until it disappeared altogether.  I heard the report this time, and the
shot fell close alongside of us.

"A good mark with that apple," coolly observed the Captain; "the Long Tom must be a tearer,
to pitch its mouthful of iron this length."

Another succeeded; and if I had been still pinned up in the companion, there would have been
no log now, for it went crash through into the hold.

"Go it, my boys," shouted I; "a few more as well aimed, and heigh for the Firebrand's gunroom!"

At the mention of the Firebrand I thought Obed started, but he soon recovered himself, and
looking at me with all the apparent composure in the world, he smiled as he said, "Not so fast,
Lieutenant; you and I have not drank our last glass of swizzle yet, I guess.  If I can but
weather that chap ahead, I don't fear the schooner."

The corvette had by this time answered the signal from the Gleam, and had hauled his wind also,
so that I did not conceive it possible that the Wave could scrape clear, without coming under
his broadside.

"You won't try it, Obed, surely?'

"Answer me this, and I'll tell you," rejoined he.  "Does that corvette now carry long 18's
or 32--pound carronades?"

"She carries 32--pound carronades.'

"Then you'll not sling your cot in her gunroom this cruise."

All this time the little Wave was carrying to it gallantly, her jib--boom bending like whalebone,
and her long slender topmasts whipping about like a couple of fishing--rods, as she thrashed
at it, sending the spray flashing over her mastheads at every pitch; but notwithstanding her
weatherly qualities, the heavy cross sea, as she drove into it, headed her off bodily, and
she could not prevent the Gleam from creeping up on her weather quarter, where she peppered
away from her long 24--pounder, throwing the shot over and over us.

To tack, therefore, would have been to run into the lion's mouth, and to bear up was equally
hopeless, as the corvette, going free, would have chased her under water; the only chance remaining
was to stand on, and trust to the breeze taking off, and try to weather the ship, now about
three miles distant on our lee bow, braced sharp up on the opposite tack, and evidently quite
aware of our game.

As the corvette and the Wave neared each other, he threw a shot at us from the boat gun on
his topgallant forecastle, as if to ascertain beyond all doubt the extent of our insanity,
and whether we were serious in our attempt to weather him and escape.

Obed held right on his course, like grim Death.  Another bullet whistled over our mastheads,
and, with the aid of the glass, I could see by the twinkling of feet, and here and there a
busy peering face through the ports, that the crew were at quarters fore and aft, while fourteen
marines or so were all ready rigged on the poop, and the nettings were bristling through the
whole length of the ship, with fifty or sixty small--arm men.

All this I took care to communicate to Obediah.  "I say, my good friend, I see little to laugh
at in all this.  If you do go to windward of him at all, which I greatly doubt, you will have
to cross his fore--foot within pistol--shot at the farthest, and then you will have to rasp
along his whole broadside of great and small, and they are right well prepared and ready for
you, that I can tell you; the skipper of that ship has had some hedication, I guess, in the
war on your coast, for he seems up to your tricks, and I don't doubt but he will tip you the
stem, if need be, with as little compunction as I would kill a cockroach, devil confound the
whole breed!  There,--I see his marines and small--arm men handling their firelocks, as thick
as sparrows under the lee of a hedge in a snow--storm, and the people are training the bull--dogs
fore and aft.  Why, this is downright, stark staring lunacy, Obed; we shall be smashed like
an eggshell, and all hands of us whipped off to Davy, from your cursed foolhardiness."

I had made several pauses in my address, expecting an answer, but Obed was mute as a stone.
At length I took the glass from my eye, and turned round to look at him, startled by his silence.

I might have heard of such things, but I had never before seen the working of the spirit so
forcibly and fearfully demonstrated by the aspect of the outward man.  With the exception of
myself, he was the only man on deck, as before mentioned, and by this time he was squatted
down on it, with his long legs and thighs thrust down into the cabin, through the open skylight.
The little vessel happened to carry a weather helm, so that his long sinewy arms, with their
large veins and leaders strained to cracking, covered but a small way below the elbow by his
jacket, were stretched as far as they could clutch the tiller to windward, and his enormous
head, supported on his very short trunk, that seemed to be countersunk into the deck, gave
him a most extraordinary appearance.  But this was not all; his complexion, usually sallow
and sunburnt, was now ghastly and blue, like that of the corpse of a drowned man; the muscles
of the neck, and the flesh of the cheeks and chin were rigid and fixed, and shrunk into one
half of their usual compass; the lips were so compressed that they had almost entirely disappeared,
and all that marked his mouth was a black line; the nostrils were distended, and thin and transparent,
while the forehead was shrivelled into the most minute and immovable wrinkles, as if done with
a crimping instrument while over his eyes, or rather his eye, for he kept one closed as if
it had been hermetically sealed, he had lashed with half a dozen turns of spun--yarn a wooden
socket, like the but--end of an opera glass, fitted with some sort of magnifier, through which
he peered out ahead most intensely, stooping down, and stretching his long bare neck to its
utmost reach, that he might see under the foot of the foresail.

I had scarcely time to observe all this, when a round shot came through the head of the mainsail,
grazing the mast, and the very next instant a bushel of grape, from one of the bow guns, a
32--pound carronade, was crashed in on us amidships. I flung down the glass, and dived through
the companion into the cabin--I am not ashamed to own it; and any man who would undervalue
my courage in consequence, can never, taking into consideration the peculiarities of my situation,
have known the appalling sound, or infernal effect of a discharge of grape.  Round shot in
broadsides is a joke to it; musketry is a joke to it; but only conjure up in your imagination,
a shower of iron bullets, of the size of well--grown plums, to the number of from sixty to
one hundred and twenty, taking effect within a circle, not above ten feet in diameter, and
that all this time there was neither honour nor glory in the case, for I was a miserable captive,
and I fancy I may save myself the trouble of farther enlargement.

I found that the crew had by this time started and taken up the planks of the cabin floor,
and had stowed themselves well down into the run, so as to be as much out of harm's way as
they could manage, but there was neither fear nor flinching amongst them; and although totally
devoid of all gasconade--on the contrary, they had taken all the precautions men could do in
their situation, to keep out of harm's way, or at least to lessen the danger--there they sat,
silent, and cool, and determined.  "I shall never undervalue an American as an enemy again,"
thought I. I lay down on the side of the little vessel, now nearly level as she lay over, alongside
of Paul Brandywine, in a position that commanded a view of Obed's face through the small scuttle.
Ten minutes might have elapsed--a tearing crash--and a rattle on the deck overhead, as if a
shower of stones had been thrown from aloft on it.

"That's through the mainmast, I expect," quoth Paul.

I looked from him to the Captain; a black thick stream of blood was trickling down behind his
ear.  Paul had noticed it also.

"You are hurt by one of them splinters, I see; give me the helm now, Captain;" and, crushed
down as the poor fellow appeared to be under some fearful and mysterious consciousness of impending
danger, he nevertheless addressed himself to take his Captain's place.

"Hold your blasted tongue"--was the polite rejoinder.

"I say, Captain,"--shouted your humble servant, "you may as well eat pease with a pitchfork,
as try to weather him.  You are hooked, man, flounder as you will.  Old Nick can't shake you
clear--so I won't stand this any longer;" and making a spring, I jammed myself through the
skylight, until I sat on the deck, looking aft, and confronting him, and there we were, stuck
up like the two kings of Brentford, or a couple of smiling cherries on one stalk. I have often
laughed over the figure we must have cut, but at the time there was that going on that would
have made Comus himself look grave. I had at length fairly aroused the sleeping devil within him.

"Look out there, Lieutenant--look out there,"--and he pointed with his sinister claw down to
leeward. I did so--whew!--what a sight for poor Master Thomas Cringle!  "You are booked for
an outside place, Master Tommy," thought I to myself--for there was the corvette in very truth--she
had just tacked, and was close aboard of us on our lee quarter, within musket--shot at the
farthest, bowling along upon a wind, with the green, hissing, multitudinous sea surging along
her sides, and washing up in foam, like snow flakes, through the mid--ship ports, far aft on
the quarterdeck, to the glorification of jack, who never minds a wet jacket, so long as he
witnesses the discomfiture of his ally, Peter Pipeclay.  The press of canvass she was carrying
laid her over, until her copper sheathing, clear as glass, and glancing like gold, was seen
high above the water, throughout her whole length, above which rose her glossy jet black bends,
surmounted by a milk--white streak, broken at regular intervals into eleven goodly ports, from
which the British cannon, ugly customers at the best, were grinning, tompion out, open--mouthed
at us; and above all, the clean, well--stowed white hammocks filled the nettings, from tafferel
to cathead oh! that I had been in one of them, snug on the berth deck!  Aloft, a cloud of white
sail swelled to the breeze, till the cloth seemed inclined to say goodby to the bolt ropes,
bending the masts like willow--wands, as if the devil, determined to beat Paganini himself,
was preparing fiddlesticks to play a spring with, on the cracking and straining weather shrouds
and backstays, and tearing her sharp wedge--like bows out of the bowels of the long swell,
until the cutwater, and ten yards of the keel next to it, were hove clean out of the sea, into
which she would descend again with a roaring plunge, burying every thing up to the hause--holes,
and driving the brine into mist, over the fore--top, like vapour from a waterfall, through
which, as she rose again, the bright red copper on her bows flashed back the sunbeams in momentary
rainbows.  We were so near, that I could with the naked eye distinctly see the faces of the
men.  There were at least I50 determined fellows at quarters, and clustered with muskets in
their hands, wherever they could be posted to most advantage.

There they were in groups about the ports, (I could even see the captains of the guns, examining
the locks,) in their clean white frocks and trowsers, the officers of the ship, and the marines,
clearly distinguishable by their blue or red jackets.  I could discern the very sparkle of
the epaulets.

High overhead, the red cross, that for a thousand years "has braved the battle and the breeze,"
blew out strong from the peak, like a sheet of flickering white flame, or a thing instinct
with life, struggling to tear away the ensign haulyards, and to escape high into the clouds;
while, from the main--royal--masthead, the long white pennant streamed upwards into the azure
heavens, like a ray of silver light.  Oh! it was a sight "most beautiful to see," as the old
song hath it,------but I confess I would have preferred that pleasure from t'other side of
the hedge.

There was no hailing nor trumpeting, although, as we crossed on opposite tacks when we first
weathered her, just before she hove in stays, I had heard a shrill voice sing out, "Take good
aim, men--Fire"; but now each cannon in thunder shot forth its glance of flame, without a word
being uttered, as she kept away to bring them to bear in succession, while the long feathery
cloud of whirling white smoke that shrouded her sides from stem to stem, was sparkling brilliantly
throughout with crackling musketry, for all the world like fire--flies in a bank of night fog
from the hills, until the breeze blew it back again through the rigging, and once more unveiled
the lovely craft in all her pride and glory.

"You see all that?' said Obed.

"To be sure I do, and I feel something too'; for a sharp rasping jar was repeated in rapid
succession three or four times, as so many shot struck our hull, and made the splinters glance
about merrily; and the musketballs were mottling our top sides and spars, plumping into the
timber, whit whit! as thick as ever you saw schoolboys' plastering a church door with clay--pellets.
There was a heavy groan, and a stir amongst the seamen in the run.

"And, pray, do you see and hear all that yourself, Master Obed?  The iron has clenched some
of your chaps down there.--Stay a bit, you shall have a better dose presently, you obstinate old"--

He waved his hand, and interrupted me with great energy--"I dare not give in, I cannot give
in; all I have in the world swims in the little hooker, and strike I will not so long as two
planks stick together.

"Then," quoth I, "you are simply a damned, cold--blooded, calculating scoundrel--brave I will
never call you." I saw he was now stung to the quick.

"Lieutenant, smuggler as I am, don't goad me to what worse I may have been; there are some
deeds done in my time, which at a moment like this I don't much like to think upon.  I am a
desperate man, Master Cringle; don't, for your own sake, as well as mine, try me too far.'

"Well but"--persisted I. He would hear nothing.

"Enough said, sir, enough said; there was not an honester trader nor a happier man in all the
Union, until your infernal pillaging an burning squadron in the Chesapeake captured and ruined
me; but I paid it off on the prize--master, although we were driven on the rocks after all.
I paid it off, and, God help me, I have never thriven since, enemy although he was. I see the
poor fellow's face yet, as I!"--He checked himself suddenly, as if aware that he might say
more than could be conveniently retracted.  "But I dare not be taken; let that satisfy you,
Master Cringle, so go below--below with you, sir"--I saw he had succeeded in lashing himself
into a fury--"or, by the Almighty God, who hears me, I shall be tempted to do another deed,
the remembrance of which will haunt me till my dying day."

All this passed in no time, as we say, much quicker than one can read it; and I now saw that
the corvette had braced up sharp to the wind again, on the same tack that we were on; so I
slipped down like an eel, and once more stretched myself beside Paul, on the lee side of the
cabin.  We soon found that she was indeed after us in earnest, by the renewal of the cannonade,
and the breezing up of the small arms again.  Two round shot now tore right through the deck,
just beneath the larboard coamings of the main hatchway; the little vessel's deck, as she lay
over, being altogether exposed to, the enemy's fire, they made her whole frame tremble again,
smashing every thing in their way to shivers, and going right out through her bottom on the
opposite side, within a dozen streaks of her keel, while the rattling of the clustered grapeshot
every now and then made us start, the musketry all the while peppering away like a hail shower.
Still the skipper, who I expected every moment to see puffed away from the tiller like smoke,
held upon deck as if he had been bullet--proof, and seemed to escape the hellish tornado of
missiles of all sorts and sizes by a miracle.

"He is in league with the old one, Paul," said I; "howsoever, you must be nabbed, for you see
the ship is forereaching on you, and you can't go on t'other tack, surely, with these pretty
eyelet holes between wind and water on the weather side there?  Your captain is mad why will
you, then, and all these poor fellows, go down, because he dare not surrender, for some good
deed of his own, eh?"

The roar of the cannon and noise of the musketry made it necessary for me to raise my voice
here, which the small scuttle, like Dionysius's ear, conveyed unexpectedly to my friend, the
captain, on deck.

"Hand me up my pistols, Paul."

It had struck me before, and I was now certain, that from the time he had become so intensely
excited as he was now, he spoke with a pure English accent, without the smallest dash of Yankeeism.

"So, so; I see--no wonder you won't strike, you renegade," cried I.

"You have tampered with my crew, sir, and abused me," he announced, in a stem, slow tone, much
more alarming than his former fierceness, "so take that, to quiet you;" and deuce take me if
he did not, the moment he received the pistols from his mate, fire slap at me, the ball piercing
the large muscle of my neck on the right side, missing the artery by the merest accident. 
Thinking I was done for, I covered my face with my hands, and commanded myself to God, with
all the resignation that could be expected from a poor young fellow in my grievous circumstances,
expecting to be cut off in the prima vera of his days, and to part for ever from--.  Poo, that
there line is not my forte.  However, finding the haemorrhage by no means great, and that the
wound was in fact slight, I took the captain's rather strong hint to be still, and lay quiet,
until a 32--pound shot struck us bang on the quarter.  The subdued force with which it came,
showed that we were widening our distance, for it did not drive through and through with a
crash, but lodged in a timber; nevertheless it started one of the planks across which Paul
and I lay, and pitched us both with extreme violence bodily into the run amongst the men, three
of them lying amongst the ballast, which was covered with blood, two badly wounded, and one
dead. I came off with some slight bruises, however; not so the poor mate.  He had been nearest
the end or but that was started, which thereby struck him so forcibly, that it fractured his
spine, and dashed him amongst his shipmates, shrieking piercingly in his great agony, and clutching
whatever he could grasp with his hands, and tearing whatever he could reach with his teeth,
while his limbs below his waist were dead and paralysed.

"Oh, Christ! water, water," he cried, "water, for the love of God, water!" The crew did all
they could; but his torments increased--the blood began to flow from his mouth--his hands became
clay--cold and pulseless--his features sharp, blue, and death--like--his respiration difficult--the
choking death--rattle succeeded, and in ten minutes he was dead.

This was the last shot that told--every report became more and more faint, and the musketry
soon ceased altogether.

The breeze had taken off, and the Wave, resuming her superiority in light winds, had escaped.

CHAPTER IX

Cuba Fishermen

"El Pescador de Puerto Escondido, Pesca mas que Peseado, Quando la Luna redonda Reflexado en
la mar profunda. Pero cuidado, El pobre sera el nino perdido Si esta por Anglisman cogido.
Ay de mi".

It was now five in the afternoon, and the breeze continued to fall, and the sea to go down,
until sunset, by which time we had I run the corvette hull down, and the schooner nearly out
of sight.  Right ahead of us rose the high land of Cuba, to the westward of Cape Maize, clear
and well--defined against the northern sky; and as we neither hauled our wind to weather the
east end of the island, nor edged away for St Jago, it was evident, beyond all doubt, that
we were running right in for some one of the piratical haunts on the Cuba coast.

The crew now set to work, and removed the remains of their late messmate, and the two wounded
men, from where they lay upon the ballast in the Run, to their own berth forward in the bow
of the little vessel; they then replaced the planks which they had started, and arranged the
dead body of the mate along the cabin floor, close to where I lay, faint and bleeding, and
more heavily bruised than I had at first thought.

The captain was still at the helm; he had never spoken a word either to me or any of the crew,
since he had taken the trifling liberty of shooting me through the neck, and no thanks to him
that the wound was not mortal; but he now resumed his American accent, and began to drawl out
the necessary orders for repairing damages.

When I went on deck shortly afterwards, I was surprised beyond measure to perceive the injury
the little vessel had sustained, and the uncommon speed, handiness, and skill, with which it
had been repaired.  However lazily the command might appear to have been given, the execution
of it was quick as lightning.  The crew, now reduced to ten working hands, had, with an almost
miraculous promptitude, knotted and spliced the rigging, mended and shifted sails, fished the
sprung and wounded spars, and plugged and nailed lead over the shot--holes, and all within
half an hour.

I don't like Americans; I never did, and never shall like them; I have seldom met with an American
gentleman, in the large and complete sense of the terms.  I have no wish to eat with them,
drink with them, deal with, or consort with them in any way; but let me tell the whole truth,
nor fight with them, were it not for the laurels to be acquired, by overcoming an enemy so
brave, determined, and alert, and every way so worthy of one's steel, as they have always proved.
One used to fight with a Frenchman, as a matter of course, and for the fun of the thing as
it were, never dreaming of the possibility of Johnny Crapeau beating us, where there was any
thing approaching to an equality of force; but, say as much as we please about larger ships
and more men, and a variety of excuses which proud John Bull, with some truth very often I
will admit, has pertinaciously thrust forward to palliate his losses during the short war,
a regard for truth and fair dealing, which I hope are no scarce qualities amongst British seamen,
compels me to admit, that although I would of course peril my life and credit more readily
with an English crew, yet I believe a feather would turn the scale between the two countries,
so far as courage and seamanship goes; and let it not be forgotten, although we have now regained
our superiority in this respect, yet, in gunnery and smallarm practice, we were as thoroughly
weathered on by the Americans during the war, as we overtopped them in the bulldog courage
with which our boarders handled those genuine English weapons, the cutlass and the pike.

After the captain had given his orders, and seen the men fairly at work, he came down to the
cabin, still ghastly and pale, but with none of that ferocity stamped on his grim features,
from the outpouring of which I had suffered so severely.  He never once looked my way, no more
than if I had been a bundle of old junk; but folding his hands on his knee, he sat down on
a small locker, against which the feet of the dead mate rested, and gazed earnestly on his
face, which was immediately under the open skylight, through which, by this time, the clear
cold rays of the moon streamed full on it, the short twilight having already fled, chained
as it is in these climates to the chariot wheels of the burning sun.  My eye naturally followed
his, but I speedily withdrew it.  I had often bent over comrades who had been killed by gunshot
wounds, and always remarked, what is wellknown, that the features wore a benign expression,
bland and gentle, and contented as the face of a sleeping infant, while their limbs were composed
decently, often gracefully, like one resting after great fatigue, as if nature, like an affectionate
nurse, had arranged the deathbed of her departing child with more than usual care, preparatory
to his last long sleep; whereas those who had died from the thrust of a pike, or the blow of
a cutlass, however mild the living expression of their countenance might have been, were always
fearfully contorted both in body and face.

In the present instance, the eyes were wide open, white, prominent, and glazed like those of
a dead fish; the hair, which was remarkably fine, and had been worn in long ringlets, amongst
which a large gold earring glittered, the poor fellow having been a nautical dandy of the first
water was drenched and clotted into heavy masses with the death--sweat, and had fallen back
on the deck from his forehead, which was well formed, high, broad and massive.  His nose was
transparent, thin, and sharp, the tense skin on the bridge of it glancing in the silver light,
as if it had been glass.  His mouth was puckered on one side into angular wrinkles, like a
curtain drawn up awry, while a clotted stream of black gore crept from it sluggishly down his
right cheek, and coagulated in a heap on the deck.  His lower jaw had fallen, and there he
lay agape with his mouth full of blood.

His legs, indeed his whole body below his loins, where the fracture of the spine had taken
place, rested precisely as they had been arranged after he died; but the excessive swelling
and puffing out of his broad chest, contrasted shockingly with the shrinking of the body at
the pit of the stomach, by which the arch of the ribs was left as well defined as if the skin
had been drawn over a skeleton, and the distortion of the muscles of the cheeks and throat
evinced the fearful strength of the convulsions which had preceded his dissolution.  It was
evident, indeed, that throughout his whole person above the waist, the nervous system had been
utterly shattered; the arms, especially, appeared to have been awfully distorted, for when
crossed on his breast, they had to be forcibly fastened down at the wrists by a band of spun--yam
to the buttons of his jacket.  His right hand was shut, with the exception of the forefinger,
which was extended, pointing upwards; but the whole arm, from the shoulder down, had the horrible
appearance of struggling to get free from the cord which confined it.

Obed, by the time I had noticed all this, had knelt beside the shoulder of the corpse, and
I could see by the moonlight that flickered across his face as the vessel rolled in the declining
breeze, that he had pushed off his eye the uncouth spyglass which he had fastened over it during
the chase, so that it now stood out from the middle of his forehead like a stunted horn; but,
in truth, "it was not exalted," for he appeared crushed down to the very earth by the sadness
of the scene before him, and I noticed the frequent sparkle of a heavy tear as it fell from
his iron visage on the face of the dead man.  At length he untied the string that fastened
the eyeglass round his head, and taking a coarse towel from a locker, he spunged poor Paul's
face and neck with rum, and then fastened up his lower jaw with the lanyard.  Having performed
this melancholy office, the poor fellow's feelings could no longer be restrained by my presence.

"God help me, I have not now one friend in the wide world.  When I had neither home, nor food,
nor clothing, he sheltered me, and fed me, and clothed me, when a single word would have gained
him five hundred dollars, and run me up to the fore yardarm in a wreath of white smoke; but
he was true as steel; and oh that he was now doing for me what I have done for him! who would
have moaned over me,--me, who am now without wife or child, and have disgraced all my kin!
alack--a--day, alack--a--day!"--And he sobbed and wept aloud, as if his very heart would have
burst in twain.--"But I will soon follow you, Paul; I have had my warning already; I know it,
and I believe it." At this instant the dead hand of the mate burst the ligature that kept it
down across his body, and slowly rose up and remained in a beckoning attitude. I was seized
with a cold shivering from head to foot, and would have shrieked aloud, had it not been for
very shame, but Obed was unmoved.--"I know it, Paul.  I know it. I am ready, and I shall not
be long behind you."

He fastened the arm down once more, and having called a couple of hands to assist him, they
lashed up the remains of their shipmate in his hammock, with a piece of iron ballast at his
feet, and then, without more ado, handed the body up through the skylight; and I heard the
heavy splash as they cast it into the sea.  When this was done, the captain returned to the
cabin, bringing a light with him, filled and drank off a glass of strong grog.  Yet he did
not even now deign to notice me, which was by no means soothing; and I found that, since he
wouldn't speak, I must, at all hazards.

"I say, Obed, do you ever read your Bible?" He looked steadily at me with his lacklustre eyes.
"Because, if you do, you may perhaps have fallen in with some such passages as the following:--Behold
I am in your hand; but know ye for certain, that if ye put me to death, ye shall surely bring
innocent blood upon yourselves."

"It is true, Mr Cringle, I feel the truth of it here," and he laid his large bony hand on his
heart.  "Yet I do not ask you to forgive me; I don't expect that you can or will; but unless
the devil gets possession of me again--which, so sure as ever there was a demoniac in this
world, he had this afternoon when you so tempted me--I hope soon to place you in safety, either
in a friendly port, or on board of a British vessel; and then what becomes of me is of little
consequence, now since the only living soul who cared a dollar for me is at rest amongst the
coral branches at the bottom of the deep green sea."

"Why, man," rejoined I, "leave off this stuff; something has turned your brain, surely; people
must die in their beds, you now, if they be not shot, or put out of the way somehow or other;
and as for my small affair, why I forgive you, man--from my heart I forgive you; were it only
for the oddity of your scantling, mental and corporeal, I would do so; and you see I am not
much hurting--so lend me a hand, like a good fellow, to wash the wound with a little spirits--it
will stop the bleeding, and the stiffness will soon go off."

"Lieutenant Cringle, I need not tell what I know you have found out, that I am not the vulgar
Yankee smuggler, fit only to be made a butt of by you and your friends, that you no doubt at
first took me for; but who or what I am, or what I may have been, you shall never know--but
I will tell you this much"

"Devil confound the fellow!--why this is too much upon the brogue, Obed. Will you help me to
dress my wound, man, and leave off your cursed sentimental speeches, which you must have gleaned
from some old novel or another?  I'll hear it all by and by."

At this period I was a reckless young chap, with strong nerves, and my own share of that animal
courage, which generally oozes out at one's finger ends when one gets married and turned of
thirty; nevertheless I did watch with some anxiety the effect which my unceremonious interruption
was to have upon him.  I was agreeably surprised to find that he took it all in good part,
and set himself, with great alacrity and kindness even, to put me to rights, and so successfully,
that when I was washed and cleansed, and fairly coopered up, I found myself quite able to take
my place at the table; and having no fear of the College of Surgeons before my eyes, I helped
myself to a little of the needful, and in the plenitude of my heart, I asked Obed's pardon
for my ill--bred interruption.

"It was not quite the thing to cut you short in the middle of your Newgate Calendar, Obed--beg
pardon, your story I mean; no offence now, none in the world--eh?  But where the deuce, man,
got you this fine linen of Egypt?" looking at the sleeves of the shirt Obed had obliged me
with, as I sat without my coat.  "I had not dreamt you had any thing so luxurious in your kit."

I saw his brow begin to lower again, so the devil prompted me to advert, by way of changing
the subject, to a file of newspapers, which, as it turned out, might have proved to be by far
the most dangerous topic I could have hit upon.  He had laid them aside, having taken them
out of the locker when he was rummaging for the linen.  "What have we here? Kingston Chronicle,
Montego Bay Gazette, Falmouth Advertiser.  A great newsmonger you must be.  What arrivals?--let
me see;--you know I am a week from headquarters.  Let me see."

At first he made a motion as if he would have snatched them out of my hands, but speedily appeared
to give up the idea, merely murmuring "What can it signify now?"

I continued to read--"Chanticleer from a cruise--Tonnant from Barbadoes Pique from Port--au--Prince.
Oh, the next interests me the Firebrand is daily expected from Havanna; she is to come through
the gulf, round Cape Antonio, and beat up the haunts of the pirates all along the Cuba shore."
I was certain now that at the mention of this corvette mine host winced in earnest.  This made
me anxious to probe him farther.  "Why, what means this pencil mark--'Firebrand's number off
the Chesapeake was 1022?' How the deuce, my fine fellow, do you know that?"

He shook his head, but said nothing, and I went on reading the pencil memoranda--"But this
is most probably changed; she now carries a red cross in the head of her foresail, and has
very short lower masts like the Hornet."  Still he made me no answer. I proceeded--"Stop, let
me see what merchant ships are about sailing.  Loading for Liverpool, the John Gladstone, Peter
Ponderous master;" and after it, again in pencil "Only sugar: goes through the gulf.--Only
sugar," said I, still fishing; "too bulky, I suppose.--Ariel, Jenkins Whitehaven;" remark--"sugar,
coffee, and logwood. Nuestra Senora de los Dolores, to sail for Chagres on 7th proximo;" remark--"rich
cargo of bale goods, but no chance of overtaking her." "El Rayo to sail for St Jago de Cuba
on the 10th proximo;" remark--"sails fast; armed with a long gun and musketry; thirty hands;
about ten Spanish passengers; valuable cargo of dry goods; mainmast rakes well aft; new cloth
in the foresail about half--way up; will be off the Moro about the 13th.--And what is this
written in ink under the above?--The San Pedro from Chagres, and Marianita from Santa Martha,
although rich, have both got convoy.--Ah, too strong for your friends, Obed--I see, I see.--Francis
Baring, Loan French, master--an odd name, rather, for a skipper;" remark--"forty seroons of
cochineal and some specie; is to sail from Morant Bay on 5th proximo, to go through the windward
passage; may be expected off Cape St Nicolas on the 12th, or thereby." I laid down the paper
and looked him full in the face.  "Nicolas is an ominous name.  I fear the good ship Francis
Baring will find it so.  Some of the worthy saint's clerks to be fallen in with off the Mole,
eh?  Don't you think as I do, Obed?" Still silent.  "Why you seem to take great delight in
noting the intended departures and expected arrivals, my friend--merely to satisfy your curiosity,
of course; but, to come to close quarters with you, captain, I now know pretty well the object
of your visiting Jamaica now and then you are indeed no vulgar smuggler."

"It is well for you and good for myself, Mr Cringle, that something weighs heavy at my heart
at this moment, and that there is that about you which, notwithstanding your ill--timed jesting,
commands my respect, and engages my goodwill--had it not been so, you would have been alongside
of poor Paul at this moment." He leant his arms upon the table, and gazed intensely on my face
as he continued in a solemn tremulous tone--"Do you believe in auguries, Mr Cringle?  Do you
believe that coming events cast their shadows before?'"--oh, that little Wiggy Campbell had
been beside me to have seen the figure and face of the man who now quoted him!

"Yes, I do, it is part of the creed of every sailor to do so; I do believe that people have
had forewarnings of peril to themselves or their friends."

"Then what do you think of the mate beckoning me with his dead hand to follow him?"

"Why, you are raving, Obed; you saw that he had been much convulsed, and that the limb, from
the contraction of the sinews, was forcibly kept down in the position it broke loose from--the
spunyarn gave way, and of course it started up--nothing wonderful in all this although it did
at the time somewhat startle me, I confess."

"It may be so, it may be so.  I don't know," rejoined he, "but taken along with what I saw
before"--Here his voice sank into so hollow and sepulchral a tone as to be almost unintelligible.
"But there is no use in arguing on the subject.  Answer me this, Lieutenant Cringle, and truly,
so help you God at your utmost need, did the mate leave the cabin at any moment after I was
wounded by the splinter?" And he seized one of my hands convulsively with his iron paw, while
he pointed up through the open scuttle towards heaven with the other, which trembled like a
reed. The moon shone strong on the upper part of his countenance, while the yellow smoky glare
of the candle over which he bent, blending harshly and inharmoniously with the pale silver
light, fell full on his uncouth figure, and on his long scraggy bare neck and chin and cheeks,
giving altogether a most unearthly expression to his savage features, from the conflicting
tints and changing shadows cast by the flickering moonbeams streaming fitfully through the
skylight, as the vessel rolled to and fro, and by the large torchlike candle as it wavered
in the night wind. The Prince of the Powers of the Air might have sat for his picture by proxy.
It was just such a face as one has dreamed of after a hot supper and cold ale, when the whisky
had been forgotten--horrible, changing, vague, glimmering, and undefined; and as if something
was still wanting to complete the utter frightfulness of his aspect, the splinter wound in
his head burst out afresh from his violent agitation, and streamed down in heavy drops from
his forehead, falling warm on my hand.  I was much shaken at being adjured in this tremendous
way, with the hot blood glewing our hands together, but I returned his grasp as steadily as
I could, while I replied, with all the composure he had left me, and that would not have quite
filled a Winchester bushel.

"He never left my side from the time he offered to take your place after you had been wounded."

He fell back against the locker as if he had been shot through the heart.  His grasp relaxed,
he drew his breath very hard, and I thought he had fainted.

"Then it was not him that stood by me; I thought it might have been him, but I was a fool,
it was impossible."

He made a desperate effort to recover his composure, and succeeded.

"And, pray, Master Obediah," quoth I, "what did you see?"

He answered me sharply--"Never mind, never mind--here, Potomac, lend us a hand to sling a cot
for this gentleman; there now, see the lanyard is sound, and the lacing all tight and snug--now
put that mattrass into it, and there is linen in the chest."

In a trice my couch was rigged, all comfortable, snow--white linen, nice pillow, soft mattrass,
&c. and Obed, filling me another tumbler, helped himself also; he then drank to my health,
wished me a sound sleep, promised to call me at daylight, and as he left the cabin he said,
"Mr Cringle, had it been my object to have injured you, I would not have waited until now.
You are quite safe so far as depends on me, so take your rest--good night, once more."

I tumbled into bed, and never once opened my eyes until Obed called me at daylight, that is,
at five in the morning, according to his promise.

By this time we were well in with the Cuba shore; the land might be two miles from us, as we
could see the white surf.  Out at sea, although all around was clear as crystal, there was
nothing to be seen of the Gleam or Firebrand, but there were ten or twelve fishing canoes,
each manned with from four to six hands, close aboard of us;--we seemed to have got becalmed
in the middle of a small fleet of them.  The nearest to us hailed in Spanish, in a very friendly
way.

"Como estamos Capitan, que hay de nuevo; hay algo de bueno, para los pobres Pescadores?" and
the fellow who had spoken laughed loudly.

The Captain desired him to come on board, and then drew him aside, conversing earnestly with
him.  The Spanish fisherman was a very powerful man; he was equipped in a blue cotton shirt,
Osnaburg trowsers, sandals of untanned bullock's hide, a straw hat, and wore the eternal greasy
red sash and long knife.  He was a bold, daring looking fellow, and frequently looked frowningly
on me, and shook his head impatiently, while the Captain, as it seemed, was explaining to him
who I was. Just in this nick of time my friend Potomac handed up my uniform coat, (I had previously
been performing my ablutions on deck in my shirt and trowsers,) which I put on, swab and all,
thinking no harm.  But there must have been mighty great offence nevertheless, for the fisherman,
in a twinkling, casting a fierce look at me, jumped overboard like a feather, clearing the
rail like a flying fish, and swam to his canoe that had shoved off a few paces.

When he got on board he stood up and shook his clenched fist at Obed, shouting, "Picaro, traidor,
Ingleses hay abordo, quieres enganarnos!" He then held up the blade of his paddle, a signal
which all the canoes answered in a moment in the same manner, and then pulled towards the land,
from whence a felucca, invisible until that moment, now swept out, as if she had floated up
to the surface by magic, for I could see neither creek nor indentation on the shore, nor the
smallest symptom of any entrance to a port or cove.  For a few minutes the canoes clustered
round this necromantic craft, and I could notice that two or three hands from each of them
jumped on board; they then paddled off in a string, and vanished one by one amongst the mangrove
bushes as suddenly as the felucca had appeared.  All this puzzled me exceedingly I looked at
Obed he was evidently sorely perplexed.

"I had thought to have put you on board a British vessel before this, or failing that, to have
run down, and landed you at St Jago, Mr Cringle, as I promised; but you see I am prevented
by these honest men there. Get below, and as you value your life, and, I may say, mine, keep
your temper, and be civil."

I did as he suggested but peeped out of the cabin skylight to see what was going on, notwithstanding.
The felucca was armed with a heavy carronade on a pivot, and as full of men as she could hold,
fierce, half naked, savage looking fellows,--she swept rapidly up to us, and closing on our
larboard quarter, threw about five--and--twenty of her genteel young people on board, who immediately
secured the crew, and seized Obed.  However, they, that is, the common sailors, seemed to have
no great stomach for the job, and had it not been for the fellow I had frightened overboard,
I don't think one of them would have touched him. Obed bore all this with great equanimity.

"Why, Francisco," he said, to this personage, in good Spanish, "why, what madness is this?
your suspicions are groundless; it is as I tell you, he is my prisoner, and whatever he may
have been to me, he can be no spy on you."

"Cuchillo entonces," was the savage reply.

"No, no," persisted Obediah, "get cool, man, get cool; I am pledged that no harm shall come
to him; and farther I have promised to put him ashore at St Jago, and I will be as good as
my word."

"You can't if you would," rejoined Francisco; "the Snake is at anchor under the Moro."

"Then he must go with us."

"We shall see as to that," said the other; then raising his voice he shouted to his ragamuffins,
"Comrades, we are betrayed; there is an English officer on board, who can be nothing but a
spy; follow me!"

And he dashed down the companion ladder, knife in hand, while I sprung through the small scuttle,
like a rat out of one hole when a ferret is put in at the other, and crept as close to Obed
as I could; Francisco when he missed me, came on deck again.  The Captain had now seized a
cutlass in one hand, and held a cocked pistol in the other.  It appeared he had greater control,
the nature of which I now began to comprehend, over the felucca's people, than Francisco bargained
for, as the moment the latter went below, they released him, and went forward in a body. My
persecutor again advanced close up to me, seized me by the collar with one hand, and tried
to drag me forward, brandishing his naked knife aloft in the other.

Obed promptly caught his sword--arm--"Francisco," he exclaimed, still in Spanish, "fool, madman,
let go your hold! let go, or by the Heaven above us, and the hell we are both hastening to,
I will strike you dead!"

The man paused, and looked round to his own people, and seeing one or two encouraging glances
and gestures amongst them, he again attempted to drag me away from my hold on the tafferel.
Something flashed in the sun, and the man fell! his left arm, the hand of which still clutched
my throat, while mine grasped its wrist, had been shred from his body by Obed's cutlass, like
a twig; and, oh God, my blood curdles to my heart even now when I think of it! the dead fingers
kept the grasp sufficiently long to allow the arm to fall heavily against my side, where it
hung for some seconds, until the muscles relaxed and it dropped on the deck.  The instant that
Obed struck the blow, he caught hold of my hand, threw away his cutlass, and advanced towards
the group of the felucca's men, pistol in hand.

"Am I not your captain, ye cowards--have I ever deceived you yet--have I ever flinched from
heading you where the danger was greatest--have you not all that I am worth in your hands,
and will you murder me now?"

"Viva, el noble capitan, viva!"

And the tide turned as rapidly in our favour as it had lately ebbed against us.

"As for that scoundrel, he has got no more than he deserves," said he, turning to where Francisco
lay, bleeding like a carcass in the shambles; "but tie up his arm some of ye, I would be sorry
he bled to death."

It was unavailing, the large arteries had emptied his whole lifeblood he had already gone to
his account.

This most miserable transaction, with all its concomitant horrors, to my astonishment, did
not seem to make much impression on Obed, who now, turning to me, said, with perfect composure,--"You
have there another melancholy voucher for my sincerity," pointing to the body; "but time presses,
and you must now submit to be blindfolded, and that without further explanation at present."

I did so with the best grace I could, and was led below, where two beauties, with loaded pistols,
and a drawn knife each, obliged me with their society, one seated on each side of me on the
small locker, like two deputy butchers ready to operate on an unfortunate veal.  It had now
fallen dead calm, and, from what I heard, I conjectured that the felucca was sweeping in towards
the land with us in tow, for the sound of the surf grew louder and louder.  By and by we seemed
to slide beyond the long smooth swell into broken water, for the little vessel pitched sharp
and suddenly, and again all was still, and we seemed to have sailed into some landlocked cove.
From the loud echo of the voices on deck, I judged that we were in a narrow canal, the banks
of which were reflecting the sound; presently this ceased, and although we skimmed along as
motionless as before, I no longer heard the splash of the felucca's sweeps; the roar of the
sea gradually died away, until it sounded like distant thunder, and I thought we touched the
ground now and then, although slightly.  All at once the Spanish part of the crew, for we still
had a number of the felucca's people with us, sang out "Palanca," and we began to pole along
a narrow marshy lagoon, coming so near the shore occasionally, that our sides were brushed
by the branches of the mangrove bushes.  Again the channel seemed to widen, and I could hear
the felucca once more ply her sweeps.  In about ten minutes after this the anchor was let go,
and for a quarter of an hour, nothing was heard on deck but the bustle of the people furling
sails, coiling down the ropes, and getting every thing in order, as is usual in coming into
port.  It was evident that several boats had boarded us soon after we anchored, as I could
make out part of the greetings between the strangers and Obed, in which my own name recurred
more than once.  In a little while all was still again, and Obed called down the companion
to my guards, that I might come on deck,--a boon I was not long in availing myself of.

We were anchored nearly in the centre of a shallow swampy lagoon, about a mile across, as near
as I could judge; two very large schooners, heavily armed, were moored ahead of us, one on
each bow, and another rather smaller lay close under our stern; they all had sails bent, and
every thing apparently in high order, and were full of men.  The shore, to the distance of
a bow--shot from the water all around us, was low, marshy, and covered with an impervious jungle
of thick strong reeds and wild canes, with here and there a thicket of mangroves; a little
farther off, the land swelled into lofty hills, covered to the very summit with heavy timber,
but every thing had a moist, green, steamy appearance, as if it had been the region of perpetual
rain.  "Lots of yellow fever here," thought I, as the heavy rank smell of decayed vegetable
matter came off on the faint sickly breeze, and the sluggish fog banks crept along the dull
clay--coloured motionless surface of the tepid water. The sea view was quite shut out--I looked
all round and could discern no vestige of the entrance.  Right ahead there was about a furlong
of land cleared at the only spot which one could call a beach,--that is, a hard shore of sand
and pebbles.  Had you tried to get ashore at any other point, your fate would have been that
of the Master of Ravenswood; as fatal, that is, without the gentility; for you would have been
suffocated in black mud, in place of clean sea--sand.  There was a long shed in the centre
of this cleared spot, covered in with boards, and thatched with palm leaves; it was open below,
a sort of capstan--house, where a vast quantity of sails, anchors, cordage, and most kinds
of sea stores were stowed, carefully covered over with tarpawling.  Overhead there was a flooring
laid along the couples of the roof, the whole length of the shed, forming a loft of nearly
sixty feet long, divided by bulkheads into a variety of apartments, lit by small rude windows
in the thatch, where the crews of the vessels, I concluded, were occasionally lodged during
the time they might be under repair.  The boat was manned, and Obed took me ashore with him.

We landed near the shed I have described, beneath which we encountered about forty of the most
uncouth and ferocious--looking rascals that my eyes had ever been blessed withal; they were
of every shade, from the woolly Negro and long--haired Indian, to the sallow American and fair
Biscayan; and as they intermitted their various occupations of mending sails, fitting and stretching
rigging, splicing ropes, making spun--yam, coopering gun carriages, grinding pikes and cutlasses,
and filling cartridges, to look at me, they grinned and nodded to each other, and made sundry
signs and gestures which made me regret many a past peccadillo that in more prosperous times
I little thought on or repented of, and I internally prayed that I might be prepared to die
as became a man, for my fate appeared to be sealed.  The only ray of hope that shot into my
mind, through all this gloom, came from the respect the thieves, one and all, paid the Captain;
and, as I had reaped the benefit of assuming an outward recklessness and daring, which I really
did not at heart possess, I screwed myself up to maintain the same port still, and swaggered
along, jabbering in my broken Spanish, right and left, and jesting even with the most infamous--looking
scoundrels of the whole lot, while, God he knows, my heart was palpitating like a girl's when
she is asked to be married.  Obed led the way up a ladder into the loft, where we found several
messes at dinner; and passing through various rooms, in which a number of hammocks were slung,
we at length arrived at the eastern end, which was boarded off into an apartment eighteen or
twenty feet square, lighted by a small port--hole in the end, about ten feet from the ground.
I could see several huts from this window, built just on the edge of the high wood, where some
of the country people seemed to be moving about, and round which a large flock of pigs and
from twenty to thirty bullocks were grazing.  All beyond, as far as the eye could reach, was
one continuous forest, without any vestige of a living thing; not even a thin wreath of blue
smoke evinced the presence of a fellow--creature; I seemed to be hopelessly cut off from all
succour, and my heart again died within me.

"I am sorry to say you must consider yourself a prisoner here for a few days," said Obed.

I could only groan.

"But the moment the coast is clear, I will be as good as my word, and land you at St Jago."

I groaned again.  The man was moved.

"I would I could do so sooner," he continued; "but you see by how precarious a tenure I hold
my control over these people; therefore I must be cautious, for your sake as well as my own,
or they would make little of murdering both of us, especially as the fellow who would have
cut your throat this morning has many friends amongst them; above all, I dare not leave them
for any purpose for some days.  I must recover my seat, in which, by the necessary severity
you witnessed, I have been somewhat shaken.  So goodbye; there is cold meat in that locker,
and some claret to wash it down with.  Don't, I again warn you, venture out during the afternoon
or night.  I will be with you betimes in the morning.  So goodbye so long.  Your cot, you see,
is ready slung."

He turned to depart, when, as if recollecting himself, he stooped down, and taking hold of
a ring, he lifted up a trap door, from which there was a ladder leading down to the capstan--house.
"I had forgotten this entrance; it will be more convenient for me in my visits."

In my heart I believe he intended this as a hint that I should escape through the hole at some
quiet opportunity; and he was descending the ladder, when he stopped and looked round, greatly
mortified, as it struck me.

"I forgot to mention that a sentry has been placed, I don't know by whose orders, at the foot
of the ladder, to whom I must give orders to fire at you, if you venture to descend.  You see
how the land lies; I can't help it."

This was spoken in a low tone, then aloud--"There are books on that shelf behind the canvass
screen; if you can settle to them, they may amuse you."

He left me, and I sat down disconsolate enough. I found some Spanish books, and a volume of
Lord Byron's poetry, containing the first canto of Childe Harold, two numbers of Blackwood,
with several other English books and magazines, the names of the owners on all of them being
carefully erased.

But there was nothing else that indicated the marauding life of friend Obediah, whose apartment
I conjectured was now my prison, if I except a pretty extensive assortment of arms, pistols,
and cutlasses, and a range of massive cases, with iron clamps, which were ranged along one
side of the room.  I paid my respects to the provender and claret; the hashed chicken was particularly
good; bones rather large or so, but flesh white and delicate.  Had I known that I was dining
upon a guana, or large wood lizard, I scarcely think I would have made so hearty a meal.  Long
cork, No. 2, followed ditto, No. 1; and as the shades of evening, as poets say, began to fall
by the time I had finished it, I toppled quietly into my cot, said my prayers such as they
were, and fell asleep.

It must have been towards morning, from the damp freshness of the air that came through the
open window, when I was roused by the howling of a dog, a sound which always moves me.  I shook
myself; but before I was thoroughly awake, it ceased; it appeared to have been close under
my window.

I was turning to go to sleep again, when a female, in a small suppressed voice, sung the following
snatch of a vulgar Port Royal ditty, which I scarcely forgive myself for introducing here to
polite society.

"Young hofficer come home at night, Him give me ring and kisses; Nine months, one picaniny
white, Him white almost like missis. But missis fum my back wid switch, Him say de shild for
massa; But massa say him"

The singer broke off suddenly, as if disturbed by the approach of some one.

"Hush, hush, you old foolish--" said a man's voice, in the same low whispering tone; "you will
waken de dronken sentry dere, when we shall all be put in iron.  Hush, he will know my voice
more better."

It was now clear that some one wished to attract my attention; besides, I had a dreamy recollection
of having heard both the male and female voices before.  I listened, therefore, all alive.
The man began to sing in the same low tone.

"Newfoundland dog love him master de morest Of all de dog ever I see; Let him starve him, and
kick him, and cuff him de sorest, Difference none never makee to he."

There was a pause for a minute or two.

"It no use," the same voice continued; him either no dere, or he won't hear us."

"Stop," said the female, "stop; woman head good for someting. I know who he shall hear.--Here,
good dog, sing psalm; good dog, sing psalm,' and thereupon a long loud melancholy howl rose
wailing through the night air.

"If that be not my dear old dog Sneezer, it is a deuced good imitation of him," thought I.

The woman again spoke--"Yowl leetle piece more, good dog," and the howl was repeated.

I was now certain.  By this time I had risen, and stood at the open window; but it was too
dark to see any thing distinctly below. I could barely distinguish two dark figures, and what
I concluded was the dog sitting on end between them.

"Who are you?" "What do you want with me?"

"Speak softly, massa, speak softly, or the sentry may hear us, for all de rum I give him."

Here the dog recognised me, and nearly spoiled sport altogether; indeed it might have cost
us our lives, for he began to bark and frisk about, and to leap violently against the end of
the capstan--house, in vain endeavours to reach the window. . "Down, Sneezer, down, sir; you
used to be a dog of some sense; down."

But Sneezer's joy had capsized his discretion, and the sound of my voice pronouncing his name
drove him mad altogether, and he bounded against the end of the shed, like a battering--ram.

"Stop, man, stop," and I held down the bight of my neckcloth, with an end in each hand.  He
retired, took a noble run, and in a trice hooked his forepaws in the handkerchief, and I hauled
him in at the window. "Now, Sneezer, down with you, sir, down with you, or your rampaging will
get all our throats cut." He cowered at my feet, and was still as a lamb from that moment.
I stepped to the window.  "Now, who are you, and what do you want?" said I.

"Ah, massa, you no know me?"

"How the devil should I? Don't you see it is as dark as pitch?"

"Well, massa, I will tell you; it is me, massa."

"I make no great doubt of that; but who may you be?"

"Lord, you are de foolis person now; make me talk to him," said the female.  "Massa, never
mind he, dat stupid fellow is my husband, and surely massa know me?"

"Now, my very worthy friends, I think you want to make yourselves known to me; and if so, pray
have the goodness to tell me your names, that is, if I can in any way serve you."

"To be sure you can, massa; for dat purpose I come here."

The woman hooked the word out of his mouth.  "Yes, massa, you must know me is Nancy, and dat
old stupid is my husband Peter Mangrove, him who" here Peter chimed in--"Yes, massa, Peter
Mangrove is de person you have de honour to address, and"--here he lowered his voice still
more, although the whole dialogue from the commencement had been conducted in no higher tone
than a loud whisper--"we have secured one big large canoe, near de mout of dis dam hole, which,
wid your help, I tink we shall be able to launch troo de surf; and once in smoot water, den
no fear but we shall run down de coast safely before de wind till we reach. St Jago."

My heart jumped against my ribs.  Here's an unexpected chance, thought I. "But, Peter, how
in the name of mumbo jumbo, came you here?"

"Why, massa, you do forget a leetle, dat I am a Creole negro, and not a naked tatooed African,
whose exploits, dat is de wonderful ting him never do in him's own country, him get embroidered
and pinked in gunpowder on him breach; beside, I am a Christian gentleman like youshef; so
d--n mumbo jumbo, Massa Cringle."

I saw where I had erred.  "So say I, Peter, d--n mumbo jumbo particularly; but how came you
here, man? tell me that."

"Why, massa, I was out in de pilot boat schooner, wid my wife here, and five more hands, waiting
for de outward bound, finking no harm, when dem piratical rascal catch we, and carry us off.
Yankee privateer bad enough; but who ever hear of pilot being carry off? blasphemy dat--carry
off pilot!  Who ever dream of such a ting? every shivilized peoples respect pilot--carry off
pilot!--oh Lord" and he groaned in spirit for several seconds.

"And the dog?" enquired I.

"Oh, massa, I could not leave him at home; and since you was good enough to board him wid us,
he has messed wid us, ay and slept wid us; and when we started last, although he showed some
dislike at going on board, I had only to say, Sneezer, we go look for you master and he make
such a bound, dat he capsize my old woman dere, heel, over head; oh dear, what display, Nancy,
you was exhibit!"

"Hold your tongue, Peter; you hab no decency, you old willain."

"Well, but, Peter, speak out; when are we to make the attempt? where are the rest of your crew?"

"Oh dear! oh dear! dat is de worstest; oh dear!" and he began to cry and sob like the veriest
child.  "Oh, massa,"--after he had somewhat recovered himself;--"Oh, massa, dese people debits.
Why, de make all de oder on board walk de plank, wid two ten pound shot, one at each foot.
Oh, if you had seen de clear shining blue skin, as de became leetle and leetle, and more leetler,
down far in de clear green sea!  Oh dear! oh dear!  Only to tink dat each wavering black spot
was fellow--creature like one--shef, wid de heart's blood warm in his bosom at de very instant
of time we lost sight of him for ever!"

"God bless me," said I; "and how did you escape, and the black dog, and the black--ahem--beg
pardon--your wife I mean; how were you spared?"

"Ah, massa! I can't say; but bad as de were, de seemed to have a liking for brute beasts, so
dem save Sneezer, and my wife, and myshef; we were de only quadrupeds saved out of de whole
crew Oh dear!  Oh dear!"

"Well, well; I know enough now. I will spare you the pain of any farther recital, Peter; so
tell me what I am to do."

"Stop, massa, till I see if de sentry be still sound. I know de fellow, he was one on dem;
let me see"--and I heard him through the loose flooring boards walk to the foot of the trap
ladder leading up to my berth.  The soliloquy that followed was very curious of its kind. 
The negro had excited himself by a recapitulation of the cruelties exercised on his unfortunate
shipmates, and the unwarrantable caption of himself and rib, a deed that in the nautical calendar
would rank in atrocity with the murder of a herald or the bearer of a flag of truce.  He kept
murmuring to himself, as he groped about in the dark for the sentry "Catch pilot! who ever
hear of such a ting?  I suppose dem would have pull down light--house, if dere had been any
for pull. Where is dis sentry rascal?--him surely no sober yet?"

The sentry had fallen asleep as he leant back on the ladder, and had gradually slid down into
a sitting position, with his head leaning against one of the steps, as he reclined with his
back towards it, thus exposing his throat and neck to the groping paw of the black pilot.

"Ah--here him is, snoring heavy as my Nancy--well, dronk still; no fear of him overhearing
we--nice position him lie in--quite convenient--could cut his troat now--slice him like a pumpkin--de
debil is surely busy wid me, Peter. I find de very clasp--knife in my starboard pocket beginning
to open of himshef."

I tapped on the floor with my foot.

"Ah, tank you, Massa Tom--de debil nearly get we all in a scrape just now.  However, I see
him is quite sound--de sentry dat is, for de oder never sleep, you know." He had again come
under the window.  "Now, Lieutenant, in two word, to--morrow night at two bells, in de middle
watch, I will be here, and we shall make a start of it; will you venture, sir?"

"Will I?--to be sure I will; but why not now, Peter? why not now?"

"Ah, massa, you no smell de daylight; near daybreak already, sir.  Can't make try dis night,
but to--morrow night I shall be here punctual."

"Very well, but the dog, man?  If he be found in my quarters, we shall be blown, and I scarcely
think he will leave me."

"Garamighty! true enough, massa; what is to be done?  De people know de dog was catch wid me,
and if he be found wid you, den de will sospect we communication togidder.  What is to be done?"

I was myself not a little perplexed, when Nancy whispered, "De dog have more sense den many
Christian person.  Tell him he must go wid us dis one night, no tell him dis night, else him
won't; say dis one night, and dat if him don't, we shall all be deaded; try him, massa."

I had benefited by more extraordinary hints before now, although, well as I knew the sagacity
of the poor brute, I could not venture to hope it would come up to the expectations of Mrs
Mangrove.  But I'll try. "Here, Sneezer, here, my boy; you must go home with Peter tonight,
or we shall all get into a deuced mess; so here, my boy, here is the bight of the handkerchief
again, and through the window you must go; come, Sneezer, come."

To my great joy and surprise, the poor dumb beast rose from where he had coiled himself at
my feet, and after having actually embraced me, by putting his forepaws on my shoulders, as
he stood on his hind legs, and licked my face from ear to ear, uttering a low, fondling, nuzzling
sort of whine, like a nurse caressing a child, he at once leapt on the window sill, put his
forepaws through the handkerchief, and was dropped to the ground again. I could immediately
perceive the two dark figures of the pilot and his wife, followed by the dog, glide away as
noiselessly as if they had been spirits of the night, until they were lost under the shade
of the thick jungle.

I turned in, and--what will not youth and fatigue do?--I fell once more fast asleep, and never
opened my eyes until Obed shook me in my cot about eight o'clock in the morning.

"Good morning, Lieutenant. I have sent up your breakfast, but you don't seem inclined to eat it."

"Don't you believe it, my dear Obed. I have been sound asleep till this moment; only stop till
I have slipped on my--those shoes, if you please thank you--waistcoat--that will do.  Now--coffee,
fish, yams, and plantains, and biscuit, white as snow, and short as--and eggs and zounds! claret
to finish with?--Why, Obed, you surely don't desire that I should enjoy all these delicacies
in solitary blessedness?"

"Why, I intend to breakfast with you, if my society be not disagreeable."

"Disagreeable!  Not in the least, quite the contrary.  That black grouper looks remarkably
beautiful.  Another piece of yam, if you please.--Shall I fill you a cup of coffee, Obed? 
For my own part, I always stow the ground tier of my cargo dry, and then take a topdressing.
Write this down as an approved axiom with all thorough breakfast eaters.  Why, man, you are
off your feed; what are you turning up your ear for, in that incomprehensible fashion, like
a duck in thunder?  A little of the claret--thank you.  The very best butter I have ever eaten
out of Ireland--now, some of that avocado pear--and as for biscuit, Leman never came up to
it. I say, man,--hillo, where are you?--rouse ye out of your brown study, man."

"Did you hear that, Mr Cringle?"

"Hear what?--I heard nothing," rejoined I; "but hand me over that land crab.--Thank you, and
you may send the spawl of that creeping thing along with it; that guana. I had a dislike to
eating a lizard at first, but I have got over it somehow;--and a  slice of ham, a small taste
of the unclean beast, Obed--peach--fed, I'll warrant."

There was a pause.  The report of a great gun came booming along, reverberated from side to
side of the lagoon, the echoes growing shorter and shorter, and weaker and weaker, until they
growled themselves asleep in a hollow rumble like distant thunder.

"Ha, ha!  Dick Casket for a thousand!  Old Blowhard has stuck in your skirts, Master Obed--but
Lord help me, man! let us finish our breakfast; he won't be here this half hour."

I expected to see mine host's forehead lowering like a thunder cloud from my ill--timed funning;
but to my surprise, his countenance exhibited more amenity than I thought had been in the nature
of the beast, as he replied,--

"Why, lieutenant, the felucca put to sea last night, to keep a bright look--out at the mouth
of our cove here. I suppose that is him overhauling some vessel."

"It may be so;--hush! there's another gun--Two!"

Obed changed countenance at the double report.

"I say, Obed, the felucca did not carry more than one gun when I saw her, and she has had no
time to load and fire again."

He did not answer a word, but continued, with a piece of guana on the end of, his fork in one
hand and a cup of coffee in the other, as if he had been touched by the wand of a magician.
Presently we heard one or two dropping shots, quickly thickening into a rattle of musketry.
He threw down his food, picked up his hat, and trundled down stairs, as if the devil had kicked
him.  "Pedro, que hay?" I could hear him say to some one below, who appeared to have arrived
in great haste, for he gasped for breath.

"Aqui viene la feluca," answered Pedro; "perseguido por dos Lanchas Canoneras llenas de Gente."

"Abordo entonces, abordo todo el mundo; arma arma, aqui vienen los Engleses; arma, arma!"

And all from that instant was a regular hillabaloo.  The drums on board the schooners beat
to quarters, a great bell, formerly the ornament of some goodly ship, no doubt, which had been
slung in the fork of a tree, clanged away at a furious rate, the crews were hurrying to and
fro, shouting to each other in Creole Spanish, and Yankee English, while every cannon--shot
from the felucca or the boat guns came louder and louder, and the small arms peppered away
sharper and sharper.  The shouts of the men engaged, both friends and foes, were now heard,
and I could hear Obed's voice on board the largest schooner, which lay full in view from my
window, giving orders, not only to his own crew, but to those of the others. I heard him distinctly
sing out, after ordering them to haul upon the spring on his cable, "Now, men, I need not tell
you to fight bravely, for if you are taken every devil of you will be hanged, so hoist away
the signal," and a small black ball flew up through the rigging, until it reached the main
topgallant--masthead of the schooner, where it hung a moment, and in the next blew out in a
large black swallow--tailed flag, like a commodore's broad pennant.

"Now," shrieked he, "let me see who dares give in with this voucher for his honesty flying
aloft!" I twisted and craned myself out of the window, to get a view of what--was going on
elsewhere; however, I could see nothing but Obed's large schooner from it, all the other craft
were out of the range of my eye, being hid by the projecting roof of the shed.  The noise continued--the
shouting rose higher than ever--the other schooners opened their fire, both cannon and musketry;
and from the increasing vehemence of the Spanish exclamations, and the cheering on board Obed's
vessels, I concluded the attacking party were having the worst of it.  My dog Sneezer now came
jumping and scrambling up the trap stair, his paws slipping between the bars at every step,
his mouth wide open, and his tongue hanging out, while he barked, and yelled, and gasped to
get at me, as if his life depended on it.  After him I could see the round woolly pate of Peter
Mangrove, Esquire, as excited apparently as the dog, and as anxious to get up; but they got
jammed together in the small hatch, and stuck there, man and beast.  At length Peter spoke--

"Now, sir, now!  Nancy has run on before to the beach wid two paddles; now for it, now for it."

Down trundled master, and dog, and pilot.  By this time there was no one in the lower part
of the shed, which was full of smoke, while the infernal tumult on the water still raged as
furiously as ever, the shot of all sorts and sizes hissing, and splashing, and ricochetting
along the smooth surface of the harbour, as if there had been a sleet of musket and cannonballs
and grape.  Peter struck out at the top of his speed, Sneezer and I followed: we soon reached
the jungle, dashed through a path that had been recently cleared with a cutlass or billhook,
for the twigs were freshly shred, and in about ten minutes reached the high wood.  However,
no rest for the wicked, although the row seemed lessening now.

"Some one has got the worst of it," said I.

"Never mind, massa," quoth Peter, "or we shan't get de betterest ourshef."

And away we galloped again, until I had scarcely a rag an inch square on my back, or anywhere
else, and my skin was tom in pieces by the prickly bushes and spear grass.  The sound of firing
now ceased entirely, although there was still loud shouting now and then.

"Push on, massa--dem will soon miss we."

"True enough, Peter--but what is that?" as we came to a bundle of clouts walloping about in
the morass.

"De debil it must be, I tink," said the pilot.  "No, my Nancy it is, sticking in the mud up
to her waist; what shall us do? you fink, massa, we hab time for can stop to pick she out?"

"Heaven have mercy, Peter--yes, unquestionably."

"Well, massa, you know best."

So we tugged at the sable heroine, and first one leg came home out of the tenacious clay, with
a plop, then the other was drawn out of the quagmire.  We then relieved her of the paddles,
and each taking hold of one of the poor half--dead creature's hands, we succeeded in getting
down to the beach, about half a mile to leeward of the entrance to the cove.  We found the
canoe there, plumped Nancy stem foremost into the bottom of it for ballast, gathered all our
remaining energies for a grand shove, and ran her like lightning into the surf, till the water
flashed over and over us, reaching to our necks.  Next moment we were both swimming, and the
canoe, although full of water, beyond the surf, rising and falling on the long swell.  We scrambled
on board, set Nancy to bale with Peter's hat, seized our paddles, and skulled away like fury
for ten minutes right out to sea, without looking once about us, until a musket--shot whistled
over our heads, then another, and a third; and I had just time to hold up a white handkerchief,
to prevent a whole platoon being let drive at us from the deck of his Britannic Majesty's schooner
Gleam, lying--to about a cable's length to windward of us, with the Firebrand a mile astern
of her out at sea.  In five minutes we got on board of the former.

"Mercy on me, Tom Cringle, and is this the way we are to meet again?" said old Dick Gasket,
as he held out his large, bony, sunburnt hand to me.  "You have led me a nice dance, in a vain
attempt to redeem you from bondage, Tom; but I am delighted to see you although I have not
had the credit of being your deliverer--very glad to see you, Tom; but come along man, come
down with me, and let me rig you, not quite a Stultze's fit, you know, but a jury rig you shall
have, as good as Dick Casket's kit can furnish forth, for really you are in a miserable plight,
man."

"Bad enough indeed.  Mr Casket--many thanks though--bad enough, as you say; but I would that
your boats crew were in so good a plight."

Mr Gasket looked earnestly at me--"Why, I have my own misgivings, Cringle; this morning at
day--break, the Firebrand in company, we fell in with an armed felucca.  It was dead calm,
and she was out of gun shot, close in with the land.  The Firebrand immediately sent the cutter
on board full armed, with instructions to me to man the launch, and arm her with the boat--gun,
and then to send both boats to overhaul the felucca.  I did so, standing in as quickly as the
light air would take me, to support them; the felucca all this while sweeping in shore as fast
as she could pull.  But the boats were too nimble for her, and our launch had already saluted
her twice from the six pounder in the bow, when the sea--breeze came thundering down in a white
squall, that reefed our gaff--topsail in a trice, and blew away a whole lot of light sails,
like so many paper--kites.  When it cleared away, the devil a felucca, boat, or any thing else,
was to be seen.  Capsized they could not have been, for all three were not likely to have gone
that way; and as to any creek they could have run into, why we could see none.  That they had
pulled in shore, however, was our conclusion; but here have we been, the whole morning, firing
signal guns every five minutes without success."

"Did you hear no firing after the squall?" said I.

"Why, some of my people thought they did, but it was that hollow, tremulous, reverberating
kind of sound, that it might have been thunder; and the breeze blew too strong to have allowed
us to hear musketry a mile and a half to windward. I did think I saw some smoke rise, and blow
off now and then, but" "But me no buts, Master Richard Casket; Peter Mangrove here, as well
as myself, saw your people pursue the felucca into the lion's den, and I fear they have been
crushed in his jaws." I briefly related what we had seen--Casket was in great distress.

"They must have been taken, Cringle.  The fools! to allow themselves to be trepanned in this
way.  We must stand out and speak the corvette. All hands make sail!"

I could not help smiling at the grandeur of Dick's emphasis on the all, when twenty hands,
one--third of them boys, and the rest landsmen, scrambled up from below, and began to pull
and haul in no very seamanlike fashion.  He noticed it.

"A--h, Tom, I know what you are grinning at, but I fear it has been no laughing matter to my
poor boats crew--all my best hands gone, God help me!"

Presently being under the Firebrand's lee quarter, we lowered down the boat and went on board,
where, for the first time, the extreme ludicrousness of my appearance and following flashed
on me. There we were all in a bunch, the dog, Mr and Mrs Mangrove, and Thomas Cringle, gentleman,
such in appearance as I shall shortly describe them.

Old Richard Gasket, Esq., first clambered up the side and made his bow to the Hon.  Captain
Transom, who was standing near the gangway, on the snow--white deck, amidst a group of officers,
where every thing was in the most apple--pie order, himself, both in mind and apparel, the
most polished concern in the ship; while the whole crew, with the exception of the unfortunate
absentees in the cutter, were scrambling, to get a good view of us.

I have already said, that my uniform was torn to pieces; trowsers ditto; my shoes had parted
company in the quagmire; and as for hat, it was left in my cot.  I had a dirty bandage tied
round my neck, performing the twofold office of a cravat and a dressing to my wound; while
the blood from the scratches had dried into black streaks adown and across my face and paws,
and I was altogether so begrimed with mud that my mother would not have known me.  Dick made
his salaam, and then took up a position beside the sally--port, with an important face, like
a showman exhibiting wild beastesses, a regular "stir--him--up--with--a--long pole" sort of
look. I followed him "This is Lieutenant Cringle, Captain Transom."

"The devil it is!" said Transom, trying in vain to keep his gravity. "Why, I see it is--How
do you do, Mr Cringle? glad to see you."

"This is Peter Mangrove, branch--pilot," continued Casket, as Peter, bowing, tried to slide
past out of sight.

Till this instant I had not time to look at him--he was even a much queerer--looking figure
than myself.  He had been encumbered with no garment besides his trowsers when we started,
and these had been reduced, in the scramble through the brake, to a waistband and two knee
bands, from which a few shreds fluttered in the breeze, the rest of his canvass having been
entirely torn out of the bolt--ropes.  For an upper dress he had borrowed a waistcoat without
sleeves from the purser of the schooner, which hung loose and unbuttoned before, while behind,
being somewhat of the shortest, some very prominent parts of his stem frame were disclosed,
as even an apology for a shirt he had none.  Being a decent man, however, he had tied his large
straw hat round his waist, by strings fastened to the broad brims, which nearly met behind,
so that the crown covered his loins before, like a petard, while the sameness of his black
naked body was relieved by being laced with blood from numberless lacerations.

Next came the female--"This is the pilot's wife, Captain Transom," again sung out old Dick;
but decency won't let me venture on a description of poor Nancy's equipment, beyond mentioning,
that one of the Gleam's crew had given her a pair of old trowsers, which, as a sailor has no
bottom, and Nancy was not a sailor, were most ludicrously scanty at top, and devil another
rag of any kind had the poor creature on, but a handkerchief across her bosom.  There was no
standing all this; the crew forward and in the waist were all on the broad grin, while the
officers, after struggling to maintain their gravity until they were nearly suffocated, fairly
gave in, and the whole ship echoed with the most uproarious laughter; a young villain, whether
a Mid or no I could not tell, yelling out in the throng, "Hurra for Tom Cringle's Tail!"

I was fairly beginning to lose countenance, when up jumped Sneezer to my relief out of the
boat, with an old cocked hat lashed on his head, a marine's jacket buttoned round his body,
and his coalblack muzzle bedaubed with pipe--clay, regularly monkeyfied, the momentary handiwork
of some wicked little reefers, while a small pipe sung out quietly, as if not intended to reach
the quarterdeck, although it did do so, "And here comes the last joint of Mr Cringle's Tail."
The dog began floundering and jumping about, and walloping amongst the people, most of whom
knew him, and immediately drew their attention from me and my party to himself; for away they
all bundled forward, dog and men tumbling and scrambling about like so many children, leaving
the coast clear to me and my attendants.  The absurdity of the whole exhibition had for an
instant, even under the very nose of a proverbially taught hand, led to freedoms which I had
believed impossible in a man--of--war.  However, there was too much serious matter in hand,
independently of any other consideration, to allow the merriment created by our appearance
to last long.

Captain Transom, immediately on being informed how matters stood, with seamanlike promptitude
determined to lighten the Gleam, and send her in with the boats, for the purpose of destroying
the haunt of the pirates, and recovering the men, if they were still alive; but before any
thing could be done, it came on to blow, and for a week we had great difficulty in maintaining
our position off the coast against the strength of the gale and lee current.

It was on the Sunday morning after I had escaped that it moderated sufficiently for our purpose,
when both vessels stood close in, and Peter and I were sent to reconnoitre the entrance of
the port in the gig.  Having sounded and taken the bearings of the land, we returned on board,
when the Gleam's provisions were taken out and her water started. The ballast was then shifted,
so as to bring her by the head, that she might thus draw less water by being on an even keel,
all sharp vessels of her class requiring much deeper water aft than forward; the corvette's
launch, with a I2--pound carronade fitted, was then manned and armed with thirty seamen and
marines, under the command of the second lieutenant; the jolly boat and the two quarter boats,
each with twelve men, followed in a string, under the third lieutenant, the master, and the
senior midshipman; thirty picked hands were added to the schooner's crew, and I was desired
to take the gig with six smart hands and Peter Mangrove, and to accompany the whole as pilot;
but to pull out of danger so soon as the action commenced, so as to be ready to help any disabled
boat, or to carry orders from the commanding officer.

At nine in the morning, we gave three cheers, and leaving the corvette, with barely forty hands
on board, the Gleam made sail towards the harbour's mouth, with the boats in tow; but when
we got within musket shot of the entrance, the breeze failed us, when the order of sailing
was reversed, the boats now taking the schooner in tow, preceded by your humble servant in
the gig.  We dashed safely through the small canal of blue water, which divided the surf at
the harbour's mouth, having hit it to a nicety; but when about a pistolshot from the entrance,
the channel narrowed to a muddy creek, not more than twenty yards wide, with high trees, and
thick underwood close to the water's edge.  All was silent, the sun shone clown upon us like
the concentrated rays of a burning glass, and there was no breeze to dissipate the heavy dank
mist that hovered over the surface of the unwholesome canal, nor was there any appearance of
a living thing, save and except a few startled waterfowl, and some guanoes on the trees, and
now and then an alligator, like a black log of charred wood, would roll off a slimy bank of
brown mud, with a splash into the water.

We rowed on, the schooner every now and then taking the ground, but she was always quickly
warped off again by a kedge; at length, after we had in all proceeded, it might be, about a
mile from the beach, we came to a boom of strong timber clamped with iron, stretching across
the creek. We were not unprepared for this; one of two old 32--pound carronades, which, in
anticipation of some obstruction of the sort, had been got on deck from amongst the Gleam's
ballast, and properly slung, was now made fast to the middle timber of the boom, and let go,
when the weight of it sunk it to the bottom, and we passed on.  We pulled on for about half
a mile further, when I noticed, high up on a sunny cliff, that shot boldly out into the clear
blue heavens, a small red flag suddenly run up to the top of a tall, scathed, branchless palm
tree, where it flared for a moment in the breeze like the flame of a torch, and then as suddenly
disappeared.  "Come, they are on the look--out for us I see."

The hills continued to close on us as we advanced, and that so precipitously, that we might
have been crushed to pieces had half--a dozen active fellows, without any risk to themselves,
for the trees would have screened them, simply loosened some of the fragments of rock that
impended over us, so threateningly, it seemed, as if a little finger could have sent them bounding
and thundering down the mountain side; but this either was not the game of the people we were
in search of, or Obed's spirit and energy had been crushed out of him by the heart depressing
belief that his hours were numbered, for no active obstruction was offered.

We now suddenly rounded an abrupt corner of the creek, and there we were full in front of the
schooners, who, with the felucca in advance, were lying in line of battle, with springs on
their cables.  The horrible black pennant was, in the present instance, nowhere to be seen;
indeed, why such an impolitic step as ever to have shown it at all was taken in the first attack,
I never could understand; for the force was too small to have created any serious fear of being
captured, (unless indeed it had been taken for an advanced guard, supported by a stronger,)
while it must have appeared probable to Obediah, that the loss of the two boats would in all
likelihood lead to a more powerful attempt, when, if it were successful, the damning fact of
having fought under such an infernal emblem must have ensured a pirate's death on the gibbet
to every soul who was taken, unless he had intended to have murdered all the witnesses of it.
But since proof in my person and the pilot's existed, now, if ever, was the time for mortal
resistance, and to have hoisted it, for they knew that they all fought with halters about their
necks.  They had all the Spanish flag flying except the Wave, which showed American colours,
and the felucca, which had a white flag hoisted, from which last, whenever our gig appeared,
a canoe shoved off, and pulled towards us.  The officer, if such he might be called, also carried
a white flag in his hand.  He was a daring--looking fellow, and dashed up along--side of me.
The incomprehensible folly of trying at this time of day to cloak the real character of the
vessels, puzzled me, and does so to this hour.  I have never got a clew to it, unless it was
that Obed's strong mind had given way before his superstitious fears, and others had now assumed
the right of both judging and acting for him in this his closing scene.  The pirate officer
at once recognised me, but seemed neither surprised nor disconcerted at the strength of the
force which accompanied me.  He asked me in Spanish if I commanded it; I told him I did not,
that the captain of the schooner was the senior officer.

"Then will you be good enough, to go on board with me, to interpret for me?"

"Certainly."

In half a minute we were both on the Gleam's deck, the crews of the boats that had her in tow
lying on their oars.

"You are the commander of this force?" said the Spaniard.

"I am," said old Gasket, who had figged himself out in full puff, after the manner of the ancients,
as if he had been going to church, instead of to fight; and who the hell are you?"

"I command one of these Spanish schooners, sir, which your boats so unwarrantably attacked
a week ago, although you are at peace with Spain. But even had they been enemies, they were
in a friendly port, which should have protected them."

"All very good oysters," quoth old Dick; "and pray was it an honest trick of you to cabbage
my young friend, Lieutenant Cringle there, as if you had been slavers kidnapping the Bungoes
in the Bight of Biafra, and then to fire on and murder my people when sent in to claim him?"

"As to carrying off that young gentleman, it was no affair of ours; he was brought away by
the master of that American schooner; but so far as regards firing on your boats, I believe
they fired first.  But the crews are not murdered; on the contrary, they have been well used,
and are now on board that felucca.  I am come to surrender the whole fifteen to you."

"The whole fifteen! and what have you made of the other twelve?"

"Gastados," said the fellow, with all the sangfroid in the world, "gastados, (spent or expended)
by their own folly."

"Oh, they are expended, are they? then give us the fifteen."

"Certainly, but you will in this case withdraw your force, of course"

"We shall see about that--go and send us the men." He jumped down into the canoe, and shoved
off;--whenever he reached the felucca, he struck the white flag, and hoisted the Spanish in
its stead, and by hauling on a spring, he brought her to cover the largest schooner so effectually,
that we could not fire a shot at her without going through the felucca. We could see all the
men leave this latter vessel in two canoes, and go on board one of the other craft.  There
was now no time to be lost, so I dashed at the felucca in the gig, and broke open the hatches,
where we found the captured seamen and their gallant leader, Lieutenant----, in a sorry plight,
expecting nothing but to be blown up, or instant death by shot or the knife.  We released them,
and, sending to the Gleam for ammunition and small arms, led the way in the felucca, by Mr
Gasket's orders, to the attack, the corvette's launch supporting us; while the schooner with
the other craft were scraping up as fast as they could. We made straight for the largest schooner,
which with her consorts now opened a heavy fire of grape and musketry, which we returned with
interest.  I can tell little of what took place till I found myself on the pirate's quarterdeck,
after a desperate tussle, and having driven the crew overboard, with dead and wounded men thickly
strewn about, and our fellows busy firing at their surviving antagonists, as they were trying
to gain the shore by swimming.

Although the schooner we carried was the Commodore, and commanded by Obediah in person, yet
the pirates, that is, the Spanish part of them, by no means showed the fight I expected.  While
we were approaching, no fire could be hotter, and their yells and cheers were tremendous; but
the instant we laid her along--side with the felucca, and swept her decks with a discharge
of grape from the carronade, under cover of which we boarded on the quarter, while the launch's
people scrambled up at the bows, their hearts failed, a regular panic overtook them, and they
jumped overboard, without waiting for a taste either of cutlass or boarding--pike.  The captain
himself, however, with about ten Americans, stood at bay round the long gun, which, notwithstanding
their great inferiority in point of numbers to our party, they manfully fired three several
times at us, after we had carried her aft; but we were so close that the grape came past us
like a round shot, and only killed one hand at each discharge, whereas at thirty yards farther
off, by having had room to spread, it might have made a pretty tableau of the whole party.
I hailed Obed twice to surrender, while our people, staggered by the extreme hardihood of the
small group, hung back for an instant; but he either did not hear me, or would not, for the
only reply he seemed inclined to make was by slewing round the gun so as to bring me on with
it, and the next moment a general rush was made, when the whole party was cut down, with three
exceptions, one of whom was Obed himself, who getting on the gun, made a desperate bound over
the men's heads, and jumped overboard.  He struck out gallantly, the shot pattering round him
like the first of a thunder shower, but he dived apparently unhurt, and I lost sight of him.

The other vessels having also been carried, the firing was all on our side by this time, and
I, along with the other officers, was exerting myself to stop the butchery.

"Cease firing, men; for shame, you see they no longer resist." And my voice was obeyed by all
except the fifteen we had released, who were absolutely mad with fury--perfect fiends; such
uncontrollable fierceness I had never witnessed, indeed, I had nearly cut one of them down
before I could make them knock off firing.

"Don't fire, sir," cried I to one.

"Ay, ay, sir; but that scoundrel made me wash his shirts," and he let drive at a poor devil,
who was squattering and swimming away towards the shore, and shot him through the head.

"By heavens!  I will run you through, if you fire at that man!" shouted I to another, a marine,
who was taking aim at no less a personage than friend Obed, who had risen to breathe, and was
swimming after the others, but the very last man of all.

"No, by G--? he made me wash his trowsers, sir."

He fired--the pirate stretched out his arms, turned slowly on his back, with his face towards
me.  I thought he gave me a sort of "Et tu, Brute" look, but I dare say it was fancy--his feet
began to sink, and he gradually disappeared, a few bubbles of froth and blood marking the spot
where he went down.  He had been shot dead. I will not attempt to describe my feelings at this
moment, they burned themselves in on my heart at the time, and the impression is indelible.
Whether I had or had not acted, in one sense, unjustly, by ousting myself so conspicuously
forward in the attempt to capture him, after what had passed between us, forced itself upon
my judgment. I had certainly promised that I would, in no way that I could help, be instrumental
in his destruction or seizure, provided he landed me at St Jago, or put me on board a friendly
vessel.  He did neither, so his part of the compact might be considered broken; but then it
was out of his power to have fulfilled it; besides, he not only threatened my life subsequently,
but actually wounded me; still, however, on great provocation.  But what "is writ, is writ."
He has gone to his account, pirate as he was, murderer if you will; yet I had, and still have,
a tear for his memory,--and many a time have I prayed on my bare knees that his blue agonized
dying look might be erased from my brain; but this can never be.  What he had been I never
learned; but it is my deliberate opinion, that, with a clear stage and opportunity, he would
have forced himself out from the surface of society for good or for evil.  The unfortunates
who survived him, but to expiate their crimes on the gibbet at Port Royal, said he had joined
them from a New York privateer, but they knew nothing farther of him beyond the fact, that
by his skill and desperate courage, within a month he had by common acclaim been elected captain
of the whole band.  There was a story current on board the corvette, of a small trading craft,
with a person answering his description, having been captured in the Chesapeake, by one of
the squadron, and sent to Halifax for adjudication, (the master, as in most cases of the kind,
being left on board,) which from that hour had never been heard of, neither vessel, nor prize
crew, nor captain, until two Americans were taken out of a slaver, off the Cape de Verds by
the Firebrand, about a year afterwards, after a most brave and determined attempt to escape,
both of whom were however allowed to enter, but subsequently deserted off Sandy Hook by swimming
ashore, in consequence of a pressed hand hinting that one of them, surmised to be Obed, had
been the master of the vessel above mentioned.

All resistance having ceased, the few of the pirates who escaped having scampered into the
woods, where it would have been vain to follow them, we secured our prisoners, and at the close
of a bloody day, for fatal had it been to friend and foe, the prizes were got under weigh,
and before nightfall we were all at sea, sailing in a fleet, under convoy of the corvette and
Gleam.

CHAPTER X

Vomito Prieto.

"This disease is beyond my practice."

Macbeth, Vi.59.

The second and acting third--lieutenants were on board the prizes--the purser was busy in his
vocation--the doctor ditto Indeed, he and his mates had more on their hands than they could
well manage.  The first lieutenant was engaged on deck, and the master was in his cot, suffering
from a severe contusion; so when got on board the corvette, and dived into the gunroom in search
ol some crumbs of comfort, the deuce a living soul was there to welcome me, except the gunroom
steward, who speedily produced some cold meat, and asked me if I would take a glass of swizzle.

The food I had no great fancy to, although I had not tasted a morsel since six o'clock in the
morning, and it was now eight in the evening; but the offer of the grog sounded gratefully
in mine ear, and I was about tackling to a stout rummer of the same, when a smart dandified
shaver, with gay mother--of--pearl buttons on his jacket, as thick set as peas, presented his
tallow chops at the door.

"Captain Transom desires me to say, that he will be glad of your company in the cabin, Mr Cringle."

"My compliments--I will wait on him so soon as I have had a snack.  We have had no dinner in
the gunroom to--day yet, you know, Mafame."

"Why, it was in the knowledge of that the Captain sent me, sir.  He has not had any dinner
either; but it is now on the table, and he waits for you."

I was but little in spirits, and, to say sooth, was fitter for my bed than society; but the
Captain's advances had been made with so much kindliness, that I got up, and made a strong
endeavour to rouse myself; and, having made my toilet as well as my slender means admitted,
I followed the Captain's steward into the cabin.

I started--why, I could not well tell--as the sentry at the door stood to his arms when I passed
in; and, as if I had been actually possessed by some wandering spirit, who had taken the small
liberty of using my faculties and tongue without my concurrence, I hastily asked the man if
he was an American?--He stared in great astonishment for a short space, turned his quid--and
then rapped out, as angrily as respect for a commissioned officer would let him,--"No, by--, sir!"

This startled me as much as the question I had almost unconsciously--and, I may say, involuntarily--put
to the marine had surprised him, and I made a full stop, and leant back against the door--post.
The Captain, who was walking up and down the cabin, had heard me speak, but without comprehending
the nature of my question, and now recalled me in some measure to myself, by enquiring if I
wanted any thing.  I replied, hurriedly, that I did not.

"Well, Mr Cringle, dinner is ready--so take that chair at the foot of the table, will you?"

I sat down, mechanically, as it appeared to me--for a strange swimming dizzy sort of sensation
had suddenly overtaken me, accompanied by a whoreson tingling, as Shakespeare hath it, in my
ears. I was unable to eat a morsel; but I could have drunk the ocean, had it been claret or
vin--de--grave--to both of which I helped myself as largely as good manners would allow, or
a little beyond, mayhap.  All this while the Captain was stowing his cargo with great zeal,
and tifting away at the fluids asbecame an honest sailor after so long a fast, interlarding
his operations with a civil word to me now and then, without any especial regard as to the
answer I made him, or, indeed, caring greatly whether I answered him or not.

"Sharp work you must have had, Mr Cringle--should have liked to have been with you myself.
Help yourself, before passing that bottle--zounds, man, never take a bottle by the bilge--grasp
the neck, man, at least in this fervent climate--thank you.  Pity you had not caught the captain
though. What you told me of that man very much interested me, coupled with the prevailing reports
regarding him in the ship--daring dog he must have been--can't forget how gallantly he weathered
us when we chased him."

I broke silence for the first time.  Indeed, I could scarcely have done so sooner, even had
I chosen it, for the gallant officer was rather continuous in his yam--spinning.  However,
he had nearly dined, and was leaning back, allowing the champaigne to trickle leisurely from
a glass half a yard long, which he had applied to his lips, when I said, "Well, the imagination
does sometimes play one strange tricks--I verily believe in second sight now, Captain, for
at this very instant I am regularly the fool of my senses,----but pray don't laugh at me;"
and I lay back on my chair, and pressed my hands over my shut eyes and hot burning temples,
which were now throbbing as if the arteries would have burst.

The Captain, who was evidently much surprised at my abruptness, said something hurriedly and
rather sharply in answer, but I could not for the life of me mark what it was. I opened my
eyes again, and looked towards the object that had before riveted my attention.  It was neither
more nor less than the Captain's cloak, a plain, unpretending, substantial blue garment, lined
with white, which, on coming below, he had cast carelessly down on the locker, that ran across
the after part of the cabin behind him.  It was about eighteen feet from me, and as there was
no light nearer it than the swinging lamp over the table at which we were seated, the whole
of the cabin thereabouts was thrown considerably into shade. The cape of the cloak was turned
over, showing the white lining, and was rather bundled as it were into a round heap, about
the size of a man's head.  When first I looked at it, there was a dreamy, glimmering indistinctness
about it that I could not well understand, and I would have said, had it been possible, that
the wrinkles and folds in it were beginning to be instinct with motion, to creep and crawl
as it were.  At all events, the false impression was so strong as to jar my nerves, and make
me shudder with horror.  I knew there was no such d--ting, as well as Macbeth--, but nevertheless
it was with an indescribable feeling of curiosity, dashed with awe, that I stared intently
at it, as if fascinated, while almost unwittingly I made the remark already mentioned.

I had expected that the unaccountable appearance which had excited my attention so strongly
would have vanished with the closing of my eyes; but it did not, for when I looked at it again,
the working and shifting of the folds of the cloth still continued, and even more distinctly
than before.

"Very extraordinary all this," I murmured to myself.

"Pray, Mr Cringle, be sociable, man," said the Captain; "what the deuce do you see, that you
stare over my shoulder in that way?  Were a woman now, I should tremble to look behind me,
while you were glaring aft in that wild, moonstruck sort of fashion."

"By all that is astonishing," I exclaimed in great agitation, "if the folds of the cape have
not arranged themselves into the very likeness of his dying face!  Why it is his face, and
no fanciful grouping of my heated brain.  Look there, sir--look there--I know it can't bebut
there he lies,--the very features and upper part of the body, lith and limb, as when he disappeared
beneath the water when he was shot dead."

I felt the boiling blood, that had been rushing through my system like streams of molten lead,
suddenly freeze and coagulate about my heart, impeding my respiration to a degree that I thought
I should have been suffocated. I had the feeling as if my soul was going to take wing.  It
was not fear, nor could I say I was in pain, but it was so utterly unlike any thing I had ever
experienced before, and so indescribable, that I thought to myself--"this may be death."

"Why, what a changeable rose you are, Master Cringle," said Captain Transom, good--naturedly;
"your face was like the north--west moon in a fog but a minute ago, and now it is as pale as
a lily@blue white, I declare.  Why, my man, you must be ill, and seriously too."

His voice dissipated the hideous chimera--the folds fell, and relapsed into their own shape,
and the cloak was once more a cloak, and nothing more--I drew a long breath.  "Ah, it is gone
at last, thank God!"--and then aware of the strange effect my unaccountable incoherence must
have had on the skipper, I thought to brazen it out by trying the free and easy line, which
was neither more nor less than arrant impertinence in our relative positions.  "Why, I have
been heated a little, and amusing myself with sundry vain imaginings, but allow me to take
wine with you, Captain," filling a tumbler with vinde--grave to the brim, as I spoke. "Success
to you, sir--here's to your speedy promotion--may you soon get a crack frigate; as for me I
intend to be Archbishop of Canterbury, or maid of honour to the Queen of Sheba, or something
in the heathen mythology."

I drank off the wine, although I had the greatest difficulty in steadying my trembling hand,
and carrying it to my lips; but notwithstanding my increasing giddiness, and the buzzing in
my ears, and swimming of mine eyes, I noticed the Captain's face of amazement as he exclaimed,
"The boy is either mad or drunk, by Jupiter!"

I could not stand his searching and angry look, and in turning my eye, it again fell on the
cloak, which now seemed to be stretched out at greater length, and to be altogether more voluminous
than it was before.  I was forcibly struck with this, for I was certain no one had touched it.

"By heavens! it heaves," I exclaimed, much moved--"how is this?  I never thought to have believed
such things,----it stirs again--it takes the figure of a man--as if it were a pall covering
his body.  Pray, Captain Transom, what trick is this?--Is there any thing below that cloak there?"

"What cloak do you mean?"

"Why, that blue one lying on the locker there--is there any cat or dog in the cabin?  "--and
I started on my legs.--"Captain Transom," I continued, with great vehemence, "for the love
of God tell me what is there below that cloak."

He looked surprised beyond all measure.

"Why, Mr Cringle, I cannot for the soul of me comprehend you; indeed I cannot; but, Mafame,
indulge him.  See if there be any thing below my cloak."

The servant walked to the locker, and lifted up the cape of it, and was in the act of taking
it from the locker, when I impetuously, desired the man to leave it alone.

"I can't look on him again," said I; while the faintishness increased, so that I could hardly
speak.  "Don't move the covering from his face, for God's sake--don't remove it," and I lay
back in my chair, screening my eyes from the lamp with my hands, and shuddering with an icy
chill from head to foot.

The Captain, who had hitherto maintained the well--bred, patronizing, although somewhat distant,
air of a superior officer to an inferior who was his guest, addressed me now in an altered
tone, and with a brotherly kindness.

"Mr Cringle, I have some knowledge of you, and I know many of your friends; so I must take
the liberty of an old acquaintance with you. This day's work has been a severe one, and your
share in it, especially after your past fatigues, has been very trying, and as I will report
it, I hope it may clap a good spoke in your wheel; but you are overheated, and have been over--excited;
fatigue has broken you down, and I must really request you will take something warm, and turn
in.--Here, Mafame, get the carpenter's mate to secure that cleat on the weather--side there,
and sling my spare cot for Mr Cringle. You will be cooler here than in the gunroom."

I heard his words without comprehending their meaning.  I sat and stared at him, quite conscious,
all the time, of the extreme impropriety, not to say indecency, of my conduct; but there was
a spell on me; I tried to speak, but could not; and, believing that I was either possessed
by some dumb evil, or struck with palsy, I rose up, bowed to Captain Transom, and straightway
hied me on deck.

I could hear him say to his servant, as I was going up the ladder, "Look after that young gentleman,
Mafame, and send Isaac to the doctor, and bid him come here now;" and then, in a commiserating
tone--"Poor young fellow, what a pity!"

When I got on deck all was quiet.  The cool fresh air had an instantaneous effect on my shattered
nerves, the violent throbbing in my head ceased, and I began to hug myself with the notion
that my distemper, whatever it might have been, had beaten a retreat.

Suddenly I felt so collected and comfortable, as to be quite alive to the loveliness of the
scene.  It was a beautiful moonlight night; such a night as is nowhere to be seen without the
Tropics, and not often within them.  There was just breeze enough to set the sail to sleep,
although not so strong as to prevent their giving a low murmuring flap now and then, when the
corvette rolled a little heavier than usual on the long swell.  There was not a cloud to be
seen in the sky, not even a stray shred of thin fleecy gauzelike vapour, to mark the direction
of the upper current of the air, by its course across the moon's disk, which was now at the
full, and about half--way up her track in the liquid heavens.

The small twinkling lights from millions of lesser stars, in that part of the firmament where
she hung, round as a silver pot--lid shield I mean, were swamped in the flood of greenish--white
radiance shed by her, and it was only a few of the first magnitude, with a planet here and
there, that were visible to the naked eye, in the neighbourhood of her crystal bright globe;
but the clear depth, and dark translucent purity of the profound, when the eye tried to pierce
into it at the zenith, where the stars once more shone and sparkled thick and brightly, beyond
the merging influence of the pale cold orb, no man can describe now----one could, once--but
rest his soul, he is dead and then to look forth far into the night, across the dark ridge
of many a heaving swell of living water--but, "Thomas Cringle, ahoy where the devil are you
cruising to" So, to come back to my story. I went aft, and mounted the small poop, and looked
towards the aforesaid moon, a glorious resplendent tropical moon, and not the paper lantern
affair hanging in an atmosphere of fog and smoke, about which your blear--eyed poets haven't
so much.  By the by, these gentry are fond of singing of the blessed sun--were they sailors
they would bless the moon also, and be--to them, in place of writing much wearisome poetry
regarding her blighting propensities.  But I have lost the end of my yarn once more, in the
strands of these parentheses. Lord, what a word to pronounce in the plural!--I can no more
get out now, than a girl's silk worm from the innermost of a nest of pill boxes, where, to
ride the simile to death at once, I have warped the thread of my story so round and round me,
that I can't for the life of me unravel it.  Very odd all this.  Since I have recovered of
this fever, every thing is slack about me; I can't set up the shrouds and backstays of my mind,
not to speak of bobstays, if I should die for it.  The running rigging is all right enough,
and the canvass is there; but I either can't set it, or when I do, I find I have too little
ballast, or I get involved amongst shoals, and white water, and breakers--don't you hear them
roar?--which I cannot weather, and crooked channels, under some lee--shore, through which I
cannot scrape clear.  So down must go the anchor, as at present, and there--there goes the
chain cable, rushing and rumbling through the hausehole.  But I suppose it will be all right
by and by, as I get stronger.

"But rouse thee, Thomas!  Where is this end of your yarn, that you are blameying about?"

"Avast heaving, you swab you--avast--if you had as much calomel in your corpus as I have at
this present speaking--why you would be a lad of more mettle than I take you for, that is all.--You
would have about as much quicksilver in your stomach, as I have in my purse, and all my silver
has been quick, ever since I remember, like the jests of the gravedigger in Hamlett--but, as
you say, where the devil is the end of this yarn?"

Ah, here it is! so off we go again--and looked forward towards the rising moon, whose shining
wake of glow--worm--coloured light, sparkling in the small waves, that danced in the gentle
wind on the heaving bosom of the dark blue sea, was right a--head of us, like a river of quicksilver
with its course diminished in the distance to a point, flowing towards us, from the extreme
verge of the horizon, through a rolling sea of ink, with the waters of which for a time it
disdained to blend.  Concentrated, and shining like polished silver afar off--intense and sparkling
as it streamed down nearer, but becoming less and less brilliant as it Widened in its approach
to us, until, like the stream of the great Estuary of the Magdalena, losing itself in the salt
waste of waters, it gradually melted beneath us and around us into the darkness.

I looked aloft--every object appeared sharply cut out against the dark firmament, and the swaying
of the mast--heads to and fro, as the vessel rolled, was so steady and slow, that they seemed
stationary, while it was the moon and stars which appeared to vibrate and swing from side to
side, high over head, like the vacillation of the clouds in a theatre, when the scene is first
let down.

The masts, and yards, and standing and running rigging, looked like black pillars, and bars,
and wires of iron, reared against the sky, by some mighty spirit of the night; and the sails,
as the moon shone dimly through them, were as dark as if they had been tarpawlings.  But when
I walked forward and looked aft, what a beauteous change!  Now each mast, with its gently swelling
canvass, the higher sails decreasing in size, until they tapered away nearly to a point, though
topsail, topgallant sail, royal and skysails, showed like towers of snow, and the cordage like
silver threads, while each dark spar seemed to be of ebony, fished with ivory, as a flood of
cold, pale, mild light streamed from the beauteous planet over the whole stupendous machine,
lighting up the sand white decks, on which the shadows of the men, and of every object that
intercepted the moonbeams, were cast as strongly as if the planks had been inlaid with jet.

There was nothing moving about the decks.  The lookouts, aft, and at the gangways, sat or stood
like statues half bronze, half alabaster.  The old quartermaster, who was cunning the ship,
and had perched himself on a carronade, with his arm leaning on the weather nettings, was equally
motionless.  The watch had all disappeared forward, or were stowed out of sight under the lee
of the boats; the first Lieutenant, as if captivated by the serenity of the scene, was leaning
with folded arms on the weather gangway, looking abroad upon the ocean, and whistling now and
then either for a wind, or for want of thought.  The only being who showed sign of life was
the man at the wheel, and he scarcely moved, except now and then to give her a spoke or two,
when the cheep of the tiller--rope, running through the well--greased leading blocks, would
grate on the ear as a sound of some importance; while in daylight, in the ordinary bustle of
the ship, no one could say he ever heard it.

Three bells!--"Keep a bright look--out there," sung out the Lieutenant.

"Ay, ay, sir," from the four look--out men, in a volley.

Then from the weather--gangway, "All's well" rose shrill into the night air.

The watchword was echoed by the man on the forecastle, re--echoed by the lee--gangway look--out,
and ending with the response of the man on the poop.  My dream was dissipated--and so was the
first lieutenant's, who had but little poetry in his composition, honest man.

"Fine night, Mr Cringle.  Look aloft, how beautifully set the sails are; that mizzen--topsail
is well cut, eh?  Sits well, don't it?  But confound the lubbers!  Boatswain's mate, call the
watch."

Whi--whew, whi--whew, chirrup, chip, chip--the deck was alive in an instant, "as bees biz out
wi" angry fyke.

"Where is the captain of the mizzen--top?" growled the man in authority.

"Here, sir."

"Here, sir!--look at the weather--clew of the mizzen--topsail, sir, look at that sail, sir,--how
many turns can you count in that clew, sir? Spring it, you no--sailor you--spring it, and set
the sail again."

How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable all this appeared to me at the time I will remember;
but the obnoxious turns were shaken out, and the sail set again so as to please even the fastidious
eye of the Lieutenant, who, seeing nothing more to find fault with, addressed me once more.

"Have had no grub since morning, Mr Cringle; all the others are away in the prizes; you are
as good as one of us now, only want the order to join, you know--so will you oblige me, and
take charge of the deck, until I go below and change my clothes, and gobble a bit?"

"Unquestionably,--with much pleasure."

He forthwith dived, and I walked aft a few steps towards where the old quartermaster was standing
on the gun.

"How is her head, Quartermaster?"

"South--east and by south, sir.  If the wind holds, we shall weather Morant Point, I think, sir."

"Very like, very like.--What is that glancing backwards and forwards across the port--hole
there, Quartermaster?"

"I told you so, Mafame," said the man; "what are you skylarking about the mizen--chains for,
man?--Come in, will you, come in."

The Captain's caution to his servant flashed on me.

"Come in, my man, and give my respects to the Captain, and tell him that I am quite well now;
the fresh air has perfectly restored me."

"I will, sir," said Mafame, half ashamed at being detected in his office of inspector--general
of my actions; but the Doctor, to whom he had been sent, having now got a leisure moment from
his labour in the shambles, came up and made enquiries as to how I felt.

"Why, Doctor, I thought I was in for a fever half an hour ago, but it is quite gone off, or
nearly so--there, feel my pulse."--It was regular, and there was no particular heat of skin.

"Why, I don't think there is much the matter with you.  Mafame, tell the Captain so; but turn
in and take some rest as soon as you can, and I will see you in the morning--and here," feeling
in his waistcoat pocket, "here are a couple of capers for you; take them now, will you?" (And
he handed me two blue pills, which I the next moment chucked overboard, to cure some bilious
dolphin of the liver complaint.) I promised to do so whenever the Lieutenant relieved the deck,
which would, I made no question, be within half an hour.

"Very well, that will do--good--night. I am regularly done up myself," quoth the Medico, as
he descended to the gunroom.

At this time of night, the prizes were all in a cluster under our lee quarter, like small icebergs
covered with snow, and carrying every rag they could set.  The Gleam was a good way a--stern,
as if to whip them in, and to take care that no stray piccaroon should make a dash at any of
them.  They slid noiselessly along like phantoms of the deep, every thing in the air and in
the water was so still--I crossed to the lee side of the deck to look at them--The Wave, seeing
some one on the hammock nettings, sheered close to, under the Firebrand's lee quarter, and
some one asked, "Do you want to speak us?" The man's voice, reflected from the concave surface
of the schooner's mainsail, had a hollow, echoing sound, that startled me.

"I should know that voice," said I to myself, "and the figure steering the schooner."

The throbbing in my head and the dizzy feel, which had capsized my judgment in the cabin, again
returned with increased violence--"It was no deception after all," thought I, "no cheat of
the senses--I now believe such things are."

The same voice now called out, "Come away, Tom, come away," no doubt to some other seaman on
board the little vessel, but my heated fancy did not so construe it.  The col real again overtook
me, and I ejaculated, "God have mercy upon me a sinner!"

"Why don't you come, Tom?" said the voice once more.

It was Obed's.  At this very instant of time, the Wave forged a--head into the Firebrand's
shadow, so that her sails, but a moment before white as wool in the bright moonbeams suffered
a sudden eclipse, and became black as ink.

"His dark spirit is there," said I, audibly, "and calls me--go I will, whatever may befall."

I hailed the schooner, or rather I had only to speak, and that in a low tone, for she was now
close under the counter "Send your boat, for since you call, I know I must come."

A small canoe slid off her deck; two ship boys got into it, and pulled under the starboard
mizzen--chains, which entirely concealed them, as they held on for a moment with a boat--hook
in the dark shadow of the ship.  This was done so silently, that neither the lookout on the
poop, who was rather on the weather--side at the moment, nor the man at the lee gangway, who
happened to be looking out forward, heard them, or saw me, as I slipped down unperceived.

"Pull back again, my lads; quick now, quick."

In a moment, I was along--side, the next I was on deck, and in this short space a change had
come over the spirit of my dream, for I now was again conscious that I was on board the Wave
with a prize crew.  My imagination had taken another direction.

"Now Mr----, I beg pardon, I forget your name,"--I had never heard it, "make more sail, and
haul out from the fleet for Mancheoneal Bay; I have despatches for the admiral--So, crack on."

The midshipman who was in charge of her never for an instant doubted but that all was right;
sail was made, and as the light breeze was the very thing for the little Wave, she began to
snorer through it like smoke. When she had shot a cable's length a--head of the Firebrand,
we kept away a point or two, so as to stand more in for the land, and, like most maniacs, I
was inwardly exulting at the success of my manoeuvre, when we heard the corvette's bell struck
rapidly.  Her maintop--sail was suddenly laid to the mast, whilst a loud voice echoed amongst
the sails--"Any one see hi--in in the waist--anybody see him forward there?"

"No, sir, no."

"After guard, fire, and let go the life--buoy--lower away the quarter boats--jolly--boat also."

We saw the flash, and presently the small blue light of the buoy, blazing and disappearing,
as it rose and fell on the waves, in the corvette's wake, sailed away astern, sparkling fitfully,
like an ignis fatuus.  The cordage rattled through the davit blocks, as the boats dashed into
the water--the splash of the oars was heard, and presently the twinkle of the life--buoy was
lost in the lurid glare of the blue lights, held aloft in each boat, where the crews were standing
up, looking like spectres by the ghastly blaze, and anxiously peering about for some sign of
the drowning man.

"A man overboard," was repeated from one to another of the prize crew.

"Sure enough," said I.

"Shall we stand back, sir?" said the midshipman.

"To what purpose?--there are enough there without us--no, no; crack on, we can do no good--carry
on, carry on!"

We did so, and I now found severe shooting pains, more racking than the sharpest rheumatism
I had ever suffered, pervading my whole body.  They increased until I suffered the most excruciating
agony, as if my bones had been converted into red--hot tubes of iron, and the marrow in them
had been dried up with fervent heat, and I was obliged to beg that a hammock might be spread
on deck, on which I lay down, pleading great fatigue and want of sleep as my excuse.

My thirst was unquenchable; the more I drank, the hotter it became.  My tongue, and mouth,
and throat, were burning, as if molten lead had been poured down into my stomach, while the
most violent retching came on every ten minutes.  The prize crew, poor fellows, did all they
could once or twice they seemed about standing back to the ship, but, "make sail, make sail,"
was my only cry.  They did so, and there I lay without any thing between me and the wet planks
but a thin sailor's blanket and the canvass of the hammock, through the livelong night, and
with no covering but a damp boatcloak, raving at times during the hot fits, at others having
my power of utterance frozen up during the cold ones.  The men, once or twice, offered to carry
me below, but the idea was horrible to me.

"No, no--not there--for heaven's sake not there!  If you do take me down, I am sure I shall
see him, and the dead mate--No, no overboard rather, throw me overboard rather."

Oh, what would I not have given for the luxury of a flood of tears!--But the fountains of mine
eyes were dried up, and seared as with a red--hot iron--my skin was parched, and hot, hot,
as if every pore had been hermetically sealed; there was a hell within me and about me as if
the deck on which I lay had been steel at a white heat, and the gushing blood, as under the
action of a force--pump, throbbed through my head, like it would have burst on my brain--and
such a racking, splitting headache--no language can describe it, and yet ever and anon in the
midst of this raging fire, this furnace at my heart, seven times heated, a sudden icy shivering
chill would shake me, and pierce through and through me, even when the roasting fever was at
the hottest.

At length the day broke on the long, long, moist, steamy night, and once more the sun rose
to bless every thing but me.  As the morning wore on, my torments increased with the heat,
and I lay sweltering on deck, in a furious delirium, held down forcibly by two men, who were
relieved by others every now and then, while I raved about Obed, and Paul, and the scenes I
had witnessed on board during the chase, and in the attack. None of my rough but kind nurses
expected I could have held on till nightfall; but shortly after sunset I became more collected,
and, as I was afterwards told, whenever any little office was performed for me, whenever some
drink was held to my lips, I would say to the gruff sunburnt, black--whiskered, square shouldered
topman who might be my Ganymede for the occasion, "Thank you, Mary; Heaven bless your pale
face, Mary; bless you, bless you!"

It  seemed  my fancy had shaken itself clear of the fearful objects  that had  so  pertinaciously
haunted me before,  and  occupying  itself  with pleasing recollections, had produced a corresponding
cahn in the  animal; but the poor fellow to whom I had expressed myself so endearingly, was,
I learned,  most awfully put out and dismayed.  He twisted and  turned  his iron  features
into  all  manner of ludicrous  combinations,  under  the laughter  of  his mates--"Now, Peter,
may I be--but I would  rather  be shot at, than hear the poor young gentleman so quiz me in
his madness."

Then  again--as I praised his lovely taper fingers--they were  more  like bunches of frosted
carrots, dipped in a tar--bucket, with the tails snapt short off, where about an inch thick.

"My taper fingers--oh lord!  Now, Peter, I can't stomach this any longer, I'll  give you my
grog for the next two days, if you will take my  spell here--My taper fingers--murder!"

As  the evening closed in we saw the high land of Jamaica, but it was the following  afternoon
before we were off the entrance of Mancheoneal  Bay. All  this  period,  although  it must
have been  one  of  great  physical suffering,  has  ever, to my ethereal part, remained a
dead  blank.   The first  thing I remember afterwards, was being carried ashore in the  dark
in  a  hammock slung on two oars, so as to form a sort of rude palanquin, and  laid  down 
at a short distance from the overseer's house  where  my troubles  had originally commenced.
I soon became perfectly sensible  and collected, but I was so weak I could not speak; after
resting  a  little, the  men  again  lifted me and proceeded.  The door of the  dining--hall,
which was the back entrance into the overseer's house, opened flush  into the  little  garden
through which we had come in--there were lights,  and sounds  of music, singing, and jovialty
within.  The farther end  of  the room, at the door of which I now rested, opened into the
piazza, or  open veranda,  which crossed it at right angles, and constituted the front  of
the  house,  forming,  with this apartment, a figure  somewhat  like  the letter  T. I stood
at the foot of the letter, as it were, and as I looked towards  the  piazza, which was gaily
lit up, I could see it was  crowded with  male  and  female  negroes in their  holyday  apparel,
with  their wholesome clear brown--black skins, not blue--black as they appear in our cold
country,  and  beautiful white teeth,  and  sparkling  black  eyes, amongst  whom  were  several
gumbie--men and  flute--players,  and  John Canoes,  as  the negro Jack Pudding is called;
the latter distinguishable by  wearing white false faces, and enormous shocks of horsehair,
fastened on  to their woolly pates.  Their character hovers somewhere between that of  a harlequin
and a clown, as they dance about, and thread through  the negro  groups, quizzing the women
and slapping the men; and at  Christmas time,  the grand negro carnival, they don't confine
their practical jokes to  their  own colour, but take all manner of comical liberties with
the whites equally with their fellow bondsmen.

The blackamoor visitors had suddenly, to all appearance, broken off their dancing,  and  were
now clustered behind a rather remarkable  group,  who were  seated  at  supper  in the dining--room,
near  to  where  I  stood, forming,  as it were, the foreground in the scene.  Mr Fyall himself
was there,  and a rosy--gilled, happy--looking man, who I thought I had  seen before;  this
much I could discern, for the light fell strong  on  them, especially  on  the face of the
latter, which shone like a  star  of  the first  magnitude, or a lighthouse in the red gleam--the
usual  family  of the  overseer, the book--keepers that is, and the worthy who had been the
proximate  cause of all my sufferings, the overseer himself,  were  there too,  as  if they
had been sitting still at table where I saw  them  now, ever  since I left them three weeks
before--at least my fancy did me  the favour  to  annihilate, for the nonce, all intermediate
time between  the point  of  my  departure on the night of the cooper's  funeral,  and  the
moment when I now revisited them.

I  was  lifted out of the hammock, and supported to the door between  two seamen.   The  fresh,
nice--looking man before  mentioned,  Aaron  Bang, Esquire, by name, an incipient planting
attorney in the neighbourhood, of great  promise, was in the act of singing a song, for it
was during  some holyday--time, which had broken down the stiff observances of  a  Jamaica
planter's life.  There he sat, lolling back on his chair, with  his  feet upon  the table,
and a cigar, half consumed, in his hand.  He had twisted up  his  mouth  and  mirth--provoking
nose, which,  by  an  unaccountable control over some muscle, present in the visage of no other
human  being, he  made  to  describe a small circle round the centre of his  face,  and slewing
his  head  on  one  side, he was  warbling,  ore  Yotundo,  some melodious  ditty, with infinite
complacency, and, to all  appearance,  to the great delight of his auditory, when his eyes
lighted on me,--he was petrified  in  a  moment, I seemed to have blasted  him,----his  warbling
ceased  instantaneously, the colour faded from his cheeks, but  there  he sat, with open mouth,
and in the same attitude as if he still sung, and I had  suddenly become deaf, or as if he
and his immediate compotators, and the group of blackies beyond, had all been on the instant
turned to stone by a slap from one of their own John Canoes.  I must have been in truth a terrible
spectacle; my skin was yellow, not as saffron, but as the  skin of a ripe lime; the white of
my eyes, to use an Irishism, ditto; my mouth and  lips had festered and broke out, as we say
in Scotland; my head  was bound  round with a napkin--none of the cleanest, you may swear;
my dress was  a  pair  of dirty duck trowsers, and my shirt, with the  boat--cloak that  had
been my only counterpane on board of the little vessel, hanging from my shoulders.

Lazarus  himself could scarcely have been a more appalling  object,  when the  voice  of  him
who spoke as never man spake,  said,  "Lazarus  come forth."

I  made  an unavailing attempt to cross the threshold, but could not.   I was  spellbound,
or there was an invisible barrier erected  against  me, which  I  could  not  overleap.  The
buzzing in my  ears,  the  pain  and throbbing in my head, and racking aches, once more bent
me to the earth, ill  and  reduced as I was, a relapse, thought I; and I felt my  judgment
once  more giving way before the sweltering fiend, who had retreated  but for  a  moment  to
renew his attacks with still greater fierceness.   The moment  he once more entered into me--the
instant that I was possessed--I cannot  call  it  by  any other name--an unnatural strength
pervaded  my shrunken muscles and emaciated frame, and I stepped boldly into the hall. While
I had stood at the door, listless and feeble as a child, hanging on the  arms  of the two topmen,
after they had raised me from the  hammock, the  whole  party  had  sat silently gazing at
me, with  their  faculties paralysed  with terror.  But now, when I stumped into the room 
like  the marble  statue  in Don Juan, and glared on them, my eyes  sparkling  with unearthly
brilliancy under the fierce distemper which had anew thrust its red  hot fingers into my maw,
and was at the moment seething my brain  in its  hellish caldron, the negroes in the piazza,
one and all, men, women, and  children,  evanished into the night, and  the  whole  party 
in  the foreground  started  to  their  legs,  as  if  they  had  been   suddenly galvanized;
the  table and chairs were overset, and  whites  and  blacks trundled, and scrambled, and bundled
over and over each other,  neck  and crop,  as if the very devil had come to invite them to
dinner in  propria personal horns, tail, and all.

"Duppy come!  Duppy come!  Massa Tom Cringle ghost stand at for we  door; we  all shall dead,
oh--we all shall go dead, oh!" bellowed the father of gods, my old ally Jupiter.

"Guid guide us, that's an awful sicht!" quod the Scotch bookkeeper.

"By the hockeytt speak if you be a ghost, or I'll exercise [exorcise]  ye wid  this  butt of
a musket," quoth the cowboy@an Irishman  to  be  sure, whose  round bullet head was discernible
in the human mass, by his black, twinkling, half--drunken--looking eyes.

"Well--a--day,"  groaned another of them, a Welshman, I believe,  with  a face  as  long as
my arm, and a drawl worthy of a Methodist parson;  "and what can it be--flesh and blood, it
is not--can these dry bones live?"

Ill as I was, however, I could perceive that all this row had now more of a  tipsy frolic in
it--whatever it might have had at first--than absolute fear;  for  the  red--faced visitor,
and Mr Fyall, as  if  half  ashamed, speedily  extricated  themselves from the  chaos  of 
chairs  and  living creatures, righted the table, replaced the candles, and having sat  down,
looking as grave as judges on the bench, Aaron Bang exclaimed--"I'll  bet a  dozen, it is the
poor fellow himself returned on our hands, half--dead from  the  rascally  treatment he has
met with  at  the  hands  of  these smuggling thieves!"

"Smugglers, or no," said Fyall, "you are right for once, my peony rose, I do believe."

But Aaron was a leetle staggered, notwithstanding, when I stumped towards him,  as  already
described, and he shifted back and back as I  advanced, with  a  most  laughable cast of countenance,
between jest  and  earnest, while  Fyall kept shouting to him--"If it be his ghost, try him
in Latin, Mr  Bang--speak Latin to him, Aaron Bang--nothing for a ghost like Latin, it is their
mother tongue."

Bang,  who, it seemed, plumed himself on his erudition, forthwith began "Quae  maribus solum
tribuunter." Aaron's conceit of exorcising a  spirit with the fag--end of an old grammar rule
would have tickled me under most circumstances;  but I was far past laughing.  I had more need,
God  help me, to pray.  I made another step.  He hitched his chair back.  "Bam, Bo, Rem!" 
shouted  the  incipient planting attorney.  Another  hitch,  which carried  him clean out of
the supper--room, and across the narrow piazza; but,  in this last movement, he made a regular
false step, the two back feet  of  his  chair  dropping over the first step of the  front 
stairs, whereupon  he  lost  his  balance,  and  toppling  over,  vanished  in  a twinkling,
and rolled down half--a--dozen steps, heels over head,  until he lay sprawling on the manger
or mule--trough before the door, where the Ceases  are fed under busha's own eye on all estates--for
this  excellent and  most  cogent  reason,  that  otherwise  the  maize  or  guinea--com, belonging
of right to poor mulo, would generally go towards improving the condition, not of the quadruped,
but of the biped quashiet who had charge of him--and there he lay in a convulsion of laughter.

The  two  seamen,  who  supported  me between  them,  were  at  first  so completely  dumfoundered
by all this, that they  could  not  speak.   At length,  however,  Timothy Tailtackle lost
his patience,  and  found  his tongue.

"This may be Jamaica frolic, good gentlemen, and all very comical in  its way; but, d--n me,
if it be either gentlemanlike or Christian like, to be after  funning  and fuddling, while
a fellow creature, and his  Majesty's commissioned officer to boot, stands before you, all
but dead of  one  of your blasted fevers."

The  honest  fellow's straightforward appeal, far from giving offence  to the  kindhearted
people to whom it was made, was not only taken  in  good part,  but  Mr Fyall himself took
the lead in setting the whole household immediately to work, to have me properly cared for.
The best room in the house  was  given up to me. I was carefully shifted and put to  bed; 
but during  all that night and the following day, I was raving in  a  furious fever,  so  that
I had to be forcibly held down in my bed, sometimes  for half an hour at a time.

I  say,  messmate, have you ever had the yellow fever, the vomito prieto, black  vomit,  as
the Spaniards call it?--No?--have you ever  had  a  bad bilious fever then?  No bad bilious
fever either?--Why, then, you  are  a most unfortunate creature; for you have never known what
it was to be  in Heaven, nor eke the other place.  Oh the delight, the blessedness of  the
languor of recovery, when one finds himself in a large airy room, with  a dreamy  indistinct
recollection of great past suffering,  endured  in  a small  miserable vessel within the tropics,
where you have  been  roasted one moment by the vertical rays of the sun, and the next annealed
hissing hot  by  the  salt sea spray;--in a broad luxurious bed, some cool  sunny morning,
with  the fresh sea breeze whistling through the  open  windows that  look  into the piazza,
and rustling the folds of the  clean  wire gauze  musquitto net that serves you for bed--curtains;
while beyond  you look  forth  into the sequestered court--yard, overshadowed by  one  vast
umbrageous  kennip tree, that makes every thing look green and  cool  and fresh beneath, and
whose branches the rushing wind is rasping cheerily on the  shingles of the roof--and oh, how
passing sweet is the lullaby  from the  humming of numberless glancing bright--hued flies,
of all sorts  and sizes,  sparkling among the green leaves like chips of a prism,  and  the
fitful whirring of the fairy--flitting humming bird, now here, now there, like  winged gems,
or living atoms of the rainbow, round which their tiny wings, moving too quickly to be visible,
form little haloes--and the palm tree at the house--corner is shaking its long hard leaves,
making a sound for  all the world like the pattering of rain; and the orange--tree  top, with
ripe fruit, and green fruit, and white blossoms, is waving  to  and fro  flush  with the window--sill,
dashing the fragrant odour  into  your room  at  every whish; and the double Jessamine is twining
up  the  papaw (whose fruit, if rubbed on a bull's hide, immediately converts it into  a tender
beef--steak) and absolutely stifling you with sweet perfume;  and then  the sangaree old Madeira,
two parts of water, no more, and nutmeg and  not  a  taste out of a thimble, but a rummerful
of it, my boy,  that would  drown your first--born at his christening, if he slipped into 
it, and  no stinting in the use of this ocean; on the contrary, the tidy  old brown nurse,
or mayhap a buxom young one, at your bedside, with ever  and anon a lettle more panada, (d--n
panada, I had forgotten that!) "and  den some  more sangaree; it will do massa good, strengthen
him tomack"--and, but I am out of breath, and must lie to for a brief space.

I opened my eyes late in the morning of the second day after landing, and saw Mr Fyall and
the excellent Aaron Bang sitting one on each side of  my bed.  Although weak as a sucking infant,
I had a strong persuasion on  my mind  that all danger was over, and that I was convalescent.
I  had  no feverish symptom whatsoever, but felt cool and comfortable, with  a  fine balmy
moisture  on  my  skin;  as  yet,  however,  I  spoke  with  great difficulty.

Aaron noticed this.

"Don't  exert yourself too much, Tom; take it coolly, man, and thank  God that you are now
fairly round the corner.  Is your head painful?"

"No--why should it?"

Mr  Fyall  smiled, and I put up my hand--it was all I could  do,  for  my limbs  appeared loaded
with lead at the extremities, and when  I  touched any  part of my frame, with my hand for
instance, there was no concurring sensation conveyed by the nerves of the two parts; sometimes
I felt as if touched by the hand of another; at others, as if I had touched the person of 
some  one  else.   When I raised my hand to my forehead,  my  fingers instinctively moved to
take hold of my hair, for I was in no small degree proud  of  some  luxuriant brown curls,
which the women used  to  praise. Alas and alack--a--day! in place of ringlets, glossy with
Macassar oil, I found a cool young tender plantain--leaf bound round my temples.

"What is all this?" said I. "A kale--blade, where my hair used to be!"

"How came this kale--blade here, And how came it here?"

Sung  friend Bang, laughing, for he had great powers of laughter,  and  I saw he kept his quizzical
face turned towards some object at the head  of the bed, which I could not see.

"You may say that, Aaron--where's my wig, you rogue, eh?"

"Never mind, Tom," said Fyall, "your hair will soon grow again, won't it, miss?"

"Miss!  miss!" and I screwed my neck round, and lo!--"Ah, Mary,  and  are you  the  Delilah
who have shorn my locks--you wicked young  female  lady you!"

She  smiled  and  nodded to Aaron, who was a deuced  favourite  with  the ladies,  black, brown,
and white, (I give the pas to the  staple  of  the country--hope no offence,) as well as with
every one else who  ever  knew him.

"How dare you, friend Bang, shave and blister my head, you dog?" said I. "You cannibal Indian,
you have scalped me; you are a regular Mohawk."

"Never mind, Tom--never mind, my boy," said he.  "Ay, you may blush, Mary Palma.   Cringle
there will fight, but he will have 'Palmam  qui  meruit ferat' for his motto yet, take my word
for it."

The  sight  of  my cousin's lovely face, and the heavenly  music  of  her tongue, made me so
forgiving, that I could be angry with no one.--At this moment a nice--looking elderly man slid
into the room as noiselessly as a cat.

"How  are  you,  Lieutenant?  Why, you are positively gay  this  morning! Preserve me!--why
have you taken off the dressing from your head?"

"Preserve  me--you may say that, Doctor--why, you seem to have  preserved me, and pickled me
after a very remarkable fashion, certainly!  Why, man, do you intend to make a mummy of me,
with all your swaddlings?  Now, what is that crackling on my chest?  More plantain--leaves,
as I live!"

"Only another blister, sir."

"Only another blister--and my feet--Zounds! what have you been doing with my feet?  The soles
are as tender as if I had been bastinadoed."

"Only cataplasms, sir; mustard and bird--pepper poultices nothing more."

"Mustard and bird--pepper poultices!--and pray, what is that long fiddle case supported on
two chairs in the piazza!"

"What  case?" said the good Doctor, and his eye followed mine.   "Oh,  my gun--case.   I  am
a great sportsman, you must know--but draw  down  that blind, Mr Bang, if you please, the breeze
is too strong."

"Gun--case!  I  would  rather have taken it for your  game--box,  Doctor. However, thanks be
to Heaven, you have not bagged me this bout."

At  this moment, I heard a violent scratching and jumping on the roof  of the house, and presently
a loud croak, and a strong rushing noise, as  of a large bird taking flight--"What is that,
Doctor?"

"The  devil," said he, laughing, "at least your evil genius, Lieutenant, it  is  the  carrion
crows, the large John--Crows, as  they  are  called, flying  away.   They have been holding
a council of war  upon  you  since early dawn, expecting (I may tell you, now you are so well)
that it might likely soon turn into a coroner's inquest."

"John--Crow!--Coroner's inquest!--Cool shavers those  West  India  chaps, after  all!" muttered
I; and again I lay back, and offered up my  heart, warm thanks to the Almighty, for his great
mercy to me a sinner.

My aunt and cousin had been on a visit in the neighbourhood, and overnight Mr Fyall had kindly
sent for them to receive my last sigh, for  to all appearance  I was fast going.  Oh, the gratitude
of  my  heart,  the tears  of joy I wept in my weak blessedness, and the overflowing of heart
that I experienced towards that almighty and ever--merciful Being who had spared me, and brought
me out of my great sickness, to look round on dear friends,  and on the idol of my heart, once
more, after all  my  grievous sufferings!   I  took  Mary's hand--I could not  raise  it  for
lack  of strength,  or  I would have kissed it; but, as she leant over  me,  Fyall came behind
her and gently pressed her sweet lips to mine, while the dear girl  blushed as red as Aaron
Bang's face.  By this my aunt  herself  had come  into  the room, and a warm congratulations,
and last, although  not least,  Timothy  Tailtackle made his appearance  in  the  piazza  at
the window,  with  a  clean,  joyful, well shaven countenance.   He  grinned, turned his quid,
pulled up his trowsers, smoothed down his hair with  his hand,  and  gave a sort of half--tipsy
shamble, meant for a  bow,  as  he entered the bedroom.

"You have forereached on Davy this time, sir.  Heaven be praised for  it! He  was  close aboard
of you, howsomdever, sir, once or twice."  Then  he bowed round the room again, with a sort
of swing or caper, whichever  you choose  to  call  it,  as if he had been the party obliged.
"Kind  folk, these,  sir," he continued, in what was meant for sotto voce, and for  my ear
alone, but it was more like the growling of a mastiff puppy than any thing else.  "Kind folk,
sir--bad as their mountebanking looked the first night, sir--why, Lord bless your honour, may
they make a marine of me, if they  han't  set a Bungo to wait on us, Bill and I, that is--and
we  has grog more than does us good--and grub, my eye!--only think, sir--Bill and Timothy 
Tailtackle waited on by a black Bungo!" and he  doubled  himself up, chuckling and hugging
himself, with infinite glee.

"All  now  went  merry as a marriage bell." I was carefully  conveyed  to Kingston,  where
I rallied under my aunt's hospitable roof,  as  rapidly almost  as I had sickened, and within
a fortnight, all bypast strangeness explained  to  my  superiors,  I  at length  occupied 
my  berth  in  the Firebrand's gunroom, as third lieutenant of the ship.

CHAPTER XI

More Scenes in Jamaica.

There be land--rats and water--rats--water--thieves and land thieves I mean pirates.

THE MERCHANT OF VENICE, I. iii. 22--24.

The malady from whose fangs I had just escaped, was at this time making fearful ravages amongst
the troops and white inhabitants of Jamaica generally; nor was the squadron exempted from the
afflicting visitation, although it suffered in a smaller degree.

I had occasion at this time to visit Uppark camp, a military post about a mile and a half from
Kingston, where two regiments of infantry, and a detachment of artillery, were stationed.

In the forenoon, I walked out in company with an officer, a relation of my own, whom I had
gone to visit; enjoying the fresh sea breeze that whistled past us in half a gale of wind,
although the sun was vertical, and shining into the bottom of a pint pot, as the sailors have it.

The barracks were built on what appeared to me a very dry situation (although I have since
heard it alleged that there was a swamp to windward of it, over which the sea breeze blew,
but this I did not see,) considerably elevated above the hot sandy plain on which Kingston
stands, and sloping gently towards the sea.  They were splendid, large, airy two story buildings,
well raised off the ground on brick pillars, so that there was a perfectly free ventilation
of air between the surface of the earth and the floor of the first story, as well as through
the whole of the upper rooms.  A large balcony, or piazza, ran along the whole of the south
front, both above and below, which shaded the brick shell of the house from the sun, and afforded
a cool and convenient lounge for the men.  The outhouses of all kinds were well thrown back
into the rear, so that in front there was nothing to intercept the sea--breeze.  The officers'
quarters stood in advance of the men's barracks, and were, as might be expected, still more
comfortable; and in front of all were the field--officer's houses, the whole of substantial
brick and mortar.  This superb establishment stood in an extensive lawn, not surpassed in beauty
by any nobleman's park that I had ever seen.  It was immediately after the rains when I visited
it; the grass was luxuriant and newly cut, and the trees, which grew in detached clumps, were
most magnificent.  We clambered up into one of them, a large umbrageous wild cotton--tree,
which cast a shadow on the ground--the sun being, as already mentioned, right overhead--of
thirty paces in diameter; but still it was but a dwarfish plant of its kind, for I have measured
others whose gigantic shadows, at the same hour, were upwards of one hundred and fifty feet
in diameter, and their trunks, one in particular that overhangs the Spanish Town road, twenty
feet through of solid timber; that is, not including the enormous spurs that shoot out like
buttresses, and end in strong twisted roots, that strike deep into the earth, and form stays,
as it were, to the tree in all directions.

Our object, however--publish it not in Askalon was, not so much to admire the charms of nature,
as to enjoy the luxury of a real Havannah cigar, in solitary comfort; and a glorious perch
we had selected.  The shade was grateful beyond measure.  The fresh breeze was rushing, almost
roaring, through the leaves and groaning branches, and every thing around was green, and fragrant,
and Cool, and delicious; by comparison that is, for the thermometer would, I daresay, have
still vouched for eighty degrees.  The branches overhead were alive with a variety of beautiful
lizards, and birds of the gayest plumage; amongst others, a score of small chattering green
paroquets were hopping close to us, and playing at bopeep from the lower surfaces of the leaves
of the wild pine, (a sort of Brobdignag parasite, that grows, like the mistletoe, in the clefts
of the larger trees,) to which they clung, as green and shining as the leaves themselves, and
ever and anon popping their little heads and shoulders over to peer at us; while the red--breasted
woodpecker kept drumming on every hollow part of the bark, for all the world, like old Kelson,
the carpenter of the Torch, tapping along the top sides for the dry rot.  All around us the
men were lounging about in the shade, and sprawling on the grass in their foraging caps and
light jackets, with an officer here and there lying reading, or sauntering about, bearding
Phoebus himself, to watch for a shot at a swallow, as it skimmed past; while goats and horses,
sheep and cattle, were browsing the fresh grass, or sheltering themselves from the heat beneath
the trees.  All nature seemed alive and happy--a little drowsy from the heat or so, but that
did not much signify--when two carts, each drawn by a mule, and driven by a negro, approached
the tree whereon we were perched.  A solitary sergeant accompanied them, and they appeared,
when a bowshot distant, to be loaded with white deal boxes.

I paid little attention to them until they drove under the tree.

"I say, Snowdrop," said the non--commissioned officer, "where be them black rascals, them pioneers--where
is the fateague party, my Lily white, who ought to have the trench dug by this time?"

"Dere now," grumbled the negro, "dere now--easy ting to deal wid white gentleman, but debil
cannot satisfy dem worsted sash." Then aloud--"Me no know, sir--me can't tell--no for me business
to dig hole--I only carry what you fill him up wid;" and the vampire, looking over his shoulder,
cast his eye towards his load, and grinned until his white teeth glanced from ear to ear.

"Now," said the Irish sergeant, "I could brain you, but it is not worth while!"--I question
if he could, however, knowing as I did the thickness of their skulls, "Ah, here they come!"--and
a dozen half drunken, more than half--naked, bloated, villainous--looking blackamoors, with
shovels and pick--axes on their shoulders, came along the road, laughing and singing most lustily.
They passed beneath where we sat, and, when about a stonecast beyond, they all jumped into
a trench or pit, which I had not noticed before, about twenty feet long, by eight wide.  It
was already nearly six feet deep, but it seemed they had instructions to sink it further, for
they first plied their pickaxes, and then began to shovel out the earth.  When they had completed
their labour, the sergeant, who had been superintending their operations, returned to where
the carts were still standing beneath the tree.  One of them had six coffins in it, with the
name of the tenant of each, and number of his company, marked in red chalk on the smallest end!

"I say, Snowdrop," said the sergeant, "how do you come to have only five bodies, when Cucumbershin
there has six?"

"To be sure I hab no more as five, and weight enough too.  You no see Corporal Bumblechops
dere?  You knows how big he was."

"Well, but where is Sergeant Heavystern? why did you not fetch him away with the others?"

The negro answered doggedly, "Massa Sergeant, you should remember dem no die of consumption--cough
you call him--nor fever and ague, nor any ting dat waste dem--for tree day gone--no more--all
were mount guard--tout and fat; so as for Sergeant Heavystern, him left in de dead--house at
de hospital."

"I guessed as much, you dingy tief," said the sergeant, "but I will break your bones, if you
don't give me a sufficing reason why you left him."--And he approached Snowdrop, with his cane
raised in act to strike.

"Top, massa," shouted the negro; "me will tell you--Dr Plaget desire dat Heavystern should
be leave."

"Confound Dr Plaget"--and he smote the pioneer across the pate, whereby he broke his stick,
although, as I anticipated, without much hurting his man--but the sergeant instantly saw his
error, and with the piece of the baton he gave Snowdrop a tap on the shin--bone, that set him
pirouetting on one leg, with the other in his hand, like a tee--totum.

"Why,  sir, did you not bring as many as Cucumbershin, sir?" "Becaase" screamed  Snowdrop,
in great wrath, now all alive and kicking  from  the smart--"Becaase Cucumbershin is loaded
wid light infantry, sir, and  all of mine are grenadier, Massa Sergeant--dat dem good reason
surely!"

"No, it is not, sir; go back and fetch Heavystern immediately, or by the powers but I will"--"Massa
Sergeant, you must be mad--Dr Plaget--you won't yeerie--but him say, five grenadier--especially
wid Corporal Bumblechop for one--is good load--ay, wery tif load--equal to seven tallion company
[battallion, I presume], and more better load, great deal, den six light infantry--beside him
say, tell Sergeant Pivot to send you back at five in de afternoon wid four more coffin, by
which time he would have anoder load, and in trute de load was ready prepare in de deadhouse
before I come away, only dem were not well cold just yet."

I was mightily shocked at all this--but my chum took it very coolly.--He slightly raised one
side of his mouth, and, giving a knowing wink with his eye, lighted a fresh cigar, and continued
to puff away with all the composure in the world.

At length the forenoon wore away, and the bugles sounded for dinner, when we adjourned to the
messroom.  It was a very large and handsome saloon, standing alone in the lawn, and quite detached
from all the other buildings, but the curtailed dimensions of the table in the middle of it,
and the ominous crowding together of the regimental plate, like a show--table in Rundle and
Bridge's back shop, gave startling proofs of the ravages of the "pestilence that walketh in
darkness, and the destruction that wasteth at noonday;" for although the whole regiment was
in barracks, there were only nine covers laid, one of which was for me.  The lieutenant--colonel,
the major, and, I believe, fifteen other officers, had already been gathered to their fathers,
within four months from the day on which the regiment landed from the transports.  Their warfare
was o'er, and they slept well.  At the first, when the insidious disease began to creep on
apace, and to evince its deadly virulence, all was dismay and anxiety--downright, slavish,
unmanly fear, even amongst casehardened veterans, who had weathered the whole Peninsular war,
and finished off with Waterloo. The next week passed over--the mortality increasing, but the
dismay decreasing and so it wore on, until it reached its horrible climax, at the time I speak
of, by which period there was absolutely no dread at all.  A reckless gaiety had succeeded
not the screwing up of one's courage for the nonce, to mount a breach, or to lay an enemy's
frigate aboard, where the substratum of fear is present, although cased over by an energetic
exertion of the will; but an unnatural light--heartedness, for which account, ye philosophers,
for I cannot--and this, too, amongst men who, although as steel in the field, yet whenever
a common cold overtook them in quarters, or a small twinge of rheumatic pain, would, under
other circumstances, have caudled and beflannelled themselves, and bored you for your sympathy,
at no allowance, as they say.

The major elect, that is, the senior captain, was in the chair; as for the lieutenant--colonel's
vacancy, that was too high an aspiration for any man in the regiment.  A stranger of rank,
and interest, and money, would of course get that step, for the two deaths in the regimental
staff made but one captain a major, as my neighbour on the left hand feelingly remarked.  All
was fun and joviality; we had a capital dinner, and no allusion whatever, direct or indirect,
was made to the prevailing mortal epidemic, until the surgeon came in, about eight o'clock
in the evening.

"Sit down, doctor," said the president--"take some wine; can recommend the Madeira, claret
but so, so your health."

The doctor bowed, and soon became as happy and merry as the rest; so we carried on, until about
ten o'clock, when the lights began to waltz a little, and propagate also, and I found I had
got enough, or, peradventure, a little more than enough, when the senior captain rose, and
walked very composedly out of the room--but I noticed him pinch the doctor's shoulder as he passed.

The Medico thereupon stole quietly after him; but we did not seem to miss either--a young sub
had usurped the deserted throne, and there we were all once more in full career, singing and
bousing, and cracking. bad jokes to our hearts' content.  By--and--by, in comes the doctor
once more.

"Doctor," quoth young sub, "take some wine; can't recommend the Madeira this time," mimicking
his predecessor very successfully; "the claret, you know, has been condemned, but a little
hot brandy and water, eh?"

The doctor once more bowed his pate, made his hot stuff, and volunteered a song.--After he
had finished, and we had all hammered on the table to his honour and glory, until every thing
danced again as if it had been a matter of very trivial concern, he said, "Sorry I was away
so long; but old Spatterdash has got a damned thick skin, I can tell you--could scarcely get
the lancet into him--I thought I should have had to send for a spring phleme--to tip him the
veterinary, you know--and he won't take physic: so I fear he will have but a poor chance."

Spatterdash was no other than mine host who had just vacated!

"What, do you really think he is in for it?" said the second oldest captain who sat next me;
and as he spoke he drew his leg from beneath the table, and, turning out his dexter heel, seemed
to contemplate the site of the prospective fixed spur.

"I do, indeed," quoth Dr Plaget.  He died within three days!

