Let us not for one moment lose sight of this fact. We go into this war not merely to sustain
the government and defend the Constitution. There is a moral principle involved. How came that
government in danger? What has brought this wicked war, with all its evils and horrors, upon
us? Whence comes the necessity for this uprising of the people? To these questions, there can
be but one answer. SLAVERY HAS DONE IT. That accursed system, which has already cost us so
much, has at length culminated in this present ruin and confusion. That system must be put
down. The danger must never be suffered to occur again. The evil must be eradicated, cost what
it may. We are for no half-way measures. So long as the slave system kept itself within the
limits of the Constitution, we were bound to let it alone, and to respect its legal rights;
but when, overleaping those limits, it bids defiance to all law, and lays its vile hands on
the sacred altar of liberty and the sacred flag of the country, and would overturn the Constitution
itself, thenceforth slavery has no constitutional rights. It is by its own act an outlaw. It
can never come back again into the temple, and claim a place by right among the worshippers
of truth and liberty. It has ostracised itself, and that for ever.

Let us not be told, then, that the matter of slavery does not enter into the present controversy--that
it is merely a war to uphold the government and put down secession. It is not so. So far from
this, slavery is the very heart and head of this whole struggle. The conflict is between freedom
on the one hand, maintaining its rights, and slavery on the other, usurping and demanding that
to which it has no right. It is a war of principle as well as of self-preservation; and that
is but a miserable and short-sighted policy which looks merely at the danger and overlooks
the cause; which seeks merely to put out the fire, and lets the incendiary go at large, to
repeat the experiment at his leisure. We must do both--put out the fire, and put out the incendiary
too. We meet the danger effectually only by eradicating the disease.--Erie True American.

THE SLAVES AS A MILITARY ELEMENT.

A NOVEL SIGHT.

A procession of several hundred stout negro men, members of the "domestic institution," marched
through our streets yesterday in military order, under the command of Confederate officers.
They were well armed and equipped with shovels, axes, blankets, &c. A merrier set never were seen.

An Abolitionist could not have looked upon this body of colored recruits for the Southern army
without strongly suspecting that his intense sympathy for the "poor slave" was not appreciated,
that it was wasted on an ungrateful subject.

The arms of these colored warriors were rather mysterious. Could it be that those gleaming
axes were intended to drive into the thick skulls of the Abolitionists the truth, to which
they are wilfully blind, that their interference in behalf of Southern slaves is neither appreciated
nor desired; or that those shovels were intended to dig trenches for the interment of their
carcasses? It may be that the shovels are to be used in digging ditches, throwing up breastworks,
or the construction of masked batteries, those abominations to every abolition Paul Pry who
is so unlucky as to stumble upon them.--Memphis Avalanche, Sept. 3.