"But you see, my child, the devil of it is that it would be the Milan story over again. You
would have all the family to fight against. A Cardinal Legate can be quite as despotic, and
disagreeable, and tyrannical as an Austrian governor. You may be very sure that these people
have some marriage in view for this young Marchese, the hope of the family! We know that the
Marchese Lamberto is hand and glove with the Cardinal. And there would be an exit from Ravenna
after the same fashion as our last!"

"I know for certain already, that there is a marriage arranged between the young Marchese and
no less a personage than the niece of the Cardinal Legate himself," said Bianca.

"Well then; that is not very promising ground to build on, is it, bambina mia!" replied Quinto.

"It may be, that as far as the man himself is concerned, the match that has been made for him
would be rather the reverse of a difficulty in the way," rejoined Bianca.

"But the difficulty will not come from the man himself, cara mia! It would be doing you wrong
to suppose that to be at all likely. I don't suppose it; but--do you imagine that the Cardinal
Legate will permit you to snatch his niece's proposed husband from out of her mouth! It would
be a worse job than the other," said Quinto, shaking his head emphatically.

"So that you are all for the uncle, papa mio?" rejoined Bianca; yawning, as if she were tired
of discussing the subject.

"Well, I confess it seems to my poor judgment the better scheme, and indeed a very promising
scheme. Depend upon it, my child, an old man, who is his own master, is the better and safer
game," replied Quinto.

"Very well! Have at the old man then, as you call him; though, as I have told you, Quinto,
he is not an old man--not over forty-five I should say; at all events the right side of fifty,
I'd wager anything! But I tell you fairly, that a less promising subject I never saw. A man,
who has lived till that age a bachelor, though the head of his family,--and a bachelor of the
out-and-out moral and respectable sort, mind you,--the great friend of the Cardinal; trustee
to nunneries, and all that sort of thing!--a man who looks at you and speaks to you as if he
was a master of ceremonies presenting a Duchess to a Queen,--a man, I should say, who had never
cared for a woman in his life, and was very unlikely to begin to do so now," said Bianca, yawning
again as she finished speaking.

"Bambina mia," replied Quinto, "you are a very clever child, and you know a great many things.
But you have not yet sufficiently studied the elderly gentleman department of human nature.
If the Marchese Lamberto is as you describe him, it may be, it is true, that he is one of those
men for whom female beauty has no charm, and on whom any kind of attack would be thrown away
and mere lost labour. But it is far more likely that the exact reverse may be found to be the
case! A thousand circumstances of his social position, or even of his temper and turn of mind,
may have kept him a bachelor,--may have kept him out of the way of women altogether. He may
be found cautious, haughty, backward to woo, requiring to be wooed, in love with the respectabilities
of his social standing; but depend upon it, bambina mia, if you can once awaken the dormant
passion of such a man, you may produce effects wholly irresistible,--you may do anything with
him! His love would be like a frozen torrent when the thaw comes! It would dash aside every
opposition that could be offered it. The calculated and calculating tentatives, and coquettings
and nibblings of your practised lovers, who have been in love a dozen times, would be as a
trickling rill to an ocean wave, compared to what might be expected from the passion of a heart
first strongly moved at the time of life the Marchese has reached. Fascinate such a man as
that, and in such a position, bambina mia, and all the governors, and all the Cardinals that
ever mumbled a mass, won't avail to prevent him from being your own!"

"Well, I suppose you are right, Quinto. And I suppose that that is what it must be!--But--well!
it is time to be going to bed, I suppose; I am tired and sleepy!" said Bianca, rousing herself
after a pause from a reverie into which she seemed to have fallen, and yawning as she got up
from the sofa.

CHAPTER III

"Armed at All Points"

The quartiere which La Lalli found prepared at Ravenna for her and her travelling companion
was a very eligible one. It consisted of a very nicely-furnished sitting-room, with a bed-room
opening off on one side for herself, and another similarly situated on the other side for her
father. There was also, behind, one little closet for a servant to sleep in, and another, still
smaller, intended to serve as a kitchen.

On the morning following the conversation related in the last chapter Bianca, hearing Quinto
coming out of his bed-room into the sitting-room about nine o'clock, called out to him from
her bed:

"Oh, papa! I forgot to tell you last night that the Marchese and Signor Stadione are to be
here at one o'clock to-day to hear me, and settle about the night of the 6th, you know."

"All right, bambina mia! I will be back in time. I'm going to the cafe to get some breakfast,"
called out Quinto through the door.

"Yes. But, papa, be here at one o'clock, and do not come back before that. E inteso? And send
me a cup of chocolate from the cafe."

"Inteso! I'll be here at one, and not before," said the old man through the door, with special
emphasis on the last words.

Then Bianca called her maid, told her to bring the chocolate to her as soon as it came from
the cafe, and then to come and dress her at ten. Whether the intervening time was spent in
sleep or meditation may be doubted; but, at all events, when the hour for action came Bianca
was ready for it.

By means of the skilled and practised assistance of Gigia Daddi, the maid who had been with
her ever since the first beginning of her stage career, the Diva had completed her toilette
by half-past eleven. But she had had, to a certain degree, a double toilette to perform. All
the component parts of a rich and very becoming morning-costume had been selected and assorted
with due care, and minute attention to the effect each portion of it was calculated to produce
in combination with the rest; and then they had been not put on, but laid out in order on the
bed. The more immediate purpose of the Diva was to array herself differently--differently,
but by no means with a less careful and well-considered attention to the result which was intended
to be produced.

The magnificent hair was brushed till it gleamed like burnished gold as the sun-rays played
upon it. But when ready to be coiled in the artistic masses, which Gigia knew well how to arrange,
variously, according to the style and nature of the effect designed to be produced, it was
left uncoiled, streaming in great ripples over back and shoulders in its profuse abundance.
An exquisite little pair of boots, of black satin, clasping ankle and instep like a glove,
were chosen to match the black satin dress laid out on the bed: but, like the dress, were not
put on. The place of the black satin dress was supplied by a wrapper of very fine white muslin,
edged with delicate lace, so shaped with consummate skill that, though the snowy folds seemed
to lie loosely within the girdle that confined them at the waist, no part of the effect of
the round elastic slimness of the waist was lost; open at the neck, from a point about a span
beneath the collar-bone, it allowed the whole of the noble white column of the grandly-formed
throat to be visible from its base above the bosom to the opening out of the exquisite lines
about the nape of the neck into the tapering swelling of the classically-shaped head. The exact
arrangement of the shape of this opening of the dress, from the throat down to about a hand's-breadth
above the girdle, was very carefully attended to; the lace-edged folds of the muslin being
three or four times drawn a little more forward so as to conceal, or a little back so as to
show, a more liberal glimpse of the swelling bosom on either side, by the doubting Diva, as
she stood before the glass.

"E troppo, cosi." she said to her attendant at last. "Is that too much so?"

Gigia looked critically before she answered, "To receive, yes,--a little, perhaps. But to be
caught unawares, no; and then with a handkerchief, you know--"

"Oh, yes! One knows the exercise," said Bianca, with a laugh; "blush and call attention to
it by covering it with one's handkerchief, which falls down as often as one chooses to repeat
the manoeuvre. A chi lo dite?"

"Style?" said Gigia.

"Sentimental,--eyes soft and dreamy; therefore the very faintest blush of rouge. Yes; not a
shade more."

"You won't put your bottines on?"

"No; there'll be time afterwards. Give me a pair of bronze kid slippers. After all, there is
nothing that shows a foot so well: and look here, Gigia, draw this stocking a little better;
I'd almost as soon have a wrinkle in my face as in the silk on my instep. That's better! The
narrow black velvet with the jet cross for my neck, nothing else. Now, you understand? Anybody
who comes after one o'clock may be admitted; before that you will let in no soul save the Marchese
Lamberto, in case he should come. I don't at all know that he will. And, Gigia," continued
her mistress, as she passed into the sitting-room, "draw this sofa over to the other side of
the fireplace, so as to face the window; ten years hence, when you have to place a sofa for
me, you may put it just contrariwise--so, with the head at the side of the fireplace, and push
the table a little further back so as to leave room for the easy-chair there to stand near
the foot of the sofa facing the fire. That will do. Now, be sure of your man before you let
him in. The Marchese Lamberto, mind, an elderly gentleman--not the Marchese Ludovico, who is
a young man. If he or anybody else should come before one o'clock tell them that I can see
nobody till that time. Now, don't bring me the wrong man; and, Gigia, if he comes, don't announce
him, you know. Just open the door quietly, and let him walk into the room without disturbing
me-- you understand?"

"A chi lo dite, Signora mia! Lasciate fare a me! Is it the first time?" said Gigia.

"If only one could hope that it would be the last," returned her mistress with a half laugh,
half sigh.

By the time all these arrangements were made it was nearly twelve o'clock; and Bianca, dismissing
her maid, placed herself, not without some care in the arrangement of her delicate draperies,
on the sofa.

The judicious Gigia had said that the extent of snowy bosom exposed was not too liberal, due
consideration being had to the circumstance that the Diva was to be caught by an unexpected
surprise in an undress. So, as Bianca meant to be very much surprised, she carefully, and with
dainty fingers, drew back the muslin on either side just a thought, so as to permit to an exploring
eye merely such a suggestive peep of the swelling curves on either side as might furnish an
estimate of the outline of the veiled heights beyond. She smiled, half with pleased consciousness
and half with self-mockery, as she did so: then carefully arranged her drapery so as to allow
two slim ankles to be visible just at the point where they crossed each other in a position
which exhibited the curved instep of one slender foot in a full front view, and the side of
the other negligently thrown across it. The pose was artistically perfect. Lastly, with one
or two dexterous touches and shakes, she so arranged her wealth of hair as to combine an appearance
of the most perfect negligee with a thoroughly artistic disposition of it, which, while it
displayed to the best advantage the tresses themselves, served also to heighten the effect
of the contours of neck and bust, which they partly showed and partly concealed.

And then the Diva waited patiently.

She had, as she had said to Gigia, no certain knowledge that he would come, nor even any very
clear reason to believe that he would do so--that he would come, that is to say, earlier than
one o'clock, at which hour it had been arranged that he should meet Stadione there. Nevertheless,
Bianca had a strong persuasion that he would come earlier. Despite what she had said to Quinto
Lalli of the circumstances and signs which seemed to indicate that the Marchese was not a man
likely to be exposed to danger from such attacks as the Diva meditated making on him,--despite
the fact that she had said to herself also all that she had said to her old friend, there had
been something about the Marchese's manner--something in that last pressure of palm to palm
that had set Bianca speculating as to the meaning of it. It was not a mere manifestation of
admiration; the Diva was used enough to that in all its forms, and could read every tone of
its language. It was more like wonder and curiosity,-- at all events, it was not indifference.
She had seen with half an eye, and without the slightest appearance of seeing it, that the
Marchese could not keep his eyes away from her. During the drive to the city, and afterwards
at the Palazzo Castelmare, while she was making the acquaintance of the principal people of
the city, it had been the same thing. And nothing could be further than was the Marchese's
manner, from the bold, unabashed staring, which such beautiful Divas as Bianca have often to
endure. He evidently was devouring her with his eyes on the sly. Evidently he did not wish
to be observed looking at her as he did look. Whenever her own eyes caught him in the fact,
his were on the instant withdrawn: to return, as Bianca well marked, on the next instant.

Then, after those first words, which he had addressed to her at their meeting in the road,
she had noted that he did not speak to her, as she sat by his side in the carriage, with the
simple ease and freedom of indifference. There was almost something approaching to a manifestation
of emotion in his manner of addressing her. It could not be that this elderly gentleman,--this
very mature Marchese, had fallen in love with her already. Such an idea would have been too
absurd! Yet his whole bearing was odd and ill at ease.

It had seemed to himself as if some subtle material influence affected him, as he sat by her
side,--as if a magnetic emanation came forth from her that mounted to his brain, and disordered
his pulses, and the flow of his blood. He had sat by the side of women as beautiful before
now, and never been conscious of being affected in any similar manner. What it was that produced
such an effect upon his nervous system,--what was the matter with him, he could not for the
life of him imagine. It was unpleasant; he did not like it at all. And yet some irresistible
stimulus and curiosity drove him to prolong rather than to avoid the sorcery.

Bianca was by no means fully aware of the power and of the strength of the sorcery which she
was exercising on the Marchese. But she understood a great deal more about it than he did.
And when, in making the appointment for him and the impresario to call on her at one o'clock,
he had asked her if that was too early for her habits, and she had replied, that she was always
afoot much earlier than that, Bianca had felt persuaded that he would be at the door at an
earlier hour.

And her experience, or her instinct, with reference to such matters had not deceived her.

The quarter-past twelve had not struck, when the Diva heard a knock at the door of her apartment.

CHAPTER IV

Throwing the Line

In the next instant Bianca heard the door of the room in which she was sitting opened very
gently; it was Gigia who opened it, so gently as to enable her mistress to keep her eyes on
a book she held in her hand, apparently unconscious that she was not alone. The Marchese Lamberto
advanced two paces within the room, and then stopped gazing at the exquisite picture before
his eyes. Bianca knew that all her preparatory cares were doing the work they were intended
to do. But no sound had yet been made to compel her to recognize her visitor's presence; and
she remained as motionless as a recumbent statue.

"I fear, Signora--," said the Marchese, after a few instants given to profiting by the rare
opportunity a singular chance had given him,--"I fear, Signora--

"Santa Maria, who is there!" cried Bianca in a voice of alarm, starting to her feet as she
spoke with a bound, that none but so skilled an artist and so perfect a figure could have executed
with the faultless elegance with which she accomplished it.

"A thousand pardons, Signora; your servant--"

"The Marchese Lamberto! It is unpardonable in the woman--to have so failed in her duty-towards
your Excellency! It is I who have to beg your indulgence, Signor Marchese. Can it be one o'clock
already? In truth I had no idea it was so late; and I have still to dress! How can I apologize
to your Excellency sufficiently for appearing before you in this dishabille?"

"Nay, Signora, it is in truth I who have to apologize; it is not yet one o'clock, it is not
much past twelve! And I feel that I am guilty of an unwarrantable intrusion. But I hoped for
the opportunity of having a few words of conversation before the hour named for our little
business with our good Signor Ercole. Permit me to assure you, Signora, that if your servant
had given me the least hint that you were not yet--ready to see any visitor--"

"If only your Excellency will excuse--the fact is, I have so rarely any visitors that the poor
woman does not understand her duty in such matters. Really I am so covered with confusion,"--she
continued, putting up her delicate little hand with a feeble sort of little attempt to draw
her dress a little more together across her throat. "I cannot forgive her! She has exposed
me to seem wanting in respect towards your Excellency; I will dismiss her from my service!"

"Let me intercede for her, poor woman!" said the Marchese, advancing into the room; "indeed
it was mainly my fault, I ought to have asked if you were visible."

"One word from la sua Signoria is enough. If you can forgive me, I must forgive her! But you
will own, Signor Marchese, that it is-- what shall I say--?" She hesitated and cast her eyes
down with a bewitching smile and a little movement of her bead to one side, "that it really
is--embarrassing! Such a thing never happened to me before!"

"But now it has happened, Signora," said the Marchese, emboldened by the smile, and by a shy
sidelong glance, which she shot from under her eye-lashes with a laugh in her eyes, as she
spoke; "now it has happened that I have been permitted to see you in a toilet all the more
exquisitely charming in that it wants the formality of the costume in which the world is wont
to see you,--may I not say what I came for the purpose of saying?"

"Will you be very discreet, Signor?" she said, putting a slender rosy finger up to her smiling
lips; "and never, never let it be known to any human being, that I ever received you save in
the fullest of full dress, as would become me in receiving the honour of a visit from your
Excellency!"

"Not a syllable, not a whisper!" replied the Marchese, taking her tone, and putting his own
finger on his lips. "And then, I may say, Signora, that in Ravenna a visit at any hour from
old Lamberto di Castelmare would do your fair name no harm!" he added, taking the arm-chair
by the side of the sofa to which she pointed, as she resumed her former place and attitude
on the couch.

"I dare say it might not, if I am to judge of his position in the society from your own, Signor
Marchese. But I did not know, that there was any old Signor Lamberto di Castelmare. I supposed
you were the head of the family, your uncle, perhaps?" said Bianca, very innocently.

"I have no uncle, Signora! I am the oldest Castelmare extant," said the Marchese.

"And you call yourself old Lamberto, Marchese! Why I would wager my pearl necklace,--and that
is the most valuable possession I have-- against a daisy chain, that you are not ten years
older than I am. I shall be called old Bianca Lalli next, at that rate!"

"And how many years, since you are ready to wager on it,--have gone to the bringing the face
and form I see before me to their matchless perfection?" said the Marchese.

"Who was ever before so prettily asked how old she was?" said Bianca, suffering her large blue
eyes to rest fully on the Marchese's face for an instant, and then dropping them with an air
of conscious embarrassment. "Well, a frank question deserves--or at least shall have--a frank
answer! I shall never see my twenty-fourth birthday again?"

"And you judge me then to be thirty-four!" said the Marchese, looking at her laughingly.

"Certainly I don't think any room full of strangers would judge you to be more than that,"
replied Bianca, looking at him seriously.

"Ta!--ta!--ta! Add fifteen years to that; and you will be nearer the mark. So you see, bella
Signora, that you may safely trust yourself to a tete-a-tete with me under any circumstances."

"Ta!--ta!--ta!" said Bianca, repeating his own phrase, with a merry laugh in her eyes, and
shaking her rich auburn curls at him. "It seems impossible, utterly incredible! But I am very
glad if it is so,--very glad. There is nothing so intolerable to me as the young lads who come
buzzing about one circumstanced as I am, and whom it is as difficult to drive away as it is
to drive away flies in summer. There is no trusting to them; they would compromise a poor girl
as soon as look at her, if she was fool enough to let them. And I have had lessons in the necessity
of caution, Signor Marchese. I have been cruelly treated,--very cruelly calumniated!" And Bianca,
knowing, it is to be supposed, that, if it is not always the case that "Beauty's tear is lovelier
than her smile," as the poet says, yet that it is a phase of beauty often more potent over
a male heart than the sunniest smile, raised a corner of her daintily-embroidered handkerchief
to her eyes.

The Marchese was an old man of the world,--as the cynical phrase goes,--and of what a world?--an
old Italian Marchese of the beginning of the nineteenth century,--a period when, if crime was
less rife than in former and stronger ages, morality was never at a lower ebb. He was a man
whose musical tastes had made him conversant with the Divas of the stage, and familiar with
the interior aspects of Italian theatrical life;--one, too, whom circumstances had caused to
become specially well acquainted with the antecedent history of this particular Diva now stretched
on the sofa before him. Yet none the less for all this did "beauty's tear," enhanced by beauty's
laced pocket-handkerchief, exercise on him its usual glamour.

Calumniated!--that lovely creature of matchless purity before him,-- matchless purity! so white
was her throat; so round and slender her waist; so daintily snowy her muslin drapery. Calumny!
Of course it was calumny. And how he could have poignarded the calumniators, and taken the
poor, fluttering, persecuted Diva to his bosom. The desire to execute that latter portion of
retributive and poetical justice was making itself felt stronger and stronger within him every
minute, as he sat beside the sofa exposed to the full force of the magnetic poison-current
which was intoxicating him.

"Signora--" he said, putting his hand out to take hers, which she readily gave him. His own
hand shook, and he paused in his speech, overcome for a moment by a sort of dizziness and a
sudden rush of the blood to his brow and eyes,--a veritable electric shock caused by the contact
of her hand with his.

"Signora," he continued, recovering himself, "no such slander--no such insults will follow
you here; none such shall follow you here. Lamberto di Castelmare can, at least in Ravenna,
promise you that much. Nor if they did follow you, would such stories here be believed"

"Generous! Just!" murmured Bianca behind the laced pocket- handkerchief in a broken voice,
just loud enough to reach the neighbouring ear of the Marchese, while she suffered her slender
fingers to press the hand which held hers just perceptibly before withdrawing it from him;--"just,"
she continued in a louder tone, taking her handkerchief from her face, and raising her shoulders
a little from the sofa, so as to turn more fully towards him, while her eyes fired point blank
into his a broadside of uncontrollable gratitude and admiration;--"just, because generous and
noble. Oh, Signor Marchese, those who have never known what it is to suffer from a slanderous
tongue can never know the delight--the sweet consolation of meeting with such generous appreciation."

The poor Diva was quite overcome by her own emotion; and, sinking back on the cushions of the
sofa, again lifted her handkerchief to her face, while one or two half-stifled sobs showed
how deeply she had been moved;--and how perfect was the form and hue of the beautiful half-covered
bosom which this emotion caused to heave beneath its gauzy veil.

Just at that minute there came, to the infinite disgust of the Marchese, a discreet tap at
the door.

Bianca rapidly passed her fingers over the tresses above her forehead, resettled her pose on
the sofa, and gave the Marchese a meaning look of common intelligence and mutual confidence,
which set forth, as well as a volume could have done, and established the fact that there existed
thenceforward a bond of union and a fellowship between her and him, such as shut them in together,
and shut out in the cold all the rest of Ravenna, and then said "Passi," and admitted, as she
knew very well, no more startling an interrupter than Gigia.

The well-trained servant said nothing and looked at nothing; but silently handed to her mistress
two cards.

"Of course you told these gentlemen that I was not visible, Gigia?"

"Diamine! Signora; of course I should not have let any gentleman pass this morning more than
any other morning of the year if you had not specially told me to admit the Marchese Lamberto
at any hour he might come," said Gigia with a niaise simplicity, as she left the room.

Bianca covered her face with her pretty hands and shook a gale of perfume from her sunny locks,
as she exclaimed, sotto voce,--

"Oh, the stupidity of these servants! Signor Marchese," she continued, looking up shyly, but
with a gay laugh in her eyes, "what must you not imagine?--not, at all events, I hope, that
I contemplated the possibility of receiving you in this dishabille? But I will do as other
criminals do;--confess when they are found out. I did think," she continued, casting down her
eyes, and hesitating with the most charmingly becoming and naive confusion; "I had some little
hope--no; I don't mean that;--I did not mean to put that into my confession;--it did occur
to me as possible," she went on, hanging her pretty head, and playing nervously with the folds
of her dress in a manner which had the accidental effect of causing it to leave uncovered an
additional inch of silk stocking--"it did occur to me as possible that the Marchese Lamberto
might come to me sooner than the time named for the meeting with the impresario;--for the sake
of giving me any hints that his perfect knowledge of the subject might suggest; and I fully
intended to be dressed and ready to receive him if be should show me any such condescending
kindness- -and so told my maid to make an exception in his case to my invariable rule! And
then the minutes slipped away; and I fell into a reverie, thinking--thinking--thinking; and
then, all of a sudden, before I knew that there was any one in the room--if you think of the
devil--and I suppose it is equally true if you think of an angel;--but there, again, that was
not intended to be any part of my confession. I think I shall give up confession, at all events
to you, Signor Marchese, for the future. But now I have confessed myself this time, and told
the whole, whole truth--may I hope for absolution?"

There was an adorable mixture of candour, and gaiety of heart, and child-like simplicity in
the beautiful features as she looked up into his face when she finished speaking, together
with an expression of appealing confidence and almost tenderness in the eyes that achieved
the final and complete subjugation of the Marchese.

Again he took her hand, and again his head swam round with the violence of the emotion caused
by the contact of palm with palm, as he said,

"Ah, Signora, if I were equally candid perhaps it would turn out that it was for me to confess,
and for you to grant absolution--if you could. Do you think you could?" he said, raising her
hand to his lips as he said the words.

"Ha! Signor Marchese, that would quite depend upon the nature of the confession. When I have
heard it I will do my best to be an indulgent confessor. But, however curious I may be to hear
you in the confessional, it must not be now; or I shall really not be ready to receive Signor
Stadione. Heavens! It wants only ten minutes to one now. I must run and dress as quickly as
I possibly can. To think that almost an hour should have run away since you came here; and
it seems like ten minutes. May I beg your indulgence, Signor Marchese, if I ask you to wait
for me while I dress? I will be as quick as I possibly can."

"On no account hurry yourself, Signora. It is my fault for having detained you. And if I had
to wait ten hours instead of one, would not the one I have passed be cheaply purchased? Never
mind Stadione; I will explain to him that you are dressing--"

"And that you have been made to wait some time already by my abominable unpunctuality," said
Bianca, holding up one fore-finger and giving him a look of mutual intelligence.

"Of course--of course. A chi lo dite!" returned the Marchese, giving her once more his hand
to help her to rise from the sofa.

As she did so she put into his hand, without any word of comment, but with a slight smile and
a little momentary raising of her eyebrows, the two cards that Gigia had, a little while before,
handed to her. They bore the names of the Barone Manutoli and the Marchese Ludovico Castelmare;
and Bianca handed them to the Marchese with a matter-of-course air that seemed to say that,
in the position which the Marchese Lamberto and she had assumed towards each other, it was
natural and proper that he should see who had called on her.

He merely nodded as he looked at them; and then, for the second time, kissing the tips of the
fingers he still held, as she got up from her couch, he bowed low as she passed him to go towards
the bedroom; and she, before quitting the room, made a sweeping curtsey, half playfully, and
then kissed the tops of her fingers to him as she vanished into the inner room.

CHAPTER V

After-thoughts

The Marchese Lamberto and Signor Ercole Stadione quitted the house in which the prima donna
had her lodging, together, when the business matters, which they had come thither to arrange,
had been settled.

"A wonderful woman, Signor Marchese," said the little impresario, trotting along with short
steps by the side of the Marchese, and rising on his toes in a springy manner, that made his
walk resemble that of a cock-sparrow. "Truly a wonderful woman. I have seen and known a many
in my day, Signor Marchese, as you are well aware, sir; but such an one as that, such an out-and-outer,
I never saw before."

"She is evidently a lady, whose education and manners entitle her to be treated with all respect,"
replied the Marchese, more drily, the little man thought, than his great patron was usually
in the habit of addressing him, and somewhat quickening his stride at the same time, as if
he wanted to walk away from the impresario.

"Most undoubtedly, Signor Marchese, and every sort of respectful treatment she shall have.
There shall be a stove and a new looking- glass put into her dressing-room this very day. If
she don't draw, say Ercole Stadione knows nothing about it. A very singular thing it is, Signor
Marchese,--and you must have observed it, Signor, as well as I,--there's some women whose singing,
let 'em sing as well as they will, is the smallest part of their value in filling a theatre.
There's no saying what it is, but they draw--Lord bless you, as a bit of salt will draw the
cattle after it! And this Lalli is one of that sort. I know 'em, when I see 'em. Won't she
draw, that's all!" said the little man again, rubbing his hands together, and chuckling with
infinite glee.

The Marchese Lamberto would have been at a loss probably if he had been required to state clearly
why he felt angry and annoyed with the impresario that morning, and thought him a bore, and
wished to be quit of him. But such was the case. And presently, when the well- skilled and
business-like little man began to canvass the capabilities of certain parts in his repertorio,
for the most advantageous showing off of the personal advantages of the new acquisition, the
Marchese could stand it no longer, but replied hastily:

"Well, well. All these matters had better be submitted to the lady herself. I think, Signor
Ercole, that I will say good-morning now. You are going to the theatre, and I am waited for
at the palazzo."

And the Marchese did return to the palazzo, though nobody was specially waiting for him there.
On the contrary, he told the servant in the hall to admit nobody, and when he reached his library,
he shut the door and bolted it. And then he threw himself into an easy chair to think.

The first thing that his thinking made clear and certain to him was that something had happened,
or was happening to him, which had never happened to him before,--something respecting the
exact nature of which all his previous experience afforded him no light.

In love! He had never been in love; but he knew, with some tolerable accuracy, what was generally
understood by the phrase. He had read the poets, who describe the passion under sufficiently
various phases; and he had heard plenty of lovers' talk among a people who are not wont to
suffer, or to exult, or to be happy in silence. Was he in love with this woman? Did he, in
his heart, love her--in his heart, as he was there in the solitude of his own room, at liberty
and at leisure to examine his heart upon the subject. A heavy frown settled on the Marchese
Lamberto's brow, and an unpleasant change came over his face, as he proceeded with the task
of asking his heart this question. There rose up feelings and promptings within him, which
almost drove him to the fierce assertion to himself that he hated this woman, who was thus
occupying his thoughts against his will.

What had become of all that warm chivalry of feeling that had urged him, with all perfect earnestness
of sincerity, to declare that no breath of calumny or insult should come near her, beneath
the aegis that he could and would throw over her? Where was it gone? All clean gone. He knew,
with tolerable accuracy, the story of the former life of this woman. They were facts which
he knew,--certainly knew. But they had all vanished from his mind,--had been as though they
were not,--while he had sat there by her sofa, looking at her and listening to her,--had all
vanished, even as the ardent chivalry, which had then been caused by some sorcery to spring
up in his mind, had vanished now.

It was passing strange.

That he was very sorely tempted--as he had never before in his life been, tempted--to make
love to this actress,--as it is called,--to make love to her after the fashion, not so much
of those poetical descriptions which have been referred to, as after the fashion of those prosaic
settings-forth of the passion, which were familiar enough to his ears, was clearly recognizable
by him. He knew very certainly that he desired that.

And was what he desired so much out of his reach? Surely all that had happened, all that he
had seen, all that he had heard at the interview with Bianca that morning, was not calculated
to lead him to think so. And why should it be? It would be all very much according to the ordinary
current of events in such matters. He was a bachelor. He was wealthy. He was the most prominent
noble of the city. He was brought specially into contact with the lady by his theatrical connection
and habitudes. His patronage and protection were by far the most valuable that could be offered
to her in Ravenna. The Diva herself was--such as Divas of her sort and time were wont to be.
It would seem to be all very easy and straight- forward. What was the worst penalty wont to
follow from such peccadilloes to persons in his position? The loss of a little money,--of a
good deal of money perhaps. But he had plenty and to spare.

But none of these considerations availed to smooth the frown from the Marchese's brow, or to
make the future at all seem clear before him.

In the first place to make this singer his mistress, simple and little objectionable as such
a step might seem to most men of his country, and rank, and period, and freedom from ties,
was not an easy matter, or an agreeable prospect to the Marchese, on purely social considerations.
He had placed himself on a special pedestal, from which such a liaison would involve a fall.
And such a fall, or the danger of such a fall, was very dreadful to the Marchese. There was
the Cardinal; there were the good nuns, whose affairs he managed, and who looked on him as
a saint on earth. Worst of all there was his nephew. How preach to him (terribly necessary
as such preaching might be) under such circumstances?

To be sure, there was no need of doing whatever he might do in such sort that the whole town
should be his confidant. He had as good opportunities for secrecy as could be desired. Theatrical
business and his recognized connection with it was an abundant and unsuspected excuse for as
much conversation with the lady,--as many interviews as he might wish. It seemed safe enough
upon the whole.

And yet these considerations did not avail to take the frown from the Marchese's brow, or bring
his perplexed self-examination to an end. The very evident disposition of the lady to be kind
did not avail to please him. Instead of being pleased and triumphant at the probable prospect
of so enviable a bonne fortune, he was displeased, unhappy, irritated, angry--angry with himself
and with the sorceress who had thrown this spell on him. How was it? By what charm had she
bewitched him so? Already he was impatient, longing to be back again in her presence. And yet
he was angry with her,--doubted whether he did not rather hate her than love her.

At last he started from his chair and swore that he would retain the mastery over his own self;
that he would think no more of the abominable woman,--see her no more!

Taking his hat he rushed out of the house, with an instinctive desire for bodily movement as
a means of stilling the tossing fever that was raging within him; walked through the streets
at such an unusual pace, that the people turned round to look after him as he passed; walked
by the door of the house in the Via di Santa Eufemia in which Paolina lived,--saw Ludovico
coming from it, who was surprised indeed at thus seeing his uncle; and more surprised still
to find, that the Marchese passed him without seeming to notice him,--walked out into the country,
and returned only at supper-time, tired and worn out; and then, when the supper was over, and
Ludovico had gone out to the Circolo as usual, after pacing his room, and swearing to himself
at every turn, that he would see the creature no more,--slunk out of his own palazzo, feeling
afraid of being seen by his own servants, and wandered to her lodging!

And what were Bianca's meditations, when the business visit of the impresario was over, and
he and the Marchese left her room together?

First and foremost, the Marchese Lamberto was in love with her; and that not as dozens of youngsters
in many a city had been; but madly, desperately, in love with her. That fact admitted of no
doubt whatever! It was strange, curious enough, that she should have succeeded so brilliantly,
so entirely, and so immediately in spite of all the signs and tokens which had led her not
small experience to expect so entirely different a result. Clearly the still larger experience
of old Quinto Lalli had been more far-sighted. His view of the matter had been the true one!

But still, how far was his view of the question a correct one? What was the success, which
had been very unmistakably so far achieved, in reality worth? It was very plain that this Marchese
Lamberto had been caught, captivated, fascinated! But what then? There was no doubt at all
that he would very willingly suffer her to add him to the list of her previous admirers and
lovers. It never entered into the Diva's head to conceive, after the very unmistakable testimony
she had received of the evident admiration of the Marchese, that very grave difficulties, objections,
and hesitations would, on his side, stand in the way of his accepting any such position. She
doubted not that this conquest was perfectly within her reach; and that there would be no difficulty
at all in drawing large supplies from the Castelmare wealth towards recruiting the needs of
the Lalli exchequer.

But this, as has been explained, was not what Bianca wanted. "Major rerum sibi nascitur ordo!"
She was intent on playing a higher and greater game. Was it likely she would be able so to
fix the harpoon she had successfully thrown in the very vitals of the prey, so to make this
man feel that she was absolutely essential to his happiness, as to induce him to marry her?
That was the question! And Bianca did not delude herself into imagining that anything that
had passed between herself and the Marchese that morning entitled her to consider the battle
which should lead to that victory as even begun.

The Diva did not conceal from herself the greatness and arduous nature of the task before her.
She knew what a Marchese of mature age, of noble lineage, and of unblemished reputation, was;
and she knew what she was. But she did not appreciate those extra difficulties in the case,
which arose from the special social position, and still more from the special character and
temperament of the man,--and these were the greatest difficulties of all!

On the whole, she was sanguine; and what was perhaps more to the purpose, old Quinto, when
they talked the matter over together, and the general result of the morning interview had been
reported to him, was sanguine too.

"Depend upon it, bambina mia," he said, "it is the best game--the real game. Young fry will
rise to the bait more readily; but they also wriggle off the hook much more easily. It is the
old fish who, when he has it once fixed in his gills, cannot get rid of it, struggle as he
may. You play your game well,--neither relaxing, nor yet too much in a hurry, and I prophesy
that I shall live to see you Marchesa di Castelmare."

"And many a year afterwards, I hope, papa mio. And you may depend on my teaching my husband
to behave like a good son-in-law," said Bianca, with a bright laugh.

"As for the nephew," continued Quinto, "I can understand that it would be more agreeable to
make your attack on him--"

"I don't know that at all, papa mio," interrupted Bianca. "You may laugh, if you will, and
think that I am making a virtue of necessity--and small blame to me if I were--but the truth
is, I do like the Marchese. I like him better, as far as I can yet tell, than any man I ever
knew. Yes! you may make grimaces, and look as wicked as you please! But it is true. And, if
you ever do see me Marchesa di Castelmare, you will see that I shall make him a very good,
ay, and a very fond, wife."

"Who could doubt it, Signora, that has the advantage of knowing you as well as I do?" said
the old man, with a mocking bow.

"You may sneer as much as you like, Quinto; but you understand nothing about it. The Marchese
is a man any woman might love. You call him an old man? I tell you he is younger for a man
than I am for a woman, God help me! It isn't only years that make people old."

"That's true, bambina mia, poveretta. And I am sure I have nothing to say against it if you
can fancy this Marchese a gay and handsome young cavalier."

"Handsome he is, as far as that goes. I swear he is the handsomest man I have seen here! His
nephew is good-looking enough, but he is not to be compared to his uncle either in face or person."

"Well, whether you have succeeded or not in making the Marchese in love with you, cara mia,
I begin to think that you have succeeded already in falling in love with him," said Quinto,
looking at her with raised eyebrows.

Bianca remained silent awhile, nodding her head up and down in a sort of reverie, and then
said, rousing herself with a shake of her flowing curls as she looked up, "No; not quite that.
But I won't say that it is impossible that if I am to make him love me, I may come to love
him in the doing of it. You see, amico mio, it is something new. It is not the old weary mill-round.
He did not come to me with the set purpose of making love to me, as all those young fellows
have done, and do, just because they have nothing else to amuse them; because it's the fashion;
because it's a feather in their caps; because it's the thing to have a prima donna for their
mistress! If the Marchese has fallen, or falls, in love with me, he does so because he cannot
help himself, he does it in despite of himself; and that flatters a woman, Quinto. Well, we
shall see," she added, after another pause: "one thing, at all events. I swear that there shall
be nothing between me and the Marchese--of--the old sort."

"It is wisely said, bambina mia. That is the road which must lead, if any can, to the winning
of your game."

CHAPTER VI

At the Circolo

There was, at all events, one man at Ravenna who was entirely pleased and satisfied with the
famous prima donna in all respects: and this was Signor Ercole Stadione.

The Carnival campaign of La Lalli had been thus far brilliantly successful, and the Carnival
was now about half over. She "drew," as the little impresario had prophesied she would, to
his heart's content. It was many a year since there had been so successful a season at the
theatre. Each part she sang in was a more brilliant success than the last; and the public enthusiasm
was such as enthusiasm on such subjects never is save in Italy.

In every respect, too, her ways and behaviour had been unexceptional. Her attention was never
distracted from her business by the visits of young men behind the scenes--a torment which,
during the reigns of other Divas, had often driven the poor little impresario, who dared not
get rid of such intruders as he would have liked to do, almost wild. Bianca would permit no
visits of the kind. She had never behaved herself to any of the young men in such sort as to
cause any of those rivalries and jealousies which are sometimes apt to manifest themselves
in hostile partisanship, when the Diva is on the boards--another fruitful source of trouble
to much-tried impresarios.

She had walked circumspectly and prudently in all respects--a most moral and highly satisfactory
Diva.

She was understood to receive no visitors at home--at least, none of a compromising kind. The
Marchese Lamberto was often with her: of course, naturally! He was well known to be always
a sort of second amateur manager: neither the theatre nor little Ercole Stadione could go on
without him. And then the Marchese Lamberto was--the Marchese Lamberto! If he had chosen to
sit by the bedside of any prima donna in Italy night after night, it would only have been supposed
that he was giving her possets for the improvement of her voice.

Occasionally, also, she would receive the visits of the Marchese Ludovico; evidently by reason
of the unavoidable intimacy of his uncle in the house. And Ludovico reported to them all at
the Circolo that she was a most charming woman indeed--full of talent, merry as a young girl,
companionable, and fond of society, but wholly devoted to her art, and quite inaccessible in
the way of love-making. He assured the jeunesse doree of Ravenna that they lost nothing in
any such point of view by their exclusion from her intimacy, for that all their enterprises
in that line would be quite thrown away.

The Conte Leandro Lombardoni, indeed, always carried about with him in his breast-pocket, a
carefully preserved little letter on pink notepaper, which he gave the world to understand
was part of a correspondence carried on between him (reconciled as he was to the bel sesso)
and the Diva; and had more than once contrived to be seen hanging about the door of her house
at hours when honest Divas, as well as mortals, ought to be in bed and asleep. But nobody believed
him, or imagined that anything save a bad cold was at all likely to result from his vigils
beneath the cold stars. He showed, indeed, with many mysterious precautions against the remainder
of the letter being seen, that the little pink sheet of notepaper did indeed bear the signature
of "Bianca Lalli." But when one of the ingenuous youth picked his pocket of it, it was found
to be a very coldly courteous acknowledgment of a copy of verses, which the Diva promised to
read as soon as her avocations would permit her to do so!

"Any way," said the discomfited poet, "that is more than any of you others have got. And it's
not so small a matter, when you come to think of it!"

"Per Bacco, no! Leandro is in the right of it!" said the young Conte Beppo Farini; "a small
matter to find somebody who promises even to read his verses! I should think not, indeed! Where
will you find another to do as much?"

"Riconciliato col bel sesso! I should think you were, indeed!" cried another; "she absolutely
thanks you for sending her your rhymes! Nobody ever did as much as that before, Leandro mio!
No wonder you haunt the street before her door!"

"I don't haunt the street before her door. Envy, Jealousy, ye green- eyed and loathsome monsters,
how miserably small and mean can ye make the hearts of men!" said Leandro, lifting up hands
and eyes.

"Bravo, Leandro, bravo! get upon the table, man!" cried Farini.

"Get home to bed, rather. It is too bad, because no human being will read his poetry, he takes
to spouting it!" said the other.

"Let us look what she says," cried Ludovico di Castelmare; putting out his hand to take the
little note. "Upon my word she writes a pretty hand. It is a very neatly expressed note."

"Oh, you can see that much, can you?" returned Leandro. "I should think it was too! Is there
any one of you here can show such a note from any woman, let her be who she may? She says she
will read the poem I have been good enough to send her--good enough to send her, mark that!--as
soon as she can find time to do so! What could she say more, I should like to know? Of course
she is occupied. It stands to reason. But she will read my poem; and then you will see!"

"Ay, then we shall see our little Leandro duly appreciated at last!" said the Barone Manutoli.
"As soon as the Diva has found time to read the poem there will come another little pink note,
adorably perfumed: he will be summoned to her august presence, and installed as her poet in
ordinary, and who knows what else besides,--her Magnus Apollo? It is a pity there are not eight
other prime donne to make up the sacred number. Then we should see our Leandro in his true
position and vocation. Give me a sheet of paper, and I will show you a new presentation of
Apollo and the Muses. They are all presenting him with pasticcerie and bonbons. He has one
hand on the lyre, and the other on his stomach, for the homage of the goddesses has made him
somewhat sick; his eyes, you observe, are cast heavenwards, partly by reason of poetic inspiration,
and partly by reason of nausea!"

"Bravo! bravo, Manutoli!" cried a chorus of voices.

"Envy and jealousy, envy and jealousy, all envy and jealousy. It is pitiable to see what they
can reduce men to," cried the poet, foaming at the mouth.

"Never mind them, Leandro mio--never mind them. It is the universal penalty of true merit,
you know; the same thing all the world over," said Ludovico.

"But, I say, Ludovico," rejoined Manutoli, "in the meantime, till our Leandro's poem shall
have been read and duly appreciated, you are the only one who has been admitted to the privacy
of La Lalli. What is your report to us Gentiles of the outer court? Is she really so unapproachable?
And is she as adorable behind the scenes as before them?"

"Well, you ought to be able to answer that question yourself, Manutoli," replied Ludovico;
"you were with lo zio and me that day when we went out to meet her; I am sure you had a fair
look at her then."

"A look? Yes; and I looked all I could look. I saw a charming face, younger and fresher looking
than might have been expected from the length of time she has been on the boards,--a very pretty
figure, as far as her travelling-dress would show it one; and the loveliest foot and ankle
I ever saw in my life. I could swear to that again at any time. Don't you remember how she
stood with her foot down on the step, when she was getting out of the carriage. I thought at
the time that she knew what she was about very well."

"Of course she did. Do you think they don't always know very well, every one of them, off the
stage or on the stage?" said Farini.

"But I want to know what sort of body, she is?" returned Manutoli; "I don't need to be told
that she is a very lovely woman; but of what sort is she? Why does she keep us all at a distance?
What is her game?"

"Upon my life I don't know," answered Ludovico, "unless it's a devouring passion for Leandro.
I protest I have no reason to think she cares a button for anything but her own art. I never
tried; but it's my impression that if I had ever whispered a word in her ear I should have
got a flea in my own for my pains."

"You don't want to make us believe that you have been seeing her frequently all this time,--passing
hours with her a quattro occhi, and have never made love to her, Ludovico?" said Farini.

"No; I don't want to make you believe don't care a straw whether you, believe it or it is the
fact for all that," returned Ludovico.

"Ludovico has enough on his hands in quarter. What would they say about it in the Via Santa
Eufemia if he were to bow down to new and strange goddesses?" said Manutoli.

"That, if you please, Manutoli, we will not discuss either now or at any other time," said
Ludovico, with a look that showed he was in earnest. "But, as for La Diva Bianca, I have no
objection to tell all I know to anybody. My belief is that she is as correct and proper, and
all that sort of thing, as a Vestal."

"Che!"

"Che!"

"Che!"

A chorus of protestations of incredulity in every tone of the gamut met the monstrous assertion.

"What, after all we heard of her doings at Milan--after all the histories of her goddess-ship
in every city of Italy?" said Manutoli.

"Well, what did we hear of her doings at Milan? The fact is, we know nothing about the matter;
and as to her previous history--of course I don't suppose that she is, and always has been,
a Diana; but it may be that she has come to the time when she has thought it well to turn over
a new leaf. Such times do come to such women; but all I know is, that I firmly believe that
since she has been here she has lived the life of a nun," said Ludovico, in the simple tone
of a man who is stating a truth which he has no interest in causing his hearers to credit or
discredit.

"Per Bacco, it's queer!" said Farini, slapping his hand against his thigh. "I have heard,"
he continued in the tone of one speaking of some strange and almost incredible monstrosity,--"I
have heard of such women taking a turn to devozione. It's not that with La Lalli, is it?"

"Che! Nothing of the sort; she is as full of frolic as a kitten--up to any fun. And she is
a very clever woman, too, let me tell you--a good deal of education. If you will put making
love to her out of your head, I never knew a woman who was pleasanter company," said Ludovico.

"And you really mean that you have never tried to make love to her in any way?" reiterated
Manutoli.

"I do mean it, upon my soul; but I don't care a rap whether you believe it or not," rejoined
Ludovico.

"And you are with her very frequently?" persisted Manutoli.

"Yes, I have seen a good deal of her altogether. I like her; and I fancy she likes me to go
there; she seems to wish me to come. Perhaps it is a novelty to her to have a man about her
who doesn't try to make love to her."

"The Marchese Lamberto sees her a good deal?"

"Yes; naturally. If it had not been for that I should probably never have made acquaintance
with her at all. Lo zio is continually there. He ought to have been an impresario. In fact,
he is the real impresario. Little Ercole only does what my uncle tells him. I don't believe
she ever sings a note on the stage that he has not heard and approved beforehand."

"Suppose he is the dark horse; suppose she is his mistress all this time; and he takes care
to keep her all to himself," said Manutoli.

"What, lo zio. Bah! I should have thought that you knew him better than that, Manutoli. To
him a woman is a voice, and nothing else. If the same sounds could be got out of a flute or
a fiddle he would like it much better, and think it far more convenient. I don't think my uncle
Lamberto ever knew whether a woman was pretty or plain. I wish to heaven he would get caught
for once in his life; it would suit my book very well. He would have less leisure to think
of other things."

The fact was that the Marchese had, in truth, had less leisure to think of those other things
from which Ludovico desired that his attention should be drawn away. His visits to the Via
Santa Eufemia had been more frequent than ever; his visits to the Marchesa Anna Lanfredi and
her niece rarer than ever. And he had received neither lectures nor remonstrances for a long
time past. In truth, the Marchese had his mind too full of other matters to think much of his
nephew's affairs or doings. And, besides that, there was a quite new and hitherto unknown feeling
in the heart of the Marchese Lamberto which made him shrink from any such encounter with his
nephew, as remonstrances respecting his conduct with regard to Paolina would have occasioned;--a
feeling which made it seem to him that he was the watched instead of the watcher; that suggested
to him the fear that the first word he might utter upon the subject would be met by references
to doings of his own.

An utterly unfounded fear. But so it is that conscience doth make cowards of us all.

CHAPTER VII

Extremes Meet

The Marchese was uneasy in the presence of his nephew. But the fact was that he was uneasy
and unhappy altogether, and at all times. From being one of the most placidly cheerful and
contented of men, he was becoming nervous, anxious, and restless. People began to remark that
the Marchese was beginning to look older. They had said for years past that he had not grown
a day older in the last ten years. But this winter there was a change in him!

It did not occur to anybody to connect any change that was observable either in the Marchese's
manner or in his appearance, with the frequency of his visits to the quartiere inhabited by
the prima donna and Signor Quinto Lalli, in the Strada di Porta Sisi. The ordinary habits of
the Marchese, and his functions as a patron of the theatre and amateur impresario were so well
known and understood, that it seemed perfectly natural to all Ravenna that he should be very
frequently with the prima donna. And on the other hand, the almost monastic regularity of his
life, and his character of long standing in such respects, would have made the notion that
he had any idea of flirting with the singer appear utterly absurd and inadmissible to every
man, woman, or child in the city, if it had ever come into anybody's head.

The fact was, however, that the Marchese was much oftener in the Strada di Porta Sisi than
anybody guessed. Besides the morning visits, which were patent to all the world, who chose
to take heed of them, the Marchese very frequently spent those evenings there, when the "Diva"
did not sing; slinking out of the Palazzo Castelmare, and taking all sorts of precautions to
prevent any human being--nephew, servants, friends, or strangers--from guessing the secret
of these nocturnal walks.

Such precautions were very needless; if anybody had noticed the Marchese Lamberto passing under
the shadow of the eaves in any part of the city after nightfall, it would only have been supposed
that he was bound on some mission of beneficence, or good work of some sort! And if even it
had become known to a few persons given to prying into what did not concern them, that the
Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare was not more immaculate in his conduct than his neighbours,
the only result would have been a few jests which he would have never heard, and a few sly
smiles which be would have never seen.

But the Marchese could not look at the matter in this light. He felt as if his fall from the
social eminence on which he stood would have been as a moral earthquake in Ravenna. The idea
that such jests and such smiles could exist, however unseen and unheard, would have been intolerable
to him. And the Marchese was, accordingly, a miserable man.

A miserable man, and he could not help himself! Each time that he quitted the siren, the chain
that bound him was drawn more tightly around him. At each visit he drank deep draughts of the
philtre, that was poisoning the fountains of his life. Again and again he had made a violent
struggle to throw off the enchantment and be free. And again and again the effort had been
too great for his strength, and he had returned like the scorched moth, which comes back again
and again to the fatal brightness, till it perishes in it.

In his hours of solitary self-examination he loathed and mocked himself to scorn! He, Lamberto
di Castelmare, to risk and to feel humiliation, and to suffer for the love of a woman, whose
light affections had been given to so many! He, who had been smiled on by many a high-born
beauty in vain! Love! did he love her? Again and again he told himself that what he felt for
her was far more akin to hate. He marvelled; he could not comprehend himself! He was often
inclined to believe that the old tales of philtres and of witchery were not all false, and
that he was in truth bewitched; and he struggled angrily against the spell, and at such times
hated the beauty that had tangled him in it!

And in all this time Bianca had not yet ventured to show clearly her real game. Nor had it
yet occurred to the Marchese that such a preposterous thought as that he could marry her could
have entered into her mind. Yet it was clear to him that he made no progress towards making
her his own upon any other terms. The alternations between beckoning him on and warding him
off had been managed with such skill, that they appeared to be the result of the Diva's internal
struggle with her own inclinations. What was he to understand by it? If she had been,--had
always been--of unblemished character! But it was not so; he knew better!

That her conduct at Ravenna had been correct was undeniable. Still, even with regard to that,
the Marchese was not spared the pangs of jealousy, in addition to all the rest. Ludovico continued
to frequent the house in the Strada di Porta Sisi. It seemed, as he had said at the Circolo,
as if Bianca wished him to come there. In fact he had spoken to the young men at the Circolo
with perfect truth in all respects as to his relations with the Diva. There had never been
any word of love-making or even flirting between them. Yet, in a sort of way, she seemed to
wish to be agreeable to him and to attract him. But she never made any secret of his visits
from the Marchese, although it was unmistakable enough that it was disagreeable to him to hear
of them.

Had he been free from the spell himself he would have rather rejoiced that his nephew had met
with an attraction, which would be likely to have the effect of making him faithless to Paolina.
As it was, it was an additional source of irritation to the Marchese,-- another drop of gall
in his cup, to hear it constantly mentioned by Bianca in the most innocent way in the world,
that Ludovico had been here with her, or there with her, or passing the morning with her!

It was drawing towards the end of the Carnival, which the late fall of Easter had made rather
a long one that year, when, on one Saturday night, Bianca sat by her own fireside, expecting
a visit from the Marchese. She doubted not that he would come, though no special appointment
on the subject had been made between them. There were few "off evenings" now, that he did not
spend with her. Saturday in most of the cities of Italy is, or was, an off night at the theatre,
being the vigil of the Sunday feast-day. The ecclesiastical proprieties are less attended to
now in matters theatrical, as in other matters in Italy. But Saturday used, in ante-revolutionary
times, to be an evening on which actors and actresses and their friends could always reckon
for a holiday.

Bianca was sitting, exquisitely dressed, it need hardly be said, in a style which combined
with inimitable skill all the requirements of the most strict propriety with perfect adaptation
to the objects of showing off every beauty of face, hair, hand, figure, foot to the utmost,
and attracting her expected visitor as irresistibly as possible.

Quinto Lalli had been sent to enjoy himself at the Cafe, with stringent directions not to return
before he should have ascertained that the Marchese had left the house, let the hour be as
late as it might.

Bianca meditated deeply, while she waited her lover's coming.

Her lover! yes, there was no doubt about that. Bianca had felt perfectly assured that she was
justified in considering the Marchese as such on that first morning, when he had come to her
an hour in advance of the time appointed for his visit in company with the impresario. But
it was high time that some better understanding of the footing on which they stood as regarded
each other should be arrived at.

Hitherto no direct proposals of any kind had been made to her by the Marchese. He was not good
at any such work. Any one of those distinguished sons of paternal governments, who had constituted
the material of Bianca's experiences of that division of mankind, would have long since said
what he wanted, and have very clearly indicated the terms on which he was willing to become
the fortunate possessor of the coveted article. And Bianca would have perfectly well known
how, under the present circumstances, to answer any such proposals, as she had known under
the other circumstances of past days. But the Marchese made no proposals. What he wished, indeed,
was abundantly clear to her. But his mode of making it clear rendered the task of dealing with
him a somewhat difficult one.

Partially, Bianca understood the nature of the case. She was partly aware why the Marchese
was slow to say that which so many, whom she had known, had made so little difficulty of saying.
She understood that, whatever his years might be, he was a novice at that business. She comprehended
that he was, in many respects, a younger man than many a coulisse-frequenting youth whom she
had known. But she was far from conceiving any true notion of the Marchese's state of mind
on the subject. She was very far from imagining that he looked with disgust and with terror
at the position which she conceived him to be but too ready to accept to-morrow, if only he
knew how to ask for it, or if it could be offered to him without his asking. She little guessed
that his feeling towards her oscillated between the maddest desire and the fiercest hatred;
that reveries, filled with pictured imaginings and fevered recollections of her beauty, alternated
with the most violent efforts to cleanse his mind and imagination of the thought of her.

She understood nothing of all this, and it was impossible that she should understand it. In
truth, she was innocent of any conduct which could have justified such sentiments. Why should
he hate her? It was true that she sought to attract him,--true that she was scheming to lead
him to a point at which he might find it so impossible to give her up, that, being well convinced
that he could have her on no other terms, he might offer her marriage. But was there anything
worse in that than men had been treated "since summer first was leafy?" How many men had married
women in her position-- women less capable of doing credit to the position to which they were
raised than she was? How many men had been treated in such matters very much worse than she
had any thought of treating him? She fully proposed to make him a good and true wife, and fully
thought that she should do so. She was not deceiving him in any way. She made the best of her
past life--naturally; but was it to be for a moment supposed that such a man as the Marchese
could, or did, imagine that she, Bianca Lalli, whose career, for the last eight years, was
known to all Italy, was in the position of a young contessa just taken from her convent?

It is abundantly clear that there were difficulties in the way of the desirable understanding
being arrived at, greater than either the lady was aware of, or than might usually be expected
to attend similar negotiations.

Bianca waited without impatience the coming of the Marchese. She was a study for an artist
as she lay perfectly still on her sofa, turning the minutes of expectation to profit by arranging
in her mind her plan of attack in the coming battle; for she was thoroughly determined that
that evening should not pass without some progress towards the understanding having been accomplished.

One lamp on the table alone lighted the small but comfortable- looking room; but the flame
was leaping cheerfully among the logs on the hearth, and the sofa was so placed that the fitful
light from the fire glanced in a thousand capricious reflections on the Diva's auburn hair
and rich satin dress. It was black of the most lustrous quality, and fitted her person with
a perfection that showed the shape of the bust, and the lithe suppleness of the slender waist
to the utmost advantage. The dress was made low on the superb shoulders--the dazzling whiteness
of which, as seen contrasted with the black satin, was now covered with a slight silk scarlet
shawl,-- a most artistic completion of the harmonious colouring of the picture, which yet was
not so fixed in its position as to be prevented from falling from the snowy slopes. it veiled
at the smallest movement of them.

Presently the now well-known step and well-known tap at the door were heard, and the Diva,
without stirring a hair's-breadth from her charmingly-chosen attitude, spoke, in a silver voice,
the "Passi" which admitted her visitor.

CHAPTER VIII

The Diva shows her Cards

"Ah, Signor Marchese," she said, with a sweet, but somewhat sad, smile, extending to him a
long, white, slender, nervous-looking, ungloved hand, but not otherwise moving from her position.
"Ah, Signor Marchese, then I am not to be disappointed this evening? I was beginning almost
to fear that the fates were against me."

He advanced to the head of the sofa and took her hand, and held it awhile, while he continued
to stand there looking down from behind her shoulder on the beautiful form as it lay there
beneath his gaze- -on the parting of the rich golden hair; on the snowy forehead; on the still
whiter neck; on the gentle heaving of the bosom beneath its light veil of scarlet silk; on
the tapering waist; on the exquisitely-formed feet peeping in their black satin bottines from
beneath the extremity of her dress! It was all perfect: and the Marchese held the soft warm
hand that served as a conductor to the stream of magnetic poison that seemed to flood his whole
being as he gazed.

For an instant all the room seemed to swim round with him. The blood rushed to his brow. He
shut his eyes, and a nervous crispation caused the fingers of his hands to close themselves
with such force, that the grasp of that which held her little palm hurt her.

"Ah, my hand! you hurt my hand!" she said. "You don't know how you squeezed it, you are so
strong. You don't know the quantity of force you put out!"

"Pardon--a thousand pardons, Signora! I am such a clumsy clown! Have I really hurt you, Bianca?"

"Not to the death, Signor," she said, with a charming smile, and holding up to him the injured
member, shaking it as she let it dangle from the slender wrist. "But see! it is really all
blushing red from the ardour of your hand's embrace!"

"Poor little hand!--indeed, it is!" said the Marchese, taking it gently and tenderly between
both of his; then, suddenly throwing himself on his knees by the side of the sofa, while he
still held it, he said, "And how can the great cruel hand that did the harm make fit amends?"

"Ah, Signor Marchese, it might find the way to do that, if it were so disposed. It would not
be so far to seek. But you are seeking in the wrong direction," she continued, drawing herself
back from him on the sofa, as he, leaning forward against it, had brought himself so near to
her, that the back of the hand in which he held hers touched her waist. "You are seeking amiss.
It is not so that any remedy can be found; and--pray rise, Signor, and take your usual chair.
This must not be,--I am sure you would not willingly give me pain, Marchese, and you are paining
me. Pray leave the sofa."

She had drawn herself back away from him as far as the breadth of the sofa would allow, yet
without withdrawing her hand from him; and she looked at him certainly more in sorrow than
in anger,--looked into his face earnestly with grave, sad eyes, and heaved a long sigh as he,
after pressing the hurt hand to his lips, rose from his knees and took the chair she had pointed
to.

"Pain you, Bianca?" he said, as he sat down; "why should I pain you? You do me no more than
justice when you say that I would not do so willingly; but have you thought how much pain you
inflict on me by thus keeping me at a distance from you? I think you must know that. Is there
aught to offend you in anything that I have done, or said, or hoped, or wished?"

"I think, Signor Marchese," she said, dropping her large eyes beneath their long fringes, and
looking adorably lovely as she did so, "I am afraid that what you have wished is--what some
might deem offensive to a lady."

And as she spoke she looked out furtively from behind her eyelashes.

"Bianca, is that reasonable?" he said, in a tone of remonstrance. "Diamine, let us talk common
sense; we are not children. Have you always found such wishes as mine offensive in others?"

"Yes, always--always offensive, always cruel," she said, with extreme energy; "but--can you
not understand, Signor Marchese,--can you not conceive that what from one man passes and makes
no mark, and leaves no sting, may from another--What cared I what all the empty-headed young
fops who came in my way could say or do; they were nothing to me. But--I did not expect pain
from the Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare. I--I thought--I hoped--I--I flattered myself--fool,
idiot fool that I have been!" she exclaimed, bursting into violent sobs, and hiding her face
with her hands.

The Marchese was startled and utterly taken aback for a minute or two. He was genuinely at
a loss to interpret the cause or the meaning of the lady's emotion. His puzzled embarrassment
did not, however, prevent him from seeing that she looked, if possible, more fascinatingly
beautiful in her grief and her tears than he had ever before seen her. And, again, despite
what she had said, he knelt down by the side of the sofa, and gently removing her hands from
before her face, murmured in her ear,--

"Bianca, what is it--what is moving you so? Don't you know that you are dear to me;--that I
would--Don't you know that I would do anything to be agreeable to you rather than give you
any sorrow or pain? What is there within my power that I would not do? Bianca,-- let me tell
you--let me speak the truth--I cannot keep it in my own heart any longer--I love you! You have
come to be all that I care for in the world. Bianca, do you hear me? For your love I would
sacrifice all,--everything in the world; I die without it; I must have it--I must! You have
been loved before; but never as I love you--never, never! And, Bianca, I--I--Bianca, you are
my first love- -my only love. Never, till I saw you, did I care to look on a woman for a second
time; I never felt love. But, when I saw you--the first time--the first hour--Bianca, I must
have your love or die; I thirst--I hunger for it. Since I have known you all my nature is changed;
all my old life is flat and unmeaning, and without interest to me. I care for none of the things
I used to care for; all--all has melted and slipped away from me, and nothing remains but one
great devouring rage and passion--my love for you!"

He had spoken like a torrent, which, for a long time dammed up, at last becomes too powerful
for restraint, and bursts forth, overthrowing all obstacles with its headlong flood.

Bianca turned her face away from him towards the back of the sofa; but she slowly, and with
an uncertain intermittent movement, drew his hand over to her lips, and pressed it against them.

A light came into the Marchese Lamberto's eyes;--a gleam almost, one would have said, rather
fierce than fond, as he felt the pressure of her lips; and a shock as from an electric spark
ran through all his body, making him quiver from head to heel.

"Bianca, Bianca! You are mine--you are mine!" he cried, pantingly, with his mouth close to
her ear, and encircling her waist, as he spoke, with the hand which she had relinquished after
she had kissed it in the manner that had been described.

But she sprang away from him, pushing him from her, by putting her flat hand against his forehead,
with her face still turned towards the back of the sofa, away from him.

"No, no, no!" she cried, violently; "it cannot be, not so--not so! I cannot--I cannot!"

"Bianca," he cried, starting to his feet as if he had been stung; "what does this mean? What
am I to understand? What is it you wish? You know my position. I tell you that there is no
sacrifice that I am not willing to make. I am rich; name what you would wish."

"Spare me--spare me, I deserve all; but spare me! I deserve to suffer, but not at your band,"
she cried, in words interrupted by her sobs.

"Spare you what, Bianca? In truth, I do not understand you," said the Marchese, genuinely mystified.

"Do you not understand?" she said, turning round on the sofa, so as to face him, and looking
into his face with those great appealing eyes suffused with tears; "do you not understand?
Can you not comprehend? A woman would understand, I think; but I suppose men feel these things
differently."

"Upon my honour, Bianca, I do not know what you mean. Every word I have spoken to you has been
spoken from the very depth of my heart. I am ready to--"

"Hush, hush, Marchese! No more of that; I could not bear it," she said, with a great sigh that
seemed as if it would burst her bosom; "it is very--very painful to me; but I must endeavour
to bring your heart to understand me,--it must be your heart, Lamber--your heart, Signor Marchese;
for one does not arrive at the understanding of such things with the head. See, now, I will
put myself in the place I deserve to occupy--in the dust at your feet! You may trample on me,
if you will. I say I have deserved the shame and the misery I am now suffering. I deserve them
because I have no right to resent the- -the--the proposals which you--wish to make to me. I
have suffered much from calumny and evil tongues--much from unhappy circumstances and evil
surroundings. Yet it may be that I-have--more right to-- resent--what--I have heard from you
than you imagine. But let that pass. You know--or think you know--that I have accepted from
others that which I have said I cannot accept from you; and you cannot imagine why this should
be so. Oh, Marchese, does your heart lend you no aid to the understanding of it? What were
those men,--those empty creatures whose gold could not repay the disgust occasioned by their
presence, what were they to me? Did they love--pretend even to love--me? Did I love them? Love!
Alas, alas, alas! Ah, Marchese, a poor girl exposed to the world, as I have been from my cradle
upwards, has to suffer much that might well move the pity of a generous heart; but it is nothing--nothing--nothing
to the tragedy of the misery, the shame, the remorse that comes upon her when at last the day
shall come that her heart speaks and shows to her the awful chasm--the immeasurable gulf that
separates such--I cannot, Lamber--pardon, I don't know what I am saying; I cannot go on--I
cannot put it into words! Do not you--cannot you understand the difference?"

"I do understand, Bianca mia; povera anima sofferente--I do understand. Do you imagine that
I would judge you harshly--severely? I know too well all that you would say; I know the difficulties,
the impossibilities of your position. Do you think that I cannot make allowances for all the
fatalities attending on such a combination of circumstances? And, trust me, the difference
between what has been, and what I so earnestly hope may be now, is greater,--I feel it to be
greater, not less than you can feel it to be. Truly there is nothing in common between the
all-devouring passion which consumes me, and--such love-vows as you have spoken of. Do I not
understand the difference. And remember, Bianca, dearest, that the protection I offer you would
be the means of placing you out of the reach,--far out of the reach of any such disgusts,--such
suffering for the future."

Bianca let her head fall on her bosom, and covered her face with her hands, and remained silent
for some moments. Then, lifting her face slowly, and shaking her head, she sighed deeply as
she looked with a wistful earnest glance into his eyes; she said,--

"You are good,--you are,--very good and kind to me; perhaps it might have been better for my
happiness if you had been less so. But bear with me yet a little, Signor Marchese. Sit down
there,--there where I can see your face,"--pointing, as she spoke, to a spot exactly in face
of the sofa,--"and let me see if I can explain myself to you. It is difficult; it is very difficult.
A woman, as I said, would understand it at once; but men--are so different. You have told me,
Signor Marchese, that you love me; that you never loved before; that I am the first woman who
has ever moved your heart. Eh, bene, Signor Marchese! If I, having heard those protestations,
were to confess that--that it was with me even as with you,"--she dropped her eyes and sighed
as she made the confession;--"that I, too--that you have taught me now for the first time what
it is to love,--though I might speak it less eloquently than you have done, the words would
be equally true,--equally true, Signor," she repeated, slowly nodding her head. "And when I
have confessed that it is so," she continued, speaking more rapidly, "can you wonder--can you
not understand that it is impossible to me--that it would be a horror unspeakable to--to renew
with the object of a true love--the first--the first, as God sees my heart--the degradation
that has left nothing but bitterness and humiliation behind it? Shall the name of Lamberto
di Castelmare be written in my memory in the hateful list of those who have been to me the
occasion of remorse, of self-condemnation, of bitterness immeasurable? Never, never, never!
Come what may there shall be one pure place in my heart; one unsoiled spot in my life; one
ever-dear remembrance unlinked with sorrow and with shame; one memory which, however sad, shall
not be humiliating."

She put her handkerchief to her eyes as she ceased speaking, and appeared to be entirely overcome
by her emotion.

The Marchese rose from his chair in a state of hardly less agitation. He walked across the
room;--returned to the sofa, and seemed for a moment as if he were going to take her hand;
then turned away, and stood on the hearth-rug with his back to the fire. He was much moved,
puzzled, pained, disappointed,--goaded and lashed more violently than ever by the furies of
passion; more than ever wishing that he had never seen the beautiful creature lying there before
him, and more than ever writhing in mind under the consciousness that to give her up was beyond
his power.

At length he again stepped up to the side of the sofa and took her hand.

She started; and plucked it from him.

"Go, Signor Marchese--go, and leave me. It would perhaps be better so for both of us. I am
not used to show to anybody the very inmost secrets of my heart, as I have been doing to you,--I
know not why. Forget what I have said. Go, and forget me;--forget the poor comedian to whom
your goodness, your nobleness, and--your love-- seemed for a passing minute to open a blessed
glimpse of a heaven upon earth; but never--never again propose to me to associate the name
of Lamberto di Castelmare with names that I would--oh, so fain- -forget!"

Still the Marchese had not realized the nature of the position or seen the only outlet from
the cul-de-sac into which he had been driven. It involved too monstrous an impossibility to
seem to him to be an outlet at all. What was the real meaning of all this? Then suddenly an
in-rushing suspicion flashed across his mind like a blasting lightning brand, bringing with
it a sharp pang, as of a dagger stab in the heart. What was the meaning of all these protestations
of admiration and affection, coupled with a denial of all that his passion drove him there
in search of? Did it perchance mean that this woman, so terrible in the power of her beauty,
so dangerously irresistible, would fain have the protection which his position could give her,
the supplies which might be drawn from his purse, while her love--such love as he wanted from
her--would be given to a younger rival?

Suddenly he asked her, "When was the Marchese Ludovico here last?"

"The Marchese Ludovico?" said Bianca, carelessly; "oh, he is often here. When last? Let me
see: he was here this morning. As good and noble a gentleman as any in Italy he is, too. He
is worthy to bear your name, Marchese, though it is only a poor girl like me that says it."

"He seems to have won your good will, anyhow," said the Marchese, frowning heavily. "What answer,
I wonder, would he get if he were to speak to you as I spoke just now?"

"He would never speak so, Signor Marchese; he would know that, whatever might have been the
case in past years, alas! it would be useless or worse to speak so now. I do not say, indeed,
that--I have a sincere regard for the Marchese Ludovico. This much you may be very sure of,
Marchese, that the feelings which you have surprised me into confessing would make it quite
impossible for me to listen to any such words from the Marchese Ludovico. But, if ever the
Marchese Ludovico were to say any word in my ear,--it would not be," continued Bianca, dropping
her voice and speaking as if more to herself than to him--"it would not be to offer me what
his uncle was offering me just now."

And now it flashed upon the Marchese for the first time what the real drift of Bianca's words
and conduct had been. She wanted to be Marchesa di Castelmare. And the meaning of her last
words, with their reticences and their half-uttered expressions spoken out at length might,
he thought, be read thus: If you, Marchese Lamberto, do not make me Marchesa di Castelmare,
your nephew will be ready enough to do so. The scandal, the wrong done to the family name,
the chatter of all the tongues in Ravenna will be none the less. The matter would be, indeed,
worse instead of better. For it would involve the grave injury that would be done to the Lady
Violante, and the destruction of all the hopes built upon that alliance. All this seemed to
be revealed to him as by a lightning flash. But the pang of jealousy, which had stung his heart,
still remained the foremost and most prominent occupation of his mind.

"If you imagine, Bianca," he said after a while, "that my nephew would, or could, however much
he might wish to do so, make any other kind of proposal to you, you are labouring under a delusion.
I speak in all sincerity of heart"

"And I have spoken to you, God knows, with all sincerity, Signor Marchese. I have spoken as
I have never before spoken to any human being. I have opened my heart to you to the very bottom
of it. But the effort of doing so has been a painful one. It has terribly overset me; I feel
like a wrung-out rag; and would fain rest. You will not be offended if I ask you to leave me
now. It is getting late, too; and I expect my father home every instant. Good-night, Signor
Marchese. Forgive me if I have said aught that I should not have said; if I have in any way
offended you. I think you know how far the wish to do so is from my heart. Good-night."

"Good-night, Bianca," said the Marchese, taking the hand she held out to him, and retaining
it in his own for some instants, despite his intention of specially abstaining from any demonstration
of the kind--"Good-night, Bianca. We shall meet to-morrow morning."

"Yes, on business," said Bianca, looking up into his face with a sad smile. "Signor Ercole
said he should be here at midday."

And then the Marchese left her, and, carefully shunning the more frequented parts of the city,
returned to his own home.

CHAPTER IX

One Struggle more

The Marchese reached the Palazzo Castelmare unobserved by any one, save old Quinto Lalli, who
had been for some time past watching the door of his adopted daughter from a neighbouring corner,
in order to ascertain when he might go home to his bed without infringing the order that had
been given him.

"And what do you think of it now, papa mio?" said the Diva, when she had very faithfully, though
summarily, recounted the scene which had just passed, to her old friend and counsellor.

"Well, I see no reason to despair of the result," said Quinto. "You did not expect him to jump
at the idea of making you Marchesa di Castelmare, I suppose? Of course he was a little staggered;
and, probably, his own notion at this moment is, that he would rather never see your face again,
than dream of such a thing. Ma, ci vuol pazienza! My notion is, that you will have him nibbling
at the hook again before long. That little hint about the nephew was masterly. Depend upon
it that will do its work."

"But, Quinto, I did not say a word to him that was not true--hardly a word. I do like him better,
by an hundred times, than any other man I ever knew; and if I succeed, you see if I do not
make him a good wife; I swear I will! As for Signor Ludovico, that is all trash and nonsense.
He belongs to his Venetian, body and soul: and he has enough to think of, poor boy, in scheming
to get out of the marriage they have planned for him."

"What! he wants to marry the Venetian, does he?" asked Quinto.

"Yes; they have engaged themselves to each other; she would not hear of anything else."

"Lord bless me! how moral and respectable the world is growing. I suppose Cupid himself will
be attended by a gentleman in cassock and bands before long, and Mars will make Venus an honest
woman, as the phrase goes. Well, I am not sorry I had my day in the old time. It would be rare
fun, though, if these grand Signori, the uncle and the nephew, were both to be hooked in the
same fashion at the same time."

"There is nothing against the character of the Venetian of any sort," said Bianca, with a sigh.

"Ta, ta, ta! I'd back your chance of the uncle against her chance of the nephew, any day of
the week."

"Ludovico is solemnly engaged to her."

"I'd hold to my bet, all the same for that; and now let's get to bed, you have to sing to-morrow
night."

"Yes, and I'm regularly tired out; good-night."

The Marchese Lamberto was probably hardly less in need of rest, when he reached the Palazzo
Castelmare. But he did not equally feel that it was within his reach. He shut himself into
his room; and throwing himself into an easy chair, with one hand pressed to his fevered brow,
strove to think; set himself to think out the possibilities of the present, and the prospects
of the future, as far as the blinding volcano bursts of passion, which ever and anon threatened
to sweep all power of thought away, would permit him to do so.

So this was the meaning of all the difficulties, which Bianca had made. She had absolutely
conceived the idea of his marrying her. Heavens and earth! Was she mad? But, at all events,
if this notion had been the cause of all her fighting off of his advances for the last month
past, it was not necessary to attribute her conduct to any preference for some more favoured
lover; she had assured him that she loved him--loved him as she had never loved another. And,
gracious heaven, how lovely she looked as she said it!

He pressed his hands before his eyes, and saw again in fancy the beautiful vision; gloated
on the eloquent movement of her person in the earnestness of her confession; looked again into
those large appealing honest eyes, which seemed to be so incapable of lending their voucher
to a lie. Surely it could not be that all those protestations and assurances were false,--mere
comedy got up for the purpose of deluding him. That she was worldlily anxious to secure so
great a prize as that which she was trying for was natural enough-- was matter of course. But
surely, surely there was genuine affection in that glance. Was it not likely to be genuine,--that
feeling that she could not be to him what she had been to others? It must have been abundantly
clear to her that had she chosen to accept from him what he had offered her, she might have
amply satisfied any mercenary views, the most exorbitant. Therefore her views and her feelings
were of a different order.

And then the thought of being so loved by such a creature--of being really loved for himself--loved
as she had never loved before, made for the moment all other thought impossible to him: he
started from his chair, and paced the room with rapid disordered strides. What was all the
world to the ecstasy of such a love? All--all that he had hitherto lived for, was it not flat,
stale, poor, puerile, in comparison to it? Why not leave all, and seize a happiness so infinitely
greater than any he had ever known or imagined? Why not marry her, and be hers for ever, as
she was anxious to be his? Nobles of higher rank than his had done as much before. Why not?

What would they all say and think? All his world, that he had lived among, and lived for, from
his cradle upwards: the Cardinal, his sister, his nephew, Violante? The whole society which
had looked up to him as some one altogether above the sphere of human frailties and follies:
how could he face them? What say to them? Why face them at all? Why not leave all, and make
a new world for himself and the one dear companion of it? Marry her, and take her safe away
from all her past, and from all his. Why not?

But would she consent to that? Would that be her idea of a marriage with the Marchese di Castelmare?
Was it not likely that she would prefer to be Marchesa di Castelmare in the Palazzo Castelmare,--in
Ravenna, where--ha!--where Ludovico was, for whom she had so much regard? who was so frequently
with her. That poor Violante! Of course he knew that there could be no love between her and
his nephew. Ludovico had promised that that marriage should be made. Ay, marry the uncle, to
be the nephew's mistress with all convenience! Such things had often been; there was nothing
new in the arrangement--nothing original in the idea--why, the very stage was full of such
examples: he to be the old duped husband of the farce; he saw it all.

And as these thoughts also suggested themselves to his mind, his heart seemed as though it
were clutched by a hand of ice, while his brow throbbed and his head burned with the pulsing blood.

He threw himself on to his chair again, and tore his hair with rage and anguish; and all those
vivid and palpitating love-representations which passion had but now painted on the retina
of his eye, were reproduced by jealousy with the difference that Ludovico instead of himself
was the actor in them.

It was maddening; his brain seemed to reel; a cold sweat broke out all over him. The fear dashed
across his mind that he should really lose his reason.

Was there, he thought to himself, as the terror of this made him shudder--was there that night
in all Ravenna so miserable a being as himself? And that miserable man, cowering there in the
restlessness of his agony, was the Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare; he whose whole life had
been one placid scene of happiness, prosperity, and content. Never had he known a passion strong
enough and forbidden enough to cause him a pang or a sleepless hour till now. Had not his life
been happy? What did he want with more? Ah, if he could but blot out for ever all that the
last month had brought with it. If he could but be again as he had been before this woman had
cast her sorcery on him. Ah, would to God that his eyes had never seen her!

Was it yet too late? Could he not even now tear her from his mind, shut his eyes to the recollection
of her, so command his imagination that it should never again present the image of her to his
fancy?

And thereupon forthwith uncommanded fancy was busy with every detail of the beauties that had
so made him their slave. The line of the neck and shoulder which he had looked down on as he
stood at the sofa head; all the white ivory from the fresh innocent rosy little ear to the
swell of the curves about the bosom; the intoxicating perfume from the heavy tresses of the
hair; the lithe slender waist, round and yielding; the slight nervous hands, the touch of whose
fingers fired the blood, as a match fires gunpowder; the exquisite feet; and, oh God! that
face, whose every feature, as he last looked on it, was harmonized in an expression of love.

Quite still he sate for some minutes, conscious of nothing save the pictures which memory was
passing before his eye. Then suddenly, with a bound, he sprang from his chair, and away from
it, and beat his head against the opposite wall of the large room.

"Fool, fool; enslaved, besotted idiot! I am lost, spelled; the victim of sorcery I cannot fight
against. What am I to do, what am I to do? Surely I can keep my steps from going near her.
If I were to swear now that I will never set eyes on her more?"

And then he recollected that it was impossible for him even to seek that means of safety without
giving rise to all kinds of observations, and wonder, and speculation in the city. He was to
see the prima donna on the following day. His habits in such matters, well known to all the
town, brought him into frequent contact with Bianca, as with other ladies who had been similarly
engaged in Ravenna. What would be thought, or guessed, or said, if he were suddenly to refuse
to hold any further communication with her?

And would he not thus be simply leaving the coast all free to his nephew? To be sure. There,
there, he could see it all. And that was the worst hell of all. Anything, anything was preferable
to that. Come what would that should never, never, never be. Rather--rather anything. He gnashed
his teeth, and clenched his hand; and a sudden agony of hatred for both Bianca and his nephew
seemed to steal like a snake into his heart, and maddened him.

And thus the miserable man passed the greater part of the night in useless strugglings with
the bonds that bound him.

It was near morning before he crept, still sleepless, but utterly worn out, to his bed.

He did sleep, exhausted as he was, after awhile; but it was only to see again in dreams all
that he had so bitterly wished that he had never seen at all. Sometimes he was himself by Bianca's
side, licensed to revel to the full in her every charm. And then the dream would change. It
was Ludovico he saw in her white arms; and he started from his fevered sleep bathed in perspiration
and quivering in every limb.

The next morning he was, in truth, quite ill enough to have furnished a very sufficient and
unsuspected excuse for not going to meet the impresario at Bianca's house according to appointment.
He thought at first that he would do so. But as the time drew near, he dragged himself from
his bed, haggard, fevered, and looking very ill, and crawled to the appointed meeting.

BOOK IV

The last Days of the Carnival

CHAPTER I

In the Cardinal's Chapel

Paolina was industriously pursuing her task in the chapel of the Cardinal's palace. Ludovico
was not so frequently with her there as he had been while she was at work in San Vitale. But
there were evident reasons why this was necessarily the case. The chapel in question is a private
one, and is accessible only by passing through a portion of the Cardinal's residence. At San
Vitale Ludovico needed to take nobody into his confidence, when he climbed to Paolina's scaffolding
to be by her side while she worked, save the old sacristan. But to have joined her at her work
in the Cardinal's palace, he must have knocked at the door of the residence, and told the servants
what he wanted.

And that would have been obviously inconvenient, even without mentioning the fact that the
Lady Violante, to whom the gentleman ought to have been addressing himself, passed much of
her time at the palace, and might very possibly have been met by him there.

It was true that, ever since the ball at the Castelmare palazzo, on the second day of the year,
Ludovico had felt pretty nearly sure that Violante was as desirous of escaping from the marriage
which had been arranged as he was himself. But it did not at all follow that it would be an
easy matter to break it off. Of course it was not to be expected that Violante herself could
take any active step towards refusing to fulfil the promise that her family had made for her.
That would be for him to do. And except as regarded his intercourse with the lady, and her
personal feelings, the task of doing so was hardly rendered any the easier by the knowledge
that he would be consulting her wishes as well as his own.

It would hardly, therefore, have done in any way for him to have been visiting the young artist
in the Cardinal Legate's chapel.

The intercourse, however, between Ludovico and Paolina was much pleasanter and more unrestrained
than it had been before that explanation, which had ensued between them. He was a frequent
visitor at the house in the Via di Sta. Eufemia in the evening; and the happy hours were passed
by them on the perfectly understood footing of mutual betrothal.

And Ludovico was perfectly honest and sincere in all that he said to Paolina. He said nothing
to her that he did not equally say to himself. And if his conduct under the circumstances was
not exactly what a father or brother of Paolina might have desired it to be, the fault arose
from the indecision of character, which belonged to a weak man accustomed to self-indulgence.
There was difficulty and annoyance before him; and instead of meeting it, as a strong man would
have done, he turned from it, and was content to put off the evil day, contenting himself with
the enjoyment of that which was passing. He marvelled somewhat at the ease, with which he was
permitted to pass evening after evening with his mistress,--at the absence of surveillance,
of which he was conscious,--and at the silence of his uncle as to both his visits to Via di
Sta. Eufemia, and his no visits to the Lady Violante. But he troubled himself little to account
for this, or to question the reason of the goods the gods provided him. It was not in his character
to do so. Paolina, on her side, was, upon the whole, trustful and contented. Yet there had
been moments at which she had suffered a passing pang from little gossipings which had been,
perhaps injudiciously, repeated to her by Orsola Steno. Of course the great prima donna, the
celebrated Lalli, who was blessing Ravenna by her presence, was often talked of in the Via
di Sta. Eufemia, as she was in every other house in the city. That was quite a matter of course.
And then Orsola would speak of the strict conduct of the lady; of the fact that no one of the
young nobles of the place was permitted to visit her--except, indeed, the young Marchese Ludovico;
and how people did say that half-a-dozen would be safer company than one; and that the young
Marchese was finishing the sowing of his wild oats before becoming a married man by a flirtation
with one of the most celebrated beauties of Italy.

There was very little cause for this gossip beyond what the reader is aware of. Still, upon
the whole, it might have been better if Ludovico had seen less of the fascinating singer. He
had given cause enough for spiteful tongues to make mischief if they could do so; and it may
probably be supposed that he was not insensible to the fascinations of Bianca--perhaps not
to the glory of the fact that he was the only young man admitted to her society, and that he
had occasionally done that which, being repeated, might not unnaturally give umbrage to Paolina.

It was now within ten days or so of the end of Carnival; and, while almost everybody else was
amusing themselves in some way or other, Paolina stuck close to her work in the chapel, intent
on her silent and solitary task, while, from time to time, the voices of revellers in the streets
would reach her in her seclusion.

But all her hours of work there had not passed in utter solitude.

The Contessa Violante was in the habit of spending much of her time in the palace of her great-uncle
the Cardinal Legate. It presented, among other advantages, that of being pretty well the only
place in which she could escape for awhile from the companionship of the Signora Assunta Fagiani,
her duenna. Certainly, it would not have been consistent with that lady's conception of her
duty to allow her charge to visit any other house whatever in the city, without the protection
of her companionship, but the palace of a Cardinal Legate--and that Legate her great-uncle.
Besides that, her great- aunt, the Cardinal's sister, was also often at her brother's residence;
and, having this facility close at hand, Violante was wont very frequently to avail herself
of the privacy, comfort, and warmth of her uncle's chapel for the morning's devotions, which
she never missed.

One morning she found a small portable scaffold or estrade of deals standing in one corner
of the chapel; and, on inquiring for what purpose it had been placed there, she was told that
it was to enable an artist to make a copy of some of the mosaics on the vault of the little
apartment. She learned further that the artist in question was a young Venetian lady: that
she was a protegee of the Marchese Lamberto; and that the permission to execute the copies
in question, and to have that scaffolding placed there, had been obtained by him.

Then Violante knew right well who the Venetian artist was. The worthy Assunta Fagiani had taken
care that all the gossip of Ravenna which connected this girl's name with that of Ludovico
di Castelmare should reach her ears. And she was glad of the easy opportunity which thus offered
itself to her of gratifying her natural curiosity respecting the stranger--the girl who could
win that love which had been promised to her; but which she had been unable to inspire.

This Paolina Foscarelli--she well knew her name--was, in some sense, her rival. Ludovico di
Castelmare was bidden to love her, the Contessa Violante, and instead of doing so, had given
his love, as she had been assured, to this Venetian. She knew, indeed, quite well that had
the stranger never come near Ravenna, Ludovico would not have loved her the more. She did not
love Ludovico. She was anxious to be quit of the engagement it had been proposed to make between
them; and it might be very likely that this girl might be serviceable to her, rather than otherwise,
in helping to bring about such a consummation.

Nevertheless, there was a certain amount of bitterness--such bitterness, more akin to self-depreciation,
as could find place in the gentle heart of Violante--in the thought of what might have been;
in the thought that she was irrevocably excluded from that which it had been so easy for this
poor stranger artist to attain; and, above all, there was a strong curiosity to see the beauty
which had accomplished this; to hear the voice which had been able to charm; and, further,
in her own interest, to ascertain, if that should be possible, whether the tie which she had
been told existed between this girl and the man who had been assigned to her for a husband,
was, or was not, of a nature likely to lead to a marriage between them.

At first sight this would have seemed impossible to the aristocratic notions of the Cardinal
Legate's niece. But Assunta Fagiani, whose object had been simply to convince Violante that
no union between herself and Ludovico would ever take place, despite all appearances to the
contrary, had given her to understand that it was whispered as a thing not impossible--such
was Ludovico's infatuation--that he might even go the length of making such an alliance.

One morning, soon after the commencement of her work in the chapel, whither she had been escorted
on her first going thither by the Marchese Lamberto himself in person, in accordance with his
promise, Violante, on entering the chapel, saw that the little scaffold had been pulled out
from its corner and placed immediately under one of the medallion portraits of the Apostles,
on the vault of the building. She looked up, and perceiving the artist above her at her work,
paused, hesitating before kneeling at the footstool in front of the altar.

In an instant a light step tripped down the steps of the wooden erection, and a little figure,
clad in a brown holland frock, which wrapped it from head to foot, stood by her side.

Paolina knew very well who the lady that had entered the chapel was: and, as may be easily
imagined, she too was not without her share of curiosity.

"Do I disturb you, Signorina?" said Paolina, in a sweet, gentle voice. "If you would prefer
it, I will wait till you have finished your prayer. I can kneel here too the while."

Violante looked at the girlish face, bright not only with the elements of material beauty,
but with the animation of intelligence and the informing expression of talent. One would have
said that nothing could well be less becoming than such a long shapeless wrapper as that which
the artist wore. There was the band at the waist, which showed that the figure was slight and
slender; but, for the rest, a less ornamental costume could not well be imagined. Nevertheless,
Violante perfectly well perceived and understood at a glance that this girl had what she had
not--a something by virtue of which it was possible for her to win a man's love, while for
herself it was, or seemed to her appreciation of herself, impossible.

"Oh, no, Signorina," answered Violante, gently, "the knowledge that you were painting up there
would not suffice to distract my thoughts. But will you not let me look at your work? It must
be very difficult to copy these strange old wall-paintings. May I climb up? I know your friend
the Marchese Lamberto well. Do you know who I am?"

"Pray, come up, Signorina, if you have any curiosity. Oh, yes, I know your ladyship. I saw
you once in the Cardinal's carriage. You are his niece, the Contessa Violante," replied Paolina,
blushing a little at the name of the Marchese Lamberto, only because, though assuredly not
the rose, he lived close to it.

So the two girls climbed the steps of the estrade together.

"How came you to know the Marchese Lamberto?" asked Violante, after they had matured their
acquaintanceship by a little talk about the subject of Paolina's work.

"Only because the Englishman, who employed me to copy these mosaics, gave me a letter to him.
He seems to be very highly esteemed."

"More so than any other man in all Ravenna,--except my uncle the Cardinal, I suppose I ought
to say; he is a most excellent man in all ways. But you know his nephew also, the Marchese
Ludovico? non e vero?" said Violante, looking down on the ground, while a pale blush came over
her white cheeks.

"Yes," replied Paolina, flushing crimson, and similarly looking down, but stealing a side-glance
under her eyelashes at her companion,--"yes; I became acquainted with him also in the same
manner--at least, on the same occasion; and, in truth, I have seen more of him than of his
uncle, for the Marchese Lamberto is always so busy, and he commissioned his nephew to do all
that he could to assist us, when we were first settling ourselves here."

"And you found him kind, too; as kind as his uncle?" said Violante, stealing a sidelong glance
at Paolina.

"Yes, indeed, Signorina," said she, feeling not a little embarrassment.

"Paolina--you see I know your name, and I think it such a pretty one--Paolina," said the Contessa
Violante, yielding to a sudden impulse, and taking the hand of the blushing girl, who kept
her eyes fixed on the ground, "shall we be friends, and speak openly to each other? I should
like to."

"Oh, Signorina! so should I, so much. There is nothing I should like so much--almost nothing,"
replied Paolina, looking up into her face, with her own still crimson.

"Tell me, then, if you ever heard my name mentioned in connection with that of the Marchese
Ludovico?" said Violante, looking with a rather sad and subdued, but yet arch, smile into Paolina's
eyes.

"Yes, Signorina, I have so heard," said Paolina, raising her head with a proud movement, and
looking, with well-opened eyes and clear brow, into Violante's face as she spoke. "I have heard
that it was intended by both your families that you and the Marchese Ludovico should be married."

"Yes; everybody in Ravenna, I believe, expects to see such a marriage before long; do you?
We are to be friends, you know, and speak frankly to each other; do you expect it, Paolina?"
asked Violante, still holding her hand, and looking with a smile, half shrewd, half sad, into
her face.

Paolina remained silent a minute or two, again dropping her clear honest eyes to the ground.
Then raising them again, she said in an almost whispered voice, but looking straight at her
companion,

"No, Signorina, I do not expect that; for he has promised to marry me."

"Ah--h! it is a relief to hear you say so. My dear Paolina, I am so glad," said the elder girl,
putting a hand on each of Paolina's shoulders, and kissing her on the forehead--"I am so glad;
much for your own sake, somewhat, too, for his, and much for my own sake. For, Paolina, I could
not marry Ludovico. If he asked me to do so, it would be only done in obedience to the will
of his uncle. He does not--no, 'tis no fault of yours, my child--never has loved me."

"Signora, when first I--allowed him to teach me to love him, I knew nothing of any duty that
he owed elsewhere. And when I did know it I determined, even if it should break my heart, to
refuse any such love as should have been stolen from a wife," said Paolina.

"That was the part of a good and honest girl. And for me, I have to thank you for it. Paolina,
I hope you may be happy. We shall often meet here, shall we not?"

"Not often here, Signora. My task here is not a long one; and I hope by the end of Carnival
to have finished it, so that I may go to St. Apollinare, outside the town, where I have to
make several copies. It is very desirable not to go there later; because when the warm weather
comes it becomes so unhealthy there."

"Yes; but we have some days yet before the end of the Carnival; and till then you will be at
work every day here?"

"Si, Signora; I hope so."

"Then I hope we shall have several more opportunities of seeing each other. And now I must
not keep you from your work any longer. Shall we be friends?"

"Oh, Signorina; it is too good of you to ask me, a poor artist. And when--it would be my greatest
pride to have such a friend."

And then the girls kissed and parted: Violante to kneel for her daily devotions, at the footstool
before the altar; and Paolina to continue her copying. And after that they had frequent meetings
in the little chapel, and learned to become fast friends.

The Carnival was now drawing near its end; and the city had been promised that before the time
of cakes and ale should be over, and that of sackcloth and ashes should begin, the divine prima
donna should appear in one more new part. And, after much deliberation and debate, it had been
decided that this should be Bellini's masterpiece, La Sonnambula. She was to sing it on one
night only-- the last Sunday of the Carnival; and the attraction on that night was proportionably
great. The Sonnambula, then in the first blush of its immense popularity, had never yet been
heard in Ravenna. It was one of the favourite parts of the Diva; and all the city was on the
tiptoe of expectation.

It was a matter of course that all the "society" would be there. The entire first row of the
boxes,--the "piano nobile," as it is called in Italian theatres,--was the private property
of the various noble families of the city, which each had its box, with its coat of arms duly
emblazoned on the door thereof, in that tier. Nobody who did not belong to "the society" of
the town could in any way show his intruding face in the "piano nobile." But above this sacred
hemicycle there was another range of boxes; equally private boxes; as all the boxes of an Italian
theatre are;--and the key of one of these upper "loggie" had been secured by Ludovico, and
presented to Signora Orsola and Paolina for the great evening.

Of course he himself would be obliged to be in his proper place in the Castelmare box, which
was the stage box on the left hand of the stage.

"Whether I may be able to run up and pay you a little visit in the course of the evening, I
don't know. You may be very sure I shall if I can; but there will be all the world there, of
course, and lo zio in the box--unless, indeed, he should choose to go behind the scenes. Talking
of that," he added, as he was on the point of leaving the room, "I don't know what to make
of lo zio of late."

"Has he said anything?"

"Not a word; but I don't like the look of him. He never was more amiable as far as I am concerned;
but he is not well; I never saw him as he is now. He is haggard, feverish, restless; an older
man in appearance by a dozen years than he was at the beginning of Carnival."

"I suppose he has been raking too much, and wants a little rest. Lent will be good for him."

"What, he! The Marchese Lamberto raking! You don't know him. But he seems quite broken down;
I should say, that he had got something on his mind, if it was not impossible. He never had
any trouble in his life; and never did anything he ought not to do, I believe. But I confess
he puzzles me now. Good-night. God bless you, Paolina mia!"

That was on the Friday; and the Diva's last appearance was to take place on the following Sunday.

CHAPTER II

The Corso

The institution of Carnival and Lent in Italy seems very much as if it arose from a practical
conviction in the minds of the Italians that they cannot serve two masters,--at least at the
same time,-- Mammon in all his forms is to be the acknowledged and exclusive lord of the hour
during the first period, on condition that higher and holier claims to service shall be as
unreservedly recognized when the second shall have set in.

     "Let us have wine and women, mirth and laughter,
     Sermons and soda water the day after."

Byron has given us the rule with the most orthodox accuracy. Whether the second portion of
the prescription is observed as heartily, punctually, and universally as the first, may be
doubted. But in all outward form and ceremony the violence of the contrast between the two
seasons is acted out to the letter; is, or was, as may be perhaps more correctly said now-a-days;
for both Carnival jollity and licence, and Lent strictness, are from year to year less observed
than used to be the case. At Rome, Mother Church exhorts her subjects to feast and laugh in
Carnival, in nowise less earnestly or imperatively than she enjoins on them fasting and penances
for having laughed in Lent. But her subjects will do neither the one nor the other. And when
one hears reiterated complaints in Roman pulpits of pipings to which no dancers have responded,
and the vain exhortations of the ecclesiastical authorities to the people to Carnival frolic
and festivity, one is reminded of our own Archbishop's "Book of Sports," and led to make comparisons,
by which hangs a very long tale.

Great Pan died once upon a time. And Carnival, as it used to be, is with much else dying now
in Italy. But in the days to which the incidents here narrated belong, the difference between
Carnival and Lent was as marked as that between day and night.

More marked indeed. For between day and night there is twilight, but the transition from Carnival
to Lent is as sudden as a plunge from sunshine into cold water. Carnival ends at twelve o'clock
on the night of Shrove Tuesday. And the theory of its observance is, or was, that the fun and
revelry should grow ever more fast and furious up to the last permitted moment. Then, the clock
strikes; the lights are put out, Carnival dies amid one last hurrah. And maskers and revellers
go home to rise the next morning with grave and perhaps yellow faces.

In Ravenna, as has been said, a great reception of all the society at the Palazzo Castelmare
on the Sunday evening was as much an institution as the High Mass on a Sunday morning. And
this was the course of things during all the year, except in Carnival time. Then, in order
to leave Sunday evening--the great time for balls and theatres, and pleasure of all sorts free,
the reception at the Palazzo Castelmare was changed to the Monday. The programme, therefore,
for the three last grand days of the Carnival in Ravenna, on that occasion, stood thus:--

On the Sunday, a grand gala Corso from four to six in the afternoon. (That is to say, that
every available carriage of every sort in Ravenna would be put in requisition, and would be
driven in procession, at a slow foot pace, up and down the long street called the Corso; and
those who had servants and liveries and fine horses would display them and rejoice; and those
who had none of these things would mingle with the grand carriages in broken-down shandridans,
and rejoice also at the sight of the finery, without the smallest feeling of shame at their
own poverty. This is a Corso.) On the Sunday evening, the grand representation of the Sonnambula,
with the theatre lighted (according to advertisement) "with wax-candles, till it was as light
as day!"

Secondly, on the Monday, another Corso, with throwing of flowers and "coriandoli" (i. e. what
was supposed to be comfits, but in reality little pills of flour made and sold by the hundredweight
for the purpose) from the carriages to each other, and from the windows and the balconies of
the houses. Then in the evening, a grand gala reception at the Palazzo Castelmare, at which
it was understood masks would be gladly welcomed by the host.

On the night of the Tuesday, thirdly, the last great day of all, there was to be a grand masked
ball at the Circolo dei Nobili; that ball of which and of its consequences on the Ash Wednesday
morning, the reader already wots. And this was to be the wind-up of the Carnival.

The Corso on the Sunday was a most successful one. The weather was all that was most desirable;
bright, not too cold, and free from wind and dust. The Marchese Lamberto turned out with two
handsomely appointed equipages. He and his sister-in-law occupied one carriage, and the Marchese
Ludovico and the Conte Leandro Lombardone, who was not a rich man, and had no carriage of his
own, sat in the second.

It could not be said that the Marchese Lamberto "looked like the time!" And, in truth, he would
have given much to escape the ordeal he was called upon to go through. But that was out of
the question; unless he had been confined to his bed--in which case the whole town would have
been at the palazzo door with inquiries, and all the doctors at his bedside in consultation--it
could not be that he should not show himself at the Corso.

Both the Castelmare carriages had the front seats laden with huge baskets of bouquets prepared
for throwing at friends and acquaintances in other carriages, and at windows and balconies.
The occupants of the carriages seemed to be embedded in a bank of flowers. And there sat the
Marchese amid this wealth of rainbow- colours, looking positively ghastly,--so changed, so
drawn, so aged was he. And his painful attempts to enter into the spirit of the scene, and
act the part which he was expected to act, would have been pitiable to any eye which had observed
them closely.

He had left Bianca only just before it had been necessary to return to the palazzo to get into
his carriage for the Corso: and the interview between them had been an important one. He had
gone thither fully purposed to explain to her, finally, the utter impossibility of his doing
as she would have him do. He meant to point out to her how exceptionally difficult it would
be for him, in the peculiar position he occupied, to make her his wife. He intended to show
her that such a step would have the effect of pulling him down rather than that of pulling
her up. He had purposed endeavouring to induce her to accede to such proposals as he could
make to her by the exhibition of the most unstinting generosity. And he had determined,--fully,
finally, and irrevocably determined, that if all that be could say to her on these points should
fail to persuade her to accede to such an arrangement, as he had it in his power to propose
to her, he would that day, and from that hour, give her up, and swear to himself never to let
the image of her cross his memory again.

The visit had been long, and occasionally even somewhat tempestuous. The Marchese had been
eloquent; and now driven to bay, had been unequivocal enough in his declarations, his determinations,
and his promises. The Diva had shown herself a Diva at every point. She had wept, she had smiled,
she had been scornful, she had been suppliant, she had been repellent, she had been loving!
And in every mood she had seemed to the fascinated eyes of the Marchese more lovely than in
that which preceded it. Finally, she had conquered. Instead of coming away from her, never
to see her again, he came away leaving her with the offer of his hand.

And there had been a moment of supreme triumph and ecstasy when permitted, for the first time,
to take her in his arms, and press that lovely bosom to his own, and glue his own to those
heavenly lips; it had seemed to him as if the prize that was his was worth a thousand times
all that he was paying for it. It was all for love, and the world well lost. For not for an
instant did the Marchese blind himself to the fact that his world must be lost by such a marriage
as he was contemplating. But what did he care for all that had been hitherto to him as the
breath of his nostrils? He now felt, for the first time, what of joy and real happiness life
had in truth to offer. He would go away,--far away with his Bianca and live only for her, and
for the delights of her love! Fool that he had been to hesitate. And blessed a thousand times
was her sweet, her dear insistence, that had led him to better things!

Such was the state of the mind of the Marchese, while he held his Diva in his arms; and it
lasted in full force, almost till he had left the door of her house behind him as he hastened
to the palazzo to discharge the Corso duty, which was one of the most prominent functions of
his present social position.

And then it seemed as if suddenly,--with a suddenness equal to that of a tropical sunset,--the
scales had fallen from his eyes, and he was another man.

Great God! What had he done? Had he been smitten with sudden madness? What--what was the fatal
power this fearful woman had over him? Were then the old witchcraft and philtre tales really
true? Surely he must be the victim of some spell, some horrible enchantment. Marry her! Heavens
and earth! He hated her. He felt as if he could with pleasure take her by that beautiful throat
and squeeze the noxious life out of her.

He pressed his burning hand to his yet hotter forehead, as soon as he found himself in the
quiet and solitude of his own room, swallowed a large glass of water, and strove to obtain
such little command over himself, for the moment at least, as might suffice to enable him to
go through the task before him.

A servant knocked at the door and put his head in to announce that the carriages were at the
door. The miserable man started from his chair as if he had been caught in some crime, and
answered that he would be down directly. A second time he swallowed, hastily, a large glass
of water, for his throat felt parched with thirst; and then, with a vigorous effort to appear
gay and at his ease, which produced only the semblance of a fixed unnatural grin on his face,
he went down to the carriage.

It was painful to him to pass between the servants who stood in the hall, painful to have to
take his seat by the side of his sister-in- law,--and most painful of all to meet the gaze
of all the town assembled for the Corso. He could not help thinking that all eyes were turned
on him, with glances of surprise and suspicion. He felt ashamed to meet and be seen by his
acquaintances. He, the Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare, who had never, till that hour, known
what it was to shun the eye of any man,--who had been accustomed to be the cynosure of all
eyes, and to feel that they were all turned on him with respect and regard.

The occasion, and the part he was expected to fulfil in it, made it necessary for him to recognize
and return every minute the salutations and greetings of his friends and those who knew him.
And who in Ravenna did not know the Marchese Lamberto? There was a good- natured word wanted
here, a gallant little phrase there, a salutation with the speaking fingers to this carriage,
a more formal bow to the occupants of another, a gracious nod to one person, and a smile to
a second.

And all this the unhappy man essayed to perform, as he had so often performed it happily, easily,
and successfully in other days.

It was impossible for anybody, whose eye rested on the Marchese for an instant, as he sat amid
the flowers in his carriage, to avoid seeing that there was something wrong with him--that
he was very unlike his usual self. And every eye, as the carriages passed each other in the
long procession, forming two lines as one passed down the street while the other moved in the
contrary direction, did rest on him. But it never for an instant entered into the head of a
single human being there, to guess at anything like the real cause of the change in the Marchese.

"Time begins to tell on the Marchese; he takes too much out of himself; always busy--no rest--a
bad thing!" said one.

"The Marchese Lamberto looks knocked up with this carnival. Quite time for him that Lent was
come," said another.

"The fact is that the Marchese is growing old, and he wants more rest. He has not a minute
to himself,--too many irons in the fire at once, said a third.

"I dare say he has been worried out of his life in getting this new Opera put upon the stage.
You'll see he'll be all right enough at the ball to-morrow night."

"Is she in the Corso--La Lalli?"

"Altro. I should think so--and looking so lovely. What a woman she is!"

"Whereabouts is she?"

"About twenty carriages further ahead. You'll see her presently, when we are near the turn,
sitting buried up to her waist nearly in flowers--a regular Flora, and such a representative
as the Goddess never had before."

"Who has she got with her in her carriage?" asked the first speaker. "I expected to have seen
the Marchesino Ludovico there, but he is with the Conte Leandro, in one of the Castelmare carriages."

"Che! catch her compromising herself in any such manner. I wonder how much some of our friends
would have given to have the place beside her to-day? But not a bit of it: she has got the
old man she calls her father with her."

"Funny, isn't it? I wonder what her game is?"

"Simply to work hard at her vocation, and make as much money as she can, I take it. Probably
you would find, if you got at the truth, some animal of a baritono robuato, who owns the Diva's
heart, and for whom she works and slaves."

"Poverina! there are the Castelmare carriages coming round again."

The manner of an Italian "Corso" is this: A certain street, or streets--the most adapted to
the exigencies of the case that the city can supply--is selected for the purpose; and when
the line of carriages reaches the end of this, it turns and proceeds back again to the other
end; turns again, and so on. Thus, at each turn, every carriage in the line meets every other
once in each circuit.

The second Castelmare carriage, in which the Marchese Ludovico and Leandro Lombardoni were
sitting, was following next after that occupied by the Marchese Lamberto and his sister-in-law;
and thus each carriage in the line proceeding in a contrary direction to them, passed first
the Marchese Lamberto and then his nephew. The carriage occupied by the latter was a wholly
open one with a low back. But that in which the Marchese Lamberto sat, though also an open
carriage, and entirely so in front, had a half roof at the back, so that it was not so conveniently
adapted as the other for seeing those following it as well as those preceding it.

The Marchese and his sister-in-law threw bouquets into almost every carriage that passed them;
and the stock with which they had started was soon very much diminished. But one specially
magnificent and large bouquet, which conspicuously occupied the centre of the front seat of
the carriage, was evidently reserved. Everybody who saw it knew very well for whom that was
intended. Of course it was for none other than the Diva of the theatre. And the known interest
which the Marchese took in such matters, his musical fanaticism, and the large share he had
had in bringing La Lalli to Ravenna, made it quite natural, and a matter of course, that he
should pay her such a compliment.

Presently he descried her in the opposite string of carriages, coming towards him. Her carriage
was an entirely open one, and she sate in it, with old Quinto Lalli by her side, literally,
as one observer had said, half buried in flowers. And most assuredly neither the labours nor
the dissipations of the carnival, nor time, nor care, nor any other circumstance, had dimmed
the lustre of her beauty, or lessened the verve and spirit of enjoyment with which she took
her part in the pageant. She was brilliant with vivacity, beauty, and happiness.

The Marchese might have been seen, had anybody been observing him closely at the moment, to
turn visibly paler as her carriage approached his. As far as any clear thought had been in
his mind, or any power of thinking possible to him, his latest idea in reference to her had
been a desperate resolve that he would never speak to her again. And now, again, as he saw
her, in a new avatar of loveliness, he once again knew that to keep such a resolution was above
his power.

What he had to do at the moment was to be done, in any case, with the best grace he might.
Taking the huge mass of skilfully-arranged flowers in both hands, as her carriage came opposite
to his, he leaned out as far as he could, and Quinto Lalli, who sat on the side nearest to
him, stretched out to meet him, and then handed the offering to the Goddess. She smiled brilliantly
and bowed low, sending a coquettish, sidelong glance of private thanks under eyelashes as she
bent her graceful neck.

The carriages rolled on, and passed each other; and there rushed into the Marchese's head a
sudden pulse of blood, which turned his previous pallor into a dusky crimson, and seemed to
make all the scene swim before his eyes. Partly to hide the evidences of the emotion of which
he was conscious, and partly because he felt as if he needed the support, he threw himself
back into the corner of the carriage, turning himself away from the scene in front of it as
though to shelter his face from the sun that was then so low in the sky as to begin to throw
its slanting rays under the hoods of the carriages. This position, as it chanced, brought the
Marchese's eye to bear on the little glass window made in the back of the hood of the carriage,
after the old-fashioned manner of coach-building.

And what he saw through the little window was this.

A something--a white paper packet, it looked like--was in the act of being thrown to the Diva's
carriage from that immediately behind his own, in which, it will be remembered, were his nephew
and the Conte Leandro; and the Goddess herself was leaning far out of her carriage in the act
of throwing a bouquet to the Marchese Ludovico: The Marchese Lamberto also saw the magnificent
flowers he had himself just given to Bianca roll from her carriage on to the pavement,--an
accident caused by the movement of her person as she leaned forward to throw her flowers to
the other carriage.

With what an added torment to the hell that raged within him the unfortunate Marchese returned
from that miserable Corso to his palazzo, may be well imagined.

Nevertheless, there had been as little meaning in what he had seen as there often is in many
things that make the madness of a jealous man's jealousy.

With the white paper packet--for such it in truth was--the Marchese Ludovico had nothing whatever
to do. It had been thrown by the poet Leandro, and contained an attempt to improve the occasion
after a fashion, such as he hoped must draw some reply from the Diva. Bianca had taken the
opportunity--somewhat coquettishly, but according to the laws and customs of such occasions,
quite permissibly--to pay Ludovico the compliment in the eye of all Ravenna of throwing some
flowers because she liked him, and because she chose to mark the fact that she threw none during
all the Corso to anybody else. She would have done the same if it had so happened that it had
been in front of the Marchese Lamberto's carriage instead of behind it; but, of course, to
the passion-blinded brain of the latter, this circumstance made all the difference.

As to the rolling of his own superb bouquet on the pavement, it had been quite accidental,
and much regretted by Bianca. To recover anything of the kind on such an occasion is, it must
be understood, quite out of the question. Any such fallen treasure--and half the things thrown
do fall short of the hands for which they are meant-- becomes the instant prey of the small
boys who throng the streets, and are constantly on the look-out for such windfalls around the
carriages.

CHAPTER III

"La Sonnambula"

It may be easily imagined that the Marchese returned from the Corso very little disposed to
take any pleasure in the treat to which all Ravenna was looking forward, and which he would
have enjoyed more than any one else under other circumstances--the performance at the theatre
on that Sunday evening. Nevertheless, the duty of attending it had to be done. All Ravenna
would have been astonished, and have wanted to "know the reason why," if the Marchese had been
absent from his box on such an evening. "Society" expected it of him that he should be there,
and he had been all his life doing everything that "society" expected of him; besides, his
presence there really was needed, and poor little Ercole Stadione would have despaired inconsolably
if he had been deprived, on such an occasion, of the support of his great friend and patron.

But if none of these reasons had existed--if the Marchese, when he reached the shelter of his
own roof after that horrible Corso, had been entirely free to go to bed and escape the necessity
of facing the eyes of all the world of Ravenna, which seemed to him to be from hour to hour
growing into a more terrible ordeal, would he have gone to bed and abstained from attending
the theatre?

It might have been very confidently predicted that he would not have done so. He began, in
an unreasoning animal-like sort of way, to recognize the fact that every hour that he spent
away from this woman was bare, barren, and of no value to him at all. He was conscious that
he could be said to live only in her presence. He was beginning to give himself up as a lost
man, and to acquiesce, half- stunned and stupid, in a fatality which he could not struggle against.

And now he was longing--burning not only to have his eyes on her again, but to speak to her.
He would have plenty, of opportunities of doing so at the theatre in the green-room, or in
her dressing- room, and every minute seemed to him an age till he could find such an opportunity.

If he had been asked at that minute--if he had himself asked of his own mind--what he meant
to do--to what future he was looking, whether he meant to marry La Lalli or to give her up,
he would probably have repudiated either alternative with equal violence. His mind was in a
state of chaos; and what was to come in any future, except the most immediate one, he had become
incapable of considering. Now he was going to see, to hear, to breathe the same atmosphere
with her again, and to go through the wretched task of striving to behave as usual, and look
as usual in the eyes of all Ravenna.

The performance was to commence at half-past eight o'clock, and the Marchese, reaching the
theatre nearly half-an-boar before that time, found Bianca sufficiently nearly dressed for
him to be admitted to her dressing-room. She was putting the finishing touches to the platting
of her magnificent hair, after the fashion of a Swiss village-girl, for the completion of her
toilette as Amina. He thought that, in this new costume, she looked more irresistibly attractive
than he had yet seen her.

"Bianca," he said, as soon as her dresser had left her, and shut the door, "you have made me
so miserable to-day. I must tell you openly at once what is in my heart. I saw, to-day, at
the Corso--by no means intending to look at all at your carriage after it had passed mine--I
saw my poor flowers thrown away by you, while you were throwing a bouquet to my nephew and
receiving from him something thrown in return. Bianca, is that the conduct of a woman who has
the very same morning accepted the hand of another man? Bianca, I warn you to beware; you do
not know what such a love as mine, if it should discover itself to be betrayed, might be capable
of."

"Marchese, do not look at me in that way; you frighten me, and what have I done? It is all
a mistake, entirely a mistake!" said the poor Diva, really frightened at the manner of the
Marchese.

"Did I not see you throw the flowers I had given you from your carriage; evidently for the
purpose of gratifying another person?"

"Oh, Marchese! how is it possible that such a thought should enter into your head? Ah, how
little you know. If you knew how I had grieved over the loss of the beautiful bouquet that
had come from your hand! It fell from the carriage by accident; and it was snatched up, and
a boy ran off with it, all in a moment; I would have given anything to get it back again."

"But how came the accident? It was caused by your leaning out of your carriage to throw a bouquet
yourself."

"Yes, exactly so; to the Marchese Ludovico. He was the only person to whom I threw a bouquet
in all the Corso."

"And why should you throw one to him?"

"To him,--to your nephew? Why not, I should not have thought of doing so to another. But to him--"

"And what was it, pray, that he threw to you? I wonder whether he thought, too, that he should
not dream of throwing anything to anybody except you."

"The Marchese Ludovico threw nothing to me. Just at the same moment that troublesome idiot,
the Conte Leandro, threw a packet into the carriage. I have not even opened it; you may have
it unopened the next time you are in the Strada di Porta Sisi, if you like. No doubt it contains
some of his charming verses. It is not kind of you, Signor Marchese, to say such things, or
to have such thoughts in your head!" said Bianca, turning away her face and putting her handkerchief
to her eyes. "And now," she added, "you have made my eyes all red just before I have to go
on the stage!"

Of course once again the unhappy Marchese was entirely routed, and the Diva was victorious.
"Forgive me, Bianca,", he whispered; "I think only of you from the morning to the evening,
and from the evening to the morning again. And it would be impossible for any man to love,
as I love you, without a liability to jealousy. I am jealous of your love, Bianca!"

"But it is wonderful that you should not perceive how little cause you have for any such feeling.
Oh, Marchese, how can you doubt me? Surely you must have seen and known how entirely my love
is yours. You must not wring your poor Bianca's heart by such cruel suspicions."

And then the three knocks, which announced the raising of the curtain, were heard; and the
Marchese again murmuring a request to be forgiven, as he kissed her hand, hurried away to take
his place in his box.

The house was already nearly full, for the occasion was a notable one; and the opera was new
to Ravenna; and everybody wished to hear every note of it. The Marchese Ludovico was not, however,
in the Castelmare box, when his uncle reached it, but he came in a minute afterwards. He had
been up to the upper tier of boxes to say a word to Paolina and her old friend, who were in
the box he had provided for them, which was on the opposite side of the house to the Castelmare
box; and exactly over that in the "piano nobile" in which were the Marchesa Anna Lanfredi,
and her niece the Contessa Violante.

There was a little noise in the house of people not yet seated during the opening chorus of
villagers; but when the prima donna came on the stage as Amina, after the prolonged and repeated
rounds of applause, which greeted her appearance, had subsided, a pin's fall might have been
heard in the theatre.

The Marchese Ludovico had joined cordially and boisterously, and the Marchese Lamberto more
moderately, in the applause which had saluted the entrance of the Diva; and after that the
latter had placed himself in the corner of the box, with his back to the audience, and his
face towards the stage, and with an opera-glass at his eyes, he sat perfectly still, feeding
his passion with every glance, every change of feature, and every movement of the woman who
had enthralled him.

Then came the famous song of Amina, the happy village-bride about to be married on the morrow
to her lover--the tenor of course. The Diva sang it admirably, and acted it equally well. The
purest girlish innocence was expressed in every trait of her features and manifested itself
in every gesture and every movement. The perfect, trusting, happy love of a fresh and innocent
heart could have had no better representative.

The recitative, "Care compagne," etc, addressed to the assembled villagers, fell from her lips
with a purity of enunciation that made each syllable seem like a note from a silver bell. And
then the air, "Come per me sereno," held the house entranced till the final note of it. And
then burst forth such a frantic shout of applause and delight as can be heard only in an Italian
theatre.

Ludovico leant far out of the stage-box in which he sat, and joined vociferously in the plaudits
with both hand and voice. But the Marchese remained quiet in his corner, with his face half-shaded
by his hand, conscious as he was that the expression of it might need hiding from the others
in the box. He need not have heeded them; for their attention was too exclusively occupied
with the stage for them to expend any of it on him. Had it been otherwise his hand, covering
the lower half of his face, would not have sufficed to conceal his emotion.

Now again the hot fit of his love was in the ascendant. Never had Bianca more thoroughly captivated
him. Never had it seemed to him less possible to live without her. What to him were all these
dull and empty blockheads for whom be had hitherto lived, and who were now--the foul fiend
seize them!--sharing with him the delight of seeing and hearing her for the last time. Yes,
it should be for the last time. He would make her his, all his own; and carry her far away
from all that could remind either her or himself of their past lives. And then a scowl of displeasure
came over his face as his glance lighted on his nephew's noisy and unrestrained manifestations
of enthusiastic admiration.

Presently, towards the end of the first act, came the duet between Amina and her lover, who
has been made causelessly jealous, and Bianca sang the pretty lines--

     "Son, mio bene, del zeffiro amante,
     Perche ad esso il tuo nome confido.
     Amo il sol, perche teco il divido,
     Amo il rio, perche l'onda ti da,"

with a sweetness of expression perfectly irresistible. The Marchese in his corner, half-shrouded
from the observation of the house by the curtain, which, though undrawn, hung down by the side
of the box, but fully facing the stage, was perfectly aware that the singer had specially addressed
herself to him; and he felt the full force of the loving rebuke for the unreasonable displeasure
he had so recently manifested in her dressing-room. His heart went out towards her; and he
felt that if it were to be done that moment, he could have led her to the altar in the face
of all Christendom.

At the end of the act the plaudits were again vociferous, and four times was the smiling and
triumphant Diva compelled by the calls and clamour of her worshippers to return before the
curtain to receive their applause and salute them in return for it. The Marchese Ludovico again
loudly and enthusiastically joined in these manifestations; and then, when they were over,
and the noise in the house had subsided, he quietly slipped out of the box, and springing up
the stairs which communicated with the upper tier of boxes, entered that occupied by Paolina
and the Signora Orsola Steno.

"What did you think of that, Paolina mia?" he said, sitting down by her side, and making the
action of applauding with his hands, as he spoke. "Did you ever hear a thing more charmingly
sung? Is she not divine?"

"There is no mistaking your opinion on the point, at all events, amico mio. I never saw anybody
manifest such unbounded admiration as you did just now. But the Diva was not thinking of you,
I can tell you," said Paolina, with just the slightest possible flavour of pique in her tone.

"Thinking of me; I should imagine not indeed. But what upon earth have you got into that dear
little head of yours, my Paolina? Did not you think both singing and acting very fine?"

"Certainly I think her voice is perhaps the finest I ever heard in my life; and she is no doubt
a great actress--a very great actress; but--she is not simpatica to me. I don't know why, but--somehow
or other--I don't like her."

"What can you have got into your head, tesoro mio? You know nothing of her; you have nothing
to do with her except to see and hear her on the stage."

"No; thank heaven! I should not like that she should come any nearer to my life than that,"
replied Paolina, with a little shudder.

"Come, Paolina, you must admit that that is being prejudiced and unreasonable," said Ludovico
smiling at her.

"Yes; I suppose it is. But--Ludovico mio, just ask any other woman-- any other good woman--in
the house; and see if they have not the same feeling. The Contessa Violante, for example--ask
her," said Paolina.

"Just because she is splendidly handsome: women cannot be just to each other when that comes
in the way. But you might afford to be charitable even to so beautiful a creature as the Lalli,
my Paolina."

"No, Signor, I won't be bribed by compliments, even from you," she whispered, with a look that
showed that the value of the bribe was not unappreciated; "and I think that what you say is
unjust to women in general."

"But I wonder what it is then that has prejudiced you against the Lalli?"

"I don't know. Really nothing that I can tell. One feels sometimes what one cannot explain.
She is not simpatica to me, that is all."

"But what on earth put it into your head, Paolina mia, to say that she was not thinking of
me when she was singing her part? Why should she think of me--or of anybody else, except the
primo tenore, who was singing with her? What is it you mean?" said Ludovico, much puzzled.

"You said she was a very good actress as well as a fine singer," returned Paolina; "and I think
she is. This is a capital box for seeing all that goes on the opposite side of the theatre.
And I can tell you who the Lalli was thinking of, and who she was singing at during her duet
at the end of the act--your uncle, the Marchese Lamberto; and he knew it very well, too."

"What parcel of nonsense have you got into your little brains, Paolina? Sing at the Marchese?
Of course they all do; of course they all know that his suffrage is of more importance to them
than all the rest of the theatre put together. But as for my idea of--lo zio- -of all men in
the world. Ha, ha, ha! If you had lived in Ravenna instead of Venice all your life, carina
mia, you would know how infinitely absurd the idea seems of there being anything between the
Marchese Lamberto and a stage singer, or of its being possible for him to regard her in any
other light than that of a singing machine."

"I dare say you are right, caro mio. Still I can't quite think that the Marchese would look
at any one of the fiddles quite as I saw him look at her," said Paolina.

And then the immense interval, which occurs between one act and another in Italian theatres,
and which is tolerated with perfect contentment by Italian audiences, came to an end; and Ludovico
hurried down to take his place again in the Castelmare box.

The next point in the opera which excited the special enthusiasm of the house was the impassioned
finale to the second act, in which Amina on her knees strives to convince her lover of her
innocence of having ever harboured a thought inconsistent with entire devotion to him. She
sang as if her whole soul were in her words; and the entire theatre was electrified by the
power of her acting; the entire theatre, with the exception of one intelligent and observant
little face in a box on the upper tier, exactly opposite to that of the Marchese Lamberto.

From that vantage-ground of observation Paolina saw perfectly well both the singer on the stage
and the Marchese in the box; and again felt sure that the actress was specially addressing
herself with an implied meaning to the latter; and that he was aware that she was doing so.
She felt no doubt that the motive for this was exactly that to which Ludovico had attributed
it. It was important to the Diva to flatter and make a friend of so powerful a theatrical patron
as the Marchese; and she took this very objectionable method, Paolina thought, of attaining
that end. Paolina thought nothing more than this; but, nevertheless, it made her conceive a
dislike for the Diva greater, perhaps, than the cause would seem to justify.

The interval between the second and the third act Ludovico thought himself obliged to pass
in the box of the Marchese Anna Lanfredi, in which Violante was sitting with her aunt. There,
too, he found the ladies not quite disposed to be as frantically enthusiastic in their praises
of the singer as the whole male part of the audience. The Marchesa Lanfredi thought that La
Lalli was nothing at all in comparison with some singer who had charmed all Bologna some forty
years before. And Violante, admitting that she had an exquisite voice and perfect method, confessed
much as Paolina had done, that she did not quite like her, she hardly knew why.

In the third act, the song sung by the sleep-walker in her state of unconsciousness--"Ah non
credea mirarti,"--was a great success. And most fascinatingly lovely the Diva looked in her
white night-dress, with her wreath of rich auburn tresses hanging in luxuriant curls around
her shoulders.

Shortly after this had been sung a liveried servant entered the Castelmare box, bearing a most
superb bouquet of choice flowers, tied with a long streamer of broad rose-coloured ribbon,
and deposited it on the front of the box.

And then came the joyful finale "Ah non giunge." And in that the Diva seemed to surpass herself.
It was a passionate carol of love, and joy, and triumph in which she seemed to pour the whole
force and energy of her soul into the words and sounds that told the truth, the entirety, the
perfection of her love, and the overwhelming happiness the recognition of it by its object
gave her.

For many minutes the vociferous applause continued. The stage was covered with flowers flung
from all sides of the house. The Marchese Lamberto whispered a word or two to Ludovico; and
then the latter, leaning far out of the box, presented the magnificent bouquet to Bianca, who
was smiling and thanking the public for their plaudits by repeated curtsies, and who came for
it to the side of the stage. She made a very low and graceful curtsey to Ludovico, as she took
it from his hand; but her eyes thanked the Marchese Lamberto, who still remained close in his
corner, for the gift.

The fact was that he was too much moved by violent and contending emotions to dare to trust
himself to hand the flowers himself. He knew that he was shaking in every limb; and, therefore,
had told his nephew to give the bouquet; which, indeed, it was quite a matter of course that
a successful prima donna should receive from that box on such an occasion.

Again and again the curtain had to be raised after it had descended in obedience to the cries
of the spectators, who were determined to make the Diva's triumph complete. Again and again
she had to step back on the stage and make yet one more bow and smile--yet one more gracious smile.

During this delay the Marchese Lamberto slipped from his box and made his way behind the scenes.
"Can you feel as Bianca what you can so divinely express as Amina?" he whispered in her ear
as he gave her his arm to lead her to her carriage at the stage-door.

"Try me as Amina was tried; and reward me as Amina was rewarded, and then see," she replied
in the same tone.

And so ended Bianca Lalli's Carnival engagement at Ravenna.

CHAPTER IV

The Marchese Lamberto's Correspondence

The next morning--the morning of the Monday after the gala performance at the theatre--the
post brought to the Palazzo Castelmare a letter from Rome, before the Marchese had left his
chamber. The servant took it to his master's room, found him still in bed, though awake, and
left it on the table by his bedside.

The Marchese Lamberto was, and had been all his life, far too busy a man to be a late riser.
Italians, indeed, who do nothing all day long, are often very early risers. Their, climate
leads them to be so. They sleep during hours which are less available for being out of doors--for
your Italian idler passes very little of his day in his own home--and they are up and out during
the delicious hours of the early morning. But the Marchese Lamberto, whose days were filled
with the multiplicity of occupations and affairs that have been described in a previous chapter,
was wont, at all times of the year, to rise early.

On the present occasion, a sleepless night--and such nights, also, were a new phenomenon in
the Marchese's life--might have been a reason for his being late. But he was not sleeping when
his servant took the letter in to him. The frame of mind in which he returned from the theatre
has been described. It lasted till he fell into a feverish sleep, soon after going to his bed.

The dreams that made such sleep anything but rest may be easily guessed. He was startled from
them by the fancy that the kisses of Bianca burned his lips; that it was a scorching flame,
that he was pressing in his arms, the contact of which turned all his blood to liquid fire.

He slept no more during the night. And the good that had seemed to him, as he sate in his box
at the opera, more desirable than all the other goods the world could give, seemed good no
longer; seemed, in the dark stillness of his night-thoughts, like a painted bait, with which
the arch-tempter was luring him to his ruin and destruction.

Restlessly turning on his bed with a deep sigh, and pressing his hot hand to his yet hotter
brow, he took the letter that had been brought him, and saw that it was from his Roman friend
and correspondent, Monsignore Paterini:

"Illusmo Signor Marchese E Mio Buono E Colendmo Amico," the letter ran--"Seeing that the subject
of my letter is matter adapted rather to Carnival than to Lenten tide, I hasten to write so
that it may reach your lordship before the festive season is over. That your friends in Rome
are never forgetful of one, who so eminently deserves all their best thoughts and good wishes,
I trust I need not tell you. But in this our Rome, where so many interests are the unceasing
care of so many powerful friends and backers, it needs such merit as that of your lordship
to make the efforts of friends successful."

"Understand, then, that his Holiness has been kept constantly aware of all that Ravenna--the
welfare of which ancient and noble city is especially dear to him--owes to your constant and
intelligent efforts for the advancement of true civilization and improvement, as distinguished
from all that innovators, uninfluenced by the spirit of religion, vainly, boast as such. Specially,
our Holy Father has been pleased by the energy, tact, and truly well-directed zeal, with which
you have succeeded in bringing to a satisfactory conclusion the thorny and difficult business
of the Spighi property, on which all the welfare of our well-beloved Sisters in Christ the
Augustines of St. Barnaba so greatly depends. The lady superior of that well- deserving house
is, as you are aware, the sister of his Eminence the Cardinal Lattoli; and so signal a service
rendered in that direction is, as I need hardly tell your lordship, not likely to be forgotten."

"It is under these circumstances that I have the great satisfaction of having it in my power
to inform your lordship, that it is the gracious purpose of our Holy Father to mark his approbation
and satisfaction at the conduct of your illustrious lordship in this matter, in a manner that,
while it manifests to the whole world the care of his Holiness for every portion of the dominions
of the Holy Church, will, I doubt not, be highly gratifying to yourself at the present time,
and will redound to the future glory and distinction of your noble family. It is, in a word,
the intention of the Holy Father to confer on your lordship the Grand Cross of the Most Noble
Order of the Santo Spirito. And it is further the benignant purpose and wish of his Holiness
to present you with this most honourable mark of his approbation with his own sovereign hand."

"We may therefore hope--myself and your numerous other friends in this city--to see you here
before long. Doubtless the tidings, which I have been anxious to be the first to give you,
will be very shortly communicated to you in a more official manner. I fancy, indeed, that I
shall not have been able to be much beforehand with the official announcement. Make your arrangements,
then, I beseech you, to give us as long a visit as you can steal from the grave cares of watching
over the interests of your beloved Ravenna. There are many here who are anxious to renew their
acquaintance, and, if he will permit them to say so, their friendship with the Marchese di
Castelmare. And, if I may venture to do so, my dear friend, I would, before closing my letter,
whisper that, with due care and a little activity, the present favour of our Holy Father may
be but the earnest of other things."

"The future, however, is in God's hands, and man is but as grass. Nevertheless, as far as it
is permissible to judge of the human agencies by which the Heavenly Providence brings about
its ends, I should say that your Legate, his Eminence the Cardinal Marliani, was, of all the
present Fathers of the Church, one of the most deserving of our regards and respect. Should
you have a fitting opportunity of allowing his Eminence to become aware how strongly such have
always been my sentiments, and how unceasingly I endeavour to impress them on others, I should
esteem it as a favour. It is well that merit even so exalted as his should know that it is
appreciated."

"Omit not, my friend, to offer to the Marchese Ludovico, your nephew, the expression of my
most distinguished regard and respect; and believe me, Illusmo Signor Marchese, of your Excellency
the devoted friend and most obedient servant."     "Giuseppe Paterini"

Before the Marchese had read the wordy epistle of his correspondent half through, he raised
himself briskly to an upright sitting posture in his bed, his head was lifted with a proud
movement from its drooping attitude, and an expression of gratified pride and pleasure came
into his eyes. The much-coveted distinction which was now, he was told, to be his, had long
been the object of his eager ambition. And the manner in which it was to be conferred on him--the
attitude he should stand in with reference to his friend the Cardinal Legate--all contributed
to make the occasion gratifying to him.

He rang his bell sharply for his servant, and said he would get up at once.

The valet said that there was a servant from the Legate's palace below, with a letter for the
Marchese from the Cardinal--that, fearing his master was not well, and might be getting a little
sleep, he, the valet, had been unwilling to bring the letter up; but that the man was waiting
his Excellency's pleasure, as he had been ordered to ask for an answer.

Doubtless this was the official communication of which Paterini spoke, or the forerunner of
it. The Marchese desired his man to bring him the Cardinal's letter directly.

Yes; the pleasant duty having fallen to the lot of the Cardinal of making a communication to
the Marchese, which would doubtless be highly gratifying to him, his Eminence was anxious to
seize the earliest opportunity of performing so agreeable a task; and would be happy to see
the Marchese at one o'clock that day, if that hour suited his lordship's convenience.

"Delighted to have the honour of waiting on his Eminence at the hour named."

The Marchese put the two letters on his toilet-table, and proceeded to dress. They were large
letters. That from Monsieur Paterini was written on a sheet of foolscap paper, and addressed
in a large strong hand, with the word RAVENNA in letters half an inch high. That from the Cardinal
was contained in a large square envelope, sealed with a huge seal bearing his Eminence's arms
under a Cardinal's hat, with its long many-tailed tassels hanging down on either side.

What a triumph would be this journey to Rome. What a yet greater triumph the return from it.
The Legate would certainly hold a special state reception to welcome him back, and give him
an opportunity of showing the new order to all his fellow-citizens. What a proud hour it would be.

The Marchese was indulging in these thoughts; dressing himself the while, and looking every
now and then at the two letters lying on his table, when a footman tapped at the door and handed
to the valet, who was attending on his master, yet a third epistle. Unlike the Cardinal's servant,
the man who had brought it had simply left it, and gone away without saying anything about
an answer.

This third letter did not resemble its two predecessors--at least on the outside--at all. It
was a very little letter; not a quarter of the size of either of the others; and the seal wherewith
it was sealed was not a tenth of the size of that of his Eminence; also, instead of being white
like the Cardinal's, or whity-yellow like the Prelate's, it was rose-coloured, and delicately
perfumed. And the superscription, "All' Illmmo Sigr il Sigr Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare,"
was written in very daintily pretty and delicate small characters; as unmistakably feminine
a letter as ever a gentleman received.

The Marchese's face changed visibly as the little missive was put into his hands. Yet he opened
it eagerly, and opened his nostrils to the perfume, which exhaled from it, with a greedily
sensuous seeming of pleasure.

This letter ran as follows:--

"Dearest And Best,--If you were not indeed and indeed so to me, could I have ever suffered
the vow that binds us mutually to each other to have been uttered?--Dearest and best, I write
mainly, I think, for the mere pleasure of addressing you. For I am sure that it is not necessary
to ask you to come to me. You can guess how eagerly I wish to speak to you; to hear from you
that you have dismissed for ever those horrid thoughts that you vexed me with at the theatre
last night. I longed so to have sung the words I had to utter for your ears--to your ears only:
`Amo il zeffiro, perche ad esso il tuo nome confido.' Ah, Lamberto, if you knew how true that
is. It is often--how often--the singer's duty to utter on the stage the words of passion. But
what a thing it is--a thing I never dreamed before--to feel them as I utter them. The opera
did not go badly, did it? I think the success was a legitimate one. But what is any success
or any applause now to me, save yours? I felt that I was singing to one only, as one only was
in my heart and in my thoughts. Do not let many hours pass before you come to me, my love,
my lord! For they go very slowly and heavily, these hours; and as I trace the movement of the
tardy hour-hand on the clock, I grow sick with longing, and with hope deferred. Come to me,
my dearest and my best. Your own"                   "Bianca"

"P. S.--I have mentioned our engagement to no soul save my father; of course you did not wish
me to exclude him from our confidence. He is fully worthy of it."

The Marchese sunk down into the chair that stood before his toilet- table, with the little
letter in his hand; and his hand shook, and his eyes were dizzy, and there was a buzzy ringing
in his ears. And still the perfume from the pink paper rose to his nostrils, and seemed to
his fancy as though it were a poison that he had neither the power nor the will to defend himself
from.

He had put the little pink note down on the table where the two other letters were, and sat
looking at the three. They were manifestly, fatally incompatible. Either the two big letters
must be thrown to the winds--they and their contents for ever--together with all thought of
honours, high social standing, and admiring respect of the world; or the little pink note must
be crushed at once and for ever, and its writer--ah!--made to understand, to begin with, that
the Marchese di Castelmare did not know his own mind; that his offer and his plighted word
were not to be trusted;

The letters lying there on the table before him, as he sat gazing at them almost without the
power of anything that merited to be called thought, represented themselves to his fancy as
living agencies of contrasted qualities and powers. The two large missives from his ecclesiastical
friends were creditable and useful steeds; harmless, wholesome in blood and nature, big and
pacific, apt for service, and good for drawing him on to honour, success, and prosperity. The
little pink note was a scorpion with a power a thousand-fold greater, for its size--a sharp,
venomous, noxious power, stinging to the death, yet imparting with its sting a terrible, a
fatal delight, an acrid fierce pleasure, which once tasted could not by any mortal strength
of resolution be dashed away from the lips.

He took the sweet-scented little paper in his hand and read it through again. And his veins
seemed to run with fire as he read. Then for the first time he saw the postscript. It had escaped
his notice before. That old man had been informed that he had offered marriage to the girl
he called his daughter and had been accepted.

It might not be so easy to crush the little pink scorpion note, and liberate himself from the
writer of it. Proof? There might be no legal evidence to show that he had ever made such a
promise. Yet, to have such an assertion made by Bianca and her father,--to have to deny the
fact, knowing it to be true!--he, Lamberto di Castelmare! Great God! what was before him?

Then there was that woman, the servant, too. Might it not well be that she, too, knew the promise
he had made; overheard him possibly; set to do so--likely enough! What was he to do?--what
was he to do?

Something he must do quickly. The Cardinal Legate was expecting him at one o'clock, and--would
it be best to drive Bianca from his mind till afterwards? Go to her he must in the course of
the day!

Then, suddenly as a lightning-flash, he saw her before him as he had gazed on her at the theatre
overnight in her white night-dress, uttering those words of passionate love--love which she
told him was all addressed to him,--which she was pining to speak to him again.

That, then, it was in his power to have, and to have now,--now at once. "Ahi, ahi!" he gnashed,
through his ground teeth, closing his eyes as the besieging vision postured itself in every
seductive guise before the suggestions of his fancy. Ah, God! what were Cardinals, and Crosses,
and place and station, or all the world beside, to one half-hour in those arms?

Come what come might, he would see her first before going to the Cardinal.

Snatching his hat, cane, and gloves, breakfastless as he was, he hurried out of the house half
mad with the passion that was consuming him, yet with enough of the old thoughts about him
to turn away, on quitting his own door, from the direction of the Porta Sisi, and to seek the
goal of his thoughts by the most unfrequented route he could find.

CHAPTER V

Bianca at Home

Quinto Lalli and Bianca were sitting together in the parlour of their apartments in the Strada
di Porta Sisi, that same Monday morning just after the little pink note had been despatched
to the Marchese. Bianca was having her breakfast--a small quantity of black coffee in a drinking-glass,
brought, together with a roll of dry bread, from the cafe. Old Lalli was not partaking of her
repast, having previously enjoyed a similar meal, with the addition of a modicum of some horrible
alcoholic mixture, called "rhume," poured into the coffee at the cafe in the next street.

"That will bring him fast enough," said the old man, alluding to the note which had been just
despatched. "The game is quite in your own hands, as I told you from the beginning it would
be. That postscript was a capital thought."

The postscript in question, which, it may be remembered, had not added to the pleasure the
billet had given the Marchese, had been added at the suggestion of old Lalli himself.

"I would rather not have written it," replied Bianca, peevishly. "It looked too much like putting
the screw on--I don't like it."

"Be reasonable, bambina mia, whatever you are. How, in the name of all the Saints, do you imagine
that you are to become Marchesa di Castelmare without putting the screw on--and that pretty
sharply too? The man is as thoroughly caught as ever man was caught by a woman; and I tell
you, therefore, that the game is in your own hands. But you don't suppose that he is burningly
eager to solicit the honour of your alliance, che diamine?"

"Don't, Quinto; don't go on in that way. I tell you I hate it all," returned Bianca.

"Cars mia, you are in an irrational humour this morning. Do you like the old game better? It
don't pay, bambina mia, as you have found out; and, above all, it won't last. But I am sure
you have reason to be satisfied with your success this season in any way. I never heard you
sing better in my life than you did last night; and, to say the truth, these people seemed
to appreciate it."

"I tell you, I hate it all--all--all!" said Bianca, as she swallowed the last drop of her coffee,
and threw herself on the sofa in an attitude of languor and ennui.

"You are unreasonable, Bianca, you are not like yourself this morning; I don't know what is
come to you. What in the world do you like, or what do you want?" said the old man, looking
at her with a puzzled air.

"Did you see the Marchese Ludovico in a box on the right-hand side on the second tier with
that Venetian girl, the artist?"

"The Marchese Ludovico was in the left-hand stage-box with his uncle."

"Of course he was; but I mean between the acts. I saw him from the wing by the side of that
girl with her face the colour of mahogany, and her half-alive look. I hate the look of her,
and I know she hates me!"

Old Quinto looked at his pupil curiously for a minute before he replied to her.

"What do you mean, Bianca mia?" he said, at last; "and what, in the name of all the Saints,
is the Venetian girl to you, or you to her? Did you ever speak to her? Why should she hate you?"

"I tell you, she does. We women can always see those things without needing to be told them;
and she knows, you may be very sure, that I hate her."

"But why? What is she to you?" reiterated the old man.

"You asked me, just now, what I wanted. I want, if you must know, what I can never have--what
the Venetian girl last night was getting."

"And what was she getting? I don't understand you, upon my soul!" said Quinto, staring at her,
and utterly puzzled.

"What was she getting? Love!--that was what she was getting! Ludovico loves her," said Bianca,
raising herself on her elbow, and speaking with fierce bitterness.

"Tu, tu, tu, tu, tu, tu!" whistled Quinto, between his pursed-up lips. "But I thought, bambina
mia, that you were going to love the Marchese Lamberto, and be a good wife to him, and all
the rest of it, according to the rules and practices of the best-regulated domestic family
circles; and I--I was so rejoiced to hear it," said the old reprobate, casting up his eyes
and hands.

"Don't, Quinto; don't talk in that manner, or you'll drive me beyond myself. I can't bear it."

"But did you not say that you loved the Marchese Lamberto?" persisted Quinto, dropping his
mocking tone, however.

"I said that I liked him better than any of the men I have known; that I admired him as a fine
and noble gentleman; that I would be a good and true wife to him,--and should love him," she
added, with a burst of bitterness, "better than he ever will, or can, love me."

"Well, come now, bambina mia. If you think that the Marchese is not enough in love with you,
you must have a strong appetite, indeed, and be very hard to content. Why, if there ever was
a man thoroughly caught, fascinated--"

"Bah! Love! Ludovico loves the Venetian," said Bianca, with an expressive emphasis on the verb.

"Ludovico, again! I protest I don't understand you, Bianca. But there, when a man has come
to my age he don't expect ever to understand a woman. You did not want Ludovico, as you call
him, to love you, did you?"

"No: but--"

And Bianca stopped short, and seemed to fall into a sort of reverie.

"But what? If you mean that you wanted to have the uncle for a husband, and the nephew for
a lover, that is intelligible enough. The game would have been a dangerous one. But there is
no reason why you should not say it plainly between friends."

"I tell you, Quinto, I won't hear you speak to me in that tone," said Bianca, turning on him
fiercely, and with flashing eyes. "Did I ever do anything to attract him?" she added,--"did
I try to make him love me? Do you think that the Venetian would have stood in the way if I
had chosen to do so? I never did! I meant, if the Marchese would make me his wife, to be true
and loyal to him; though he himself seems to think it impossible that I should be so. You know
that I have never attempted to attract Ludovico in any way."

"Very well then; let his Venetian have him in peace," said Quinto, shrugging his shoulders.

"Why, then, does that girl hate me as she does? What harm have I ever done her?" returned Bianca.

"Why should you think she does hate you?" expostulated Quinto.

"I have told you that I saw it. I saw it in her eyes when Ludovico was handing me the bouquet;--which
he only did because his uncle told him to do it. She would have blasted me to death with her
look at that moment if she could have done it;--I have a good mind--a very good mind--"

"Be guided by me this once for the last time, as you have so often been before; bambina mia,"
said Quinto, who thought that he now understood the real state of the case; "make sure of your
own game first. Make all safe with the Marchese Lamberto. When you are the Marchesa di Castelmare
it will be time to take any revenge on the Venetian you please."

"Ah--h--h--h!" sighed Bianca, shaking her head with an expression of disgust; "you understand
nothing about it, Quinto; you can't--of course you can't. Gia," she continued, after a pause
of thought; "yes, I could take from her, poor fool, what she has; but could I, Bianca Lalli,
take it and keep it for myself? Ah me, it is weary work! You might as well go and flaner, Quinto;
for I must dress ready for the Marchese, in case he comes this morning."

"He'll come sure enough," said Quinto; as he prepared to leave the room.

"It's quite time, then, that I made myself ready to receive him," returned Bianca, getting
up from the sofa.

"Amo il zeffiro, perche a lui suo nome confido," she sang, as she turned listlessly to go to
her chamber; and despite what she had said--and said with perfect sincerity to her adopted
father--it may be feared that the suo did not refer in the singer's mind to the Marchese Lamberto.

Quinto Lalli was in the act of shutting the sitting-room door behind him, when the outer door
of the apartment opened and Ludovico appeared in the doorway. He was the very last man whom
Quinto, with the ideas in his head which the above conversation with Bianca had put into it,
would have wished to see there. And perhaps there was something in his manner of meeting the
visitor that enabled the Marchesino to perceive that he was not just then welcome.

"A thousand pardons," he said, in an easy, careless manner, "for coming at so indiscreetly
early an hour; but I could not refrain from just saying one word to the Signorina Bianca on
her last night's triumph, and I shall have no opportunity of seeing her later in the day."

"Bianca," called out Quinto, re-opening the door he was closing, and putting his head back
into the room, "here's the Marchese Ludovico wishes to speak to you." If the old man had not
been a little bit out of humour with his adopted daughter he would probably have found some
excuse for getting rid of the inopportune visitor.

"Pray let the Signor Marchese come in," returned Bianca, turning back from the door of her
bed-room, rather to the surprise of Signor Quinto;--and Ludovico passed on into the sitting-room
as the old man went out and shut the outer door behind him.

Bianca, as she had said, had been about to dress to receive the Marchese Lamberto; and Ludovico
thus caught her (really. surprised this time) in her morning toilette. But there was nothing
in her dress to prevent her from being with propriety presentable, or, indeed, to prevent her
from looking very charming in her dishabille. Nevertheless, she did not intend, as we have
seen, to present herself without further adornment to the Marchese Lamberto; and it was not
without a certain feeling of bitterness at her heart that she said to herself, "What does it
signify?" as she cast a glance at her looking-glass before stepping back into the sitting-room
to receive her visitor.

"Really, Signora, I don't know how to apologize sufficiently for thus breaking in upon you,"
said Ludovico, coming forward to meet her; "but I could not refrain from calling to say one
word of congratulation. Can you forgive me?"

"I hardly know whether I can," said Bianca, half pouting and half laughing, and looking wholly
beautiful; "to be seen when they are not fit to be seen is an offence which we others, women,
find it difficult to forgive, you know."

"But that is an offence which, in the nature of things, cannot be committed against the Signora
Bianca Lalli," retorted Ludovico, with a low bow, half earnest and half in fun, and a look
of admiration that was entirely sincere. "But the fact is," he continued, "that I really was
impatient to be the first to make you my compliments on last night's immense success. To tell
you that I never heard a part sung as you sang that of Amina last night would, perhaps, appear
to you to be saying little. But I do assure you the whole city is saying that there never was
anything like it. It was superb! Perfect! Perhaps the praise of all Ravenna is not worth very
much to one who has had that of all Italy. But, at all events, my uncle is a competent judge--and
he is not an easy one. And I do assure you he was moved as I never saw him moved by music before."

"He is very good--too kind to me. He was good enough to see me to my carriage at the theatre
last night; and he said some word that makes me think he purposes doing me the honour of coming
here to give me the advantage of his criticism on last night's performance," said Bianca, who
was anxious to let her visitor understand the desirability of avoiding being caught there by
his uncle.

"Yes, I am sure he would not fail to bring his tribute of admiration this morning," returned
Ludovico, carelessly; "but he will not be here yet awhile. He is an early man in general, lo
zio; but he has not been well latterly. You must have seen yourself, Signorina, how changed
he is since you have known him. I really begin to be uneasy about him. You must surely have
observed how ill he is looking."

"I am so grieved to hear you say so. Of course any change must be far more evident to those
who have known him all his life. But I should have said that I had rarely or never seen so
remarkably young-looking a man for his years. The Marchese happened to tell me once that he
is fifty or not far from it. It seemed to me impossible to believe it," said Bianca, who understood
perfectly well how and why it came to pass that the Marchese should latterly be a changed man.

"Three months ago he might have well passed for five-and-thirty; but, per Bacco, he looks his
years now every day of them--and more, too, il povero zio."

"Nay, Signor Ludovico, I think your regard for your uncle makes you think him worse than he
is. I thought he was looking very well at the theatre last night," replied Bianca, knowing
nothing more to the purpose to say.

"At the theatre. Ah! perhaps. He was pleased and excited. I did not specially remark him last
night. But, the truth is, I am not easy about him."

"I feel very much persuaded, Signor Ludovico, that you are alarming yourself unnecessarily.
Your fears are excited by your affection for your uncle. I doubt whether many nephews in your
position, Signor Marchese, would feel as much anxiety about the health of an uncle whose heirs
they were; not that I mean, of course, Signor, to insinuate that you are dependent on your
uncle," added Bianca, who felt considerable curiosity to know how matters stood in the Castelmare
family in this respect.

"Faith, though, I am dependent on him," returned Ludovico, with the most careless frankness.
"I have not a bajocco in the world but what comes to me from him. But lo zio is more generous
than uncles often are to their nephews who are to be their heirs. And I am in no hurry to succeed
to him, I assure you."

"I am sure that would not be in your nature in any case, Signor Ludovico," returned Bianca;
"but there is some excuse for those being in a hurry whose future depends on the caprice of
old people," she added, fishing for further information.

"But my future does depend upon his caprice--in one way, at all events. Suppose my uncle should
take it into his head to marry, and have a family. There is nothing to prevent him. Many an
older man than he by a great deal has done so. And if that were to happen, there is not a beggar
in all Ravenna who is a poorer man than I should be. Only that lo zio is about the most unlikely
man to marry in all Italy, it is a thing that might happen any day."

"Why should the Signor Marchese be so unlikely to marry? One would say, to look at him, that
it was not such an unlikely thing. Suppose some designing woman were to make the attempt?"

"There does not exist the woman who could have the faintest shadow of success in such an enterprise,
Signora. If you could tell how often the thing has been tried! He is seasoned, lo zio is. Besides,
he never was a man given much to falling in love at any time of his life. I don't think he
is much an admirer of the sex, to tell you the truth. No; there is no fear of that."

There was a silence of some minutes, and Bianca seemed to have fallen into a reverie; till,
suddenly, raising her eyes, which had fallen beneath their lashes, while she had been busy
with her thoughts, she said, looking up archly into Ludovico's face:

"Your attention, at all events, was not so fully occupied by the performance last night, Signor,
but that you had plenty of thoughts and eyes at command for other matters."

"What do you mean, Signora? I am sure I was not only an attentive but a delighted listener,"
said he, while the tell-tale blood flushed his cheeks.

"Ah! I saw which way your glances and thoughts were wandering. We artists see more things in
the salle than you of the world before the foot-lights think for. A very pretty little brunette,
in No. 10 on the upper tier, was quite equally aware of the direction of the Marchese Ludovico's
thoughts and looks."

"You might have seen not only my thoughts but me myself in the same box, Signora, if you could
have continued your observations after the curtain was down. The lady you saw there is one
for whom I have the highest possible regard," said Ludovico, with a very slight shade of hauteur
quite foreign to his usual manner, in his tone.

It was very slightly marked, but not so slightly as to escape the notice of Bianca, who perfectly
well understood it and the meaning of it.

"I dare say she well deserves it; she looks as if she did," said the Diva, with a pensive air,
and a dash of melancholy in her voice. "I have often wondered," she continued, after a moment's
pause, "whether you others, grand signori, ever ask yourselves, when you bestow such regards
as you speak of on a poor artist--I know who she is, merely an artist like myself--what the
result to the woman so loved is likely to be?"

"Signora!" cried Ludovico, provoked, exactly as Bianca had intended he should be, into saying
what he would not otherwise have allowed to escape him, "permit me to assure you that, however
pertinent such speculations may be in other cases, which have doubtless fallen under your observation,
they are altogether the reverse of pertinent in the present instance. The lady in question
is, as you say, a poor artist; not, perhaps, as you were also kind enough to say, one quite
of the same kind as yourself, neither so successful nor so celebrated"--he hastened to add
as he saw a sudden paleness come over the face of the singer, and an expression sudden and
rapidly repressed and effaced, of such a concentration of wrath and hatred in her eyes, that
momentary as it was, pulled him up short with something very much akin to a feeling resembling
fear--"an artist neither so successful nor so celebrated as the Signora Lalli, but, nevertheless,
a lady whom it is the dearest wish of my heart to call my wife."

"She is indeed, then, a most fortunate and happy woman," said Bianca, who had perfectly recovered
herself, with grave gentleness; "and I am sure that neither I nor any sister artist have any
right to envy her her happiness. Would it seem presumption in a poor comedian to express her
earnest wish that you, too, Signor Ludovico, may find your happiness in such a marriage?"

"Nay, don't speak in that tone!" said Ludovico, putting out his hand and taking hers, which
she readily gave him. "I accept your good wishes, Signora, most thankfully. I do hope and think
that I--that we shall find happiness in our mutual choice. But, pray observe, Signora, that
our talk has led me into confiding a secret to you, that I have, as yet, told to no living
soul, and that it is important to me it should be kept secret yet awhile longer. I know I may
trust you; may I not?"

"Depend on it, Signor Marchese, your secret shall be quite safe with me. But are you sure it
is a secret? And then, do you know," continued the Diva, resuming her air of pensive thought,
"when I hear a man in your position speaking with such noble truthfulness, the converse of
the thought that I angered you--very innocently, believe me--by expressing just now, comes
into my head. And I ask myself, if women in such a position as the lady we speak of, are apt
to take themselves to task with sufficient strictness, as to what they are giving in return
for all that is offered to them."

"I don't quite understand your meaning, Signora," said Ludovico, who really did not perceive
the drift of his companion's words.

"I mean that a woman, so circumstanced, ought to be very sure that she is giving her heart
to the man who asks for it, and not to his position, not to the advantages, to the wealth he
offers her. She ought to feel certain that, if all this--the advantages--the wealth were to
vanish and fly away, her love would remain the same. Suppose now--it is out of the question,
you tell me, but the case may be imagined all the same--suppose your uncle, the Marchese, were
to marry, would the Venetian lady's love suffer no tittle of falling off?"

The red blood rushed to Ludovico's cheeks and brow, and then came an angry gleam into his eyes.
It was not that he resented the liberty which his companion took in thus speaking to him. It
was not, either, that he felt indignant at the doubt cast, even hypothetically, on the purity
of his Paolina's love. It was rather the unreasoning animal anger against the person who had
given him pain. It was a stab to his heart, this germ of a doubt thus placed there for the
first time. He was conscious of the pang, and resented it. In the next minute the hot flush
passed from his face, and he became very pale.

Bianca saw, and understood it all, as perfectly as if she could have seen into his heart and brain.

"The doubt, you put before me, is so horrible an one that I could almost wish it might be put
to the test you speak of. But I have no such doubt. However much your questioning may be justified
by other examples, it is not justified in the case of Paolina. I know her; I know her heart,
and the perfect truthfulness that wells up from the depths of her honest eyes."

No amount of ready histrionism was sufficient to prevent a very meaning, though momentary,
sneer from passing over the beautiful face of the singer as Ludovico spoke thus. But he was
too much excited by his own thoughts and words to perceive it.

"I trust that you may be right, Signor Marchese. I have no doubt that you are right. Believe
me that I have ventured to speak as I have spoken, solely from interest in the welfare of one
who has been so uniformly good and kind to me as you have. Will you believe me, Signor Ludovico,
that I would do a good deal and bear a good deal to be able to conduce to your happiness in
any way?"

She put out her hand to him, as she spoke the last words, with her eyes dropped to the ground,
and with a feeling of genuine shyness, that was quite surprising and puzzling to herself.

"Dear Signora, I will and do believe it with all my heart; and, in truth, I am deeply grateful
to you for your good will," said Ludovico, really touched by the evident and genuine sincerity
of her words.

"And now, I must ask you to leave me. I must dress myself and lose no time about it. The Marchese
will be here in a minute or two. And I could not, you know, venture to receive him in the unceremonious
manner which you have been good enough to excuse."

She gave him a little sidelong look with half a laugh in her eyes, as she said the latter words;
and Ludovico, putting the tips of her fingers to his lips before relinquishing her hand, bowed,
and left her without saying anything further.

CHAPTER VI

Paolina at Home

Ludovico had run up in a hurry to Bianca's lodging, as has been seen, merely because it happened
to be in his way, and because he had been desirous, as he told her, of paying her his compliments
on the success of the preceding evening. He was hastening to pay another visit, in which his
heart was far more interested, and had not intended to remain with La Lalli above five minutes.
The conversation between them had extended to a greater length; and the Marchesino, eager as
he was to get to the dear little room in the Via di Sta. Eufemia, would have made it still
longer, had not the Diva dismissed him.

The talk between them had become far more interesting than any which he had thought likely
to pass between him and the famous singer. This horrible doubt--no, not a doubt--he had not,
would not, could not doubt; but this germ of a doubt deposited in his mind by the words she
had spoken? Could she have had any second motive for speaking as she had done? Surely not;
surely all her manner and her words showed sufficiently clearly that she was actuated by kindly
feelings towards him and by no unkindly feeling towards Paolina. Yet unquestionably Paolina's
instinctive prejudice against her would not have been diminished by a knowledge of what the
Diva had said. Ludovico thought of the bitter and burning indignation with which his darling
would have heard the expression of the possibility of a doubt of the uncalculating purity and
earnestness of her love.

Nevertheless he felt that he should have liked to talk further with Bianca on the subject;
of course only to convince her of the absolute injustice of her suspicions. Still she was a
woman, a fellow artist; placed in some respects in the same position in relation to the world
to which he belonged, as his Paolina--in some respects similar; but oh, thank God, how different!
Yet women understood each other in a way a man could never hope to understand them. What immediately
struck Bianca, struck her naturally and instinctively in this matter of a marriage between
him and the Venetian artist, was the idea that Paolina, almost as a matter of course, was at
least biassed in her acceptance of his love by a consideration of the material advantages she
would gain by it. It was the natural thing then, the thing a priori to be expected, that a
girl in Paolina's position should be so influenced. Ludovico would fain have questioned and
cross-questioned La Bianca, his experienced monitress, a little more on this point.

Yes, to be expected a priori. But when one knew Paolina; when one knew her as he knew her,
was it not impossible? Could it be that Paolina, being such as he knew her in his inmost heart
to be, should even adulterate her love with interested calculations? He knew it was not so;
and yet--and yet other men had been as certain as he, and had been deceived. In short the germ
of doubt had been planted in his mind. And Bianca well knew what she had been about when she
planted it there.

Why had she done so? She spoke with perfect sincerity when she had told him that she would
do much and suffer much for his happiness. And yet she had knowingly placed this thorn in his
heart. Why could she not let him, as Quinto Lalli had expressed it, have his Venetian in peace?
She spoke truly, moreover, when she said that, married to the Marchese Lamberto, she fully
purposed to make him a good and true wife; truly, when she declared to old Lalli, and also
to her own heart, that she really did like and admire him much. And yet there was something
in the sight of the love of Ludovico and Paolina that was bitter, odious, intolerable to her.

Ludovico hastened to the house in the Via di Santa Eufemia on quitting that in the Via di Porta
Sisi, not unhappy, not even uneasy; with no recognized doubt, but with a germ of doubt in his mind.

Signora Orsola had gone out per fare le spese, to make the marketings for the day; and he found
Paolina alone. Such a tete-a- tete would have been altogether contrary to all rules in the
more strictly regulated circles of Italian society. And it would have been all the more, and
by no means the less contrary to rule in consequence of the position in which Ludovico and
Paolina stood towards each other. But the world to which Paolina belonged lives under a different
code in these matters. And ever since the day in which the memorable conversation between her
and her lover, which has been recorded in a former chapter, had taken place, Paolina had never
felt the smallest embarrassment or even shyness in her intercourse with him. And she received
him now with openly expressed rejoicing, that the chance of Orsola's absence gave them the
opportunity of being for a little while alone together.

"I called at this early hour, tesoro mio," said Ludovico, "mainly to tell you that I have made
all the necessary arrangements at St. Apollinare in Classe, and you can begin your work there
as soon as you like. What a dreary place it is. To think of my little Paolina working, working
away all by herself in that dismal old barn of a church out there amid the swamps!"

"Oh, I shan't be a bit afraid. I am so accustomed to work all by myself."

"No, there is nothing to be afraid of! Do you think I should let you go there alone, if there
were? You will find the scaffolding all ready for you."

"Thanks, dearest, I am so much obliged to you; I should never have been able to get my task
done without your help. Ah, how strange things are! To think, that that Englishman, in sending
me here, should have been--"

"Should have been sending me my destined wife. Who ever in the world did me so great a service
as this Signor Vilobe, who never had a thought of me in his mind."

"And if I had chanced not to be in the gallery at the Belle Arti that day," rejoined Paolina,
with a shudder at the thought of what the consequences of such an absence would have been.

"You will have the great church entirely to yourself, anima mia," said Ludovico; "there is
not a soul near the place, save the old monk, who keeps the keys, and a lay-brother, who was
ill, the poor old frate said, when I was there. It is a dreary place, my Paolina, and I am
afraid you will find your task a weary one. I fear it will be cold too."

"Oh, I don't mind that much! What is more important, is to get the job done before the hot
weather comes on. They say it is so unhealthy out there, when the heat comes. What is the old
frate like?"

"He is a very old, old man, and he looks as if fever and ague every summer and autumn had pretty
nearly made an end of him. He seemed quite inclined to be civil and obliging. If he were not,
you could knock him down with a tap of your maulstick, I should think, though it be wielded
by such a tiny, dainty little bit of a hand," said Ludovico, lifting it to his lips between
both his as he spoke. "And now tell me," he continued; "what did you think of the third act
last night? Did she not sing that finale superbly?"

"Superbly,--certainly the finest singing I heard. But--"

"What is the `but,' anima mia? I confess I thought it perfect."

"So I suppose it was. But I think that perhaps I should have had more pleasure in hearing a
less magnificent singer, who was more simpatica to me. I can't help it, but I do not like her;
and I am sure I can't tell why. I have no reason; but do you know, Ludovico mio, there was
one moment when, strange as it may seem, our eyes met--hers and mine--in the theatre last night.
It was just as she turned away from your box, when you had put the bouquet into her hand. She
looked up, and our eyes met; and I can't tell you the strange feeling and impression that her
look made upon me. And I am quite sure that, for some unaccountable reason or other, she does
not like me. She looked at me--it was only half a moment with a sort of mocking triumph and
hatred in her eyes, that quite made me shudder and turn cold.

"If it were not so entirely impossible, I should think you were jealous, my little Paolina.
If I were to--what shall we say?--if I were to set out on a journey with la Diva, tete-a-tete,
to travel from here to Rome, should you be jealous?"

"With La Bianca?"

"Yes! with La Bianca."

"I don't know. I don't think that I should in earnest. I know in my inmost heart, my own love,
that you love me truly and entirely; I feel it, I am sure of it. But all the same, I should
rather that you did not travel from here to Rome alone with La Lalli."

"That means that, to a certain degree, you are jealous, little one. Do you think I should be
uneasy if you were called on to travel under the escort, for example, of our friend the Conte
Leandro?"

"The Conte Leandro!" cried Paolina, laughing, "I am sure you ought to be uneasy at the bare
thought of such a thing, for you know how terrible it would be to me. But is it quite the same
thing, amico mio? La Lalli is indisputably a very beautiful woman; and the Conte Leandro is--the
Conte Leandro. But it is not that she is beautiful. I don't know what it is. There is something
about her--ecco, I should not the least mind now your travelling to the world's end, or being
occupied in any other way, with the Contessa Violante."

"She is not a beautiful woman, certainly."

"She is, at all events, fifty times more pleasing-looking, as well as more attractive in every
way, than the Conte Leandro. But that is not what makes the difference. I take it, the difference
is, that one feels that the Contessa Violante is good, and that nobody would get anything but
good from her. I have got quite to love her myself."

"And yet you see, Paolina mia, somehow or other it came to pass that I could not love her,
when I was bid to do so; and, in the place of doing that, I went and loved somebody else instead.
How is that to be accounted for, eh?"

"I am sure that is more than I can guess, Ludovico."

"One thing is clear--and a very good thing it is--that Violante has no more desire to marry
me than I have to marry her. As soon as ever Carnival is over, my own darling, I mean to speak
definitively to my uncle, and tell him, in the first place, that he must give up all notion
of a marriage between Violante and me."

"As soon as Carnival is over. Why, that will be the day after to- morrow,"--said Paolina, flushing
all over.

"Exactly so; the day after to-morrow. But I mean only to tell him, in the first instance, that
I cannot make the marriage he would have me. Then, when that is settled--and some little time
allowed for him to get over his mortification, il povero zio--will come the announcement of
the marriage I can make. I have quite fixed with myself to do it the day after to-morrow. But--I
don't know what to make of my uncle. He is not in the least like himself. I am afraid he must
be ill. I fully expected that I should have to fight all through Carnival against constant
exhortations to pay my court to the Contessa. But he has never spoken to me a word on the subject."

"Perhaps he has discovered that the lady likes the proposal no better than you do," suggested
Paolina, with a wise look of child- like gravity up at her lover's face.

"No; it's not that. He never dreams of her having any will in the matter apart from that of
her family. I can't make him out. There's something wrong with him. He looks a dozen years
older than he did; and his habits are changed too."

"Do you think--that is--it has just come into my head--do you remember, Ludovico, what I said
to you last night at the theatre about the way La Lalli sung her love verses at him?"

"La Lalli again. Why, she has fascinated you at all events. You can think of nothing else.
La Lalli and lo zio. Dio mio! If you only knew him. All the prime donne in Europe might sing
at him, or make eyes at him, or make love to him, in any manner they liked from morning till
night without making any more impression on him than a hundred years, more or less, on the
tomb of the Emperor Theodoric out there. No, anima mia, that's not it. No, il povero zio, I
am more inclined to think that he is breaking up. It does happen, sometimes, that your men,
who have never known a day's illness in their lives, break down all of a sudden in that way.
Everybody in the city has been saying that he is changed and ill. But I must be off, my darling.
I only came to tell you that all was in readiness for you at St. Apollinare. At least that
was my excuse for coming. But now I must go and see about all sorts of things for the reception
to-night. We shall have all the world at the Palazzo to- night. And lo zio asked me to see
to everything. Addio, Paolina mia. You know where my heart will be all the time. Addio, anima mia."

CHAPTER VII

Two Interviews

After Ludovico had passed into the sitting-room in the Via di Porta Sisi to pay his visit to
Bianca, Quinto Lalli prepared to leave the house in accordance with her suggestion that he
should dispose of himself out-of-doors for the present. But before going he called Gigia the
maid, and said, as he stood with the door in his hand:

"Gigia, cara mia, the Marchese Lamberto is coming here presently; just make use of your sharp
ears to hear what passes between him and Bianca; and take heed to it, you understand, so as
to be able to give an account of it afterwards if it should be needed. You need not say anything
about it to la bambina till afterwards; I have no secrets from her, you know, and, as soon
as the Marchese is gone, you may tell her that you have heard everything, and that I directed
you to do so; but better to say nothing about it beforehand. Inteso?"

"Si, si, Signor Quinto! Lasci fare a me!"

And, with that, the careful old man went out for his walk, and it was not half-an-hour after
Ludovico left the house before the Marchese made his appearance.

Bianca, now having completed her toilette, started from her sofa, and went forward to meet
him with both hands extended, and with one of her sunniest smiles.

"This is kind of you, Signor Marchese. I hoped, ah! how I hoped, that you would come. If you
had not, I don't know what would have become of me. My heart was already sinking with the dreadful
fear that my little note might have displeased you. But, thank God, you are here: and that
is enough."

"Of course, Bianca, I came when you begged me to do so," said the Marchese, looking at her
with a sort of sad wistfulness, and retaining both her hands in his. He advanced his face to
kiss her, and she stooped her head so as to permit him to press his lips to her forehead.

"Was it of course, amore mio?" she said, with a gushing look of exquisite happiness, and a
little movement towards clasping his hand, which still held hers, to her heart. "Was it of
course that you should come to your own, own Bianca when she begged it? But you are looking
fagged, harassed, troubled, mio bene: have you had anything to vex you? Henceforward, you know,
all that is trouble to you is trouble to me. I shall insist on sharing your sorrows as well
as your joys, Lamberto. What is it that has annoyed you, amore mio?"

"I have much on my mind--necessarily, Bianca mia; many things that are not pleasant to think
of. Can you not guess as much?"

"I have had but one thought, amico mio, since I heard from your lips the dear words that told
me that henceforward we should be but one; that our lives, our hopes, our fears, would be the
same; that, in the sight of God and man, you would be my husband, and I your wife. Since then,
I have had but one thought, and it is one which would avail to gild all others, let them be
what they might, with its brightness. Is the same thought as sweet a source of happiness to
you, my promised husband?"

"That's clear enough, I hope," thought Gigia, outside the door, to herself. "Che! If nothing
had been said the other day, that would be enough; and I think Quinto might trust nostra bambina
to manage her own affairs. She knows what she is about, the dear child: not but that it is
a good plan to be able to remind a gentleman in case he should forget. Gentlemen will forget
such things sometimes."

"You cannot doubt my love," said the Marchese, in reply to her appeal.

Those five words may possibly, in the course of the world's history, have occurred before in
the same combination. But the phrase served the occasion as well as if it had been entirely
new and original.

"Indeed, I do not, Lamberto; nor will you again, I trust, ever doubt mine as you seemed to
do last night. Ah, Lamberto! you do not know how bitterly I wept over the remembrance of those
cruel words when I had parted from you. You will never, never say such again. Tell me you never
will."

"Doubts and fears, my Bianca, are the inevitable companions of such a love as mine," said the
Marchese, with a somewhat sickly smile; "but the few words you said last night sufficed to
dissipate them, as I assured you."

"But there is still something troubling your mind, Lamberto. See, I already take the wifely
privilege you have given me to wish to share all that annoys you. What is it? Come and sit
by me here on the sofa, and tell me all about it."

And then the Marchese sat himself in the seat of danger that had been proposed to him, and,
in a certain degree, explained to Bianca the difficulties attending a marriage with her. He
tried hard to recommend to her favourable consideration the plan of a secret marriage--of a
marriage to be kept secret, at all events, for awhile for the present; but such an arrangement,
as may easily be understood, did not, in Bianca's view, meet the requirements of the case.
That was not what she wanted. It may also be easily understood that the Marchese, occupying
the position which the enemy had assigned to him, carried on the contest at an overpowering
disadvantage, and was finally routed, utterly conquered, and yielded at discretion.

On her side the advantages of the situation were made the most of with the most consummate
generalship. The limit between that which was permitted to him, and that which was denied to
him, was drawn with a firmness and judgment admirably conducive to the attainment of the end
in view. He was permitted to encircle the slender, yielding waist with one arm as he sat by
her side on the sofa, and to retain possession of her hand with the other; but any advanced
movement from this base of operations was firmly and unhesitatingly repressed. At one moment,
when the attacking party seemed to be on the point of pressing his advances with more vigour
than before, it chanced that the Diva coughed; and it so happened that, in the next instant,
Gigia entered the room, bringing wood for the fire in her arms--a diversion which, of course,
involved the execution of a hurried movement of retreat on the part of the enemy.

The whole of Bianca's tactics, indeed, were admirable. And the result was, as usual, victory.
Once again, as long as he was in her presence and by her side, the unfortunate Marchese felt
that the spell was irresistible--absolutely irresistible by any force of volition that he was
able to oppose to it. Once again it seemed to him that the only thing in the world that it
was utterly impossible to him to relinquish was the possession of Bianca. The hot fit of his
fever was on him in all its intensity; and there was nothing that he could do, or suffer, or
undergo that he would not rather do, or suffer, or undergo than admit the thought of giving
her up. It really seemed as if there were some physical emanation from her person--some magnetic
stream--some distillation from the nervous system of one organization mysteriously potent over
the nervous system of another, which mounted to his brain, mastered the sources of his volition,
and drew him helpless after her, as helplessly as the magnetized patient obeys the will of
his magnetizer.

Suddenly both of them heard one o'clock strike from the neighbouring church. To the Marchese
it was a knell which, with horrid warning- note, dragged him forcibly back from his Circean
dalliance to the thoughts, the things, and the people whose incompatibility with the possibility
of such dalliance was driving him mad. It was the hour at which he had promised to wait upon
the Cardinal. It was absolutely necessary that he should go at once; and he tore himself away
from that fatal sofa-seat with a wrench, and a reflection on the purpose of his visit to the
Legate, which seemed to him really to threaten to disturb his reason.

Slinkingly he stole from the house in the Strada di Porta Sisi, and hurried to the Cardinal's
palace. His mind seemed to reel, and a cold sweat broke out all over him as he rang the bell
at the top of the great stone stair of the Legate's dwelling.

This business that he was now here for--those high honours which were about to be lavished
upon him--would they not all make his position so much the worse? The higher he stood, would
not his fall be the more terrible? What would be said or thought of him? At Rome, immediately
after the high distinction shown him, what would they not say? Here, in Ravenna, how should
he look his fellow-citizens in the face? Impossible, impossible. Could he venture even to accept
the high distinction offered to him? Would there not be something dishonourable--a sort of
treachery in suffering this mark of the Holy Father's special favour to be bestowed upon him,
while he was meditating to do that which, if his intention were known, would make it quite
impossible that any such honour should be conferred on him?

And how fair was life before him, as it would be if only this fatal woman had never crossed
his path? And was it not even yet in his own power to make it equally fair again? Was it not
sufficient for him to will that it should be so?

What if he never saw Bianca again? What could avail any nonsense she or her pretended father
might talk of him? If they were to declare on the house-tops that he had promised marriage
to La Lalli, what human being in all the city would believe them? The very notion that such
a thing could be possible would be treated as the impudent invention of people who clearly
had not the smallest knowledge of the man they were attempting to practise on. No, he had but
to will it to be free. If only he could will it.

And with these thoughts passing through his mind he entered the receiving-room of the Legate.

It was impossible to be received more cordially than he was by that high dignitary. His Eminence
felt sure that his old acquaintance and highly-valued good friend the Marchese was aware how
great his (the Cardinal's) pleasure had been in discharging the duty that had devolved upon
him. The letter he had that morning received from the Cardinal Secretary was a most flattering
one. Perhaps he (the Cardinal) might take some credit to himself for having performed a friend's
part, as was natural, in keeping them at Rome well acquainted with the singular merits of the
Marchese. He would, indeed, have been neglecting his duty if he had done otherwise.

Then, after alluding lightly and gracefully to the special interest he could not but feel,
in his private capacity, in any honour which tended yet more highly to distinguish a family
with which he trusted his own might at no distant day be allied, he told the Marchese that
it was probable that nothing would be done in the matter till after Easter.

It was the gracious wish of the Holy Father to enhance the honour bestowed by conferring it
with his own apostolic hand; and, doubtless, as soon as Lent should be over, it would be intimated
to the Marchese that the Holy Father was desirous of seeing him at Rome. When he came back
thence his fellow-citizens would, in all probability, wish to mark, by some little festivity
or otherwise, with which he, on the part of the government, should have great pleasure in associating
himself, their sense of the honour done to their city in the person of its most distinguished
citizen.

The Marchese, while the Cardinal Legate was making all these gracious communications, strove
to look as "like the time" and the occasion as he could. At first it was very difficult to
him to do so at all satisfactorily. The influence of that other interview, from which he had
so recently come, was too strong upon him. All the images and ideas called up by the Cardinal's
words were too violently at variance, and too incompatible with those other desires and thoughts
to affect him otherwise than as raising additional obstacles and piling up more and more difficulties
in the path before him. But, as the interview with the courteous and dignified churchman proceeded,--as
the genius loci of the Cardinal's library began to exert its influence--as all the hopes and
ambitions and prospects which were opened before his eyes, falling into their natural and proper
connection of continuity with all his former life, so linked the present moment with that past
life as to make all that had filled the last few weeks seem like a fevered dream,-- gradually
the Marchese entered more and more into the spirit of the Cardinal's conversation. Gradually
all that he had hitherto lived for came to seem to him again to be all that was worth living
for. Old habitual thoughts and ideas, the growth and outcome of a whole life, once again asserted
their wonted supremacy; and the Marchese Lamberto marvelled that it should be possible for
that to happen to him which had happened to him.

Ah! if only weak men were as prone to run away from temptation as they are to run away from
the difficulties that are created by yielding to it. But they are ever as brave to run the
risks of confronting the tempter, as cowardly to face the results of having done so.

The Cardinal had not failed to mark the air of constraint and dispirited lassitude which had
characterized the Marchese during the commencement of their conversation. And he, as others
had done, attributed it to the supposition that the Marchese was very rapidly growing old--likely
enough, was breaking up. Nor did he less observe the very notable change in him as their interview
proceeded--the result, as the churchman flattered himself, of the charms of his own eloquence
and felicitous manner. He was himself a good twenty years older than the Marchese; but he had
been put into great good humour that morning by private letters accompanying the official despatch
that has been mentioned, which had hinted at favourable possibilities in the future as to certain
ambitious hopes that had rarely failed to busy his brain every night as he laid it on the pillow
for many a year. So he smiled inwardly a gentle moralizing smile as he thought how gratified
ambition had power to stir up the flagging passions and stimulate the sinking energies even
as the golden bowl is on the eve of being broken.

The Marchese, however, left the Cardinal's presence a much happier man for the nonce than he
had entered it, his mental vision filled with pictures of ribbons, stars and crosses, with,
perhaps, a statue--between the two ancient columns in the Piazza Maggiore would be an excellent
site--in the background.

Ah! if only he could have had the courage to run away from temptation.

CHAPTER VIII

A Carnival Reception

On that Monday night all the world of Ravenna were assembled in the suite of state-rooms on
the piano noble of the Palazzo di Castelmare. The cards of invitation had announced that masks
would be welcomed by the noble host; and a large number of the younger portion of the society
accordingly presented themselves in dominoes and the silk half-masks which are usually worn
in conjunction with them. But very few of either ladies or gentlemen came in character. Such
costumes were mostly reserved for the ball, which was to take place at the Circolo dei Nobili
on the following evening. That was of course the wind-up of the Carnival; and besides it was
felt, that a shade or two more of licence and of the ascendancy of the Lord of Misrule might
fitly be permissible at the Circolo, than was quite de mise in the rooms of so grave and reverend
a Signor as the Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare.

A few determined revellers would lose no opportunity of enjoying the delight of dressing themselves
up in costumes, which they deemed specially adapted to show off to advantage either their physical
perfections or their intellectual and social pretensions. Sometimes, as may have been observed
by those who have witnessed such revelries, it unfortunately happens that both the above desirable
results are not quite compatible. Our friend the Conte Leandro, for instance, having determined
to appear at the Circolo ball in the character of Dante--which, for a poet at Ravenna, was
a very proper and natural selection--presented himself at the Palazzo Castelmare in that of
Apollo--an equally well-imagined presentation; had it not been that the happy intellectual
analogy was less striking to the vulgar eye, than the remarkable exhibition of knock-knees
and bow- legs resulting from the use of the "fleshings;" which constituted an indispensable
portion of the god's attire.

He carried in one hand what had very much the appearance of a gilt gridiron; but was intended
to represent a lyre; and in the other a paper, which was soon known to contain a poem of congratulation
addressed to the host, on the announcement which, all the city well knew by this time, had
been made to him that morning.

The rooms were thronged with black dominoes, and white dominoes, and pink, and scarlet, and
blue, and parti-coloured dominoes. Violante was there in a black domino, and Bianca in a white
one. There was very little dancing, but plenty of chattering and laughing. One main thing to
be done by every person there was to congratulate the host on his new honours. Our Conte Apollo,
among the rest, would fain have read his poem on the occasion. But as he approached the Marchese
for the purpose, a white silk domino, that was standing by the Marchese's side, burst into
such an uncontrollable fit of silvery and most musical, but too evidently uncomplimentary laughter,
that the poor god of song was too abashed by it to make head against it.

"Surely never had Apollo such a representative before," said the Marchese to his companion,
as the mortified god turned away.

"The voice, the face, the lyre, and the legs; oh, the legs!" said the silvery voice of the
white domino in return.

The words of both speakers had been uttered sotto voce; but the Conte Leandro had unfortunately
sharp ears; and not only heard what was said, but was at no loss to recognize the voice of
the second speaker.

The poor poet was destined not to find the evening an agreeable one. A little later he was
passing by an ottoman in one of the less crowded rooms, on which the Marchese Ludovico was
sitting with the Contessa Violante. She had, at an early period of the evening, abandoned all
pretence of keeping up her incognito, and was dangling her black mask from her finger by its
string as she sat talking to Ludovico. Leandro turned towards them to pay his compliments to
the Contessa, and possibly in the hope of being allowed to read his copy of verses. But here
again mortification awaited him.

"What, Aesop, Leandro! What put it into your head to choose the old story-teller for a model?
You look the part to perfection, it is true; but what is that thing you have got in your hand?"

Again his lordship was fain to retreat.

"What a shame to torment the poor man so, in your own house too, Signor Ludovico," said Violante,
who, nevertheless, could not help laughing.

"Not a bit, he's used to it. He is too absurd for anything; an egregious vain ass," returned
Ludovico; with very little precaution to prevent the object of his animadversions from hearing
them. And again Leandro's acute ears did him the ill service of carrying every word that had
been said to his understanding.

"Indeed I think her perfectly charming," said Violante, in continuation of the conversation,
which had been interrupted by the bow-legged vision of Apollo; "extremely pretty of course,--but
a great deal more than that. She is fresh, ingenuous, modest, full of sensibility, and as honest-hearted
as the day. You are a very fortunate man, Signor Ludovico, to have succeeded in winning such
a heart."

"How came it about at first, that you spoke to her?" asked Ludovico.

"Oh, I went into the chapel in the morning, as I very often do, to recite the litany of the
Virgin, and if she had remained on her scaffolding I should probably not have noticed her.
But she ran down in the most obliging manner, fearing that she might disturb me, and offering
to suspend her work, as long as I should remain at my devotions. It was so pretty of her, and
so prettily said!"

"And then you answered her as prettily, I suppose, Signora?"

"Nay, it is not in my power to do that," said Violante, with a touch of bitterness; "but I
told her, that she did not disturb me in the least; and I spoke to her of the work she was
engaged on; and she asked me to come up and look at it; and so we talked on till we became
very good friends."

"And then you were kind enough to converse with her on several subsequent occasions?"

"Oh, yes, we had several long talks; and I liked her so much. I am sure she is thoroughly good.
I rejoice with all my heart that a destiny, so much more brilliant than anything that could
have been expected for her, is likely to be hers."

"I wish, Signora Contessa, that it was more than likely to be hers; I wish that our path lay
clearer before us!" said Ludovico, with a sigh.

"Including me in the `us'? I wish it were with all my heart. But remember, Signor Marchese,
how much is possible to a man, and how little to a woman. All, that the strong expression of
my own wishes and feelings can do, shall be done when the proper time comes for the doing of
it. But you must not trust to that, or to me. You ought to save me from being compelled to
act at all in the matter. You are free to speak. And now that another besides me is so vitally
concerned, I think you ought to do so without further delay."

"And I have fully made up my mind to do it, Signora Contessa. I have told Paolina, this very
day, that I purpose speaking very seriously to my uncle on the subject on the day after to-morrow--the
first day in Lent. I thought I would let this Carnival time pass by first without breaking
in upon it, with business that cannot, I fear, be otherwise than painful. I have promised Paolina,
and am fully determined to speak to my uncle on Wednesday,"

"And what do you purpose saying to him?" asked Violante, looking into his face with quiet eyes.

"In the first instance I have no intention of speaking to him on the subject of Paolina--"

"No!" interrupted the Contessa, changing her look to one of surprise.

"Not to begin with, I think. To speak of my intention to make a marriage, which I cannot hope
will meet his approbation, would only make my rejection of the alliance, which he hopes to
see me form, the more difficult."

"Yes, that seems true; but I doubt whether you are right there. You will begin, then, by telling
him--?"

"I shall begin by saying that it seems clear to me, that I have little hope of any success
in the quarter in which he has wished me to--"

"Nay, that will not be quite fair, Signor Marchese," interrupted Violante, speaking very quietly.
"Can you honestly tell your uncle that you have made any very strenuous efforts in that direction?"

"But I thought, Signorina," said Ludovico, hastily; I surely had reason to suppose that I should
be speaking in support of your sentiments--quite as much as--

"Stay, Signor Marchese; excuse my interrupting you, but it is exactly on this point that I
wished to talk with you. Let us clearly understand each other. It is, no doubt, quite true
that if you and I had been left to ourselves, if no family-considerations had intervened to
suggest other views, neither of us would have been led by our own inclinations,--it is best
to speak openly and frankly,-- neither of us, I say, would have been led by our own inclinations
to think more of the other than as an old and valued acquaintance. This is the truth, is it not?"

"Nay, Signorina, can I say--"

"It is not fair, you would say," interrupted Violante again, "that I should force your gallantry
to make so painful an avowal. Nonsense! Let us put aside all such trash: the question is, not--how
we shall mutually make what the circumstances require us to say to each other agreeable to
the self-love of either of us, and to silly rules of conventional gallantry, but there is a
real question of fairness between us; and it is this: how much should each of us expect that
the other will contribute towards the difficult task of liberating both of us from engagements
we neither of us wish to undertake. You see, Signor Marchese, I have made up my mind to speak
clearly; more clearly than I could, I think, have ventured to do, had I not the advantage of
having had those conversations with my friend Paolina in the Cardinal's chapel."

"In what respect did it seem to you, that what I proposed saying to my uncle in the first instance,
was unfair, Signorina?"

"In this it would be unfair. To talk of your want of success in obtaining what you never sought
to obtain, is simply to throw on me the burden and the blame of disappointing the wishes and
plans of both our families. I am ready to do my part; but it would be unreasonable to expect
that it can be so active or so large a part as your own. It will not be for you to let it be
supposed that you are ready and willing to offer your hand to the Contessa Violante Marliani,
trusting to my refusal to accept it in the teeth of the wishes of my family. It is your duty
to say openly and plainly that you cannot make the marriage proposed to you. If I were in your
place--if I might venture to suggest, what I would myself counsel--I should add, as a reason--an
additional reason--that I had given my heart elsewhere."

"But, Signora, you forget that the marriage between us was proposed before I ever saw or heard
of Paolina," said Ludovico, with a naivete that should certainly have satisfied his companion
that he was no longer attempting to shape his discourse according to the rules of conventional
gallantry.

Violante, despite her gravity, could not forbear smiling, as she said in reply:

"Not at all, Signor. I do not in the least forget that before Paolina ever came to Ravenna,
you were no whit better disposed to second the wishes of our families."

"Nay, Signorina. I declare--"

"What, again! Do let us leave all such talk. Don't you see that we may frankly shake hands
on it. Don't you see that any pain that your indifference might have occasioned is entirely
salved by the consciousness that I have been as bad as you. We are equally rebels against the
destiny arranged for us. Let us fight the battle together then. I think that you would act
wisely in telling your uncle at once that it is impossible you should make any other woman
your wife than her who has your entire heart and affection. I think that this course is due
to Paolina also."

"I only wished to spare my uncle, as much as possible, in breaking to him what I know will
give him pain."

"People, who will wish what they ought not to wish, must endure the pain that the frustration
of such wishes entails. It is certainly your right to marry according to your own inclinations."

"Yes; and in truth, as far as real power goes, there is nothing to prevent my doing so. It
is truly a desire to break to my uncle, as gently as I can, that which will certainly be a
blow to him. He is not well, my uncle. He is deplorably changed since the beginning of this
year. Look at him, as he passes us," he added, as he observed the Marchese Lamberto approaching
the place where they were sitting, with the white satin domino on his arm.

"He is looking changed and ill, certainly," said Violante, when the Marchese had passed, apparently
without noticing them; "he looks thin and worn, and yet feverish and excited. Who is the lady
on his arm? She must be very tall."

Many of the assembled company had by this time, like the Contessa Violante, discarded their
masks, finding the heat, which always results from the use of them, oppressive, and not perceiving
that any further amusement was to be got by retaining them. But the white domino, leaning on
the Marchese's arm, still retained hers. It is not likely that Bianca herself could have had
any objection to its being seen by all Ravenna that she monopolized the attention of the Marchese
during the entire evening. And it is therefore probable that she had retained her disguise
in compliance with some hint given to that effect by the Marchese Lamberto.

"I take it it must be La Lalli, the prima donna. I know she is here to-night and in a white
domino, though I have not yet spoken to her. I am afraid my uncle must be tired and bored with
her. He always makes a point of showing those people attention; and besides he had so much
to do with bringing her here. I dare say we shall hear her once or twice again in this house
before she leaves Ravenna. My uncle is fond of getting up some good music in Lent, when he can."

"The Marchese Lamberto did not look to me as if he was tired or bored," said Violante, thoughtfully.
"I hope he is not. Here comes that absurd animal Leandro again. Did you ever see anything so
outrageously ridiculous?"

Ludovico and the Contessa then rose from their seats, and Violante taking his arm drew him
in the direction in which the Marchese Lamberto had led the white satin domino.

CHAPTER IX

Paolina's Return to the City

There remained now but one day more of that Carnival, which remained memorable for many years
afterwards in Ravenna, for the terrible catastrophe that marked its conclusion.

All that these people, whose passions, and hopes, and fears have been laid open to the reader,
were doing during those Carnival weeks was gradually leading up, after the manner of human
acts, to the terrible event which rounded off the action with such fatal completeness. And
the catastrophe was now at hand.

During the reception at the Castelmare palace on that night of the last day of Carnival but
one, the white domino, whom Ludovico had rightly supposed to be Bianca--a guess which had been
shared by many other persons in the room--had pretty exclusively occupied the attention of
the Marchese Lamberto. And it must be supposed that the resolution was then taken between them
which led to the summons of Signor Fortini, the family lawyer, to the palazzo on the first
day of Lent, as was related in the first book of this narrative. It was on the morning of Ash
Wednesday, it will be remembered, that the lawyer had received from the Marchese the formal
communication of his intention to marry the Signorina Bianca Lalli.

The reader knows, also, that what took place in the interval between the night of the reception
at the Palazzo Castelmare and the morning of the first day in Lent was not calculated, as might
have been supposed, to assist in bringing the mind of the Marchese to a final determination
to that effect. The terrible degree to which his jealousy and anger had been excited on the
night of the ball at the Circolo by Ludovico and Bianca will also not have been forgotten.
The conduct which had awakened that jealousy was, in a great measure, if not entirely, innocent
on the part of both the offenders, as the reader will also, no doubt, remember. The similarity
of the costume adopted by the Marchesino and Bianca was entirely accidental. And this, trifling
as the circumstance may seem, had contributed very materially to arouse the Marchese's wrath
and jealous agony. Bianca, perhaps, under the circumstances, ought not to have danced as frequently
as she did with the Marchesino. She at least knew that the Marchese Lamberto had already conceived
the most torturing jealousy of his nephew. Ludovico, on his part, was of course utterly unconscious
that he was giving his uncle the remotest cause for umbrage by his attentions to the successful
Diva.

Then came the little tete-a-tete supper--tete-a-tete by accident rather than by design, as
the reader may remember; and the officious and spiteful eavesdropping and tell-tale denunciation
by the angry poet.

Nevertheless, and despite of all these circumstances and of the temper of mind in which he
quitted the ball-room that night, it is certain that the Marchese did, on the morning of the
following Ash Wednesday, send for his lawyer and announce to him formally his intention to
make the Signorina Bianca Lalli his wife.

We have seen all the agonies of irresolution and indecision--all the alternating swayings of
his mind, as passion or prudence predominated at the moment. He seemed utterly unable to bring
himself, save fitfully, to the final adoption of either line of conduct. And yet, at the moment
when his jealousy most furiously boiled over, he decided on taking the first overt step towards
the accomplishment of the deed.

Was it possibly that he was urged irresistibly forwards by the fear that if he did not at once
make the prize he so eagerly coveted irrevocably his own, the power to make it so might pass
away from him? that, after all, his nephew might have found the goddess as irresistible as
he had found her himself; and that she might prefer the younger to the older Marchese di Castelmare?

Whatever the reflections might have been that at last drove him to take the definitive step
of applying to his lawyer, we know that they were not of a pleasant kind--that the state of
the Marchese's mind was anything but a happy or peaceful one during the hours that preceded
his sending the message to Signor Fortini.

The manner in which the lawyer received the communication made to him, and his determination,
on further consideration, to make the Marchese Ludovico at once aware of the step contemplated
by his uncle, will not have been forgotten. The reader will, it is hoped, remember also how,
sallying forth after his early dinner for this purpose, Signor Fortini encountered the Marchese
Ludovico in the street; how the latter communicated to the old lawyer the state of anxiety
he was in about the Signorina Bianca Lalli, whom he had lost in the Pineta; and finally how
the lawyer and the Marchese together had gone to the Porta Nuova, by which the road leading
to St. Apollinare and to the Pineta quits the city, in order there to make inquiries,--and
the terrible reply to their inquiries that there met him.

What that reply was had not been immediately clear to the lawyer. For, as far as the circumstances
of the previous events were then known to him, there were two persons, Bianca Lalli, the singer,
and Paolina Foscarelli, the Venetian artist--two young girls missing, who were both known to
have been out of the city in that direction that morning; two young girls of whom he knew little
more than this, that they had apparently reason to feel a deadly jealousy of each other. Which
of these two was the one whose dead body lay there under the city gateway before him, he had
no immediate means of knowing. For Ludovico, who had raised the sheet that covered the features
of the dead, and had, of course, become on the instant aware of the truth, had fallen into
unconsciousness, without uttering a word beyond the one agonized outcry that, for the moment,
had left little doubt on the mind of the lawyer that the victim at their feet was the girl Paolina.

But, of course, the means of setting at rest the doubt on the lawyer's mind were very soon
at hand; at hand even before Ludovico recovered from his short fainting fit. For the same man
among the Octroi officers, who had recognized La Lalli when she had passed with Ludovico in
the morning, was now able to say that the woman who now lay dead in the gateway was in truth
no other than the poor Diva.

Paolina, in fact, was by that time safe at home, and had been well scolded by Signora Orsola
for having given her such a fright by playing the truant for so long.

Of course her old friend called upon her for an account of the hours which had elapsed during
her prolonged absence. And Paolina, in reply to this demand, gave a very intelligible account
of the time. But unfortunately, most unfortunately, as the sequel showed it to be, this account
rested solely on her own statement. Of course old Orsola saw not the smallest reason for doubting
any part of it. And the explanations which she gave of her movements, and of the motives which
led to them, embodied in the following statement of what happened from the time when she left
the church to the time when she re-entered the city, are the result of her subsequent declarations,
when called upon to account for her occupation of those hours.

The aged Capucine friar had, as we know, watched her take the path that led to the farmhouse
on the border of the wood. And having looked after her as long as she was in his sight, he
sighed heavily, and, turning away, went back to his prayers in the church. But had he been
able to watch her on her way a few minutes longer, he would, if the girl's own account of her
movements were correct, have seen her change the direction of her walk.

About half-way between the eastern end of the church, by which the path the friar had indicated
to Paolina passed, and the farmhouse on the border of the forest, another path, skirting what
had once apparently been the cemetery attached to the church, turned off at right angles to
the left, so as, after some distance, to rejoin the road on its way towards the city. And this
path, according to her own account, Paolina took; thus abandoning her intention of reaching
the forest at the spot where the farmhouse stood. Why had she thus changed her purpose?

Various thoughts and feelings, which had presented themselves to her in the space of the minute
or two she had occupied in walking round to the eastern end of the church, had contributed
to produce this change in her purpose.

Unquestionably the first feeling which arose in her mind, on seeing what she had seen from
the window of the church, was one of jealousy. But she combated it vigorously; and if she did
not succeed in altogether conquering it,--that fiend being, by the nature of not to be vanquished
so by one single effort, however valorous--at least put it to the rout for the present. She
had known all along that Ludovico frequently saw La Bianca. She knew that he would meet her
at the ball; and, doubtless, the object of their expedition this morning was, as the friar
had suggested, to show the stranger the celebrated Pineta. Having thus, in some measure, tranquillized
her heart, she began to think how lovely the forest must be on that fine spring morning; how
much she, too, should like to see it; how good an opportunity the present was of doing so.
Perhaps, too, there was some little anticipation of the slight punishment to be inflicted on
her lover, when he should be told that she had visited the Pineta alone at the very time when
he had been in her immediate vicinity engaged in showing it to another.

And with these thoughts in her head, she made her inquiries, and started on her way. But before
she had walked many steps, other thoughts began to present themselves to her mind. How did
she know how far they had gone from the farmhouse? Might they not still be in the immediate
neighbourhood of it? Might she not, very probably, fall in with them? And would not that be
exceedingly disagreeable? Would she not have all the appearance of having followed them purposely
from motives of jealousy? Would not her presence be unwelcome? Would there not be something
of indelicacy even in thus following one who evidently preferred being with another?

These considerations sufficed to produce the change in her purpose, and in the  direction towards
which she turned her steps, that has been mentioned. So she returned by the path, which has
been described, into the road, and proceeded along it on her return to the city. She did not
trip along as briskly and alertly as she had done in coming thither; but walked slowly and
pensively with her eyes on the ground. She was thus a good deal longer in returning than in
going. And when she had reached the immediate neighbourhood of the city, she turned aside before
entering the gate, into a sort of promenade under some trees near the city wall, and sat down
on one of the stone benches there to think a little.

And presently; as she was busy thinking, she was startled into much displeasure against herself
by discovering that two large utterly unauthorised tears were running down her cheeks.

What was the meaning of that? Surely she was not jealous still, after all the good reasons
for not being so, that she had so conclusively pointed out to herself?

No, she was not jealous. She would not be jealous. But it would have been so nice in the Pineta.
The sun was now high in the heavens. The birds were singing on every tree; and Ludovico was
enjoying it with that woman, whom, when she had seen her at the theatre, she had found it so
impossible to like or to tolerate. Yet she would not, could not, doubt that Ludovico loved
herself, and her only.

She dried her tears, and determined that she would not let doubts of what she really did not
doubt torment her. But still she sat on and on upon the bench in the shade musing on many things--on
the Contessa Violante, on the steps Ludovico had said that he would take this very first day
of Lent towards the open breaking off of all engagement with that lady, and on the amount of
scandal and difficulty that would thence arise.

Then her fancy, despite all her endeavours and determinations to the contrary, would go back
to paint pictures of the beauty of La Bianca, as she sat by the side of Ludovico in the little
carriage. How lovely she had looked, and how happy,--so evidently pleased with herself, with
her companion, and with all about her. And Ludovico had seemed in such good spirits--so happy,
so thoroughly contented. He did not want any one else to be with him. He was far enough from
thinking of the fond and faithful heart that would have been made so happy--oh, so happy--if
it had been given to her to sit there by his side.

She sat thinking of all these things till she was roused from her reverie by the city clocks
striking noon. It was three good hours later than she had supposed it to be; and she jumped
up from her seat, intending to hasten home to Signora Orsola Steno.

All this Paolina stated partly to Signora Orsola on her return home, and partly in reply to
inquiries subsequently made of her by inquirers far less easily satisfied.

But chance--or, what for want of a better designation, we are in the habit of so calling--had
decreed that Signora Orsola should not be delivered from her suspense so quickly.

On turning into the shady promenade under the city walls, a little before reaching the Porta
Nuova, Paolina had strolled onwards, before sitting down on one of the benches that tempted
her after her walk, till she fancied that it would be shorter for her to reach the Via di Santa
Eufemia by another gate, which gave admission to the city at the other end of the promenade,
instead of by turning back to the Porta Nuova. And thus, though she had in truth returned to
the city, the men at that gate were quite right in their statement that she had not returned
by the way they guarded.

The road, however, by which Paolina proposed to return to her home led her past the residence
of the Cardinal, and, as she passed, it occurred to her that it would be well, and save another
walk, to look in at the chapel and put together the things she had left in it on finishing
her task there, so that they might be ready for a porter to bring away when she should send
for them.

For this purpose she ascended the great staircase of the Cardinal's palace, and was at once
admitted to pass on into the chapel, as a matter of course, by the servants, who had become
quite used to her visits there; and, from this point forwards, the accuracy of her statements
was easily proved by other testimony besides her own.

It would not have taken her long, as she had said to herself, to get her things together and
make them ready for being fetched away. But in the chapel she found the Lady Violante on her
knees on the fald- stool before the altar. It was the first day in Lent, and, accordingly,
a period of extra devotion. The sins, the excesses, the frivolities, of the Carnival had to
be atoned for by extra prayers and religious exercises; and if Violante had herself been guilty
of no sins, excesses, or frivolities, during the festive season, yet there was abundant need
of her prayers for those who had.

On hearing a light footfall behind her she looked round; and, on seeing Paolina, rose from
her knees, and advanced a step to meet her.

"You are come to take away your things, cara mia. The scaffolding has already been removed.
I suppose you are very glad that your task here is done; and it would be selfish, therefore,
to say that I am sorry. How often it happens, Paolina, that we are tempted to wish what we
ought not to wish."

"I don't think, Signorina, that I often wish what my conscience tells me I ought not to desire;
and I should have thought that such a thing had never occurred to you. I wished very much to
do something this morning, and I began to do it; but then I thought that I ought not to do
it, and I did not."

"Then, my child, you are all the happier. It is a happy day for you."

Paolina sighed a great sigh, and dropped her eyes to the ground.

"Then I suppose the evil wish was not wholly conquered," said Violante, looking into her companion's
eyes with a grave smile.

"It was this, Signora: I walked out very early this morning to St. Apollinare in Classe, where
I am to make some copies of the Mosaics, which I hope to begin to-morrow. A scaffolding has
been prepared for me; and I went to see that all was ready."

And then poor little Paolina was tempted to pour out all her heart and its troubles to her
gravely kind and gentle friend. And Violante spoke such words of comfort as her conscience
would allow her to speak in the matter. And the talk between the two girls ran on; and the
minutes ran on, too. And poor old Orsola Steno, at the end of her stock of patience at last,
had taken the step that has been narrated.

And thus it had come to pass that Paolina had played the truant, and that her protracted absence
had led to Signor Fortini's momentary doubt as to the identity of the corpse he had seen brought
into the city.

BOOK V

Who Did the Deed?

CHAPTER I

At the City Gate

Bianca Lalli lay dead at the city gate. Fresh from her triumphs, her successes, her schemes,
her hopes, her frolic, at the full tide of her fame, and her matchless beauty, the poor Diva
was--dead!

How she came by such sudden death there was nothing whatever in her appearance to tell--scarcely
anything to tell that she was dead. In a quiet composed attitude stretched on her back, she
lay in the light white dress she had put on for her excursion with Ludovico. With the exception
of a broad blue ribbon round the waist, and another which bound her wealth of auburn hair,
her entire dress was white. It was now scarcely whiter than her face. But there was on the
features neither disorder nor sign of pain.

From a feeling of natural respect for death, and perhaps, also, for the extreme beauty of the
young face in death, the bearers of the body had covered it with a coarse linen sheet, such
as they had chanced to find to hand. But the duty of the officers of the gate would have required
them to uncover the face, even if Ludovico in the first agony of his doubt had not already
done so. There, amid the pitying throng of rough men, she lay beneath the sombre old gateway
vault. The extraordinary abundance of her hair fell in great loose tresses, some making rich
contrast with the white dress that covered her shoulders, and some of it thrown back behind
over the door on which the body lay.

A terrible and deadly sickness came over Ludovico, and his face became almost as white as that
of the corpse. His head swam round; and, reeling back from the sight that met his eyes, he
swooned, and would have fallen to the ground had the lawyer not caught him.

"I suppose," said Fortini, to the men who crowded round the body, while he paid attention to
the Marchesino,--"I suppose that there can be no doubt that she is dead?"

"She's as dead as the door she lies on," said one of the men who had helped to carry the body,
shaking his head gravely, as he looked pitifully down on her; "as dead as the door she lies
on, more's the pity, for she looks like one of them that find it good to live,-- more's the
pity,--more's the pity."

"Che bella donna! E proprio un viso d'angiolo," said another; "and so young too. There's some
heart somewhere that'll be sore for this."

"Pretty creature; it is enough to break one's own heart to look at her as she lies there,"
said a third. While a fourth of the rough fellows stood and sobbed aloud, and let the tears
run down his furrowed cheeks, without the smallest effort to control or hide his emotion. For
an Italian, especially an Italian man of the people, unlike the men of the Teuton races, is
never ashamed of emotion. He very often manifests a great deal which he does not genuinely
feel; but he never seeks to hide any that he does feel.

All this while the officials at the gate, some six or eight of them, standing thus round the
extemporized bier, were closely questioning the men, who had been the bearers; Ludovico and
the old lawyer were thus shut out from the circle which had formed itself around the body,
and were on the outside of it. A boy, belonging to one of the gate officials, brought, at the
lawyer's bidding, a glass of cold water, by the help of which the young Marchese was quickly
restored to consciousness. He was able to rise to his feet again before the officers had concluded
their official questioning of those who had brought in the body. And the lawyer looked anxiously
into his face to ascertain that he was capable of understanding what was said to him, as he
stood, still apparently half-stunned by the shock of the event, against the doorway of the
little dwelling of the gatekeepers.

"Stand where you are and say nothing; we will go away together presently," whispered the lawyer
in his ear, griping him hard at the same time by the arm, and giving him a little shake, as
if to rouse him to comprehension; a mode of speaking and acting on the part of Signor Fortini,
which would have seemed very extraordinary to the young Marchese at any other time, but which
he was now too much overpowered by what had happened to notice.

Signor Fortini had no official character or function, which in any way gave him the right,
or made it his duty to meddle with the circumstances, that had occurred by chance in his presence.
But he was so well known to all the city, was mixed in one way or another with so many matters
of business, and was so much and so generally looked up to, that the people at the gate, hardly
knowing what their own duty required of them under circumstances so unusual, turned to him
for directions as to what they ought to do.

"What you have to do, my good friend, is simple enough," said the lawyer, addressing the superior
official at the gate; "you must, in the first place, receive and take charge of the body. You
must inquire of these good folks all they have to tell you, together with their names and addresses.
You must draw up a processo verbale, embodying all such information; and then you must have
the body conveyed to the mortuary at the hospital, at the same time making your report to the
police, and delivering up the body into their custody. In such a case as this, it will be well,
too, that these worthy men, who have brought the body here, should go with you to the police,
the more so," he added, as his quick eye marked a certain blank look in the faces of the men,--"the
more so, as they must be recompensed for their trouble and labour, and it is by the police
that the payment for it must be made."

"Un processo verbale! Yes, one knows that; but under circumstances so strange--grazie a Dio
so unheard of--if your worship would have the kindness to put one in the way of it. Your worship
is familiar with affairs of all sorts. Just an instant."

"We must hear first what these men have to say. First take down their names and addresses."

The men gave them, as the lawyer remarked to himself, with perfect willingness and alacrity.

They then related that having been at work in the forest, cutting up the branches and trunk
of a tree, which had fallen from old age and natural decay, they were going to another part
of the Pineta, a short distance off, where another fallen tree awaited their axes and saws,
when they saw a lady asleep as they thought on a bank. They were about to pass on without interfering
with her in any way, when one of their party remarked that it was odd that all the noise they
had made had not wakened her, for they had come along laughing, singing, and talking loudly.
This had led them to approach closely to her; and then,--as they looked at her, a suspicion
of the truth began to come to their minds. They touched her, and found that she was dead. She
was not quite cold, they said, and were quite sure of that fact. They looked at her, and looked
all around to see if they could perceive any sign of the cause of her death. But they could
see nothing. There was, as far as they could see, no trace of blood, either on her dress or
anywhere around the spot where she lay. And then they had borrowed a door from the farm near
St. Apollinare, and had brought the body here, and that was all they knew about it.

"Had they seen any other person in the forest that morning?"

"Not a soul; and they had been in that part of the Pineta, or at least at no great distance,
all the morning from sunrise."

"Would they be able to find again and to know the spot on which they had found the body?" the
lawyer asked.

"Oh, yes," they said, "easily. It was not by the side of any of the ordinary tracks through
the forest--but not very far from one of them; as if the lady had turned aside from the path,
and sought out a quiet spot to enjoy a siesta without being disturbed."

"It is pretty clear," said the lawyer, "that it has been a case of sudden death during sleep--probably
from disease of the heart. Now, my friend," he said, turning to the senior of the officials,
"you have only simply to state what we have heard in writing and carry it to the police. Meantime,
it will be as well to remove the body at once. Let a couple of your people accompany the men
who brought it here--they may as well carry it to the mortuary."

So a sheet was obtained from a neighbouring house, the more perfectly and decently to cover
the body, preparatory to its being carried through the streets. Ludovico stepped hurriedly
forward from the doorpost, against which he had been leaning, and looked eagerly once again
at the calmly-tranquil and still beautiful face before they covered it with the sheet. And
then the six men took up their burden, and, with two of the gate-officers marching at their
head, moved off towards the hospital.

Then the lawyer put his hand on Ludovico's shoulder in a manner that was strange, and that
would at once have seemed so to the Marchese had he at the time had any attention to give to
such a circumstance, and said in a peremptory and authoritative sort of voice, very unlike
his usual manner when speaking to a person in the social position of the Marchese,

"Now, come with me, Signor Marchese. Let us go. We can do no more good here." And he put his
arm within that of Ludovico, as if to lead him away, as he spoke.

The Marchese suffered the old man thus to lead him from the gate without speaking a word.

"Now, Signor Marchese," said the lawyer, as soon as they had turned the corner of a street,
which took them out of sight of the city gate, "now, lose no time. Make for the Porta Adriana,
and quit the city by that. There is an osteria in the borgo outside the gate, where you can
get a bagarino with a quick horse for Faenza; thence cross the mountains into Tuscany. You
may easily be over the frontier this night; you have plenty of time, only none to lose. It
will be at least two hours before any steps can be taken; you may be beyond Faenza by that
time. Have you money about you? If not I can supply you. I have a considerable sum about me--One
word more: Do not venture to remain in Florence. The grand Ducal Government would not refuse
the demand of the Nuncio in such a case; and the demand would surely be made. Better get on
to Leghorn; and make for Marseilles."

"Good God, Signor Fortini! What are you talking of; and what are you dreaming of? What is it
that you have got into your head?" said Ludovico, rousing himself, and stopping short in his
walk to turn round and face the lawyer.

"Look here, Signor Marchese, your father was my friend and patron; your grandfather was my
father's friend and patron; and, therefore, bad as this business is, I think, and will think,
more of old times and old kindnesses than of what I suppose is my duty now. But don't lose
time by trying to throw dust in my eyes. What is the use of it? What I have got in my head
is what every man, woman and child in Ravenna will have in their head before this day is over.
Have you sufficient money about you?"

"Signor Fortini, once again I don't know what you are driving at. I insist upon your speaking
out your entire meaning. What is it you imagine?" said Ludovico, speaking angrily, but now
very pale.

"Imagine! What can I imagine? The matter is, unhappily, but too clear. Why of course I imagine
that you have by some means,--which the medical people will find out fast enough, doubt it
not,--killed that unfortunate woman in the Pineta."

"Signor Fortini!" exclaimed Ludovico, in a voice in which horror, indignation and dismay had
equal shares.

"Marchese, how can anybody have any doubt on the matter. Alas, that I should have to say so,
it is too self-evident. You persuade this poor creature to go out alone with you into the Pineta
at an extraordinary hour of the morning, knowing then,--or according to your own showing, becoming
aware soon after you started--that it was your uncle's intention by a marriage with this woman
to destroy utterly every prospect you have in the world. What other human being can have had
any ill-will against this woman, or any interest in destroying her? Your interest in doing
so is of the very strongest possible kind. It was no case of robbery. The girl was put to death
by some one, who had an interest in doing so. She is last seen alive with you; I find you with
a singularly scared and troubled manner pretending to make inquiry respecting her, your real
object evidently being to ascertain whether the fact of the murder were yet known, and to give
rise to the impression that you knew nothing of the poor woman's fate. Then, when confronted
with the corpse you are seen to be absolutely overcome by your emotion. Now, as I have simply
stated the facts, do you imagine that a moment's doubt will be felt as to who has done this deed?"

Ludovico felt the cold sweat break out on his forehead, as he listened to the lawyer's words.
The logic of the facts did most unquestionably seem to make out a fatally strong case against
him. And it was difficult to judge--very difficult even for the shrewd and practised lawyer
to judge--whether the consciousness of crime, or the horror of seeing by how terribly strong
evidence the suspicion of crime was brought home to him, were the cause of the emotion he manifested.

Signor Fortini, again, with rapid and practised acuteness, ran over all the circumstances in
his mind; and his conclusion, unavoidable, as he felt it, was that the Marchese must have done
the deed. That the criminal authorities would come to the same conclusion he could not feel
the smallest doubt.

"Good God! Signor Fortini, this is very dreadful! it is as new to my mind--it comes upon me
now for the first time, as much as if I had not known the fact of her death. But I see it--I
see it all; as you put the matter now before me. What am I to do?--gracious heaven, what am
I to do?"

"I have already told you, what you have to do; the only thing that you can do. You have time
enough to make it quite safe, that you may be across the frontier before any pursuit can overtake
you. As for pursuing you across the frontier, that can only be done diplomatically, and of
course by means which would leave you ample time to quit Tuscany."

"Signor Fortini, I am innocent of this crime. It is a crime which sickens me with horror to
think of. What passed in the Pineta passed exactly as I told you. I left that unhappy girl
sleeping, intending to be absent from her but a few minutes. And as there is a God in heaven
I never again saw her till I saw her dead at the gate," said Ludovico, speaking with intense
earnestness.

"But even if you should convince me, Signor Marchese, that such were in truth the case, whom
else do you think you would be able to convince? Not one, not a single soul; above all, certainly
not one of those who are used to the investigation of crime, or of those who would have to
pronounce judgment on it. If I were perfectly and entirely persuaded of your innocence I should
still urge you to fly. The facts of the case are too strong against you."

"But is that the advice you would give to an innocent man, Signor Fortini? Is that the course
which an innocent man would take? Should I not by flying add such an additional damning circumstance
to the other grounds of suspicion, as to render all possible hope of clearing myself vain?"
remonstrated Ludovico.

"It is true, it would do so; and the argument is, I am bound to say, the argument of an innocent
man. In any other case, in any other case, I should say face inquiry and prove your innocence.
But, Signor Marchese, I dare not recommend you to do so. The facts, as I said, are too strong
for you. Remember, too, that you do not throw away any chance by flight. For the only possible
circumstance that could exonerate you would be the discovery that the deed was done by some
other; and should that ever be proved or provable, you would at once return, plainly stating
that you fled, not from guilt, but from a due appreciation of the fatal weight of suspicion
that the circumstances and the facts cast on you. In such a case, in such a very improbable
case, I should not hesitate to testify that, being by accident made aware of the circumstances,
I had recommended and urged you to fly. No innocent man is bound to suffer for the misfortune
of lying under a false suspicion if he can help it. You cannot face the suspicion that will
rest upon you; instant flight is the only course open to you."

"Did you not say yourself at the gate just now, Signor Fortini," said Ludovico, making a strong
effort to recover the use of his almost stunned faculties"--did you not yourself say that it
was evidently a case of sudden death, probably from heart disease?"

"Pshaw! to the people there; to those blockheads at the gate, I said so, of course I did; but
the medical folks will soon find out all about that."

"But again, as you remarked very truly, the only possible motive that I could be suspected
of having for wishing the death of this unfortunate woman must be supposed to arise from my
knowledge of the fact that my uncle had proposed marriage to her."

"And is not that motive enough, per Dio?" interrupted the lawyer.

"Doubtless it might, at all events, seem so to some people. But you spoke of my persuading
her to go on this unhappy excursion with a view, as your words imply, of committing the crime
you suspect me of. Now I knew nothing of any such intention on the part of my uncle till she
communicated it to me when we were in the forest."

"That is your statement--"

"And you must remember, Signor Fortini, that I made that statement to you before I knew anything
of her death."

"Before you knew anything of her death. Pshaw! You are assuming your innocence of the deed.
Yes, I remember what you said. I remember only too well. Had you not spoken to me, there might
have been no proof that you knew anything at all of your uncle's purpose. I wish to heaven
you had not said a word to me on the subject. I shall have to testify that you declared to
me, that your uncle's offer to her had been communicated to you by her. It will be impossible
to avoid that. And it will be impossible to persuade the magistrate that you had not previous
knowledge of such a purpose from other sources."

"But why should any such intended offer on the part of my uncle be ever heard of at all?" urged
Ludovico. "He will most assuredly never be willing to speak of it, and--"

"Che! As if that old man, her so-called father, will not be open- mouthed as to that--as if
he would not proclaim it to the whole city. Ah--h--h! it is a bad business, Signor Marchese,
a bad business.

"And is it possible, Signor Fortini, that you do really in your own heart believe me to be
guilty of this deed?" said Ludovico, with a sigh that was almost a groan, and looking steadily
and wistfully into the eyes of his companion.

"What is more to the purpose, unfortunately, is that it does not signify a straw whether I
believe it or not. You will not be judged, Signor Marchese, by my belief; and I am very sure
what those who have to judge you will believe. I have some experience of these matters. I know
the courts. I see the exceeding difficulty of believing anything else as to this death than
that it was done by your hands; by you, who had the opportunity and the motive, whereas, it
is impossible to suggest any semblance of such motive on the part of any other human being;
by you, in whose company she was last seen alive. She had valuable ornaments about her person.
If you had removed them it would, at least, have left it open to the magistrates to attribute
the deed to another motive, and to other hands. I see all this. I see the whole case before
me; and, I tell you, that your only chance is to escape while it is yet time."

"My solemn assertion, then, produces no effect on your mind, Signor Fortini?" said Ludovico,
looking at him steadily.

"Signor Marchese," said the lawyer, with an impatient shake of the head, "let us look at the
matter from the opposite point of view. If you had killed this woman, let us say, what would
your conduct be? Would you not, in that case, make exactly the assertions that you now make?
That is the terrible consideration that makes all assertion valueless in the case of such suspicion.
But, once again, why dwell on my belief in the matter, which is nothing to the purpose? I have
put your position, whether you are guilty or not guilty, clearly before your eyes. I counsel
you, and strongly urge you, while yet unaccused, to escape from the accusation, which will
be made against you within an hour. I am ready to assist you with the means of escaping--"

"Signor Fortini, I cannot avail myself of them. I have made up my mind I will not add another
such damning ground of suspicion against me. Here I will remain to answer, as best I can, all
the accusations that may be brought against me. I will not fly."

The old lawyer shook his head and sighed deeply.

"A bad business," he said, "a very bad business. It will kill the Marchese Lamberto; and I
won't say what I would not have given to have escaped seeing your father's son, Signor Marchese,
in the position in which you stand."

"Will you carry your kindness yet one step further, Signor Fortini, and, despite my rejection
of your first advice, tell me what you think I had better first do now immediately, I mean--on
the supposition that I am determined to remain in the city?"

"I think," said the lawyer, after a pause for consideration, "that the best course for you
to take in the case would be to go at once to the magistrates and make your statement to them
of the circumstances according to your own version of the story,--stating that you hastened
to do so on seeing the dead body at the city gate; I think that is the best thing you can do.
Observe, I cannot say that I think it likely that, if you do so, you will pass this night under
the roof of the Palazzo Castelmare; but, if you are determined to remain in the city, I think
that is the best thing you can do."

"That, then, I will do," returned the Marchese. "I thank you, Signor Fortini, for the advice
which I can follow, and not less for that which I cannot follow. Good-evening."

"Good-evening, Signor Marchese. I hope it may be better with you than I fear. And, of course,
if you need me, as you will, you will summon me, and I will not fail to be with you within
a few minutes of your call."

"Thanks, Signor Fortini. Addio."

"One word more, Signor Marchese, before you go. When you uncovered the face of the woman lying
dead yonder you exclaimed, `Paolina!' What was the thought that led you to do so? You could
not have mistaken the identity? Of course, you know that I question you only in your own interest?"

"Did I say `Paolina?' replied the Marchese, with an apparent effort at recollecting himself.

"You did. On seeing the face you exclaimed, `Paolina mia!'--so much so, that I felt no doubt
that it was this Paolina who lay dead there. What was it moved you to that exclamation?"

"I don't know. I can't tell. I was very anxious about Paolina. The thought of her was uppermost
in my mind, I suppose."

"Humph!" said the lawyer, thoughtfully and doubtingly.

All this conversation had passed hurriedly in the small deserted street into which Ludovico
and the lawyer had turned on leaving the city gate; and, when they parted, the two men took
different directions,--the lawyer returning to the gate with the germ of an idea in his mind,
which the last portion of his conversation with the Marchese had generated there, and which
subsequent circumstances tended to develop, and the Marchese Ludovico going in the direction
of the Palazzo del Governo.

CHAPTER II

Suspicion

The Marchese Ludovico told the lawyer that he would go immediately to the magistrates and make
a voluntary statement of all that he knew of the circumstances connected with Bianca's death;
and he fully purposed doing so. But he did not do it immediately. There was another visit which
he was more anxious to pay; and which the hint that had dropped from the old lawyer to the
effect that it was very probable he might not pass that night in his own home, determined him
to pay first at all hazards.

This visit, as may readily be imagined, was to Paolina. And to the modest little home in the
Strada di Santa Eufemia he hurried as fast as his legs would carry him, as soon as he quitted
Signor Fortini. Paolina, on returning home after her conversation with the Contessa Violante
in the Cardinal's chapel, had remained there busy with the preparation of her materials for
beginning her work at Saint Apollinare on the following day.

She looked up as he entered the room with an arch smile on her lips and in her eyes which,
perhaps, did not reflect altogether faithfully the feeling in her heart.

"Yes, I saw you, you naughty, inconstant boy, when you little thought my eye was upon you.
I saw you with--Ludovico, there is something wrong," she said, suddenly changing her laughing
tone for one of alarm as her eye marked the expression of his face. "I am sure from the way
you look at me there is something amiss. What is it, Ludovico mio? What has happened to vex you?"

"A great and terrible misfortune has happened, my Paolina; and I have run to you in all haste
that you might not hear it from any lips but my own. You were going to say just now that you
saw me with Bianca Lalli, were you not? Where and when did you see us?"

"In a bagarino, driving towards the Pineta. I was up at a high window in the church on the
scaffolding prepared for my work," said Paolina, deadly pale, and breathless with apprehension.

"Ah! you saw us from the window. I took her there at her request to see the Pineta. We started
on leaving the ball-room. In the forest she became sleepy: I left her sleeping on a bank, and
meaning to return to her in a few minutes. I could not find the spot again for some time; and
when I did find it she was gone. After searching the wood in vain for hours I returned to the
city, and--at the gate--not an hour ago--I saw her brought in--dead!"

"Dead! La Bianca dead!" cried Paolina, much shocked; and with every vestige of the half-formed
suspicions which had been tormenting her suddenly erased from her mind by the terrible tidings
and the sadness of the end of the unfortunate Diva.

"Dead, my Paolina; and I am suspected of having murdered her," he said slowly, and with an
accent of profound despair.

"What--what! You suspected! By whom? What does it mean? La Bianca murdered--and by you. What
does it mean, Ludovico mio? For pity's sake, tell me, what does it mean?"

And the pale features began to work, awl the large deep eyes filled with tears, and the neat
moment she fell back into a chair sobbing hysterically.

"I was the last person with whom she was seen alive; and--there was, it seems, strong reason
why it may be supposed that I should wish her dead--God help me! I learned this morning--the
poor girl told me herself, to my extreme surprise--that my uncle, the Marchese Lamberto, had
proposed marriage to her. You can understand, my darling, that such a marriage would be a very
dreadful misfortune to me: therefore, people think that I put the unhappy girl to death."

"Oh, my love, my love; come to me, come to me, and let me hold you!" said the poor girl, struggling
to speak amid her convulsive sobbing, and holding out her hands towards him. "Oh, my Ludovico,
this is very dreadful. But it is impossible--impossible! They will know that it is impossible
that you could have done such a thing. Murder! You- -murder a defenceless girl! Oh, it is nonsense.
Nobody will believe anything so monstrous."

"Thanks, my Paolina--thanks, my own darling. At least there is one heart that knows me. And,
my Paolina, it is an immense comfort to me--not that I doubted it for an instant--but it is
an infinite comfort to me to know that you, at least in your heart of hearts, are certain that
I did not--that it never could have entered into my mind to do this thing."

"I believe it! I could just as soon imagine that I myself had done it. But, Ludovico, my beloved,
it will not be believed; it is too monstrous. You are known here; it cannot be believed."

"And yet, my Paolina, one who has known me all my life, who was my father's friend--one who
knows me well, and who looks at things as the magistrates will look at them--he believes it;
believes it so much, and is so certain that others will believe it, that he strongly urged
me to escape from the city, and from the country. That, Paolina, knowing my innocence, I would
not do. To save myself from the stake I would not have gone away without telling you, my own
one, that I had not done this deed. I could not go, and so leave you--"

"My own--my own! How I love you, my Ludovico, now in the time of this great trouble better
than ever I did before. There was no need to tell me, my love, that your hands are innocent
of murder. But surely--surely you did well not to fly, leaving the hideous accusation behind you."

"So I thought, my own love--my own high-minded right-thinking darling--so I thought; and here
I stay to answer my accusers. But the fatality of the circumstances is such that--in truth,
I see little hope of clearing myself, save by the possible discovery of the causes that led
to this terrible death."

"Was there anything to show how she--that is, I mean, whether she-- died by violence?" asked
Paolina.

"Nothing--nothing whatever. As we saw the body under the city gateway, when the men who found
it brought it in, there was not the smallest trace of violence visible. She lay as if, save
for the deadly pallor of her face, she might have been still sleeping. And I am most anxious
for the medical examination of the body. It may be that they will be able to discover that
death was produced by some natural cause."

"Surely that is the most likely. Had any robbery been committed?" asked Paolina thoughtfully.

"None--none whatever; and she had valuables exposed on her person which were untouched. This
is one of the worst circumstances against me; as it excludes the idea of the dead having been
done by common malefactors for the sake of plunder."

"And no marks of violence? It must have been a natural death; such things do happen. I remember
hearing of a case-"

"I must go, darling; I must leave you. I must hasten to the Palazzo del Governo to make my
statement of what has occurred. It is hard to leave you, my Paolina--very hard to leave you,
not knowing when or under what circumstances I am likely to see you again."

"Ludovico, see me again!" shrieked the girl, as a new and dreadful idea presented itself for
the first time to her mind; "why--you will come to me when you have spoken to the magistrates;
you will tell me what they say."

"I fear me, Paolina, that it will not be in my power to do that," returned Ludovico, with a
melancholy smile. "Should they leave me at liberty, of course I shall fly to you on the instant
they dismiss me. But, you must not expect that, my love. I shall be detained doubtless, until--until
the truth has been discovered respecting this horrible tragedy. One kiss my own, own darling
before we part."

She sprang into his opened arms with a bound; almost before the words had quitted his lips,
and clasped him to her heart with all the strength she could exert. Then drawing herself a
little back, and placing her two little hands on the front of his shoulders; she said, speaking
with breathless hurry,--

"See now, my love, my only love. You must remember all the time, that there is no hour of the
day or night that I shall not be thinking of you, and loving you all the time, always, always.
And remember, that if all the whole world says that you did this thing, I shall still know
that it was as impossible as that I did it myself. Remember that always, my best beloved."

"Thanks, my Paolina; it will be very sweet to me to remember it. And dearest, one thing more.
It will hardly be likely that in the present circumstances, under all this weight of misfortune,
my poor uncle will be likely to have time or attention to give to you, But if you have need
of anything--of advice, of assistance, of protection--speak to the Contessa Violante, and--stay,
you shall take a message to her from me. Tell her that I begged you to say, as from me to her,
that in the teeth of all appearances I am innocent in thought, word, and deed in this matter.
I think she will believe it; I must go, my love, my own!"

"Pray God, it be not for long, tesoro mio. I shall pray to the Holy Virgin for you morning
and night."

"Addio, Paolina mia. Yet one kiss, anima mia, addio,"

From the Strada di Santa Eufemia Ludovico hurried as quickly as he could to the Palazzo del
Governo; but found that he was not in time to be the first bearer to the police magistrate
of the tidings of what had happened. The report of the officials at the gate had already been
given in, and the police had already taken possession of the body.

The magistrate received him with grave courtesy, saying that he was glad the Signor Marchese
had presented himself in order to throw what light he could on this sad affair, as rumour had
already reached his (the magistrate's) ears mixing the name of the Marchese Ludovico with the
subject in a manner that would have made it his duty to call the Marchese, had he not of himself
judged it right to anticipate the action of justice in the matter.

Then Ludovico related clearly and shortly how the excursion to the Pineta had been imagined
and planned between him and Bianca at the ball; how they had put their plan into execution;
how he had left her sleeping in the forest; and had been unable to find her again; how he had
returned, after spending much time in fruitless seeking, and had shortly afterwards, being
then in the company of Signor Giovacchino Fortini, seen the dead body of the unfortunate lady
brought into the city by men who had discovered it in the forest.

The magistrate listened attentively to this history in silence, save that he once or twice
interrupted Ludovico to ask at what o'clock it had been that the different incidents happened.
Then he reduced the whole statement to writing, and read it over to the Marchesino.

"Your lordship parted then from Signor Fortini, after witnessing in his company the arrival
of the corpse at the gate, nearly an hour ago. You did not come to make your report to us here
at once? I must ask you how you have employed the interval?" said the magistrate shooting a
sharp glance from under his black eyebrows at Ludovico, who was sitting opposite to him, with
a little table between them, on which there were writing-materials.

"In visiting a lady, to whom I was very anxious to tell these unfortunate circumstances myself,
instead of allowing them to come to her ears in any other manner," answered Ludovico simply.

"The lady's name? I ask in confidence, you know; unless of course the fact should turn out
to have any bearing on the discovery of the truth as to this most unhappy business."

"The lady is the Signorina Paolina Foscarelli, a Venetian artist sent here to make copies of
some of our mosaics, and recommended to my uncle the Marchese Lamberto."

"With whom you had no acquaintance previous to her bringing that recommendation?"

"None whatever."

"But since that time you have become intimate with her?"

"It is true."

"Signor Marchese, this is a most lamentable and unhappy affair. It is my duty to point out
to you, what doubtless your own good sense has already suggested to you--that the mere facts,
as you have related them to me, place you in a very unfortunate position. But most unhappily--it
is exceedingly painful to me to have to say it-- there is, if what has already reached my ears
be true, worse, much worse behind. I am obliged to ask you what conversation, of a special
nature, passed between you and Bianca Lalli during your excursion?"

"I will make no pretence at not understanding your question, Signor, nor any attempt to conceal
the truth. I have already stated the facts; or that, which you have evidently heard, could
not have reached your ears. The Signorina Bianca Lalli confided to me the fact, that my uncle
the Marchese Lamberto had offered marriage to her."

"Most lamentable, and to be regretted in every way," said the magistrate, gravely shaking his
head. "You perceive, Signor Marchese, the terrible, but inevitable suggestion, that arises
from the fact of your having been made aware of a purpose so disastrous to your interests?"

"I call your attention, Signor, again to the fact, that nothing would have been known of any
such communication having been made to me, had I not spontaneously mentioned the circumstance
myself."

"It is true, Signor Marchese, and it will not be forgotten that this circumstance was spontaneously
mentioned by you. But you must observe, that the fact of the proposal made by the Marchese
Lamberto would have become known in more ways than one. And unhappily the fact that such a
proposal had been made, would throw a very disagreeable light on the extraordinary circumstances
of this death. To whom would the death of this unfortunate woman be profitable? That is the
fatal question, Signor Marchese, which it is impossible to avoid asking."

"I am aware of the cruelty of the inference suggested by the circumstance, Signor Commissario,"
said Ludovico sadly.

"Have you any suggestion to offer yourself as to the possible means by which this woman may
have met with her death?" asked the Commissary of Police.

"As far as I could see at the city gate, and according to the statement of the men who found
the body, there was no indication of violence whatever to be found on it. My suggestion therefore,
and my trust is, that the cause of her death was a natural one:"

"That will be a question for the medical authorities to decide," said the Commissary.

"I was about to ask you whether they had proceeded to any examination yet?" said Ludovico.

"Not yet; we shall have the report immediately; and it shall be at once communicated to you."

"At the Palazzo Castelmare?" said Ludovico, though he had but very little hope that he should
be allowed to remain at large.

The Commissary shook his head very gravely.

"I need hardly tell you, Signor Marchese, how painful it is to me to be compelled to announce
to you that we cannot find it consistent with our duty to allow you under the circumstances
to quit this building. The utmost that can be done to make your detention as little uncomfortable
to you as possible, shall be done. And I can only say that I trust it may be but for a short time."

"Permit me to observe, Signor Commissario, that after seeing the dead body at the gate, to
say nothing of all the hours previously, if I had been guilty,--I had abundance of time to
escape, and to place myself beyond the reach of the Papal authorities, before I could have
been overtaken. I might have done so, but did not. Might not that be held to justify you in
allowing me to retain my liberty until the course of your inquiries may again require my presence?"

"I fear not, Signor Marchese, I fear not. The fact that such a crime has been committed throws
a terrible responsibility upon us. As to your not having availed yourself of opportunity to
escape, I may remark that you may have been detained, not so much by your desire of meeting
inquiry, as of having the interview, of which you told me just now. You say that you came directly
from the Signorina Foscarelli's dwelling hither. At that time it was too late for hope of escape.
I fear, Signor Marchese, it will not be consistent with my duty to allow you to depart."

So Ludovico was conducted to a very sufficiently comfortable chamber reserved for similar occasions,
and found himself a prisoner, waiting trial on suspicion of murder.

CHAPTER III

Guilty or not Guilty?

Signor Fortini hurried home, when he quitted the Marchese Ludovico in the little quiet street,
in which they had talked together after the terrible sight they had together witnessed at the
city gate, and shut himself up in his private room to think. He was much moved and distressed,
more moved than the practised calm of the manner natural to him, and the slow movements of
old age, allowed to be visible.

What a dreadful, what a miserable misfortune was this. A tragedy, if ever there was one, which
would for ever strike down from their place an ancient and noble family, whose merit and worth
had from generation to generation been the pride and the admiration of the entire city--a tragedy
which would come home as such to the heart of every human being in Ravenna. Great heaven, what
a fall!

And this was the first outcome of the disastrous purpose of his old friend the Marchese. Truly
he had felt that nought but evil--evils manifold and wide-spreading--could arise from so insane
a line of conduct. But he had been far from anticipating so overwhelming a calamity as the
first result of it.

Then, the deed itself! It would cause an outcry from one end of Italy to the other. It would
be a disgrace, and an opprobrium to the city for many a year. What! Ravenna invites, entices
this hapless girl, who had been the admiration of so many cities, to come within her walls;
and in return for the delight which she had given them-- murders her. Other cities vie with
each other in doing honour to the gifted artist. She ventures to Ravenna, and--is murdered.

There was a bitterness in Signor Fortini's consideration of the matter from this point of view,
which was more poignant than any other man than an Italian would quite understand. For nowhere
else do municipal pride, jealousy, and patriotism run so high.

A foul and cruel murder had been done: so much was certain. Signor Fortini had not the smallest
hope that the death would be found to have resulted from natural causes. And then came the
consideration whether there could be any hope that, after all, the deed had been done by some
other hand than that of the young Marchese di Castelmare.

After thinking deeply for several minutes, the lawyer shook his head. That such a deed might
have been done in the forest on the person of one found sleeping there, whose appearance was
such as to hold out the expectation of booty to a plunderer, was possible--not very likely,
but possible. Possible enough to suppose that lawless and evil-disposed persons might have
been wandering there- depredators on the forest, who exist in great numbers--smugglers making
their way across the country by hidden paths, or what not? Possible enough that such a deed
might have been done, and the perpetrators of it far away before the discovery of the body,
away to the southward, and across the Apennine into Tuscany in the space of a few hours. But
all such possibilities were conclusively negatived by the certain fact that no plunder had
been attempted, that plunder could not have been the object of the murderer.

Alarmed before they could carry their object into execution by the approach of footsteps? Was
this a plausible or a possible theory?

No; for the poor Diva had valuable ornaments visible on her person, an enamelled gold watch
at her girdle, a diamond pin or brooch at the fastening of her dress on her chest, to possess
themselves of which would have needed less time than was required for the perpetration of the
murder. It was wholly impossible to suppose, on any hypothesis, that the murder could have
been committed for the sake of plunder, and that these ornaments could have been left untouched.

It had been observed, and was noted--not in the report drawn up by the officials at the gate,
but in the more exact and detailed report furnished by the police on their taking of the body
into their charge--that the brooch, which has been mentioned, was unfastened, so as to be left
hanging in the dress by its pin. But this circumstance did not seem to be of much moment, as
it might well have been that Bianca herself had unfastened it before falling asleep.

No; it was but too clear, as the lawyer said to himself, that murder and not robbery had been
the object of the perpetrator of the crime.

There was, it was true, nothing improbable in the story told by the Marchese Ludovico. That
the girl should have been overpowered by sleep, after having passed the night at the ball,
and then started on an expedition so foreign to her usual habits, was abundantly likely. That
he might have become tired of sitting still while she slept, and might have strayed away from
her, not intending to quit her for more than a few minutes and a few yards, was also perfectly
probable. That having so strayed he might have been unable to find his way back again to the
spot where he had left her, or to be certain whether he had found the same spot or not, would
not seem at all unlikely to any one acquainted with the Pineta. All this story was likely and
natural enough.

But--the motive--the inevitable inference from that terrible cui bono question. For whom was
it profitable, that this poor girl should be put to death? According to the fatal information,
which, by his own account, he had received but a short time previously from the victim herself,
information, the truth and accuracy of which were well known to the lawyer from the Marchese
Lamberto himself, the whole future prospects in life of the Marchese Ludovico depended on the
life or death of this unhappy woman.

If the Marchese Lamberto carried out his insane intention of marrying La Bianca Lalli his nephew
would become simply destitute. After having been accustomed, from the cradle to the age of
four- and-twenty, to all that riches could procure--after having lived in the sure expectation
of wealth up to an age when it was too late to think of making himself capable of earning a
competence for himself in any conceivable manner, this marriage would take from him suddenly,
and for ever, all such prospect; and the death of the woman who had bewitched his uncle thus
fatally would make all safe, for the Marchese Lamberto was not a marrying man--was, as all
the town knew, the last man in the world to have dreamed of taking a wife now at this time
of his life.

No; it was the fatal fascination, the witchery, the lures of this one woman. Remove her, and
all would be right.

Ah! The mischief, the woe, the scandal, the disgrace, the irretrievable calamity, and the misery,
that this accursed folly of the Marchese Lamberto had caused. Ah! to think of all the sorrow
and trouble this woman brought with her into the city when she was so triumphantly welcomed
within the walls by these two unhappy men--the uncle and the nephew.

It was strongly and curiously characteristic of the Italian mind that Signor Fortini, in coming
to the conclusion that this deed must, beyond the possibility of doubt, have been committed
by the Marchese Ludovico and none other, was mainly and specially moved by compassion for the
perpetrator of the crime. There is something in this Italian mode of viewing human events and
human conduct curiously analogous to that conception of mortal destinies on which the pathos
of the old Greek tragedy mainly rests.

How cruel was the fate which had thus compelled the young man to perceive that the life of
this girl and his own welfare were incompatible!

How dreadful the pitiless working of the great, blind, automatic, destiny-machine!

To raise a murderous hand against the life of a sleeping girl--how dreadful! How great, therefore,
must have been the suffering which impelled a man to do so!

He had evidently been driven to desperation by the prospect of the utter and tremendous ruin
that threatened him; and "desperation;" the absence of all hope, is recognised, both by the
popular mind of Italy and by its theoretic theology, as a sufficient cause for any course of
action. It is especially taught by Roman Catholic theology that it is, above all things, wicked
so to act towards a man as to drive him to desperation; and the popular ethics invariably visit
with deeper reprobation any cause of conduct which had tempted another man to make himself
guilty of a violent crime than it does the criminal himself.

Thus, lawyer and law-abiding man as he was, with all the habits of a long life between him
and the possibility of his raising his own band against the life of any man, Signor Fortini,
as he mused on the tragedy which had fallen out, felt more of compassion for the Marchese Ludovico,
and more of anger against the folly of his uncle.

This thing, too, which the Marchese Lamberto had announced his intention of doing, sinned against
all those virtues which, let the professions of the moral code say what they may, stand really
highest in an Italian estimation. It was eminently unwise; it was imprudent; it was indecorous;
it was calculated to produce scandal; it would bring disgrace upon a noble name; it was ridiculous;
and, besides all this, it necessarily drove another to "desperation."

"A fool! An insane idiot! Worst of all fools--an old fool! To think that a man, who had stood
so many years in the eyes of all men as he had stood, should come to such a downfall. It would
serve him no more than right, if it were possible, that all the consequences of what had been
done should fall on his own head."

Still, during all the musings which seemed to force him to the conclusion that the crime which
had been committed was the deed of the Marchese Ludovico, the old lawyer did not lose sight
of the idea which had been suggested to his mind by that exclamation of Ludovico on the first
sight of the murdered woman. He did not, in truth, as yet think that it was worth much; but
he kept it safe at the bottom of his mind, ready for being produced if subsequent circumstances
should seem to give any value to it.

After musing an hour while these thoughts passed through his mind, the old lawyer thought he
would go as far as the Palazzo del Governo to learn what steps had been taken, and whether--though
he had very little doubt on that point--his unfortunate young friend had been detained in custody.

Signor Pietro Logarini, the head of the police, was an old acquaintance of Signor Fortini,--as,
indeed was pretty well everybody in any sort of position of authority in the city.

"A bad business this, Signor Pietro," said Fortini, shaking his head.

"The worst business, Signor Giovacchino, that has happened in Ravenna as long as I can remember.
It is very terrible."

"Is the poor young fellow--?" Signor Fortini completed his question by a movement of his eyes,
of one shoulder, and one thumb, quite as intelligible to the person he addressed as any words
would have been.

"Yes, of course. There was no help for it, you know."

"Of course not. I suppose he came here as soon as he parted from me. It so happened that we
were together at the gate when the body was brought there," said Signor Fortini.

"So I understand. You will be called on for your evidence as to his manner on being confronted
with it."

"Of course; fortunately I have nothing to say on that point that can do any damage. He was
much moved, naturally; we both were; but nothing more than any man in his place would have been."

"But the worst, the only fatal point in that confession of his, is that the girl told him of
the Marchese Lamberto's intention of marrying her. Why in heaven's name did he let that slip out?"

"My notion is that it just did slip out, as you say. An old hand, a man accustomed to be at
odds with the laws and the police, would have known better. Did he make the same statement
here?" asked Fortini, rather surprised.

"On my asking him, as I felt compelled to do, what special conversation had passed between
him and the girl that morning, he told me the fact," replied the Commissary.

"But what led you to ask him such a question?" said Fortini.

"Ah!--something that had reached my ears. We are forced, you know, Signor Giovacchino, to have
very long ears in our business. His conversation with you to-day was held in the street,--a
bad place for such talk, Signor Giovacchino."

"And not chosen by me for such a purpose, as you may imagine. Little could I guess what sort
of confidence I was about to hear."

"Not that it makes any difference. All that would have had to come out, you know, Signor Giovacchino."

"Oh, quite so, quite so; no, no difference in the world. Did he come to you immediately on
leaving me?"

"No; it would have been better upon the whole if he had done so. He went first, it seems, to
the residence of a lady, one Signorina Paolina Foscarelli, being very desirous, he said, of
not leaving her to hear of the business from other lips than his own. It is a pity, because
his abstaining from flight might have been something in his favour, if he had not made it appear,
that his remaining in the city might have been caused by his desire to see again this Paolina.
Do you know anything about her? I see by our books that she came here last autumn from Venice.
What is she like?"

"It so happens that I never saw her. But I am told that she is pretty--very pretty--remarkably
so." "Ah--h--h! that's what kept the poor young fellow from running till it was too late to
run. And yet," continued the Commissary, pausing on his words, and tapping his forehead with
his finger as if a new idea had just occurred to him--"and yet the young Don Juan goes out
tete-a-tete into the forest with this other girl."

"Che volete?" returned the lawyer with a shrug. "Boys will be boys, and women--are women."

"Yes; but the women sometimes don't quite like--" and the Commissary allowed the remainder
of his sentence to remain unspoken, being apparently too much occupied with his thoughts to
speak it.

"I suppose the medical report can hardly have been made yet?" asked the lawyer, on whom the
suppressed meaning of the Police Commissary's broken sentence was not lost.

"No; there has not been time. It was too late in the afternoon. Professor Tomasarchi will make
a post-mortem examination the first thing to-morrow morning; and I daresay we shall have his
report in the course of the day, if, as is most likely, there is nothing to call for more than
a superficial examination."

"I shall be very anxious to hear the result of his investigation-- very. I will look in, if
you will allow me, to-morrow morning. And now I think I will go to that unfortunate man, the
Marchese Lamberto. I should not be at all surprised if I were to find that he had heard nothing
about all this. Only think what it is I shall have to tell him--the woman about whom he has
been so mad as to have determined on sacrificing to her everything, fame, position, friends,
respect,--everything--is dead! It is his monstrous proposal that has caused her death; and
the same folly has made the representative of his house a murderer and a felon. Think, Signor
Pietro, what that man's feelings must be when these tidings are told him."

"Depend upon it, the whole city knows all about it by this time," said the Commissary.

"But I think it exceedingly likely that he has not been out of his library, all day," returned
the lawyer.

"But the servants will have heard the news. Ill news travels fast," said the Commissary, with
a shrug.

"Yes; but the servants will hardly have ventured to repeat such tidings to him. Two to one
it will fall to my lot to tell him. A pleasant office, isn't it, Signor Pietro?"

"Not one I should like to undertake. Good-evening, Signor Giovacchino. If I don't see you to-morrow
morning I will send you a couple of lines with the result of the medical examination."

"Thanks, Signor Pietro; but I will look in about the beginning of your office hours to-morrow
morning. I feel as if I should be able to think of nothing else but this terrible business
for some time to come. Felice sera."

And so the old lawyer went off to call upon his client, the Marchese Lamberto, truly dreading
the interview, and yet not without a certain degree of satisfaction, and a kind of I-told-you-so
feeling in the prospect of announcing to the unhappy Marchese those terrible first-fruits of
the disastrous purpose, in condemnation of which the lawyer had spoken so strongly a few hours ago.

CHAPTER IV

The Marchese hears the Ill News

Signor Fortini judged rightly, when he said that he thought it probable that the Marchese Lamberto
had not quitted his library, from the time when he had left him there, after the conversation,
in which the Marchese had avowed his purpose with regard to La Bianca.

The shrewd lawyer had well understood, that the final decision with regard to such a purpose,
and the definite announcement of it, which the Marchese had made to him, his lawyer, were not
likely to dispose such a man to meet the eyes of his fellow-citizens. Had Fortini known that
the Marchese had been made aware of the purposed excursion of his nephew with the singer--as
the reader knows that he had been by the officious meddling of the Conte Leandro,--it might
have seemed strange that he should have chosen just that day and hour for the declaration of
his intention. Was it that he hastened to acquire such an authority over Bianca, as might enable
him to put an end to any such escapades for the future? Was it that he was infatuated to that
degree, that he feared, that if he did not make haste to secure the prize, it might be taken
from him by his nephew?

However this might have been, the overt step he had taken had certainly not had the effect
of tranquillizing his mind. The hours of that day, since the lawyer left him, had been passed
in the most miserable manner by him.

The servants had all learned, that there was something very decidedly wrong with their master.
The man who usually attended on him personally, surprised at his master spending the day in
a manner so unusual with him, had made various excuses to enter the library two or three times
in the course of the day. Each time he had found the Marchese, instead of being busily employed,
as was usual with him, when in his library, either sitting in his easy-chair with his hands
before him, and his head hanging on his breast, doing absolutely nothing; or else pacing up
and down the room.

