"Augusta, all is over! expect no more from your husband--believe no more of his promises--for
he is lost to you and you to him. Augusta, our property is gone; your property, which I have
blindly risked, is all swallowed up. But is that the worst? No, no, Augusta; I am lost--lost,
body and soul, and as irretrievably as the perishing riches I have squandered. Once I had energy--health--nerve--resolution;
but all are gone: yes, yes, I have yielded--I do yield daily to what is at once my tormentor
and my temporary refuge from intolerable misery. You remember the sad hour you first knew your
husband was a drunkard. Your look on that morning of misery--shall I ever forget it? Yet, blind
and confiding as you were, how soon did your ill-judged confidence in me return! Vain hopes!
I was even then past recovery--even then sealed over to blackness of darkness forever.

"Alas! my wife, my peerless wife, why am I your husband? why the father of such children as
you have given me? Is there nothing in your unequalled loveliness--nothing in the innocence
of our helpless babes, that is powerful enough to recall me? No, there is not.

"Augusta, you know not the dreadful gnawing, the intolerable agony of this master passion.
I walk the floor--I think of my own dear home, my high hopes, my proud expectations, my children,
my wife, my own immortal soul. I feel that I am sacrificing all--feel it till I am withered
with agony; but the hour comes--the burning hour, and all is in vain. I shall return to you
no more, Augusta. All the little wreck I have saved I send: you have friends, relatives--above
all, you have an energy of mind, a capacity of resolute action, beyond that of ordinary women,
and you shall never be bound--the living to the dead. True, you will suffer, thus to burst
the bonds that unite us; but be resolute, for you will suffer more to watch from day to day
the slow workings of death and ruin in your husband. Would you stay with me, to see every vestige
of what you once loved passing away--to endure the caprice, the moroseness, the delirious anger
of one no longer master of himself? Would you make your children victims and fellow-sufferers
with you? No! dark and dreadful is my path! I will walk it alone: no one shall go with me.

"In some peaceful retirement you may concentrate your strong feelings upon your children, and
bring them up to fill a place in your heart which a worthless husband has abandoned. If I leave
you now, you will remember me as I have been--you will love me and weep for me when dead; but
if you stay with me, your love will be worn out; I shall become the object of disgust and loathing.
Therefore farewell, my wife--my first, best love, farewell! with you I part with hope,--

          'And with hope, farewell fear,
    Farewell remorse: all good to me is lost:
    Evil, be thou my good.'

This is a wild strain, but fit for me: do not seek for me, do not write: nothing can save me."

Thus abruptly began and ended the letter that conveyed to Augusta the death doom of her hopes.
There are moments of agony when the most worldly heart is pressed upward to God, even as a
weight will force upward the reluctant water. Augusta had been a generous, a high-minded, an
affectionate woman, but she had lived entirely for this world. Her chief good had been her
husband and her children. These had been her pride, her reliance, her dependence. Strong in
her own resources, she had never felt the need of looking to a higher power for assistance
and happiness. But when this letter fell from her trembling hand, her heart died within her
at its wild and reckless bitterness.

In her desperation she looked up to God. "What have I to live for now?" was the first feeling
of her heart.

But she repressed this inquiry of selfish agony, and besought almighty assistance to nerve
her weakness; and here first began that practical acquaintance with the truths and hopes of
religion which changed her whole character.

The possibility of blind, confiding idolatry of any earthly object was swept away by the fall
of her husband, and with the full energy of a decided and desolate spirit, she threw herself
on the protection of an almighty Helper. She followed her husband to the city whither he had
gone, found him, and vainly attempted to save.

There were the usual alternations of short-lived reformations, exciting hopes only to be destroyed.
There was the gradual sinking of the body, the decay of moral feeling and principle--the slow
but sure approach of disgusting animalism, which marks the progress of the drunkard.

It was some years after that a small and partly ruinous tenement in the outskirts of A. received
a new family. The group consisted of four children, whose wan and wistful countenances, and
still, unchildlike deportment, testified an early acquaintance with want and sorrow. There
was the mother, faded and care-worn, whose dark and melancholy eyes, pale cheeks, and compressed
lips told of years of anxiety and endurance. There was the father, with haggard face, unsteady
step, and that callous, reckless air, that betrayed long familiarity with degradation and crime.
Who, that had seen Edward Howard in the morning and freshness of his days, could have recognized
him in this miserable husband and father? or who, in this worn and woe-stricken woman, would
have known the beautiful, brilliant, and accomplished Augusta? Yet such changes are not fancy,
as many a bitter and broken heart can testify.

Augusta had followed her guilty husband through many a change and many a weary wandering. All
hope of reformation had gradually faded away. Her own eyes had seen, her ears had heard, all
those disgusting details, too revolting to be portrayed; for in drunkenness there is no royal
road--no salvo for greatness of mind, refinement of taste, or tenderness of feeling. All alike
are merged in the corruption of a moral death.

The traveller, who met Edward reeling by the roadside, was sometimes startled to hear the fragments
of classical lore, or wild bursts of half-remembered poetry, mixing strangely with the imbecile
merriment of intoxication. But when he stopped to gaze, there was no further mark on his face
or in his eye by which he could be distinguished from the loathsome and lowest drunkard.

Augusta had come with her husband to a city where they were wholly unknown, that she might
at least escape the degradation of their lot in the presence of those who had known them in
better days. The long and dreadful struggle that annihilated the hopes of this life had raised
her feelings to rest upon the next, and the habit of communion with God, induced by sorrows
which nothing else could console, had given a tender dignity to her character such as nothing
else could bestow.

It is true, she deeply loved her children; but it was with a holy, chastened love, such as
inspired the sentiment once breathed by Him "who was made perfect through sufferings."

"For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified."

Poverty, deep poverty, had followed their steps, but yet she had not fainted. Talents which
in her happier days had been nourished merely as luxuries, were now stretched to the utmost
to furnish a support; while from the resources of her own reading she drew that which laid
the foundation for early mental culture in her children.

Augusta had been here but a few weeks before her footsteps were traced by her only brother,
who had lately discovered her situation, and urged her to forsake her unworthy husband and
find refuge with him.

"Augusta, my sister, I have found you!" he exclaimed, as he suddenly entered one day, while
she was busied with the work of her family.

"Henry, my dear brother!" There was a momentary illumination of countenance accompanying these
words, which soon faded into a mournful quietness, as she cast her eyes around on the scanty
accommodations and mean apartment.

"I see how it is, Augusta; step by step, you are sinking--dragged down by a vain sense of duty
to one no longer worthy. I cannot bear it any longer; I have come to take you away."

Augusta turned from him, and looked abstractedly out of the window. Her features settled in
thought. Their expression gradually deepened from their usual tone of mild, resigned sorrow
to one of keen anguish.

"Henry," said she, turning towards him, "never was mortal woman so blessed in another as I
once was in him. How can I forget it? Who knew him in those days that did not admire and love
him? They tempted and insnared him; and even I urged him into the path of danger. He fell,
and there was none to help. I urged reformation, and he again and again promised, resolved,
and began. But again they tempted him--even his very best friends; yes, and that, too, when
they knew his danger. They led him on as far as it was safe for them to go, and when the sweep
of his more excitable temperament took him past the point of safety and decency, they stood
by, and coolly wondered and lamented. How often was he led on by such heartless friends to
humiliating falls, and then driven to desperation by the cold look, averted faces, and cruel
sneers of those whose medium temperament and cooler blood saved them from the snares which
they saw were enslaving him. What if I had forsaken him then? What account should I have rendered
to God? Every time a friend has been alienated by his comrades, it has seemed to seal him with
another seal. I am his wife--and mine will be the last. Henry, when I leave him, I know his
eternal ruin is sealed. I cannot do it now; a little longer--a little longer; the hour, I see,
must come. I know my duty to my children forbids me to keep them here; take them--they are
my last earthly comforts, Henry--but you must take them away. It may be--O God--perhaps it
must be, that I shall soon follow; but not till I have tried once more. What is this present
life to one who has suffered as I have? Nothing. But eternity! O Henry! eternity--how can I
abandon him to everlasting despair! Under the breaking of my heart I have borne up. I have
borne up under all that can try a woman; but this thought----"

Her brother wept with her; nor dared he again to touch the point so solemnly guarded. The next
day Augusta parted from her children, hoping something from feelings that, possibly, might
be stirred by their absence in the bosom of their father.

It was about a week after this that Augusta one evening presented herself at the door of a
rich Mr. L., whose princely mansion was one of the ornaments of the city of A. It was not till
she reached the sumptuous drawing room that she recognized in Mr. L. one whom she and her husband
had frequently met in the gay circles of their early life. Altered as she was, Mr. L. did not
recognize her, but compassionately handed her a chair, and requested her to wait the return
of his lady, who was out; and then turning, he resumed his conversation with another gentleman.

"Now, Dallas," said he, "you are altogether excessive and intemperate in this matter. Society
is not to be reformed by every man directing his efforts towards his neighbor, but by every
man taking care of himself. It is you and I, my dear sir, who must begin with ourselves, and
every other man must do the same; and then society will be effectually reformed. Now this modern
way, by which every man considers it his duty to attend to the spiritual matters of his next-door
neighbor, is taking the business at the wrong end altogether. It makes a vast deal of appearance,
but it does very little good."

"But suppose your neighbor feels no disposition to attend to his own improvement--what then?"

"Why, then it is his own concern, and not mine. What my Maker requires is, that I do my duty,
and not fret about my neighbor's."

"But, my friend, that is the very question. What is the duty your Maker requires? Does it not
include some regard to your neighbor, some care and thought for his interest and improvement?"

"Well, well, I do that by setting a good example. I do not mean by example what you do--that
is, that I am to stop drinking wine because it may lead him to drink brandy, any more than
that I must stop eating because he may eat too much and become a dyspeptic--but that I am to
use my wine, and every thing else, temperately and decently, and thus set him a good example."

The conversation was here interrupted by the return of Mrs. L. It recalled, in all its freshness,
to the mind of Augusta the days when both she and her husband had thus spoken and thought.

Ah, how did these sentiments appear to her now--lonely, helpless, forlorn--the wife of a ruined
husband, the mother of more than orphan children! How different from what they seemed, when,
secure in ease, in wealth, in gratified affections, she thoughtlessly echoed the common phraseology,
"Why must people concern themselves so much in their neighbors' affairs? Let every man mind
his own business."

Augusta received in silence from Mrs. L. the fine sewing for which she came, and left the room.

"Ellen," said Mr. L. to his wife; "that poor woman must be in trouble of some kind or other.
You must go some time, and see if any thing can be done for her."

"How singular!" said Mrs. L.; "she reminds me all the time of Augusta Howard. You remember
her, my dear?"

"Yes, poor thing! and her husband too. That was a shocking affair of Edward Howard's. I hear
that he became an intemperate, worthless fellow. Who could have thought it!"

"But you recollect, my dear," said Mrs. L., "I predicted it six months before it was talked
of. You remember, at the wine party which you gave after Mary's wedding, he was so excited
that he was hardly decent. I mentioned then that he was getting into dangerous ways. But he
was such an excitable creature, that two or three glasses would put him quite beside himself.
And there is George Eldon, who takes off his ten or twelve glasses, and no one suspects it."

"Well, it was a great pity," replied Mr. L.; "Howard was worth a dozen George Eldons."

"Do you suppose," said Dallas, who had listened thus far in silence, "that if he had moved
in a circle where it was the universal custom to banish all stimulating drinks, he would thus
have fallen?"

"I cannot say," said Mr. L.; "perhaps not."

Mr. Dallas was a gentleman of fortune and leisure, and of an ardent and enthusiastic temperament.
Whatever engaged him absorbed his whole soul; and of late years, his mind had become deeply
engaged in schemes of philanthropy for the improvement of his fellow-men. He had, in his benevolent
ministrations, often passed the dwelling of Edward, and was deeply interested in the pale and
patient wife and mother. He made acquaintance with her through the aid of her children, and,
in one way and another, learned particulars of their history that awakened the deepest interest
and concern. None but a mind as sanguine as his would have dreamed of attempting to remedy
such hopeless misery by the reformation of him who was its cause. But such a plan had actually
occurred to him. The remarks of Mr. and Mrs. L. recalled the idea, and he soon found that his
intended protégé was the very Edward Howard whose early history was thus disclosed. He learned
all the minutiæ from these his early associates without disclosing his aim, and left them still
more resolved upon his benevolent plan.

He watched his opportunity when Edward was free from the influence of stimulus, and it was
just after the loss of his children had called forth some remains of his better nature. Gradually
and kindly he tried to touch the springs of his mind, and awaken some of its buried sensibilities.

"It is in vain, Mr. Dallas, to talk thus to me," said Edward, when, one day, with the strong
eloquence of excited feeling, he painted the motives for attempting reformation; "you might
as well attempt to reclaim the lost in hell. Do you think," he continued, in a wild, determined
manner--"do you think I do not know all you can tell me? I have it all by heart, sir; no one
can preach such discourses as I can on this subject: I know all--believe all--as the devils
believe and tremble."

"Ay, but," said Dallas, "to you there is hope; you are not to ruin yourself forever."

"And who the devil are you, to speak to me in this way?" said Edward, looking up from his sullen
despair with a gleam of curiosity, if not of hope.

"God's messenger to you, Edward Howard," said Dallas, fixing his keen eye upon him solemnly;
"to you, Edward Howard, who have thrown away talents, hope, and health--who have blasted the
heart of your wife, and beggared your suffering children. To you I am the messenger of your
God--by me he offers health, and hope, and self-respect, and the regard of your fellow-men.
You may heal the broken heart of your wife, and give back a father to your helpless children.
Think of it, Howard: what if it were possible? Only suppose it. What would it be again to feel
yourself a man, beloved and respected as you once were, with a happy home, a cheerful wife,
and smiling little ones? Think how you could repay your poor wife for all her tears! What hinders
you from gaining all this?"

"Just what hindered the rich man in hell--'between us there is a great gulf fixed;' it lies
between me and all that is good; my wife, my children, my hope of heaven, are all on the other
side."

"Ay, but this gulf can be passed: Howard, what would you give to be a temperate man?"

"What would I give?" said Howard. He thought for a moment, and burst into tears.

"Ah, I see how it is," said Dallas; "you need a friend, and God has sent you one."

"What can you do for me, Mr. Dallas?" said Edward, in a tone of wonder at the confidence of
his assurances.

"I will tell you what I can do: I can take you to my house, and give you a room, and watch
over you until the strongest temptations are past--I can give you business again. I can do
all for you that needs to be done, if you will give yourself to my care."

"O God of mercy!" exclaimed the unhappy man, "is there hope for me? I cannot believe it possible;
but take me where you choose--I will follow and obey."

A few hours witnessed the transfer of the lost husband to one of the retired apartments in
the elegant mansion of Dallas, where he found his anxious and grateful wife still stationed
as his watchful guardian.

Medical treatment, healthful exercise, useful employment, simple food, and pure water were
connected with a personal supervision by Dallas, which, while gently and politely sustained,
at first amounted to actual imprisonment.

For a time the reaction from the sudden suspension of habitual stimulus was dreadful, and even
with tears did the unhappy man entreat to be permitted to abandon the undertaking. But the
resolute steadiness of Dallas and the tender entreaties of his wife prevailed. It is true that
he might be said to be saved "so as by fire;" for a fever, and a long and fierce delirium,
wasted him almost to the borders of the grave.

But, at length, the struggle between life and death was over, and though it left him stretched
on the bed of sickness, emaciated and weak, yet he was restored to his right mind, and was
conscious of returning health. Let any one who has laid a friend in the grave, and known what
it is to have the heart fail with longing for them day by day, imagine the dreamy and unreal
joy of Augusta when she began again to see in Edward the husband so long lost to her. It was
as if the grave had given back the dead.

"Augusta!" said he, faintly, as, after a long and quiet sleep, he awoke free from delirium.
She bent over him. "Augusta, I am redeemed--I am saved--I feel in myself that I am made whole."

The high heart of Augusta melted at these words. She trembled and wept. Her husband wept also,
and after a pause he continued,--

"It is more than being restored to this life--I feel that it is the beginning of eternal life.
It is the Savior who sought me out, and I know that he is able to keep me from falling."

But we will draw a veil over a scene which words have little power to paint.

"Pray, Dallas," said Mr. L., one day, "who is that fine-looking young man whom I met in your
office this morning? I thought his face seemed familiar."

"It is a Mr. Howard--a young lawyer whom I have lately taken into business with me."

"Strange! Impossible!" said Mr. L. "Surely this cannot be the Howard that I once knew."

"I believe he is," said Mr. Dallas.

"Why, I thought he was gone--dead and done over, long ago, with intemperance."

"He was so; few have ever sunk lower; but he now promises even to outdo all that was hoped of him."

"Strange! Why, Dallas, what did bring about this change?"

"I feel a delicacy in mentioning how it came about to you, Mr. L., as there undoubtedly was
a great deal of 'interference with other men's matters' in the business. In short, the young
man fell in the way of one of those meddlesome fellows, who go prowling about, distributing
tracts, forming temperance societies, and all that sort of stuff."

"Come, come, Dallas," said Mr. L., smiling, "I must hear the story, for all that."

"First call with me at this house," said Dallas, stopping before the door of a neat little
mansion. They were soon in the parlor. The first sight that met their eyes was Edward Howard,
who, with a cheek glowing with exercise, was tossing aloft a blooming boy, while Augusta was
watching his motions, her face radiant with smiles.

"Mr. and Mrs. Howard, this is Mr. L., an old acquaintance, I believe."

There was a moment of mutual embarrassment and surprise, soon dispelled, however, by the frank
cordiality of Edward. Mr. L. sat down, but could scarce withdraw his eyes from the countenance
of Augusta, in whose eloquent face he recognized a beauty of a higher cast than even in her
earlier days.

He glanced about the apartment. It was simply but tastefully furnished, and wore an air of
retired, domestic comfort. There were books, engravings, and musical instruments. Above all,
there were four happy, healthy-looking children, pursuing studies or sports at the farther
end of the room.

After a short call they regained the street.

"Dallas, you are a happy man," said Mr. L.; "that family will be a mine of jewels to you."

He was right. Every soul saved from pollution and ruin is a jewel to him that reclaims it,
whose lustre only eternity can disclose; and therefore it is written, "They that be wise shall
shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness, as the
stars forever and ever."

COUSIN WILLIAM.

In a stately red house, in one of the villages of New England, lived the heroine of our story.
She had every advantage of rank and wealth, for her father was a deacon of the church, and
owned sheep, and oxen, and exceeding much substance. There was an appearance of respectability
and opulence about all the demesnes. The house stood almost concealed amid a forest of apple
trees, in spring blushing with blossoms, and in autumn golden with fruit. And near by might
be seen the garden, surrounded by a red picket fence, enclosing all sorts of magnificence.
There, in autumn, might be seen abundant squash vines, which seemed puzzled for room where
to bestow themselves; and bright golden squashes, and full-orbed yellow pumpkins, looking as
satisfied as the evening sun when he has just had his face washed in a shower, and is sinking
soberly to bed. There were superannuated seed cucumbers, enjoying the pleasures of a contemplative
old age; and Indian corn, nicely done up in green silk, with a specimen tassel hanging at the
end of each ear. The beams of the summer sun darted through rows of crimson currants, abounding
on bushes by the fence, while a sulky black currant bush sat scowling in one corner, a sort
of garden curiosity.

But time would fail us were we to enumerate all the wealth of Deacon Israel Taylor. He himself
belonged to that necessary class of beings, who, though remarkable for nothing at all, are
very useful in filling up the links of society. Far otherwise was his sister-in-law, Mrs. Abigail
Evetts, who, on the demise of the deacon's wife, had assumed the reins of government in the
household.

This lady was of the same opinion that has animated many illustrious philosophers, namely,
that the affairs of this world need a great deal of seeing to in order to have them go on prosperously;
and although she did not, like them, engage in the supervision of the universe, she made amends
by unremitting diligence in the department under her care. In her mind there was an evident
necessity that every one should be up and doing: Monday, because it was washing day; Tuesday,
because it was ironing day; Wednesday, because it was baking day; Thursday, because to-morrow
was Friday; and so on to the end of the week. Then she had the care of reminding all in the
house of every thing each was to do from week's end to week's end; and she was so faithful
in this respect, that scarcely an original act of volition took place in the family. The poor
deacon was reminded when he went out and when he came in, when he sat down and when he rose
up, so that an act of omission could only have been committed through sheer malice prepense.

But the supervision of a whole family of children afforded to a lady of her active turn of
mind more abundant matter of exertion. To see that their faces were washed, their clothes mended,
and their catechism learned; to see that they did not pick the flowers, nor throw stones at
the chickens, nor sophisticate the great house dog, was an accumulation of care that devolved
almost entirely on Mrs. Abigail, so that, by her own account, she lived and throve by a perpetual
miracle.

