The F.M. Wee-wee; may ELLA est la plus viaile, vous savvy. Look at ELLA, ALMA, and see how
she does it!

Mad. Vous marchez toujours--toujours, ALMA; tâchez donc de glisser un petit peu--c'est beaucoup
plus facile!

Alma. Snay pas facile quand vous avez les skates toutes sur un côté--comme moi, Ma'amzell!

F.M. Ne repondy à Ma'amzell, ALMA, and watch ELLA!

Ella. Regardez-moi, ALMA. Je puis voler vîte--oh, mais vîte ... oh, I have hurt myself so!

Alma (with sisterly sympathy). That's what comes of trying to show off, ELLA, darling! [ELLA
is helped to the bank.

A Paternal Skate-Fastener. 'Ere you are, Missie--set down on this 'ere cheer--and you, too,
my little dear--lor, they won't do them cheers no 'arm, Mum, bless their little 'arts! Lemme
tyke yer little skites orf, my pooties. I'll be keerful, Mum--got childring o' my own at 'ome--the
moral o' your two, Mum!

The F.M. (to Governess). Sayt un homme avec un bong ker. Avez-vous--er--des cuivres, Ma'amzell?

The P.S. (disgustedly). Wot?--on'y two bloomin' browns fur tykin' the skites orf them two kids'
trotters! I want a shellin' orf o' you fur that job, I do ... "Not another penny"? Well, if
you do everythink as cheap as you do yer skiting, you orter be puttin' money by, you ought!
That's right, tyke them snivellin' kids 'ome--blast me if ever I--&c, &c, &c.

    [Exit party, pursued by powerful metaphors.

The Egotistic Skater (in charge of a small Niece). Just see if you can get along by yourself
a little--I'll come back presently. Practise striking out.

The Niece. But, Uncle, directly I strike out, I fall down!

The E.S. (encouragingly). You will at first, till you get into it--gives you confidence. Keep
on at it--don't stand about, or you'll catch cold. I shall be keeping my eye on you!

    [Skates off to better ice.

The Fancy Skater (to less accomplished Friend). This is a pretty figure--sort of variation
of the "Cross Cut," ending up with "The Vine;" it's done this way (illustrating), quarter of
circle on outside edge forwards; then sudden stop--(He sits down with violence.) Didn't quite
come off that time!

The Friend. The sudden stop came off right enough, old fellow!

The F.S. I'll show you again--it's really a neat thing when it's well done; you do it all on
one leg, like this--

    [Executes an elaborate back-fall.

His Friend. You seem to do most of it on no legs at all, old chap!

The F.S. Haven't practised it lately, that's all. Now here's a figure I invented myself. "The
Swooping Hawk" I call it.

His Friend (unkindly--as the F.S. comes down in the form of a St. Andrew's Cross). Y-yes. More
like a Spread Eagle though, ain't it?

A Pretty Girl (to Mr. ACKMEY, who has been privileged to take charge of herself and her plain
Sister). Do come and tell me if I'm doing it right, Mr. ACKMEY. You said you'd go round with me!

The Plain S. How can you be so selfish, FLORRIE? You've had ever so much more practice than
I have! Mr. ACKMEY, I wish you'd look at my left boot--it will go like that. Is it my ankle--or
what? And this strap is hurting me so! Couldn't you loosen it, or take me back to the man,
or something? FLORRIE can get on quite well alone, can't she?

Mr. A. (temporising feebly). Er--suppose I give each of you a hand, eh?

The Plain S. No; I can't go along fast, like you and LAURA. You promised to look after me,
and I'm perfectly helpless alone!

The Pretty S. Then, am I to go by myself, Mr. ACKMEY?

Mr. A. I--I think--just for a little, if you don't mind!

The Pretty S. Mind? Not a bit! There's CLARA WILLOUGHBY and her brother on the next ring, I'll
go over to them. Take good care of ALICE, Mr. ACKMET. Good-bye for the present.

    [She goes; ALICE doesn't think Mr. A. is "nearly so nice
    as he used to be."

The Reckless Rough. Now then, I'm on 'ere. Clear the way, all of yer! Parties must look out
fur theirselves when they see me a comin', I carn't stop fur nobody!

    [Rushes round the ring at a tremendous pace.

An Admiring Sweeper (following his movements with enthusiasm). Theer he goes--the Ornimental
Skyter! Look at 'im a buzzin' round! Lor, it's a treat to see 'im bowlin' 'em all over like
a lot er bloomin' ninepins! Go it, ole FRANKY, my son--don't you stop to apollergise!... Ah,
there he goes on his nut agen! 'E don't care, not 'e!... Orf he goes agin!... That's another
on 'em down, and ole FRANKY atop--'e'll 'ave the ring all to isself presently! Up agin! Oh,
ain't he lovely! I never see his loike afore nowheres ... Round yer go--that's the stoyle!
My eyes, if he ain't upset another--a lydy this time--she's done 'er skytin fur the d'y, any
'ow! and ole FRANK knocked silly ... Well, I ain't larfed ser much in all my life! [He is left
laughing.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURATE TO HIS SLIPPERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Own First-Class Clipper sends us the following from the Manchester Guardian, Dec. 11th:--

    GROCERY.--Wanted, a live Sugar Wrapper. Apply, &c.

    SHOE TRADE.--Wanted, good Hand-sewn Men. Apply, &c.

    DRAPERY.--Wanted, for the first three weeks in January, several
    Men, for sale. Apply by letter, stating experience, &c., to ----.

Would a Spirit Rapper be accepted for the first? and a man who had got a stitch in his side
for the second? As for the third, there are so many people sold at Christmas time, that to
provide a few men for sale would be no very difficult task.