North and South had scarcely grasped the full significance of Lee's surrender, when, only five
days later, Lincoln was assassinated. "It would be impossible for me," said Grant, "to describe
the feeling that overcame me at the news. I felt that reconstruction had been set back, no
telling how far." "Of all the men I ever met," said Sherman, "he seemed to possess more of
the elements of greatness, combined with goodness, than any other."

On the very day of the assassination Sherman had written to Johnston offering the same terms
Grant had given Lee and Lincoln had most heartily approved. Three days later, on the seventeenth,
just as Sherman was entering the train for his meeting with Johnston, the operator handed him
a telegram announcing the assassination. Enjoining secrecy till he returned, Sherman took the
telegram with him and showed it to Johnston, whom he watched intently. When Sherman got back
to Raleigh he published the news in general orders, and experienced the supreme satisfaction
of finding that not one man in all that mournful army had to be restrained from a single act
of revenge.

After much misunderstanding with Washington now in lesser hands, the surrender of Johnston's
and the other Confederate armies was effected. Each body of troops laid down its arms and quietly
dispersed. One day the bugles called, the camp fires burned, and comrades were together in
the ranks. The next, like morning mists, they disappeared, thenceforth to be remembered and
admired only as the heroes of a hopeless cause.

It was a very different scene through which their rivals marched into lasting fame with all
the pride, pomp, and circumstance of war. On the twenty-third and twenty-fourth of May, in
perfect weather, and in the stirring presence of a loyal, vast, enthusiastic throng, the Union
armies were reviewed in Washington. For over six full hours each day the troops marched past--the
very flower of those who had come back victorious. The route was flagged from end to end with
Stars and Stripes, and banked with friends of each and every regiment there. Between these
banks, and to the sound of thrilling martial music, the long blue column flowed--a living stream
of men whose bayonets made its surface flash like burnished silver under the glorious sun.

Then, when the pageantry was finished, and the volunteers that formed the vast bulk of those
magnificent Federal armies had again become American civilians in thought and word and deed,
these steadfast men, whose arms had saved the Union in the field, were first in peace as they
had been in war: first in the reconstruction of their country's interrupted life, first in
recognizing all that was best in the splendid fighters with whom they had crossed swords, and
first--incomparably first--in keeping one and indivisible the reunited home land of both North
and South.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

Thousands of books have been written about the Civil War; and more about the armies than about
the navies and the civil interests together. Yet, even about the armies, there are very few
that give a just idea of how every part of the war was correlated with every other part and
with the very complex whole; while fewer still give any idea of how closely the navies were
correlated with the armies throughout the long amphibious campaigns.

The only works mentioned here are either those containing the original evidence or those written
by experts directly from the original evidence. And of course there are a good many works belonging
to both these classes for which no room can be found in a bibliography so very brief as the
present one must be. (1894-), form two magnificent collections of original evidence published
by the United States Government. But they have some gaps which nothing else can fill. Battles
and Leaders of the Civil War (1887-89), written by competent witnesses on both sides, gives
the gist of the story in four volumes (published afterwards in eight). The Rebellion Record,
12 vols. (1862-68), edited by Frank Moore, forms an interesting collection of non-official
documents. The Story of the Civil War, 4 vols. (1895-1913), begun by J. C. Ropes, and continued
by W. R. Livermore, is an historical work of real value. Larned's Literature of American History
contains an excellent bibliography; but it needs supplementing by bibliographies of the present
century. Inquiring readers should consult the bibliographies in volumes 20 and 21 (by J. K.
Hosmer) in the American Nation series.

There are many works of a more special kind that deserve particular attention. General E. P.
Alexander's Military Memoirs of a Confederate (1907), the Transactions of the Military Historical
Society of Massachusetts, Major John Bigelow's The Campaign of Chancellorsville (1910), and
J. D. Cox's Military Reminiscences, 2 vols. (1900), are admirable specimens of this very extensive
class.

The two greatest generals on the Northern side have written their own memoirs, and written
them exceedingly well: Personal Memoirs of U. S. Grant, 2 vols. (1885-86), and Memoirs of General
W. T. Sherman, 2 vols. (1886). But the two greatest on the Southern side wrote nothing themselves;
and no one else has written a really great life of that very great commander, Robert Lee. Fitzhugh
Lee's enthusiastic sketch of his uncle, General Lee (1894), is one of the several second-rate
books on the subject. Colonel G. F. R. Henderson's Stonewall Jackson and the American Civil
War, 2 vols. (1898), is, on the other hand, among the best of war biographies. Henderson's
strategical study of the Valley Campaign is a masterpiece. Two good works of very different
kinds are: A History of the Civil War in the United States (1905), by W. Birkbeck Wood and
Major J. E. Edmonds, and A History of the United States from the Compromise of 1850, 8 vols.
(1893-1919), by James Ford Rhodes. The first is military, the second political. Mr. Rhodes
has also written a single volume History of the Civil War (1917). American Campaigns by Major
M. F. Steele, issued under the supervision of the War Department (1909), deals chiefly with
the military operations of the Civil War.

The naval side of this, as of all other wars, has been far too much neglected. But that great
historian of sea-power, Admiral Mahan, has told the best of the story in his Admiral Farragut
(1892).

An interesting contemporary account of the war will be found in the five volumes of Appleton's
American Annual Cyclopœdia for the years from 1861 to 1865. B. J. Lossing's Pictorial History
of the Civil War, 3 vols. (1866-69), and Harper's Pictorial History of the Rebellion, 2 vols.
(1868), give graphic pictures of military life as seen by contemporaries. Personal reminiscences
of the war, of varying merit, have multiplied rapidly in recent years. These are appraised
for the unwary reader in the bibliographies already mentioned. Frank Wilkeson's Recollections
of a Private Soldier in the Army of the Potomac (1887), George C. Eggleston's A Rebel's Recollections
(1905), and Mrs. Mary B. Chestnut's Diary from Dixie (1905) are among the best of these personal
recollections.

The political and diplomatic history has been dealt with already in the two preceding Chronicles.
Abraham Lincoln: a History, by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, in ten volumes (1890), and The
Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln, in twelve volumes (1905), form the quarry from which all
true accounts of his war statesmanship must be built up. Lord Charnwood's Abraham Lincoln (1917)
is an admirable summary. To these titles should be added Gideon Welles's Diary, 3 vols. (1870).
The best life of Jefferson Davis is that by William E. Dodd in the American Crisis Biographies
(1907). W. H. Russell's My Diary North and South (1863) records the impressions of an intelligent
foreign observer.

The present Chronicle is based entirely on the original evidence, with the convenient use only
of such works as have themselves been written by qualified experts directly from the original
evidence.

INDEX

Alabama, secedes; in 1864; threatened
Alabama, Confederate raider; Kearsarge and; and Hatteras
Albatross, ship
Albemarle, Confederate ram, Cushing destroys
Albemarle Sound, command lost
Alexandria (Louisiana), State Seminary of Learning and Military Academy
Allatoona (Georgia), Johnston evacuates; Corse's defense of
"Anaconda policy"
Anderson, Colonel Charles, quotes Lee
Anderson, Major Robert, commands at Fort Moultrie; at Fort Sumter;
  surrender; leaves Fort Sumter; appointed to Kentucky command;
  superseded by Sherman
Annapolis, Union troops at
Antietam (Maryland), battle
Apache Cañon, fight in
Appomattox Court House (Virginia), Lee's surrender
Appomattox Station, Custer raids
Aquia, McClellan's troops at
Archer, J. T., Confederate brigadier
Arizona, "War in the West"
Arkansas secedes,
Arkansas, Confederate ram
Arkansas Post, capture of
Arlington, home of General Lee
Armstrong, Commodore, at Pensacola
Army, Confederate, Act providing for enlistment; at Harper's Ferry;
  Jackson and; lack of equipment; advantages; conscription; munitions;
  relations with Federals at Vicksburg; Army of Northern Virginia;
  unrenewable wastage; number of troops (1865); Lee's farewell to
Army, Federal, enlistments; Congress votes troops and money;
  McDowell's; regulars in; number of troops; conscription; organization;
  Grant's (1862); Army of the Cumberland; Army of the Mississippi; Army
  of the Ohio; well equipped; Army of the Potomac; Army of the Tennessee;
  Army of Virginia; relations with Confederates at Vicksburg; Army of the
  James; reviewed in Washington
Army Act, Provisional Confederate Congress passes
Ashby, Turner, Confederate cavalry leader; at Harrisonburg; Valley raid;
  death
Ashby's Gap, Johnston crosses Blue Ridge at
Ashland (Virginia), Jackson at
Atlanta, Southern cannon made at; Northern objective; battle; Sherman
  announces fall of; effect of victory; Sherman's headquarters; last
  action near
Atlanta, Confederate ram captured by Weehawken
Averell, W. D., cavalry leader

Bailey, Colonel Joseph
Bailey, Captain Theodorus
Balloons
Baltimore, Secessionists at Fort Sumter; Massachusetts troops mobbed in;
  Jackson's plan to occupy
Baltimore and Ohio Railway, Jackson destroys workshop
Banks, General N. P., supersedes General Butler; on the Mississippi
  (1862); (1863); commands in Shenandoah Valley; in Shenandoah campaign;
  incapacity; commands Red River Expedition
Barrancas Barracks
Bartow, General F. S., Bull Run; killed
Baton Rouge, Union Arsenal at; Farragut captures; Confederate attack;
  Union Navy wins way to
"Battle above the Clouds," Lookout Mountain
Baylor, Captain J. R., proclaims himself Governor of New Mexico
Beauregard. General P. G. T., sons at Louisiana Military Academy; and
  Fort Sumter; on the Potomac; at Bull Run; preparation for Shiloh;
  battle of Shiloh; Corinth; and Confederate plans; attacks Butler;
  telegram to Lee; command of troops opposed to Sherman
Beauregard, Fort
Beaver Dam Creek (Virginia), Porter's front at Mechanicsville
Bee, General B. E., Bull Run; killed
Bell, Commodore H. H.
Belmont (Missouri), Grant attacks
Benjamin, J. P., Confederate Secretary of War
Benton, flagship
Bentonville (North Carolina), battle
Bering Sea, Shenandoah in
Bermuda Hundred (Virginia), Butler seizes
Beverly (West Virginia), Confederates retire to
Big Black River (Mississippi), Grant's victory at
Birge, H. W., and sharpshooters
Bixby, Mrs., letter to
Blackburn's Ford (Virginia), McDowell at
Blair, General F. P., fight for Missouri; as a general
Blockade, declared; effectiveness; blockade-runners; on Mississippi;
  attempts to break; double line necessary
Bloody Angle, salient in Spotsylvania action
Bonham, General M. L., Bull Run
Boonville (Missouri), battle
Boston Mountains, Confederates hold
Bowling Green (Kentucky), Johnston at; Johnston abandons
Brackett, Colonel A. G., quoted
Bragg, General Braxton; at Baton Rouge; preparations for Shiloh; succeeds
  Beauregard; invasion of Kentucky; march on Nashville; sends out Morgan;
  Chickamauga; Chattanooga; Missionary Ridge
Brandy Station (Virginia), cavalry combat at
Brentwood (Tennessee), Schofield at
Brice's Cross Roads (Mississippi), Forrest defeats Sturgis at
Bristoe Station (Virginia), bridge burned
Brooklyn, fight with Manassas; against Fort Morgan
Brown, John
Brown, J. E., Governor of Georgia
Bruinsburg (Louisiana), Grant lands force at
Buchanan, Commodore Franklin
Buckingham, General C. P., and McClellan
Buckner, General S. B., as a general; Fort Donelson; surrender; and Grant
Buell, General D. C., commands in West; and Halleck; preparations
  for Shiloh; battle of Shiloh; commands Army of the Ohio; end of service
Buford, John, cavalry leader at Gettysburg
Bull Run, First campaign; public clamor for action; disposition of forces;
  Confederate problem; Falling Waters; Federal preparations; Blackburn's
  Ford; McDowell advances; Confederate preparations and plans; Federal
  advance; Confederate rout; Confederates rally; Stuart's charge; Federal
  retreat; losses; importance; number of troops
Bull Run, Second campaign, maneuvering for; battle
Burns, John, at Gettysburg
Burnside, General A. E.; failure in Virginia; succeeds McClellan; as a
  general; at Fredericksburg; "Mud March"; Knoxville; at Petersburg
Butler, General Benjamin, Bull Run; in North Carolina; Mississippi
  campaign; Banks supersedes; against Fort Fisher; commands Army of the
  James; at Bermuda Hundred; retreat from Drewry's Bluff

Cairo (Illinois), Grant in command at
Caldwell, Lieutenant, of the Itasca
California, invasion of
Cameron, Simon, Secretary of War; and Sherman; Stanton succeeds
Canby, Colonel E. R. S., at Valverde
Carolinas, danger from West Virginia; secede; effective for South (1864);
  menace to; Sherman's march through; scene of action (1865); see also
  North Carolina, South Carolina
Carondelet, Federal gunboat
Castle Pinckney
Catlett's Station (Virginia) Shields at; Banks near
Cayuga, Federal gunboat
Cedar Creek (Virginia), Sheridan's ride to
Cedar Run (Virginia), battle
Cemetery Hill (Gettysburg), Early fails at
Centreville (Virginia), in Bull Run campaign; Confederate base; McDowell's
  corps at
Chambersburg (Pennsylvania), Federals at; Stuart's raid
Champion's Hill (Mississippi), fight of
Chancellorsville (Virginia), battle of; plans; Federal defeat
Charleston (South Carolina), forts; beginning of hostilities; United States
  Arsenal seized; surrender of Fort Sumter; menaced; naval combats around;
  bombardment; defenses in Southern hands; Savannah citizens go to
Charlestown (West Virginia), Patterson advances to
Charlotte (North Carolina), Southern cannon made in
Chase, S. P., Secretary of Treasury
Chase, Colonel W. H.. demands surrender of Fort Pickens
Chattahoochee River, Johnston crosses
Chattanooga, Buell's objective; Bragg's base; Confederates retire on; Bragg
  at (1863); key to strategic area; battles on Missionary Ridge and Lookout
  Mountain; significance of victory; Grant moves headquarters from; Grant
  inspects; Federal headquarters; Sherman starts from
Chestnut, James, Confederate officer at Fort Sumter
Chickamauga (Georgia), battle; result of Federal defeat
Chickasaw Bluffs (Mississippi), Sherman's assault
Cincinnati, Grant's charger
Cincinnati (Ohio), Confederate objective
City Point (Virginia), Union leaders meet at
Civil control vs. civil interference
Clarksburg (West Virginia), Jackson born at
Cold Harbor (Virginia), Battle of; result
Columbia (South Carolina), Sherman at
Columbus (Kentucky), Confederates at
Commerce, importance to South; protection of; Confederate raiders
  interfere with
Congress, Confederate, passes Army and Navy Acts
Congress, United States, vote for army; Welles's report to; authorizes
  Promotion Board
Congress, Merrimac and
Conscription; Act
Contraband, importation into South
Cooke, General, pursues Stuart
Copperheads; see also Pacifists
Corinth (Mississippi), Confederate railway junction at; Johnston's line at;
  Beauregard retires after Pittsburg Landing; importance of position;
  Beauregard at; Federal advance on; Confederate objective; Rosecrans
  defeats Van Dorn at
Corse, General J. M., at Allatoona
Cox, General J. D., Kanawha campaign; newspaper lies about
Craig, Fort, Valverde near
Crocker, General M. M.
Crook, General George, cavalry commander
Cross Keys (Virginia), battle
Culpeper, Johnston retires to; Lee at; Grant's headquarters
Culp's Hill (Gettysburg), Confederate victory on
Cumberland, Merrimac and
Cumberland Gap, Johnston threatened at; Federal brigade against;
  winter (1864)
Cummings Point (South Carolina), batteries at
Curtis, General S. R., at Pea Ridge; compared with Halleck
Cushing, Lieutenant A. H., Pickett's Charge
Cushing, Lieutenant W. B., destroys Albemarle
Custer, General G. A., at Cedar Creek; raids Appomattox Station
Custis, Mary, wife of Lee
Cynthiana (Kentucky), Morgan defeated at

Dalton (Georgia), Johnston at
Dandelion, U. S. S., Sherman on
Darrow, Mrs., and Lee; quoted
Davis, Flag-Officer C. H., Mississippi flotilla under; succeeds Foote
Davis, Jefferson, President of Confederacy, 11; personal characteristics;
  as executive; interference in military matters; stands for "Independence
  or extermination"; military mistakes; plans flight from Richmond; and
  Lee; and Johnston; Lincoln on; receives word of Southern defeat (April
  2, 1865)
Deerhound, English yacht; rescues crew of Alabama
Donaldsonville (Louisiana), Confederate attack on
Donelson, Fort, Johnston holds; Confederates from Fort Henry start for;
  importance; Grant before; Floyd and Pillow escape from; surrender;
  results of surrender; number of troops
Doubleday, General Abner, succeeds Reynolds; at Gettysburg
Drayton, Captain, of the Hartford
Drewry's Bluff (Virginia), Confederate defenses at; Federal gunboats
  stopped at; Butler's retreat from
Du Pont, Admiral S. F., Port Royal expedition; at Charleston

Eads, J. B., shipbuilder
Early, General Jubal, advance toward Washington; attack at Cedar Creek
Eaton, John, quoted
Elkhorn Tavern and Pea Ridge, battle of
Ellet, Colonel Charles, civil engineer
Emancipation, Lincoln and
Ericsson, John, shipbuilder
Essex, gunboat before Fort Henry
Ewell, General R. S., in Jackson's Valley campaign; in Shenandoah
  Valley; Gettysburg
Ezra Church (Georgia), battle

Fair Oaks (Virginia), battle
Fairfax Court House (Virginia), Confederate conference at
Falling Waters (West Virginia), battle in Bull Run campaign
Farragut, Admiral D. G.; efficiency; commands squadron at Ship Island;
  ancestry; age; fleet; and his subordinates; New Orleans; at Fort St.
  Philip; orders; on to Vicksburg; captures Baton Rouge; returns to New
  Orleans; Gulf blockade; becomes ranking admiral; again at New Orleans;
  occupies Galveston; success of 1862; Lincoln and; prepares to attack
  Port Hudson; and Banks; goes up Mississippi; again to New Orleans;
  leaves for New York; and the Navy (1863-64); and Mobile; takes Fort
  Morgan; at Fort Fisher
Farrand, Captain, demands surrender of Fort Pickens
Ferragut, Don Pedro, ancestor of Farragut
Fingal, blockade-runner converted into ram
Fisher, Fort, bombardment; surrender
Five Forks (Virginia), battle
Florence (Alabama), Hood near
Florida, beginning of war in; secedes; Confederate troops withdrawn from
Florida, Confederate raider
Flournoy, Colonel T. S., leader of Virginians in Valley campaign
Floyd, J. B., Secretary of War; Kanawha campaign; Fort Donelson; escape
Foote, Flag-Officer A. H., ability; Fort Henry; Fort Donelson; wounded;
  Island Number Ten; Davis succeeds
Forrest, General N. B., and Grant; cavalry raids
Foster, Lieutenant H. C.
Fox, G. V., Assistant Secretary of Navy
France, intervention in Mexico
Franklin (Tennessee), Hood reaches
Frayser's Farm, battle
Frederick (Maryland), McClellan's army at
Fredericksburg (Virginia), McDowell at; Burnside's headquarters; battle;
  "Mud March"; result of battle; menace to Richmond from; Lee suspects
  Federal retirement on
Frémont, General J. C., commands "Western Department"; in West Virginia;
  and Jackson's Valley campaign; dismissal; replaced by Sigel
Front Royal (Virginia), Banks at; battle; McDowell arrives at; Jackson
  destroys Federal stores at
Frost, Brigadier-General D. M., at Camp Jackson; surrenders

Gaines's Mill, battle
Galveston (Texas), occupied by Farragut; again in Confederate hands,
Gardner, Colonel, Anderson replaces at Charleston
Garfield, Colonel J. A., at Prestonburg
Garnett, General R. S., killed
Georgia, secedes; beginning of war in; effective for South (1864); Sherman
  threatens; scene of action; Sherman's March to the Sea
Getty, General G. W., at Cedar Creek
Gettysburg campaign; Lee's defeat; cavalry combat; government interference;
  Meade succeeds Hooker; battle; Little Round Top; importance of location;
  first day; second day; third day; Pickett's Charge; Lee's retreat
Gilman, Lieutenant, in Florida; at Fort Pickens
Gloucester Point (Virginia), Federals fail to take fort at
Goldsboro (North Carolina), Sherman at
Governor Moore, Confederate vessel
Grafton (West Virginia), Federal line at
Grand Gulf (Mississippi), Grant's objective
Granger, General Gordon, at Fort Morgan
Grant, Jesse, father of General Grant
Grant, Matthew, ancestor of General Grant
Grant, Noah, great-grand-father of General Grant
Grant, Solomon, great-granduncle of General Grant
Grant, General U. S.; and Lyon; at Belmont (Missouri); age; River war
  of 1863; commands at Cairo; at Fort Henry; ancestors; early life;
  appearance; Fort Donelson; as a soldier; "unconditional surrender";
  desire to push South; ordered arrested for insubordination; at
  Pittsburg Landing; Shiloh; made second in command; relations with
  Halleck; as a leader; commands Army of the Tennessee; Vicksburg as
  objective; holds Memphis-Corinth rails; "most anxious period of the
  war"; Holly Springs; returns to Memphis; on the Mississippi; and
  Lincoln; lies about; given chief command; refuses Presidential
  candidacy (1864); his generals; and Banks; on action of Navy in
  Vicksburg campaign; quoted; naval operations help; lands army at
  Bruinsburg; supplies for army; Port Gibson: at Grand Gulf; victories in
  rear of Vicksburg; siege of Vicksburg; surrender of Vicksburg; given
  supreme command; Chattanooga; and Red River Expedition; campaign (1864);
  Lieutenant-General; midwinter tour; summoned to Washington; and Stanton;
  and Swinton; force in Virginia; headquarters at Culpeper Court House;
  plans advance; Confederate cavalry raids against; elements of victory;
  Wilderness; Spotsylvania; Sheridan's raid; Sherman's advance; Cold
  Harbor; losses; Petersburg; approves Sherman's plans; Nashville; closes
  in on Lee; at meeting at City Point (Virginia); Lincoln approves terms
  to Lee; quoted; letter to Lee; surrender of Lee; terms of Lee's
  surrender; on assassination of Lincoln
Greeley, Horace, defection of
Grigsby, Colonel, Jackson and

Hagerstown (Maryland), Longstreet at
Halleck, General H. W., Federal commander in West; as a general; Grant
  and; after Shiloh; at Corinth; General-in-Chief; military adviser at
  Washington; reprimands Banks; censures Meade; orders Red River
  Expedition
Hampton Roads, Monitor and Merrimac in
Hancock, General W. S.; at Gettysburg; at Cold Harbor
Hanover Court House (Virginia), Cooke pursues Stuart from
Hardee, General W. J., evacuates Savannah
Harney, General W. S., commands Department of the West
Harper's Ferry, Federal forces abandon; Jackson at; strategic point;
  Virginia militia at; Johnston takes command at; Union forces on Potomac
  near; Johnston retires from; Banks at; troops gather at; Jackson and
Harriet Lane, U. S. S.
Harris, Colonel, Confederate leader
Harrisburg (Pennsylvania), Banks at
Harrison's Landing (Virginia), in Seven Days' battle; McClellan
  moves from
Hartford, Federal man-of-war, at Ship Island; New Orleans forts; in
  Vicksburg campaign; Mobile Bay
Haskins, Major, at Baton Rouge
Hatteras, Alabama sinks
Hatteras Island, taken
Haxall's Landing (Virginia), Sheridan at
Hayes, R. B., quoted
Hazen, General W. B., takes Fort McAllister
Helena (Arkansas), force joins Grant; Confederate attack repulsed
Henry, Fort, Johnston at; blocks Federal advance; attack on; surrender;
  Federal march from; Grant ordered to remain at
Hill, General A. P., at Beaver Dam Creek; at Gaines's Mill; Gettysburg
Hill, General D. H.
Hilton Head (South Carolina), fleet action off
Holly Springs (Mississippi), Grant at
Hood, General J. B., battle of Atlanta; number of troops; Nashville;
  attacks Schofield
Hooker, General Joseph, failure in Virginia; Second Bull Run; supersedes
  Burnside; discipline; as a general; on deserters; joins Grant; at
  Wauhatchie; Lookout Mountain; Chancellors ville; Washington interferes
  with; Lincoln's letter to; resignation
"Hornets' Nest"
Howard, General O. O., Gettysburg campaign; at Chancellorsville; commands
  Army of the Tennessee
Huger, General Benjamin, against Butler
Hunter, General David, and Washington interference; Sigel replaced by;
  succeeded by Sheridan; success at Staunton; and Early
Hurlbut, General S. A., at Shiloh

Imboden, General J. D., at Bull Run; describes Jackson; Gettysburg Indiana, Morgan's Raid Indians,
part in Civil War Ingraham, Commodore D. N., attacks blockade at Charleston "Iron Brigade,"
Meredith's Island Number Ten, Confederates hold; attack on; Pope's operations Itasca, Federal
gunboat Iuka (Mississippi), battle

Jackson, Governor Claiborne
Jackson, General T. J.; and negroes; personal characteristics; at Harper's
  Ferry; as disciplinarian; Johnston takes command from; commands First
  Shenandoah Brigade; at Martinsburg; at Falling Waters; guards while
  soldiers sleep; at Bull Run; origin of nickname "Stonewall"; Imboden
  describes; as a general; age; McClellan's failure against; maneuvering
  in Virginia; as strategist; campaign (1862-63); Lee and; Kernstown;
  Banks designs net for; forces; Valley campaign; McDowell; rout of Banks;
  summary of fortnight's work; Port Republic; pursuit of; planned attack
  on McClellan; attends Lee's conference; Seven Days; again pursued;
  Cedar Run; plans against Pope; marches north; slips away; at Manassas
  Junction; preparations for battle; Second Bull Run; in the Valley;
  against Hooker; wounded; death; Grant marches on; government interference
  with
Jackson (Mississippi), Grant wins at
Jackson, Camp (Missouri), Frost establishes; Lyon takes
Jackson, Fort, guards New Orleans
James Island, Fort Johnson on
Jefferson City (Missouri), Confederate recruiting at; Lyon at
Jetersville (Virginia), Grant goes to
Johnson, General Edward, commands near Staunton
Johnson, Fort, Charleston
Johnston, General A. S., commands in West; Logan's Cross Roads; Nashville;
  Pope cuts line; plans attack on Grant; Shiloh; death
Johnston, General J. E., commands at Richmond; at Harper's Ferry; Federal
  problem of attack; destroys stores at Harper's Ferry; eludes Patterson;
  joins Beauregard; Bull Run; immediate superior of Jackson; Davis and;
  retires to Culpeper; against McClellan; Seven Pines; wounded; Vicksburg;
  government mistake concerning; Dalton; Sherman against; Resaca; New Hope
  Church; evacuates Allatoona; at Kenesaw Mountain; Bentonville; terms of
  surrender

Kanawha campaign; see also West Virginia
Kansas, Southern sympathy in
Kearny, General Philip, Second Bull Run
Kearsarge, U. S. S., and Alabama
Kenesaw Mountain (Georgia), Johnston at; battle; Sherman watches Allatoona
  engagement from
Kenly, Colonel, at Front Royal
Kennon, Confederate naval officer
Kentucky, opinions divided in; neutral; Southern sympathy in; Confederates
  lose hold of eastern; Federals conquer; Bragg's invasion of; Morgan's
  raid; Grant's army in; Hood's objective
Kernstown (Virginia), battle
Keystone State, Confederate gunboats attack
Kingston (Georgia), Johnston retires to
Knoxville (Tennessee), Burnside occupies; Longstreet sent against;
  dependent upon Chattanooga; Bragg's connection cut; Grant's inspection of

Lacy, chaplain at Jackson's headquarters
Lamb, Colonel commands Fort Fisher
Lancaster (Ohio), Sherman at
Lebanon (Missouri), General Curtis at
Lebanon Springs, Jackson at
Lee, Fitzhugh, Stuart and
Lee, General R. E.; at San Antonio; military career; decision for South;
  resignation from U. S. Army; commands Virginia forces; Kanawha campaign;
  military adviser at Richmond; prevision; as a leader; age; McClellan
  against; maneuvering in Virginia; made Commander-in-Chief; in 1862-63;
  and Jackson; plans Valley campaign; appointed to command in eastern
  Virginia and North Carolina; plan against McClellan; Seven Days;
  McClellan foils; sends Jackson against Pope; entrains Longstreet for
  Gordonsville; as strategist; divides army; Second Bull Run; and
  Longstreet; invasion of Maryland; again divides army; at Antietam; at
  Culpeper; Fredericksburg; Burnside tries to surprise; Hooker against;
  quoted; Chancellorsville; defeat at Gettysburg; no part in Chattanooga
  strategy; plans counter-attack in Pennsylvania; Brandy Station;
  position before Gettysburg; Gettysburg; retreat; attempt to bring on
  Third Manassas; on importance of Wilmington; at Orange Court House;
  Wilderness; Spotsylvania; illness; prepares for Cold Harbor; at Cold
  Harbor; losses; siege; losses; Petersburg; insoluble problem; leaves
  Petersburg; Sailor's Creek; asks terms of Grant; surrenders; terms of
  surrender; farewell to army
Lexington (Kentucky) Grant inspects; Morgan's raid
Lexington (Missouri), Price takes
Lick Creek, Grant's forces at
Lincoln, Abraham, Inaugural; declares blockade; and Lee; calls for
  Missouri's quota of volunteers; general call for volunteers; and civil
  control; on evaders of service; reëlection; and Grant; as war statesman;
  birth; education; appearance; personal characteristics; appointments;
  quoted; and Vallandigham; Emancipation; foreign policy; Cabinet; as
  Commander-in-Chief; and McClellan; stories; letter to a bereaved mother;
  Second Inaugural quoted; military orders; halts McDowell; and Hooker;
  and Stanton; cipher letter to Grant; and Sherman; meets Union leaders;
  assassination; approves terms of surrender; bibliography
Little Sorrel, Jackson's horse
Logan, General J. A.; replaces McPherson at Atlanta; Ezra Church; Nashville
Logan's Cross Roads, Confederates at; Thomas's victory at
Longstreet, General James, entrains for Gordonsville; Jackson's march
  against Pope; Second Bull Run; obstructs Lee's plans; at Hagerstown;
  leaves Lee; reinforces Bragg; Wauhatchie; urges help for Vicksburg;
  Gettysburg; Wilderness; wounded
Lookout Mountain, see Chattanooga
Louisiana, Union forces in; Sherman in; secedes
Louisiana, Confederate ironclad; as mine ship
Louisville (Kentucky), Bragg at; Grant inspects
Louisville, at Fort Donelson
Lovell, General Mansfield, evacuates New Orleans
Lyon, General Nathaniel, commands at St. Louis; fight for Missouri; Frémont
  and; Wilson's Creek; killed

