Ken: "The Crown of Glory" (Vol. vii., p. 597.).--This work was properly rejected by Mr. Round
in his edition of Bishop Ken's Works; and in the preface he gives the reasons for so doing.
The absence of certain forms of expression was the chief test relied on. The book is so excellent,
and the prayers so warm and Ken-like, that its exclusion indicates much critical acumen on
the part of Mr. Round. Subsequently to the publication of this collection, it was ascertained
that the prayers and other parts of The Crown of Glory were taken from a book of Dean Brough,
of Gloucester, entitled Sacred Principles, which was published, I believe (I am writing at
a distance from my books), in 1661.

W. D----N.

Pennycomequick, adjoining Plymouth (Vol. viii., p. 8.).--In days gone by, when the boundaries
of the town were much more circumscribed than at the present day, a well-known old female (a
perfect character in her way) had long fixed her abode in a curiously built hut-like cot in
the locality in question; the rusticity of which, together with the obliging demeanour of its
tenants, had gradually induced the good folk of Plymouth to make holiday bouts to this retired
spot for the purpose of merry-making. As years rolled on, the shrewd old dame became a general
favourite with the pleasure-seekers; the increasing frequency of these pic-nics suggesting
to her an opportunity which might be turned to good account, viz. that of providing her visitors
with the cheap requisite, boiling water, for the brewing their sober afternoon's beverage,
at the low rate of a penny a head. Still later in the evening of life, shrugging herself closely
in her old scarlet cloak, which had served her well for better than half a century, she would,
with much apparent gusto, recount to her pleased auditory how many a time and often she had
made the "penny come quick," by the above-recited inexpensive vocation; until at length her
saying became a by-word in the neighbourhood, and universal consent fixed on the ever-happy
octogenarian's triplet as a fitting appellation for the then nameless and retired little nook,
but now thickly studded grounds, of Pennycomequick.

That equally simple occurrences have frequently given rise to the names of places, is shown
by other remarkable titles of localities not far distant from Pennycomequick, such as those
of "The Bold Venture," and of "No Place."

HENRY H. HELE.

Ashburton.

Your correspondent R. H. B. is informed that the name of this village is Welsh, viz. Pen y
cwn gwich, and signifies a village at the head of a valley.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Longevity (Vol. vii., pp. 358. 504. 607.).--May I be permitted a word with your correspondent
A. I., and at the same time assist MR. HUGHES in his laudable attempt "to convert him to the
faith?" To do this, it will not be necessary for me to search either in annual or parish registers,
or to decipher half-defaced inscriptions on marble monuments or humble headstones.

A lady is now living, or was two months ago, in Williamsburg, State of South Carolina, by the
name of Singleton, who is known to be in the one hundred and thirty-first year of her age:

    "Her mental faculties are still unimpaired, and she retains all her
    senses except that of sight, of which she was deprived at the advanced
    age of ninety-nine years by an attack of the measles. Her bodily energy
    exhibits no diminution for many years, she being still able to walk
    briskly about the room. She has outlived all her children: her oldest
    descendant living being a granddaughter, over sixty years old. The
    first granddaughter of this granddaughter, if now living, would be over
    sixteen years of age."

W. W.

Malta.

Arms: Battle-axe (Vol. vii., p. 407.).--The undermentioned families bore three battle-axes
{114} simply, their coats of arms varying only in metal and colour:

  Aynisworthe.
  Bainbrige.
  Batten.
  Daueys.
  Daverston.
  Gyves.
  Gibbes.
  Hall.
  Hakelett.
  Lewston.

Stephen Hoby (the earliest ancestor of the Bisham family of whom any record is preserved),
married ----, the daughter and heiress of ---- Bylmore, whose arms were--Gu. three halberds
(long-handled battle-axes) in pale ar. handled or.: hence, no doubt, the three battle-axes
in connexion with the Hoby or Hobby name at Bisham Church. William Hoby, of Leominster, the
tenth in descent from the above-mentioned Stephen, married Catherine, sole daughter and heiress
of John Forden alias Fordayne, by Gwentwynar, daughter and heiress of Sir Griffith Vahan alias
Vaughan, Knight Banneret; who was, as I am led to think, of Denbigh or its neighbourhood. I
shall be happy to find I have thrown any light upon the Query of A. C.

H. C. C.

Sir G. Browne, Bart. (Vol. vii., p. 528.)--Your correspondent NEWBURY is in error in styling
this George Browne a baronet, nor was he of West Stafford or Wickham. He was the sole son and
heir of Sir George Browne, Knight, of Wickhambreux, co. Kent, Caversham, co. Oxford, and Cowdray
in Midhurst, co. Sussex; which last estate devolved on this family by the will of William Fitzwilliam,
Earl of Southampton, the son of Lucy (daughter and co-heiress of John Nevill, Marquess of Montagu)
by her first husband, Sir Thomas Fitzwillam of Aldwark, co. York; which Lucy became the wife
of Sir Anthony Browne, who was knighted at the battle of Stoke, June 6, 1487, and succeeded
as above-mentioned to the Cowdray estate.

George Browne, who married Elizabeth or Eleanor, the daughter of Sir Richard Blount, was of
Wickhambreux, Caversham, and also of West Shefford in co. Berks; his name appears as thus in
the Visitation of this county anno 1623. Of the nineteen children, he had three sons whose
names are not given, and who died in the Royal cause during the civil wars: but as Richard,
the third son, is expressly mentioned, he certainly was not one of the three killed in the
service of King Charles I. Sir George Browne, second, but eldest surviving son, was made a
K.B. at the coronation of King Charles II.; and was celebrated by Pope in his "Windsor Forest."
He married Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Francis Englefield, the second baronet of Wootton Bassett,
co. Wilts, and died s. p. m. George, the eldest born, died an infant. Henry, the fourth son,
died unmarried March 19, 1668, and was buried at West Shefford; and John, the fifth son, was
of Caversham, and created a baronet May 19, 1665. He married the widow of ---- Bradley, and
was the ancestor of the baronets of Caversham, extinct in 1774. Three daughters, whose names
are not given, became nuns. Eleanor, another daughter, died unmarried, Nov. 27, 1662, and was
buried at West Shefford: and Elizabeth was the wife of John Yate of West Hanney, co. Berks;
and who died Jan. 26, 1671, before his wife.

H. C. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

BOOKS AND VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

J. D. Where is the sentence of which you ask an explanation to be found? Send the context,
or farther particulars.

C. E. F. and T. D. (Leeds). Your inquiry as to the best mode of constructing a glass chamber
for photographic purposes will be answered in our next.

MR. JOHN COOK has sent us a plan for taking cheaper pictures for stereoscopic purposes by means
of a common camera, and the substitution for the ordinary ground glass of a piece of plate
glass and a piece of paper, on which the outline of the figure is to be traced. When one sketch
is thus made, the camera is to be moved fifteen or sixteen inches to the right or left, and
a second drawing made in the same way. The plan is a very obvious one; and though adapted for
those who can draw and have an ordinary camera, it presents few advantages to photographers.

