CHARLES THE FIRST AND BARTOLOMEO DELLA NAVE'S COLLECTION OF PICTURES.

Among some miscellaneous papers in a volume of the Birch MSS. in the British Museum (Add. 4293.
fol. 5.) is preserved a curious document illustrative of the love of Charles I. for the fine
arts, and his anxiety to increase his collection of paintings, which, as it has escaped the
notice of Walpole and his annotators, I transcribe below.

     "CHARLES R.

    "Whereas wee vnderstand that an excellent Collection of paintings are
    to be solde in Venice, whiche are knowen by the name of Bartolomeo
    della Nave his Collection, Wee are desirous that our beloved servant
    Mr. William Pettye, should goe thither to make the bargayne for them,
    Wee our selues beinge resolved to goe a fourthe share in the buyinge of
    them (soe it exceed not the s[=o]me of Eight hundred powndes
    sterlinge), but that our Name be concealed in it. And if it shall
    please God that the same Collection be bought and come safelye hither,
    Then wee doe promise in the word of a Kinge, that they shall be divyded
    with all equallitye in this maner, vid^t. That, they shall be equallie
    divyded into fower partes by some men skillfull in paintinge, and then
    everie one interested in the shares, or some for them, shall throwe the
    Dice severallye, and whoesoever throwes moste, shall chose his share
    first, and soe in order everye one shall choose after first, as he
    castes most, and shal take their shares freelye to their owne vses, as
    they shall fall vnto them. In wittnes whereof wee haue sett our hande,
    this Eight daye of July, in the Tenth year of our Reigne, 1634."

The individual employed by Charles in this negotiation is the same who collected antiquities
in Greece for the Earl of Arundel. He was Vicar of Thorley, in the Isle of Wight, and is believed
to have been the uncle of the celebrated Sir William Petty, ancestor of the Marquis of Lansdowne.
It would be curious to learn the particulars of the "bargayne" made by him, and how the pictures
were disposed of after their arrival in England. Were the Warrant and Privy Seal books of the
period (still remaining among the Exchequer records) easily accessible, no doubt some information
on these points might be gained. That this collection of Bartolomeo della Nave was a celebrated
one, we have the testimony of Simon Vouet, in a letter to Ferrante Carlo, written from Venice,
August 14, 1627, in which he speaks of it as a "studio di bellissime pitture" (Bottari, Lettere
Pittoriche, vol. i. p. 335.: Milano, 1822): and that it came over to England, is asserted repeatedly
by Ridolfi, in his Vite degli illustri Pittori Veneti, the first edition of which appeared
at Venice in 1648. He mentions in this work several paintings which were in Della Nave's collection,
and which it may be interesting to refer to here, in case they are still to be traced in England.
In vol. i. p. 107. (I quote the Padua edition of 1835) is noticed a painting by Vincenzio Catena,
representing Judith carrying the head of Holofernes in one hand, and a sword in the other.
In the same volume, p. 182., a portrait of Zattina by Palma il Vecchio, holding in her hand
"una zampina dorata;" and at p. 263. several sacred subjects by Titian among which is specified
one of the Virgin surrounded by Saints, and another of the woman taken in adultery, with "multi
ritratti" by the same. Again, at p. 288., a head of a lady, supposed to be the mother of the
artist Nadelino da Murano, one of the most talented pupils of Titian; and at p. 328. a painting
by Andrea Schiavone, and some designs of Parmigiano. In vol. ii. p. 123. are mentioned two
paintings by Battista Zelotti from Ovid's Fables; and at p. 141. a picture of the good Samaritan,
by Jacopo da Ponte of Bassano. For these references to Bottari and Ridolfi, I own myself indebted
to Mr. William Carpenter, the keeper of the department of engravings in the British Museum;
and, probably, some of your readers may contribute further illustrations of Bartolomeo della
Nave's collection of pictures, and of the purchase of them by Charles I. I do not find this
purchase noticed in Vanderdort's list of Charles's pictures, published by Walpole in 1757.

F. MADDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Nonsuch Palace.--Our antiquarian friends may not be aware that traces of this old residence
of Elizabeth are still to be seen near Ewell. Traditions of it exist in the neighbourhood and
Hansetown, and Elizabethan coins are frequently dug up near the foundations of the "Banquetting
House," now inclosed in a cherry orchard not far from the avenue that joins Ewell to Cheam.
In a field at some distance is an old elm, which the villagers say once stood in the court-yard
of the kitchen. Near this is a deep trench, now filled with water, and hedged by bushes, which
is called "Diana's Dyke," now in the midst of a broad ploughed field, but formerly the site
of a statue of the Grecian goddess, which served as a fountain in an age when water-works were
found in every palace-garden, evincing in their subjects proofs of the revival of classical
learning. The elm above-mentioned measures thirty feet in the girth, immediately below the
parting of the branches. Its age is "frosty but kindly;" some two or three hundred summers
have passed over its old head, which, as yet, is unscathed by heavens fire, and unriven by
its bolt. The ground here swells unequally and artificially, and in an adjoining field, long
called, no one knew why, "the Conduit Field," pipes that brought the water to the palace have
lately been found, and may be seen intersected by the embankments of the Epsom railway.

The avenue itself is one of the old approaches to the palace, and was the scene of a skirmish
during the civil wars. {237}

Your readers may, perhaps, forget that this palace was the scene of the fatal disgrace of young
Essex.

GEORGE W. THORNBURY.

Ferrar and Benlowes.--The preface to that very singular poem, Theophila: Love's Sacrifice.
Lond. 1652, by Edw. Benlowes, contains a passage so closely resembling the inscription "in
the great parlour" at Little Gidding (Peckard's Life of Nic. Ferrar, p. 234), that the coincidence
cannot have been accidental, and, if it has not been elsewhere pointed out, may be worth record.
As the inscription, thought not dated, was set up during the life of Ferrar, who died in 1637,
the imitation was evidently not his. Only so much of the inscription is here given as is requisite
to show the parallel.

    "He who (by reproof of our errors, and remonstrance of that which is
    more perfect) seeks to make us better, is welcome as an Angel of God:
    and he who (by a cheerful participation of that which is good) confirms
    us in the same, is welcome as a Christian friend. But he who faults us
    in absence, for that which in presence he made show to approve of, doth
    by a double guilt of flattery and slander violate the bands both of
    friendship and charity."

Thus writes Benlowes:

    "He who shall contribute to the improvement of the author, either by a
    prudent detection of an errour, or a sober communication of an
    irrefragable truth, deserves the venerable esteem and welcome of a good
    Angel. And he who by a candid adherence unto, and a fruitful
    participation of, what is good and pious, confirms him therein, merits
    the honourable entertainment of a faithful friend: but he who shall
    traduce him in absence for what in presence he would seem to applaud,
    incurres the double guilt of flattery and slander: and he who wounds
    him with ill reading and misprision, does execution on him before
    judgement."

G. A. S.

Traditions from remote Periods through few Links (Vol. iii., p. 206.).--The communication of
H. J. B., showing how a subject of our beloved Queen Victoria can, with the intervention, as
a lawyer would say, of "three lives," connect herself with one who was a liegeman of that very
dissimilar monarch, Richard III., reminds me of a fact which I have long determined in some
way to commit to record. It is this: My father, who is only sixty-eight years old, is connected
in a similar mode with a person who had the plague during the prevalence of that awful scourge
in the metropolis in the year 1665, with the intervention of one life only. My grandfather,
John Lower of Alfriston, co. Sussex, distinctly remembered an aged woman, who died at the adjacent
village of Berwick at about ninety, and who had, in her fourth year, recovered from that frightful
disease. Should it please Providence to spare my father's life to see his eighty-third birthday,
the recollections of three persons will thus connect events separated by a period of two centuries.

I may take this opportunity of mentioning a fact which may interest such of the readers of
"NOTES AND QUERIES" as are students of natural history. My grandfather, who was born in the
year 1735 (being the son of Henry Lower, born on the night of the memorable storm of November,
1703), was among the very last of those who engaged in the sport of bustard-hunting in the
South Downs. This bird has been extinct, on at least the eastern portion of that range, for
upwards of a century. The sport was carried on by means of dogs which hunted down the poor
birds, and the sticks of the human (or inhuman?) pursuers did the rest. My ancestor was "in
at the death" of the last of the bustards, somewhere about 1747, being then twelve years old.

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

Longevity.--Some few years since I had occasion to search the parish registers of Evercreech
in Somersetshire, in one of which I met with the following astounding entry:--

    "1588. 20th Dec., Jane Britton of Evercriche, a Maidden, as she afirmed
    of the age of 200 years, was buried."

I can scarcely believe my own note, made however, with the register before me.

C. W. B.

The Thirty-nine Articles.--The following MS. note is in a copy which I have (4to. 1683):

     "Sept. 13. 1702.

    "Memor. That Mr. Thomas King did then Read publickly and distinctly, in
    a full Congregation during the Time of Divine Service, the nine and
    thirty Articles of Religion, and Declare his Assent and Consent, &c.,
    according as is Required in the Act of Uniformity, In the Parish Church
    of Ellesmere, In the Presence of Us, who had the said Articles printed
    before Us.

      E. KYNASTON.
      THO. EYTON.
      AR. LANGFORD.
      WILL. SWANWICK."

J. O. M.

Emendation of a Passage in Virgil.--Allow me to send you an emendation of the usual readings
of the 513th line of the first Georgic, which occurred to me many years ago, and which still
appears to me more satisfactory than any which have hitherto been suggested.

 "When the chariots have passed the barriers,
  And are now in the open course,--
  Lo, the charioteer vainly pulling the
  Reins, is carried along by the steeds."

The usual readings are "addunt in spatio," or "addunt in spatia," which are difficult to be
{238} explained or understood. The emendation which I suggest is, I think, simple, easy, and
intelligible; and I can imagine how the word "addunt" arose from the mistake of a transcriber,
by supposing that the MS. was written thus:--ac[s]vnt, with a long [s] closely following the
c, so as to resemble a d.

SCRIBLERUS.

Poems discovered among the Papers of Sir K. Digby.--In page 18. of your current volume is a
poem of which I am anxious to know the author: it is entitled the "Houre-Glasse." Among the
poems of Amaltheus I have discovered one so like it, that it appears to be almost a translation.
It is curious, and but little known, so that I trust you can find it a place in "NOTES AND
QUERIES."

 "HOROLOGIUM PULVERUM, TUMULUS ALCIPPI.

  Perspicuo in vitro pulvis qui dividit horas
    Dum vagus augustum sæpe recurrit iter,
  Olim erat Alcippus, qui Gallæ ut vidit ocellos,
    Arsit, et est cæco factus ab igne cinis.--
  Irrequiete cinis, miseros testabere amantes
    More tuo nulla posse quiete frui."

H. A. B.

Matter-of-fact Epitaph.--May I venture to ask a place for the following very matter-of-fact
epitaph in the English cemetery at Leghorn?

 "Amstelodamensis situs est hic Burr. Johannes,
    Quatuor è lustris qui modò cratus erat:
  Ditior anne auro, an meritis hoc nescio: tantas
    Cæca tamen Clotho non toleravit opes."

which may be thus freely rendered:

 "Here lie the remains of a Dutchman named Burr. John,
  Who baffled at twenty the skill of his surgeon;
  Whether greater his merits or wealth, I doubt which is,
  But Clotho the blind couldn't bear such great riches."

C. W. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

ANCIENT DANISH ITINERARY: PROL IN ANGLIAM.

An ancient scholiast on Adam of Bremen, "paululum Adamo ratione ætatis inferior," according
to his editor, Joachim Maderus, supplies us with a curious list of the stations in the voyages
from Ripa, in Denmark, to Acre, in the Holy Land. Adam of Bremen's Ecclesiastical History dates
toward the end of the eleventh century, about 1070. His text is as follows:--

    "Alterum (episcopatum) in Ripa; quæ civitas alio tangitur alveo, qui ab
    oceano influit, et per quem vela torquentur in Fresiam, vel in nostram
    Saxoniam, vel certe in Angliam."

The scholiast has this note:--

    "De Ripa in Flandriam ad Cuicfal velificari potest duobus diebus, et
    totidem noctibus; de Cuicfal ad Prol in Angliam duobus diebus et una
    nocte. Illud est ultimum caput Angliæ versus Austrum, et est
    processus illuc de Ripa angulosus inter Austrum et Occidentem. De Prol
    in Britanniam ad Sanctum Matthiam, uno die,--inde ad Far, juxta Sanctum
    Jacobum tribus noctibus. Inde Leskebone duobus diebus inter Austrum et
    Occidentem. De Leskebone ad Narvese tribus diebus et tribus noctibus,
    angulariter inter Orientem et Austrum. De Narvese ad Arruguen quatuor
    diebus et quatuor noctibus, angulariter inter Aquilonem et Orientem. De
    Arruguen ad Barzalun uno die, similiter inter Aquilonem et Orientem. De
    Barzalun ad Marsiliam uno die et una nocte, fere versus Orientem,
    declinando tamen parum ad plagam Australem. De Marsilia ad Mezein in
    Siciliam quatuor diebus et quatuor noctibus, angulariter inter Orientem
    et Austrum. De Mezein ad Accharon xiiii diebus et totidem noctibus,
    inter Orientem et Austrum, magis appropiando ad Austrum."

We may fairly consider that the stations marked in this itinerary are of great antiquity. "Prol
in Angliam" is, no doubt, Prawle Point, in Devonshire; a headland which must have been well
known to the Veneti long before the days of Adam of Bremen. Its mention here is one among the
many proofs of the early importance of this coast, the ancient "Littus Totonesium," the scene
of one of Marie's fabliaux, and of some curious passages in Layamon's Brut, which are not to
be found in the poem of Wace. I wish to ask,--

1. Is the word "Prol" Saxon or British, and what is its probable etymology?

2. Where was "Cuicfal in Flandriam," from whence the voyage was made to Prol?

RICHARD JOHN KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHIMING, TOLLING, AND PEAL-RINGING OF BELLS.

