Though the first despatch to Pan Tarkowski at Port Said had been worded with much care, it
nevertheless created such a powerful sensation that joy almost killed Nell's father. But Pan
Tarkowski, though he was an exceptionally self-controlled person, in the first moments after
the receipt of the despatch, knelt in prayer and began to beseech God that the intelligence
should not prove to be a delusion, a morbid chimera, bred from sorrow, longing, and pain. Why,
they had both toiled so hard to learn that the children were even alive! Mr. Rawlinson had
despatched to the Sudân whole caravans, while Pan Tarkowski, disguised as an Arab, had penetrated
with the greatest danger to his life as far as Khartûm, but all was futile. The men who could
have given any news died of smallpox, of starvation, or perished during the continual massacres,
and of the children there was not the slightest clue. In the end both fathers lost all hope
and lived only on recollections, in the deep conviction that here in life now nothing awaited
them and that only death would unite them with those dearest beings who were everything for
them in the world.

In the meantime unexpected joy, almost beyond their strength, fell upon them. But it was linked
with uncertainty and amazement. Neither could by any means comprehend in what manner news of
the children came from that part of Africa, that is, Mombasa. Pan Tarkowski supposed that they
might have been ransomed or stolen by some Arabian caravan which from the eastern coast ventured
into the interior for ivory and penetrated as far as the Nile. The words of the despatch, "Thanks
to boy," he explained in this manner: that Stas had notified the captain and the doctor by
letter where he with Nell could be found. Nevertheless, many things it was impossible to unravel.
On the other hand, Pan Tarkowski understood quite clearly that the information not only was
favorable, but very favorable, as otherwise the captain and the doctor would not have dared
to awaken hopes in them, and above all would not have summoned them to Mombasa.

The preparations for the journey were brief, and the second day after the receipt of the despatches
both engineers, with Nell's teacher, were on the deck of a great steamer of the "Peninsular
and Oriental Company," which was en route for India and on the way stopped at Aden, Mombasa,
and Zanzibar. At Aden awaited them the second despatch: "Children are with us. Well. Boy a
hero." After reading it Mr. Rawlinson walked about almost out of his senses from joy, and,
squeezing Pan Tarkowski's palm, he repeated: "You see, it was he who saved her. To him I owe
her life." Pan Tarkowski, not desiring to display too much weakness, answered only, setting
his teeth, "Yes! The boy acquitted himself bravely," but when he retired to the privacy of
his cabin he wept from happiness. At last the hour arrived when the children fell into the
embraces of their fathers. Mr. Rawlinson seized his recovered little treasure in his arms and
Pan Tarkowski long clasped his heroic boy to his bosom. Their misfortune disappeared as pass
away whirlwinds and storms of the desert. Their lives were filled anew with serenity and happiness;
longing and separation had augmented their joy. But the children were surprised that the hair
of their "papas" had whitened completely during the separation.

