She had spent many a drearier day in the convent than this, in the free sun and air, with the
feeling of liberty, and unbounded hopes founded on this first success. She told her beads diligently,
trusting that the tale of devotions for her husband's spirit would be equally made up in the
field as in the church, and intently all day were her ears and eyes on the alert. Once Lucette
visited her, to bring her a basin of porridge, and to tell her that all the world at the convent
was in confusion, that messengers had been sent out in all directions, and that M. le Chevalier
had ridden out himself in pursuit; but they should soon hear all about it, for Martin was pretending
to be amongst the busiest, and he would know how to turn them away. Again, much later in the
day, Martin came striding across the field, and had just reached her, as she sat in the hedgerow,
when the great dog who followed him pricked his ears, and a tramping and jingling was audible
in the distance in the lane. Eustacie held up her finger, her eyes dilating.

'It must be M. le Chevalier returning. Madame must wait a little longer. I must be at home,
or they may send out to seek me here, and that would be ruin. I will return as soon as it is
safe, if Madame will hide herself in the hedgerow.'

Into the hedgerow accordingly crept Eustacie, cowering close to a holly-tree at the very summit
of the bank, and led by a strange fascination to choose a spot where, unseen herself, she could
gaze down on the party who came clanking along the hollow road beneath. Nearer, nearer, they
came; and she shuddered with more of passion than of fear, as she beheld, not only her uncle
in his best well-preserved green suit, but Narcisse, muddy with riding, though in his court
braveries. Suddenly they came to a halt close beneath her! Was she detected? Ah! just below
was the spot where the road to the convent parted from the road to the farm; and, as Martin
had apprehended, they were stopping for him. The Chevalier ordered one of the armed men behind
him to ride up to the farm and summon Martin to speak with him; and then he and his son, while
waiting under the holly-bush, continued their conversation.

'So that is the state of things! A fine overthrow!' quoth Narcisse.

'Bah! not at all. She will soon be in our hands again. I have spoken with, or written to, every
governor of the cities she must pass through, and not one will abet the little runaway. At
the first barrier she is ours.'

'Et puis?'

'Oh, we shall have her mild as a sheep.' (Eustacie set her teeth.) 'Every one will be in the
same story, that her marriage was a nullity; she cannot choose but believe, and can only be
thankful that we overlook the escapade and rehabilitate her.'

'Thank you, my good uncle,' almost uttered his unseen auditor.

'Well! There is too much land down here to throw away; but the affair has become horribly complicated
and distasteful.'

'No such thing. All the easier. She can no longer play the spotless saint--get weak-minded
priests on her side--be all for strict convents. No, no; her time for that is past! Shut her
up with trustworthy persons from whom she will hear nothing from without, and she will understand
her case. The child? It will scarce be born alive, or at any rate she need not know whether
it is. Then, with no resource, no hope, what can she do but be too thankful for pardon, and
as glad to conceal the past as we could wish?'

Eustacie clenched her fist. Had a pistol been within her reach, the speaker's tenure of life
had been short! She was no chastened, self-restrained, forgiving saint, the poor little thing,
only a hot-tempered, generous, keenly-sensitive being, well-nigh a child in years and in impulses,
though with the instincts of a mother awakening within her, and of a mother who heard the life
of her unborn babe plotted against. She was absolutely forced to hold her lips together, to
repress the sobbing scream of fury that came to her throat; and the struggles with her gasping
breath, the surging of the blood in her ears, hindered her from hearing or seeing anything
for some seconds, though she kept her station. By the time her perceptions had cleared themselves,
Martin, cap in hand, was in the lane below, listening deferentially to the two gentlemen, who
were assuring him that inquiry had been made, and a guard carefully set at the fugitive could
have passed those, or be able to do so. She must certainly be hidden somewhere near home, and
Martin had better warn all his friends against hiding her, unless they wished to be hung up
on the thresholds of their burning farm-steads. Martin bowed, and thought the fellows would
know their own interest and Mademoiselle's better.

'Well,' said the Chevalier, 'we must begin without loss of time. My son has brought down a
set of fellows here, who are trained to ferret out heretics. Not a runaway weasel cold escape
them! We will set them on as soon as ever they have taken a bit of supper up there at the Chateau;
and do you come up with us just to show them the way across to Leonard's. That's no unlikely
place for her to lurk in, as you said this morning, good fellow.'

It was the most remote farm from that of Martin, and Eustacie felt how great were his services,
even while she flushed with anger to hear him speaking of her as Mademoiselle. He was promising
to follow immediately to the castle, to meet ces Messieurs there almost as soon as they could
arrive, but excusing himself from accompanying them, by the need of driving home the big bull,
whom no one else could manage.

They consented, and rode on. Martin watched them out of sight, then sprang up by some stepping-stones
in the bank, a little below where Eustacie sat, and came crackling through the boughs to where
she was crouching down, with fierce glittering eyes and panting breath, like a wild animal
ready to spring.

'Madame has heard,' said Martin, under his breath.

'If I have heard! Oh that I were a man, to slay them where they stood! Martin, Martin! you
will not betray me. Some day WE will reward you.'

'Madame need not have said THAT to me,' said Martin, rather hurt. 'I am only thinking what
she can do. Alas! I fear that she must remain in this covert till it is dark, for these men's
eyes are all on the alert. At dark, I or Lucette will come and find a shelter for her for the
night.'

Long, long, then, did Eustacie sit, muffled in her gray cloak, shrinking together to shelter
herself from the sunset chill of early spring, but shuddering more with horror than with cold
as the cruel cold-blooded words she had heard recurred to her, and feeling as if she were fast
within a net, every outlet guarded against her, and search everywhere; yet still with the indomitable
determination to dare and suffer to the utmost ere that which was dearer than her own life
should come into peril from her enemies.

The twilight closed in, the stars came out, sounds of life died away, and still she sat on,
becoming almost torpid in the cold darkness, until at length she heard the low call of Lucette,
'MADAME! AH!la pauvre Madame.' She started up, so stiff that she could hardly more, and only
guided by the voice to feel her way through the hedgerow in the right direction. Another moment,
and Lucette's warn arms had received her; and she was guided, scarce knowing how or where,
in cautious silence to the farmyard, and into the house, where a most welcome sight, a huge
fire, blazed cheerfully on the hearth, and Martin himself held open the door for her. The other
occupants of the kitchen were the sleeping child in its wooden cradle, some cocks and hens
upon the rafters, and a big sheep-dog before the fire.

The warmth, and the chicken that Lucette had killed and dressed, brought the colour back to
the exhausted wanderer's cheek, and enabled her again to hold council for her safety. It was
plain, as Martin had found in conversation with the men-at-arms, that precautions had been
taken against her escaping in any of the directions where she might hope to have reached friends.
Alone she could not go, and any escort sufficient to protect her would assuredly be stopped
at the first town; besides which, collecting it in secret was impossible under present circumstances,
and it would be sure to be at once overtaken and demolished by the Chevalier Narcisse's well-armed
followers. Martin, therefore, saw no alternative but for her to lurk about in such hiding-places
as her faithful vassals could afford her, until the search should blow over, and the vigilance
of her uncle and cousin relax. Hope, the high-spirited hope of early youth, looked beyond to
indefinite but infinite possibility. Anything was better than the shame and horror of yielding,
and Eustacie trusted herself with all her heart for the present, fancying, she knew not what,
the future.

Indeed, the Vendean fidelity has often been tested, and she made full proof of it among the
lanes, copses, and homesteads of her own broad lands. The whole country was a network of deep
lanes, sunk between impenetrable hedgerows, inclosing small fields, orchards, and thickets,
and gently undulating in low hills and shallow valleys, interspersed with tall wasp-waisted
windmills airily waving their arms on the top of lofty masts. It was partitioned into small
farms, inhabited by a simple-hearted peasantry, religious and diligent, with a fair amount
of rural wealth and comfort. Their love for their lords was loyally warm, and Eustacie monopolized
it, from their detestation of her uncle's exactions; they would risk any of the savage punishments
with which they were threatened for concealing her; and as one by one it was needful to take
them into the secret, so as to disarm suspicion, and she was passed from one farm to another,
each proved his faithful attachment, and though himself repaid by her thankful smile and confiding
manner.

The Chevalier and his son searched vigorously. On the slightest suspicion, they came down to
the farm, closed up the outlets, threatened the owners, turned out the house, and the very
place they had last searched would become her quarters on the next night! Messages always had
warned her in time. Intelligence was obtained by Martin, who contrived to remain a confidential
agent, and warnings were dispatched to her by many a strange messenger--by little children,
by old women, or even by the village innocent.

The most alarming days were those when she was not the avowed object of the chase, but when
the pursuit of game rendered the coverts in the woods and fields unsafe, and the hounds might
lead to her discovery. On one of these occasions Martin locked her up in the great hayloft
of the convent, where she could actually hear the chants in the chapel, and distinguish the
chatter of the lay-sisters in the yard. Another time, in conjunction with the sacristan, he
bestowed her in the great seigneurial tribune (or squire's pew) in the village church, a tall
carved box, where she was completely hidden; and the only time when she had failed to obtain
warning beforehand, she stood kneading bread at a tub in Martin's cottage, while the hunt passed
by, and a man-at-arms looked in and questioned the master on the last traces of the runaway.

It was seldom possible to see Mere Perrine, who was carefully watched, under the conviction
that she must know where her nursling was; but one evening Veronique ventured up to Martin's
farm, trusting to tidings that the gentlemen had been Eustacie's only secure harbour; and when,
in a bright evening gleam of the setting sun from beneath the clouds, Veronique came in sight
of her Lady, the Queen's favourite, it was to see her leading by a string a little shaggy cow,
with a bell round its neck, her gray cloak huddled round her, though dank with wet, a long
lock of black hair streaming over her brow, her garments clinging with damp, her bare ankles
scratched with thorns, her heavy SABOTS covered with mire, her cheeks pale with cold and wet.

The contrast overwhelmed poor Veronique. She dropped on her knees, sobbing as if her heart
would break, and declaring that this was what the Abbess had feared; her Lady was fast killing
herself.

'Hush! Veronique,' said Eustacie; 'that is all folly. I am wet and weary now, but oh! if you
knew how much sweeter to me life is now than it was, shut up down there, with my fears. See,'
and she held up a bunch of purple pasque-flowers and wood-sorrel, 'this is what I found in
the wood, growing out of a rugged old dead root; and just by, sheltered by the threefold leaves
of the alleluia-flower, was a bird's nest, the mother-bird on her eggs, watching me with the
wise black eye that saw I would not hurt her. And it brought back the words I had heard long
ago, of the good God caring for the sparrows; and I knew He would care the more for me and
mine, because I have not where to lay my head.'

'Alas!' sobbed Veronique, 'now she is getting to be a saint outright. She will be sure to die!
Ah, Madame--dear Madame! do but listen to me. If you did but know how Madame de Bellaise is
afflicting herself on your account! She sent for me--ah! do not be angry, dear Lady?'

'I wish to hear nothing about her,' said Eustacie.

'Nay, listen, de grace--one moment, Madame! She has wept, she has feared for you, all the lay-sisters
say so. She takes no pleasure in hawking, nor in visiting; and she did not eat more than six
of Soeur Bernardine's best conserves. She does nothing but watch for tidings of Madame. And
she sent for me, as I told you, and conjured me, if I knew where you were, or had any means
of finding out, to implore you to trust to her. She will swear on all the relics in the chapel
never to give a hint to Messieurs les Chevaliers if only you would trust her, and not slay
yourself with all this dreadful wandering.'

'Never!' said Eustacie; 'she said too much!'

'Ah! but she declares that, had she known the truth, she never would have said that. Ah, yes,
Madame, the Abbess is good!' And Veronique, holding her mistress's cloak to secure a hearing,
detailed the Abbess' plan for lodging her niece in secret apartments within the thickness of
the convent walls, where Mere Perrine could be with her, and every sacred pledge should be
given that could remove her fears.

'And could they make me believe them, so that the doubt and dread would not kill me in themselves?'
said Eustacie.

'But it is death--certain death, as it is. Oh, if Madame would hear reason!--but she is headstrong!
She will grieve when it is too late!'

'Listen, Veronique. I have a far better plan. The sacristan has a sister who weaves red handkerchiefs
at Chollet. She will receive me, and keep me as long as there is need. Martin is to take me
in his cart when he carries the hay to the garrison. I shall be well hidden, and within reach
of your mother. And then, when my son is once come--then all will be well! The peasants will
rise in behalf of their young Lord, though not for a poor helpless woman. No one will dare
to dispute his claim, when I have appealed to the King; and then, Veronique, you shall come
back to me, and all will be well!'

Veronique only began to wail aloud at her mistress' obstinacy. Martin came up, and rudely silenced
her, and said afterwards to his wife, 'Have a care! That girl has--I verily believe--betrayed
her Lady once; and if she do not do so again, from pure pity and faintness of heart, I shall
be much surprised.'

CHAPTER XVII. THE GHOSTS OF THE TEMPLARS

 'Tis said, as through the aisles they passed,
 They heard strange voices on the blast,
 And through the cloister galleries small,
 Which at mid-height thread the chancel wall,
 Loud sobs and laughter louder ran,
 And voices unlike the voice of man,
 As if the fiends kept holiday.
                    Scott, LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL

'Ill news, Martin, I see by your look!' cried Eustacie, starting to her feet from the heap
of straw on which she was sitting in his cowhouse, one early April day, about seven weeks since
her evasion from the convent.

'Not so, I hope, Madame, but I do not feel at ease. Monsieur has not sent for me, nor told
me his plans for the morrow, and I much doubt me whether that bode not a search here. Now I
see a plan, provided Madame would trust herself to a Huguenot.'

'They would guard me for my husband's sake.'

'And could Madame walk half a league, as far as the Grange du Temple? There live Matthieu Rotrou
and his wife, who have, they say, baffled a hundred times the gendarmes who sought their ministers.
No one ever found a pastor, they say, when Rotrou had been of the congregation; and if they
can do so much for an old preacher with a long tongue, surely they can for a sweet young lady;
and if they could shelter her just for tomorrow, till the suspicion is over, then would I come
for Madame with my cart, and carry her into Chollet among the trusses of hay, as we had fixed.'

Eustacie was already tying her cloak, and asking for Lucette; but she was grieved to hear that
Martin had sent her to vespers to disarm suspicion, and moreover that he meant not to tell
her of his new device. 'The creature is honest enough,' he said, 'but the way to be safe with
women is not to let them know.'

He cut short all messages and expressions of gratitude, and leading Eustacie to a small stream,
he made her creep along its course, with her feet in the water so as to be sheltered by the
boughs that hung over the banks, while he used his ling strides to enable him to double back
and enter into conversation with passers-by, quite of the track of the Grange du Temple, but
always telling her where he should join her again, and leaving with her the great dog, whom
she had come to regard as a friend and protector. Leaving the brook, he conducted her beneath
hedges and by lonely woodland paths beyond the confines of her own property, to a secluded
valley, so shut in by wooded hills that she had not been aware of its existence. Through an
extensive orchard, she at length, when nearly spent with the walk, beheld the cluster of stone
buildings, substantial as the erections of religious orders were wont to be.

Martin found a seat for her, where she might wait while he went on alone to the house, and
presently returned with both the good people of the farm. They were more offhand and less deferential
than were her own people, but were full of kindliness. They were middle-aged folk, most neatly
clad, and with a grave, thoughtful look about them, as if life were a much heavier charge to
them than to their light-hearted neighbours.

'A fair day to you, Madame,' said the farmer, doffing his wide-flapped hat. 'I am glad to serve
a sufferer for the truth's sake.'

'My husband was,' faltered Eustacie.

'AH! la pauvre,' cried the good woman, pressing forward as she saw how faint, heated, and exhausted
was the wanderer. 'Come in, ma pauvrette. Only a bride at the Bartholomew! Alas! There, lean
on me, my dear.'

To be tutoyee by the Fermiere Rotrou was a shock; yet the kind manner was comfortable, and
Eustacie suffered herself to be led into the farm-house, where, as the dame observed, she need
not fear chance-comers, for they lived much to themselves, and no one would be about till their
boy Robinet came in with the cows. She might rest and eat there in security, and after that
they would find a hiding-place for her--safe as the horns of the altar--for a night or two;
only for two nights at most.

'Nor do I ask more,' said Eustacie. 'Then Martin will come for me.'

'Ah, I or Blaise, or whichever of us can do it with least suspicion.'

'She shall meet you here,' added Rotrou.

'All right, good man; I understand; it is best I should not know where you hide her. Those
rogues have tricks that make it as well to know nothing. Farewell, Madame, I commend you to
all the saints till I come for you on Monday morning.'

Eustacie gave him her hand to kiss, and tried to thank him, but somehow her heart sank, and
she felt more lonely than ever, when entirely cast loose among these absolute strangers, than
amongst her own vassals. Even the farm-kitchen, large, stone-built, and scrupulously clean,
seemed strange and dreary after the little, smoky, earth-built living-rooms in which her peasantry
were content to live, and she never had seemed to herself so completely desolate; but all the
time she was so wearied out with her long and painful walk, that she had no sooner taken some
food than she began to doze in her chair.

'Father,' said the good wife, 'we had better take la pauvrette to her rest at once.'

'Ah! must I go any farther?' sighed Eustacie.

'It is but a few fields beyond the yard, ma petite,' said the good woman consolingly; 'and
it will be safer to take you there ere we need a light.'

The sun had just set on a beautiful evening of a spring that happily for Eustacie had been
unusually warm and mild, when they set forth, the dame having loaded her husband with a roll
of bedding, and herself taking a pitcher of mild and a loaf of bread, whilst Eustacie, as usual,
carried her own small parcel of clothes and jewels. The way was certainly not long to any one
less exhausted than she; it was along a couple of fields, and then through a piece of thicket,
where Rotrou held back the boughs and his wife almost dragged her on with kind encouraging
words, till they came up to a stone ivy-covered wall, and coasting along it to a tower, evidently
a staircase turret. Here Rotrou, holding aside an enormous bush of ivy, showed the foot of
a winding staircase, and his wife assured her that she would not have far to climb.

She knew where she was now. She had heard of the old Refectory of the Knights Templars. Partly
demolished by the hatred of the people upon the abolition of the Order, it had ever since lain
waste, and had become the centre of all the ghostly traditions of the country; the locality
of all the most horrid tales of REVENANTS told under the breath at Dame Perrine's hearth or
at recreation hour at Bellaise. Her courage was not proof against spiritual terrors. She panted
and leant against the wall, as she faintly exclaimed, 'The Temple--there--and alone!'

'Nay, Lady, methought as Monsieur votre mari knew the true light, you would fear no vain terror
nor power of darkness.'

Should these peasants--these villeins--be bold, and see the descendant of the 'bravest of knights,'
the daughter of the house of Ribaumont, afraid? She rallied herself, and replied manfully,
'I FEAR not, no!' but then, womanfully, 'But it is the Temple! It is haunted! Tell me what
I must expect.'

'I tell you truly, Madame,' said Rotrou; 'none whom I have sheltered here have seen aught.
On the faith of a Christian, no evil spirit--no ghost--has ever alarmed them; but they were
fortified by prayer and psalm.'

'I do pray! I have a psalm-book,' said Eustacie, and she added to herself, 'No, they shall
never see that I fear. After all, REVENANTS can do nothing worse than scare one; they cannot
touch one; the saints and angels will not let them--and my uncle would do much worse.'

But to climb those winding stairs, and resign herself to be left alone with the Templars for
the night, was by far the severest trial that had yet befallen the poor young fugitive. As
her tire feet dragged up the crumbling steps, her memory reverted to the many tales of the
sounds heard by night within those walls--church chants turning into diabolical songs, and
bewildered travelers into thickets and morasses, where they had been found in the morning,
shuddering as they told of a huge white monk, with clanking weapons, and a burning cross of
fire printed on his shoulder and breast, who stood on the walls and hurled a shrieking babe
into the abyss. Were such spectacles awaiting her? Must she bear them? And could her endurance
hold out? Our Lady be her aid, and spare her in her need!

At the top of the stairs she found Rotrou's hand, ready to help her out on a stone floor, quite
dark, but thickly covered, as she felt and smelt, with trusses of hay, between which a glimmering
light showed a narrow passage. A few steps, guided by Rotrou's hand, brought her out into light
again, and she found herself in a large chamber, with the stone floor broken away in some places,
and with a circular window, thickly veiled with ivy, but still admitting a good deal of evening
light.

It was in fact a chamber over the vaulted refectory of the knights. The walls and vaults still
standing in their massive solidity, must have tempted some peasant, or mayhap some adventurer,
rudely to cover in the roof (which had of course been stripped of its leading), and thus in
the unsuspected space to secure a hiding-place, often for less innocent commodities than the
salt, which the iniquitous and oppressive gabelle had always led the French peasant to smuggle,
ever since the days of the first Valois. The room had a certain appearance of comfort; there
was a partition across it, a hearth with some remains of wood-ashes, a shelf, holding a plate,
cup, lamp, and a few other necessaries; and altogether the aspect of the place was so unlike
what Eustacie had expected, that she almost forgot the Templar as she saw the dame begin to
arrange a comfortable-looking couch for her wearied limbs. Yet she felt very unwilling to let
them depart, and even ventured on faltering out the inquiry whether the good woman could not
stay with her,--she would reward her largely.

'It is for the love of Heaven, Madame, not for gain,' said Nanon Rotrou, rather stiffly. 'If
you were ill, or needed me, all must then give way; but for me to be absent this evening would
soon be reported around the village down there, for there are many who would find occasion
against us.' But, by way of consolation, they gave her a whistle, and showed her that the window
of their cottage was much nearer to a loophole-slit looking towards the east than she had fancied.
The whistle perpetrated a mist unearthly screech, a good deal like that of an owl, but more
discordant, and Nanon assured her that the sound would assuredly break her slumbers, and bring
her in a few minutes at any moment of need. In fact, the noise was so like the best authenticated
accounts of the shrieks indulged in by the spirits of the Temple, that Eustacie had wit enough
to suspect that it might be the foundation of some of the stories; and with that solace to
her alarms, she endured the departure of her hosts, Nanon promising a visit in the early morning.

The poor child was too weary to indulge in many terrors, the beneficent torpor of excessive
fatigue was upon her, happily bringing slumberous oblivion instead of feverish restlessness.
She strove to repeat her accustomed orisons; but sleep was too strong for her, and she was
soon lying dreamlessly upon the clean homely couch prepared for her.

When she awoke, it was with a start. The moon was shining in through the circular window, making
strange white shapes on the floor, all quivering with the shadows of the ivy sprays. It looked
strange and eerie enough at the moment, but she understood it the next, and would have been
reassured if she had not become aware that there was a low sound, a tramp, tramp, below her.
'Gracious saints! The Templar! Have mercy on me! Oh! I was too sleepy to pray! Guard me from
being driven wild by fright!' She sat upright, with wide-spread eyes, and, finding that she
herself was in the moonlight, through some opening in the roof, she took refuge in the darkest
corner, though aware as she crouched there, that if this were indeed the Templar, concealment
would be vain, and remembering suddenly that she was out of reach of the loophole-window.

And therewith there was a tired sound in the tread, as if the Templar found his weird a very
length one; then a long heavy breath, with something so essentially human in its sound that
the fluttering heart beat more steadily. If reason told her that the living were more perilous
to her than the dead, yet feeling infinitely preferred them! It might be Nanon Rotrou after
all; then how foolish to be crouching there in a fright! It was rustling through the hay. No-no
Nanon; it is a male figure, it has a long cloak on. Ah! it is in the moonlight-silver hair--silver
beard. The Templar! Fascinated with dismay, yet calling to mind that no ghost has power unless
addressed, she sat still, crossing herself in silence, but unable to call to mind any prayer
or invocation save a continuous 'Ave Mary,' and trying to restrain her gasping breath, lest,
if he were not the Templar after all, he might discover her presence.

He moved about, took off his cloak, laid it down near the hay, then his cap, not a helmet after
all, and there was no fiery cross.

He was in the gloom again, and she heard him moving much as though he were pulling down the
hay to form a bed. Did ghosts ever do anything so sensible? If he were an embodied spirit,
would it be possible to creep past him and escape while he lay asleep? She was almost becoming
familiarized with the presence, and the supernatural terror was passing off into a consideration
of resources, when, behold, he was beginning to sing. To sing was the very way the ghosts began
ere they came to their devilish outcries. 'Our Lady keep it from bringing frenzy. But hark!
hark!' It was not one of the chants, it was a tune and words heard in older times of her life;
it was the evening hymn, that the little husband and wife had been wont to sing to the Baron
in the Chateau de Leurre--Marot's version of the 4th Psalm.

                     'Plus de joie m'est donnee
                      Par ce moyen, O Dieu Tres-Haut,
                      Que n'ont ceux qui ont grand annee
                      De froment et bonne vinee,
                      D'huile et tout ce qu'il leur faut.'

If it had indeed been the ghostly chant, perhaps Eustacie would not have been able to help
joining it. As it was, the familiar home words irresistibly impelled her to mingle her voice,
scarce knowing what she did, in the verse--

                    'Si qu'en paix et surete bonne
                     Coucherai et reposerai;
                     Car, Seigneur, ta bonte tout ordonne
                     Et elle seule espoir me donne
                     Que sur et seul regnant serai.'

The hymn died away in its low cadence, and then, ere Eustacie had had time to think of the
consequences of thus raising her voice, the new-comer demanded:

'Is there then another wanderer here?'

'Ah! sir, pardon me!' she exclaimed. 'I will not long importune you, but only till morning
light--only till the Fermiere Rotrou comes.'

'If Matthieu and Anne Rotrou placed you here, then all is well,' replied the stranger. 'Fear
not, daughter, but tell me. Are you one of my scattered flock, or one whose parents are known
to me?' Then, as she hesitated, 'I am Isaac Gardon--escaped, alas! alone, from the slaughter
of the Barthelemy.'

'Master Gardon!' cried Eustacie. 'Oh, I know! O sir, my husband loved and honoured you.'

'Your husband?'

'Yes, sir, le Baron de Ribaumont.'

'That fair and godly youth! My dear old patron's son! You--you! But--' with a shade of doubt,
almost of dismay, 'the boy was wedded--wedded to the heiress---'

'Yes, yes, I am that unhappy one! We were to have fled together on that dreadful night. He
came to meet me to the Louvre--to his doom!' she gasped out, nearer to tears than she had ever
been since that time, such a novelty was it to her to hear Berenger spoken of in kind or tender
terms; and in her warmth of feeling, she came out of her corner, and held our her hand to him.

'Alas! poor thing!' said the minister, compassionately, 'Heaven has tried you sorely. Had I
known of your presence here, I would not have entered; but I have been absent long, and stole
into my lair here without disturbing the good people below. Forgive the intrusion, Madame.'

The minister replied warmly that surely persecution was a brotherhood, even had she not been
the window of one he had loved and lamented.

'Ah! sir, it does me good to hear you say so.'

And therewith Eustacie remembered the hospitalities of her loft. She perceived by the tones
of the old man's voice that he was tired, and probably fasting, and she felt about for the
milk and bread with which she had been supplied. It was a most welcome refreshment, though
he only partook sparingly; and while he ate, the two, so strangely met, came to a fuller knowledge
of one another's circumstances.

Master Isaac Gardon had, it appeared, been residing at Paris, in the house of the watchmaker
whose daughter had been newly married to his son; but on the fatal eve of St. Bartholomew,
he had been sent for to pray with a sick person in another quarter of the city. The Catholic
friends of the invalid were humane, and when the horrors began, not only concealed their kinsman,
but almost forcibly shut up the minister in the same cellar with him. And thus, most reluctantly,
had he been spared from the fate that overtook his son and daughter-in-law. A lone and well-night
broken-hearted man, he had been smuggled out of the city, and had since that time been wandering
from one to another of the many scattered settlements of Huguenots in the northern part of
France, who, being left pastorless, welcomed visits from the minister of their religion, and
passed him on from one place to another, as his stay in each began to be suspected by the authorities.
He was now on his way along the west side of France, with no fixed purpose, except so far as,
since Heaven had spared his life when all that made it dear had been taken from him, he resigned
himself to believe that there was yet some duty left for him to fulfil.

Meantime the old man was wearied out; and after due courtesies had passed between him and the
lady in the dark, he prayed long and fervently, as Eustacie could judge from the intensity
of the low murmurs she heard; and then she heard him, with a heavy irrepressible sigh, lie
down on the couch of hay he had already prepared for himself, and soon his regular breathings
announced his sound slumbers. She was already on the bed she had so precipitately quitted,
and not a thought more did she give to the Templars, living or dead, even though she heard
an extraordinary snapping and hissing, and in the dawn of the morning saw a white weird thing,
like a huge moth, flit in through the circular window, take up its station on a beam above
the hay, and look down with the brightest, roundest eyes she had ever beheld. Let owls and
bats come where they would, she was happier than she had been for months. Compassion for herself
was plentiful enough, but to have heard Berenger spoken of with love and admiration seemed
to quiet the worst ache of her lonely heart.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE MOONBEAM

     She wandered east, she wandered west,
       She wandered out and in;
     And at last into the very swine's stythe
       The queen brought forth a son.--Fause Foodrage

The morrow was Sunday, and in the old refectory, in the late afternoon, a few Huguenots, warned
by messages from the farm, met to profit by one of their scanty secret opportunities for public
worship. The hum of the prayer, and discourse of the pastor, rose up through the broken vaulting
to Eustacie, still lying on her bed; for she had been much shaken by the fatigues of the day
and alarm of the night, and bitterly grieved, too, by a message which Nanon conveyed to her,
that poor Martin was in no state to come for her in the next day; but he and his wife having
been seized upon by Narcisse and his men, and so savagely beaten in order to force from them
a confession of her hiding-place, that both were lying helpless on their bed; and could only
send an entreaty by the trustworthy fool, that Rotrou would find means of conveying Madame
into Chollet in some cart of hay or corn, in which she could be taken past the barriers.

But this was not to be. Good Nanon had sacrificed the sermon to creep up to Eustacie, and when
the congregation were dispersing in the dusk, she stole down the stairs to her husband; and
a few seconds after he was hurrying as fast as detours would allow him to Blaise's farm. An
hour and a half later, Dame Perrine, closely blindfolded for the last mile, was dragged up
the spiral staircase, and ere the bandage was removed heard Eustacie's voice, with a certain
cheeriness, say, 'Oh! nurse; my son will soon come!'

The full moon gave her light, and the woman durst not have any other, save from the wood-fire
that Nanon had cautiously lighted and screened. The moonshine was still supreme, when some
time later a certain ominous silence and half-whisper between the two women at the hearth made
Eustacie, with a low cry of terror, exclaim, 'Nurse, nurse, what means this? Oh! He lives!
I know he lives! Perrine, I command you tell me!'

'Living! Oh, yes, my love, my Lady,' answered Perrine, returning towards her; 'fair and perfect
as the day. Be not disquieted for a moment.'

'I will--I will disquiet myself,' panted Eustacie, 'unless you tell me what is amiss.'

'Nothing amiss,' said Nanon, gruffly. 'Madame will give thanks for this fair gift of a daughter.'

It must be owned the words felt chill. She had never thought of this! It was as if the being
for whom she had dared and suffered so much, in the trust that he would be Berenger's representative
and avenger, had failed her and disappointed her. No defender, no paladin, no so to be proud
of! Her heart and courage sank down in her weakness as they had never done before; and, without
speaking, she turned her head away towards the darkness, feeling as if had been for nothing,
and she might as well sink away in her exhaustion. Mere Perrine was more angry with Nanon than
conscious of her Lady's weakness. 'Woman, you speak as if you knew not the blow to this family,
and to all who hoped for better days. What, that my Lady, the heiress, who ought to be in a
bed of state, with velvet curtains, lace pillows, gold caudle-cups, should be here in a vile
ruin, among owls and bats, like any beggar, and all for the sake, not of a young Lord to raise
up the family, but of a miserable little girl! Had I known how it would turn out, I had never
meddled in this mad scheme.'

Before Nanon could express her indignation, Eustacie had turned her head opened her eyes, and
called out, 'Miserable! Oh! what do you mean? Oh, it is true, Nanon? is it well with her?

'As well as heart could wish,' answered Nanon, cheerily. 'Small, but a perfect little piece
of sugar. There, Lady, she shall speak for herself.'

And as Nanon laid the babe on the young mother's bosom, the thrilling touch at once put an
end to all the repinings of the heiress, and awoke far other instincts.

'My child! my little one, my poor little orphan--all cruel to her! Oh, no welcome even from
thy mother! Babe, babe, pardon me, I will make it up to thee; indeed I will! Oh! let me see
her! Do not take her away, dear good woman, only hold her in the moonlight!'

The full rays of the moon, shining through the gable window, streamed down very near where
Eustacie lay, and by a slight movement Dame Rotrou was able to render the little face as distinctly
visible to her as if it had been daylight, save that the blanching light was somewhat embellishing
to the new-born complexion, and increased that curious resemblance so often borne for the first
few hours of life to the future self. Eustacie's cry at once was, 'Himself, himself--his very
face! Let me have her, my own moonbeam--his child--my joy!'

The tears, so long denied, rushed down like summer rain as she clasped the child in her arms.
Dame Perrine wandered to and fro, like one beside herself, not only at her Lady's wretched
accommodations, but at the ill omens of the moonlight illumination, of the owls who snapped
and hissed incessantly over the hay, and above all the tears over the babe's face. She tried
to remonstrate with Eustacie, but was answered only, 'Let me weep! Oh, let me weep! It eases
my heart! It cannot hurt my little one! She cannot weep for her father herself, so I must weep
for her.'

The weeping was gentle, not violent; and Dame Rotrou thought it did good rather than harm.
She was chiefly anxious to be quit of Perrine, who, however faithful to the Lady of Ribaumont,
must not be trusted to learn the way to this Huguenot asylum, and must be escorted back by
Rotrou ere peep of dawn. The old woman knew that her own absence from home would be suspicious,
and with many grumblings submitted; but first she took the child from Eustacie's reluctant
arms, promising to restore her in a few moments, after finishing dressing her in the lace-edged
swaddling bands so carefully preserved ever since Eustacie's own baby hood. In these moments
she had taken them all by surprise by, without asking any questions, sprinkling the babe with
water, and baptizing her by the hereditary name of Berangere, the feminine of the only name
Eustacie had always declared her son should bear. Such baptisms were not unfrequently performed
by French nurses, but Eustacie exclaimed with a sound half dismay, half indignation.

'Eh quoi!' said Perrine, 'it is only ondoyee. You can have all the ceremonies if ever time
shall fit; but do you think I could leave my Lady's child--mere girl though it be--alone with
owls, and follets, and REVENANTS, and heretics, and she unbaptized? She would be a changeling
long ere morning, I trow.'

'Come, good woman,' said Rotrou, from between the trusses of hay at the entrance; 'you and
I must begin our Colin-Mail-lard again, or it may be the worse for us both.'

And with the promise of being conducted to Eustacie again in three nights' time, if she would
meet her guide at the cross-roads after dark, Perrine was forced to take her leave. She had
never suspected that all this time Maitre Gardon had been hidden in the refectory below, and
still less did she guess that soon after her departure the old man was installed as her Lady's
chief attendant. It was impossible that Nanon should stay with Eustacie; she had her day's
work to attend to, and her absence would have excited suspicion. He, therefore, came partly
up the stairs, and calling to Nanon, proffered himself to sit with 'cette pauvre,' and make
a signal in case Nanon should be wanted. The good woman was thus relieved of a great care.
She would not have dared to ask it of him, but with a low reverence, she owned that it was
an act of great charity towards the poor lady, who, she hoped, was falling into a tranquil
sleep, but who she would hardly have dared to leave. The pastor, though hardships, battles,
and persecutions had left him childless, had been the father of a large family; and perhaps
he was drawn the more strongly towards the mother and child, because he almost felt as if,
in fulfilling the part of a father towards the widow of Berenger de Ribaumont, he was taking
her in the stead of the widow of his own Theodore.

Had the little Baronne de Ribaumont been lodged in a tapes-tried chamber, between curtains
of velvet and gold, with a beauffet by her side glistening with gold and silver plate, as would
have befitted her station, instead of lying on a bed of straw, with no hangings to the walls
save cobwebs and hay, and wallflowers, no beauffet but the old rickety table, no attendants
but Nanon and M. Gardon, no visitors but the two white owls, no provisions save the homely
fare that rustic mothers lived upon--neither she nor her babe could have thriven better, and
probably not half so well. She had been used to a hardy, out-of-door life, like the peasant
women; and she was young and strong, so that she recovered as they did. If the April shower
beat in at the window, or the hole in the roof, they made a screen of canvas, covered her with
cloaks, and heaped them with hay, and she took no harm; and the pure open air that blew in
was soft with all the southern sweetness of early spring-tide, and the little one throve in
it like the puff-ball owlets in the hayloft, or the little ring-doves in the ivy, whose parent's
cooing voice was Eustacie's favourite music. Almost as good as these her fellow-nestlings was
the little Moonbeam, la petite Rayonette, as Eustacie fondly called this light that had come
back to her from the sunshine she had lost. Had she cried or been heard, the sounds would probably
have passed for the wailings of the ghostly victims of the Templars, but she exercised an exemplary
forbearance in that respect, for which Eustacie thought she could not be sufficiently admired.

Like the child she was, Eustacie seemed to have put care from her, and to be solely taken up
with the baby, and the amusement of watching the owl family.

There was a lull in the search at this moment, for the Chevalier had been recalled to Paris
by the fatal illness of his son-in-law, M. de Selinvine. The old soldier, after living half
his life on bread and salad, that he might keep up a grand appearance at Paris, had, on coming
into the wealth of the family, and marrying a beautiful wife, returned to the luxuries he had
been wont only to enjoy for a few weeks at a time, with in military occupation of some Italian
town. Three months of festivities had been enough to cause his death; and the Chevalier was
summoned to assist his daughter in providing for his obsequies, and in taking possession of
the huge endowments which, as the last of his race, he had been able to bequeath to her. Such
was the news brought by the old nurse Perrine, who took advantage of the slackening vigilance
of the enemy to come to see Eustacie. The old woman was highly satisfied; for one of the peasants'
wives had--as if on purpose to oblige her Lady--given birth to twins, one of whom had died
almost immediately; and the parents had consented to conceal their loss, and at once take the
little Demoiselle de Ribaumont as their own--guarding the secret till her mother should be
able to claim her. It was so entirely the practice, under the most favourable circumstances,
for French mothers to send their infants to be nursed in cottages, that Perrine was amazed
by the cry of angry refusal that burst from Eustacie: 'Part with my child! leave her to her
enemies!--never! never! Hold your tongue, Perrine! I will not hear of such a thing!'

'But, Madame, hear reason. She will pass for one of Simonette's!'

'She shall pass for none but mine!--I part with thee, indeed! All that is left me of thy father!--the
poor little orphaned innocent, that no one loves but her mother!'

'Madame--Mademoiselle, this is not common sense! Why, how can you hide yourself? how travel
with a baby on your neck, whose crying may betray you?'

'She never cries--never, never! And better I were betrayed than she.'

'If it were a boy---' began Perrine.

'If it were a boy, there would be plenty to care for it. I should not care for it half so much.
As for my poor little lonely girl, whom every one wishes away but her mother--ah! yes, baby,
thy mother will go through fire and water for thee yet. Never fear, thou shalt not leave her!'

'No nurse can go with Madame. Simonette could not leave her home.'

'What needs a nurse when she has me?'

'But, Madame,' proceeded the old woman, out of patience, 'you are beside yourself! What noble
lady ever nursed her babe?'

'I don't care noble ladies--I care for my child,' said the vehement, petulant little thing.

'And how--what good will Madame's caring for it do? What knows she of infants? How can she
take care of it?'

'Our Lady will teach me,' said Eustacie, still pressing the child passionately to her heart;
'and see--the owl--the ring-dove--can take care of their little ones; the good God shows them
how--He will tell me how!'

Perrine regarded her Lady much as if she were in a naughty fit, refusing unreasonably to part
with a new toy, and Nanon Rotrou was much of the same mind; but it was evident that if at the
moment they attempted to carry off the babe, the other would put herself into an agony of passion,
that they durst not call forth; and they found it needful to do their best to soothe her out
of the deluge of agitated tears that fell from her eyes, as she grasped the child so convulsively
that she might almost have stifled it at once. They assured her that they would not take it
away now--not now, at any rate; and when the latent meaning made her fiercely insist that it
was to leave her neither now nor ever, Perrine made pacifying declarations that it should be
just as she pleased--promises that she knew well, when in that coaxing voice, meant nothing
at all. Nothing calmed her till Perrine had been conducted away; and even then Nanon could
not hush her into anything like repose, and at last called in the minister, in despair.

'Ah! sir, you are a wise man; can you find how to quiet the poor little thing? Her nurse has
nearly driven her distracted with talking of the foster-parents she has found for the child.'

'Not found!' cried Eustacie. 'No, for she shall never go!'

'There!' lamented Nanon--'so she agitates herself, when it is but spoken of. And surely she
had better make up her mind, for there is no other choice.'

'Nay, Nanon,' said M. Gardon, 'wherefore should she part with the charge that God has laid on her?'

Eustacie gave a little cry of grateful joy. 'Oh, sir, come nearer! Do you, indeed, say that
they have no right to tear her from me?'

'Surely not, Lady. It is you whose duty it is to shield and guard her.'

'Oh, sir, tell me again! Yours is the right religion. Oh, you are the minister for me! If you
will tell me I ought to keep my child, then I will believe everything else. I will do just
as you tell me.' And she stretched out both hands to him, with vehement eagerness.

'Poor thing! This is no matter of one religion or another,' said the minister; 'it is rather
the duty that the Almighty hath imposed, and that He hath made an eternal joy.'

'Truly,' said Nanon, ashamed at having taken the other side: 'the good pasteur says what is
according to nature. It would have gone hard with me if any one had wished to part me from
Robin or Sara; but these fine ladies, and, for that matter, BOURGEOISES too, always do put
out their babes; and it seemed to me that Madame would find it hard to contrive for herself--let
alone the little one.'

'Ah! but what would be the use of contriving for myself, without her?' said Eustacie.

If all had gone well and prosperously with Madame de Ribaumont, probably she would have surrendered
an infant born in purple and in pall to the ordinary lot of its contemporaries; but the exertions
and suffering she had undergone on behalf of her child, its orphanhood, her own loneliness,
and even the general disappointment in its sex, had given it a hold on her vehement, determined
heart, that intensified to the utmost the instincts of motherhood; and she listened as if to
an angle's voice as Maitre Gardon replied to Nanon--

'I say not that it is not the custom; nay, that my blessed wife and myself have not followed
it; but we have so oft had cause to repent the necessity, that far be it from me ever to bid
a woman forsake her sucking child.'

'Is that Scripture?' asked Eustacie. 'Ah! sir, sir, tell me more! You are giving me all--all--my
child! I will be--I am--a Huguenot like her father! and, when my vassals come, I will make
them ride with you to La Rochelle, and fight in your cause!'

'Nay,' said Maitre Gardon, taken by surprise; 'but, Lady, your vassals are Catholic.'

'What matters it? In my cause they shall fight!' said the feudal Lady, 'for me and my daughter!'

And as the pastor uttered a sound of interrogative astonishment, she continued--

'As soon as I am well enough, Blaise will send out messages, and they will meet me at midnight
at the cross-roads, Martin and all, for dear good Martin is quite well now, and we shall ride
across country, avoiding towns, wherever I choose to lead them. I had thought of Chantilly,
for I know M. de Montmorency would stand my friend against a Guisard; but now, now I know you,
sir, let me escort you to La Rochelle, and do your cause service worthy of Nid de Merle and
Ribaumont!' And as she sat up on her bed, she held up her little proud head, and waved her
right hand with the grace and dignity of a queen offering an alliance of her realm.

Maitre Gardon, who had hitherto seen her as a childish though cheerful and patient sufferer,
was greatly amazed, but he could not regard her project as practicable, or in his conscience
approve it; and after a moment's consideration he answered, 'I am a man of peace, Lady, and
seldom side with armed men, nor would I lightly make one of those who enroll themselves against
the King.'

'Not after all the Queen-mother had done!' cried Eustacie.

'Martyrdom is better than rebellion,' quietly answered the old man, folding his hands. Then
he added 'Far be it from me to blame those who have drawn the sword for the faith; yet, Lady,
it would not be even thus with your peasants; they might not follow you.'

'Then,' said Eustacie, with flashing eyes, 'they would be traitors.'

'Not to the King,' said the pastor, gently. 'Also, Lady, how will it be with their homes and
families--the hearths that have given you such faithful shelter?'

'The women would take to the woods,' readily answered she; 'it is summer-time, and they should
be willing to bear something for my sake. I should grieve indeed,' she added, 'if my uncle
misused them. They have been very good to me, but then they belong to me.'

'Ah! Lady, put from you that hardening belief of seigneurs. Think what their fidelity deserves
from their Lady.'

'I will be good to them! I do love them! I will be their very good mistress,' said Eustacie,
her eyes filling.

'The question is rather of forbearing than of doing,' said the minister.

'But what would you have me do?' asked Eustacie, petulantly.

'This, Lady. I gather that you would not return to your relations.'

'Never! never! They would rend my babe from me; they would kill her, or at least hide her for
ever in a convent--they would force me into this abhorrent marriage. No--no--no--my child and
I would die a hundred deaths together rather than fall into the hands of Narcisse.'

'Calm yourself, Lady; there is no present fear, but I deem that the safest course for the little
one would be to place her in England. She must be heiress to lands and estates there; is she not?'

'Yes; and in Normandy.'

'And your husband's mother lives? Wherefore then should you not take me for your guide, and
make your way--more secretly than would be possible with a peasant escort--to one of your Huguenot
towns on the coast, whence you could escape with the child to England?'

'My belle-mere has re-married! She has children! I would not bring the daughter of Ribaumont
as a suppliant to be scorned!' said Eustacie, pouting. 'She has lands enough of her own.'

'There is no need to discuss the question now,' said M. Gardon, gravely; for a most kind offer,
involving much peril and inconvenience to himself, was thus petulantly flouted. 'Madame will
think at her leisure of what would have been the wishes of Monsieur le Baron for his child.'

He then held himself aloof, knowing that it was not well for her health, mental or bodily,
to talk any more, and a good deal perplexed himself by the moods of his strange little impetuous
convert, if convert she could be termed. He himself was a deeply learned scholar, who had studied
all the bearings of the controversy; and, though bound to the French Reformers who would gladly
have come to terms with the Catholics at the Conference of Plassy, and regretted the more decided
Calvinism that his party had since professed, and in which the Day of St. Bartholomew confirmed
them. He had a strong sense of the grievous losses they suffered by their disunion from the
Church. The Reformed were less and less what his ardent youthful hopes had trusted to see them;
and in his old age he was a sorrow-stricken man, as much for the cause of religion as for personal
bereavements. He had little desire to win proselytes, but rather laid his hand to build up
true religion where he found it suffering shocks in these unsettled, neglected times; and his
present wish was rather to form and guide this little willful warm-hearted mother--whom he
could not help regarding with as much affection as pity--to find a home in the Church that
had been her husband's, than to gain her to his own party. And most assuredly he would never
let her involve herself, as she was ready to do, in the civil war, without even knowing the
doctrine which grave and earnest men had preferred to their loyalty.

He could hear her murmuring to her baby, 'No, no, little one, we are not fallen so low as to
beg our bread among strangers.' To live upon her own vassals had seemed to her only claiming
her just rights, but it galled her to think of being beholden to stranger Huguenots; and England
and her mother-in-law, without Berenger, were utterly foreign and distasteful to her.

Her mood was variable. Messages from Blaise and Martin came and went, and it became known that
her intended shelter at Chollet, together with all the adjacent houses, had been closely searched
by the younger Ribaumont in conjunction with the governor; so that it was plain that some treachery
must exist, and that she only owed her present freedom to her detention in the ruined temple;
and it would be necessary to leave that as soon as it was possible for her to attempt the journey.

The plan that seemed most feasible to the vassals was, that Rotrou should convey her in a cart
of fagots as far as possible on the road to Paris; that there his men should meet her by different
roads, riding their farm-horses--and Martin even hoped to be able to convey her own palfrey
to her from the monastery stable, and thence, taking a long stretch across country, they trusted
to be able to reach the lands of a dependant of the house of Montmorency, who would not readily
yield her up to a Guise's man. But, whether instigated by Perrine, or by their own judgment,
the vassals declared that, though Madame should be conducted wherever she desired, it was impossible
to encumber themselves with the infant. Concealment would be impossible; rough, hasty rides
would be retarded, her difficulties would be tenfold increased, and the little one would become
a means of tracing her. There was no choice but to leave it with Simonette.

Angrily and haughtily did Eustacie always reject this alternative, and send fresh commands
back by her messenger, to meet the same reply in another form. The strong will and practical
resolution of the stout farmers, who were about to make a terrible venture for her, and might
reasonably think they had a right to prescribe the terms that they thought best. All this time
Maitre Gardon felt it impossible to leave her, still weak and convalescent, alone in the desolate
ruin with her young child; though still her pride would not bend again to seek the counsel
that she had so much detested, nor to ask for the instruction that was to make her 'believe
like her husband.' If she might not fight for the Reformed, it seemed as if she would none
of their doctrine!

But, true lady that she was, she sunk the differences in her intercourse with him. She was
always prettily and affectionately grateful for every service that he rendered her, and as
graciously polite as though she had been keeping house in the halls of Ribaumont. Then her
intense love for her child was so beautiful, and there was so much sweetness in the cheerful
patience with which she endured the many hardships of her situation, that he could not help
being strongly interested in the willful, spirited little being.

And thus time passed, until one night, when Martin ventured over the farm with a report so
serious that Rotrou, at all risks, brought him up to communicate his own tidings. Some one
had given information, Veronique he suspected, and the two Chevaliers were certainly coming
the next day to search with fire the old buildings of the temple. It was already dawning towards
morning, and it would be impossible to do more at present than to let Rotrou build up the lady
in a vault, some little way off, whence, after the search was over, she could be released,
and join her vassals the next night according to the original design. As to the child, her
presence in the vault was impossible, and Martin had actually brought her intended nurse, Simonette,
to Rotrou's cottage to receive her.

'Never!' was all Eustacie answered. 'Save both of us, or neither.'

'Lady,' said M. Gardon as she looked towards him, 'I go my way with my staff.'

'And you--you more faithful than her vassals--will let me take her?'

'Assuredly.'

'Then, sir, even to the world's end will I go with you'

Martin would have argued, have asked, but she would not listen to him. It was Maitre Gardon
who made him understand the project. There was what in later times has been termed an underground
railway amid the persecuted Calvinists, and M. Gardon knew his ground well enough to have little
doubt of being able to conduct the lady safely to some town on the coast, whence she might
reach her friends in England. The plan highly satisfied Martin. It relieved him and his neighbours
from the necessity of provoking perilous wrath, and it was far safer for her herself than endeavouing
to force her way with an escort too large not to attract notice, yet not warlike enough for
efficient defence. He offered no further opposition, but augured that after all she would come
back a fine lady, and right them all.

Eustacie, recovering from her anger, and recollecting his services, gave him her hand to kiss,
and bade him farewell with a sudden effusion of gratitude and affection that warmed the honest
fellow's heart. Rewards could not be given, lest they should become a clue for her uncle; and
perhaps they would have wounded both him and their kind hosts, who did their best to assist
her in their departure. A hasty meal was provided by Nanon, and a basket so stored as to obviate
the need of entering a village, on that day at least, to purchase provisions; Eustacie's money
and jewels again formed the nucleus of the bundle of clothes and spare swaddling-banks of her
babe; her peasant dress was carefully arranged--a stout striped cloth skit and black bodice,
the latter covered by a scarlet Chollet kerchief. The winged white cap entirely hid her hair;
a gray cloak with a hood could either fold round her and her child or be strapped on her shoulders.
Her sabots were hung on her shoulder, for she had learnt to go barefoot, and walked much more
lightly thus; and her little bundle was slung on a staff on the back of Maitre Gardon, who
in his great peasant's hat and coat looked so like a picture of St. Joseph, that Eustacie,
as the light of the rising sun fell on his white beard and hair, was reminded of the Flight
into Egypt, and came close to him, saying shyly, 'Our Blessed Lady will bless and feel for
my baby. She knows what this journey is.'

'The Son of the Blessed Mary assuredly knows and blesses,' he answered.

CHAPTER XIX. LA RUE DES TROIS FEES

And round the baby fast and close  Her trembling grasp she folds. And with a strong convulsive
grasp  The little infant holds.--SOUTHEY.

A wild storm had raged all the afternoon, hail and rain had careered on the wings of the wind
along the narrow street of the Three Fairies, at the little Huguenot bourg of La Sablerie;
torrents of rain had poached the unpaved soil into a depth of mud, and thunder had reverberated
over the chimney-tops, and growled far away over the Atlantic, whose angry waves were tossing
on the low sandy coast about two miles from the town.

The evening had closed in with a chill, misty drizzle, and, almost May though it were, the
Widow Noemi Laurent gladly closed the shutters of her unglazed window, where small cakes and
other delicate confections were displayed, and felt the genial warmth of the little fire with
which she heated her tiny oven. She was the widow of a pastor who had suffered for his faith
in the last open persecution, and being the daughter of a baker, the authorities of the town
had permitted her to support herself and her son by carrying on a trade in the more delicate
'subtilties' of the art, which were greatly relished at the civic feasts. Noemi was a grave,
sad woman, very lonely ever since she had saved enough to send her son to study for the ministry
in Switzerland, and with an aching heart that longed to be at rest from the toil that she looked
on as a steep ladder on her way to a better home. She occupied two tiny rooms on the ground-floor
of a tall house; and she had just arranged her few articles of furniture with the utmost neatness,
when there was a low knock at her door, a knock that the persecuted well understood, and as
she lifted the latch, a voice she had known of old spoke the scriptural salutation, 'Peace
be with this house.'

'Eh quoi, Master Issac, is it thou? Come in--in a good hour--ah!'

As, dripping all round his broad hat and from every thread of his gray mantle, the aged traveller
drew into the house a female figure whom he had been supporting on his other arm, muffled head
and shoulders in a soaked cloak, with a petticoat streaming with wet, and feet and ankles covered
with mire, 'Here we are, my child,' he said tenderly, as he almost carried her to Noemi's chair.
Noemi, with kind exclamations of 'La pauvre! la pauvre!' helped the trembling cold hand to
open the wet cloak, and then cried out with fresh surprise and pity at the sight of the fresh
little infant face, nestled warm and snug under all the wrappings in those weary arms.

'See,' said the poor wanderer, looking up to the old man, with a faint smile; 'she is well--she
is warm--it hurts her not.'

'Can you take us in?' added M. Gardon, hastily; 'have you room?'

'Oh yes; if you can sleep on the floor here, I will take this poor dear to my own bed directly,'
said Noemi. 'Tenez' opening a chest; 'you will find dry clothes there, of my husband's. And
thou,' helping Eustacie up with her strong arm, and trying to take the little one, 'let me
warm and dry thee within.'

Too much worn out to make resistance, almost past speaking, knowing merely that she had reached
the goal that had been promised her throughout these weary days, feeling warmth, and hearing
kind tones, Eustacie submitted to be led into the inner room; and when the good widow returned
again, it was in haste to fetch some of the warm potage she had already been cooking over the
fire, and hastily bade M. Gardon help himself to the rest. She came back again with the babe,
to wash and dress it in the warmth of her oven fire. Maitre Gardon, in the black suit of a
Calvinist pastor, had eaten his potage, and was anxiously awaiting her report. 'Ah! la pauvre,
with His blessing she will sleep! she will do well. But how far did you come to-day?'

'From Sainte Lucie. From the Grange du Temple since Monday.'

'Ah! is it possible? The poor child! And this little one--sure, it is scarce four weeks old?'

'Four weeks this coming Sunday.'

'Ah! the poor thing. The blessing of Heaven must have been with you to bear her through. And
what a lovely infant--how white--what beauteous little limbs! Truly, she has sped well. Little
did I think, good friend, that you had this comfort left, or that our poor Theodore's young
wife had escaped.'

'Alas! no, Noemi; this is no child of Theodore's. His wife shared his martyrdom. It is I who
am escaped alone to tell thee. But, nevertheless, this babe is an orphan of that same day.
Her father was the son of the pious Baron de Ribaumont, the patron of your husband, and of
myself in earlier days.'

'Ah!' exclaimed Noemi, startled. 'Then the poor young mother--is she--can she be the lost Demoiselle
de Nid de Merle?'

'Is the thing known here? The will of Heaven be done; but she can send to her husband's kindred
in England.'

'She might rest safely enough, if others beside myself believed in her being your son's widow,'
said Noemi. 'Wherefore should she not be thought so?'

'Poor Esperance! She would willingly have lent her name to guard another,' said Master Gardon,
thoughtfully; 'and, for the sake of the child, my little lady may endure it. Ah! there is the
making of a faithful and noble woman in that poor young thing. Bravely, patiently, cheerfully,
hath she plodded this weary way; and, verily, she hath grown like my own daughter to me--as
I never thought to love earthly thing again; and had this been indeed my Theodore's child,
I could hardly care for it more.'

And as he related how he had fallen in with the forlorn Lady of Ribaumont, and all that she
had dared, done, and left undone for the sake of her little daughter, good Noemi Laurent wept,
and agreed with him that a special providence must have directed them to his care, and that
some good work must await one who had been carried through so much. His project was to remain
here for a short time, to visit the flock who had lost their pastor on the day of the massacre,
and to recruit his own strength; for he, too, had suffered severely from the long travelling,
and the exposure during many nights, especially since all that was warm and sheltered had been
devoted to Eustacie. And after this he proposed to go to La Rochelle, and make inquiries for
a trusty messenger who could be sent to England to seek out the family of the Baron de Ribaumont,
or, mayhap, a sufficient escort with whom the lady could travel; though he had nearly made
up his mind that he would not relinquish the care of her until he had safely delivered her
to her husband's mother.

Health and life were very vigorous in Eustacie; and though at first she had been completely
worn out, a few days of comfort, entire rest, and good nursing restored her. Noemi dressed
her much like herself, in a black gown, prim little white starched ruff, and white cap,--a
thorough Calvinist dress, and befitting a minister's widow. Eustacie winced a little at hearing
of the character that had been fastened upon her; she disliked for her child, still more than
for herself, to take this bourgeois name of Gardon; but there was no help for it, since, though
he chief personages of the town were Huguenot, there could be no safety for her if the report
were once allowed to arise that the Baronne de Ribaumont had taken refuge there.

It was best that she should be as little noticed as possible; nor, indeed, had good Noemi many
visitors. The sad and sorrowful woman had always shut herself up with her Bible and her meditations,
and sought no sympathy from her neighbours, nor encourage gossip in her shop. In the first
days, when purchasers lingered to ask if it were true that Maitre Gardon had brought his daughter-in-law
and grandchild, her stern-faced, almost grim answer, that 'la pauvre was ill at ease,' silenced
them, and forced them to carry off their curiosity unsatisfied; but it became less easy to
arrange when Eustacie herself was on foot again--refreshed, active, and with an irrepressible
spring of energy and eagerness that could hardly be caged down in the Widow Laurent's tiny
rooms. Poor child, had she not been ill and prostrate at first, and fastened herself on the
tender side of the good woman's heart by the sweetness of an unselfish and buoyant nature in
illness, Noemi could hardly have endured such an inmate, not even half a Huguenot, full of
little Catholic observances like second nature to her; listening indeed to the Bible for the
short time, but always, when it was expounded, either asleep, or finding some amusement indispensable
for her baby; eager for the least variety, and above all spoilt by Maitre Gardon to a degree
absolutely perplexing to the grave woman.

He would not bid her lay aside the observances that, to Noemi, seemed almost worship of the
beast. He rather reverted to the piety which originated them; and argued with his old friend
that it was better to build than to destroy, and that, before the fabric of truth, superstition
would crumble away of itself. The little he taught her sounded to Noemi's puzzled ears mere
Christianity instead of controversial Calvinism. And, moreover, he never blamed her for wicked
worldliness when she yawned; but even devised opportunities for taking her out for a walk,
to see as much life as might be on a market-day. He could certainly not forget--as much as
would have been prudent--that she was a high-born lady; and even seemed taken aback when he
found her with her sleeves turned up over her shapely-delicate arms, and a thick apron before
her, with her hands in Veuve Laurent's flour, showing her some of those special mysterious
arts of confectionery in which she had been initiated by Soeur Bernardine, when, not three
years ago, she had been the pet of the convent at Bellaise. At first it was half sport and
the desire of occupation, but the produce of her manipulations was so excellent as to excite
quite a sensation in La Sablerie, and the echevins and baillis sent in quite considerable orders
for the cakes and patties of Maitre Gardon's Paris-bred daughter-in-law.

Maitre Gardon hesitated. Noemi Laurent told him she cared little for the gain--Heaven knew
it was nothing to her--but that she thought it wrong and inconsistent in him to wish to spare
the poor child's pride, which was unchristian enough already. 'Nay,' he said sadly, 'mortifications
from without do little to tame pride; nor did I mean to bring her here that she should turn
cook and confectioner to pamper the appetite of Baillis La Grasse.'

But Eustacie's first view was a bright pleasure in the triumph of her skill; and when her considerate
guardian endeavoured to impress on her that there was no necessity for vexing herself with
the task, she turned round on him with the exclamation, 'Nay, dear father, do you not see it
is my great satisfaction to be able to do something for our good hostess, so that my daughter
and I be not a burden to her?'

'Well spoken, my Lady,' said the pastor; 'there is real nobility in that way of thinking. Yet,
remember, Noemi is not without means; she feels not the burden. And the flock contribute enough
for the shepherd's support, and yours likewise.'

'Then let her give it to the poor creatures who so often come in begging, and saying they have
been burned out of house and home by one party or the other,' said Eustacie. 'Let me have my
way, dear sir; Soeur Bernadine always said I should be a prime menagere. I like it so much.'

And Madame de Ribaumont mixed sugar and dough, and twisted quaint shapes, and felt important
and almost light-hearted, and sang over her work and over her child songs that were not always
Marot's psalms; and that gave the more umbrage to Noemi, because she feared that Maitre Gardon
actually like to hear them, though, should their echo reach the street, why it would be a peril,
and still worse, a horrible scandal that out of that sober, afflicted household should proceed
profane tunes such as court ladies sang.

CHAPTER XX. THE ABBE.

     By the day and night her sorrows fall
       Where miscreant hands and rude
     Have stained her pure, ethereal pall
       With many a martyr's blood.
     And yearns not her maternal heart
       To hear their secret sighs,
     Upon whose doubting way apart
       Bewildering shadows rise?--KEBLE

It was in the summer twilight that Eustacie, sitting on the doorstep between the two rooms,
with her baby on her knees, was dreamily humming to her a tune, without even words, but one
that she loved, because she had first learnt to sing it with Berenger and his friend Sidney
to the lute of the latter; and its notes always brought before her eyes the woods of Montpipeau.
Then it was that, low and soft as was the voice, that befell which Noemi had feared: a worn,
ragged-looking young man, who had been bargaining at the door for a morsel of bread in exchange
for a handkerchief, started at the sound, and moved so as to like into the house.

Noemi was at the moment not attending, being absorbed in the study of the handkerchief, which
was of such fine, delicate texture that an idea of its having been stolen possessed her; and
she sought the corner where, as she expected, a coat-of-arms was embroidered. Just as she was
looking up to demand explanation, the stranger, with a sudden cry of 'Good heavens, it is she!'
pushed past her into the house, and falling on his knee before Eustacie, exclaimed, 'O Lady,
Lady, is it thus that I see you?'

Eustacie had started up in dismay, crying out, 'Ah! M. l'Abbe, as you are a gentleman, betray
me not. Oh! have they sent you to find me? Have pity on us! You loved my husband!'

'You have nothing to fear from me, Lady,' said the young man, still kneeling; 'if you are indeed
a distressed fugitive--so am I. If you have shelter and friends--I have none.'

'Is it indeed so?' said Eustacie, wistfully, yet scarce reassured. 'You are truly not come
from my uncle. Indeed, Monsieur, I would not doubt you, but you see I have so much at stake.
I have my little one here, and they mean so cruelly by her.'

'Madame, I swear by the honour of a nobleman--nay, by all that is sacred--that I know nothing
of your uncle. I have been a wanderer for many weeks past; proscribed and hunted down because
I wished to seek into the truth.'

'Ah!' said Eustacie, with a sound of relief, and of apology, 'pardon me, sir; indeed, I know
you were good. You loved my husband;' and she reached out her hand to raise him, when he kissed
it reverently. Little bourgeoise and worn mendicant as they were in dress, the air of the Louvre
breathed round them; and there was all its grace and dignity as the lady turned round to her
astonished hosts, saying, 'Good sir, kind mother, this gentleman is, indeed, what you took
me for, a fugitive for the truth. Permit me to present to you, Monsieur l'Abbe de Mericour--at
least, so he was, when last I had the honour to see him.'

The last time HE had seen her, poor Eustacie had been incapable of seeing anything save that
bloody pool at the foot of the stairs.

Mericour now turned and explained. 'Good friends,' he said courteously, but with the fierete
of the noble not quite out of his tone, 'I beg your grace. I would not have used so little
ceremony, if I had not been out of myself at recognizing a voice and a tune that could belong
to none but Madame---'

'Sit down, sir,' said Noemi, a little coldly and stiffly--for Mericour was a terrible name
to Huguenots ears; 'a true friend to this lady must needs be welcome, above all if he comes
in Heaven's name.'

'Sit down and eat, sir,' added Gardon, much more heartily; 'and forgive us for not having been
more hospitable--but the times have taught us to be cautious, and in that lady we have a precious
charge. Rest; for you look both weary and hungry.'

Eustacie added an invitation, understanding that he would not sit without her permission, and
then, as he dropped into a chair, she exclaimed, 'Ah! sir, you are faint, but you are famished.'

'It will pass,' he said; 'I have not eaten to-day.'

Instantly a meal was set before him, and ere long he revived; and as the shutters were closed,
and shelter for the night promised to him by a Huguenot family lodging in the same house, he
began to answer Eustacie's anxious questions, as well as to learn from her in return what had
brought her into her present situation.

Then it was that she recollected that it had been he who, at her cousin Diane's call, had seized
her when she was rushing out of the palace in her first frenzy of grief, and had carried her
back to the women's apartments.

'It was that day which brought me here,' he said.

And he told how, bred up in his own distant province, by a pious and excellent tutor, he had
devoutly believed in the extreme wickedness of the Reformers; but in his seclusion he had been
trained to such purity of faith and morals, that, when his brother summoned him to court to
solicit a benefice, he had been appalled at the aspect of vice, and had, at the same time,
been struck by the pure lives of the Huguenots; for truly, as things then were at the French
court, crime seemed to have arrayed itself on the side of the orthodox party, all virtue on
that of the schismatics.

De Mericour consulted spiritual advisers, who told him that none but Catholics could be truly
holy, and that what he admired were merely heathen virtues that the devil permitted the Huguenots
to display in order to delude the unwary. With this explanation he had striven to be satisfied,
though eyes unblended by guilt and a pure heart continued to be revolted at the practices which
his Church, scared at the evil times, and forgetful of her own true strength, left undenounced
in her partisans. And the more that the Huguenot gentlemen thronged the court, and the young
Abbe was thrown into intercourse with them, and the more he perplexed himself how the truth,
the faith, the uprightness, the forbearance, the purity that they evinced could indeed be wanting
in the zeal that made them acceptable. Then came the frightful morning when carnage reigned
in every street, and the men who had been treated as favourite boon companions were hunted
down like wild beasts in every street. He had endeavoured to save life, but would have speedily
been slaughtered himself except for his soutane; and in all good faith he had hurried to the
Louvre, to inform royalty of the horrors that, as he thought, a fanatic passion was causing
the populace to commit.

He found the palace become shambles--the King himself, wrought up to frenzy, firing on the
fugitives. And the next day, while his brain still seemed frozen with horror, he was called
on to join in the procession of thanksgiving for the King's deliverance from a dangerous plot.
Surely, if the plot were genuine, he thought, the procession should have savoured of penance
and humiliation rather than of barbarous exultation! Yet these might be only the individual
crimes of the Queen-mother, and of the Guises seeking to mask themselves under the semblance
of zeal; and the infallible head of the visible Church would disown the slaughter, and cast
it from the Church with loathing as a blood-stained garment. Behold, Rome was full of rejoicing,
and sent sanction and commendation of the pious zeal of the King! Had the voice of Holy Church
become indeed as the voice of the bloodhound? Was this indeed her call?

The young man, whose life from infancy had been marked out for the service of the Church--so
destined by his parents as securing a wealthy provision for a younger son, but educated by
his good tutor with more real sense of his obligations--felt the question in its full import.
He was under no vows; he had, indeed, received the tonsure, but was otherwise unpledged, and
he was bent on proving all things. The gaieties in which he had at first mingled had become
abhorrent to him, and he studied with the earnestness of a newly-awakened mind in search of
true light. The very face of study and inquiry, in one of such a family as that of his brother
the Duke de Mericour, was enough to excite suspicion of Huguenot inclinations. The elder brother
tried to quash the folly of the younger, by insisting on his sharing the debaucheries which,
whether as priest or monk, or simply as Christian man, it would be his duty to abjure; and
at length, by way of bringing things to a test, insisted on his making one of a party who were
about to break up and destroy a Huguenot assembly. Unable, in his present mood, to endure the
thought of further cruelty, the young Abbe fled, gave secret warning to the endangered congregation,
and hastened to the old castle in Brittany, where he had been brought up, to pour out his perplexities,
and seek the counsel of the good old chaplain who had educated him. Whether the kind, learned,
simple-hearted tutor could have settled his mind, he had no time to discover, for he had scarcely
unfolded his troubles before warnings came down that he had better secure himself--his brother,
as head of the family, had obtained the royal assent to the imprisonment of the rebellious
junior, so as to bring him to a better mind, and cure him of the Huguenot inclinations, which
in the poor lad were simply undeveloped. But in all the Catholic eyes he was a tainted man,
and his almost inevitable course was to take refuge with some Huguenot relations. There he
was eagerly welcome; instruction was poured in on him; but as he showed a disposition to inquire
and examine, and needed time to look into what they taught him, as one who feared to break
his link with the Church, and still longed to find her blameless and glorious, the righteous
nation that keepeth the truth, they turned on him and regarded him as a traitor and a spy,
who had come among them on false pretences.

All the poor lad wanted was time to think, time to examine, time to consult authorities, living
and dead. The Catholics called this treason to the Church, the Huguenots called it halting
between two opinions; and between them he was a proscribed, distrusted vagabond, branded on
one side as a recreant, and on the other as a traitor. He had asked for a few months of quiet,
and where could they be had? His grand-mother had been the daughter of a Scottish nobleman
in the French service, and he had once seen a nephew of hers who had come to Paris during the
time of Queen Mary's residence there. He imagined that if he were once out of this distracted
land of France, he might find respite for study, for which he longed; and utterly ignorant
of the real state of Scotland, he had determined to make his way to his kindred there; and
he had struggled on the way to La Rochelle, cheated out of the small remains of his money,
selling his last jewels and all the clothing that was not indispensable, and becoming so utterly
unable to pay his passage to England, that he could only trust to Providence to find him some
means of reaching his present goal.

He had been listened to with kindness, and a sympathy such as M. Gardon's large mind enable
him to bestow, where his brethren had been incapable of comprehending that a man could sincerely
doubt between them and Rome. When the history was finished, Eustacie exclaimed, turning to
Maitre Gardon, 'Ah! sir, is not this just what we sought? If this gentleman would but convey
a letter to my mother-in-law---'

M. Gardon smiled. 'Scotland and England are by no means the same place, Lady,' he said.

'Whatever this lady would command, wherever she would send me, I am at her service,' cried
the Abbe, fervently.

And, after a little further debate, it was decided that it might really be the best course,
for him as for Madame de Ribaumont, to become the bearer of a letter and token from her, entreating
her mother-in-law to notify her pleasure whether she should bring her child to England. She
had means enough to advance a sufficient sum to pay Mericour's passage, and he accepted it
most punctiliously as a loan, intending, so soon as her despatches were ready, to go on to
La Rochelle, and make inquiry for a ship.

Chance, however, seemed unusually propitious, for the next day there was an apparition in the
streets of La Sablerie of four or five weather-beaten, rollicking-looking men, their dress
profusely adorned with ribbons, and their language full of strange oaths. They were well known
at La Sablerie as sailors belonging to a ship of the fleet of the Count de Montgomery, the
unfortunate knight whose lance had caused the death of King Henry II., and who, proscribed
by the mortal hatred of Catherine de Medicis, had become the admiral of a piratical fleet in
the Calvinist interest, so far winked at the Queen Elizabeth that it had its head-quarters
in the Channel Islands, and thence was a most formidable foe to merchant vessels on the northern
and eastern coasts of France; and often indulged in descents on the coast, when the sailors--being
in general the scum of the nation--were apt to comport themselves more like American buccaneers
than like champions of any form of religion.

La Sablerie was a Huguenot town, so they used no violence, but only swaggered about, demanding
from Bailli La Grasse, in the name of their gallant Captain Latouche, contributions and provisions,
and giving him to understand that if he did not comply to the uttermost it should be the worse
for him. Their ship, it appeared, had been forced to put into the harbour, about two miles
off, and Maitre Gardon and the young Abbe decided on walking thither to see it, and to have
an interview with the captain, so as to secure a passage for Mericour at least. Indeed Maitre
Gardon had, in consultation with Eustacie, resolved, if he found things suitable, to arrange
for their all going together. She would be far safer out of France; and, although the Abbe
alone could not have escorted her, yet Maitre Gardon would gladly have secured for her the
additional protection of a young, strong, and spirited man; and Eustacie, who was no scribe,
was absolutely relieved to have the voyage set before her as an alternative to the dreadful
operation of composing a letter to the belle-mere, whom she had not seen since she had been
seven years old, and of whose present English name she had the most indistinct ideas.

However, the first sight of the ship overthrew all such ideas. It was a wretched single-decked
vessel, carrying far more sail than experienced nautical eyes would have deemed safe, and with
no accommodation fit for a woman and child, even had the aspect of captain or crew been more
satisfactory--for the ruffianly appearance and language of the former fully rivaled that of
his sailors. It would have been mere madness to think of trusting the lady in such hands; and,
without a word to each other, Gardon and Mericour resolved to give no hint even that she and
her jewels were in La Sablerie. Mericour, however, made his bargain with the captain, who understood
to transport him as far as Guernsey, whence he might easily make his way to Dorsetshire, where
M. Gardon knew that Berenger's English home had been.

So Eustacie, with no small trouble and consideration, indited her letter--telling of her escape,
the birth of her daughter, the dangers that threatened her child--and begging that its grand-mother
would give it a safe home in England, and love it for the sake of its father. An answer would
find her at the Widow Noemi Laurent's, Rue des Trois Fees, La Sablerie. She could not bring
herself to speak of the name of Eserance Gardon which had been saddled upon her; and even M.
de Mericour remained in ignorance of her bearing this disguise. She recommended him to the
kindness of her mother-in-law; and M. Gardon added another letter to the lady, on behalf of
the charge to whom he promised to devote himself until he should see them safe in friendly
hands. Both letters were addressed, as best they might be, between Eustacie's dim comprehension
of the word Thistlewood, and M. Gardon's notion of spelling. 'Jadis, Baronne de Ribaumont'
was the securest part of the direction.

And for a token, Eustacie looked over her jewels to find one that would serve for a token;
but the only ones she knew would be recognized, were the brooch that had fastened the plume
in Berenger's bloody cap, and the chaplet of pearls. To part with the first, or to risk the
second in the pirate-ship, was impossible, but Eustacie at last decided upon detaching the
pear-shaped pearl which was nearest the clasp, and which was so remarkable in form and tint
that there was no doubt of its being well known.

CHAPTER XXI. UNDER THE WALNUT-TREE

  Mistress Jean was making the elder-flower wine--
  'And what brings the
  Laird at sic a like time?'
                              LADY NAIRN, THE LAIRD OF COCKPEN

Summer was nearly ended, and Lucy Thistlewood was presiding in the great kitchen of the Manor-house,
standing under the latticed window near the large oak-table, a white apron over her dress,
presiding over the collecting of elder-berries for the brew of household-wine for the winter.
The maids stood round her with an array of beechen bowls or red and yellow crocks, while barefooted,
bareheaded children came thronging in with rush or wicker baskets of the crimson fruit, which
the maids poured in sanguine cascades into their earthenware; and Lucy requited with substantial
slices of bread and cheese, and stout homely garment mostly of her own sewing.

Lucy was altogether an inmate of her father's house. She had not even been at Hurst Walwyn
for many months; for her step-mother's reiterated hopes that Berenger would make her his consolation
for all he had suffered from his French spouse rendered it impossible to her to meet him with
sisterly unconsciousness; and she therefore kept out of the way, and made herself so useful
at home, that Dame Annora only wondered how it had been possible to spare her so long, and
always wound up her praises by saying, that Berenger would learn in time how lucky he had been
to lose the French puppet, and win the good English housewife.

If only tidings would have come that the puppet was safe married. That was the crisis which
all the family desired yet feared for Berenger, since nothing else they saw would so detach
his thoughts from the past as the leave him free to begin life again. The relapse brought on
by the cruel reply to Osbert's message had been very formidable: he was long insensible or
delirious and then came a state of annihilated thought, then of frightfully sensitive organs,
when light, sound, movement, or scent were alike agony; and when he slowly revived, it was
with such sunken spirits, that his silence was as much from depression as from difficulty of
speech. His brain was weak, his limbs feeble, the wound in his mouth never painless; and all
this necessarily added to his listless indifference and weariness, as though all youthful hope
and pleasure were extinct in him. He had ceased to refer to the past. Perhaps he had thought
it over, and seen that the deferred escape, the request for the pearls, the tryst at the palace,
and detention from the king's chamber, made an uglier case against Eustacie than he could endure
to own even to himself. If his heart trusted, his mind could not argue out her defence, and
his tongue would not serve him for discussion with his grandfather, the only person who could
act for him. Perhaps the stunned condition of his mind made the suspense just within the bounds
of endurance, while trust in his wife's innocence rendered his inability to come to her aid
well-nigh intolerable; and doubt of her seemed both profanity and misery unspeakable. He could
do nothing. He had shot his only shaft by sending Landry Osbert, and had found that to endeavour
to induce his grandfather to use further measures was worse than useless, and was treated as
mere infatuation. He knew that all he had to do was to endeavour for what patience he could
win from Cecily's sweet influence and guidance, and to wait till either certainty should come--that
dreadful, miserable certainty that all looked for, and his very helplessness might be bringing
about--or till he should regain strength to be again effective.

And miserably slow work was this recovery. No one had surgical skill to deal with so severe
a wound as that which Narcisse had inflicted; and the daily pain and inconvenience it caused
led to innumerable drawbacks that often--even after he had come as far as the garden--brought
him back to his bed in a dark room, to blood-letting, and to speechlessness. No one knew much
of his mind--Cecily perhaps the most; and next to her, Philip--who, from the time he had been
admitted to his step-brother's presence, had been most assiduous in tending him--seemed to
understand his least sign, and to lay aside all his boisterous roughness in his eager desire
to do him service. The lads had loved each other from the moment they had met as children,
but never so apparently as now, when all the rude horse-play of healthy youths was over--and
one was dependent, the other considerate. And if Berenger had made on one else believe in Eustacie,
he had taught Philip to view her as the 'Queen's men' viewed Mary of Scotland. Philip had told
Lucy the rough but wholesome truth, that 'Mother talks mere folly. Eustacie is no more to be
spoken of with you than a pheasant with old brown Partlet; and Berry waits but to be well to
bring her off from all her foes. And I'll go with him.'

It was on Philip's arm that Berenger first crept round the bowling-green, and with Philip at
his rein that he first endured to ride along the avenue on Lord Walwyn's smooth-paced palfrey;
and it was Philip who interrupted Lucy's household cares by rushing in and shouting, 'Sister,
here! I have wiled him to ride over the down, and he is sitting under the walnut-tree quite
spent, and the three little wenches are standing in a row, weeping like so many little mermaids.
Come, I say!'

Lucy at once followed him through the house, through the deep porch to the court, which was
shaded by a noble walnut-tree, where Sir Marmaduke loved to sit among his dogs. There not sat
Berenger, resting against the trunk, overcome by the heat and exertion of his ride. His cloak
and hat lay on the ground; the dogs fawned round him, eager for the wonted caress, and his
three little sisters stood a little aloof, clinging to one another and crying piteously.

It was their first sight of him; and it seemed to them as if he were behind a frightful mask.
Even Lucy was not without a sensation of the kind, of this effect in the change from the girlish,
rosy complexion to extreme paleness, on which was visible, in ghastly red and purple, the great
scar left by Narcisse, from the temple on the one side to the ear on the other.

The far more serious would on the cheek was covered with a black patch, and the hair had almost
entirely disappeared from the head, only a few light brown locks still hanging round the neck
and temples, so that the bald brow gave a strange look of age; and the disfigurement was terrible,
enhanced as it was by the wasting effect of nearly a year of sickness. Lucy was so much shocked,
that she could hardly steady her voice to chide the children for not giving a better welcome
to their brother. They would have clung round her, but she shook them off, and sent Annora
in haste for her mother's fan; while Philip arriving with a slice of diet-bread and a cup of
sack, the one fanned him, and the other fed him with morsels of the cake soaked in the wine,
till he revived, looked up with eyes that were unchanged, and thanked them with a few faltering
words, scarcely intelligible to Lucy. The little girls came nearer, and curiously regarded
him but when he held out his hand to his favourite Dolly, she shrank back in reluctance.

'Do not chide her,' he said wearily. 'May she never become used to such marks!'

'What, would you have her live among cowards?' exclaimed Philip; but Berenger, instead of answering,
looked up at the front of the house, one of those fine Tudor facades that seem all carved timber
and glass lattice, and asked, so abruptly that Lucy doubted whether she heard him alright,--'How
many windows are there in this front?'

'I never counted,' said Philip.

'I have,' said Annora; 'there are seven and thirty, besides the two little ones in the porch.'

'None shall make them afraid,' he muttered. 'Who would dare build such a defenceless house
over yonder?'--pointing south.

'Our hearts are guarded now,' said Philip, proudly. Berenger half smiled, as he was wont to
do when he meant more than he could conveniently utter, and presently he asked, in the same
languid, musing tone, 'Lucy, were you ever really affrighted?'

Lucy questioned whether he could be really in his right mind, as if the bewilderment of his
brain was again returning; and while she paused, Annora exclaimed, 'Yes, when we were gathering
cowslips, and the brindled cow ran at us, and Lucy could not run because she had Dolly in her
arm. Oh! we were frightened then, till you came, brother.'

'Yes,' added Bessie; 'and last winter too, when the owl shrieked at the window---'

'And,' added Berenger, 'sister, what was your greatest time of revelry?'

Annora again put in her word. 'I know, brother; you remember the fair-day, when my Lady Grandame
was angered because you and Lucy went on dancing when we and all then gentry had ceased. And
when Lucy said she had not seen that you were left alone, Aunt Cecily said it was because the
eyes of discretion were lacking.'

'Oh, the Christmas feast was far grander,' said Bessie. 'Then Lucy had her first satin farthingale,
and three gallants, besides my brother, wanted to dance with her.'

Blushing deeply, Lucy tried to hush the little ones, much perplexed by the questions, and confused
by the answers. Could he be contrasting the life where a vicious cow had been the most alarming
object, a greensward dance with a step-brother the greatest gaiety, dye of the elder juice
the deepest stain, with the temptations and perils that had beset one equally young? Resting
his head on his hand, his elbow on his knee, he seemed to be musing in a reverie that he could
hardly brook, as his young brow was knitted by care and despondency.

Suddenly, the sounds in the village rose from the quiet sleepy summer hum into a fierce yell
of derisive vituperation, causing Philip at once to leap up, and run across the court to the
entrance-gate, while Lucy called after him some vain sisterly warning against mingling in a fray.

It seemed as if his interposition had a good effect, for the uproar lulled almost as soon as
he had hurried to the scene of action; and presently he reappeared, eager and breathless. 'I
told them to bring him up here,' he said; 'they would have flogged him at the cart's-tail,
the rogues, just because my father is out of the way. I could not make out his jargon, but
you can, brother; and make that rascal Spinks let him go.'

'What should I have to do with it?' said Berenger, shrinking from the sudden exposure of his
scarred face and maimed speech. 'I am no magistrate.'

'But you can understand him; he is French, the poor rogue something abut a letter, and wanting
to ask his way. Ah! I thought that would touch you, and it will cost you little pains, and
slouching it over his face, rose, and, leaning upon Annora's shoulder, stepped forward, just
as the big burly blacksmith-constable and small shriveled cobbler advanced, dragging along,
by a cord round the wrists, a slight figure with a red woolen sailor's shirt, ragged black
hosen, bare head, and almost bare feet.

Doffing their caps, the men began an awkward salutation to the young Lord on his recovery,
but he only touched his beaver in return, and demanded, 'How now! what have you bound him for?'

'You see, my Lord,' began the constable, 'there have been a sort of vagrants of late, and I'll
be bound' twas no four-legged fox as took Gaffer Shepherd's lamb.'

The peroration was broken off, for with a start as if he had been shot, Berenger cried aloud,
'Mericour! the Abbe!'

'Ah, Monsieur, if you know me,' cried the young man, raising his head, 'free me from this shame--aid
me in my mission!'

'Loose him, fellows,' shouted Berenger; 'Philip, a knife--Lucy, those scissors.'

'Tis my duty, my Lord,' said Spinks, gruffly. 'All vagabonds to be apprehended and flogged
at the cart's-tail, by her Grace's special commands. How is it to be answered to his Honour,
Sir Marmaduke?'

'Oaf!' cried Philip, 'you durst not have used such violence had my father been at home! Don't
you see my brother knows him?'

With hands trembling with haste, Berenger had seized the scissors that, house-wife like, hung
at Lucy's waist, and was cutting the rope, exclaiming in French, 'Pardon, pardon, friend, for
so shameful a reception.'

'Sir,' was the reply, without a sign of recognition, 'if, indeed, you know my name, I entreat
you to direct me to the chateau of Le Sieur Tistefote, whose lady was once Baronne de Ribaumont.'

'My mother! Ah, my friend, my friend! what would you?' he cried in a tone of tremulous hope
and fear, laying one hand on Mericour's shoulder, and about to embrace him.

Mericour retreated from him; but the high-spirited young man crossed his arms on his breast,
and gazing at the group with indignant scorn, made answer, 'My message is from her who deems
herself a widow, to the mother of the husband whom she little imagines to be not only alive,
but consoled.'

'Faithful! Faithful!' burst out Berenger, with a wild, exultant, strangely-ringing shout. 'Woe,
woe to those who would have had me doubt her! Philip--Lucy--hear! Her truth is clear to all
the world!' Then changing back again to French, 'Ten thousand blessings on you, Mericour! You
have seen her! Where--how?'

Mericour still spoke with frigid politeness. 'I had the honour to part with Madame la Baronne
de Ribaumont in the town of La Sablerie, among humble, Huguenot guardians, to whom she had
fled, to save her infant's life--when no aid came.'

He was obliged to break off, for Berenger, stunned by the sudden rush of emotion, reeled as
he stood, and would have fallen but for the prompt support of Lucy, who was near enough to
guide him back to rest upon the bench, saying resentfully in French as she did so, 'My brother
is still very ill. I pray you, sir, have a care.'

She had not half understood the rapid words of the two young men, Philip comprehended them
far less, and the constable and his crew of course not at all; and Spinks pushed forward among
the group as he saw Berenger sink back on the bench; and once more collaring his prisoner,
exclaimed almost angrily to Philip, 'There now, sir, you've had enough of the vagabond. We'll
keep him tight ere he bewitches any more of you.'

This rude interference proved an instant restorative. Berenger sprang up at once, and seizing
Spink's arm, exclaimed, 'Hands off, fellow! This is my friend--a gentleman. He brings me tidings
of infinite gladness. Who insults him, insults me.'

Spinks scarcely withdrew his hand from Mericour's neck; and scowling, said, 'Very odd gentleman--very
queer tidings, Master Berenger, to fell you like an ox. I must be answerable for the fellow
till his Honour comes.'

'Ah! Eh quoi, wherefore not show the canaille your sword?' said Mericour, impatiently.

'It may not be here, in England,' said Berenger (who fortunately was not wearing his weapon).
'And in good time here comes my step-father,' as the gate swung back, and Sir Marmaduke and
Lady Thistlewood rode through it, the former sending his voice far before him to demand the
meaning of the hurly-burly that filled his court.

Philip was the first to spring to his rein, exclaiming, 'Father, it is a Frenchman whom Spinks
would have flogged at the cart's-tail; but it seems he is a friend of Berenger's, and has brought
him tidings. I know not what--about his wife, I believe--any way he is beside himself with joy.'

'Sir, your Honour,' shouted Spinks, again seizing Mericour, and striving to drag him forward,
'I would know whether the law is to be hindered from taking its course because my young Lord
there is a Frenchman and bewitched.'

'Ah,' shrieked Lady Thistlewood, 'I knew it. They will have sent secret poison to finish him.
Keep the fellow safe. He will cast it in the air.'

'Ay, ay, my Lady,' said Spinks, 'there are plenty of us to testify that he made my young Lord
fall back as in a swoon, and reel like one distraught. Pray Heaven it have not gone further.'

'Sir,' exclaimed Berenger, who on the other side held his friend's hand tight, 'this is a noble
gentleman--the brother of the Duke de Mericour. He has come at great risk to bring me tidings
of my dear and true wife. And not one word will these demented rascals let me hear with their
senseless clamour.'

'Berenger! You here, my boy!' exclaimed Sir Marmaduke, more amazed by this than all the rest.

'He touches him--he holds him! Ah! will no one tear him away?' screamed Lady Thistlewood. Nor
would Spinks have been slow in obeying her if Sir Marmaduke had not swung his substantial form
to the ground, and stepping up to the prisoner, rudely clawed on one side by Spinks, and affectionately
grasped on the other side by Berenger, shouted--

'Let go, both!' does he speak English? Peace, dame! If the lad be bewitched, it is the right
way. He looks like the other man. Eh, lad, what does your friend say for himself?'

'Sir,' said Berenger, interpreting Mericour's words as they were spoken, 'he has been robbed
and misused at sea by Montgomery's pirate crews. He fled from court for the religion's sake;
he met her--my wife' (the voice was scarcely intelligible, so tremulously was it spoken), 'in
hiding among the Huguenots--he brings a letter and a token from her to my mother.'

'Ha! And you know him? You avouch him to be what he represents himself?'

'I knew him at court. I know him well. Father, make these fellows cease their insults! I have
heard nothing yet. See here!' holding out what Mericour had put into his hand; 'this you cannot
doubt, mother.'

'Parted the pearls! Ah, the little minx!' cried the lady, as she recognized the jewels.

'I thought he had been robbed?' added Sir Marmaduke.

'The gentleman doubts?' said Mericour, catching some of the words. 'He should know that what
is confided in a French gentleman is only taken from him with his life. Much did I lose; but
the pearl I kept hidden in my mouth.'

Therewith he produced the letter. Lady Thistlewood pronounced that no power on earth should
induce her to open it, and drew off herself and her little girls to a safe distance from the
secret poison she fancied it contained; while Sir Marmaduke was rating the constables for taking
advantage of his absence to interpret the Queen's Vagrant Act in their own violent fashion;
ending, however, by sending them round to the buttery-hatch to drink the young Lord's health.
For the messeger, the good knight heartily grasped his hand, welcoming him and thanking him
for having 'brought comfort to you poor lad's heart.'

But there Sir Marmaduke paused, doubting whether the letter had indeed brought comfort; for
Berenger, who had seized on it, when it was refused by his mother, was sitting under the tree--turning
away indeed, but not able to conceal that his tears were gushing down like rain. The anxious
exclamation of his step-father roused him at length, but he scarce found power or voice to
utter, as he thrust the letter into the knight's hand, 'Ah! see what has she not suffered for
me! me, whom you would have had believed her faithless!'

He then grasped his friend's arm, and with him disappeared into the house, leaving Sir Marmaduke
holding the letter in a state of the utmost bewilderment, and calling by turns on his wife
and daughter to read and explain it to him.

And as Lucy read the letter, with her mother could not yet prevail on herself to touch, she
felt at each word more grateful to the good Aunt Cecily, whose influence had taught her always
to view Berenger as a brother, and not to condemn unheard the poor young wife. If she had not
been thus guarded, what distress might not this day of joy to Berenger have brought to Lucy!
Indeed, Lady Thistlewood was vexed enough as it was, and ready to carry her incredulity to
the most inconsistent lengths. 'It was all a trick for getting the poor boy back, that they
might make an end of him altogether. Tell her they thought him dead.--'Tilley-valley! It was
a mere attempt on her own good-nature, to get a little French impostor on her hands. Let Sir
Duke look well to it, and take care that her poor boy was not decoyed among them. The Frenchman
might be cutting his throat at that moment! Where was he? Had Sir Duke been so lost as to let
them out of sight together? No one had either pity or prudence now that her poor father was
gone;' and she began to weep.

'No great fear on that score, dame,' laughed the knight. 'Did you not hear the lad shouting
for 'Phil, Phil!' almost in a voice like old times? It does one good to hear it.'

Just at twilight, Berenger came down the steps, conducting a graceful gentleman in black, to
whom Lady Thistlewood's instinct impelled her to make a low courtesy, before Berenger had said,
'Madam, allow me to present to you my friend, the Abbe de Mericour.'

'Is it the same?' whispered Bessie to Annora. 'Surely he is translated!'

'Only into Philip's old mourning suit. I know it by the stain on the knee.

'Then it is translated too. Never did it look so well on Philip! See, our mother is quite gracious
to him; she speaks to him as though he were some noble visitor to my Lord.'

Therewith Sir Marmaduke came forward, shook Mericour with all his might by the hand, shouted
to him his hearty thanks for the good he had done his poor lad and assured him of a welcome
from the very bottom of his heart. The good knight would fain have kept both Berenger and his
friend at the Manor, but Berenger was far too impatient to carry home his joy, and only begged
the loan of a horse for Mericour. For himself, he felt as if fatigue or dejection would never
touch him again, and he kissed his mother and his sisters, including Lucy, all round, with
an effusion of delight.

'Is that indeed your step-father?' said Mericour, as they rode away together. 'And the young
man, is he your half-brother?'

'Brother wholly in dear love,' said Berenger; 'no blood relation. The little girls are my mother's
children.'

'Ah! so large a family all one? All at home? None in convents?'

'We have no convents.'

'Ah, no, but all at home! All at peace! This is a strange place, your England.'

CHAPTER XXII. DEPARTURE

             It is my mistress!
     Since she is living, let the time run on
         To good or bad.--CYMBELINE

Mericour found the welcome at Hurst Walwyn kindly and more polished than that at Combe Manor.
He was more readily understood, and found himself at his natural element. Lord Walwyn, in especial,
took much notice of him, and conversed with him long and earnestly; while Berenger, too happy
and too weary to exert himself to say many words, sat as near Cecily as he could, treating
her as though she, who had never contradicted in his trust in Eustacie, were the only person
who could worthily share his infinite relief, peace, and thankfulness.

Lord Walwyn said scarcely anything to his grandson that night, only when Berenger, as usual,
bent his knee to ask his blessing on parting for the night, he said, gravely, 'Son, I am glad
of your joy; I fear me you have somewhat to pardon your grandsire. Come to my library so soon
as morning prayers be over; we will speak then. Not now, my dear lad,' he added, as Berenger,
with tears in his eyes, kissed his hand, and would have begun; 'you are too much worn and spent
to make my dear ears hear. Sleep, and take my blessing with you.'

It was a delight to see the young face freed from the haggard, dejected expression that had
been sadder than the outward wound; and yet it was so questionable how far the French connection
was acceptable to the family, that when Berenger requested Mr. Adderley to make mention of
the mercy vouch-safed to him in the morning devotions, the chaplain bowed, indeed, but took
care to ascertain that his so doing would be agreeable to my Lord and my Lady.

He found that if Lady Walwyn was still inclined to regret that the Frenchwoman was so entirely
a wife, and thought Berenger had been very hasty and imprudent, yet that the old Lord was chiefly
distressed at the cruel injustice he had so long been doing this poor youth thing. A strong
sense of justice, and long habit of dignified self-restraint, alone prevented Lord Walwyn from
severely censuring Mr. Adderley for misrepresentations; but the old nobleman recollected that
Walsingham had been in the same story, and was too upright to visit his own vexation on the
honestly-mistaken tutor.

However, when Berenger made his appearance in the study, looking as if not one right, but weeks,
had been spent in recovering health and spirit, the old man's first word was a gentle rebuke
for his having been left unaware of how far matters had gone; but he cut short the attempted
reply, but saying he knew it was chiefly owing to his own over-hasty conclusion, and fear of
letting his grandson injure himself by vainly discussing the subject. Now, however, he examined
Berenger closely on all the proceedings Paris and at Montpipeau, and soon understood that the
ceremony had been renewed, ratifying the vows taken in infancy. The old statesman's face cleared
up at once; for, as he explained, he had now no anxieties as to the validity of the marriage
by English law, at least, in spite of the decree from Rome, which, as he pointed out to his
grandson, was wholly contingent on the absence of subsequent consent, since the parties had
come to an age for free-will. Had he known of this, the re-marriage, he said, he should certainly
have been less supine. Why had Berenger been silent?

'I was commanded, sir. I fear I have transgressed the command by mentioning it now. I must
pray you to be secret.'

'Secret, foolish lad. Know you not that the rights of your wife and your children rest upon
it?' and as the change in Berenger's looks showed that he had not comprehended the full importance
of the second ceremony as nullifying the papal sentence, which could only quash the first on
the ground of want of mutual consent, he proceeded, 'Command, quotha? Who there had any right
to command you, boy?'

'Only one, sir.'

'Come, this no moment for lover's folly. It was not the girl, then? Then it could no other
than the miserable King--was it so?'

'Yes, sir,' said Berenger. 'He bade me as king, and requested me as the friend who gave her
to me. I could do no otherwise, and I thought it would be but a matter of a few days, and that
our original marriage was the only important one.'

'Have you any parchment to prove it?'

'No, sir. It passed but as a ceremony to satisfy the Queen's scruples ere she gave my wife
to me to take home. I even think the King was displeased at her requiring it.'

'Was Mr. Sidney a witness?'

'No, sir. None was present, save the King and Queen, her German countess, and the German priest.'

'The day?'

'Lammas-day.'

'The 1st of August of the year of grace 1572. I will write to Walsingham to obtain the testimony,
if possible, of king or of priest; but belike they will deny it all. It was part of the trick.
Shame upon it that a king should dig pits for so small a game as you, my poor lad!'

'Verily, my Lord,' said Berenger, 'I think the King meant us kindly, and would gladly have
sped us well away. Methought he felt his bondage bitterly, and would fain have dared to be
a true king. Even at the last, he bade me to his garde-robe, and all there were unhurt.'

'And wherefore obeyed you not?'

'The carouse would have kept me too late for our flight.'

'King's behests may not lightly be disregarded,' said the old courtier, with a smile. 'However,
since he showed such seeming favour to you, surely you might send a petition to him privately,
through Sir Francis Walsingham, to let the priest testify to your renewal of contract, engaging
not to use it to his detriment in France.'

'I will do so, sir. Meanwhile,' he added, as one who felt he had earned a right to be heard
in his turn, 'I have your permission to hasten to bring home my wife?'

Lord Walwyn was startled at this demand from one still so far from recovered as Berenger. Even
this talk, eager as the youth was, had not been carried on without much difficulty, repetitions,
and altered phrases, when he could not pronounce distinctly enough to be understood and the
effort brought lines of pain into his brow. He could take little solid food, had hardly any
strength for walking or riding; and, though all his wounds were whole, except that one unmanageable
shot in the mouth, he looked entirely unfit to venture on a long journey in the very country
that had sent him home a year before scarcely alive. Lord Walwyn had already devised what he
thought a far more practicable arrangement; namely, to send Mr. Adderley and some of my Lady's
women by sea, under the charge of Master Hobbs, a shipmaster at Weymouth, who traded with Bordeaux
for wine, and could easily put in near La Sablerie, and bring off the lady and child, and,
if she wished it, the pastor to whom such a debt of gratitude was owing.

Berenger was delighted with the notion of the sea rather than the land journey; but he pointed
out at once that this would remove all objection to his going in person. He had often been
out whole nights with the fishermen, and knew that a sea-voyage would be better for his health
than anything,--certainly better than pining and languishing at home, as he had done for months.
He could not bear to think of separation from Eustacie an hour longer than needful; nay, she
had been cruelly entreated enough already; and as long as he could keep his feet, it was absolutely
due to her that he should not let others, instead of himself, go in search of her. It would
be almost death to him to stay at home.

Lord Walwyn looked at the pallid, wasted face, with all its marks of suffering and intense
eagerness of expression, increased by the difficulty of utterance and need of subduing agitation.
He felt that the long-misunderstood patience and endurance had earned something; and he knew,
too, that for all his grandson's submission and respect, the boy, as a husband and father,
had rights and duties that would assert themselves manfully if opposed. It was true that the
sea-voyage obviated many difficulties, and it was better to consent with a good grace than
drive one hitherto so dutiful to rebellion. He did then consent, and was rewarded by the lightning
flash of joy and gratitude in the bright blue eyes, and the fervent pressure and kiss of his
hand, as Berenger exclaimed, 'Ah! sir, Eustacie will be such a daughter to you. You should
have seen how the Admiral liked her!'

The news of Lord Walwyn's consent raised much commotion in the family. Dame Annora was sure
her poor son would be murdered outright this time, and that nobody cared because he was only
HER son; and she strove hard to stir up Sir Marmaduke to remonstrate with her father; but the
good knight had never disputed a judgment of 'my Lord's' in his whole life, and had even received
his first wife from his hands, when forsaken by the gay Annora. So she could only ride over
the Combe, be silenced by her father, as effectually as if Jupiter had nodded, and bewail and
murmur to her mother till she lashed Lady Walwyn up into finding every possible reason why
Berenger should and must sail. Then she went home, was very sharp with Lucy, and was reckoned
by saucy little Nan to have nineteen times exclaimed 'Tilley-valley' in the course of one day.

The effect upon Philip was a vehement insistence on going with his brother. He was sure no
one else would see to Berry half as well; and as to letting Berry go to be murdered again without
him, he would not hear of it; he must go, he would not stay at home; he should not study; no,
no, he should be ready to hang himself for vexation, and thinking what they were doing to his
brother. And thus he extorted from his kind-hearted father an avowal that he should be easier
a bout the lad if Phil were there, and that he might go, provided Berry would have him, and
my Lord saw no objection. The first point was soon settled; and as to the second, there was
no reason at all that Philip should not go where his brother did. In fact, excepting for Berenger's
state of health, there was hardly any risk about the matter. Master Hobbs, to whom Philip rode
down ecstatically to request him to come and speak to my Lord, was a stout, honest, experienced
seaman, who was perfectly at home in the Bay of Biscay, and had so strong a feudal feeling
for the house of Walwyn, that he placed himself and his best ship, the THROSTLE, entirely at
his disposal. The THROSTLE was a capital sailer, and carried arms quite sufficient in English
hands to protect her against Algerine corsairs or Spanish pirates. He only asked for a week
to make her cabin ready for the reception of a lady, and this time was spent in sending a post
to London, to obtain for Berenger the permit from the Queen, and the passport from the French
Ambassador, without which he could not safely have gone; and, as a further precaution, letters
were requested from some of the secret agents of the Huguenots to facilitate his admission
into La Sablerie.

In the meantime, poor Mr. Adderley had submitted meekly to the decree that sentenced him to
weeks of misery on board the THROSTLE, but to his infinite relief, an inspection of the cabins
proved the space so small, that Berenger represented to him grandfather that the excellent
tutor would be only an incumbrance to himself and every one else, and that with Philip he should
need no one. Indeed, he had made such a start into vigour and alertness during the last few
days that there was far less anxiety about him, though with several sighs for poor Osbert.
Cecily initiated Philip into her simple rules for her patient's treatment in case of the return
of his more painful symptoms. The notion of sending female attendants for Eustacie was also
abandoned: her husband's presence rendered them unnecessary, or they might be procured at La
Sablerie; and thus it happened that the only servants whom Berenger was to take with him were
Humfrey Holt and John Smithers, the same honest fellows whose steadiness had so much conduced
to his rescue at Paris.

Claude de Mericour had in the meantime been treated as an honoured guest at Combe Walwyn, and
was in good esteem with its master. He would have set forth at once on his journey to Scotland,
but that Lord Walwyn advised him to wait and ascertain the condition of his relatives there
before throwing himself on them. Berenger had, accordingly, when writing to Sidney by the messenger
above mentioned, begged him to find out from Sir Robert Melville, the Scottish Envoy, all he
could about the family whose designation he wrote down at a venture from Mericour's lips.

Sidney returned a most affectionate answer, saying that he had never been able to believe the
little shepherdess a traitor and was charmed that she had proved herself a heroine; he should
endeavour to greet her with all his best powers as a poet, when she should brighten the English
court; but his friend, Master Spenser, alone was fit to celebrate such constancy. As to M.
l'Abbe de Mericour's friends, Sir Robert Melville had recognized their name at once, and had
pronounced them to be fierce Catholics and Queensmen, so sorely pressed by the Douglases, that
it was believed they would soon fly the country altogether; and Sidney added, what Lord Walwyn
had already said, that to seek Scotland rather than France as a resting-place in which to weigh
between Calvinism and Catholicism, was only trebly hot and fanatical. His counsel was that
M. de Mericour should so far conform himself to the English Church as to obtain admission to
one of the universities, and, through his uncle of Leicester, he could obtain for him an opening
at Oxford, where he might fully study the subject.

There was much to incline Mericour to accept this counsel. He had had much conversation with
Mr. Adderley, and had attended his ministrations in the chapel, and both satisfied him far
better than what he had seen among the French Calninists; and the peace and family affection
of the two houses were like a new world to him. But he had not yet made up his mind to that
absolute disavowal of his own branch of the Church, which alone could have rendered him eligible
for any foundation at Oxford. His attainments in classics would, Mr. Adderley thought, reach
such a standard as to gain one of the very few scholarships open to foreigners; and his noble
blood revolted at becoming a pensioner of Leicester's, or of any other nobleman.

Lord Walwyn, upon this, made an earnest offer of his hospitality, and entreated the young man
to remain at Hurst Walwyn till the return of Berenger and Philip, during which time he might
study under the directions of Mr. Adderley, and come to a decision whether to seek reconciliation
with his native Church and his brother, or to remain in England. In this latter case, he might
perhaps accompany both the youths to Oxford, for, in spite of Berenger's marriage, his education
was still not supposed to be complete. And when Mericour still demurred with reluctance to
become a burden on the bounty of the noble house, he was reminded gracefully of the debt of
gratitude that the family owed to him for the relief he had brought to Berenger; and, moreover,
Dame Annora giggled out that, 'if he would teach Nan and Bess to speak and read French and
Italian, it would be worth something to them.' The others of the family would have hushed up
this uncalled-for proposal; but Mericour caught at it as the most congenial mode of returning
the obligation. Every morning he undertook to walk or ride over to the Manor, and there gave
his lessons to the young ladies, with whom he was extremely popular. He was a far more brilliant
teacher than Lucy, and ten thousand times preferable to Mr. Adderley, who had once begun to
teach Annora her accidence with lamentable want of success.

CHAPTER XXIII. THE EMPTY CRADLE

            Eager to know
     The worst, and with that fatal certainty
      To terminate intolerable dread,
      He spurred his courser forward--all his fears
      Too surely are fulfilled.--SOUTHEY

Contrary winds made the voyage of the THROSTLE much more tardy than had been reckoned on by
Berenger's impatience; but hope was before him, and he often remembered his days in the little
vessel as much happier than he had known them to be at the time.

It was in the calm days of right October that Captain Hobbs at length was putting into the
little harbour nearest to La Sablerie. Berenger, on that morning, had for the first time been
seized by a fit of anxiety as to the impression his face would make, with its terrible purple
scar, great patch, and bald forehead, and had brought out a little black velvet mask, called
a tour de nez, often used in riding to protect the complexion, intending to prepare Eustacie
for his disfigurement. He had fastened on a carnation-coloured sword-knot, would a scarf of
the same colour across his shoulder, clasped a long ostrich plume into his broad Spanish hat,
and looked out his deeply-fringed Spanish gloves; and Philip was laughing merrily, not to say
rudely, at him, for trying to deck himself out so bravely.

'See, Master Hobbs,' cried the boy in his high spirits, as he followed his brother on deck,
'you did not know you had so fine a gallant on board. Here be braveries for my Lady.'

'Hush, Phil,' broke in Berenger, who had hitherto taken all the raillery in perfect good part.
'What is amiss, Master Hobbs?'

'I cannot justly say, sir,' returned Master Hobbs, without taking his gaze off the coast, 'but
by yonder banks and creeks this should be the Sables d'Olonne; and I do not see the steeple
of La Sablerie, which has always been the landmark for the harbour of St. Julien.'

'What do you understand by that?' asked Berenger, more struck by his manner than his words.

'Well, sir, if I am right, a steeple that has stood three or four hundred years does not vanish
out of sight like a cloud of smoke for nothing. I may be lightning, to be sure; or the Protestants
may have had it down for Popery; but methinks they would have too much Christian regard for
poor mariners than to knock down the only landmark on this coast till you come to Nissard spire.'
Then he hailed the man at the mast-head, demanding if he saw the steeple of La Sablerie. 'No,
no, sir.' But as other portions of the land became clearer, there was no doubt that the THROSTLE
was right in her bearings; so the skipper gave orders to cast anchor and lower a boat. The
passengers would have pressed him with inquiries as to what he thought the absence of his landmark
could portend; but he hurried about, and shouted orders, with the deaf despotism of a nautical
commander; and only when all was made ready, turned round and said, 'Now, sir, maybe you had
best let me go ashore first, and find out how the land lies.'

'Never!' said Berenger, in an agony of impatience.

'I thought so,' said the captain. 'Well, then, sir, are your fellows ready? Armed? All right.'

So Berenger descended to the boat, followed by Philip; next came the captain, and then the
two serving-men. Six of the crew were ready to row them to the shore, and were bidden by their
captain to return at once to the vessel, and only return on a signal from him. the surging
rush of intense anxiety, sure to precede the destined moment of the consummation of hope long
deferred, kept Berenger silent, choked by something between fear and prayer; but Philip, less
engrossed, asked Master Hobbs if it were not strange that none of the inhabitants of the squalid
little huts on the shore had not put out to greet them in some of the boats that were drawn
up on the beach.

'Poor wretches,' said Hobbs; 'they scarce know friend from foe, and are slow to run their heads
into the lion's mouth. Strange fellows have the impudence to sail under our flag at times.'

However, as they neared the low, flat, sandy shore, a few red caps peeped out at the cottage-doors,
and then, apparently gaining confidence from the survey, some wiry, active figures appeared,
and were hailed by Hobbs. His Bordeaux trade had rendered him master of the coast language;
and a few incomprehensible shouts between him and the natives resulted in a line being thrown
to them, and the boat dragged as near as possible to the landing-place, when half a dozen ran
up, splashing with their bare legs, to offer their shoulders for the transport of the passengers,
both of whom were seized upon before they were aware, Philip struggling with all his might,
till a call from Captain Hobbs warned him to resign himself; and then he became almost helpless
with laughter at the figure cut by the long-legged Berenger upon a small fisherman's back.

They were landed. Could it be that Berenger was only two miles--only half an hour's walk form
Eustacie? The bound his heart gave as he touched the shore seemed to stifle him. He could not
believe it. Yet he knew how fully he had believed it, the next moment, when he listened to
what the fishermen were saying to Captain Hobbs.

'Did Monsieur wish to go to La Sablerie? Ah! then he did not know what had happened. The soldiers
had been there; there had been a great burning. They had been out in their boats at sea, but
they had seen the sky red--red as a furnace, all night; and the steeple was down. Surely, Monsieur
had missed the steeple that was a guide to all poor seafarers; and now they had to go all the
way to Brancour to sell their fish.'

'And the townspeople?' Hobbs asked.

'Ah! poor things; 'twas pity of them, for they were honest folk to deal with, even if they
were heretics. They loved fish at other seasons if not in Lent; and it seemed but a fair return
to go up and bury as many of them as were not burnt to nothing in their church; and Dom Colombeau,
the good priest of Nissard, has said it was a pious work; and he was a saint, if any one was.'

'Alack, sir,' said Hobbs, laying his hand on the arm of Berenger, who seemed neither to have
breathed nor moved while the man was speaking: 'I feared that there had been some such bloody
work when I missed the steeple. But take heart yet: your lady is very like to have been out
of the way. We might make for La Rochelle, and there learn!' Then, again to the fisherman,
'None escaped, fellow?'

'Not one,' replied the man. 'They say that one of the great folks was in a special rage with
them for sheltering the lady he should have wedded, but who had broken convent and turned heretic;
and they had victualled Montgomery's pirates too.'

'And the lady?' continued Hobbs, ever trying to get a more supporting hold of his young charge,
in case the rigid tension of his limbs should suddenly relax.'

'I cannot tell, sir. I am a poor fisher; but I could guide you to the place where old Gillot
is always poking about. He listened to their preachings, and knows more than we do.'

'Let us go,' said Berenger, at once beginning to stride along in his heavy boots through the
deep sand. Philip, who had hardly understood a word of the patois, caught hold of him, and
begged to be told what had happened; but Master Hobbs drew the boy off, and explained to him
and to the two men what were the dreadful tidings that had wrought such a change in Berenger's
demeanour. The way over the shifting sands was toilsome enough to all the rest of the party;
but Berenger scarcely seemed to feel the deep plunge at every step as they almost ploughed
their way along for the weary two miles, before a few green bushes and half-choked trees showed
that they were reaching the confines of the sandy waste. Berenger had not uttered a word the
whole time, and his silence hushed the others. The ground began to rise, grass was seen still
struggling to grow, and presently a large straggling mass of black and gray ruins revealed
themselves, with the remains of a once well-trodden road leading to them. But the road led
to a gate-way choked by a fallen jamb and barred door, and the guide led them round the ruins
of the wall to the opening where the breach had been. The sand was already blowing in, and
no doubt veiled much; for the streets were scarcely traceable through remnants of houses more
or less dilapidated, with shreds of broken or burnt household furniture within them.

'Ask him for la rue des Trois Fees,' hoarsely whispered Berenger.

The fisherman nodded, but soon seemed at fault; and an old man, followed by a few children,
soon appearing, laden with piece of fuel, he appealed to him as Father Gillot, and asked whether
he could find the street. The old man seemed at home in the ruins, and led the way readily.
'Did he know the Widow Laurent's house?'

'Mademoiselle [footnote: This was the title of bourgeoise wives, for many years, in France.]
Laurent! Full well he knew her; a good pious soul was she, always ready to die for the truth,'
he added, as he read sympathy in the faces round; 'and no doubt she had witnessed a good confession.'

'Knew he aught of the lady she had lodged?'

'He knew nothing of ladies. Something he had heard of the good widow having sheltered that
shining light, Isaac Gardon, quenched, no doubt, in the same destruction; but for his part,
he had a daughter in one of the isles out there, who always sent for him if she suspected danger
here on the mainland, and he had only returned to his poor farm a day or two after Michael-mas.'
So saying, he led them to the threshold of a ruinous building, in the very centre, as it were,
of the desolation, and said, 'That, gentlemen, is where the poor honest widow kept her little
shop.'

Black, burnt, dreary, lay the hospitable abode. The building had fallen, but the beams of the
upper floor had fallen aslant, so as to shelter a portion of the lower room, where the red-tile
pavement, the hearth with the gray ashes of the harmless home-fire, some unbroken crocks, a
chain, and a sabot, were still visible, making the contrast of dreariness doubly mournful.

Berenger had stepped over the threshold, with his hat in his hand, as if the ruin were a sacred
place to him, and stood gazing in a transfixed, deadened way. The captain asked where the remains
were.

'Our people,' said the old man and the fisher, 'laid them by night in the earth near the church.'

Just then Berenger's gaze fell on something half hidden under the fallen timbers. He instantly
sprang forward, and used all his strength to drag it out in so headlong a manner that all the
rest hurried to prevent his reckless proceedings from bringing the heavy beams down on his
head. When brought to light, the object proved to be one of the dark, heavy, wooden cradles
used by the French peasantry, shining with age, but untouched by fire.

'Look in,' Berenger signed to Philip, his own eyes averted, his mouth set.

The cradle was empty, totally empty, save for a woolen covering, a little mattress, and a string
of small yellow shells threaded.

Berenger held out his hand, grasped the baby-play thing convulsively, then dropped upon his
knees, clasping his hands over his ashy face, the string of shells still wound among his fingers.
Perhaps he had hitherto hardly realized the existence of his child, and was solely wrapped
up in the thought of his wife; but the wooden cradle, the homely toy, stirred up fresh depths
of feelings; he saw Eustacie wither tender sweetness as a mother, he beheld the little likeness
of her in the cradle; and oh! that this should have been the end! Unable to repress a moan
of anguish from a bursting heart, he laid his face against the senseless wood, and kissed it
again and again, then lay motionless against it save for the long-drawn gasps and sobs that
shook his frame. Philip, torn to the heart, would have almost forcibly drawn him away; but
Master Hobbs, with tears running down his honest cheeks, withheld the boy. 'Don't ye, Master
Thistlewood, 'twill do him good. Poor young gentleman! I know how it was when I came home and
found our first little lad, that we had thought so much on, had been take. But then he was
safe laid in his own churchyard, and his mother was there to meet me; while your poor brother---Ah!
God comfort him!'

'Le pauvre Monsieur!' exclaimed the old peasant, struck at the sight of his grief, 'was it
then his child? And he, no doubt, lying wounded elsewhere while God's hand was heavy on this
place. Yet he might hear more. They said the priest came down and carried off the little ones
to be bred up in convents.'

'Who?--where?' asked Berenger, raising his head as if catching at a straw in this drowning
of all his hopes.

''Tis true,' added the fisherman. 'It was the holy priest of Nissard, for he send down to St.
Julien for a woman to nurse the babes.'

'To Nissard, then,' said Berenger, rising.

'It is but a chance,' said the old Huguenot; 'many of the innocents were with their mothers
in yonder church. Better for them to perish like the babes of Bethlehem than to be bred up
in the house of Baal; but perhaps Monsieur is English, and if so he might yet obtain the child.
Yet he must not hope too much.'

'No, for there was many a little corpse among those we buried,' said the fisher. 'Will the
gentleman see the place?'

'Oh, no!' exclaimed Philip, understanding the actions, and indeed many of the words; 'this
place will kill him.'

'To the grave,' said Berenger, as if he heard nothing.

'See,' added Philip, 'there are better things than graves,' and he pointed to a young green
sucker of a vine, which, stimulated by the burnt soil, had shot up between the tiles of the
floor. 'Look, there is hope to meet you even here.'

Berenger merely answered by gathering a leaf from the vine and putting it into his bosom; and
Philip, whom only extreme need could have thus inspired, perceived that he accepted it as the
augury of hope.

Berenger turned to bid the two men bear the cradle with them, and then followed the old man
out into the PLACE, once a pleasant open paved square, now grass-grown and forlorn. On one
side lay the remains of the church. The Huguenots had been so predominant at La Sablerie as
to have engrossed the building, and it had therefore shared the general destruction, and lay
in utter, desolate ruin, a mere shell, and the once noble spire, the mariner's guiding star,
blown up with gun-cruel that ever desolated the country. Beyond lay the burial-ground, in unspeakable
dreariness. The crossed of the Catholic dead had been levelled by the fanaticism of the Huguenots,
and though a great dominant stone cross raised on steps had been re-erected, it stood uneven,
tottering and desolate among nettles, weeds, and briers. There seemed to have been a few deep
trenches dug to receive the bodies of the many victims of the siege, and only rudely and slightly
filled in with loose earth, on which Philippe treading had nearly sunk in, so much to his horror
that he could hardly endure the long contemplation in which his brother stood gazing on the
dismal scene, as if to bear it away with him. Did the fair being he had left in a king's palace
sleep her last sleep her last sleep amid the tangled grass, the thistles and briers that grew
so close that it was hardly possible to keep from stumbling over them, where all memorials
of friend or foe were alike obliterated? Was a resting-place among these nameless graves the
best he could hope for the wife whose eyes he had hoped by this time would be answering his
own--was this her shelter from foe, from sword, famine, and fire?

A great sea-bird, swooping along with broad wings and wild wailing cry, completed the weird
dismay that had seized on Philip, and clutching at his brother's cloak, he exclaimed, 'Berry,
Berry, let us be gone, or we shall both be distraught!'

Berenger yielded passively, but when the ruins of the town had been again crossed, and the
sad little party, after amply rewarding the old man, were about to return to St. Julien, he
stood still, saying, 'Which is the way to Nissard?' and, as the men pointed to the south, he
added, 'Show me the way thither.'

Captain Hobbs now interfered. He knew the position of Nissard, among dangerous sandbanks, between
which a boat could only venture at the higher tides, and by daylight. To go the six miles thither
at present would make it almost impossible to return to the THROSTLE that night, and it was
absolutely necessary that he at least should do this. He therefore wished the young gentleman
to return with him on board, sleep there, and be put ashore at Nissard as soon as it should
be possible in the morning. But Berenger shook his head. He could not rest for a moment till
he had ascertained the fate of Eustacie's child. Action alone could quench the horror of what
he had recognized as her own lot, and the very pursuit of this one thread of hope seemed needful
to him to make it substantial. He would hear of nothing but walking at once to Nissard; and
Captain Hobbs, finding it impossible to debate the point with one so dazed and crushed with
grief, and learning from the fishermen that not only was the priest one of the kindest and
most hospitable men living, but that there was a tolerable caberet not far from the house,
selected from the loiterers who had accompanied them from St. Julien a trustworthy-looking,
active lad as a guide, and agreed with the high tide on the morrow, either to concert measures
for obtaining possession of the lost infant, or, if all were in vain, to fetch them off. Then
he, with the mass of stragglers from St. Julien, went off direct for the coast, while the two
young brothers, their two attendants, and the fishermen, turned southwards along the summit
of the dreary sandbanks.

CHAPTER XXIV. THE GOOD PRIEST OF NISSARD

Till at the set of sun all tracks and ways In darkness lay enshrouded. And e'en thus The utmost
limit of the great profound At length we reach'd, where in dark gloom and mist Cimmeria's people
and their city lie Enveloped ever.--ODYSSEY (MUSGROVE)

The October afternoon had set in before the brothers were the way to Nissard; and in spite
of Berenger's excited mood, the walk through the soft, sinking sand could not be speedily performed.
It was that peculiar sand-drift which is the curse of so many coasts, slowly, silently, irresistibly
flowing, blowing, creeping in, and gradually choking all vegetation and habitation. Soft and
almost impalpable, it lay heaped in banks yielding as air, and yet far more than deep enough
to swallow up man and horse. Nay, tops of trees, summits of chimneys, told what it had already
swallowed. The whole scene far and wide presented nothing but the lone, tame undulations, liable
to be changed by every wind, and solitary beyond expression--a few rabbits scudding hither
and thither, or a sea-gull floating with white, ghostly wings in the air, being the only living
things visible. On the one hand a dim, purple horizon showed that the inhabited country lay
miles inland; on the other lay the pale, gray, misty expanse of sea, on which Philip's eyes
could lovingly discern the THROSTLE'S masts.

That view was Philip's chief comfort. The boy was feeling more eerie and uncomfortable than
ever he had been before as he plodded along, sinking deep with every step almost up to his
ankles in the sand, on which the bare-footed guide ran lightly, and Berenger, though sinking
no less deeply, seemed insensible to all inconveniences. This desolateness was well-nigh unbearable;
no one dared to speak while Berenger thus moved on in the unapproachableness of his great grief,
and Philip presently began to feel a dreamy sense that they had all thus been moving for years,
that this was the world's end, the land of shadows, and that his brother was a ghost already.
Besides vague alarms like these, there was the dismal English and Protestant prejudice in full
force in Philip's mind, which regarded the resent ground as necessarily hostile, and all Frenchmen,
above all French priests, as in league to cut off every Englishman and Protestant. He believed
himself in a country full of murderers, and was walking on with the one determination that
his brother should not rush on danger without him, and that the Popish rogues should be kept
in mind that there was an English ship in sight. Alas! that consolation was soon lost, for
a dense gray mist was slowly creeping in from the sea, and blotted out the vessel, then gathered
in closer, and obliterated all landmarks. Gradually it turned to a heavy rain, and about the
same time the ground on which they walked became no longer loose sand-hills, but smooth and
level. It was harder likewise from the wet, and this afforded better walking, but there lay
upon it fragments of weed and shell, as though it were liable to be covered by the sea, and
there was a low, languid plash of the tide, which could not be seen. Twilight began to deepen
the mist. The guide was evidently uneasy; he sidled up to Philip, and began to ask what he--hitherto
obstinately deaf and contemptuous to French--was very slow to comprehend. At last he found
it was a question how near it was to All Soul's day; and then came an equally amazing query
whether the gentlemen's babe had been baptized; for it appeared that on All Soul's day the
spirits of unchristened infants had the power of rising from the sands in a bewildering mist,
and leading wayfarers into the sea. And the poor guide, white and drenched, vowed he never
would have undertaken this walk if he had only thought of this. These slaughters of heretics
must so much have augmented the number of the poor little spirits; and no doubt Monsieur would
be specially bewildered by one so nearly concerned with him. Philip, half frightened, could
not help stepping forward and pulling Berenger by the cloak to make him aware of this strange
peril; but he did not get much comfort. 'Baptized? Yes; you know she was, by the old nurse.
Let me alone, I say. I would follow her wherever she called me, the innocent, and glad--the
sooner the better.'

And he shook his brother off with a sadness and impatience so utterly unapproachable, that
Philip, poor boy, could only watch his tall figure in the wide cloak and slouched hat, stalking
on ever more indistinct in the gloom, while his much confused mind tried to settle the theological
point whether the old nurse's baptism were valid enough to prevent poor little Berangere from
becoming one of these mischievous deluders; and all this was varied by the notion of Captain
Hobbs picking up their corpses on the beach, and of Sir Marmaduke bewailing his only son.

At last a strange muffled sound made him start in the dead silence, but the guide hailed the
sound with a joyful cry---

'Hola! Blessings on Notre-Dame and holy Father Colombeau, now are we saved!' and on Philip's
hasty interrogation, he explained that it was from the bells of Nissard, which the good priest
always caused to be rung during these sea-fogs, to disperse all evil beings, and guide the
wanderers.

The guide strode on manfully, as the sound became clearer and nearer, and Philip was infinitely
relived to be free from all supernatural anxieties, and to have merely to guard against the
wiles of a Polish priest, a being almost as fabulously endowed in his imagination as poor little
Berangere's soul could be in that of the fisherman.

The drenching Atlantic mist had wetted them all to the skin, and closed round them so like
a solid wall, that they had almost lost sight of each other, and had nothing but the bells'
voices to comfort them, till quite suddenly there was a light upon the mist, a hazy reddish
gleam--a window seemed close to them. The guide, heartily thanking Our Lady and St. Julian,
knocked at a door, which opened at once into a warm, bright, superior sort of kitchen, where
a neatly-dressed elderly peasant woman exclaimed, 'Welcome, poor souls! Enter, then. Here,
good Father, are some bewildered creatures. Eh! wrecked are you, good folks, or lost in the fog?'

At the same moment there came from behind the screen that shut off the fire from the door,
a benignant-looking, hale old man in a cassock, with long white hair on his shoulders, and
a cheerful face, ruddy from sea-wind.

'Welcome, my friends,' he said. 'Thanks to the saints who have guided you safely. You are drenched.
Come to the fire at once.'

And as they moved on into the full light of the fire and the rude iron lamp by which he had
been reading, and he saw the draggled plumes and other appurtenances that marked the two youths
as gentlemen, he added, 'Are you wrecked, Messieurs? We will do our poor best for your accommodation;'
and while both mechanically murmured a word of thanks, and removed their soaked hats, the good
man exclaimed, as he beheld Berenger's ashy face, with the sunken eyes and deep scars, 'Monsieur
should come to bed at once. He is apparently recovering from a severe wound. This way, sir;
Jolitte shall make you some hot tisane.'

'Wait, sir,' said Berenger, very slowly, and his voice sounding hollow from exhaustion; 'they
say that you can tell me of my child. Let me hear.'

'Monsieur's child!' exclaimed the bewildered curate, looking from him to Philip, and then to
the guide, who poured out a whole stream of explanation before Philip had arranged three words
of French.

'You hear, sir,' said Berenger, as the man finished: 'I came hither to seek my wife, the Lady
of Ribaumont.'

'Eh!' exclaimed the cure, 'do I then see M. le Marquis de Nid de Merle?'

'No!' cried Berenger; 'no, I am not that scelerat! I am her true husband, the Baron de Ribaumont.'

'The Baron de Ribaumont perished at the St. Bartholomew,' said the cure, fixing his eyes on
him, as though to confute an impostor.

'Ah, would that I had!' said Berenger. 'I was barely saved with the life that is but misery
now. I came to seek her--I found what you know. They told me that you saved the children. Ah,
tell me where mine is!--all that is left me.'

'A few poor babes I was permitted to rescue, but very few. But let me understand to whom I
speak,' he added, much perplexed. 'You, sir---'

'I am her husband, married at five years old--contract renewed last year. It was he whom you
call Nid de Merle who fell on me, and left me for dead. A faithful servant saved my life, but
I have lain sick in England till now, when her letter to my mother brought me to La Sablerie,
to find--to find THIS. Oh, sir, have pity on me! Tell me if you know anything of her, or if
you can give me her child.'

'The orphans I was able to save are--the boys at nurse here, the girls with the good nuns at
Lucon,' said the priest, with infinite pity in his look. 'Should you know it, sir?'

'I would--I should,' said Berenger. 'But it is a girl. Ah, would that it were here! But you--you,
sir--you know more than these fellows. Is there no--no hope of herself?'

'Alas! I fear I can give you none,' said the priest; 'but I will tell all I know; only I would
fain see you eat, rest, and be dried.'

'How can I?' gasped he, allowing himself, however, to sink into a chair; and the priest spoke:

'Perhaps you know, sir, that the poor lady fled from her friends, and threw herself upon the
Huguenots. All trace had been lost, when, at a banquet given by the mayor of Lucon, there appeared
some patisseries, which some ecclesiastic, who had enjoyed the hospitality of Bellaise, recognized
as peculiar to the convent there, where she had been brought up. They were presented to the
mayor by his friend, Bailli la Grasse, who had boasted of the excellent confitures of the heretic
pastor's daughter that lodged in the town of La Sablerie. The place was in disgrace for having
afforded shelter and supplies to Montgomery's pirate crews, and there were narrations of outrages
committed on Catholics. The army were enraged by their failure before La Rochelle; in effect,
it was resolved to make an example, when, on M. de Nid de Merle's summons, all knowledge of
the lady was denied. Is it possible that she was indeed not there?'

Berenger shook his head. 'She was indeed there,' he said, with an irrepressible groan. 'Was
there no mercy--none?'

'Ask not, sir,' said the compassionate priest; 'the flesh shrinks, though there may be righteous
justice. A pillaged town, when men are enraged, is like a place of devils unchained. I reached
it only after it had been taken by assault, when all was flame and blood. Ask me no more; it
would be worse for you to hear than me to tell,' he concluded, shuddering, but laying his hand
kindly on Berenger's arm. 'At least it is ended now and God is more merciful than men. Many
died by the bombs cast into to city, and she for whom you ask certainly fell not alive into
the hands of those who sought her. Take comfort, sir; there is One who watches and takes count
of our griefs. Sir, turning to Philip, 'this gentleman is too much spent with sorrow to bear
this cold and damp. Aid me, I entreat, to persuade him to lie down.'

Philip understood the priest's French far better than that of the peasants, and added persuasions
that Berenger was far too much exhausted and stunned to resist. To spend a night in a Popish
priest's house would once have seemed to Philip a shocking alternative, yet here he was, heartily
assisting in removing the wet garments in which his brother had sat only too long, and was
heartily relieved to lay him down in the priest's own bed, even though there was an image over
the head, which, indeed, the boy never saw. He only saw his brother turn away from the light
with a low, heavy moan, as if he would fain be left alone with his sorrow and his crushed hopes.

Nothing could be kinder than Dome Colombeau, the priest of Nissard. He saw to the whole of
his guests being put into some sort of dry habiliments before they sat round his table to eat
of the savoury mess in the great pot-au-feu, which had, since their arrival, received additional
ingredients, and moreover sundry villagers had crept into the house. Whenever the good Father
supped at home, any of his flock were welcome to drop in to enjoy his hospitability. After
a cup of hot cider round, they carried off the fisherman to ledge in one of their cottages.
Shake-downs were found for the others, and Philip, wondering what was to become of the good
host himself, gathered that he meant to spend such part of the night on the kitchen floor as
he did not pass in prayer in the church for the poor young gentleman, who was in such affliction.
Philip was not certain whether to resent this as an impertinence or an attack on their Protestant
principles; but he was not sure, either, that the priest was aware what was their religion,
and was still less certain of his own comprehension of these pious intentions: he decided that,
any way, it was better not to make a fool of himself. Still, the notion of the mischievousness
of priests was so rooted in his head, that he consulted Humfrey on the expedience of keeping
watch all night, but was sagaciously answered that 'these French rogues don't do any hurt unless
they be brought up to it, and the place was as safe as old Hurst.'

In fact, Philip's vigilance would have been strongly against nature. He never awoke till full
daylight and morning sun were streaming through the vine-leaves round the window, and then,
to his dismay, he saw that Berenger had left his bed, and was gone. Suspicions of foul play
coming over him in full force as he gazed round on much that he considered as 'Popish furniture,'
he threw on his clothes, and hastened to open the door, when, to his great relief, he saw Berenger
hastily writing at a table under the window, and Smithers standing by waiting for the billet.

'I am sending Smithers on board, to ask Hobbs to bring our cloak bags,' said Berenger, as his
brother entered. 'We must go on to Lucon.'

He spoke briefly and decidedly, and Philip was satisfied to see him quite calm and collected--white
indeed, and with the old haggard look, and the great scar very purple instead of red, which
was always a bad sign with him. He was not disposed to answer questions; he shortly said, 'He
had slept not less than usual,' which Philip knew meant very little; and he had evidently made
up his mind, and was resolved not to let himself give way. If his beacon of hope had been so
suddenly, frightfully quenched, he still was kept from utter darkness by straining his eyes
and forcing his steps to follow the tiny, flickering spark that remained.

The priest was at his morning mass; and so soon as Berenger had given his note to Smithers,
and sent him off with a fisherman to the THROSTLE, he took up his hat, and went out upon the
beach, that lay glistening in the morning sun, then turned straight towards the tall spire
of the church, with had been their last night's guide. Philip caught his cloak.

'You are never going there, Berenger?'

'Vex me not now,' was all the reply he got. 'There the dead and living meet together.'

'But, brother, they will take you for one of their own sort.'

'Let them.'

Philip was right that it was neither a prudent nor consistent proceeding, but Berenger had
little power of reflection, and his impulse at present bore him into the church belonging to
his native faith and land, without any defined felling, save that it was peace to kneel there
among the scattered worshippers, who came and went with their fish-baskets in their hands,
and to hear the low chant of the priest and his assistant from within the screen.

Philip meantime marched up and down outside in much annoyance, until the priest and his brother
came out, when the first thing he heard the good Colombeau say was, 'I would have called upon
you before, my son, but that I feared you were a Huguenot.'

'I am an English Protestant,' said Berenger; 'but, ah! sir, I needed comfort too much to stay
away from prayer.'

Pere Colombeau looked at him in perplexity, thinking perhaps that here might be a promising
convert, if there were only time to work on him; but Berenger quitted the subject at once,
asking the distance to Lucon.

'A full day's journey,' answered Pere Colombeau, and added, 'I am sorry you are indeed a Huguenot.
It was what I feared last night, but I feared to add to your grief. The nuns are not permitted
to deliver up children to Huguenot relations.'

'I am her father!' exclaimed Berenger, indignantly.

'That goes for nothing, according to the rules of the Church,' said the priest. 'The Church
cannot yield her children to heresy.'

'But we in England and not Calvinists,' cried Berenger. 'We are not like your Huguenots.'

'The Church would make no difference,' said the priest. 'Stay, sir,' as Berenger stuck his
own forehead, and was about to utter a fierce invective. 'Remember that if your child lives,
it is owing to the pity of the good nuns. You seem not far from the bosom of the Church. Did
you but return---'

'It is vain to speak of that,' said Berenger, quickly. 'Say, sir, would an order from the King
avail to open these doors?'

'Of course it would, if you have the influence to obtain one.'

'I have, I have,' cried Berenger, eagerly. 'The King has been my good friend already. Moreover,
my English grandfather will deal with the Queen. The heiress of our house cannot be left in
a foreign nunnery. Say, sir,' he added, turning to the priest, 'if I went to Lucon at once
know your name, and refuse all dealings with you.'

'She could not do so, if I brought an order from the King.'

'Certainly not.'

'Then to Paris!' And laying his hand on Philip's shoulder, he asked the boy whether he had
understood, ad explained that he must go at once to Paris--riding post--and obtain the order
from the King.

'To Paris--to be murdered again!' said Philip, in dismay.

'They do not spend their time there in murder,' said Berenger. 'And now is the time, while
the savage villain Narcisse is with his master in Poland. I cannot but go, Philip; we both
waste words. You shall take home a letter to my Lord.'

'I--I go not home without you,' said Philip, doggedly.

'I cannot take you, Phil; I have no warrant.'

'I have warrant for going, though. My father said he was easier about you with me at your side.
Where you go, I go.'

The brothers understood each other's ways so well, that Berenger knew the intonation in Philip's
voice that meant that nothing should make him give way. He persuaded no more, only took measures
for the journey, in which the kind priest gave him friendly advice. There was no doubt that
the good man pitied him sincerely, and wished him success more than perhaps he strictly ought
to have done, unless as a possible convert. Of money for the journey there was no lack, for
Berenger had brought a considerable sum, intending to reward all who had befriended Eustacie,
as well as to fit her out for the voyage; and this, perhaps, with his papers, he had brought
ashore to facilitate his entrance into La Sablerie,--that entrance which, alas! he had found
only too easy. He had therefore only to obtain horses and a guide, and this could be done at
la Motte-Achard, where the party could easily be guided on foot, or conveyed in a boat if the
fog should not set in again, but all the coast-line of Nissard was dangerous in autumn and
winter; nay, even this very August an old man, with his daughter, her infant, and a donkey,
had been found bewildered between the creeks on a sandbank, where they stood still and patient,
like a picture of the Flight into Egypt, when an old fisherman found them, and brought them
to the beneficent shelter of the Presbytere.

Stories of this kind were told at the meal that was something partaking of the nature of both
breakfast and early dinner, but where Berenger ate little and spoke less. Philip watched him
anxiously; the boy thought the journey a perilous experiment every way, but, boyishly, was
resolved neither to own his fears of it nor to leave his brother. External perils he was quite
ready to face, and he fancied that his English birth would give him some power of protecting
Berenger, but he was more reasonably in dread of the present shock bringing on such an illness
as the last relapse; and if Berenger lost his senses again, what should they do? He even ventured
to hint at this danger, but Berenger answered, 'That will scarce happen again. My head is stronger
now. Besides, it was doing nothing, and hearing her truth profaned, that crazed me. No one
at least will do that again. But if you wish to drive me frantic again, the way would be to
let Hobbs carry me home without seeking her child.'

Philip bore this in mind, when, with flood-tide, Master Hobbs landed, and showed himself utterly
dismayed at the turn affairs had taken. He saw the needlessness of going to Lucon without royal
authority; indeed, he thought it possible that the very application there might give the alarm,
and cause all tokens of the child's identity to be destroyed, in order to save her from her
heretic relations. But he did not at all approve of the young gentlemen going off to Paris
at once. It was against his orders. He felt bound to take them home as he has brought them,
and they might then make a fresh start if it so pleased them; but how could he return to my
Lord and Sir Duke without them? 'Mr. Ribaumont might be right--it was not for him to say a
father ought not to look after his child--yet he was but a stripling himself, and my Lord had
said, 'Master Hobbs, I trust him to you.'' He would clearly have liked to have called in a
boat's crew, mastered the young gentlemen, and carried them on board as captives; but as this
was out of his power, he was obliged to yield the point. He disconsolately accepted the letters
in which Berenger had explained all, and in which he promised to go at once to Sir Francis
Walsingham's at Paris, to run into no needless danger, and to watch carefully over Philip;
and craved pardon, in a respectful but yet manly and determined tone, for placing his duty
to his lost, deserted child above his submission to his grandfather. Then engaging to look
out for a signal on the coast if he should said to Bordeaux in January, to touch and take the
passengers off, Captain Hobbs took leave, and the brothers were left to their own resources.

CHAPTER XXV. THE VELVET COACH

    No, my good Lord, Diana--
           ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL

A late autumn journey from the west coast to Paris was a more serious undertaking in the sixteenth
century than the good seaman Master Hobbs was aware of, or he would have used stronger dissuasive
measures against such an undertaking by the two youths, when the elder was in so frail a state
of health; but there had been a certain deceptive strength and vigour about young Ribaumont
while under strong excitement and determination, and the whole party fancied him far fitter
to meet the hardships than was really the case. Philip Thistlewood always recollected that
journey as the most distressing period of his life.

They were out of the ordinary highways, and therefore found the hiring of horses often extremely
difficult. They had intended to purchase, but found no animals that, as Philip said, they would
have accepted as a gift, though at every wretched inn where they had to wait while the country
was scoured for the miserable jades, their proposed requirements fell lower and lower. Dens
of smoke, dirt, and boorishness were the great proportion of those inns, where they were compelled
to take refuge by the breaking down of one or other of the beasts, or by stress of weather.
Snow, rain, thaw and frost alternated, each variety rendering the roads impassable; and at
the best, the beasts could seldom be urged beyond a walk, fetlock-deep in mire or water. Worse
than all, Berenger, far from recovered, and under the heavy oppression of a heartrending grief,
could hardly fail to lose the ground that he had gained under the influence of hope. The cold
seemed to fix itself on the wound on his cheek, terrible pain and swelling set in, depriving
him entirely of sleep, permitting him to take no nourishment but fragments of soft crumbs soaked
in wine or broth--when the inns afforded any such fare--and rendering speech excessively painful,
and at last unintelligible.

Happily this was not until Philip and Humfrey both had picked up all the most indispensable
words to serve their needs, and storming could be done in any language. Besides, they had fallen
in at La Motte-Achard with a sharp fellow named Guibert, who had been at sea, and knew a little
English, was a Norman by birth, knew who the Baron de Ribaumont was, and was able to make himself
generally useful, though ill supplying the place of poor Osbert, who would have been invaluable
in the present predicament. Nothing was so much dreaded by any of the party as that their chief
should become utterly unable to proceed. Once let him be laid up at one of these little auberges,
and Philip felt as if all would be over with him; and he himself was always the most restlessly
eager to push on, and seemed to suffer less even in the biting wind and sleet than on the dirty
pallets or in the smoky, noisy kitchens of the inns. That there was no wavering of consciousness
was the only comfort, and Philip trusted to prevent this by bleeding him whenever his head
seemed aching or heated; and under this well-meant surgery it was no wonder that he grew weaker
every day, in spite of the most affectionate and assiduous watching on his brother's part.

Nearly six weeks had been spent in struggling along the cross-roads, or rather in endless delays;
and when at last they came on more frequented ways, with better inns, well-paved chaussees,
and horses more fit for use, Berenger was almost beyond feeling the improvement. At their last
halt, even Philip was for waiting and sending on to Paris to inform Sir Francis Walsingham
of their situation; but Berenger only shook his head, dressed himself, and imperatively signed
to go on. It was a bright morning, with a clear frost, and the towers and steeples of Paris
presently began to appear above the poplars that bordered the way; but by this time Berenger
was reeling in his saddle, and he presently became so faint and dizzy, that Philip and Humfrey
were obliged to lift him from his horse, and lay him under an elm-tree that stood a little
back from the road.

'Look up, sir, it is but a league further,' quoth Humfrey; 'I can see the roof of the big church
they call Notre-Dame.'

'He does not open his eyes, he is swooning,' said Philip. 'He must have some cordial, ere he
can sit his horse. Can you think of no lace where we could get a drop of wine or strong waters?'

'Not I, Master Philip. We passed a convent wall but now, but 'twas a nunnery, as good as a
grave against poor travelers. I would ride on, and get some of Sir Francis's folk to bring
a litter or coach, but I doubt me if I could get past the barrier without my young Lord's safe-conduct.'

Berenger, hearing all, here made an effort to raise himself, but sank back against Philip's
shoulder. Just then, a trampling and lumbering became audible, and on the road behind appeared
first three horsemen riding abreast, streaming with black and white ribbons; then eight pair
of black horses, a man walking at the crested heads of each couple, and behind these a coach,
shaped like an urn reversed, and with a coronet on the top, silvered, while the vehicle itself
was, melon-like, fluted, alternately black, with silver figures, and white with black landscapes;
and with white draperies, embroidered with black and silver, floating from the windows. Four
lacqueys, in the same magpie-colouring, stood behind, and outriders followed; but as the cavalcade
approached the group by the road-side, one of the horsemen paused, saying lightly, 'Over near
the walls from an affair of honour! Has he caught it badly? Who was the other?'

Ere Guibert could answer, the curtains were thrust aside, the coach stopped, a lady's head
and hand appeared, and a female voice exclaimed, in much alarm, 'Halt! Ho, you there, in our
colours, come here. What is it? My brother here? Is he wounded?'

'It is no wound, Madame,' said Guibert, shoved forward by his English comrades, 'it is M. le
Baron de Ribaumont who is taken ill, and--ah! here is Monsieur Philippe.'

For Philip, seeing a thick black veil put back from the face of the most beautiful lady who
had ever appeared to him, stepped forward, hat in hand, as she exclaimed, 'Le Baron de Ribaumont!
Can it be true? What means this? What ails him?'

'It is his wound, Madame,' said Philip, in his best French; 'it has broken out again, and he
has almost dropped from his horse from defaillance.'

'Ah, bring him here--lay him on the cushions, we will have the honour of transporting him,'
cried the lady; and, regardless of the wet road, she sprang out of the coach, with her essences
in her hand, followed by at least three women, two pages, and two little white dogs which ran
barking towards the prostrate figure, but were caught up by their pages. 'Ah, cousin, how dreadful,'
she cried, as she knelt down beside him, and held her essences towards him. Voice and scent
revived him, and with a bewildered look and gesture half of thanks, half of refusal, he gazed
round him, then rose to his feet without assistance, bent his head, and making a sign that
he was unable to speak, turned towards his horse.

'Cousin, cousin,' exclaimed the lady, in whose fine black eyes tears were standing, 'you will
let me take you into the city--you cannot refuse.'

'Berry, indeed you cannot ride,' entreated Philip; 'you must take her offer. Are you getting
crazed at last?'

Berenger hesitated for a moment, but he felt himself again dizzy; the exertion of springing
into his saddle was quite beyond him, and bending his head he submitted passively to be helped
into the black and white coach. Humfrey, however, clutched Philip's arm, and said impressively,
'Have a care, sir; this is no other than the fine lady, sister to the murderous villain that
set upon him. If you would save his life, don't quit him, nor let her take him elsewhere than
to our Ambassador's. I'll not leave the coach-door, and as soon as we are past the barriers,
I'll send Jack Smithers to make known we are coming.'

Philip, without further ceremony, followed the lady into the coach, where he found her insisting
that Berenger, who had sunk back in a corner, should lay his length of limb, muddy boots and
all, upon the white velvet cushions richly worked in black and silver, with devices and mottoes,
in which the crescent moon, and eclipsed or setting suns, made a great figure. The original
inmates seemed to have disposed of themselves in various nooks of the ample conveyance, and
Philip, rather at a loss to explain his intrusion, perched himself awkwardly on the edge of
the cushions in front of his brother, thinking that Humfrey was an officious, suspicious fellow,
to distrust this lovely lady, who seemed so exceedingly shocked and grieved at Berenger's condition.
'Ah! I never guessed it had been so frightful as this. I should not have known him. Ah! had
I imagined---' She leant back, covered her face, and wept, as one overpowered; then, after
a few seconds, she bent forward, and would have taken the hand that hung listlessly down, but
it was at once withdrawn, and folded with the other on his breast.

'Can you be more at ease? Do you suffer much?' she asked, with sympathy and tenderness that
went to Philip's heart, and he explained. 'He cannot speak, Madame; the shot in his cheek'
(the lady shuddered, and put her handkerchief to her eyes) 'from time to time cases this horrible
swelling and torture. After that he will be better.'

'Frightful, frightful,' she sighed, 'but we will do our best to make up. You, sir, must be
his trucheman.'

Philip, not catching the last word, and wondering what kind of man that might be, made answer,
'I am his brother, Madame.'

'Eh! Monsieur son frere. Had Madame sa mere a son so old?'

'I am Philip Thistlewood, her husband's son, at your service, Madame,' said Philip, colouring
up to the ears; 'I came with him for he is too weak to be alone.'

'Great confidence must be reposed in you, sir,' she said, with a not unflattering surprise.
'But whence are you come? I little looked to see Monsieur here.'

'We came from Anjou, Madame. We went to La Sablerie,' and he broke off.

'I understand. Ah! let us say no more! It rends the heart;' and again she wiped away tear.
'And now---'

'We are coming to the Ambassador's to obtain'--he stopped, for Berenger gave him a touch of
peremptory warning, but the lady saved his embarrassment by exclaiming that she could not let
her dear cousin go to the Ambassador's when he was among his own kindred. Perhaps Monsieur
did not know her; she must present herself as Madame de Selinville, nee de Ribaumont, a poor
cousin of ce cher Baron, 'and even a little to you, M. le frere, if you will own me,' and she
held out a hand, which he ought to have kissed, but not knowing how, he only shook it. She
further explained that her brother was at Cracow with Monsieur, now King of Poland, but that
her father lived with her at her hotel, and would be enchanted to see his dear cousin, only
that he, like herself, would be desolated at the effects of that most miserable of errors.
She had been returning from her Advent retreat at a convent, where she had been praying for
the soul of the late M. de Selinville, when a true Providence had made her remark the colours
of her family. And now, nothing would serve her, but that this dear Baron should be carried
at once to their hotel, which was much nearer than that of the Ambassador, and where every
comfort should await him. She clasped her hands in earnest entreaty, and Philip, greatly touched
by her kindness and perceiving that every jolt of the splendid by springless vehicle caused
Berenger's head a shoot of anguish, was almost acceding to her offer, when he was checked by
one of the most imperative of those silent negatives. Hitherto, Master Thistlewood had been
rather proud of his bad French, and as long as he could be understood, considered trampling
on genders, tenses, and moods as a manful assertion of Englishry, but he would just now have
given a great deal for the command of any language but a horseboy's, to use to this beautiful
gracious personage. 'Merci, Madame, nous ne fallons pas, nous avons passe notre parole d'aller
droit a l'Ambassadeur's et pas ou else,' did not sound very right to his ears; he coloured
up to the roots of his hair, and knew that if Berry had had a smile left in him, poor fellow,
he would have smiled now. But this most charming and polite of ladies never betrayed it, if
it were ever such bad French; she only bowed her head, and said something very pretty--if only
he could make it out--of being the slave of one's word, and went on persuading. Nor did it
make the conversation easier, that she inquired after Berenger, and mourned over his injuries
as if he were unconscious, while Philip knew, nay, was reminded every instant, that he was
aware of all that was passing, most anxious that as little as possible should be said, and
determined against being taken to her hotel. So unreasonable a prejudice did this seem to Philip,
that had it not been for Humfrey's words, he would have doubted whether, in spite of all his
bleeding, his brother's brain were not wandering.

However, what with Humfrey without, and Berenger within, the turn to the Ambassador's hotel
was duly taken, and in process of time a hearty greeting passed between Humfrey and the porter;
and by the time the carriage drew up, half the household were assembled on the steps, including
Sir Francis himself, who had already heard more than a fortnight back from Lord Walwyn, and
had become uneasy at the non-arrival of his two young guests. On Smithers's appearance, all
had been made ready; and as Berenger, with feeble, tardy movements, made courteous gestures
of thanks to the lady, and alighted form the coach, he was absolutely received into the dignified
arms of the Ambassador. 'Welcome, my poor lad, I am glad to see you here again, though in such
different guise. Your chamber is ready for you, and I have sent my secretary to see if Maitre
Par be at home, so we will, with God's help, have you better at ease anon.'

Even Philip's fascination by Madame de Selinville could not hold out against the comfort of
hearing English voices all round him, and of seeing his brother's anxious brow expand, and
his hand and eyes return no constrained thanks. Civilities were exchanged on both sides; the
Ambassador thanked the lady for the assistance she had rendered to his young friend and guest;
she answered with a shade of stiffness, that she left her kinsman in good hands, and said she
should send to inquire that evening, and her father would call on the morrow; then, as Lady
Walsingham did not ask her in, the black and white coach drove away.

The lady threw herself back in one corner, covered her face, and spoke no word. Her coach pursued
its way through the streets, and turned at length into another great courtyard, surrounded
with buildings, where she alighted, and stepped across a wide but dirty hall, where ranks of
servants stoop up and bowed as she passed; then she ascended a wide carved staircase, opened
a small private door, and entered a tiny wainscoted room hardly large enough for her farthingale
to turn round in. 'You, Veronique, come in--only you,' she said, at the door; and a waiting-woman,
who had been in the carriage, obeyed, no longer clad in the Angevin costume, but in the richer
and less characteristic dress of the ordinary Parisian femme de chambre.

'Undo my mantle in haste!' gasped Madame de Selinville. 'O Veronique--you saw--what destruction!'

'Ah! if my sweet young lady only known how frightful he had become, she had never sacrificed
herself,' sighed Veronique.

'Frightful! What, with the grave blue eyes that seem like the steady avenging judgment of St.
Michael in his triumph in the picture at the Louvre?' murmured Madame de Selinville; then she
added quickly, 'Yes, yes, it is well. She and you, Veronique, may see him frightful and welcome.
There are other eyes--make haste, girl. There--another handerchief. Follow me not.'

And Madame de Selinville moved out of the room, past the great state bedroom and the salle
beyond, to another chamber where more servants waited and rose at her entrance.

'Is any one with my father?'

'No, Madame;' and a page knocking, opened the door and announced, 'Madame la Comtesse.'

The Chevalier, in easy deshabille, with a flask of good wine, iced water, and delicate cakes
and confitures before him, a witty and licentious epigrammatic poem close under his hand, sat
lazily enjoying the luxuries that it had been his daughter's satisfaction to procure for him
ever since her marriage. He sprang up to meet her with a grace and deference that showed how
different a person was the Comtesse de Selinville from Diane de Ribaumont.

'Ah! ma belle, my sweet,' as there was a mutual kissing of hands, 'thou art returned. Had I
known thine hour, I had gone down for thy first embrace. But thou lookest fair, my child; the
convent has made thee lovelier than ever.'

'Father, who think you is here? It is he--the Baron.'

'The Baron? Eh, father!' she cried impetuously. 'Who could it be but one?'

'My child, you are mistaken! That young hot-head can never be thrusting himself here again.'

'But he is, father; I brought him into Paris in my coach! I left him at the Ambassador's.'

'Thou shouldest have brought him here. There will be ten thousand fresh imbroglios.'

'I could not; he is as immovable as ever, though unable to speak! Oh, father, he is very ill,
he suffers terribly. Oh, Narcisse! Ah! may I never see him again!'

'But what brings him blundering her again?' exclaimed the Chevalier. 'Speak intelligibly, child!
I thought we had guarded against that! He knows nothing of the survivance.'

'I cannot tell much. He could not open his mouth, and his half-brother, a big dull English
boy, stammered out a few words of shocking French against his will. But I believe they had
heard of la pauvre petite at La Sablerie, came over for her, and finding the ruin my brother
makes wherever he goes, are returning seeking intelligence and succour for HIM.'

'That may be,' said the Chevalier, thoughtfully. 'It is well thy brother is in Poland. I would
not see him suffer any more; and we may get him back to England ere my son learns that he is here.'

'Father, there is a better way! Give him my hand.'

'Eh quoi, child; if thou art tired of devotion, there are a thousand better marriages.'

'No, father, none so good for this family. See, I bring him all--all that I was sold for. As
the price of that, he resigns for ever all his claims to the ancestral castle--to La Leurre,
and above all, that claim to Nid de Merle as Eustacie's widower, which, should he ever discover
the original contract, will lead to endless warfare.'

'His marriage with Eustacie was annulled. Yet--yet there might be doubts. There was the protest;
and who knows whether they formally renewed their vows when so much went wrong at Montpipeau.
Child, it is a horrible perplexity. I often could wish we had had no warning, and the poor
things had made off together. We could have cried shame till we forced out a provision for
thy brother; and my poor little Eustacie---' He had tears in his eyes as he broke off.

Diane made an impatient gesture. 'She would have died of tedium in England, or broken forth
so as to have a true scandal. That is all over, father, now; weigh my proposal! Nothing else
will save my brother from all that his cruel hand merits! You will win infinite credit at court.
The King loved him more than you thought safe.'

'The King has not a year to live, child, and he has personally offended the King of Poland.
Besides, this youth is heretic.'

'Only by education. Have I not heard you say that he had by an abjuration. And as to Monsieur's
enmity, if it be not forgotten, the glory of bringing about a conversion would end that at once.'

'Then, daughter, thou shouldst not have let him bury himself among the English.'

'It was unavoidable, father, and perhaps if he were here he would live in an untamable state
of distrust, whereas we may now win him gradually. You will go and see him to-morrow, my dear
father.'

'I must have time to think of this thy sudden device.'

'Nay, he is in no condition to hear of it at present. I did but speak now, that you might not
regard it as sudden when the fit moment comes. It is the fixed purpose of my mind. I am no
girl now, and I could act for myself if I would; but as it is for your interest and that of
my brother thus to dispose of me, it is better that you should act for me.'

'Child, headstrong child, thou wilt make no scandal,' said the Chevalier, looking up at his
daughter's handsome head drawn up proudly with determination.

'Certainly not, sir, if you will act for me.' And Diane sailed away in her sweeping folds of
black brocade.

In a few moments more she was kneeling with hands locked together before a much-gilded little
waxem figure of St. Eustacie with his cross-bearing stag by his side, which stood in a curtained
recess in the alcove where her stately bed was placed.

'Monseigneur St. Eustache, ten wax candles everyday to your shrine at Bellaise, so he recovers;
ten more if he listen favourably and loves me. Nay, all--all the Selinville jewels to make
you a shrine. All--all, so he will only let me love him;' and then, while taking up the beads,
and pronouncing the repeated devotions attached to each, her mind darted back to the day when,
as young children, she had played unfairly, defrauded Landry Osbert, and denied it; how Berenger,
though himself uninjured, had refused to speak to her all that day--how she had hated him then--how
she had thought she had hated him throughout their brief intercourse in the previous year;
how she had played into her brother's hands; and when she thought to triumph over the man who
had scorned her, found her soul all blank desolation, and light gone out from the earth! Reckless
and weary, she had let herself be united to M. de Selinville, and in her bridal honours and
amusements had tried to crowd out the sense of dreariness and lose herself in excitement. Then
came the illness and death of her husband, and almost at the same time the knowledge of Berenger's
existence. She sought excitement again that feverish form of devotion then in vogue at Paris,
and which resulted in the League. She had hitherto stunned herself as it were with penances,
processions, and sermons, for which the host of religious orders then at Paris had given ample
scope; and she was constantly devising new extravagances. Even at this moment she wore sackcloth
beneath her brocade, and her rosary was of death's heads. She was living on the outward husk
of the Roman Church not penetrating into its living power, and the phase of religion which
fostered Henry III. and the League offered her no more.

All, all had melted away beneath the sad but steadfast glance of those two eyes, the only feature
still unchanged in the marred, wrecked countenance. That honest, quiet refusal, that look which
came from a higher atmosphere, had filled her heart with passionate beatings and aspirations
once more, and more consciously than ever. Womanly feeling for suffering, and a deep longing
to compensate to him, and earn his love, nay wrest it from him by the benefits she would heap
upon him, were all at work; but the primary sense was the longing to rest on the only perfect
truth she had ever known in man, and thus with passionate ardour she poured forth her entreaties
to St. Eustache, a married saint, who had known love, and could feel for her, and could surely
not object to the affection to which she completely gave way for one whose hand was now as
free as her own.

But St. Eustache was not Diane's only hope. That evening she sent Veronique to Rene of Milan,
the court-perfumer, but also called by the malicious, l'empoisonneur de le Reine, to obtain
from him the most infallible charm and love potion in his whole repertory.

CHAPTER XXVI. THE CHEVALIER'S EXPIATION

                  Next, Sirs, did he marry?
And whom, Sirs, did he marry? One like himself, Though doubtless graced
with many virtues, young, And erring, and in nothing more astray Than in
this marriage.--TAYLOR, EDWIN THE FAIR.

Nothing could be kinder than the Ambassador's family, and Philip found himself at once at home
there, at least in his brother's room, which was all the world to him. fortunately, Ambroise
Pare, the most skillful surgeon of his day, had stolen a day from his attendance of King Charles,
at St. Germain, to visit his Paris patients, and, though unwilling to add to the list of cases,
when he heard from Walsingham's secretary who the suffer was, and when injured, he came at
once to afford his aid.

He found, however, that there was little scope for present treatment, he could only set his
chief assistant to watch the patient and to inform him when the crisis should be nearer; but
remarking the uneasy, anxious expression in Berenger's eyes, he desired to know whether any
care on his mind might be interfering with his recovery. A Huguenot, and perfectly trustworthy,
he was one who Walsingham knew might safely hear the whole, and after hearing all, he at once
returned to his patient, and leaning over him, said, 'Vex not yourself, sir; your illness is
probably serving you better than health could do.'

Sir Francis thought this quite probable, since Charles was so unwell and so beset with his
mother's creatures that no open audience could be obtained from him, and Pare, who always had
access to him, might act when no one else could reach him. Meantime the Ambassador rejoiced
to hear of the instinctive caution that had made Berenger silence Philip on the object of the
journey to Paris, since if the hostile family guessed at the residence of the poor infant,
they would have full opportunity for obliterating all the scanty traces of her. Poor persecuted
little thing! the uncertain hope of her existence seemed really the only thread that still
bound Berenger to life. He had spent eighteen months in hope deferred, and constant bodily
pain; and when the frightful disappointment met him at La Sablerie, it was not wonder that
his heart and hope seemed buried in the black scorched ruins where all he cared for had perished.
He was scarcely nineteen, but the life before him seemed full of nothing but one ghastly recollection,
and, as he said in the short sad little letter which he wrote to his grandfather from his bed,
he only desired to live long enough to save Eustacie's child from being a nameless orphan maintained
for charity in a convent, and to see her safe in Aunt Cecily's care; and then he should be
content to have done with this world for ever.

The thought that no one except himself could save the child, seemed to give him the resolution
to battle for life that often bears the patient through illness, though now he as suffering
more severely and consciously than ever he had done before; and Lady Walsingham often gave
up hopes of him. He was tenderly cared for by her and her women; but Philip was the most constant
nurse, and his unfailing assiduity and readiness amazed the household, who had begun by thinking
him ungainly, loutish, and fit for nothing but country sports.

The Chevalier de Ribaumont came daily to inquire; and the first time he was admitted actually
burst into tears at the sight of the swollen disfigured face, and the long mark on the arm
which lay half-uncovered. Presents of delicacies, ointments, and cooling drinks were frequently
sent from him and from the Countess de Selinville; but Lady Walsingham distrusted these, and
kept her guest strictly to the regimen appointed by Pare. Now and then, billets would likewise
come. The first brought a vivid crimson into Berenger's face, and both it and all its successors
he instantly tore into the smallest fragments, without letting any one see them.

On the day of the Carnival, the young men of the household had asked Master Thistlewood to
come out with them and see the procession of the Boeuf Gras; but before it could take place,
reports were flying about that put the city in commotion, caused the Ambassador to forbid all
going out, and made Philip expect another Huguenot massacre. The Duke of Alencon and the King
of Navarre had been detected, it was said, in a conspiracy for overthrowing the power of the
Queen-mother, bringing in the Huguenots, and securing the crown to Alencon on the King's death.
Down-stairs, the Ambassador and his secretaries sat anxiously striving to sift the various
contradictory reports; up-stairs, Philip and Lady Walsingham were anxiously watching Berenger
in what seemed the long-expected crisis, and Philip was feeling as if all the French court
were welcome to murder one another so that they would only let Ambroise Pare come to his brother's
relief. And it was impossible even to send!

At last, however, when Ash-Wednesday was half over, there was a quiet movement, and a small
pale man in black was at the bedside, without Philip's having ever seen his entrance. He looked
at his exhausted patient, and said, 'It is well; I could not have done you any good before.'

And when he had set Berenger more at ease, he told how great had been the confusion at St.
Germain when the plot had become known to the Queen-mother. The poor King had been wakened
at two o'clock in the morning, and carried to his litter, when Pare and his old nurse had tended
him. He only said, 'Can they not let me die in peace?' and his weakness had been so great on
arriving, that the surgeon could hardly have left him for M. de Ribaumont, save by his own
desire. 'Yes, sir,' added Pare, seeing Berenger attending to him, 'we must have you well quickly;
his Majesty knows all about you, and is anxious to see you.'

In spite of these good wishes, the recovery was very slow; for, as the surgeon had suspected,
the want of skill in those who had had the charge of Berenger at the first had been the cause
of much of his protracted suffering. Pare, the inventor of trephining, was, perhaps, the only
man in Europe who could have dealt with the fracture in the back of the head, and he likewise
extracted the remaining splinters of the jaw, though at the cost of much severe handling and
almost intolerable pain: but by Easter, Berenger found the good surgeon's encouragement verified,
and himself on the way to a far more effectual cure than he had hitherto thought possible.
Sleep had come back to him, he experienced the luxury of being free from all pain, he could
eat without difficulty; and Pare, always an enemy to wine, assured him that half the severe
headaches for which he had been almost bled to death, were the consequence of his living on
bread soaked in sack instead of solid food; and he was forbidden henceforth to inflame his
brain with anything stronger than sherbet. His speech, too, was much improved; he still could
not utter all the consonants perfectly, and could not speak distinctly without articulating
very slowly, but all the discomfort and pain were gone; and though still very weak, he told
Philip that now all his course seemed clear towards his child, instead of being like a dull,
distraught dream. His plan was to write to have a vessel sent from Weymouth, to lie off the
coast till his signal should be seen from la Motte-Achard, and then to take in the whole party
and the little yearling daughter, whom he declared he should trust to no one but himself. Lady
Walsingham remonstrated a little at the wonderful plans hatched by the two lads together, and
yet she was too glad to see a beginning of brightening on his face to make many objections.
It was only too sand to think how likely he was again to be disappointed.

He was dressed, but had not left his room, and was lying on cushions in the ample window overlooking
the garden, while Frances and Elizabeth Walsingham in charge of their mother tried to amuse
him by their childish airs and sports, when a message was brought that M. le Chevalier de Ribaumont
prayed to be admitted to see him privily.

'What bodes that?' he languidly said.

'Mischief, no doubt,' said Philip Walsingham. 'Send him word that you are seriously employed.'

'Nay, that could scarce be, when he must have heard the children's voices,' said Lady Walsingham.
'Come away, little ones.'

The ladies took the hint and vanished, but Philip remained till the Chevalier had entered,
more resplendent than ever, in a brown velvet suit slashed with green satin, and sparkling
with gold lace-a contrast to the deep mourning habit in which Berenger was dressed. After inquiries
for his health, the Chevalier looked at Philip, and expressed his desire of speaking with his
cousin alone.

'If it be of business,' said Berenger, much on his guard, 'my head is still weak, and I would
wish to have the presence of the Ambassador or one of his secretaries.'

'This is not so much a matte of business as of family,' said the Chevalier, still looking so
uneasily at Philip that Berenger felt constrained to advise him to join the young ladies in
the garden; but instead of doing this, the boy paced the corridors like a restless dog waiting
for his master, and no sooner heard the old gentleman bow himself out than he hurried back
again, to find Berenger heated, panting, agitated as by a sharp encounter.

'Brother, what is it--what has the old rogue done to you?'

'Nothing,' said Berenger, tardily and wearily; and for some minutes he did not attempt to speak,
while Philip devoured his curiosity as best he might. At last he said, 'He was always beyond
me. What think you? Now he wants me to turn French courtier and marry his daughter.'

'His daughter!' exclaimed Philip, 'that beautiful lady I saw in the coach?'

A nod of assent.

'I only wish it were I.'

'Philip,' half angrily, 'how can you be such a fool?'

'Of course, I know it can't be,' said Philip sheepishly, but a little offended. 'But she's
the fairest woman my eyes ever beheld.'

'And the falsest.'

'My father says all women are false; only they can't help it, and don't mean it.'

'Only some do mean it,' said Berenger, dryly.

'Brother!' cried Philip, fiercely, as if ready to break a lance, 'what right have you to accuse
that kindly, lovely dame of falsehood?'

'It skills not going through all,' said Berenger, wearily. 'I know her of old. She began by
passing herself off on me as my wife.'

'And you were not transported?'

'I am not such a gull as you.'

'How very beautiful your wife must have been!' said Philip, with gruff amazement overpowering
his consideration.

'Much you know about it,' returned Berenger, turning his face away.

There was a long silence, first broken by Philip, asking more cautiously, 'And what did you
say to him?'

'I said whatever could show it was most impossible. Even I said the brother's handwriting was
too plain on my face for me to offer myself to the sister. But it seems all that is to be passed
over as an unlucky mistake. I wish I could guess what the old fellow is aiming at.'

'I am sure the lady looked at you as if she loved you.'

'Simpleton! She looked to see how she could beguile me. Love! They do nothing for love here,
you foolish boy, save par amour. If she loved me, her father was the last person she would
have sent me. No, no; 'tis a new stratagem, if I could only seen my way into it. Perhaps Sir
Francis will when he can spend an hour on me.'

Though full of occupation, Sir Francis never failed daily to look in upon his convalescent
guest, and when he heard of the Chevalier's interview, he took care that Berenger should have
full time to consult him; and, of course, he inquired a good deal more into the particulars
of the proposal than Philip had done. When he learnt that the Chevalier had offered all the
very considerable riches and lands that Diane enjoyed in right of her late husband as an equivalent
for Berenger's resignation of all claims upon the Nid-de-Merle property, he noted it on his
tables, and desired to know what these claims might be. 'I cannot tell,' said Berenger. 'You
may remember, sir, the parchments with our contract of marriage had been taken away from Chateau
Leurre, and I have never seen them.'

'Then,' said the Ambassador, 'you may hold it as certain that those parchments give you some
advantage which he hears, since he is willing to purchase it at so heavy a price. Otherwise
he himself would be the natural heir of those lands.'

'After my child,' said Berenger, hastily.

'Were you on your guard against mentioning your trust in your child's life?' said Sir Francis.

The long scar turned deeper purple than ever. 'Only so far as that I said there still be rights
I had no power to resign,' said Berenger. 'And then he began to prove to me---what I had no
mind to hear' (and his voice trembled) '---all that I know but too well.'

'Hum! you must not be left alone again to cope with him,' said Walsingham. 'Did he make any
question of the validity of your marriage?'

'No, sir, it was never touched on. I would not let him take her name into his lips.'

Walsingham considered for some minutes, and then said, 'It is clear, then, that he believes
that the marriage can be sufficiently established to enable you to disturb him in his possession
of some part, at least, of the Angevin inheritance, or he would not endeavour to purchase your
renunciation of it by the hand of a daughter so richly endowed.'

'I would willingly renounce it if that were all! I never sought it; only I cannot give up her
child's rights.'

'And that you almost declared,' proceeded Walsingham; 'so that the Chevalier has by his negotiation
gathered from you that you have not given up hope that the infant lives. Do your men know where
you believe she is?'

'My Englishmen know it, of course,' said Berenger; 'but there is no fear of them. The Chevalier
speaks no English, and they scarcely any French; and, besides, I believe they deem him equally
my butcher with his son. The other fellow I only picked up after I was on my way to Paris,
and I doubt his knowing my purpose.'

'The Chevalier must have had speech with him, though,' said Philip; 'for it was he who brought
word that the old rogue wished to speak with you.'

'It would be well to be quit yourself of the fellow ere leaving Paris,' said Walsingham.

'Then, sir,' said Berenger, with an anxious voice, 'do you indeed think I have betrayed aught
that can peril the poor little one?'

Sir Francis smiled. 'We do not set lads of your age to cope with old foxes,' he answered; 'and
it seems to me that you used far discretion in the encounter. The mere belief that the child
lives does not show him where she may be. In effect, it would seem likely to most that the
babe would be nursed in some cottage, and thus not be in the city of La Sablerie at all. He
might, mayhap, thus be put on a false scent.'

'Oh no,' exclaimed Berenger, startled; 'that might bring the death of some other person's child
on my soul.'

'That shall be guarded against,' said Sir Francis. 'In the meantime, my fair youth, keep your
matters as silent as may be---do not admit the Chevalier again in my absence; and, as to this
man Guibert, I will confer with my steward whether he knows too much, and whether it be safer
to keep of dismiss him!'

'If only I could see the King, and leave Paris,' sighed Berenger.

And Walsingham, though unwilling to grieve the poor youth further, bethought himself that this
was the most difficult and hopeless matter of all. As young Ribaumont grew better, the King
grew worse; he himself only saw Charles on rare occasions, surrounded by a host of watchful
eyes and ears, and every time he marked the progress of disease; and though such a hint could
be given by an Ambassador, he thought that by far the best chance of recovery of the child
lay in the confusion that might probably follow the death of Charles IX. in the absence of
his next heir.

Berenger reckoned on the influence of Elisabeth of Austria, who had been the real worker in
his union with Eutacie; but he was told that it was vain to expect assistance from her. In
the first year of her marriage, she had fondly hoped to enjoy her husband's confidence, and
take her natural place in his court; but she was of no mould to struggle with Catherine de
Medicis, and after a time had totally desisted. Even at the time of the St. Bartholomew, she
had endeavoured to uplift her voice on the side of mercy, and had actually saved the lives
of the King of Navarre and Prince of Conde; and her father, the good Maximilian II., had written
in the strongest terms to Charles IX. expressing his horror of the massacre. Six weeks later,
the first hour after the birth of her first and only child, she had interceded with her husband
for the lives of two Huguenots who had been taken alive, and failing then either through his
want of will or want of power, she had collapsed and yielded up the endeavour. She ceased to
listen to petitions from those who had hoped for her assistance, as if to save both them and
herself useless pain, and seemed to lapse into a sort of apathy to all public interests. She
hardly spoke, mechanically fulfilled her few offices in the court, and seemed to have turned
her entire hope and trust into prayer for her husband. Her German confessor had been sent home,
and a Jesuit given her in his stead, but she had made no resistance; she seemed to the outer
world a dull, weary stranger, obstinate in leading a conventual life; but those who knew her
best--and of these few was the Huguenot surgeon Pare--knew that her heart had been broken two
guilty lives, or to make her husband free himself from his bondage to bloody counsels. To pray
for him was all that remained to her--and unwearied had been those prayers. Since his health
had declined, she had been equally indefatigable in attending on him, and did not seem to have
a single interest beyond his sick chamber.

As to the King of Navarre, for whose help Berenger had hoped, he had been all these months
in the dishonouable thraldom of Catherine de Medicis, and was more powerless than ever at this
juncture, having been implicated in Alencon's plot, and imprisoned at Vincennes.

And thus, the more Berenger heard of the state of things, the less hopeful did his cause appear,
till he could almost have believed his best chance lay in Philip's plan of persuading the Huguenots
to storm the convent.

CHAPTER XXVII. THE DYING KING

      Die in terror of thy guiltiness,
  Dream on, dream on of bloody deeds and death, Fainting, despair,
  despairing yield thy breath
                                     KING RICHARD III.

A few days later, when Berenger had sent out Philip, under the keeping of the secretaries,
to see the Queen-mother represent Royalty in one of the grand processions of Rogation-tide,
the gentle knock came to his door that always announced the arrival of his good surgeon.

'You look stronger, M. le Baron; have you yet left your room?'

'I have walked round the gallery above the hall,' said Berenger. 'I have not gone down-stairs;
that is for to-morrow.'

'What would M. le Baron say if his chirurgeon took him not merely down-stairs, but up on flight
at the Louvre?'

'Ha!' cried Berenger; 'to the King?'

'It is well-nigh the last chance, Monsieur; the Queen-mother and all her suite are occupied
with services and sermons this week; and next week private access to the King will be far more
difficult. I have waited as long as I could that you might gain strength to support the fatigue.'

'Hope cancels fatigue,' said Berenger, already at the other end of the room searching for his
long-disused cloak, sword, gloves, hat, and mask.

'Not the sword,' said Pare, 'so please you. M. le Baron must condescend to obtain entrance
as my assistant--the plain black doublet--yes, that is admirable; but I did not know that Monsieur
was so tall,' he added, in some consternation, as, for the first time, he saw his patient standing
up at his full height--unusual even in England, and more so in France. Indeed, Berenger had
grown during his year of illness, and being, of course, extremely thin, looked all the taller,
so as to be a very inconvenient subject to smuggle into to palace unobserved.

However, Ambroise had made up his mind to the risk, and merely assisted Berenger in assuming
his few equipments, then gave him his arm to go down the stairs. Meeting Guibert on the way,
Berenger left word with him that he was going out to take the air with Maitre Pare; and on
the man's offering to attend him, refused the proposal.

Pare carriage waited in the court, and Berenger, seated in its depths, rolled unseen through
the streets, till he found himself at the little postern of the Louvre, the very door whence
he was to have led off his poor Eustacie. Here Ambroise made him take off his small black mask,
in spite of all danger of his scars being remarked, since masks were not etiquette in the palace,
and, putting into his arms a small brass-bound case of instruments, asked his pardon for preceding
him, and alighted from the carriage.

This was Ambroise's usual entrance, and it was merely guarded by a Scottish archer, who probably
observed nothing. They then mounted the stone stair, the same where Osbert had dragged down
his insensible master; and as, at the summit, the window appeared where Berenger had waited
those weary hours, and heard the first notes of the bell of St.-Germain-l'Auxerrois, his breath
came in such hurried sobs, that Pare would fain have given him time to recover himself, but
he gasped, 'Not here--not here;' and Pare, seeing that he could still move on, turned, not
to the corridor leading to the King's old apartments, now too full of dreadful associations
for poor Charles, but towards those of the young Queen. Avoiding the ante-room, where no doubt
waited pages, users, and attendants, Pare presently knocked at a small door, so hidden in the
wain-scoting of the passage that only a habitue could have found it without strict search.
It was at once opened, and the withered, motherly face of an old woman, with keen black eyes
under a formal tight white cap, looked out.

'Eh! Maitre Pare,' she said, 'you have brought the poor young gentleman? On my faith, he looks
scarcely able to walk! Come in, sir, and rest a while in my chamber while Maitre Ambroise goes
on to announce you to the King. He is more at ease to-day, the poor child, and will relish
some fresh talk.

Berenger knew this to be Philippe, the old Huguenot nurse, whom Charles IX. loved most fondly,
and in whom he found his greatest comfort. He was very glad to sink into the seat she placed
for him, the only one is her small, bare room and recover breath there while Pare passed on
to the King, and she talked as one delighted to have a hearer.

'Ah, yes, rest yourself--stay; I will give you a few spoonfuls of the cordial potage I have
here for the King; it will comfort your heart. Ah! you have been cruelly mauled--but he would
have saved you if he could.

'Yes, good mother, I know that; the King has been my very good lord.

