Could not the matter be compromised? We are less sensitive than our American cousins, and if
the scene were changed from St. Francisco to some quiet watering-place on the Kentish Coast,
our kindred beyond the seas ought to be satisfied. I do not pretend to be a master of the style
of those who write Backwood sensations, but I think I can jot down a few lines to show what
I mean. Beneath I give a specimen of the sort of thing that might take the place of stories
revelling in such titles as the "Luck of Murder Camp," "Slack Bill's Banker," and "The Talk
of Stab-in-the-Backman's Chasm."

THE CHAFF OF HERNE BAY CREEK.

CHAPTER XX.--CHARLEY MEETS A CHUM.

The Miners who had been digging all day long the rough shingle for treasure-trove, had retired
to their rudely constructed cabins. These rough huts were built of wood, and furnished with
a seat on either side. There were two small windows let into the oaken walls--each of them
not more than six inches square. They were absolutely free from furniture--save perhaps, a
foot of cheap looking-glass, and here and there a wooden-peg used by the Miners for hanging
up their slouch-hats, their red flannel-shirts, and their long leather-boots.

These huts were not unlike the other habitations in the wild Far West, save that they had this
peculiarity--each hut was mounted on a huge springless framework, supported by four lumbering
wooden wheels. By this arrangement the hut could be moved from place to place, sometimes to
the fields, with their mines of undiscovered treasure; sometimes to the sea, burdened with
legacies of the mighty deep.

CHARLEY was smoking a pipe, and thinking of that fair home in San Francisco, the very centre
of civilisation, where the hotels were admirable, the stores well stocked, and house property
at a premium.

"I did not discover a single ruby yesterday," he murmured, and then he looked at the wooden
spade of a child--"I found only there a young 'un's toy. But it has softened my heart, and
taught me that human nature is human nature."

He paused to wipe away with a sunburnt hand a furtive tear.

"CHARLEY, my lad," he exclaimed, "this is unmanly. What would DARE DEATH DICK or THUNDER TIM
say to such a show of water?"

He took the spade, and was about to throw it with violence to the ground, when his better nature
triumphed, and he placed it, almost with reverence, on the bench beside him.

He was disturbed by a tap on the outer door--the door that faced the sea.

"Who's there?" he shouted, as he held in one hand a revolver, and in the other a bowie-knife
of the usual fashion.

"Are you ready?"

It was a gruff voice, and yet there was something feminine about it. CHARLEY had never feared
to meet a woman yet, and he did not now shrink from the encounter. However his training had
made him cautious. It might be a trap of the bloodthirsty Indians--those Children of Nature
who were known to indulge in any cruel subterfuge to secure the white men as their prey.

"Are you ready?" was repeated in the same gruff voice, but now the tone was one of entreaty.
The speaker seemed to be imploring for a reply.

CHARLEY hesitated no longer. He put down the bowie-knife, and still holding the revolver, opened
the door.

He started back! Yes, it was a woman who confronted him. But such a woman! Her face was weather-beaten
and sunburnt. Her hair was grey, and there were pieces of sea-weed in the shapeless mass that
once may have been called a bonnet. She was wearing a heavy serge dress that was dripping with
the sea. On her huge feet were old boots sodden with sand and wet. She might have been of any
age, from fifty upwards.

She gazed at CHARLEY with an uncanny smile, and extended her arms towards him. Then she spoke
in the same gruff tone,

"Come to your MARTHA!"

And CHARLEY knew he had met a chum!

       *       *       *       *       *

There, something like the above might do. The woods in the neighbourhood of Herne Bay are just
the places for adventure, and, with thought, a good deal might be managed with the Reculvers.

And now, Mr. Punch, I have done.

Yours respectfully, A WILD WELSH RAREBIT.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCE À L'AMÉRICAINE.

(PAGE FROM A DIARY ON THE POINT OF BEING WRITTEN.)

Monday.--Miners of the Great Hagglenaggle Fields ask for increase of wages, emphasising their
demand by firing off revolvers and brandishing bowie-knives.

Tuesday.--Masters of the Great Hagglenaggle Fields refuse to treat with Miners, and entrench
themselves behind ironclad back gardens. They also send for a force of PATTERSON's Mercenary
Chuckers-out. Fighting imminent.

Wednesday.--Appearance of PATTERSON's Mercenary Chuckers out. They are met by Miners with discharges
of Gattling guns and land torpedoes.

Thursday.--The two armies face to face. Both sides fire away, using up all their ammunition.
End of the day's contest, no balance on either side. Great success of the new General Interment
Company. Shares at thirty premium.

Friday.--Reinforcements for both sides. A general engagement considered imminent. In the meanwhile,
pour passer le temps, skirmishes and slaughter of thousands.

Saturday.--First-class, regular all-round battle. A large force arrived to fight the Miners,
Gatlings and Krupps blaze away without intermission. Losses on both sides pretty considerable.

Sunday.--Conversion of the Great Hagglenaggle Fields into a cemetery. Great rise in shares
on allotment. Ten acres of booking in advance!

       *       *       *       *       *

LAYS OF MODERN HOME.

NO. III.--OFF FOR MY HOLIDAY.

  Yes! I'm off for my holiday. Forty odd pieces
    Of luggage, three cabs, and a van, and a 'bus too.
  Without counting loose wraps, and umbrellas in creases,
    And sweets that my darlings are sucking with gusto.

  Yes! I'm off for my holiday--wife in hysterics,
    Since nowhere on earth can her poodle be found;
  And the nurses and children--ANNES, LILIANS, ERICS--
    All screaming, and fussing, and fuming around!

  Yes! I'm off for my holiday--Tyneside, or Deeside,
    Or Lakes, or that Switzerland English, Hind Head,
  Or the thousand monotonies known as "The Seaside"--
    Ask not whither my fugitive footsteps are led.

  For whatever the place, it is ever the same thing;
    Poor Paterfamilias always must suffer.
  A dyspeptic, a costly, a lame and a tame thing
    Is Holiday-time for a family buffer.

  Yes! I'm off for my holiday--where I won't mention;
    They are pulling the blinds of my drawing-room down:
  But next year--if I live--it's my solemn intention
    To stay, upon business, en garçon, in Town.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIR PROSPECTS OF FINE WEATHER.--No rain on St. Swithin's, and last week the County of Inverness
discarded its MACKINTOSH.