He stayed while in Liverpool at Seaforth House, the residence of Mr. John Gladstone, one of
the merchant princes of Liverpool, whose son William Ewart Gladstone was afterwards to make
the name of the family famous in history.  During his stay at Seaforth House, Canning used
to spend much of his time gazing out upon the sea, while the little boy William Ewart Gladstone
played on the lawn near him.  It was here that Canning heard the news {36} which led to an
entire change in his purpose, and opened the way to his greatest success.  His late colleague,
his late rival, Castlereagh, was dead--had died by his own hand.  Castlereagh had lately succeeded
to his father's title, and had become Marquis of Londonderry; but as the marquisate was only
an Irish peerage, he could still sit in the House of Commons as the chosen representative of
an English constituency.  His mind had seemed, for some time, to be darkened by troubles of
which he gave no account to his friends, and he suddenly committed suicide.  There are many
conjectures and suggested explanations as to the immediate cause of the act, but all we know
for certain is that the strong mind seemed suddenly to give way, and that Castlereagh could
endure life no longer.  Seldom, indeed, has the death of a public man in modern times been
received with any such demonstrations as those which in many places followed the news that
Castlereagh had done himself to death. In every community all over the country, and indeed
all over Europe and the civilized world, there were those who proclaimed that the death of
such a man was a positive blessing to the human race.  Wherever men were struggling against
despotism and suffering from tyranny, there were those who felt and who declared that the departure
of Castlereagh from this world was a benefit to humanity at large.

[Sidenote: 1822--Canning as Foreign Secretary]

Yet the man himself had not a cruel or an ignoble nature.  He had through all his life friends
who loved him, and whose love his private character and conduct had well deserved.  But he
had made himself the English representative of the policy of the Holy Alliance at a time when
every lover of liberty, and every believer in the development of free institutions and the
beneficent results of their working, must have felt that even the excesses of the French Revolution
gave no excuse for the deliberate setting-up of the doctrine of combined despotism.  Men of
liberal opinions were in an especially angry mood just then because England seemed to have
gone in deliberately for the policy which authorized the "crowned conspirators," as Sydney
Smith called them, to impose their edicts {37} on the whole continent of Europe.  This condition
of things may help to explain the cry of rejoicing with which the news of Castlereagh's suicide
was received in so many places.  The London crowd who followed the funeral procession to Westminster
Abbey greeted the removal of the coffin with yells of execration.  Byron wrote verses of savage
bitterness about the dead man and his deed of self-murder--wrote some verses which no English
publisher now would put into print.

The death of Castlereagh became a turning-point in the career of Canning. The whole voice of
Liberal public opinion at once proclaimed that Canning was the only man left in the country
who was capable of redeeming England's foreign policy from the discredit and disgrace brought
upon it by Castlereagh's Administration.  Even Lord Liverpool himself soon came to see that
there was no other course left to him than to recommend the King to offer to Canning the place
of Foreign Secretary.  The King at first fought hard against the advice of his Prime Minister.
The letters which passed between him and Lord Liverpool are a curiosity in their way. George
had evidently persuaded himself that Canning was a monster of ingratitude, who had committed
a positively unpardonable offence against his lord and master.  Indeed, it was only by playing
upon the King's personal vanity that Lord Liverpool at last brought him to accept the wholesome
advice tendered to him.  Lord Liverpool reminded George again and again that one of the noblest
of a monarch's prerogatives was his power to grant forgiveness to any repentant sinner.  George
was probably beginning to be weary of the discussion, and perhaps had natural shrewdness enough
to see that it could only end in one way.  He therefore seemed to be taken by the appeal made
to his generosity for pardon to a penitent offender, and he consented to make approaches to
Canning with regard to the office of Foreign Secretary.  At first, however, the King made so
ostentatious a profession of his magnanimous desire to pardon the remorseful wrong-doer that
Canning could not bring himself to accept the abject position which {38} his sovereign was
arranging for him.  He therefore declined at first to take any office under such conditions,
and the King had to come down from his high horse and treat with his subject in less arrogant
fashion.  The King, at last, so far modified his language as to leave the prerogative of mercy
out of the question, and Canning, by the advice of all his friends and supporters, consented
to become once more a member of the Administration and to undertake the duties of Foreign Secretary.

[Sidenote: 1822-27--Canning's fitness for Foreign Minister]

This, we have said, was the turning-point in the career of Canning.  It was also a turning-point
in the modern history of England.  The violence of the reaction against the principles of the
French Revolution had spent itself, and the public mind of this country was beginning to see
that the turbulence of democracy was not likely to be safely dealt with by the setting-up of
despotism.  Canning himself was a living illustration of the manner in which many great intellects
had been affected by the course of events between the fall of Napoleon and the death of Castlereagh.
Canning in his earlier days was in sympathy with the theories and doctrines of popular liberty,
and we have seen that up to the time of his actually entering Parliament it was generally believed
he would rank himself with the Whig Opposition.  But, like many other men who loved liberty
too, he had been alarmed by the aggressive policy of Napoleon, and he believed that the position
of England was best guaranteed by the later policy of Pitt.  Then came the Congress of Vienna,
and the deliberate attempt to reconstruct the map of continental Europe, and to decree the
destinies of nations according to the despotic principles of the Holy Alliance.

Canning soon recognized the fact, obvious enough, one might have thought, even to a man of
intellect far lower than that of Canning, that the traditions, the instincts, and the feelings
of a people must count for something in the form and manner of their government, and that there
are forces at work in the hearts and minds of peoples which can no more be governed by imperial
and royal decrees than can the forces of physical nature itself.  He {39} had unconsciously
anticipated in his own mind that doctrine of nationalities which afterwards came to play so
momentous and so clearly recognized a part in the politics of the world.  He saw how the policy
of Castlereagh had made England the recognized ally of all the old-world theories of divine
right and unconditional loyalty, and had made her a fellow-worker with the sovereigns of the
Holy Alliance for the restoration of tyranny all over the European continent.  He understood
the nature and the meaning of the new forces which were coming up in political life; he saw
that the French Revolution was not destined to end in the mere restoration of mediaeval despotism.
He saw that the American Revolution had opened a new chapter in the history of the modern world,
and that no man, whether he called himself Tory or Whig, was fit to be intrusted with the administration
of England's foreign policy who had not learned the lessons taught by the closing years of
the eighteenth and the opening years of the nineteenth century.  Canning had much of that imaginative
faculty without which there can hardly be any real statesmanship.  Even his gift of humor helped
him in this way.  He was able to understand the feelings, the tempers, and the conditions of
men with whom he had little opportunity of personal contact.  He could bring himself into sympathy
with the aspirations of peoples who were wholly foreign in race to him, and who would have
been mere foreigners and nothing else in the eyes of many of his political colleagues.

If Lord Londonderry had lived and had continued, as no doubt he would have done, to hold the
Foreign Office, he would have been England's representative at the Congress of Verona.  The
new chances opened by his death inspired that demand for the services of Canning which compelled
the King at last to yield and invite Canning back to his old place.  The Congress of Verona
was in fact a reassembling of the Holy Alliance for the purpose of taking once more into consideration
the disturbed state of Europe, and laying down once more the lines of the only policy which,
according to the judgment of the despotic {40} sovereigns and their ministers, could restore
peace to the Continent.  The disturbances arose simply from the fact that some of the European
populations were rising up against the policy of the Holy Alliance, and were agitating for
the principles of constitutional government.  The immediate and ostensible object for the summoning
of the Congress was the fact that Greece had been trying to throw off the yoke of Turkey, and
that the leading members of the Holy Alliance believed it was their business and their right
to say what was to be done with Greece, and whether or not it was for their convenience that
she should be held in perpetual bondage.

[Sidenote: 1822-27--England and the Congress of Verona]

But there were troubles also in Spain, because the Spanish sovereign had been giving way to
the desire of his people for a system of constitutional government and for the recognition
of the principle that a people has something to do with the making as well as with the obeying
of laws.  The restored Bourbon Government in France declared that it saw dangers to its own
rights and its own security in these concessions to popular demand, made in a country which
was only divided from French territory by the barrier of the Pyrenees.  It was intimated in
the clearest manner that the Bourbon Government of France would be prepared, if necessary,
to undertake armed intervention in the affairs of Spain in order to prevent the Spaniards from
thus setting a bad example to the subjects of the Bourbon dynasty.  Then the condition of Poland
was giving some alarm to the despotic monarchs of the Continent everywhere; for, if Poland
were to rise and were allowed to assert its liberty, who could tell on what soil, sacred to
despotism, other rebellious movements might not also break out.  Therefore, the monarchs of
the Holy Alliance were much perturbed, and came to the conclusion that, as the Congress of
Vienna had not succeeded in enforcing all its edicts, the only wise thing would be to call
together another Congress, to be held this time at Verona, and there go over all the work again
with greater vigor and determination.

Now it was unavoidable that England should be invited {41} to take part in this Congress, seeing
that, but for the assistance given by England, there would never have been a chance for even
the Congress of Vienna to make any attempt at the regulation of Europe.  Besides, it was well
known that Lord Londonderry had been a main instrument in the formation and execution of the
plans laid down by the Congress of Vienna, and although England, on that occasion, had not
been able to go quite as far as her allies would have wished her to accompany them, yet it
was not thought possible to leave England without an invitation to be represented at the Congress
of Verona.  On the death of Lord Londonderry it was resolved by the English Government to send
the Duke of Wellington to Verona.  The Duke had never professed any particular ideas of his
own with regard to foreign policy, but he was the most loyal of men in obeying the instructions
of those who were properly authorized to direct his movements, and in whom he could place his
confidence.  When Canning consented to accept office the Duke at once put himself into communication
with the new Foreign Secretary, and wrote to him from Paris informing Canning of his belief
that the Spanish question would be brought, in some shape or other, under the consideration
of the Congress, and asking Canning for instructions as to the course which he ought to adopt.
Canning despatched a reply to the Duke, one passage of which may be regarded as a full illustration
of the new principle which he had determined to establish in England's foreign policy.  The
words of the great statesman cannot be read with too close an attention.  Canning declares
that, "If there be a determined project to interfere by force or by menace in the present struggle
in Spain, so convinced are his Majesty's Government of the uselessness and danger of any such
interference, so objectionable does it appear to them in principle as well as in practical
execution, that when the necessity arises--or, I would rather say, when the opportunity offers--I
am to instruct your Grace at once frankly and peremptorily to declare that to any such interference,
come what may, his Majesty will not be a party."

{42}

[Sidenote: 1822-27--Canning and the Bourbons]

The Duke of Wellington faithfully obeyed the instructions which had been given to him.  He
made it clear to the Congress of Verona that England would not sanction any project for the
interference of foreign sovereigns with the domestic affairs of Spain.  When the Duke found
that his arguments and his remonstrances were of no avail, he withdrew from the Congress altogether
and left the members of the Holy Alliance to take on themselves the full responsibility of
their own policy.  Now it would be hardly possible to overrate the importance of the step thus
taken by England at a great crisis in the public affairs of Europe.  The reign of George the
Fourth would be memorable in history if it had been consecrated by nothing but this event.
The utter disruption between the old state policy and the new was proclaimed by the instructions
which Canning sent to the Duke of Wellington, and which were faithfully carried out by the
Duke.  No English Government has, in later days, ventured to profess openly any other foreign
policy than that announced by Canning. Other ministers in later times may have attempted, now
and then, to swerve from it in this direction and in that, and to cover their evasion of it
by specious pleas, but the new doctrine set up by Canning has never since his time found avowed
apostates among English statesmen.  It would have been well if such a principle could have
inspired the foreign policy of England in the days when the French Revolution broke out, and
if England had then proclaimed that she would be no party to any attempt made by foreign States
to prevent the people of France from settling their own systems of government for themselves.
Europe might have been saved a series of disastrous wars.  France might have been relieved
from counter-revolutions, seasons of anarchy, and seasons of military despotism.  England might
long have had friendly neighbors where even yet she has perhaps only concealed enemies.

The designs of the Holy Alliance soon made themselves manifest.  The French Government had
brought so much pressure to bear on the feeble King of Spain that he revoked the Constitution
which, at a better moment, he had {43} granted to his people.  There was an attempt at revolution
in Spain, and the attempt was put down by the strong hand with the assistance of France, and
the leading rebels were at once conducted to the scaffold.  Portugal still kept those free
institutions which England had enabled her to preserve, and still retained her sympathy with
freedom.  Canning soon saw that a part of the policy of the French Government was to bring
Portugal also into subjection, and against this danger he provided by a bold announcement of
policy.  He declared in the House of Commons that if Portugal were, of her own accord, to engage
herself in a war with France, the English Government would not feel bound to take any active
part in the struggle, but that if the King of Spain were to accept or call in the assistance
of the King of France to suppress Portugal, the Government of England would put its armies
into the field to maintain its ancient ally.  Then there arose a great question concerning
the Spanish colonies and possessions across the Atlantic.  The policy of France was to enable
Spain to reconquer some of her American colonies which had long been withdrawing themselves
from their condition of subjection, and the scheme of French statesmen evidently was that Spain
would hand over some of her American possessions as a tribute of gratitude to France for the
services she had rendered to the cause of absolutism in Spain.

On this question, too, Canning announced to the House of Commons a determination on the part
of the English Government which put an effectual stop to this audacious policy.  Canning declared
that, although Spain had long since lost any real control over her transatlantic colonies,
yet if she were to attempt their actual reconquest for herself England, however little in sympathy
with such a purpose, might not feel that it was any part of her business to interfere by force
of arms.  But he went on to tell the House that, if Spain should claim the right to hand over
any of those colonies to France as a part of the policy arranged between France and Spain,
the English Government would then intervene directly and at once on behalf {44} of the Spanish-American
colonies.  This was the course of action which Canning described to the House of Commons in
an immortal phrase when he told the House "that he had called in the New World to redress the
balance of the Old."  No words employed by an English minister during the last century have
been more often quoted, and none have ever more thoroughly justified themselves in history.
The schemes of the French and the Spanish Bourbons were blighted in the bud by Canning's memorable
declaration.

[Sidenote: 1822-27--The Monroe Doctrine]

Canning had indeed called in the New World to redress the balance of the Old in a sense more
complete than the accepted meaning of his words, at the time, appeared to signify.  He had
secured for his policy the moral co-operation of the New World's greatest power--the Republic
of the United States.  It was on the inspiration of Canning that the President of the United
States embodied in a message to Congress that declaration of principle which has ever since
been known as the Monroe doctrine. President Monroe, who knew well that he was proclaiming
no doctrine which his influence and his authority with his country would not enable him to
carry out, made known to Congress that it was his intention to warn European sovereigns against
the danger of setting up their systems in any part of the New World.  The United States, according
to President Monroe's declaration, had no idea of interfering with existing systems, but if
European sovereigns were to set up governments of their own on any other part of the American
continents and against the wishes of the populations, the United States must regard any such
attempt as a menace and a danger to the American Republic.  This is in substance the meaning
of that Monroe doctrine which has often been criticised unfairly or ignorantly on this side
of the Atlantic, and its proclamation was undoubtedly due, at the time, to the advice which
came from George Canning.  President Monroe never meant to say that the Government of the United
States had any idea of interfering with British North America or with the Empire of Brazil.
The {45} Canadian provinces of Great Britain were, of course, perfectly free to remain a loyal
part of the British Empire so long as it suited the interests and the inclinations of the Canadians.
If the people of Brazil chose to be governed by an emperor, the United States Government did
not assert any right to interfere with their choice.  But what the Monroe doctrine did declare
was that if any foreign sovereigns attempted to bring liberated American colonies again under
their sway, or to set up by force new subject colonies on American shores against the wishes
of the populations concerned, the United States must regard such action as a menace and a danger
to the American Republic, and must not be expected to look quietly on without any attempt at
intervention.  This was, in the truest sense, the announcement of a policy of peace, for it
frankly made known to the despotic rulers of the Old World what their risk must be if they
ventured on the futile experiment of setting up despotic states on the shores of the New World.

It would have been well indeed if European monarchs at a later day had always remembered the
warning and rightly estimated its weight.  It would have been well for Louis Napoleon if at
the zenith of his imperial success he had studied that message of President Monroe and properly
interpreted its meaning.  Such a course would have prevented him from making his ill-starred
attempt to set up a Mexican Empire by the force of French arms on the ruins of a subjugated
Mexican Republic.  It would have saved him from defeat and disaster, and would have saved the
unhappy, ill-advised, and gallant Maximilian, his puppet emperor, from a tragic fate.  The
attempt to retrieve the disgrace of his enforced withdrawal from Mexico led Louis Napoleon
into that policy of the desperate gambler's last throw which ended in the occupation of Paris
and the fall of the Second Empire.

Meanwhile the policy of Canning had accomplished its purpose.  The Congress of Verona had been
an idle piece of business, the sovereigns of the Holy Alliance had found that their day was
done, and the New World had been successfully called in to redress the balance of the Old.

{46}

CHAPTER LXVI.

THE CLOSE OF CANNING'S CAREER.

[Sidenote: 1820-30--Sir William Knighton]

The King was at first disposed to show some alarm at the bold policy of Canning.  George, to
do him justice, was in general a lover of peace, and for a while he did not see how the declarations
of his Foreign Minister could lead to anything less than an outbreak of war on the part of
the Continental sovereigns, who thus seemed to be challenged to assert what they believed to
be their rights.  His doubt and dread took the form of more or less concealed grumblings against
Canning, and efforts to induce his other ministers to make a common cause with him against
the adventurous Foreign Minister.  Canning, however, saw that the crisis which he had to face
was one which makes a bold and resolute policy, frankly avowed on the part of a strong Government,
the best or the only means of securing peace.  He was able, after a while, to impress his royal
master with the justice of his belief, and the King graciously received the envoy accredited
to his Court on behalf of one of the new American Republics.  Then the rest of the work went
on smoothly, the lines of the new policy were laid down, and the sovereigns of the Holy Alliance
did not venture to transgress them.

The King was, at all times, much in the habit of attempting to make encroachments on the proper
domain of any minister who had the courage and the strength to oppose him, and Canning had
to endure a good deal of interference of this kind.  The Foreign Minister patiently and steadfastly
held his own, and George did not see his way to come to any open rupture.  The King found it
hard to make up his mind to settle down to the part of a purely constitutional sovereign. 
Perhaps the part had not yet {47} been clearly enough evolved from the conditions of the time,
and George, even when he had the best intentions, was always lapsing back into the way of his
predecessors.  George was a great letter-writer.  To adopt a modern phrase, he "fancied himself"
as a composer of State papers.  It seems marvellous now that a man so lazy by nature should
have found the time to pen so many documents of the kind.  Perhaps even in the most commonplace
ways of life we are often compelled to wonder at the amount of work a man habitually lazy can
sometimes contrive to cram into his day's doings.  George was now as much addicted to indolence,
to mere amusement, and to pleasures as he had been during earlier seasons of his career.  He
was just as fond of the society of his intimates and of all the pastimes and social enjoyments
in which he and they delighted.  He had not reformed any of his habits, and his growing years
did not bring him any steady resolve to apply himself to the actual business of his position.
Yet he seemed to be frequently inspired by fitful desires to display himself as the genuine
ruler of a State and to let his ministers know they must not attempt to do without him.

One of the King's prime favorites was Sir William Knighton, who had begun by being a physician,
had made his way into Court circles, and become the private and confidential adviser of the
King.  Sir William Knighton had been appointed to the office of Keeper of the Royal Purse,
and in that capacity he had rendered much service to George by endeavoring with skill and pertinacity
to keep income and expenditure on something more nearly approaching to a balance than had been
the way in former days.  Knighton's was not exactly a State office and it gave him no position
among ministers, but the King constantly used him as a go-between when he desired to have private
dealings with any of his recognized advisers, and Knighton was the recipient of his most confidential
communications.  From the letters and memoranda which belong to this time we are enabled to
learn much of the real feelings of King George towards some of his ministers, and to {48} understand
the difficulties with which Canning had to deal while endeavoring to make his enlightened policy
the accepted and recognized policy of England.

[Sidenote: 1822-27--The war of Greek independence]

The condition of Greece began to be a serious trouble to the statesmen of Europe.  Greece was
under the sway of the Sultan of Turkey, and its people may fairly be described as in a state
of chronic insurrection. The Greeks, even in their lowest degree of national decadence, were
far too intelligent, too ready-witted, and too persevering ever to become the mere slaves of
an Ottoman ruler.  There was something inextinguishable in the national life of the country,
and it seemed as if no pressure of tyranny, no amount of humiliation, could make the Greeks
forget the history of their glorious days and the deeds of their ancestry, or compel them to
stifle, even for a season, their hopes of national independence.  A great struggle broke out
against the Ottoman rule, and it roused the passionate sympathy of the lovers of freedom all
over the world.  Byron threw his whole soul into the cause, and stirred the hearts of his countrymen
by his appeals on behalf of the Greek struggle for independence.  Numbers of brave Englishmen
gladly risked their lives to help the Greeks.  Lord Cochrane, who was afterwards described
as the last of the English sea-kings, rushed over to Greece to give his genius and his daring
to the help of the Greeks in their struggle against overwhelming odds.  A speech of Lord John
Russell's which he delivered in the House of Commons within the hearing of living men described
with admirable effect the enthusiasm which was aroused in England for the cause of Greece and
the efforts which were openly made even by members of the ruling class to raise money and to
send out soldiers and sailors to enable the Greeks to hold their own against the Ottoman enemy.
Many Englishmen bearing historic names joined with Byron and Cochrane in giving their personal
help to the struggling Greeks, and indeed from every civilized country in the world such volunteers
poured in to stand by Bozzaris and Kanaris in their desperate fight for the rescue of Greece.
The odds, however, were heavily against the Greeks.  Their {49} supply of arms, ammunition,
and general commissariat for the field was poor and inadequate, and they were sadly wanting
in drill and organization.  Splendid feats of bravery were displayed on land and on sea, but
it seemed only too certain that if the Greeks were left to their own resources, or even if
they were not sustained by the open support of some great foreign State, the Ottoman Power
must triumph before long.

The best part of the war on the side of Turkey was carried on by Ibrahim Pasha, the adopted
son of Mehemet Ali, who ruled over Egypt as a vassal sovereign to the Sultan of Turkey.  Ibrahim
Pasha had great military capacity; he was full of energy, resource, and perseverance, and the
Turkish Sultan could not have had a better man to undertake the task of conducting the campaign.
The sympathies of Russia went strongly with the Greeks, or perhaps it might be more correct
to say that the policy of Russia was directed against the Turks.  At that time, as in later
days, the public opinion of Western Europe was not always certain whether the movements of
Russian statesmanship were governed more by the desire to strengthen Greece or by the desire
to weaken Turkey.  Canning had always been a sympathizer with the cause of Greece.  In his
early days his sympathy had taken poetic form, and now at last it had an opportunity of assuming
a more practical shape.  He would have wished well to any effort made by Russia for the emancipation
of Greece, but he feared that if the effort were to be left to Russia alone the result might
be a great European war, and his policy was above all things a policy of peace.  His idea was
to form an alliance which should exercise so commanding an influence as to render any prolonged
resistance impossible.  He succeeded in impressing his ideas and his arguments so effectively
upon the Governments of France and Russia as to induce them to enter into a treaty with England
for the avowed purpose of watching events in Eastern Europe, endeavoring to keep the conduct
of the war within the limits of humanity, and bringing it to as early a close as possible.

{50}

[Sidenote: 1824--Death of Lord Byron]

The combined fleets of the three Powers were sent into the Mediterranean for the purpose of
watching the movements of the Turkish and Egyptian fleets, which were threatening the shores
of Greece.  Sir Edward Codrington, the British Admiral, was in command of the expedition, and
his instructions enjoined on him, in the usual official way, the necessity of caution and circumspection
in all his movements. Something happened which brought the policy of caution to a speedy end.
A report, which found some credit at the time, gave out that Sir Edward Codrington had received
an unofficial hint that there was no necessity for carrying caution too far; but, however the
event may have been brought about, it is certain that a collision did take place between the
allied fleets and those which were championing the authority of the Sultan, and the result
was that the Turkish and Egyptian war vessels were destroyed.  This was the battle of Navarino,
which was afterwards described in the language of British authority as "an untoward event."
Untoward, in fact, it was not, for the purposes which Canning had in view, because it put an
end to all the resistance of the Ottoman Power, and the independence of Greece as a self-governing
nation was established, and recognized.  We have been somewhat anticipating events in order
not to break up the story of the Greek struggle for independence, but it has to be said that
Canning did not live to see the success of his own policy.  Before the battle of Navarino had
been fought, the career of the great statesman had come to an end.  We shall have to retrace
our steps, for there is much still left untold in the story of Canning's career.

That struggle for Greek independence will always be remembered in the history of English literature.
It cost England the life of one of her greatest modern poets.  Lord Byron died of fever in
the swamps of Missolonghi on April 19, 1824, not long after he had left the Greek Islands to
conduct his part of the campaign on the mainland of Greece. It was not his good fortune to
die sword in hand fighting on the battle-field for the cause which he loved so well.  It was
not his good fortune even to have had a {51} chance of doing much of a soldier's work in that
cause.  There can be no doubt that if he had been graced with opportunity he would have shown
that he had a leader's capacity as well as a soldier's courage--that, as Fortinbras says of
Hamlet, "He was likely had he been put on to have proved most royally."  He had only completed
his thirty-sixth year shortly before his death, and the poem in which he commemorated his birthday
can never be read without feelings of genuine emotion.  His death created a profound sensation,
not only in England, but all through the civilized world.  Not long since we were all favored
with an opportunity of hearing how the boy, afterwards to be famous as Alfred Tennyson, was
thrilled by the news of Byron's death, and how it seemed to him to be like the ending of the
world.  The passion of partisanship for and against Byron as a poet and as a man has long since
died away, and indeed it might perhaps be said that the reaction which, for a time, followed
the outburst of his fame has spent itself as well.  It may be taken now as the common judgment
of the world that Byron was one of the great forces of modern poetry, and that his political
sympathies sometimes had, as well as his poetic efforts, the inspiration of genius to guide them.

We must now return to the career of Canning as we left it at the time when he had made his
great declaration of policy with regard to the revolted colonies of Spain on the American shores,
and when he was as yet engaged in shaping the policy which was destined to end in the emancipation
of Greece.  There were questions of home government coming more and more to the front every
day, which much disturbed the mind of King George, and made the business of keeping an Administration
together more and more difficult for his advisers.  The financial policy of the country had
been gradually undergoing a change, owing to the foresight and enlightenment of some few among
English statesmen. Lord Liverpool, to do him justice, was always a man of somewhat advanced
views on questions of finance, although an inveterate Tory in all that related to popular representation
and freedom of speech. Canning and his {52} friend William Huskisson were leading the way in
the movement towards an enlightened financial system.  Huskisson had done more than any other
man, with the exception of Canning himself, to improve the systems of taxation.  What may perhaps
be called the scientific principle in the raising of revenue was only in process of development,
and to many statesmen no better idea of increasing supplies seemed to have occurred than the
simple plan of increasing the rate of custom or excise duty on the first article of general
consumption which came under notice.  Huskisson represented the new ideas, and put them into
action whenever he was allowed a fair chance of making such an experiment.  He had often held
administrative office, had been Secretary of the Treasury, President of the Board of Trade,
and Secretary for the Colonies, and had accomplished the removal of many restrictions on the
commercial dealings of the colonies with foreign countries and the reduction of many antiquated
and embarrassing import duties.

[Sidenote: 1770-1830--Daniel O'Connell]

Canning and Huskisson were always close friends and often ministerial colleagues, and they
two may be said to have led the way towards the system of free trade to which the time had
not yet come for Robert Peel to give his complete adhesion.  The great question of electoral
reform was coming up, and Charles Grey and Henry Brougham were among its most conspicuous leaders.
Canning did not take to Parliamentary reform, although he was what might be described as an
advanced Liberal on most other questions of national importance.  The Duke of Wellington was
strongly opposed to any proposals for a change in the Parliamentary system, and this was one
of the few great questions on which Canning and he were in habitual agreement.  Then there
was the still more pressing question of political equality for the Catholics of the three kingdoms.
Lord John Russell succeeded later on in carrying the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts
which precluded Protestant Dissenters from holding political or municipal office, but the attempt
to obtain the rights of equal citizenship for subjects of the King who belonged {53} to the
Church of Rome had to encounter much greater difficulties.

As might easily be expected, Ireland became the main battle-field of this struggle.  We have
already recorded the fact that Pitt had been greatly assisted in passing the Act of Union between
Great Britain and Ireland and abolishing Grattan's Parliament by the hopes which he held out
that the union of the legislatures would be followed by a complete measure of Catholic emancipation.
George the Third refused point-blank to give his assent to any such measure, or even to listen
to any proposal for its introduction, declaring again and again that his coronation oath absolutely
forbade him to entertain an idea of the kind.  In the end, as we have seen, Pitt gave in and
undertook never again to worry the mind of his conscientious sovereign by any talk about relief
to George the Third's Roman Catholic subjects.  But it soon became evident that in this as
in other instances the resolve of the most headstrong monarch, and the promise of the most
yielding Prime Minister, cannot always induce a population to put up passively with a manifest
grievance.  In Ireland, where six out of every seven of the people belonged to the Church of
Rome, and where the demand for Catholic Emancipation had long been championed by the greatest
and the most patriotic of Protestant Irishmen, it was utterly impossible that any King and
any minister could impose submission on such a question. By the time at which we have now arrived
the Catholics of Ireland had found a political leader of their own faith.

Daniel O'Connell was undoubtedly one of the greatest advocates a popular cause has ever had
in modern times.  He was an Irishman who had become one of the most successful advocates in
the Irish law courts, and as a popular orator he had no rival in his own country.  He had made
himself the leader in Ireland of the movement for Catholic Emancipation, and he had kindled
an enthusiasm there which any English statesman of ordinary intelligence and foresight might
easily have seen it would be impossible to extinguish so long as there was a struggle to be
fought.  {54} Canning had always been in favor of Catholic Emancipation.  Lord Liverpool was,
of course, entirely opposed to it, and almost until the last the Duke of Wellington held out
against it. George the Fourth, for all his earlier associations with Fox and Sheridan, declared
himself now to have inherited to the full his father's indomitable conscientious objection
to any measure of Catholic Emancipation.  George seemed, in fact, to have suddenly become filled
with a passionate fervor of Protestant piety when any one talked to him about political equality
for his Catholic subjects.  He declared again and again that no earthly consideration could
induce him to fall away from the religious convictions of his father on this subject, and the
coronation oath had again become, to use Erskine's satirical phrase, "one of the four orders
of the State."  When reading some of George's letters and discourses on the subject, it is
almost impossible not to believe that he really must have fancied himself in earnest when he
made such protestations.  In private life he frequently delivered long speeches, sometimes
with astonishing fluency, sometimes with occasional interruptions of stammering, in vindication
of his hostility to any proposal for Catholic Emancipation.

[Sidenote: 1827--Lord Liverpool's successor]

In the common language of the political world of that time the members of a Government who
opposed the Catholic claims were called Protestant ministers, and the members in favor of the
Catholic claims were described as Catholic ministers.  In fact, it has had to be explained,
for the sake of clearness, by some recent writers, that the word "Catholic" was constantly
used in George the Fourth's time merely to signify pro-Catholic.  When Canning was spoken of
as a Catholic statesman there was not the least idea of describing him as a member of the Church
of Rome, and, indeed, the words "Roman Catholic" hardly come up in the controversies of those
days.  When Mr. Lecky spoke during a recent Parliamentary debate of Catholics and Protestants,
he was gravely rebuked by some divines of the Established Church who were under the impression
that he was in some way or other truckling to the {55} claims of the Papacy when he used the
word "Catholic" to describe the worshippers in the Church of Rome.  Mr. Lecky was put to the
trouble of explaining that he used the words "Protestant" and "Catholic" in the ordinary significance
given to them during long generations of political controversy.

A crisis was suddenly brought about by the illness of Lord Liverpool. The Protestant statesman
was stricken down by an attack which for a time deprived him of consciousness, and even after
his partial recovery left him in a state which made it clear to all his friends that his work
as an administrator was done.  There was no hope whatever of his resuming official work, and
the question which mainly occupied the mind of the King and of those around him was not what
was to become of Lord Liverpool, but whom it would be most convenient for the King to appoint
as his successor.  Naturally every eye was turned on Canning, whether in hope or in fear. 
As Lord Palmerston said of himself many years later, so it might be said of Canning, he was
the "inevitable man." The whole civilized world was filled with his fame.  His course of policy
had made England stronger than she had ever been since the death of the younger Pitt.  Even
King George could not venture to believe in the possibility of passing him over, and King George's
chief objection to him was found in the fact that Canning was in favor of the Catholic claims.
George thought the matter over a few days, consulted Lord Eldon and other advisers, and found
that nobody could inspire him with any real hope of being able to form an enduring Ministry
without Canning.

Then the King sent for Canning, and Canning made his own course quite clear.  He came to the
point at once.  He assumed that the great difficulty was to be found in the pressure of the
Catholic question, and he advised the King to form a Ministry of his own way of thinking on
that subject and to do the best he could.  The King, however, explained that it would be futile
for him to think that any Ministry so composed could carry on the work of administration just
then, and he gave Canning many {56} assurances of his own entire approval of his foreign policy,
and declared that no one knew better than he did how much the power of England had increased
with Continental States since Canning had obtained the conduct of her foreign affairs.  Thus
urged, Canning consented to undertake the formation of a Ministry, but he did so on the express
condition that he should not only have the King's full confidence and be free to take his own
course, but that he should be known to hold such a position and to have the absolute authority
of the sovereign to sustain him.  Canning's mind was, in fact, clearly made up.  He would either
be a real Prime Minister, or he would have no place in the new Administration, and would become
once again an independent member.  There was nothing else to be done, and the King gave Canning
full authority to make his own arrangements.

[Sidenote: 1827--Defection among Canning's supporters]

The task which Canning had nominally undertaken was the reconstruction of the Ministry, but
no one knew better than he did that it really amounted to the formation of a new Ministry.
Canning was well aware that the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel would not consent to
serve under him in any Administration.  The Duke of Wellington was at this time entirely opposed
to any recognition of the Catholic claims, and, more than that, he had never been in favor
of the principles of foreign policy adopted and proclaimed by Canning.  Between the two men,
indeed, there was very little political sympathy, and Canning had got it into his mind, rightly
or wrongly, that the Duke of Wellington had done his best to disparage him and to weaken his
authority as Foreign Minister.  Sir Robert Peel occupied a somewhat different position.  He,
too, was opposed to the Catholic claims; but he was a statesman of a far higher order than
the Duke of Wellington, and it might always safely be assumed of him that he would rightly
estimate the force of public opinion, and that when a great movement of political reform had
proved itself to be irresistible Peel would never encourage a policy of futile resistance.

Peel's attitude is well described in the admirable life of {57} George Canning published by
Mr. Frank Harrison Hill in 1887.  "Peel," says Mr. Hill, "did not believe in governing against
Parliamentary and public opinion."  "To him the art of government was the measurement of social
forces, and the adaptation of policy to their direction and intensity. When it was clear to
him that a thing must be done, and that his help was essential to the doing of it, his duty
was plainly marked out."  Up to this time, however, Peel did not see that the Catholic question
had reached such a stage, and he probably did not believe that it would ever reach such a stage.
He had opposed Catholic claims thus far whenever the opportunity arose, and he could not undertake
to serve under a Prime Minister who was openly in favor of recognizing those claims.  We shall
have to tell, before long, in the course of this history, how Peel came to see that Canning
was right in his policy, and how he came to be the Prime Minister by whom it was carried to
success, and how he brought the Duke of Wellington along with him.  But at the time which we
have now reached Peel still believed his own policy on the subject of Roman Catholic Emancipation
to be the rightful policy for the guidance of the sovereign and the State, and he therefore
found it impossible to serve in the new Administration.  Five other members of the existing
Government, besides Sir Robert Peel, resigned their places on the same grounds.  One was, of
course, the Duke of Wellington, and another was Lord Chancellor Eldon.  Some influential peers
who were not members of the Government made it known that they could not give their support
to any Administration which admitted the possibility of recognizing the Catholic claims.

Canning's heart might well have sunk within him for a time when he found himself abandoned
by such colleagues and thrown over by such supporters.  He actually waited upon the King, and
asked his permission to give up the undertaking for the formation of a new Ministry.  The King,
however, probably felt that he had gone too far in his support of Canning to draw back at such
a moment.  It is very likely that he was displeased by the pertinacity of {58} the resistance
which men like Wellington and Peel and Eldon offered to any act of policy approved by him,
and he had undoubtedly by this time come to have a strong faith, not only in Canning's capacity,
but also in Canning's good fortune. Whatever may have been his chief inspiration, he certainly
had an opportune season of enlightenment, and he refused to allow Canning to withdraw from
the task assigned to him.  Accordingly Canning became Prime Minister, and united in his own
person the offices of First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.

[Sidenote: 1827--Canning and Lord Grey]

Sir John Copley, raised to the peerage under the title of Lord Lyndhurst, became Lord Chancellor
in succession to Lord Eldon, and the House of Lords thus obtained a member who was destined
to be one of its foremost orators, to maintain a rivalry in Parliamentary debate with Brougham
and the great Tory orator and leader, Lord Derby, and to be listened to with admiration by
men still living, who are proud to remember that they heard some of his great speeches.  It
may be observed that Lord Eldon, whose retirement made way for Lord Lyndhurst, had been Lord
Chancellor for twenty-six years, with the exception of one year when he was out of office.
Huskisson became Treasurer of the Navy and President of the Board of Trade in the new Administration.
Lord Palmerston was Secretary at War, and Frederick Robinson, now made Lord Goderich, who was
in thorough sympathy with Canning and Huskisson on questions of financial policy, was Colonial
and War Secretary, the latter office according to the arrangements of that time a position
having quite different functions from those of the Secretary of War. The arrangements for the
new Ministry were completed in April, 1827. Canning had now reached the highest point of his
career.  His policy had already been marked out for him, for England, and for Europe.  The
treaty between England, France, and Russia for the protection of Greece, which became a formal
instrument after his accession to the office of Prime Minister, was the result of the efforts
which he had made before Lord Liverpool's sudden illness {59} led to the break-up of the Liverpool
Administration.  Canning had little time left him to turn his new and great position to account.
Fame, as Mr. Hill well says, was a sucked orange to George Canning when he accepted the office
of Prime Minister.

The difficulties against which the new Ministry had to contend were many and great.  Canning
had the support of such Whigs as Brougham in the House of Commons, but in the House of Lords
he had many powerful opponents, and the influence of the House of Lords then counted for more
than it does at present.  In the House of Lords, too, Lord Grey bitterly and pertinaciously
opposed him.  Grey was then one of the leading advocates of Parliamentary reform, and Canning
could not see his way to ally himself with the Parliamentary reformers.  Lord Grey, moreover,
seems to have distrusted the sincerity of Canning's support of Catholic emancipation, a distrust
for which no possible reason can be suggested; and, indeed, Grey would appear to have had a
feeling of personal dislike to the great statesman.  Accordingly he made several attacks on
Canning and Canning's policy in the House of Lords, and Grey was an eloquent speaker, whose
style as well as his character carried command with it.  Canning was a man of singularly sensitive
nature. Like many other brilliant humorists and satirists, he was somewhat thin-skinned and
very quick of temper.  He could bear a brilliant and even a splendid part in the Parliamentary
battle, but it was a pain to him to endure in silence when he had no chance of making a retort.
The attacks of Lord Grey exasperated him beyond measure, and it is believed that he had at
one time a strong inclination to accept a peerage and take a seat in the House of Lords, thereby
withdrawing forever from the inspiriting battle-ground of the House of Commons for the mere
sake of having an opportunity of replying to the attacks of Lord Grey, and measuring his strength
against that of the great Whig leader.  The fates, however, denied to Canning any chance of
making this curious anticlimax in his great political career.  His health had always been more
or less delicate, and he was {60} never very careful or sparing in the use of his physical
powers.  He was intensely nervous by constitution, and was liable to all manner of nervous
seizures and maladies.  In the early days of 1827 he caught a severe cold while attending the
public funeral of the Duke of York in the Chapel Royal, Windsor.

[Sidenote: 1827--Death of Canning]

The Duke of York was the second son of George the Third, and for some time had been regarded
as heir-presumptive to the crown.  The Duke's public career was in almost every way ignoble.
He had proved himself an utterly incapable commander, although a good War Office administrator,
and his personal character was about on a level with his military capacity.  His death in January,
1827, may be said to have had two serious consequences at least--it made the Duke of Clarence
the next heir to the crown, and it brought on Canning the severe cold from which he never recovered.
It may be mentioned here, although the fact is of little political importance, that Canning
when he became Prime Minister made the Duke of Clarence Lord High Admiral.  The office was
probably bestowed as a token of Canning's gratitude to the King who had stood by him, not indeed
to the last, but at the last.  It certainly could not have been given because of any conviction
in Canning's mind that the Duke of Clarence was likely to render signal benefit to the royal
navy, to the State, or to the country by his services in such an office.

Canning seemed for a while to rally from the cold which he had caught at the Duke of York's
funeral, but the months of incessant anxiety which followed cast too heavy a burden on his
shattered nerves and feeble physical frame.  It was hoped by his friends that the adjournment
of the Houses of Parliament, which took place after the Ministry had been formed, might give
him rest enough from official work to allow him to repair his strength.  But Canning's was
not a nature which admitted of rest.  The happy faculty which he had once possessed of getting
easily to sleep when the day's work was done had long since deserted him, and of late he took
his official cares to bed with him, and they kept him long awake.  The early {61} summer of
1827 brought him no improvement, and his friends already began to fear for the worst.  He suffered
from intense agonies of nervous pain, and the agonies seemed to grow worse and worse with each
return.  The Duke of Devonshire offered him the use of a summer residence which he had at Chiswick,
and Canning gladly accepted the offer.  It was remarked at the time by some of his friends
that an evil omen hung over this summer retreat.  The former Duke of Devonshire, father of
Canning's friend, had offered the same villa as a temporary retreat to Charles James Fox; the
offer was accepted by him, and Fox actually died in the bedroom which was now occupied by Canning.

The omen soon made good its warning.  Canning gradually sank under the influence of his fatal
illness.  He said to a friend that during three days he had suffered more pain than all that
had been compressed into his life up to that time, and we know that his was a frame which was
always liable to acute pain.  He sank and sank, and on August 7 he talked for the last time
coherently and composedly to those who were around him.  Then he met his approaching death
with a resigned and cheerful spirit, and his latest words showed that he knew where to repose
his trust for the great change which was so near.  Shortly before four o'clock on the morning
of August 8, 1827, the struggle was over and the great statesman was at rest.  Even at that
early hour the villa was surrounded by a large crowd of anxious watchers, who could not leave
the grounds until they heard the last tidings that were to come from the sick-chamber.  The
funeral of Canning in Westminster Abbey, although it was in name a private ceremonial, was
followed by a throng of sorrowing admirers, among whom were princes and nobles, statesmen and
prelates, politicians of all orders, and men and women of all ranks down to the very poorest,
who thus bore their spontaneous tribute to the services and the memory of the great Prime Minister,
and expressed in the only way left to them their sense of the loss which his country and the
cause of peace and freedom had sustained by his death.

{62}

[Sidenote: 1827--Canning and the English ministers]

Canning had only just completed his fifty-seventh year when his career came to a close.  He
died before his old friend and colleague whose sudden illness had left open to him the place
of Prime Minister, for Lord Liverpool did not die until December 4 of the following year. 
The place of Canning in English history is more clear to us now than it was to the world even
when the anxious crowd was watching round the villa at Chiswick and when the throng followed
his remains to Westminster Abbey.  He was, as we have already said, the founder of that system
of foreign policy which English statesmanship has professed ever since his time.  His was that
doctrine of conditional non-intervention for which, in later days, men like John Stuart Mill
contended as the doctrine which ought to be the governing principle of a great council of European
States, if such could be established.  Canning's idea was not that England should proclaim
such a principle of non-intervention as that which Cobden and Bright, and other men equally
sincere and patriotic, endeavored to impress on public opinion at a later day. Canning's principle
was that England should not intervene even on the right side of any Continental struggle in
which she had no direct concern, unless some other State equally free from any direct share
in the controversy were making preparation to intervene on the wrong side. Then, according
to his doctrine, England was bound to say to the interposing State: "If you, an outsider to
this controversy, are making up your mind to intervene on what we believe to be the wrong side,
then it may become our duty to intervene on what we believe to be the right side."  It was
in accordance with this principle that Canning prevailed upon the Governments of France and
Russia to enter into that engagement with England which secured the independence of Greece,
as it was in accordance with this principle that he had made the proclamation of policy which
secured the independence of the Spanish-American colonies, and thus called in the New World
to redress the balance of the Old.

Canning must, on the whole, be ranked among great Liberal statesmen, although there were some
passages in {63} his career which showed that he had not advanced quite so far in Liberal principles
as some of the statesmen of his own day.  It is hard now to understand how such a man could
have stood out against the principle of Parliamentary reform and popular suffrage, and could
have resisted the efforts to give full rights of citizenship to the members of dissenting denominations.
It is especially hard to understand why a man who was in favor of abolishing religious disqualifications
in the case of Roman Catholics should have thought it right to maintain them in the case of
Protestant Dissenters.  The explanation of this latter inconsistency may be found, perhaps,
in the assumption that when Canning thought of the grievance to Roman Catholics he had in his
mind the grievances to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, a separate country with a nationality
and traditions of her own, and a country in which the vast majority of the population belonged
to the one religious faith.  He may have thought that the English Protestant Dissenters who
did not see their way to class themselves with the Protestants of the English State Church
had not so distinct a claim to the recognition of their grievance.  It may seem strange that
a mind like Canning's could have been beguiled from the acceptance of a great principle by
a curious distinction of this kind, but it must be remembered that down to a much later day
many of the professed supporters of religious equality contended for some limitation of the
principle where political privileges were concerned, and that only in our own time has admission
to the House of Commons been left open to the professors of every religious faith, and even
to those who profess no religious faith at all.  So far as Parliamentary reform in the ordinary
sense of the words is concerned, we may feel quite sure that if Canning had lived a few years
longer his mind would have accepted the growth of public opinion and the evidences which justified
that growth, and he would not have been found among the unteachable opponents of popular suffrage
and a well-adjusted Parliamentary representation.

As a financial reformer he was distinctly in advance of {64} his time, and even such men as
Sir Robert Peel only followed slowly in the path which Canning and Huskisson had opened.  Canning's
fame as a Parliamentary orator is now well assured.  He has been unduly praised, and he has
been unduly disparaged.  He has been described as the greatest Parliamentary orator since the
days of Bolingbroke, and he has been described as a brilliant and theatric declaimer who never
rose to the height of genuine political oratory.  The common judgment of educated men now regards
him as only inferior, if inferior at all, to the two Pitts and Fox among great Parliamentary
orators, and the rival of any others belonging to his own, or an earlier, or a later day in
the history of the English Parliament.  Of him it may fairly be said that his career made an
era in England's political life, and that the great principles which he asserted are still
guiding the country even at this hour.

{65}

CHAPTER LXVII.

"THE CHAINS OF THE CATHOLIC."

[Sidenote: 1827--Lord Goderich]

During the closing days of Canning's life he was speaking to Sir William Knighton of the approaching
end, and he said, quietly: "This may be hard upon me, but it is still harder upon the King."
There was something characteristic in the saying.  Canning had been greatly touched by the
manner in which the King had, at last, come round to him and stood by him against all who endeavored
to interpose between him and his sovereign; and to a man of Canning's half-poetic temperament
the sovereign typified the State and the people, to whom the Prime Minister was but a devoted
servant.  It was certainly hard upon the King, at least for the time.  George must have had
moments of better feelings and better inspirations than those which governed the ordinary course
of his life, and he had lately come to realize the value of the services which Canning had
rendered to England.  We shall see, before long, that a secession of Canning's followers from
the party in power took place, and that the seceding men were called, and called themselves,
the "Canningites."  George already appears to have become a Canningite.

The King had a good deal of trouble in forming an Administration.  Lord Goderich became Prime
Minister, with Lyndhurst again as Lord Chancellor, and Huskisson in Goderich's former place
at the War and Colonial Office.  Lord Goderich, as we have seen, had been sent into the House
of Lords when Canning became Prime Minister.  Up to that time he was Mr. Frederick John Robinson,
generally known by the nickname of "Prosperity Robinson."  This satirical designation he obtained
from the fact that while he was President of the Board of Trade, and {66} still later when
he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had always made it his business in each session to describe
the country as in a condition of unparalleled prosperity.  More than that, he always insisted
on declaring that the particular schemes of taxation that he brought forward were destined,
beyond all possibility of doubt, to increase still further that hitherto unexampled prosperity.
It had been his fortune, in his early official career, to propose and carry some schemes of
taxation which met with such passionate opposition in some parts of the country as to lead
to serious rioting and even to loss of life.  But all the time he saw only prosperity as the
result of his financial enterprises, and hence the nickname, which is still remembered in England's
Parliamentary history.

[Sidenote: 1828--The struggle for religious equality]

Lord Goderich was not a man of remarkable political capacity, and he was a poor, ineffective,
and even uninteresting speaker, except when the audacity of his statements, and his prophecies,
and the tumult of interruptions and laughter that they created, lent a certain Parliamentary
interest to his orations.  He had an immense amount of that sort of courage which, in the colloquial
language of our times, would probably be described as bumptiousness.  He had an unlimited faith
in his own capacity, and he saw nothing but success, personal and national, where observers
in general could discern only failure.  He was one of a class of men who are to be found at
all times of Parliamentary history, and who manage somehow, nobody quite knows how, to make
themselves appear indispensable to their political party.  He was not, however, without any
faculty for improvement, and of late years he had derived some instruction from Canning's teaching
and example in politics and in finance.  Such as he was, his appointment as Prime Minister
in succession to Canning seemed about the safest compromise the King could make under all the
existing conditions.  His position as a stop-gap was maintained but a very short time.  During
his Administration, or perhaps it ought rather to be called his nominal Administration, the
substantial result of Canning's recent foreign policy was seen in the destruction {67} of the
Turkish and Egyptian fleets at the battle of Navarino, which led almost immediately to the
Sultan's acknowledgment of the independence of Greece.

Some differences of opinion on financial questions soon broke out in the Cabinet, and Huskisson
and certain of his colleagues threatened to resign; and Lord Goderich, seeing little or no
chance of maintaining himself long in his position, got out of the difficulty by tendering
his own resignation.  The King accepted the resignation, and there was then really only one
man, the Duke of Wellington, to whom George could look for the construction of a Government.
Accordingly, the Duke became First Lord of the Treasury, and Huskisson retained, for the time,
his former position.  During this Administration Lord John Russell brought forward his motion
for the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts; the object of the motion being to abolish
all the conditions which rendered it impossible for the members of any Protestant dissenting
denomination to hold State or municipal office, unless they were willing to accept a test-oath,
which acknowledged the spiritual supremacy of the Church of England.  Lord John Russell's motion
was carried in the House of Commons by a majority of 237 to 193, and a Bill founded on the
principle of the motion was passed through both Houses of Parliament.  This may be described
as the first of the great measures accepted by Parliament for the purpose of establishing the
principle of religious equality, in admission to the rights of citizenship, among the inhabitants
of these countries.  Of course, the establishment of religious equality was yet a good long
way off, and it is a curious fact that the measure that was founded on Lord John Russell's
motion did something very distinct in itself to make new battle-grounds for those who advocated
the full recognition of the principle.

The new measure proposed to admit the members of all recognized Protestant denominations, whether
inside or outside the Church of England, to the rights of citizenship, but it took good care
to affirm that it had no intention of admitting any one else.  The Act provided that all {68}
persons presenting themselves as candidates for election to political or municipal office should
subscribe a declaration "on the true faith of a Christian."  This, of course, excluded Jews
and Freethinkers, while the Roman Catholics were shut out by a special oath, directed exclusively
against themselves, and to which it was impossible that any professing Catholic could subscribe.
Lord John Russell, however, had begun his great career well when he carried the Legislature
with him, even thus far, on the way to religious equality, although he was not himself destined
to see the last fight which had to be fought before the principle had been completely established.
It is almost needless to say that the new form of pledge introduced by the measure was no part
of Lord John Russell's plan, but he accepted the Bill as amended in the House of Lords rather
than sacrifice, for the time, the whole purpose of his motion.  The motion, it may be added,
was strongly opposed in the House of Commons, not only by Robert Peel, but by Huskisson.  Peel's
opposition is easily to be understood, because up to this time he had not risen above the convictions
with which he started in public life in favor of the general practice of making the political
and civic rights of citizenship conditional upon what he believed to be religious orthodoxy.
In the case of Huskisson, who was a strong supporter of the admission of Roman Catholics to
full equality of political and civic rights with the members of the State Church, the explanation
probably was that he feared if the Dissenters received their rights in advance they might become
less zealous than many of them had been for the full recognition of the Catholic claims. Some
of the archbishops and bishops in the House of Lords were liberal enough to give their support
to the Bill, much to the consternation of Lord Eldon, who could not understand how any prelate
of the State Church could be so far led away from the sacred duties of his position as to lend
any countenance to a measure admitting the unorthodox to the place in society which ought to
be the right only of orthodox believers.

[Sidenote: 1828--The Catholic Association]

It is interesting to notice that a protest was entered {69} against the introduction of the
words "on the true faith of a Christian" by Lord Holland, who represented the principles of
Charles James Fox.  The peers, it should be said, enjoy the privilege, which is not allowed
to members of the representative chamber, of recording their formal protest on the books of
their House against any motion or measure which has been carried in spite of their opposition,
and of setting forth reasons on which their objection is founded.  Many of the protests thus
recorded form important contributions to political history.  Lord Holland vindicates his protest
in words which are well worth quoting: "Because the introduction of the words 'upon the true
faith of a Christian' implies an opinion in which I cannot conscientiously concur, namely,
that a particular faith in matters of religion is necessary to the proper discharge of duties
purely political or temporal."  Lord Eldon strongly condemned the action of the prelates who
had voted in favor of the measure, and he used some words which showed that, however obtuse
his bigotry may have been, he clearly saw what must inevitably come from the concession to
religious liberty which was made by the passing of such a measure.  "Sooner or later," he said,
"perhaps in this very year, almost certainly in the next, the concessions to the Dissenters
must be followed by the like concessions to the Roman Catholics."  The Roman Catholic claims
were already asserting themselves with a force which appealed irresistibly to the minds of
all enlightened men.

The Catholic Association had been formed in Ireland for the purpose of advocating the claims
of the vast majority of the Irish people, and it had found for its leader a man who must have
made a great figure in the political life of any era, and who was especially qualified to take
a leading place in such an agitation.  Daniel O'Connell was one of the most remarkable men
of his time.  He was the first Irish political leader of modern days who professed the faith
which may be called the national creed of his people.  The leaders of great Irish movements
just before his time--the Fitzgeralds, the Tones, and the Emmets--had {70} had been, like Grattan
himself, members of the Established Church. O'Connell had, moreover, no sympathy whatever with
the sentiments of the French Revolution.  He had passed a few of his early years in France,
he had seen some of the later excesses of the revolutionary period, and he had been inspired
with a horror as great as that felt by Edmund Burke for the extravagances of the revolutionary
era.  He belonged to the landlord class, but his sympathies had always been with the popular
and national movements of his countrymen.  He had practised at the Irish bar, and had become
the greatest advocate in the Irish law courts, and was thus enabled to combine with all the
fire and energy of a born popular leader the subtlety and craft of a trained and practised
lawyer.  O'Connell was one of the greatest orators of a day when political oratory could display
some of its most splendid illustrations.  He had a commanding presence, indeed a colossal form,
and a voice which was marvellous alike for the strength and the music of its varied intonations.
Such men as Disraeli and Bulwer Lytton have borne enthusiastic tribute to the magic of that
voice, and have declared it to be unrivalled in the political eloquence of the time. O'Connell
made his voice heard at many great public meetings in England and in Scotland, as well as in
Ireland, and his political views had, indeed, much in common with those of English and Scottish
advanced Liberals.

[Sidenote: O'Connell and the Parliamentary Oath]

The Catholic Association was made, at one period of its career, the subject of an Act of Parliament
which declared it to be, for a certain time, an illegal organization, and the period was now
approaching when the prohibitory Act would have to be renewed or allowed to drop out of existence.
In consequence of some ministerial rearrangements a vacancy had arisen in the Parliamentary
representation of the county of Clare in Ireland, and O'Connell resolved on taking a bold and
what then seemed to many a positively desperate step.  He announced himself as a candidate
for the vacancy in opposition to its former occupant, who, having been appointed to ministerial
office, was compelled to resign his place in the House of {71} Commons and offer himself to
his former constituents for re-election.  O'Connell was not disqualified by positive enactment
from becoming a candidate for a seat in Parliament; that is to say, there was no law actually
declaring that a Roman Catholic, as such, could not enter the House of Commons.  But, as we
have explained already, it was the law of the land that no man could take his seat in that
House until he had subscribed an oath which it was perfectly impossible for any Roman Catholic
to accept, an oath disavowing and denouncing the very opinions which are an essential part
of the Roman Catholic's faith.  O'Connell, therefore, could not be prevented from becoming
a candidate for the representation of Clare, and when the contest came on it ended in his being
triumphantly returned by an overwhelming majority.  O'Connell presented himself at the table
of the House of Commons, and was called upon to subscribe the usual oath, which, of course,
he absolutely refused to do.  He was then ordered to withdraw, and he did withdraw, and the
seat was declared vacant.  O'Connell returned to Clare, again offered himself as candidate,
and was again elected by a triumphant majority.  Then, indeed, men like Lord Eldon must have
begun to think that the old world was really coming to an end.  King George and the Government
found themselves face to face with a crisis to which there had been no parallel in the memory
of living statesmen.

The progress of events was, meanwhile, making a deep impression on the receptive mind of Sir
Robert Peel, now Home Secretary, and by far the most rising and powerful member of the Administration.
Huskisson, it should be said, had by this time ceased to belong to the Duke of Wellington's
Government.  There had been some misunderstanding between him and the Duke, arising out of
a speech made by Huskisson in Liverpool, which was understood to contain a declaration that
Huskisson had only accepted office on the express understanding that the policy of the Duke's
Government was to be the policy of Canning.  The Duke took exception to this, and declared
that he had entered into no understanding as to his general {72} policy, but that what Huskisson
probably had said was that he had accepted the composition of the Government as a guarantee
in itself that a sound national policy was to be carried out.

[Sidenote: 1828--Demand for Catholic emancipation]

Huskisson accepted the explanation, and explained that this was what he really had said, and
no doubt this was really the purpose of that passage in his speech; but the incident led to
some friction between the two men, and was the beginning of other misunderstandings.  Some
difference of opinion afterwards arose on minor questions of policy, and Huskisson sent to
the Duke a somewhat hasty letter announcing his resignation.  The letter was intended to be
only a conditional intimation of his purpose, but the Duke took it as positive and final, and
announced it as such to the King.  There was no course left open to Huskisson but to resign.
The incident created much talk at the time, and gave rise to a good deal of satirical comment.
Several other members of the Government, among whom was Lord Palmerston, resigned along with
Huskisson, and they formed themselves into an independent party, bearing the name of the Canningites.
It is curious to notice that the reconstructions caused in the Government by these resignations,
and the new appointments which had to be made, led to that vacancy in the county of Clare which
gave O'Connell an opportunity of coming forward as a candidate for the seat and being elected.

Peel saw that the Duke of Wellington's Government had lost some of its most influential members.
Other events, too, had been turning his attention towards the growth of the agitation in Ireland.
The Marquis of Wellesley, elder brother of the Duke of Wellington, had been Viceroy of Ireland.
Wellesley had been a distinguished statesman, and as Viceroy of India had conducted to a successful
issue, with the help of his younger brother, the great Mahratta war.  When he became Viceroy
of Ireland he had gone over to that country as a strong opponent of the Catholic claims, but
his experience there soon convinced him that it would be impossible to resist those claims
much longer, and at the same time {73} to keep Ireland in tranquillity.  Therefore, when the
Duke of Wellington, on coming into office as Prime Minister, refused to recognize the Catholic
claims, Lord Wellesley resigned his place.  He was succeeded by the Marquis of Anglesey, a
soldier who had done brilliant service in the wars against Napoleon, and was well known as
a determined opponent of the demands made by the advocates of Catholic emancipation.  Lord
Anglesey, too, became satisfied during his time of office in Ireland that there was no alternative
between emancipation and an armed rebellion among the Irish Catholics, a large number of whom
were actually serving in the ranks of the army.  His opinions were again and again impressed
on the Government, and the course he took only led to his recall from the Viceroyalty.

In the House of Commons an event took place which had a great effect on the mind of Peel. 
Early in 1828 Sir Francis Burdett, who held a very prominent place among the more advanced
reformers of the time, and who represented Westminster in the House of Commons, brought forward
a resolution inviting the House to consider the state of the laws affecting the Roman Catholics
of the two islands, "with a view to such a final and conciliatory settlement as may be conducive
to the peace and strength of the United Kingdom, to the stability of the Protestant Establishment,
and to the general satisfaction and concord of all classes of his Majesty's subjects."  The
resolution was supported by a powerful speech from Brougham, in which he dwelt on the fact
that not one of those who opposed the motion had expressed any conviction that the existing
state of things could long continue, and that it was impossible to overlook or deny the great
advance which the movement for Catholic Emancipation had been making in and out of Parliament.
Peel was greatly impressed by this argument, and also by the fact that the men who supported
Burdett and Brougham in the House of Commons represented the best part of the intellect and
statesmanship of that House.  The resolution was carried by 272 votes against 266 on the other
side, a small majority, {74} indeed, but a majority that at such a time was large enough to
show a man of Peel's intellect the practical progress which the demand for Catholic Emancipation
had already made.

[Sidenote: 1828--Peel and Catholic emancipation]

We find in Peel's own correspondence the most interesting evidences of the influence which
all these events were making on his clear and thoughtful mind.  The man whom O'Connell had
defeated in Clare, Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald, had represented the constituency for many years, had
always supported by speeches and votes the claims of the Catholics, and was the son of one
who had stood by the side of Grattan and Sir John Parnell in resisting the Act of Union.  No
one could have been more popular up to that time among Irishmen, and the election of O'Connell
was obviously due to the fact that O'Connell had made himself the leader of a movement which
had for its object to bring about a great crisis, and to compel the Parliament and the Government
to surrender at once or encounter a civil war.

Peel became gradually convinced that the Marquis of Anglesey was right in his views, and that
there was no choice between a recognition of the Catholic claims and the outbreak of a civil
war in Ireland.  The more he thought over the question, the more he became convinced that it
would not be possible to rely on the loyalty of all {75} the Catholic soldiers in the ranks
of the army in Ireland if they were called upon to join in shooting down their own brothers
and friends because these had risen in rebellion against the oppressive laws which excluded
a Catholic from the full rights of citizenship.  Peel was not a philosopher or a dreamer, but
above all things a practical statesman, and when he had to choose between civil war and the
concession of a claim which was admitted to be right and just by some of the most enlightened
Englishmen and Scotchmen who sat near him on the benches of the House of Commons, and by some
of the most enlightened Englishmen and Scotchmen outside the House, he could not bring himself
to believe that claims thus advocated could be so essentially unjust or unreasonable as to
make their continued refusal worth the cost of so terrible a struggle.

Peel made up his mind to the fact that Catholic Emancipation must, as soon as possible, become
the work of Parliament.  But he did not yet believe that he was the right man to undertake
the task.  It seemed to him that one who had always been regarded as the determined opponent
of Emancipation would not be likely to win over many supporters among his Tory friends for
such a sudden change of policy.  He did not think himself well suited, and he was not inclined,
to conduct the negotiations which would be necessary between any Government attempting such
a task and the Irish advocates of Emancipation.  His idea was that Lord Grey, as the head of
the reforming party, would be the statesman best qualified to undertake such an enterprise
and most likely to carry it to an early success.  His first business, however, would clearly
be to convince the Duke of Wellington that Catholic Emancipation was inevitable, and this work
he at once set himself to accomplish.  He had some trouble in bringing the Duke over to his
own opinions, but the Duke became convinced in the end, and, indeed, both at that time and
after, the Duke was always inclined to follow Peel's guidance, on the plain, practical, soldierly
principle that Peel understood political affairs much better than he did, {76} and that Peel's
advice was always sure to be sound and safe.  So the Duke, too, became convinced that Catholic
Emancipation must be accepted as inevitable, and that the sooner it was carried through the
better.  But Wellington was strongly opposed to the idea of handing over the work to Lord Grey.
He showed that it would be hardly possible to induce King George to accept the services of
Lord Grey for such a purpose.  The King was known to dislike Lord Grey, whose stern, unbending
manners could not be welcome to a sovereign unaccustomed to the dictation of so uncourtierlike
an adviser as the leader of the Whig party.

[Sidenote: 1828--The Oath of Supremacy]

Wellington's idea was that, as the thing had to be done, it had better be done by Peel and
himself, and he almost implored Peel not to desert him at such a crisis.  Peel could not resist
the personal and brotherly appeal thus made to him by one for whom he had so profound a respect,
and the result was that the two agreed to work together as they had been doing, and to make
Catholic Emancipation the business of their Government.  But then the King had to be won over,
and nobody knew better than Wellington did how difficult this task must be.  Yet he did not
despair.  He had had some experience of the King's resistance and the only means by which it
could be got over.  Again and again he had had occasion to urge on the sovereign the adoption
of some course to which George, at first, was obstinately opposed, and he knew that quiet persistence
was the only way of carrying his point.  His plan was to avoid argument as much as possible,
to state his case concisely to the King, and allow the King to take his full time in pouring
forth his protestations that he never could and never would consent to such a policy.  The
King was very fond of hearing himself talk, and loved on such occasions to display all that
eloquence which he fully believed himself to possess, and which he had no opportunity of letting
out on any Parliamentary or public platform.  Then, when the King had exhausted himself in
repeating over and over again his reasons for refusing the demands made upon him, Wellington
would quietly return to the fact that there was no practical way out of the difficulty but
to assent to {77} the proposition.  The King usually gave way, and the interview had a satisfactory
close.  The King was appeased by the sound of his own eloquence, and the taciturn minister
had his way.

This course of policy Wellington resolved to adopt with regard to the question of Catholic
Emancipation.  He listened to all the talk about the coronation oath and the declaration that
George would rather retire to his kingdom of Hanover, abdicate the throne of England, and leave
the English people to find a Catholic--that is, a pro-Catholic--king in the Duke of Clarence,
and then merely pointed out to the sovereign that something had to be done, and that his Majesty's
advisers could think of nothing else but the course which they proposed for his acceptance.
The King gave way to a certain extent, but he put his foot down, as the modern phrase goes,
on the maintenance of the Oath of Supremacy in its existing form.

There is an interesting account given of the final interview which the Duke of Wellington,
Lord Lyndhurst, and Robert Peel had with their royal master on this subject.  Without an alteration
in the terms of the Oath of Supremacy it was absolutely impossible that Roman Catholics could
enter the House of Commons, for the oath contained the very words no Catholic could possibly
consent to utter or subscribe.  The King absolutely and vehemently refused to give his consent
to any alteration of the oath, and he then asked his three ministers what, under the circumstances,
they proposed to do.  The ministers informed the sovereign that they proposed to ask his permission
for them to make announcement in the two Houses of Parliament that they had ceased to hold
office and were no longer responsible for the work of administration.  George took the announcement
at first with gracious composure, and told them he supposed he could not find any fault with
them for their act of resignation.  He carried his kindness even further, for, as we learn
on the authority of one of the three ministers, "the King took leave of us with great composure
and great kindness, gave to each of us a salute on each cheek, and accepted our resignation
of office."

{78} Thackeray, in his lecture on George the Fourth, turned this record to most amusing account,
and delighted his audience by a comical description of the King's paternal benediction imprinted
in kisses on the cheeks of Wellington, Lyndhurst, and Peel.  But when the kissing was over
and the three statesmen had departed, the King began to find that he was left practically without
a Government.  What was to be done?  It would be impossible to form a Government after his
own heart without such men as Wellington, Lyndhurst, and Peel, and even if he could have got
over his own personal dislike to Lord Grey, it was impossible to suppose that Lord Grey would
become the head of any Government which did not undertake Catholic Emancipation.  The King
found himself in the awkward position of having either to announce to his subjects that he
intended to govern without any ministers, and to direct the affairs of the State entirely out
of his own head, or to call back to office the men whom he had kissed and sent away.  Even
George the Fourth could not hesitate when such a choice was forced upon him.  He wrote to the
Duke of Wellington, telling him that he must once more put himself in the hands of the Duke
and his colleagues, and let them deal as they thought best with Catholic Emancipation.

[Sidenote: 1829--The Forty-shilling Freeholders]

The Catholic Relief Bill was at once brought in, and consisted in substance of the enactment
of a new oath, which admitted Roman Catholics to Parliament and to all political and civil
offices excepting merely those of Regent, Lord Chancellor, and Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.
The Bill was passed rapidly through both Houses of Parliament.  The third reading was carried
in the House of Commons by 320 votes to 142, and in the House of Lords by 213 to 109, and the
great controversy was happily at an end.  The settlement, however, was not effected with as
complete and liberal a spirit as Peel would certainly have infused into it if he could have
had his way.

O'Connell, who had been twice elected for Clare, was not allowed to take his seat under the
new measure until he had returned to his constituents and submitted himself for {79} re-election--a
ceremonial absolutely unnecessary, and only impressing the civilized world as an evidence of
the ungenerous and ungracious manner in which the inevitable had been accepted.  Then, again,
an Act of Parliament was passed disfranchising the class of voters in Ireland who were called
the Forty-shilling Freeholders, who formed a large proportion of O'Connell's constituents.
This was done no doubt to put some obstacles, at all events, in the way of the Irish Catholic
population if they should hope ever again to make the representation of any national claims
as effective as they had done in the Clare election. It may be taken for granted that Peel
would not have marred the effect of an act of mere justice by niggardly qualifications of any
kind, but he knew he had to deal with a Tory House of Lords, and was content to accept some
compromise as long as he could carry the main object of his policy.  The first great chapter
in the modern history of political reform had come to a thrilling close.

{80}

CHAPTER LXVIII.

THE LAST OF THE GEORGES.

[Sidenote: 1829--Wellington fights Lord Winchilsea]

One incident connected more or less directly with the Catholic Emancipation question deserves
historical record, if only for the curious light it throws upon the contrast between the manners
of that day and the manners of more recent times.  Shortly before the passing of the Catholic
Relief Bill, the Earl of Winchilsea wrote a letter which was published in one of the newspapers
strongly denouncing the conduct of the Duke of Wellington, and declaring him guilty of having
joined in a conspiracy to overthrow the Church and the Constitution of England under false
pretences.  This letter was addressed to the secretary of a committee formed for the establishment
of King's College in London, and Lord Winchilsea had apparently assumed that the subject under
consideration warranted him in expressing his views with regard to the conduct of the Prime
Minister on the Catholic relief question.  In more recent times, of course, such a letter might
have been written by anybody, whether peer or commoner, and published in all the newspapers
of the country without calling for the slightest notice on the part of a Prime Minister.  The
Duke of Wellington, however, lived at a time when a different code of honor and etiquette prevailed.
He wrote to Lord Winchilsea a letter, the principal passage of which is worth quoting to illustrate
the peculiar sense of duty which could, at the time, direct the conduct of a man like the Duke
of Wellington.  "The question for me now to decide is this: Is a gentleman who happens to be
the King's Minister to submit to be insulted by any gentleman who thinks proper to attribute
to him disgraceful or criminal motives for his conduct as an individual?  I cannot {81} doubt
of the decision which I ought to make on this question.  Your Lordship is alone responsible
for the consequences."  This was, of course, a challenge to Lord Winchilsea to withdraw his
accusation or to fight a duel forthwith.

Now, to the cool, philosophic mind, at least in later times, it might well seem obvious that
whether Lord Winchilsea's charge against the Duke of Wellington was just or unjust, its justice
or injustice could not in any way be made clear by the discharge of bullets from the pistols
of the challenger and the challenged.  The cool, philosophic observer of a later time might
wonder also how the Duke's sense of public responsibility could allow him to peril a life which
he must have known to be of the highest value to his country, for the sake of taking part in
a combat with an antagonist whose personal opinion of the Duke and of the Duke's conduct could
not be of the slightest importance to the vast majority of the Duke's countrymen.  But the
Duke of Wellington was not in any case a cool, philosophic observer, and he lived at a time
when the established or tolerated code of what was called personal honor seemed to have nothing
to do either with Christian morals, with political expediency, or with ordinary common-sense.
Wellington accepted without question the dictates of the supposed code of honor, and he sent
his challenge.  Lord Winchilsea, it will be seen, did not intend to stand by his gross and
preposterous charge against the Duke, but he did not think that the code of honor allowed him
to say so like a man, and tender an apology like what we should now call a gentleman, without
first subjecting himself to the fire of his wrongfully accused antagonist.  So the Duke and
the Earl went out with their seconds and met at Wimbledon.  The victor of Waterloo was not
destined to kill or be killed in this absurd contest.  When the parties to the duel were placed
on the ground and the word was given. Lord Winchilsea reserved his fire, the bullet from the
Duke's pistol passed him without doing any harm, and Lord Winchilsea then discharged his pistol
in the air, and authorized his second to make known his retraction of his {82} charge against
the Duke, and his apology for having made such a charge.  The retraction and the apology were
published in the newspapers, and there, to use a form of words which was very common at the
time after such an incident, the affair ended with equal honor to both parties.

[Sidenote: 1829--Comments upon Wellington's duel]

It seems hard now to understand how any man, in the position and with the responsibilities
of the Duke of Wellington, could bring himself to think that he was called upon to risk his
life for the mere sake of resenting an imputation which no rational man in his senses could
possibly have regarded as of any consequence to the Duke's public or private character. The
whole incident seems to us now one more properly belonging to comic opera than to serious political
life.  We can hardly conceive the possibility of the Marquis of Salisbury insisting on fighting
a duel with some hot-headed member of the House of Lords who had chosen to describe him as
a conspirator against the Constitution and the Church of England. The Duke of Wellington, however,
must be judged according to the ways of his own time, and the code of political and personal
honor in which he had been nurtured.  There has not been in modern political history a more
conscientious and high-minded statesman than Robert Peel, and yet not very long before the
Winchilsea business Robert Peel had only been prevented by the interference of the law from
going out to fight a duel with Daniel O'Connell, and O'Connell himself had killed his man in
another affair of honor, as it was called.  We who live in these islands at the present time
may be excused if we indulge in a certain feeling of self-complacency when we contemplate the
advance towards a better code of personal honor and a better recognition of the teachings of
Christianity which has been made here since the days when the Duke of Wellington thought that
for him, as a gentleman, there was no other course to take than to risk his life because an
insignificant person had made a ridiculous charge against him.

Still, it is something to know that there were cool observers even at the time who thought
the Duke of Wellington had done wrong.  Charles Greville, in commenting on {83} the duel, says
that "everybody, of course, sees the matter in a different light; all blame Lord Winchilsea,
but they are divided as to whether the Duke ought to have fought or not." "Lord Winchilsea
is such a maniac, and has so lost his head, that everybody imagined the Duke would treat what
he said with silent contempt."  Most of us at this time of day would be inclined to think that
if Lord Winchilsea was willing to make the apology and had it ready written in his pocket,
he might have acted according to a better code of honor by not exposing the Duke to the chance
of killing him.  The King, it seems, approved of the Duke of Wellington's conduct in making
the letter the subject of a challenge and meeting his opponent in a duel.  Greville goes on
to remark that somebody said "the King would be wanting to fight a duel himself," whereupon
some one else observed, "He will be sure to think that he has fought one."

The Duke of Wellington had a great deal to trouble him after the passing of the Catholic Relief
Bill.  There was great distress all over the country, and the discontent was naturally in proportion
to the distress. Wellington had lost much of his popularity with the more extreme members of
his own party, who could not lift their minds to an understanding of the reasons which had
compelled him to change his old opinions on the Catholic question.  It cannot be doubted, too,
that he sometimes felt disappointed {84} with the results which were following from his policy
towards Ireland.  Members of his own party were continually dinning into his ears their declaration
that the measure passed in favor of the Roman Catholics had not put a stop to agitation in
Ireland, and that, on the contrary, O'Connell was now beginning to agitate for a repeal of
the Act of Union.  At that time, as at all times, the opponents of any great act of justice
were eager to make out that its concession must have been an utter failure, because instead
of satisfying everybody forever it had only led other people to demand that other acts of justice
should also be done.  Some members of Wellington's own party were now inclined for the first
time to become advocates of Parliamentary reform, on the ground that nothing but a reduced
franchise in England could save the State Church from being overthrown by the emancipated Roman
Catholics.  Those who had trembled before at the possibility of revolutionary sentiments leading
to the subversion of the throne, now declared themselves in terror lest the spread of Roman
Catholic doctrine should lead to the subversion of the Protestant altar.  The truth is, and
it is a truth of which governments have to be reminded even in our own times, that the long
delay of justice was alone answerable for any alarm which might have been caused by its sudden
concession.  The arguments in favor of Catholic Emancipation were just as strong, and ought
to have been just as clear, to all rational men before it became evident to Wellington and
Peel that there was no choice but between emancipation and civil war.  The plain duty of a
civilized government is to redress injustice at the earliest possible moment, and not to wait
idly or ignorantly until the danger of a popular uprising makes instant redress inevitable.

[Sidenote: 1829--Need for radical reforms]

The great distress in many parts of the country was in the mean time leading to new forms of
crime.  The burning of corn-ricks and farm-houses was becoming in many districts the terrible
form in which hunger and want of work made wild war against property.  The Game Laws, which
were then at their highest pitch of severity, led to {85} ferocious and frequent struggles
between the patrons and the enemies of legalized monopoly. Poachers were killed by game preservers,
and game preservers were killed by poachers.  Every assize court told this same story.  An
entirely new form of crime broke out in the murders which were committed for the sake of obtaining
bodies to be sold for the purposes of dissection.  The price of food was often made enormously
high by the purely artificial restrictions imposed upon its importation, and even in some cases
on its mere production, and in ordinary human society increase of poverty always means increase
of crime.  A large proportion of the population was sunk in absolute ignorance, and as yet
no systematic attempt whatever was made to establish any form of national education.  The luxury
and the extravagance of the rich were enormous, and were greatly stimulated by the example
of the sovereign and the Court.  Under the influence of the spasmodic and unreal impulse given
to commercial activity by the late wars the rich seemed to be growing richer, while by the
increased taxation which was the result of these wars the poor were certainly made to grow
poorer.  The demand for Parliamentary reform was beginning to express itself in systematic
movements.   Lord John Russell and Henry Brougham made their voices heard in the House of Commons
and throughout the country.  Daniel O'Connell went so far as to declare that nothing would
satisfy him short of universal suffrage--manhood suffrage, that is to say--vote by ballot,
and triennial Parliaments.  This was thought at the time by most people to be the mere raving
of a madman or the wild outcry of a revolutionary demagogue.  We are not very far from the
full accomplishment of the programme just now.  The agitation against slavery and the slave
trade was becoming an important movement.  The time, in fact, was one of storm and high pressure.
The shapes of great coming changes were daily seen upon the horizon, and part of the community
regarded as the portents of coming national destruction what others welcomed as the bright
signs of approaching prosperity, education, and peace.

{86}

[Sidenote: 1830--Death of George the Fourth]

One coming change all men looked forward to with the conviction that it was near.  The end
of the reign was close at hand.  The King's health and strength had wholly given way of late
years, and it was beyond the reach of medical science to do much for the prolongation of his
life, even if George had been the sort of man to give medical science any chance of doing much
for him.  Preparations, however, were still being made for his birthday celebration in April,
and nothing was done by any official announcement to give strength to the general prevailing
impression that the end was near at hand.  When, on April 15, a bulletin was at last issued,
it merely announced that the King was suffering from a bilious attack accompanied by a slight
difficulty in breathing, but nothing was said to intimate that the King's physicians were in
any alarm for the result.  The royal physicians still kept issuing bulletins, but they were
so vague in their terms that it is impossible to believe they were not made purposely deceptive.
It would appear that King George, like many braver and better men, had a nervous objection
to any admission by himself or on his behalf that there was the slightest reason for alarm
as to the state of his health.  Greville, who was then in Rome, notes on May 12 that: "Everybody
here is in great alarm about the King, who I have no doubt is very ill."  Then Greville adds,
in characteristic fashion: "I am afraid he will die before I get home, and I should like to
be in at the death, and see all the proceedings of a new reign."  But he makes up his mind
that he must not hurry his departure on the ground that "I shall probably never see Rome again,
and I have a good chance of seeing at least one king more leave us."

Days and days went on and the public were still kept in doubt, until on May 24 a message was
sent in the King's name to both Houses of Parliament to say that the King no longer found it
convenient to sign State papers with his own hand, and hoped some means might be found for
relieving him from the necessity of making any attempt to discharge the painful duty. This
announcement made it clear enough to everybody that the King was in a very {87} weak condition,
but there was naturally some difficulty about devising an entirely satisfactory method of dispensing
him from the duty of appending his sign-manual to important documents.  Not a very long time
had passed away since the throne of England was nominally occupied by an insane sovereign.
It was thought quite possible that insanity might show itself in the present King, and it was
absolutely necessary that the utmost care should be taken to provide against any chance of
the royal authority being misused by those who surrounded the sovereign.  It was arranged,
therefore, that the sign-manual should be affixed in the King's presence, and in obedience
to his order given by word of mouth, and that the document thus stamped must be endorsed by
three members of the Privy Council.  All this was to be provided for by an Act of Parliament,
and the Act was only to be in operation during the session then going on, in order that if
the King's malady should last the renewal of the regular authority must be formally sought
from the Legislature. The Bill for this purpose became law on May 28, and it remained in operation
but for a very short time.  On June 26, about three in the morning, the reign of George the
Fourth came to an end.  The death was sudden, even when we consider that there had been for
some time no hope left of the King's recovery.  George was sitting up in bed, and to all outward
appearance was not any worse than he had been for some days before, when suddenly a startled
expression came over his face, he leaned his head on the shoulder of one of his attendants,
was heard to say, "O God, this is death," and then all was over.

The rupture of a blood-vessel proved to have been the immediate cause of death, but ossification
of some of the vessels near the heart had begun years before and a complication of disorders
had been gradually setting in.  The King's mode of life was not one which gave him any chance
of rallying against such disorders.  He was reckless in his food and drink, and had long been
in the way of cheering and stimulating himself by glasses of cherry-brandy taken at any moment
of the day when the impulse came upon {88} him.  Shortly before his death George made an earnest
request to the Duke of Wellington, who was in constant attendance, that he should be buried
in the night-shirt which he was wearing at the time. The Duke was somewhat surprised at this
request, for one reason among others that the garment in question did not seem likely to commend
itself as a shroud even to a sovereign less particular as to costume than George the Fourth
had been.  During his later years, however, as we learn from the testimony of Wellington himself,
the King, who used to be the very prince of dandies where his outer garments were concerned,
had got into the way of sleeping in uncleanly nightshirts and particularly dirty night-caps.
When the King was dead, Wellington noticed that there was a red silk ribbon round his neck
beneath the shirt.  The ribbon was found to have attached to it a locket containing a tiny
portrait of Mrs. Fitzherbert, perhaps the one only woman he had ever loved, perhaps, too, the
woman he had most deeply wronged.  It seemed that at one period of their love story the King
and Mrs. Fitzherbert had exchanged small portraits, each covered by half a cut diamond, and
no doubt there was an understanding that each should rest forever on the breast of its wearer.

[Sidenote: 1830--The character of George the Fourth]

Nothing in the story of George the Fourth's worthless and erring life is more discreditable
and dishonorable to him than the manner in which he behaved to Mrs. Fitzherbert, and the utter
falsehood of the denial which he had given to the reports that a marriage ceremony had taken
place between them--a falsehood which, be it remembered, he had declared to Charles Fox upon
his honor to be a truthful statement.  The moralist may be a little puzzled how to make up
his mind as to the bearing of this incident upon the character of George the Fourth.  Does
it relieve the murky gloom of George's life by one streak of light if we find that, after all,
he did love Mrs. Fitzherbert to the last, and that in his dying moments he wished her portrait
to go with him to the tomb?  Or does it darken the stain upon the man's life to know that he
really did love the woman whom nevertheless he could deliberately consign {89} to an infamous
imputation?  We do not know whether any writer of romance has ventured to introduce into his
pages an incident and a problem such as those which are thus associated with the death-bed
of George the Fourth. It is something to know that the King's brother, the Duke of Clarence,
whom that death-bed had made King of England, was kind and generous to Mrs. Fitzherbert, and
did all in his power to atone to her for the trials which her love and her royal lover had
brought upon her life.

George was in his sixty-eighth year when he died.  It would not be easy to find anywhere the
story of a life which left so little of good to be remembered.  George seems to have had some
generous impulses now and then, and he probably did some kindly acts which could be set off
against his many errors, imperfections, ignoble selfishnesses, and grave offences.  But the
record of his career as history gives it to us is that of a life almost absolutely surrendered
to self-indulgence.  It is only fair to remember when we consider all the unworthy acts of
his manhood that the unwise and harsh restraints imposed upon him in his early years are accountable,
at least to a certain extent, for the follies and the vices to which he yielded himself up
when he became, as Byron says of one of his characters, "Lord of himself, that heritage of
woe."  Heritage of woe it certainly was in the case of George the Fourth.  In his early manhood
he appears to have had the gift of forming close friendships with men of genius and of noble
impulse, but their example never told upon him, and as one cause or other removed them from
his side his career bore with it no trace of their influence or their inspiration.  No one
ever seems to have loved him except Mrs. Fitzherbert alone, and we have seen how that love
was repaid.  Even those who were most devoted to him in his later years, because of their devotion
to the royal house and to the State of which he was the representative, found themselves compelled
to bear the heaviest testimony against his levity, his selfishness, his lack of conscience,
his utter indifference to all the higher objects and purposes of life.

George must have had some natural talents and some {90} gifts of intellect, for he would otherwise
not have chosen such friends as those whom in his better days he chose out and brought around
him.  We are told that he had marvellous powers of conversation, that he had a ready wit, and
a keen insight into the humors and the weaknesses of those with whom he was compelled to associate.
We are told that he could compete in repartee with the recognized wits of his time, and that
he could shine as a talker even among men whose names still live in history because of their
reputations as talkers.  Of course it will naturally occur to the mind that the guests of the
Prince Regent might be easily inclined to discover genuine wit in any repartee which came from
the Prince Regent, but it is certain that some at least of the men who surrounded him were
not likely to have been betrayed into admiration merely because of the rank of their royal
entertainer.  Burke was held to have spoken disparagingly of George when he described him as
"brilliant but superficial."  To one of Burke's deep thought and wide information a man might
well have seemed superficial in whom others nevertheless believed that they saw evidences of
intellect and understanding, but if Burke thought a man brilliant it is only reasonable to
assume that that man's conversation must have had frequent flashes of brilliancy.

[Sidenote: 1830--The Third and Fourth Georges contrasted]

Undoubtedly George was capable sometimes of appreciating thoroughly the qualities of greatness
in other men, but the appreciation never left any abiding influence upon his character or his
career.  He certainly did not make himself the cause of so much injury to the best interests
of the State as George the Third had done, but it has also to be observed that when George
the Third went wrong and obstinately maintained a wrongful course he was acting in dogged obedience
to what he believed to be his conscience and the teachings of his creed.  George the Fourth
had absolutely no conscience and no law of life, and when he talked most vehemently and loudly
about his coronation oath those who were accustomed to deal with him knew quite well from experience
that when he had exhausted his humor by a {91} sufficient outpouring of eloquence he would
be sure to take the advice given to him and to trouble himself no more about the question of
conscience.  In this way, of course, George the Fourth did less harm to the State than his
father had done, but when we come to compare the moral character of the two men we must admit
that the obstinacy of the father deserves the recognition which we cannot give to the spasmodic
and ephemeral self-assertion of the son.  Nobody for a moment believed that George the Fourth
had the slightest idea of actually abdicating his royal position in England and betaking himself
to perpetual boredom in Hanover rather than consent to the passing of Catholic Emancipation.
But at times of trial those who were around George the Third had good reason to believe that
if he were driven to choose between his throne and his conscience he would have come down deliberately
from the throne and followed his conscience whithersoever it might lead him.  With George the
Fourth the only question was how long he would stand the wear and tear of having to defend
his position, and how soon he would begin to feel that the inconvenience of giving in would
be less troublesome than the inconvenience of holding out.  Even the most courtly historian
would be hard put to it if he were set to find out any passage in the whole of George the Fourth's
matured life which compels admiration.

George seems to have been an absolutely self-centred man.  He was to all appearance constitutionally
unable to import into his mind any considerations but those which affected his own personal
comforts and likings and indulgences and occasional love of display.  There were times when
he evidently thought he was acting a great part, and when it filled him with joy to believe
that he was thus making himself an object of public admiration; but no higher consideration,
no thought beyond him and the applause he believed himself to be winning, appear to have entered
his mind even at such moments of exaltation.  We read in history of princes who believed themselves
qualified by nature to be great actors or great singers, and who made absurd exhibitions of
themselves accordingly and accepted {92} the courtly and venal applause as genuine tributes
to artistic genius.  In the same way, and only in the same way, George the Fourth sometimes
believed himself to be playing a great part, and it gratified his vanity to act the part out
until it became tiresome to him and he found it a relief to go back to the ordinary delights
of his easy, lazy, and sensuous nature.  Perhaps the best that can be said of him is that he
had possibly some gifts which under other conditions might have been turned to better account.
Perhaps if he had had to work for a living, to make a career in life for himself, to depend
for his success entirely on the steady use of his own best qualities, and to avoid the idleness
and self-indulgence which would have condemned him to perpetual stint and poverty, he might
have made a respectable name in some career where intelligence and application count for much.
But a hard fortune had condemned him to be a king, and to begin by being the son of a king,
and thus to find as the years went on increasing opportunity of gratifying all his meanest
tastes and finding always around him the ready homage which accords its applause to the most
ignoble caprices and the most wanton self-indulgence.  The reign of George the Fourth saw great
deeds and great men; it could have seen few men in all his realm less deserving a word of praise
than George the Fourth.

[Sidenote: 1830--Events in the reign of George the Fourth]

The reign saw the beginning of many great enterprises in practical science, the uprising of
many philanthropic combinations, and the first movements of political and social reform.  It
saw the earliest attempts made in a systematic way towards the spread of education among the
multitude, and the close of many a bright career in literature and the arts.  Bishop Heber
died in 1826.  The death of Byron has already been recorded in these pages, and at even an
earlier period of the reign two other stars of the first magnitude in the firmament of literature
ceased to shine upon the earth in bodily presence with the deaths of Keats and Shelley.  John
Kemble, probably the greatest English tragic actor from the days of Garrick to the uprising
of Edmund Kean, died while George the Fourth was {93} King.  Sir Thomas Lawrence, Flaxman,
Fuseli, and Nollekens ceased to work for art.  Sir Humphry Davy, Dugald Stewart, and Pestalozzi
were lost to science.  The reign saw the foundation of the Royal Society of Literature, which,
to do him justice, George the Fourth helped to establish; the beginning of Mechanics' Institute,
and the opening of some new parks and the Zoological Gardens.  It is doubtful if the Thames
Tunnel can be described as a really valuable addition to the triumphs of engineering, and it
will perhaps be generally admitted that Buckingham Palace was not an artistic addition to the
architectural ornaments of the metropolis.  The Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge
was set on foot owing chiefly to the energy and the instincts of Henry Brougham.

We have seen how the foreign policy of Canning opened a distinctly new chapter in English history,
and it may be observed that owing to the influence of that policy the principle of neutrality
was maintained under difficult conditions, and even where the general sympathy of England went
distinctly with one of the parties to a foreign dispute.  This policy might well have been
followed with credit and advantage to England on more than one critical occasion at a much
later time.  The reign saw the beginning of the movement towards free trade as a distinct international
policy, and saw the removal of some of the most cramping and antiquated restrictions on the
commerce of the kingdom and the colonies.  The crusade against slavery and the slave-trade
may be said to have begun its march in anything like organized form during this reign.  The
political principles which we now describe as Liberal became a new force in the State during
the same time.  The idea that even beneficent despotism can be counted on as an enduring or
an endurable form of government began to die out, and the principle came to be more and more
distinctly and loudly proclaimed that the best form of government must be not only for, but
by, the people.

These things are in themselves enough to show that in the sphere of political and social reform
as well as in that {94} of practical science the reign of George the Fourth was at least a
reign of great beginnings. The student of history may perhaps draw an instructive and a moral
lesson from the knowledge forced upon him of the fact which seems lamentable in itself that
to the ruler of the State little or nothing was due for the achievements which give the reign
its best claim to be honored in history.  The reign of George the Fourth teaches us that in
a country like modern England, while a good sovereign may do much to forward the intellectual,
political, and social progress of the people, even the worst sovereign could no longer do much
to retard it.

[Sidenote: 1830: The Georges and the Stuarts]

The Four Georges had come and gone.  A famous epoch in English history had ended.  Four princes
of the same race, of the same name, had ruled in succession over the English people.  Practically,
the reigns of the four namesakes may be said to coincide with, to comprehend, and to represent
the history of the eighteenth century in England.  The reign of George the Fourth may be regarded
as a survival from the eighteenth into the nineteenth century, as the reign of Anne was a survival
from the seventeenth into the eighteenth century.  In all the changes of that long and eventful
age one change is very memorable and significant.  The position of the dynasty was very different
when George the Fourth died from what it was when his great-great-grandfather came over unwillingly
from Germany to grasp the sceptre.  When the Elector of Hanover became King of England, the
Stuart party was still a power in political life and the Stuart cause the dearest hope of a
very large number of devoted Englishmen.  It might well be hard for men to realize in the days
of George the Fourth that in the reign of the first George and in the reign of the second George
the throne reeled beneath the blows which the armed adherents of the exiled Stuart princes
struck at the supremacy of the sovereigns of the House of Brunswick.  Even when the third George
came to the throne there were still desperate dreamers who hoped against hope that something,
anything, might happen which would allow the King--the King over the {95} water--to enjoy his
own again.  When the last of the Georges passed away, the Stuart cause had been buried for
nearly half a century in that grave in Rome which encloses the remains of the last and perhaps
the most unhappy of the Stuart princes.

{96}

WILLIAM THE FOURTH.

CHAPTER LXIX.

KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH.

[Sidenote: 1830--The career of William the Fourth]

William the Fourth, as the Duke of Clarence had now become, was nearing the completion of his
sixty-fifth year when the death of his brother raised him to the throne.  He had surely had
full time in which to prepare himself for the business of a monarch, for during a long period
it was well known that nothing was likely to stand between him and the succession except the
life of his elder brother, the Duke of York.  But William's tastes did not allure him to any
study of the duties which belonged to a throne.  The Navy was assigned to him as a profession,
and he actually saw some service in America and in the West Indies, but he obtained his promotion
as a matter of course until he reached the position of Lord High Admiral, which may be described
as the main-top of his naval career.  The story is told of him, and will probably, whether
it be accurate or not, be told as long as his history comes under public recollection, that
he had something to do with the promotion of the great naval battle of Navarino, which led
to the emancipation of Greece.  The combined fleets of England, France, and Russia, under command
of Admiral Sir Edward Codrington, were watching the Turkish and Egyptian fleets, in order to
protect Greece against them.  But the actual course to be taken by the allies was supposed
to depend upon many serious political considerations.  The British Admiralty issued a solemn
official despatch to Sir Edward Codrington, enjoining on him the necessity of great care and
caution in any action he might take.  This {97} document was forwarded in due course by the
Lord High Admiral, and the story goes that the Duke of Clarence scribbled at the end of it
in his own hand the encouraging words, "Go it, Ned."  Whether it was fought under this inspiration
or not, it is certain that the battle was fought, that the Turkish and Egyptian fleets were
destroyed, and that the independence of Greece was won.

The English public generally would have been none the less inclined to welcome the accession
of the Duke of Clarence as William the Fourth even although it had been part of authentic history
that the new King had lately borne an important, if an underhand, part in the rescue of Greece
from Ottoman oppression.  But there was little else in the career of the Duke of Clarence to
command popular respect or affection. He had lived openly, or almost openly, for many years
with the celebrated actress Mrs. Jordan, who had borne him ten children, and this connection
had been made the subject of free and frank allusion in some of the verses of Robert Burns.
The British public, however, were inclined, as Robert Burns was, to look forgivingly on the
doings of the Prince, for he was still a young man when his acquaintance with Mrs. Jordan began.
The British public liked him because he was a sailor, if for nothing else, and men's eyes turned
hopefully to him when it became apparent that not much good was any longer to be looked for
from George the Fourth.  In 1818 William married the eldest daughter of the Duke of Saxe-Meiningen,
and had two daughters, both of whom died in their infancy.  The Duke of Clarence had been noted,
during the greater part of his career, for his roughness of manner, and many anecdotes of him
were spread about which might have suited well the fun of some historian belonging to the school
of Brantôme, or some compiler of memoirs after the fashion of Saint-Simon.  Still he was the
Sailor King, and England had always, and naturally, loved sailors; and "go to then," as might
have been said in the days of Shakespeare, what further explanation could be needed of the
fact that William the Fourth opened his career of royalty under favoring {98} auspices?  It
might seem to the mind of some philosophical observer rather hard to get into transports of
enthusiasm about a new monarch aged sixty-five who during all his previous career had done
nothing of which to be particularly proud, and had done many things of which a respectable
person in private life would have felt heartily ashamed.  Still, the Duke of Clarence had become
William the Fourth, and was on the throne, and great things might possibly be expected from
him even yet, although he was pretty well stricken in years.  At all events, he was not George
the Fourth.  So the public of these countries was in the mood to make the best of him, and
give him a loyal welcome, and wait for events with the comfortable faith that even at sixty-five
a man may begin a new life, and find time and heart and intellect to do things of which no
promise whatever had been given during all his earlier years.

[Sidenote: 1830--The pocket boroughs]

William had been supposed up to the time of his accession to lean towards the Whig, or what
we should now call the Liberal party.  His manners were frank, familiar, and even rough.  He
cared little for Court ceremonial of any kind, and was in the habit of walking about the streets
with his umbrella tucked under his arm, like any ordinary Londoner.  All this told rather in
his favor, so far as the outer public were concerned.  There was supposed to be something rather
English, something rather typical of John Bull in the easy-going manners of the new sovereign,
which gave people an additional reason for welcoming him.  The new sovereign, however, had
come in for times of popular excitement, and even of trouble.  There came a new revolution
in France--only a dynastic revolution, to be sure, and not a national upheaval, but still it
was a change which dethroned the newly restored legitimate line of sovereigns.  The elder branch
of the Bourbons was torn away and flung aside.  There were to be no more kings of France, but
only kings of the French.  Charles the Tenth was deposed, and Louis Philippe, son of Philippe
Egalité, was placed on the throne.  Charles the Tenth was the last of the legitimate kings
of France so far, and there does not {99} seem much chance in the immediate future for any
restoration of the fallen dynasty.

The overthrow of legitimacy in France had a strong effect on popular opinion in England.  It
was plain that Charles the Tenth and his system had come to ruin because the sovereign and
his ministers would not move with the common movement of the times over the greater part of
the European continent, and popular reformers in England took care that the lesson should not
be thrown away over here.  Great changes had been accomplished by popular movements even during
the enfeebling and disheartening reign of George the Fourth.  Great progress had been made
towards the establishment of religious equality, or at all events towards the removal of religious
disqualifications among the Dissenters and the Roman Catholics.  There was a loud cry almost
everywhere for some measure of political reform.  The conditions of the country had been gradually
undergoing a great change.  England had been becoming less and less dependent for her prosperity
on her mere agricultural resources, and had been growing more and more into a great manufacturing
community.  Huge towns like Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, Birmingham, and Sheffield were arising
in the Northern and Midland regions.  Liverpool was superseding Bristol as the great seaport
of commercial traffic.  Yet in most cases the old-fashioned principle still prevailed which
in practice confined the Parliamentary representation of the country to the members who sat
for the counties, and for what were called the pocket boroughs.  The theory of the Constitution,
as it was understood, held that the sovereign summoned at his own discretion and pleasure the
persons whom he thought best qualified to form a House of Commons, to consult with him as to
the government of the empire.  The sovereign for this purpose conferred the right of representation
on this or that town, or district, or county, according as he thought fit, and this arrangement
had gone on from generation to generation.  Now it sometimes happened that a place that had
been comparatively popular and prosperous at the period when it obtained the {100} right of
representation had seen its prosperity and its population gradually ebb away from it, and leave
it little better than a bare hill-side, and yet the bare hill-side retained the right of representation,
and its owner could send any one he pleased into the House of Commons.  There were numberless
illustrations of this curious anomaly all over the country.  The great families of landed proprietors
naturally monopolized among them the representation of the counties, and many of them enjoyed
also the ownership of the small decaying or totally decayed boroughs which still retained the
right of returning members to Parliament.  On the other hand, the development of manufacturing
energy had caused the growth of great and populous towns and cities, and most of these towns
and cities were actually without representation or the right of representation in the House
of Commons. Thus a condition of things had arisen which was certain to prove itself incompatible
with the spread of education and the growth of public interest in all great questions of domestic
reform.

[Sidenote: 1830--The Princess Victoria]

We have already seen in this history how the Whig party in Parliament, and the popular agitators
out of Parliament, had long been rousing the national intelligence and the national conscience
to a sense of the growing necessity for some complete change in all that concerned the representation
of the people.  The Duke of Wellington was at the head of the Administration when George the
Fourth died and William came to the throne.  The new King, as has been said, was supposed to
have Liberal inclinations as regarded political questions, and there was a common expectation
that he might begin his reign by summoning a new set of ministers.  The King, however, did
nothing of the kind.  He sent messages to the Duke of Wellington telling him, in his usual
familiar and uncouth way, that he had always liked the Duke uncommonly well, and did not see
any reason why he should not keep him on as his Prime Minister.  This was, to begin with, a
disappointment to the majority of the public.  The first royal speech from the throne contained
other matter of disappointment.  There was great distress all over the {101} country.  The
enormous expense of the long wars was still making itself felt in huge taxation.  The condition
of agriculture was low, and many districts were threatened with something like famine.  Trade
was suffering from the reaction which always follows a long and exhausting war.  It was confidently
expected that the royal speech would take some account of the widespread national distress
and would foreshadow some measures to deal with it.  The speech, however, said nothing on the
subject.  Then there was another omission which created much dissatisfaction and even some
alarm.  The speech made no mention of any measures to be taken for the establishment of a regency
in the event of the King's death.  The King was sixty-five years old, and had led a life which
even the most loyal and hopeful of his subjects could not regard with confidence as likely
to give promise of a long reign.  Now the heir-presumptive to the throne was the Princess Alexandrina
Victoria, a child then only eleven years old.  The Princess Victoria, as she was commonly called,
was the daughter of the Duke of Kent, the fourth son of George the Third.  Any attack of illness,
any serious accident, might bring the life of King William to a sudden close, and then if no
previous arrangement had been made for a regency Parliament and the country might be involved
in some confusion.

There was one very grave and even ominous condition which had to be taken into account.  If
the King were to die suddenly, and with no provision made for a regency, the girl, perhaps
the child, who succeeded him would in the ordinary course of things be left under the guardianship
of her eldest uncle, the Duke of Cumberland.  Now it is only stating a simple fact to say that
the Duke of Cumberland was then the most unpopular man in England.  He was not merely unpopular,
he was an object of common dread and detestation.  He was regarded as a reckless profligate
and an unprincipled schemer.  There must have been much exaggeration about some of the tales
that were told and accepted concerning him, for it is hard to believe that at a time so near
to our own a prince of {102} the Royal House of England could have lived a life the story of
which might seem to have belonged to the worst days of the Lower Empire.  But, whatever allowance
be made for exaggeration, it is certain that the Duke of Cumberland was almost universally
hated, and that many people seriously considered him quite capable of any plot or any crime
which might secure his own advancement to the throne. Sanguine persons, indeed, saw a gleam
of hope in the fact that the Duke of Cumberland was in any case the heir to the crown of Hanover.
In the House of Hanover the succession is confined to the male line, and the Princess Victoria
had nothing to do with it.  The hope, therefore, was that the Duke of Cumberland would be content
with the prospect of his succession to the throne of Hanover, and that when the time arrived
for him to become King of Hanover he would betake himself to his new kingdom and trouble England
no more.  Still the fact remained that just as yet he was not King of Hanover, and that if
no proper provisions were made against a contingency he might become the guardian of the girl,
or the child, who was to succeed William the Fourth on the English throne.

[Sidenote: 1830--The death of Huskisson]

King William, however, did not trouble himself much about all these considerations.  He did
not see any reason why people should expect him to die all of a sudden, and he could hardly
be got to give any serious attention to the question of a regency.  It was then part of the
constitutional practice of the monarchy that a dissolution of Parliament should take place
when a new sovereign had come to the throne.  The practice has since ceased to be a part of
our constitutional usages, but in the days when William the Fourth came to the throne it was
a matter of course.  The King, for some reason or other, was anxious that a dissolution should
take place as soon as possible.  It may be that he was merely desirous to find out how far
the existing Ministry had the support of the country, although it does not seem quite likely
that William's intelligence could have carried him so near to the level of statesmanship as
to make this elementary question a {103} matter of consideration in his mind.  The King's principal
ministers were the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel. The most powerful among the leaders
of Opposition were Charles, Earl Grey, in the House of Lords and Henry Brougham and Lord John
Russell in the House of Commons.  There was some doubt as to the position which might be taken
up by Canning and Huskisson and their friends.  Some of the Tories believed that they might
be won over to support the Duke of Wellington, in order to assist him in counteracting the
efforts of the more ardent and liberal reformers, like Grey and Brougham and Russell. Fate
soon settled the question so far at least as Huskisson was concerned.  The opening of the line
of railway from Liverpool to Manchester, the first line of any considerable length completed
in England, took place on September 15, 1830.  The Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel, and
Huskisson were among the distinguished visitors who were present at the opening of the railway.
The friends alike of the Prime Minister and of the great expert in finance were anxious that
the two should come together on this occasion, and make a personal if not a political reconciliation.
The train stopped at a station; the Duke and Huskisson both got out, and were approaching to
meet each other, the Duke holding out his hand, when an alarm was raised about the approach
of a locomotive.  A rush was made for the carriages, and in the confusion Huskisson was struck
down by an open door in the moving train, and suffered such injuries that his death almost
immediately followed.  Huskisson was, beyond doubt, one of the most enlightened statesmen of
his time in all that concerned the financial arrangements of the country.  He might have been
called a Liberal, just as we might call Canning a Liberal, when we think of the general direction
taken by the policy of either man.

The dissatisfaction with which the speech from the throne was received found its expression
in no severer form, so far at least as Parliament was concerned, than a motion by Lord Grey
in the one House, and Lord Althorp in the other, for a short delay to enable both Houses to
{104} consider the address in reply to the royal speech.  It was made evident that the delay
sought for had to do with the question of a regency, concerning which, as has been said, the
King had not troubled himself to make any announcement.  Now the constitutional system of England
had taken no account, except through the provision of a regency, of the fact that a child might
become sovereign of the realm.  Therefore, if Parliament did not establish a regency during
the lifetime of King William, and if the King were soon to die through any accident or malady,
the child Princess would come to the throne under no further constitutional restraints than
those which belonged to the position of a full-grown sovereign.  There was another trouble,
however, and one of still graver political importance, awaiting the Ministry of the Duke of
Wellington.

[Sidenote: 1830--Brougham and Reform]

Henry Brougham gave notice in the House of Commons that on an early day he would bring forward
a motion to raise the whole question of reform in the representative system of the country.
Brougham, at this time, was regarded as the most strenuous and powerful champion of reform
in the House of Commons.  Lord John Russell had not yet had an opportunity of proving how steadfast
were his principles as a reformer, and how great were the Parliamentary gifts which he had
brought to the main purpose of his life.  Moreover, Lord John Russell never had any of the
kind of eloquence which made Brougham so powerful in and out of Parliament.  Brougham on a
popular platform could outdo the most stormy mob orator of the time.  He was impassioned, boisterous,
overwhelming to a degree of which we can find no adequate illustration even in the most tumultuous
Trafalgar Square demonstrations of our later days. Even in the House of Commons, and afterwards
in what might be regarded as the deadening atmosphere of the House of Lords, Brougham was accustomed
to shout and storm and gesticulate, to shake his fist and stamp, after a fashion which was
startling even in those days, and of which now we have no living illustration.  Brougham was
at this time almost at the very zenith of his popularity among the reformers all over the country,
{105} and more especially in the North of England. When, therefore, Brougham announced that
he was determined at the earliest opportunity to raise the whole question of reform in the
House of Commons it became evident that the new reign was destined to open with a momentous
and long constitutional struggle, a struggle that might be counted upon to mark an epoch in
the history of England.  The news that the French legitimate monarchy had fallen and that Louis
Philippe reigned as King of the French--King of the barricades he was commonly called--came
in time to quicken men's hopes and animate their passions for the approaching trial of strength
between the old forms and the new spirit.

The Government refused to agree to the one day's delay which was asked for by the leaders of
Opposition.  On a division being taken there was a majority for Ministers in both Houses, and
the Duke of Wellington had scored thus far.  He had shown that he was personally determined
not to concede any point to the Opposition, and he had secured a victory. Parliament was dissolved
within a few days and the country was plunged into a general election.  At that time, it should
be remembered, an election was a very different sort of event from that which bears the same
name at the present day.  An election contest could then, according to the extent and nature
of the constituency, run on for a time not exceeding fifteen days, and it was accompanied by
a practice of bribery, lavish, open, shameless, and profligate, such as is totally unknown
to our more modern times, and such as our habits and feelings, no more than our laws, would
tolerate.  Intimidation and violence were also parts of every fiercely contested election,
and those whom the law excluded from any part in the struggle as electors were apt to find,
in that very exclusion, only another reason for taking part in it by the use of physical force.
Just at the time which we are now describing there are many conditions which made a general
election likely to be especially stormy and turbulent.

The distress which prevailed throughout the country had in many districts called up a spirit
of something like {106} desperation, which exhibited itself in a crime of almost entire novelty,
the burning of hayricks on farms.  This offence became so widespread throughout large parts
of the country that it gave rise to theories about an organized conspiracy against property
which was supposed to be, in some vague sort of way, an outcome of the socialistic excesses
which had taken place during the French Revolution and had been revived by the more recent
commotions in France.  The probability is that the rick-burning offences were, in the first
instance, the outcome of sheer despair seeking vengeance anywhere and anyhow for its own sufferings,
and then of the mere passion for imitation in crime which finds some manner of illustration
here and there at all periods of history.  However that may be, it is certain that the offences
became very common, that they were punished with merciless severity, and that the gallows was
kept in constant operation.

[Sidenote: 1830--A change in constitutional systems]

Now, it may be taken almost as a political axiom that whenever there is great distress at the
time of a general election it is certain to give rise to some feeling of hostility against
a Ministry, especially if the Ministry had been for any length of time in power.  A considerable
portion of the Tories had been turned against the Duke of Wellington because, under the advice
of Sir Robert Peel, he had yielded at last to the demand for Catholic Emancipation, even although,
as Peel and the Duke himself declared, the concession had been made merely as a choice between
Catholic Emancipation and civil war.  Some influential Tories all over the country were asking
whether Ireland had been pacified or had shown herself in the least degree grateful because
an instalment of religious freedom had been granted to the Roman Catholics, and they insisted
that the Duke had surrendered the supremacy of the Established Church to no purpose.  It was
certain, indeed, that O'Connell had not, in the slightest degree, slackened the energy of his
political movement because the emancipating Act had been passed.  Among the opponents of reform,
at all times, there are some who seem to hold that the granting of one reform ought to be enough
to put a stop to all demands for any {107} other, and that it is mere ingratitude on the part
of a man who has just obtained permission to follow his own form of worship if he wants also
to be put on an equality with his neighbors as regards the assertion of his political opinions.
Therefore, the Ministry found, as the elections went on, that they had not merely all the reformers
against them, but that a certain proportion of those who, in the ordinary condition of things,
would have been their supporters were estranged from them merely because they had, under whatever
pressure, consented to introduce any manner of reform.

When the elections were over it seemed to reasonable observers very doubtful indeed whether
King William, however well inclined, would be able to retain for any length of time the Duke
of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel as the leading advisers of the Crown.  The country just then
may be described as in a state of transition from one constitutional system to another.  It
was growing more clear, day by day, that the time had gone by when the sovereign could hold
to any one particular minister, or set of ministers, in defiance of the majority in the representative
chamber and the strength of public opinion out-of-doors.  On the other hand, the time had not
yet arrived when the system introduced and established by the present reign could be relied
upon as part of the Constitution, and the sovereign could be trusted to accept, without demur,
the judgment of the House of Commons as to the choice of his ministers.  The new Parliament
was opened on November 5, and the Royal Speech gave but little satisfaction to reformers of
any class.  It contained no recommendation of constitutional reform, and indeed congratulated
the whole population on having the advantage of living under so faultless a political system.
It concerned itself in no wise about the distress that existed in the country, except that
it expressed much satisfaction at the manner in which the criminal laws had been called into
severe action for the repression of offences against property.

The King conceded so much to public opinion as to recommend the appointment of a regency, in
order to {108} make provision for the possibility of his life being cut short; but even this
was only done in a fashion that seemed to say, "If you really will have it that I am likely
to die soon you may humor yourselves by taking any course that seems to satisfy your scruples--it
is not worth my while to interfere with your whims."  The reformers therefore had clearly nothing
to expect so far as the Royal Speech could deal with expectations.  But they found that they
had still less to expect from the intentions of the Ministry.

[Sidenote: 1830--Wellington as a politician]

In the debate on the address, in reply to the speech from the throne, Lord Grey took occasion
to ask for some exposition of Ministerial policy with regard to reform of the representative
system.  Then the Duke of Wellington delivered a speech which may be described as unique in
its way.  It would be impossible to put into words any statement more frankly opposed to all
Parliamentary reform.  The greatest orator that ever lived, the profoundest judge who ever
laid down the law to a jury, could not have prepared a statement more comprehensive and more
exact as a condemnation of all reform than that which the victor of Waterloo was able to enunciate
with all confidence and satisfaction. He laid it down that it would be utterly beyond the power
of the wisest political philosopher to devise a Constitution so near to absolute perfection
as that with which Englishmen living in the reign of his present Majesty, William the Fourth,
had been endowed by the wisdom of their ancestors.  He affirmed that he had never heard any
suggestion which contained the slightest promise of an improvement on that Constitution.  He
repeated, in various forms of repetition, that Englishmen already possessed all the freedom
that it was good for men to have, that the rights of all classes were equally maintained, that
the happiness of every one was secured, so far as law could secure it, and that the only thing
for reasonable Englishmen to do was to open their eyes and recognize the advantages conferred
upon them by the Constitution under which they were happy enough to live.

The Duke of Wellington probably knew nothing of {109} Voltaire's philosopher who maintained
that everything was for the best in this best of all possible worlds, but he seemed to be pervaded
by the same sentiment of complete satisfaction when he contemplated the British Constitution.
Finally, he declared that, so far from having any intention to touch with irreverent hand that
sacred political structure for the vain purpose of improvement, he was determined to resist
to the uttermost of his power every effort to interfere with the constitutional arrangements
which had done so much for the prosperity and the glory of the empire.  We do not quote the
exact words of the Duke of Wellington's speech, but we feel sure we are giving a faithful version
of the meaning which he intended to convey and succeeded very clearly in conveying.  The Duke
of Wellington was undoubtedly one of the greatest soldiers the world has ever seen.  As a soldier
of conquest he was not indeed to be compared with an Alexander, a Caesar, or a Napoleon, but
as a soldier of defence he has probably never had a superior.  As an administrator, too, he
had shown immense capacity both in India and in Europe, and had more than once brought what
seemed absolute chaos into order and shape.  But he had no gift for the understanding of politics,
and it was happy for him, at more than one crisis of his career, that he was quite aware of
his own political incapacity and was ready to defer to the judgment of other men who understood
such things better than he did.  We have already seen how he accepted the guidance of Peel
when it became necessary to yield the claim for Catholic Emancipation, and he was commonly
in the habit of saying that Peel understood all such matters better than he could pretend to.
He was not, therefore, the minister who would ruin a State or bring a State into revolution
by obstinate adhesion to his own views in despite of every advice and every warning, and no
doubt when he was delivering his harangue against all possible schemes of reform he felt still
convinced that he was merely expressing the unalterable opinion of Peel and every other loyal
subject whose judgment ought to prevail with a law-abiding people.

{110}

In the House of Commons Brougham gave notice that on an early day he would bring forward a
motion on the subject of political reform.  Thus, therefore, the trumpet of battle was sounded
on both sides.  The struggle must now be fought out to the end.  Nothing, however, could be
done until the Ministry had been driven from office, and it was not by any means certain that
in the House of Commons, as it was then constituted, a direct vote on the question of reform
would end in a defeat of the Duke of Wellington's Government.  Something that seemed almost
like an accident brought about a crisis sooner than had been anticipated.  Sir Henry Parnell
brought forward a motion for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into, and report
upon, the estimates and amounts submitted by his Majesty with regard to the civil service.
This motion had the support of the Liberal leaders and was strongly opposed by the Government.
No one could have been surprised at the opposition offered by the Government, for Sir Henry
Parnell's was just the sort of motion which every Ministry is sure to oppose.  A government
prepares its own estimates, and is not apt to be in favor of the appointment of an outside
committee to inquire into their amount and their appropriation.  Still, the whole question
was not one to be regarded as of capital importance in ordinary times, and therefore, although
the debate was one of great interest both inside and outside the House of Commons, it did not
seem likely to lead to any momentous and immediate consequences.

[Sidenote: 1830--Ministerial resignations]

Sir Henry Parnell was a man of ability and character, and was regarded in the House as an authority
on financial questions.  He belonged to the family of Parnell the poet, the friend of Swift
and Pope, and he afterwards became the first Lord Congleton, taking his title from that part
of Cheshire where the poet and his ancestors had lived.  In years, much later years, that belonged
to our own times another member of the Parnell family made for himself a conspicuous place
in the House of Commons and in Imperial politics, the late Charles Stewart Parnell, the famous
leader of the Irish National party.  Sir Henry {111} Parnell carried his motion by a majority
of twenty-nine in the House of Commons.

Now in the ordinary course of things there was nothing in such an event to compel the resignation
of a Ministry.  It would have been quite reasonable for any Government to express a willingness
to meet the wishes of the House on such a subject, to agree to the appointment of a committee,
and then go on as if nothing particular had occurred.  But it sometimes happens that a Government
is willing, or even anxious, to accept defeat on a side issue, although of minor importance,
in order to escape from, or at all events to postpone, a decision on some question of vital
import.  Sometimes, too, there are reasons, well known to all members of a Government but not
yet in the knowledge of the public, which incline a Ministry to find a reason for resigning
office in the result of some casual division which cannot be said to amount to a vote of want
of confidence.  Not many years have passed since a Liberal Government, which might have seemed
to ordinary observers to be secure in its position, thought it well to accept a vote on the
supply of cordite in the army stores as a vote of want of confidence, and accordingly went
out of office.  The Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel appear to have come to the conclusion
that the success of Sir Henry Parnell's motion would furnish them with a plausible excuse for
withdrawing at a convenient moment from an unpromising position.  Henry Brougham, as we have
already said, had given formal notice in the House of Commons that he would bring forward a
motion for leave to introduce a definite scheme of Parliamentary reform.  Now everybody knew
that Brougham was at that time thoroughly earnest on the subject of reform, and that he had,
during the recent general election, the best possible reasons for knowing that the great majority
in the North of England, at all events, was behind him.  On the other hand, ministers themselves
had had ample opportunities of finding out, during the elections, that a large number of those
whom at other times they might have regarded as their own supporters were estranged from them
or had actually turned {112} against them.  The Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel probably
thought that their wisest course would be to let Lord Grey and Brougham and their friends try
what they could do with the monstrous spectre of reform which they had conjured up, and wait
till the country had recovered its senses before again undertaking to act as ministers of the
Crown.

[Sidenote: 1830--Wellington and Peel resign]

An odd and rather absurd incident, which created much scandal and alarm at the time, and soon
passed out of public recollection, had helped no doubt to bring the Duke of Wellington and
Peel to their decision.  The King and Queen had been invited to dine with the Lord Mayor and
the Corporation at the Guildhall on November 9, and had accepted the invitation.  The Duke
of Wellington and the other ministers were to be among the guests.

Shortly before the appointed day the Duke of Wellington got a letter from the Lord Mayor-elect,
telling him that he had received private information about some mysterious organized attempt
to be made against the Duke himself on the occasion of his visit to the City, and urging the
Duke to have the streets well guarded with soldiers, in order to prevent the success of any
such lawless and atrocious enterprise.  Now the Duke was not a man to care much, personally,
about an alarm of this kind, but he thought it would be rather an unseemly spectacle if the
streets of the City had to be guarded by troops when the new sovereign went to be the guest
of the Lord Mayor at the Guildhall.  The attempt, to be sure, was said to be directed against
the Duke himself and not against the King; but still it would hardly do, it would scarcely
have a happy effect on public opinion at home and abroad, if the first visit of the Sailor
King, the popular William, to the City were to be made the occasion of a murderous attack on
the King's Prime Minister.  It might get into the public mind that what had happened in Paris
was likely to happen in London, and the effect on Europe might be most damaging to the credit
of the country.  So the banquet was put off; the sovereign and his Prime Minister did not visit
the City.  A vague panic raged everywhere, {113} and the Funds went alarmingly down.  The story
which had impressed the Lord Mayor-elect was in all likelihood only a mere scare.  But it had,
no doubt, some effect in deciding the action of the Ministry.  At all events, the Duke of Wellington
and his colleagues determined to try what strength the reformers had behind them.  They tendered
their resignation; the King was prevailed upon to accept it, and it was announced to Parliament
and the public that the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel were no longer in office.

{114}

CHAPTER LXX.

LE ROI D'YVETOT.

[Sidenote: 1830-37--Eccentricities of William the Fourth]

We may turn for a moment from the path of politics to mention a fact that is worth mentioning,
if only because of the immense difference between the accepted usages of that time and any
usages that would be possible in our days.  King William shortly after his accession created
his eldest son Earl of Munster, and conferred upon all his other sons and daughters the rank
that belongs to the younger children of a marquis.  The King's living children, as has been
said before, were all illegitimate.  In raising them to the rank of the peerage King William
was only following the example of many or most of his predecessors. People thought none the
less of him, at the time, because he had bestowed such honor upon his progeny.  Charles Greville,
the famous Clerk of the Council to George the Fourth and William the Fourth, describes the
new sovereign with characteristic frankness and lack of reverence.

The early bringing-up of the new King had certainly not tended much to fill him with the highest
aspirations or to qualify him for the most dignified duties of royalty.  "Never," says Greville,
"was elevation like that of King William the Fourth.

{115}

He appears to have been a man of rather kindly, and certainly not ungenerous, disposition,
and it is decidedly to his credit, in one sense, that the expectations of most of the Whigs
were disappointed when he came to the throne.  During his career in the Navy he had a way of
disregarding orders, and when in command of a squadron would sometimes take his own vessel
on an expedition according to his own fancy, and leave the remainder of the vessels under his
charge to do as well as they could without him until it pleased him to return.  Some of his
later exploits in this way drew down on him a marked expression of disapproval from the Duke
of Wellington, then at the head of the Government, and for this reason it was thought by many,
when William came to the throne, that he would be sure to dismiss from his service the Prime
Minister who once had offended him so deeply.  A man with a more malevolent turn of mind would
very likely have acted as public expectation seemed to foreshadow, but William, as we have
seen, soon made it clear that he had no fault to find with the Duke of Wellington, that he
cherished no ill-will and was quite ready to let bygones be bygones.  There can be no doubt
that William, although he had no great defects of any deep or serious nature, no defects at
least which are not common enough among the sovereigns of his time, was yet as undignified
a figure for a throne as even the modern comic opera itself could imagine.

He was eccentric to a degree that sometimes seemed to suggest a lurking tendency to insanity.
He was fussy, garrulous, excitable, noisy, overbearing, apt to take strong likes and dislikes
and to express his likings and his dislikings with an utter disregard for the accepted conventionalities
of social life.

He could explode at a moment's notice into a burst of rage which sometimes made itself felt
for hours, and perhaps when the next day came he had forgotten all about it and greeted those
who were its especial objects with hilarious good-humor.  There were many anecdotes told about
him in the days not long before his accession to the throne which were commonly believed by
those who knew him, {116} and which it would not be possible to reproduce in the modest pages
suitable to our own times.

[Sidenote: 1830-37--Some strange doings of the King]

Now it would certainly be most unfair to accept every story told by gossip about some exalted
personage as a story worthy of credit and qualified to take its place in authentic history,
but, at the same time, it is quite fair and reasonable when forming an estimate of the exalted
personage's character to take some account of the sayings of contemporary gossip.  We may be
sure that there were stories told about the father of Frederick the Great, about Catherine
of Russia, about a late King of Bavaria, which were not true, but none the less the historian
is undoubtedly helped to form an estimate of the ways and doings of these exalted personages
by the collective testimony of the stories that are told about them and believed in their own
time. William the Fourth could not, when he ascended the throne, suddenly shake off all the
rough manners and odd ways which he had allowed himself to foster during his long career as
a Prince of the Blood Royal, as a sailor, and as a man much given to the full indulgence of
his humors, whatever they might happen to be.

After he had become King, and it was part of his royal duty to give great State dinners, it
was sometimes his way to behave himself on the occasions of those festivities after a fashion
which even W. S. Gilbert never could have caricatured in any "Mikado" or other such piece of
delightful burlesque.  The King was fond of making speeches at his State dinners, and it was
his way to ramble along on all manner of subjects in the same oration.  Whatever idea happened
to come uppermost in his mind he usually blurted out, without the slightest regard for time,
place, or company.  This habit of his became very embarrassing now and then when some of the
ambassadors of great European States happened to be guests at his dinner-table.  In the presence
of the French Ambassador, for instance, the King, while delivering his after-dinner speech,
would suddenly recall some of his recollections of the days when the great Napoleon held the
Imperial throne of France, and he would then, perhaps, close a sentence {117} with an exultant
reference to the glorious triumphs we had obtained over our enemies the French.

On one occasion when Leopold, King of the Belgians, was dining with him the King suddenly observed
that his royal guest was drinking water, and he called to him with an oath and demanded what
he was drinking that sort of stuff for; and not content with the poor King's plea that he drank
water because he liked it better than wine, William insisted that, in his house at least, his
royal brother must swallow the juice of the grape.  One day when Talleyrand was among his guests
King William favored the company with a very peculiar sort of speech, and he concluded the
speech by proposing a toast which is described by those who heard it as utterly unsuited for
publication.  One of the guests was Charles Greville.  He was anxious to know what impression
this extraordinary performance had made upon Talleyrand.  He asked Talleyrand in a whisper
if he had ever heard anything like that before. But Talleyrand, who had listened to the oration
and the toast with unmoved composure, was not to be thrown off his balance or drawn into any
expression of opinion by an indiscreet question.  He merely answered that it was certainly
"bien remarquable."

The Duchess of Kent and the young Princess Victoria were dining with the King one day, and
some of the guests, although not all, were well aware that there had been differences of opinion
lately between William and his sister-in-law.  The guests, however, were amazed indeed when
the King rose and delivered a speech in which he raked up all his old grievances against the
Duchess of Kent, and complained of her and denounced her as if he were the barrister, the hero
of the old familiar story, who, having no case, is advised to abuse the plaintiff's attorney.
The child Princess Victoria is said to have been so distressed by some parts of this unexpected
oration that she burst into tears; but the Duchess, her mother, retained self-control, and
sat as composedly silent as if the King had been taking his part in some dignified State ceremonial.

{118}

King William sometimes broke the conventionalities of royal deportment in a quite different
sort of way, in a way which undoubtedly shocked the traditional sensibilities of the older
officials of the Court, but with which the lovers of modern and more simple manners are inclined
sometimes, perhaps, to have a sort of wilful sympathy.  He would sometimes insist on dropping
some great royal visitor from abroad at the door of his hotel, just as if he were an ordinary
London resident giving a lift in his carriage to a friend from the country.  At the most solemn
State ceremonial he would bustle about irresponsibly, and talk in a loud voice to any one who
might seem to him at the moment to be an attractive person with whom to have a pleasant chat.
It might happen that some great State functionary or some dignified ambassador from a foreign
capital, who ought to have been spoken to long before, was kept waiting until the unconcerned
sovereign had had his talk out with some comparatively insignificant personage who had been
known to the King in former days, and whose appearance brought with it certain early and jovial
associations.  Many of the King's minor offences in this way seem now to the unconcerned reader
about as venial as that by which Marie Antoinette in her early Court days broke through the
established rules of etiquette among the ladies of her bedchamber by snatching her chemise
one morning with her own hands instead of allowing it to pass in its regular order from the
lowest to the highest degree of the attendant women.  But it certainly was perhaps a little
too much of a departure from the usages of a Court when the monarch, about to sign an important
document in the presence of his State Council, flung down the quill with which he had begun
to write and proclaimed it to be a damned bad pen.

[Sidenote: 1830-37--Béranger's King of Yvetot]

Every day the King was sure to astonish those around him by some breach of Court conventionality,
little or great.  He was liable to strong likings and dislikings, and he took no pains to conceal
his sentiments in either case.  He seems to have had an affectionate regard for his young niece,
the Princess Victoria, and a strong dislike to her {119} mother.  The Duchess of Kent would
appear to have had no particular liking for him, and she very much objected to be brought into
familiar association with the sons and daughters of the eccentric sovereign. Perhaps it is
not to William's discredit that he always treated these children as if they were his legitimate
descendants.  It was no fault of theirs if the ceremony of marriage had not preceded their
coming into the world, and the King apparently did not see why even the most righteous person
should feel any objection to their frequent presence. But one can understand that the Duchess
of Kent must have often wished that the sense of public decorum, which was even already growing
up in English society, should not be shocked by the too frequent reminder that the King had
several children who were not born in wedlock. Béranger, the once popular French lyric poet,
satirized a certain royal personage, a contemporary of William the Fourth, as the King of Yvetot.
There was a French legend which told of the conditions under which the descendants of a certain
lord of the manor in Brittany had been created by Clotaire kings of Yvetot.  Béranger's monarch
is described by him as one having made little mark of his own in history, who could live very
comfortably without troubling himself about glory, and who liked to be crowned with a simple
cotton nightcap.  This monarch, the poet tells us, could enjoy his four meals a day, and liked
very often to lift his glass to his lips.

There are many reasons, we are told, why some of his subjects might have called him a father
to his people, but the name was not applied by the poet in the ordinary metaphorical sense
of the word.  He never desired to trouble his neighbors, and never disturbed his mind with
any projects for the increase of his dominions, and, like a true model to all potentates, found
his ambition quite satisfied in the indulgence of his own pleasures while desiring as little
as possible to interfere with the pastimes of his people.  Every verse of the ballad ends by
telling us what a good little king was this sovereign of Yvetot.  With certain slight alterations
Béranger's satirical verses might {120} have served as a picture of William the Fourth.  But
our good little King of Yvetot was not destined altogether to have quite an easy time of it,
although he was more successful in that way than the monarch for whom Béranger intended his
satire.  William had come in for the age of reform.  The whole course of English history hardly
tells us of any reign, of anything like equal length, into which so many reforms were crowded.
William the Fourth, we may be sure, would never have troubled himself or any of his subjects
about any projects of improvement in the political or social conditions of his realm.  He would
have been quite content to let things go on just as they had been going in the days before
he came to the throne, and would probably have asked no higher title of affection from the
loyalty of his subjects than the familiar name that they gave him of the Sailor King.  When
for a while he began to be called the Patriot King he must have associated the title with a
sense of all the worry and trouble brought upon him by the incessant preparation of patriotic
projects for the improvement of everything all over the country.

[Sidenote: 1830-37--Lord Grey and William the Fourth]

It seems like a curious freak of fate that such a sovereign, at such a time, should have had
to get rid of the Duke of Wellington and accept Lord Grey as his Prime Minister.  The Duke
of Wellington was himself simple, plain, and occasionally rough in manners, with little taste
for Court ceremonial and little inclination for the exchange of stately phrase and inflated
language.  There are many anecdotes told of Wellington which show that he had no more liking
or aptitude for the ways dear to a Court functionary than King William himself had.  Lord Grey
was a man of the most stately bearing and the most refined style. His manner was courtly without
the slightest affectation; he was courtly by nature, and dignity was an element of his every-day
demeanor.  He had been in constant companionship with some of the greatest statesmen and orators
of his time, but even his devotion to Charles James Fox had never beguiled him into any of
Fox's careless, free-and-easy ways.  He was sorely tried, as all {121} contemporary accounts
tell us, by the abrupt and overbearing manners of his son-in-law, Lord Durham, but he always
contrived, in public at least, to bear Durham's eccentricities with unruffled temper and undisturbed
dignity.  Such a statesman must have had a hard time of it with King William of Yvetot; but
let it be freely admitted that King William of Yvetot must have had a hard time of it with
such a minister as Lord Grey.  William would probably, if left to his own inclinations, have
made up his mind to hold on to the Duke of Wellington, join with the Duke in opposing all schemes
of reform, and face the music, if we may adopt a familiar modern phrase.  But there was good
sense enough in William's head, for all his odd ways and his unkingly humors, to teach him
that he had better not begin his reign by setting himself against the public opinion of the
great majority of his subjects, and therefore our good King of Yvetot consented to become,
if not the head, at least the figure-head of a great historical movement.

{122}

CHAPTER LXXI.

REFORM.

[Sidenote: 1830--Brougham and the ministry]

The King had no other course left open to him than to send for Lord Grey and invite him to
form an Administration.  Lord Grey was quite ready for the task, and must, for some time back,
have had his mind constantly occupied with plans for such an arrangement.  About some of the
appointments there was no difficulty whatever.  It was obvious that Lord Melbourne, Lord Althorp,
and Lord John Russell would be invited to take office, but there was a certain difficulty about
Brougham.  The difficulty, however, was not about offering a place to Brougham; the only trouble
was to find the place which would suit him, and his acceptance of which would also suit his
leaders and his colleagues. Nothing could be more certain than the fact that Brougham must
be invited to a place in the new Administration.  He was a strong man with the country, and
he now had a distinct following of his own.

Among the yet unenfranchised districts, especially in the North of England, Brougham probably
counted for more, so far as the question of reform was concerned, than all the other reformers
in Parliament put together.  It would be idle to think of creating a Reform Ministry just then
without Henry Brougham.  The new Administration could not possibly get on without him.  But
then it was by no means certain that the new Administration could get on with him, and no one
could understand this difficulty better than the stately and aristocratic Lord Grey.  Grey
had simply to choose between encountering an uncertainty or undertaking an impossibility, and
of course he chose the former alternative.  He had to invite Brougham to take office, but the
question was what office it was {123} most advisable to ask him to take.  Brougham was offered
the position of Attorney-General, the acceptance of which allows a man to retain his seat in
the House of Commons, while it puts him directly on the way to a high promotion to the judicial
bench.  Brougham flatly declined the offer, and seemed to be somewhat offended that it should
have been made to him.  Then Lord Grey thought of offering him the dignified position of Master
of the Rolls, coupled with the exceptional arrangement that he was still to retain his seat
in the House of Commons.  Lord Grey was naturally very anxious to conciliate Brougham, and
looked with much dread to the prospect of Brougham breaking off from the negotiations altogether
and retaining his seat in the House as an independent critic of the Ministry.  Nothing could
well be more alarming to the head of the new Administration than the thought of Brougham thus
sitting as an independent critic, prepared at any minute to come down with the force and fury
of his eloquence on this or that section of the new Reform Bill, and to denounce it to the
country as utterly inadequate to satisfy the just demands of the people.  The King, however,
suggested, with some good sense, that Brougham as a dissatisfied Master of the Rolls still
sitting in the House of Commons might prove an inconvenient and dangerous colleague.

Lord Grey thought the matter over once more, and began to see another way of getting out of
the difficulty.  Why not give to Brougham the highest legal appointment in the service of the
Crown, and thus promote him completely out of the House of Commons?  Why not make him Lord
Chancellor at once?  This offer could not but satisfy even Brougham's well-known self-conceit,
and it would transplant his eloquence to the quieter atmosphere of the House of Lords, where
little harm could be done to the surrounding vegetation by its too luxuriant growth.  In plain
words, it might be taken for granted that the House of Lords would reject any reform measure,
however moderate, when it was first introduced to the notice of the peers, and therefore no
particular harm could come from Brougham's presence in the hereditary assembly.  But {124}
Brougham in the House of Commons might, at any time, be so far carried away by his own emotions,
and his own eloquence, and his own masterful temperament as to bring his colleagues into many
a difficulty, and force on them the unpleasant alternative of having to choose between going
further than they had intended to go or failing to keep up with Brougham as the accredited
and popular promoter of reform.

[Sidenote: 1830--Brougham as Lord Chancellor]

When Lord Grey next conferred with the King he was not a little surprised to hear from the
sovereign's own lips a suggestion that Brougham might be offered the position of Lord Chancellor.
Grey told the King that he had been almost afraid to start such a proposition, inasmuch as
William had discouraged the idea of making Brougham Master of the Rolls; but the King with
shrewd good sense directed Grey's attention to the fact, which had been already an operative
force in Grey's own mind, that to make Brougham Master of the Rolls, and yet keep him in the
House of Commons, might still leave him a very dangerous colleague, while by making him Lord
Chancellor the King and his Prime Minister could get him practically out of the way altogether.

So it was agreed between the King and his Prime Minister that Lord Brougham should be made
Lord Chancellor, and thus forfeit his right to sit in the House of Commons.  If we speak with
literal accuracy it is not quite correct to say that a man by becoming Lord Chancellor becomes
necessarily, and at once, a member of the House of Lords.  The Lord Chancellor of course presides
over the sittings of the House of Lords, but he is not necessarily, from the first, a member
of the hereditary assembly.  He sits on the woolsack, which, though actually in the House of
Lords, is not technically to be described as occupying such a position.  If a Lord Chancellor
who is actually a peer desires to take part in a debate he has to leave the woolsack and stand
on some part of the floor which is technically within the Chamber.  On more than one historic
occasion some inconvenience has arisen from the fact that a newly created Lord Chancellor had
not yet been {125} made a peer, and therefore was not entitled to take part in a debate, or
even to speak for some ceremonial purpose within the Chamber on behalf of the House of Lords.
Brougham as a matter of fact was not made a peer until a little time after he had become Lord
Chancellor.

All this, however, is only mentioned here as a matter of curious and technical interest to
the reader of Parliamentary history.  Brougham was made a peer soon enough for all purposes,
and in the mean time he was removed altogether from the House of Commons.  Brougham did not
accept his new position without some grumbling.  Probably he had the idea that Lord Grey and
others of his colleagues were glad to have him safely provided for out of the range of the
representative assembly, where his eloquence might now and then become an inconvenient influence.
He accepted the position, however, and became a member of the House of Lords.  From that time
his real influence over the country may be said to have come to an end.  After he ceased to
be Lord Chancellor he remained simply an eloquent, overbearing member of the House of Lords,
often delighting the galleries and the public with his meteoric flashes of eloquence; but his
power as a reformer was gone, and for the greater part of his remaining career, when one or
two important questions to which he was pledged had been disposed of, he took little interest
in any movement of reform.

Lord Althorp became Chancellor of the Exchequer.  Lord Althorp, who was leader of the House
of Commons as well as Chancellor of the Exchequer, was an influential person in those days,
but is almost forgotten in our time.  He was a model country gentleman, devoted to the duties
and the delights of such a position; had a natural gift for farming and no natural inclination
whatever for politics.  Not merely did he make no pretensions to oratory, but, even for a country
gentleman, he could not be regarded as a particularly good speaker.  Yet he undoubtedly was
a man of much weight in the Parliamentary life of his time.  He was thoroughly straightforward
and disinterested; he was absolutely truthful and honorable; his word was his bond, {126} and
the House of Commons and the country in general could always feel sure that any advice given
by Lord Althorp was guided by the light of his own judgment and his own conscience, and that
he was never unduly swayed by fear, favor, or affection, whether towards sovereign or party.
Lord Melbourne was Home Secretary.

[Sidenote: 1830--The Reform Administration]

If we glance down the list of this Reform Administration to-day we shall all probably be struck
by the fact that the men who were regarded as juniors and something like beginners have come
to occupy, in many cases, a higher position in political history than their elders and leaders.
Lord John Russell, for instance, was not a member of Lord Grey's Cabinet; he only held the
office of Paymaster of the Forces. From his first entrance into the House of Commons Lord John
Russell had distinguished himself as a reformer.  In 1819 he had brought forward a motion for
a reform in the Parliamentary system, and he had renewed the motion in almost every succeeding
year.  He had been a steady supporter of the movement for the repeal of the Test and Corporation
Acts, which imposed an unjust and utterly irrational disqualification on Dissenters, and had
been a zealous advocate of the measures for the emancipation of Roman Catholics.  All his early
life had been a training for statesmanship.  He had been associated with scholars and thinkers,
with poets and historians.  He had gone through Spain while the war with Napoleon was still
going on, and had been welcomed by the Duke of Wellington in his camp.  He had visited Napoleon
at Elba, and had talked over politics and war with the fallen Emperor.  As Disraeli said of
him many years later, he had sat at the feet of Fox and had measured swords with Canning. 
Lord Palmerston became for the first time Foreign Secretary in the Grey Administration.  He
had been a junior Lord of the Admiralty in a former Government, and he had more lately been
Secretary at War; but at the time that he first became Foreign Secretary under Lord Grey few
indeed could have anticipated that he was destined to become one of the most powerful English
statesmen known to the century.  Sir James Graham became First Lord of the Admiralty, and {127}
some of us can still remember him as one of the foremost debaters in the House of Commons.
Lord Durham, Grey's son-in-law, accepted what may almost be called the nominal office of Lord
Privy Seal.

At that time Durham was regarded as a brilliant, eccentric sort of man, a perfervid reformer
on whose perseverance or consistency no one could reckon for a moment--perhaps the comet of
a season, but if so then surely a comet of a season only.  We now recognize Durham as the man
of statesmanlike foresight and genius who converted, at a great crisis, a Canada burning with
internal hatred between race and sect, and the one common hatred of Imperial rule, into the
Canada which we now know as one of the most peaceful, prosperous, and loyal parts of the British
Empire.  Mr. Stanley, afterwards Lord Derby, the famous "Rupert of debate," became Chief Secretary
to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland. Grey appointed Lord Plunket Lord Chancellor for Ireland,
and the name of Lord Plunket will always be remembered as that of one of the greatest Parliamentary
orators known to modern times.

The new Ministry was, therefore, well prepared to carry on the battle of reform.  Lord Grey
had made up his mind that Lord John Russell, although not in the Cabinet, was the most fitting
member of the Administration to conduct the Reform Bill through the House of Commons. As soon
as Grey had completed his arrangements for the construction of a Ministry, Lord Durham put
himself into communication with Lord John Russell.  Durham told Lord John Russell that Lord
Grey wished him to consult with Russell as to the formation of a small private committee whose
task should be to create and put into shape some definite scheme as the foundation of the great
constitutional change which the new Government had been called into power to establish.  Lord
John Russell of course accepted the suggestion, and after some consideration it was agreed
by Lord Durham and himself that Sir James Graham and Lord Duncannon, then Commissioner of Woods
and Forests, should be invited to join them, and make a committee of four for the purpose of
devising a {128} comprehensive and practicable measure of reform.  Durham then asked Lord John
to put on paper at once his own idea with regard to the outlines of such a plan, so that it
might be taken into consideration by the committee at their earliest meeting.

[Sidenote: 1830--The Reform Bill]

Lord John Russell's book, "The English Government and Constitution," tells us all what was
the central idea in his mind when he set himself to construct the groundwork of a Reform Bill.
He tells us, alluding to the task assigned to him, "It was not my duty to cut the body of our
old parent into pieces, and to throw it into a Medea's caldron, with the hope of reviving the
vigor of youth."  He thought it his duty not to turn aside "from the track of the Constitution
into the maze of fancy or the wilderness of abstract rights."  "It was desirable, in short,
as it appeared to me, while sweeping away gross abuses, to avail ourselves, as far as possible,
of the existing frame and body of our Constitution.  Thus, if the due weight and influence
of property could be maintained, by preserving the representation of a proportion of the small
boroughs with an improved franchise, it was desirable rather to build on the old foundations
than to indulge our fancy or our conceit in choosing a new site and erecting on new soil--perhaps
on sand--an edifice entirely different from all that had hitherto existed."

No Reformer who understood the general character of the English people, and who had studied
the development of political growth in England, could have gone more prudently and wisely about
the work of bringing the existing Constitution into harmony with the altering conditions, and
removing out of its way all difficulties that might interfere with its gradual and safe development
in the future.  But Russell was clearly of opinion, and in this he was entirely in accordance
with Lord Grey, that nothing but a large and comprehensive measure would be of any real use,
and that "to nibble at disfranchisement and cramp reform by pedantic adherence to existing
rights would be to deceive expectation, to whet appetite, and to bring about that revolution
which it was our object to {129} avert."  Russell drew up a sketch of his proposed Reform Bill,
which he submitted to Lord Durham, and on the draft of the measure thus submitted to him Lord
Durham offered some suggestions and alterations of his own.  Russell's speech was written on
a single piece of letter-paper, and is reproduced with Lord Durham's notes in Russell's book,
"The English Government and Constitution." The opening paragraph proposes that "the fifty boroughs
having the smallest population according to the latest census should be disfranchised altogether."
This proposal had Lord Durham's full approval, and he noted the fact that according to his
calculation it would disfranchise all boroughs having a population of not more than 1400. 
The second paragraph proposed that fifty other boroughs of the least considerable population,
above the line already drawn, should be allowed to send only one member each to the House of
Commons.  This proposal also had the approval of Lord Durham, and he notes it would apply to
boroughs not having more than 3000 inhabitants each.

Then came a paragraph which proposed that all persons qualified to serve on juries should have
the right of voting, and to this clause Lord Durham objected, regarding it probably as an embodiment
of the principle of what were called in later days "fancy franchises."  The fourth paragraph
recommended that no person should be entitled to vote in cities or boroughs, except in the
City of London, in Westminster, and in Southwark, unless he were a householder rated at ten
pounds a year, and unless, moreover, he had paid his parochial taxes for three years, within
three months after they became due, and had lived in the constituency for six months previous
to the election at which he claimed to vote.  The fifth clause proposed that the unrepresented
parts of London should have among them four or six additional members, that eighteen large
towns should have representation--and let the reader try to realize for himself what the supposed
representation of the country could have been when at least eighteen large towns were, up to
that time, wholly unrepresented--and that twenty counties should send two additional members
{130} each to the House of Commons. Another paragraph limited the right of voting in the newly
enfranchised towns to householders rated at ten pounds a year or persons qualified to serve
on juries.  Lord Durham approved of the rating qualification, but, consistently with his objection
already mentioned, struck out the words which connected the right to vote with the right to
serve on a jury.  It is not necessary to go through the whole list of the proposals set out
in the sketch drawn up by Lord John Russell.  Those which we have already mentioned possess
a peculiar historical interest and illustrate in the most precise and effective manner the
whole nature of the system which, up to that time, had passed off as constitutional government.

[Sidenote: 1831--Vote by ballot]

It will be seen that, on the whole, Lord Durham was a more advanced reformer than even Lord
John Russell.  The entire scheme, as drawn out by Russell, consisted of ten paragraphs or clauses,
and it was at once submitted to the consideration of the four men who formed the committee.
There was much discussion as to the borough qualification for voters, and the committee finally
agreed to recommend that it should be uniform, and thus get rid of what were called the freemen
and the scot-and-lot voters, a class of persons endowed with antiquated and eccentric qualifications
which possibly might have had some meaning in them and some justification under the conditions
of a much earlier day, but which had since grown into a system enabling wealthier men to create
in constituencies a body of thoroughly dependent or positively corrupt voters.  The desire
of the committee was to extend the voting privilege as far as possible consistently with due
regard for the principle that the voters ought to be men of substance enough to insure their
independence.  This security they believed they could attain by establishing the ten-pound
franchise.  This seems, no doubt, to modern eyes a somewhat eccentric and haphazard line of
demarkation; but it must be remembered that even until much later days the ten pounds rating
principle in boroughs held its own, and was believed to be absolutely essential to the {131}
maintenance of an independent and upright body of voters, and to the securing of such a body
against the danger of being "swamped," according to the once familiar word, by the votes of
the dependent and the corrupt.

There were some slight differences of opinion between Lord John Russell and Lord Durham as
to the extent to which the total or partial disfranchisement of the small boroughs ought to
go, but the scheme, as finally shaped, had on the whole the thorough approval of the committee.
One important proposal, brought forward, it was understood, by Lord Durham, was agreed to and
formally adopted by the committee, but not without strong opposition on the part of Lord John
Russell. This was the proposal for the introduction of the vote by ballot.  When Lord Grey's
Cabinet came to consider the draft scheme the proposal for the introduction of the vote by
ballot was struck out altogether.  The time, in fact, had not come for the adoption of so great
a reform. Forty years had to pass before the mind of the English public could be brought to
recognize the necessity for such a change.  Statesmanship had still to learn how much the value
of a popular suffrage was diminished or disparaged by the system which left the voter at the
absolute mercy of some landlord or some patron who desired that the vote should be given for
the candidate whom he favored.  The ballot even then was demanded by the whole body of the
Chartists.  Orator Hunt, one of the most popular heroes of the Chartist agitation, had only
just defeated Mr. Stanley at Preston.  Daniel O'Connell was in favor of the ballot, because
he saw that without its protection the Irish tenant farmer would have to vote for his landlord's
candidate or would be turned out of his farm.  But the general feeling among statesmen, as
well as among the outer public, was that there was something un-English about the ballot system,
and it was contended that the true Englishman ought to have the courage of his opinion and
to vote as his conscience told him, without caring whom he offended. Edmund Burke in one of
his speeches tells us that the system which is founded on the heroic virtues is sure to have
its {132} superstructure in failure and disappointment, meaning thereby that every system is
doomed to failure which assumes as its principle the idea that all men can at all times be
up to the level of the heroic mood.  Some of us can well remember the days when English statesmen
still declared that the compulsion of education was un-English, and that it ought to be left
to the free choice of the English parent whether he would have his children taught or leave
them untaught.

[Sidenote: 1831--Lord John Russell and the Reform Bill]

Lord Grey's Cabinet would have nothing to do with the ballot.  With this exception the draft
scheme as submitted by Lord John Russell was accepted by Lord Grey and his colleagues.  Then
it was laid before the King, and the King, according to Lord John Russell, gave it his ready
and cheerful sanction.  There were indeed some observers at the time who believed that the
King had cheerfully sanctioned the whole scheme of reform as proposed, because he still confidently
believed that nothing but the wreck of the Ministry was to come of it.  However that may have
been, it is certain that the King did give his full sanction to the measure, and the Government
prepared to introduce the first Reform Bill.

It was arranged that the conduct of the Bill in the House of Commons should be placed in the
hands of Lord John Russell.  This arrangement created, when the Bill was actually brought forward,
a good deal of adverse criticism in the House and in the country.  Some prominent members of
the Opposition in the House of Commons persuaded themselves, and tried to persuade their listeners,
that Lord Grey's Cabinet, by adopting such an arrangement, showed that there was no sincerity
in the professed desire for reform.  If the members of the Cabinet, it was argued, are such
believers in the virtue of reform, why do they not select one of their own body to introduce
the measure?  Lord John Russell was only Paymaster of the Forces, and had not a seat in the
Cabinet, and if he was taken out of his place and put into the most prominent position it could
only be because no member of the Cabinet could be found who was willing to undertake the task.
{133} The answer was very clear, even at the time, and it is obvious indeed to the generations
that had an opportunity of knowing how eminently Lord John Russell was qualified for the work
which had been entrusted to his hands.  He was a member of one of the greatest aristocratic
families in the land, and one of the practical dangers threatening the Reform Bill was the
alarm that might spread among the wealthier classes at the thought of a wild democratic movement
upsetting the whole principle of aristocratic predominance in the English constitutional system.
Still more important was the fact that Lord John Russell, who had distinguished himself already
as the most devoted promoter of constitutional reform, was a man peculiarly qualified by intellect
and by his skill in exposition to pilot such a measure through the House of Commons.

Lord John Russell had not yet won reputation as a great Parliamentary orator; nor did he, during
the whole of his long career, succeed in acquiring such a fame.  It was pointed out also, at
the time, that if Lord John Russell was selected to introduce the Reform Bill, although he
was only Paymaster of the Forces and had not a seat in the Cabinet, thus too had Edmund Burke
been selected to introduce the East India Bill, although he, like Lord John Russell, was only
Paymaster of the Forces and had not a seat in the Cabinet.  Indeed, to us, who now look back
on the events from a long distance of time, the impression would rather be that Lord Grey had
little or no choice in the matter.  He was not himself a member of the House of Commons, and
therefore could not introduce the Bill there. Brougham had ceased to be a member of the House
of Commons, and was therefore out of the question.  Lord Althorp, who had not yet succeeded
to the peerage, and had a seat in the representative chamber, was, as we have already said,
the poorest of {134} speakers, and utterly unsuited for the difficult task of steering so important
a measure through the troublous sea of Parliamentary debate.  Lord Grey, of course, was thoroughly
well acquainted with Russell's great abilities and his peculiar fitness for the task assigned
to him, and could, under no circumstances, have made a better choice.  But our only possible
difficulty now would be to say what other choice, under the existing conditions, he could possibly
have made.

[Sidenote: 1831--Need for secrecy about the Reform Bill]

Tuesday, March 1, 1831, was the day fixed for the introduction of the Reform Bill in the House
of Commons.  In the mean time, as we learn from all who can be considered authorities on the
subject, the nature and the plan of the proposed reforms were kept a profound secret, not only
from the public at large, but even from members of the House of Commons itself, with the exception
of those who belonged to the Administration.  Ministerial secrets, it is only fair to say,
are generally well kept in England, but instances have undoubtedly occurred in which the nature
of some approaching measure, which ought to have been held in the profoundest secrecy until
the time came for its official revelation, has leaked out and become fully known to the public
in advance.  There is, of course, great difficulty in preventing some inkling of the truth
getting prematurely out.  Cabinet Ministers generally have wives, and there are stories of
such wives having caught stray words from their husbands which put them on a track of discovery,
and not having the grace to keep strictly to themselves the discovery when made.  No such mischance,
however, appears to have attended the preparation of the Reform Bill.  It is said that there
must have been more than thirty persons who had official knowledge of the Ministerial plans,
and yet it does not appear that any definite idea as to their nature was obtained by the public.

It may perhaps be asked whether there was any solid reason for attaching so much importance
to the keeping of a secret which on a certain fixed and near-approaching day must, as a matter
of fact, be a secret no more.  Of course the imperative necessity of secrecy would be obvious
{135} in all cases where some policy was in preparation which might directly affect the interests
of foreign States.  In such a case it is clear that it might be of essential importance to
a Government not to let its plans become known to the world before it had put itself into a
condition to maintain its policy.  In measures that had to do with commercial and financial
interests it might often be of paramount importance that no false alarm or false expectations
of any kind should be allowed to disturb the business of the country before the fitting time
came for a full declaration.  But in the case of such a measure as the Reform Bill it may be
asked if any great advantage was to be gained by keeping the nature of the measure a complete
secret until the hour came for its full and official explanation.  With regard to this Reform
Bill there were many good reasons for maintaining the profoundest possible secrecy.  If any
premature reports got out at all they would be sure to be imperfect reports, indiscreet or
haphazard revelations of this or that particular part of the Bill, utterly wanting in balance,
symmetry, and comprehensiveness.  The whole thing was new to the country, and there would have
been much danger in fixing public attention upon some one part of the proposed reform until
the public could be in a position to judge the scheme as a complete measure.

Lord Grey's Government had to deal with two classes of men who were naturally and almost relentlessly
opposed to each other--the more clamorous reformers and the enemies of all reform.  It was
of immense importance that the latter class should, if possible, be prevailed upon to see--at
least the more intelligent and reasonable among them--that the Government had not gone so far
in the direction of reform as to make it seem a threatened revolution.  It was, on the other
hand, of immense importance to prevail upon the former class to see that the Government had
not so stunted and dwarfed its proposed reform as to render it incapable of anything like a
political and constitutional revolution.  Any sudden explosion of feeling on either side brought
about by some premature {136} and imperfect revelation might have caused the most serious trouble
in the country.

[Sidenote: 1831--Introduction of the Reform Bill]

Moreover, none of the ministers could possibly profess to be quite certain as to the genuine
wishes and purposes of his Majesty King William the Fourth with regard to the Reform Bill.
The King was not always in the same mood on the same subject for any two days in succession,
or indeed for any two hours of the same day.  If the opponents of all reform were to get a
knowledge of the clauses in the Bill least favorable to their own ideas as to their interests,
and were to make a commotion among the owners of the soil, the immediate effect might be to
discourage the King altogether, to fill his mind with a strong desire for escape from the uncongenial
part of a reformer and an overmastering anxiety to get rid of his reforming Ministry.  If,
on the other hand, the Peterloo men, the Chartists generally, and the populations of the northern
towns were to get into their minds through some imperfect revelation that the Ministerial Bill
was not intended to do half so much for them as they were demanding, and if in consequence
there were to be a stormy agitation throughout the country, then it was quite possible that
the King might take alarm and tell his ministers that it was hopeless to think of conciliating
such agitators, and that the safety of the State, and especially of the monarchy, could only
be provided for by postponing reform until some more favorable opportunity.  For all these
reasons, and many others, the leaders of the Government had their hearts set on keeping well
their secret until the right hour should come for its official disclosure, and it is a fact
of some historical interest, even to readers of the present day, that the secret was faithfully
kept.

The 1st of March, 1831, was a day of intense excitement and even tumult in and around the House
of Commons.  We are told that never before in that generation had there been so great a crowd
of persons struggling for seats in the galleries of the House of Commons.  It is recorded,
as an illustration of this intense eagerness on the part of the public, that every available
seat in the House {137} was occupied for hours before the business of the day began.  This,
however, is not a statement that could fill with surprise any reader of the present day. We
have been accustomed lately to read of occasions when not merely crowds of strangers anxious
to obtain seats, but crowds of members positively entitled to get seats, have had to take their
stand at the outer gates of the House of Commons hours before daybreak on the morning of the
day when some great measure was to be introduced, that they might get a reasonable chance of
a place, in order to hear a speech which could not possibly begin before four o'clock in the
afternoon.  Certainly the House of Commons did not then consist of nearly as many members as
it has at present, and the reformed House of Commons has not even yet been so reformed as to
impress it with the idea that there ought to be so many seats for so many members.  However
that may be, it is quite certain that there was intense interest manifested by the public on
the day when the Reform Bill was to be introduced; that immense crowds of people made for the
Parliament buildings, and that the approaches to the House of Commons were besieged by an excited
and tumultuous crowd.  There was, in fact, such a rush made to secure the seats in the galleries
available for the public, so much noisy struggling and quarrelling for seats, that the Speaker
was at last compelled to intervene and to declare that if quiet was not at once restored it
would be his duty to have the House cleared of all strangers.  Order was thus restored after
a time, and at last the moment arrived for Lord John Russell to introduce the Reform Bill.
That was indeed a moment of genuine historical interest.

The descriptions given at the time by listeners tell us that Russell began his speech in tones
which were unusually quiet, low, and reserved even for him.  It may be said at once that throughout
his whole career in Parliament Russell's manner had been peculiarly quiet and repressed, and
that his eloquence seldom had any fervor in it.  That he was a man of deep feeling and warm
emotions is certain, but both in public and private life there {138} was a coldness about him
which often led strangers into the quite erroneous belief that he kept apart from the crowd
because he was filled with a sense of his aristocratic position and wished to hold himself
aloof from contact with ordinary mortals. As a Parliamentary debater he was singularly clear,
concise, and unaffected.  He was a great master of phrases, and some odd epigrammatic sentences
of his still live in our common speech, and are quoted almost every day by persons who have
not the least idea as to the source from which they come.  His speech on the introduction of
the Reform Bill was even for him peculiarly calm, deliberate, and restrained.  It contained
some passages which will always live in our history, and will illustrate to the reader, more
effectively than a mass of statistics or political tracts might do, the nature and proportions
of the absurd anomalies which Russell was endeavoring to abolish.  It may be well to mention
the fact that it was this speech which, for the first time, introduced and adopted the word
"Reformer" as the title of the genuine Whig, and applied the term "Conservative," in no unfriendly
sense, to the Tory party.

[Sidenote: 1831--Lord John Russell's speech]

Lord John Russell opened his speech by a vindication of the representative principle as the
first condition of the English constitutional system.  He made it clear that in the early days
of our Parliaments this principle had been distinctly acknowledged, and, to a certain extent,
had been carried out in practice.  Then he showed how the principle had come to be less and
less recognized in the arrangement of our constituencies and the allotment of representatives,
until at last there had ceased to be any manner of proportion between representatives and population
or any practical acknowledgment of the main purpose for which representatives were to be selected.
Everything had tended, in the mean time, to make the owners of the soil also the owners and
masters of the representation.  Lord John Russell employed a series of illustrations, at once
simple and striking, to impress upon his audience a due understanding of the extraordinary
manner in which the whole principle of representation had been diverted.  {139} from its original
purpose.  He assumed the case of some inquiring and intelligent foreigner, a stranger to our
institutions but anxious to learn all about them, who had come to England for the purpose of
obtaining information on the spot.  The stranger has the nature and the purpose of our Parliamentary
system explained to him, and he is assured that it rests on the representative principle. 
He is told that the House of Commons is assembled for the purpose of enabling the sovereign
to collect the best advice that can be given to him as to the condition, the wants, and the
wishes of his subjects.

The House of Commons is to be in that sense representative; it is to be the interpreter to
the King of all that his people wish him to know. Then the stranger is naturally anxious to
learn how the constituencies are formed, by whose selection the representatives are sent to
Parliament, in order to render to the King a faithful message from his people.  The stranger
is taken to a grassy mound, let us say, in the midst of an expanse of silent, unpeopled fields,
and he is told that that grassy mound sends two members to the House of Commons.  He is shown
a stone wall with three niches in it, and he is informed that those three niches are privileged
to contribute two members to the representative assembly.  Lord John Russell described with
force and masterly humor a variety of such sights which were pointed out to the stranger, each
description being an accurate picture of some place which long since had lost all population,
but still continued to have the privilege of sending representatives to Parliament.  Then Lord
John Russell changed his form of illustration.  He took his stranger to some of the great manufacturing
and commercial cities and towns of England, and described the admiration and the wonder with
which the intelligent foreigner regarded these living evidences of the growth and the greatness
of the nation.  Here then, no doubt, the stranger begins at last to think that he can really
understand the practical value of the representative principle.  Thus far he has only been
bewildered by what he has seen and heard of the empty stretches of land which are {140} endowed
with a right to have representatives in the House of Commons, but now he begins to acknowledge
to himself that a people with such great manufacturing communities can send up to London representatives
enough from their own centres to constitute a Parliament capable of advising with any monarch.
Then, to his utter amazement, the distracted foreigner learns that these great cities and towns
have no right whatever to representation in the House of Commons, and have nothing whatever
to do with the election of members.

[Sidenote: 1831--The proposed reforms]

The imaginary foreigner who knew nothing about the principle of the workings of our Constitution
before his arrival in the country might well have been amazed and confounded, and might have
fancied, if he had been a reader of English literature, that he had lost his way somehow, and
instead of arriving in England had stumbled into the State of Laputa.  He might well indeed
be excused for such bewilderment, seeing that an English student of the present day finds it
hard to realize in his mind the possibility and the reality of the condition of things which
existed in this country within the lifetime of men still living. Lord John Russell then went
on to describe the manner in which the Government proposed to deal with the existing defects
of the whole Parliamentary system.  He laid it down as the main principle of the reforms he
was prepared to introduce that a free citizen should not be compelled to pay taxes in the imposition
and levying of which he was allowed to have no voice.  The vast majority of free citizens could
in any case only express their opinions as to this or that financial impost through their representatives
in the House of Commons.  This principle had of late been allowed to fail so grossly and so
widely in its application that the House of Commons had almost entirely ceased to represent
the will of the people.

Lord John Russell explained that the chief evils with which the Government had to deal were
three in number.  The first was the nomination of members of Parliament by individual patrons.
The second was the nomination of members by close corporations.  The third was the {141} enormous
expense of elections, which was principally caused by the open bribery and corruption which
had almost become a recognized accompaniment of every contest.  He proposed to deal with the
first evil by abolishing altogether the representation of the nominal constituencies, the constituencies
that had no resident inhabitant, the boroughs which at some distant time had had houses and
inmates, but of which now only the faintest traces were visible to the eye of the traveller--like,
for instance, the extinct communities of whose existence some faint memorial evidence might
be traced on Salisbury Plain.  The Census last taken, that of 1821, the Government had resolved
to accept as a basis of operations, and Lord John Russell proposed that every borough which,
at that date, had less than 3000 inhabitants should cease any longer to send a member to the
House of Commons.  All boroughs that had not more than 4000 inhabitants should send in future
only one member each to Parliament.  The principle of nomination by individuals or by corporations
was to come to an end. The "fancy franchises" were to be got rid of altogether.  In the boroughs
every householder paying rates on houses of the yearly value of ten pounds and upwards was
entitled to have a vote.

The Government, however, proposed to deal mercifully, so far as possible, with the existing
interests of voters, although the process of extinction was summary and complete with regard
to the so-called rights of patrons and of corporations.  For instance, resident voters, under
the old qualifications, were to be allowed to retain their right during their lives, but with
the lapse of each life the qualification expired and the owner of such a vote could have no
successor.  When dealing with the counties Lord John Russell announced that copyholders to
the value of ten pounds a year and leaseholders for not less than twenty-one years at an annual
rent of fifty pounds and upwards were to have the franchise.  The abolition of the small boroughs
and the uninhabited constituencies would reduce the number of members in the House of Commons
by 168, and Lord John Russell explained that the Government did not {142} propose to fill up
all these vacancies, being of opinion that the House was already rather overflowing in its
numbers and had a good deal too many members for the proper discharge of its business.

[Sidenote: 1831--The principles of the Reform Bill]

Some of the vacant seats were, however, to be assigned to the cities and towns which were then
actually unrepresented in the House of Commons.  Seven of these towns were to have two representatives
each, and twenty smaller but still goodly towns were to have one representative each.  Even
at this day it may still come as a matter of surprise to some readers to learn that the seven
towns which in 1831 were wholly unrepresented, and to which the Bill proposed to give two members
each, were Manchester, which was to include Salford; Birmingham, Leeds, Greenwich, Wolverhampton,
Sheffield, and Sunderland. The Government proposed to give eight additional members to the
metropolis itself--that is to say, two members each to the Tower Hamlets, Holborn, Finsbury,
and Lambeth.  The three Ridings of Yorkshire were to have two members each, and twenty-six
counties already represented, and in each of which there were more than 150,000 inhabitants,
were each to have two additional members.  It is not necessary to go more fully into the details
of the scheme which Lord John Russell expounded elaborately to the House of Commons.

In Ireland and in Scotland there were some slight differences as to the scale of the qualification
from those that were proposed for England; but in the three countries the principle was the
same, and the right to vote was associated with a certain occupation of land or payment of
household rating, and new constituencies were created where towns, unrepresented before, had
grown up into recognized importance.  By the changes that the Bill proposed to make no less
than half a million of new voters were to be created throughout Great Britain and Ireland.
For the purpose of diminishing the enormous expense of elections it was proposed that the poll
should be taken at the same time in separate districts, so that no voter should have to travel
more than fifteen miles in order to record his vote, and {143} that the time over which an
election contest could be spread should be greatly reduced, and reduced in proportion to the
size of the constituency.  It is as well to say at once that that part of the Reform Bill which
aimed at the due reduction of election expenses to their legitimate and necessary proportions
proved an utter failure.  No reduction in the amount of what may be called working expenses
could have diminished, to any satisfactory degree, the evil from which the country was suffering
at that time, and from which it continued to suffer for more than another generation.  Bribery
and corruption were the evils which had to be dealt with, and the Reform Bill of 1831 left
these evils as it had found them.  The Bill, however, did, in its other provisions, do much
to establish a genuine principle of Parliamentary representation.

To begin with, it proclaimed the principle of representation as the legal basis of the whole
Parliamentary system.  It abolished the nomination of members, whether by individual persons
or by corporations.  It laid down as law that representation must bear some proportion to the
numbers represented.  It made actual, or at least occasional, residence a qualification for
a voter.  These were the main principles of the measure.  The attention of readers will presently
be drawn to the manner in which the Bill failed to answer some of the demands made upon the
Government by the spreading intelligence of the country, and left these demands to be more
adequately answered by the statesmen of a later generation.  Enough to say that with all its
defects the Bill, as Lord John Russell explained it, was, for its time, a bold and broad measure
of reform, and that it laid down the lines along which, as far as human foresight can discern,
the movement of progress in England's political history will make its way.

{144}

CHAPTER LXXII.

THE GREAT DEBATE.

[Sidenote: 1831--Sir Robert Inglis and Reform]

The debate which followed Lord John Russell's motion for leave to bring in the Bill contained,
as well might be expected, some very remarkable speeches.  Three of these deserve the special
attention of the student of history.  The first illustrated the views of the extreme Tory of
that day, and is indeed a political curiosity which ought never to be consigned to utter oblivion.
This speech was made by Sir Robert Harry Inglis, who represented the University of Oxford.
Sir Robert Inglis was a living embodiment of the spirit of old-world Toryism as it had come
down to his day, Toryism which had in it little or nothing of the picturesque, half poetic
sentiment belonging to the earlier wearers of the rebel rose, the flower symbolic of the Stuart
dynasty.  Sir Robert Inglis was a man of education, of intelligence, and of high principle.
His sincerity was unquestioned, and his opinion would probably be well worth having on any
question which was not concerned with the antagonism between Whig and Tory.  Sir Robert argued
boldly in his speech that the principle of representation had never been recognized by the
Constitution as the Parliamentary system of England.  He insisted that the sovereign had a
perfect right to choose any representative he pleased from any constituency which it suited
him to create.  The King could delegate to any nobleman or gentleman his right of nominating
a representative.  Sir Robert scouted the idea that a large, prosperous, and populous town
had any better claim to be represented in the House of Commons than the smallest village in
the country.  It was all a matter for the sovereign, and if the sovereign thought fit he had
as good a right to invite any one he {145} pleased to represent an unpeopled plain as to represent
Manchester, Leeds, or Sheffield.  He denounced Russell's proposal to disfranchise the small
nomination boroughs, and he used an argument which was employed in the same debate and by much
wiser men than he in defence of the pocket boroughs and the whole system of nomination.  Some
of the most brilliant, gifted members of the House of Commons, he contended, had been sent
into that House by the patrons and owners of such boroughs, and otherwise never could have
got into Parliament at all, for they could not have borne the enormous expense of a county contest.

We have heard that argument over and over again in days much more recent.  It would, of course,
have been hard to dispose of it completely if it could be shown that there was no possible
way by which the expenses of elections could be reduced to a reasonable amount; if it could
be shown that there was any human system so bad as to have no compensating advantages whatever;
and finally if it could be shown that with the spread of education and the growth of popular
intelligence a man of great and commanding ability without money would not have a much better
chance of election at the hands of a large constituency than by the mere favor of some discerning
patron.  Sir Robert Inglis also used an argument which is even still not unfamiliar in political
debate, whether inside or outside Parliament.  He contended not merely that the English population
had no real grievances to complain of, but that none among the English population would have
fancied that they were suffering from grievances if it had not been for the evil advice and
turbulent agitation of mob orators.  To these wicked persons, the mob orators, Sir Robert ascribed
all the disturbances which were setting the country in commotion.  If only these mob orators
could be kept from spouting everything would go well and no subject of the sovereign would
ever get it into his head that he was suffering from the slightest grievance.

This is an argument which had just been used with regard to Catholic Emancipation; which was
afterwards to {146} be used with regard to free-trade and the introduction of the ballot and
household suffrage; and which will probably be used again and again so long as any sort of
reform is demanded.  Of course it need hardly be said that when Sir Robert Inglis referred
to mob orators he used the phrase as a term of contempt applying to all speakers who advocated
principles which were not the principles represented by the Tory aristocracy.  A Tory landlord
spouting any kind of nonsense to the most ignorant crowd would not have been, according to
this definition, a mob orator; he would have been a high-bred Englishman, instructing his humbler
brethren as to the way they ought to go.  Sir Robert also indulged in the most gloomy prophecies
about the evils which must come upon England as the direct result of the Reform Bill if that
Bill were to be passed into law.  The influence of rank and property would suddenly and completely
cease to prevail; education would lose its power to teach and to guide; the House of Commons
would no longer be the place for men of rank, culture, and statesmanship, but would be occupied
only by mob orators. Art after art would go out and all would be night, if we may adopt the
famous line of Pope's which Sir Robert somehow failed to introduce.

[Sidenote: 1831--Peel's speech on the Reform Bill]

The second speech in the debate to which we may refer was that of Sir Robert Peel.  It was
a necessity of Peel's position just then, and of the stage of political development which his
mind had reached, that he should oppose the Reform Bill.  But in the work of opposition he
had to undertake a task far more difficult to him in the artistic sense than the task which
the destinies had appointed for Sir Robert Inglis to attempt.  Inglis, although a man of ability
and education, as collegiate education then went, was so thorough a Tory of the old school
that the most extravagant arguments he used came as naturally and clearly to his mind as if
they had been dictated to him by inspiration.  But a man of Peel's high order of intellect,
a man who had been gifted by nature with the mind of a statesman, must sometimes have found
it hard indeed to convince himself that some of the arguments he used against reform {147}
were arguments which the history of the future would be likely to maintain.  Peel's genius,
however, was not one which readily adopted conclusions, especially when these conclusions involved
a change in the seeming order of things.  We have seen already that he was quite capable of
taking a bold decision and accepting its responsibilities when the movement of events seemed
to satisfy him that a choice one way or the other could no longer be postponed.

The whole story of his subsequent career bears evidence of the same effect.  His genius guided
him rightly when the fateful moment arrived at which a decision had to be made, but when left
to himself his inclinations always were to let things go on in their old way.  He had not yet
seen any necessity for a complete system of Parliamentary reform, nor was he likely, in any
case, to have approved of some of the proposals contained in the Bill brought in by Lord John
Russell.  The speech he delivered appears, by all the accounts which reach us, to have been
a genuine piece of Parliamentary eloquence.  Peel did not, as may well be imagined, commit
himself to some of the extravagances which were poured forth in absolute good faith by Sir
Robert Inglis.  But the very nature of his task compelled him sometimes to have recourse to
arguments which, although put forward with more discretion and more dexterity than Inglis had
shown, seemed nevertheless to belong to the same order of political reasoning.

It is not, perhaps, surprising that Peel should have found much to say for the existence of
the small nomination boroughs, seeing that the same arguments were made use of a whole generation
afterwards by no less a person than Mr. Gladstone.  These arguments, we need hardly say, were
founded on the familiar assumption that a Burke or a Sheridan, a Canning or a Plunket, would
have no chance whatever of getting into the House of Commons if some appreciative patron did
not generously put a borough at his disposal.  In our own days we have seen, again and again,
that a man of high political character and commanding eloquence, but having no money or other
such influence to back him, would have a far better chance at {148} the hands of a great popular
constituency than he would be likely to have in some small borough, where local interests might
easily be brought to conspire against him.  But at the time when Peel was making his speech
against the Reform project the patronage system still prevailed in politics, if no longer in
letters, and the unendowed child of genius would have little chance indeed if he were to try
to get into Parliament on his own mere merits.  On the whole, it must be owned that Sir Robert
Peel made as good a case against the Bill as could have been made from the Conservative point
of view, and it may be added that an equally ingenious case might have been made out by a man
of his capacity against any change whatever in any system.

[Sidenote: 1831--The second reading of the Reform Bill]

The third speech to which we think it necessary to refer was that delivered by the Irish orator
and agitator, Daniel O'Connell. O'Connell promised the Bill all the support in his power, but
he took care to explain that he supported it only because he believed it was the best Bill
he could obtain from any Government at that moment.  He described clearly and impressively
the faults which he found with Lord John Russell's measure; and it has to be noticed that the
objections which he raised were absolutely confirmed by our subsequent political history. 
He found fault with the Bill because it did not go nearly as far as such a measure ought to
go in the direction of manhood suffrage, or, at all events, of household suffrage.  He contended
that no Reform Bill could really fulfil the best purposes for which it was designed without
the adoption of the ballot system in the voting at popular elections.  He advocated shorter
Parliaments and much more comprehensive and strenuous legislation for the prevention of bribery
and corruption.  In short, O'Connell made a speech which might have been spoken with perfect
appropriateness by an English Radical of the highest political order at any time during some
succeeding generations. O'Connell's opinions seem to have been at that time, save on one political
question alone--the question of Repeal of the Union--exactly in accord with those of the Radical
party down to the days of Cobden and Bright.

{149}

It may be mentioned, as a matter of some historical interest, that, vindicating the true theory
of popular representation, he complained that successive English Governments had abandoned
the constitutional position taken up by the glorious Revolution of 1688.  Readers of the present
day may be inclined to think, not without good reason for the thought, that statesmanship in
the days of Lord Grey's first Reform Bill, and for many years after, might have had less trouble
with Ireland if it had taken better account of the opinions and the influence of O'Connell.

