There was genuine concern on the part of the Committee for the safety of the Library. In 1875
the building caught fire which was only put out by the efforts of members. Two days later the
Committee passed a motion stating that the time had come when the erection of a proper Library
building could no longer be delayed. Sir George Grey was asked to move the motion in the House.
This was passed and a Royal Commission set up to superintend the construction, £5,000 being
voted in the Estimates for the job, which it was thought would take two years and cost £14,000.

Nothing was done before the session of 1876 and the Committee set to work again. Several resolutions
concerning the Library, its location, and the calling of competitive designs were passed, but
though the Government proposed to put £7,000 on the estimates towards a Library, it was not
done. The resolutions seem to have confused rather than helped the situation.

The session of 1877 began with no further progress. To the Joint Committee's requests for information
the Minister of Public Works replied that no designs had been settled on and in any case competitive
designs would involve reconstruction of the whole block. More debate ensued and finally the
sum of £2,500 was placed on the Estimates and a second Royal Commission set up to superintend
the erection of the building. The money was not voted, however, and the Commission did not meet.

The Library now occupied three rooms, with a further office for the Librarian, but the growth
was continuous. Two more rooms were taken over from the Legislative Council in 1881 and temporarily
the Library could shelve all its books.

No success had rewarded the Committee's desire for new buildings in the seventies, but in 1882
it seemed that luck was in its way. £20,000 was placed on the Estimates for the partial reconstruction
of the buildings which were to include a new Bellamy's as well as a new Library. Only £10,000
was voted, however, and this was spent on Bellamy's. The new building had a bad effect on the
Library, cutting off the sun and making it damp, though the Committee had a consolation prize,
receiving the old Bellamy's for book storage.

So the matter dragged on. In 1886, on the initiative of the Premier, £5,000 was voted for a
new building, plans were prepared as quickly as possible and tenders called, but none was accepted
before the end of the financial year so the vote lapsed.

By now the Committee seems to have been almost reconciled to the fact that there was little
immediate chance of a Library being erected. Frequent requests were however made for something
to be done and the slightest possibility of a surplus in the Consolidated Fund always raised
hopes. Assurances were frequent that Cabinet was worried about the housing of the Library,
and whenever possible an extra room was given.

In 1885 the Library was located in six rooms, some remote. More were given later, though some
were taken away. In 1892 the Librarian reported that the building "simply cannot any longer
accommodate the books". But it was to be nearly 10 years before the new building was to be
ready for storing books.

The situation was indeed growing more and more desperate. Many books, particularly old novels
and duplicate periodicals, were given away to hospitals and libraries, and files of newspapers
were no longer preserved, while much of the Library stock could only be located with difficulty.
In 1897 the Library was spread all over the building with many of the rooms outside the control
of the Librarian. Books were stored in two Ministers' rooms, the ladies' tearoom, and two committee
rooms. A motion was brought up in 1896 to dispose of certain of the lesser used books, but
it was defeated and steps were taken to case the books and house them elsewhere.

Economic conditions were somewhat better in 1897, and to the Committee's joy, Cabinet showed
signs of approving the construction and plans were eventually sent to the Library Committee
for approval.

The Government had selected Mr Thomas Turnbull as architect and he was instructed to draw up
plans not only for a Library but also for committee rooms and an imposing entrance to the buildings
generally. On the last day of the session they were approved, but as the vote was for only
£7,000 the Library Committee drew a line across the plan and said the committee rooms were
not to be built.

Demolition of the old building was undertaken in February 1898 before tenders closed. When
they were opened, they were found to be so much in excess of the estimate that all were rejected
and it was decided to carry out the work under the cooperative system. The lowest tender for
ordinary construction was £42,000 and for fireproof £45,300; the others were considerably higher.

On 13 April 1898 the foundation stone was laid by the Premier, Mr Seddon, and when the session
began the walls were almost complete. Because of the noise it was decided that the work would
have to cease. All may have been quiet there, but it was very much otherwise in the House.
On the second day the Leader of the Opposition gave notice of a motion that the House regretted
that His Excellency's advisers without the necessary authority had greatly exceeded the specific
appropriation of £7,000, such action being a dangerous subversion of the House's control over
public expenditure. There was an acrid debate but the Government survived.

As a result of the attack, however, the Premier decided to abandon the idea of a three-storeyed
building and to limit expenditure to £25,000. The Library Committee initiated another debate
in which members tried to get the Government to reconsider its decision. It was unsuccessful
but during the debate some of those who had condemned the spending of more than £7,000 advised
the Government to keep to the original plans.

The architect was upset at the change and stated that the alterations had destroyed the symmetry
of the building so that it was no longer a monument to his ability. As a result his name was
removed from the foundation stone, and today the building, which was said to be the finest
example of Victorian Gothic in the country, does not bear the name of its designer.

The Library was completed in 1899, but took some time to dry out and it was not until early
1901 that it was occupied. It is a fine building, but has many defects from a library point
of view. The main reading room is probably one of the most beautiful rooms in the country,
but the high windows reduce considerably the book capacity as well as allowing too much bright
light on to the stock, and on to the readers.

                        THE EARLY LIBRARIANS

Ewen McColl, the first Librarian, died in 1881. It is hard at this time to evaluate his work,
indeed the Committee was very much in control and he was its instrument. It is probable, for
example, that the fine collection of newspapers of the time was due as much to the initiative
of the Committee as to the Librarian.

He was succeeded by Angus MacGregor, a Scot, who had been associated, it seems, with the Dunedin
Athenaeum and appears to have been a man with somewhat wider interests than his predecessor.
During his time the Library bound its large collection of pamphlets, many of which are now
of great value, and in addition absorbed the more worthwhile books from the Wellington Provincial
Library. He also began the accessioning and shelf marking of the books. The Library was beginning
to become an organised collection.

Mr MacGregor resigned in July 1885 and spent his later years as a teacher. He was succeeded
by Mr James Collier, another Scot and a graduate of St. Andrews and Edinburgh. He came to New
Zealand in 1882 and had previously been an assistant to Herbert Spencer and was compiler of
the first and last volumes of the Descriptive Sociology.

He early realised that there was little likelihood of a new library building, but his reports
show that he grasped the essential aims of a library, and particularly a legislative library.
His reports deplored the lack of copyright deposit in New Zealand, while he did much to make
the resources of the Library available to students.

One of his main tasks was to build up the collection relating to New Zealand in the Library.
This has always been essential material and in his day the Library began to fill the gaps,
a task which is not yet completed. Collier's interest was great and he compiled the first New
Zealand bibliography, published by the Government Printer in 1889.

His health was not good and after sick leave in 1889 he resigned in 1890. A few years later
he went to Australia and until his death in 1925 was engaged in writing, being the author of
a life of Sir George Grey and of The Pastoral Age in Australia.

The Library Committee advertised the vacancy and recommended the appointment of the Hon. J.
W. Fortescue, then Governor's Secretary. The choice did not seem popular and there was some
argument in the House whether or not it was legal to appoint an officer when the salary had
not been voted. As a result the application was withdrawn. Though this may have been a bad
thing for the Library, it was a good one for other reasons. Today Sir John Fortescue is known
as the author of the monumental History of the British Army as well as other books, and for
having been the Royal Librarian at Windsor.

The Committee then appointed Mr H. L. James, B.A., Acting Librarian. Mr James had joined the
staff in 1889 and continued as a member until 1923. He was a born librarian, hampered by devotion
to detail and the desire to do the almost impossible. Generally whatever he did was sound and
has stood the test of time. For 10 years until January 1901 he was in charge. Though two attempts
were made to appoint him Librarian, and one (in 1891) to appoint the Serjeant-at-Arms, Colonel
De Quincey, Librarian, it was not until 1900, when the new building was almost completed, that
the necessity for further staff made some additional appointments necessary and a Chief Librarian
was appointed.

Mr James' main monument is the Library Catalogue. The first catalogue had been printed in 1862
in London, and it lists a good working collection for Parliament. Other editions appeared in
1872, 1875, 1880, and 1884, each having one or more supplements.

However useful they were from the members' point of view, they were not the best examples of
the cataloguer's art. In 1890 the Committee authorised a new edition and the supervision was
entrusted to Mr James, the work of compilation being done by Mr B. E. Stocker, M.A. The manuscript
was completed in May 1894, but the cost of printing was so great that the length of the entries
had to be cut again and again. The first volume was issued in 1895 and the second in 1897.

Unfortunately the catalogue does not give the Dewey Class number for the books. This system
was adopted in April 1898 and has provided a more systematic arrangement of the books.

