At the Dissolution the lands of Tavistock Abbey were given by King Henry VIII, along with others,
to Lord John Russell, whose descendants, the Dukes of Bedford, still possess them. Considerable
traces of the old abbey remained, but, judging from some old prints, they had been much altered
during the past century. The fine old chapter-house had been taken down to build a residence
named Abbey House, which now formed the Bedford Hotel; the old refectory had been used as a
Unitarian chapel, and its porch attached to the premises of the hotel; while the vicarage garden
seemed to have absorbed some portion of the venerable ruins. There were two towers, one of
which was named the Betsey Grinbal's Tower, as a woman of that name was supposed to have been
murdered there by the monks; and between that and the other tower was an archway which connected
the two. Under this archway stood a Sarcophagus which formerly contained the remains of Ordulph,
whose gigantic thigh-bones we afterwards saw in the church. The ruins were nearly all covered
with ivy, and looked beautiful even in their decay; but seeing the purpose to which some of
them had been applied, we thought that the word "Ichabod" (the glory hath departed) would aptly
apply, and if the old walls could have spoken, we should not have been surprised to hear a
line quoted from Shakespeare--"to what base uses do we come at last."

The old abbey had done good service in its time, as it had given Tavistock the claim of being
the second town in England where a printing press was erected, for in 1524 one had been put
up in the abbey, and a monk named Rychard had printed a translation of Boethius' De Consolatione
Philosophiæ, and a Saxon Grammar was also said to have been printed there.

Fitzford was the name of one of the river suburbs of Tavistock, and was once upon a time the
residence of the Fitze family. According to some ancient histories of Devon, one of which had
the significant title of The Bloudie Book, Sir John Fitze was noted as a turbulent, dangerous
man, ever ready with his sword on all occasions. Meeting with many of his neighbours at a noontide
dinner at Tavistock, he was vaunting his free tenure and boasting that he did not hold a foot
of land from any but the "Queene of England," when his neighbour, "Maister Slanning," reminded
him of a small piece of land he had of his for which he was liable for rent, but for which
no payment had been asked by reason of "courtesie and friendshippe." Upon hearing these words
Fitze flew in a furious rage and told Slanning with a great oath that he lied,

   and withal gave fuel to his rage and reines of spight in the
   unjustness of his anger--offering to stab him. But Maister Slanning,
   who was known to be a man of no less courage, and more courtesie,
   with a great knife that he had, warded the hazard of such
   threatenings.

The quarrel was stopped by the intervention of friends, and Slanning, thinking the matter was
at an end, shortly afterwards rode home in company with only one servant.

   Long had they not ridden but commanding the man to walk down his
   horses in the way, himself the while taking the greene fields for his
   more contented walking; he might behold Sir John Fitze, with four
   more, galloping amane after him, which sight could not but be a great
   amazement to Maister Slanning.

The quarrel was renewed, and Slanning, who was, by the way, a brave man, perceived that Fitze
was determined to kill him; but he had no chance against live swords, and when he got to Fitzford
gateway he received a blow from behind which staggered him, and Fitze, seizing the opportunity,
ran his sword through his body, and poor Slanning fell to the floor a murdered man.

