It is the style of the book, however, to which one must revert with admiration, not unmingled
with criticism, and, it may be, a trifle of just indignation. There are not ten living writers
in America of whom it can be said that their style is in itself a charm,--that it has the range,
the flexibility, the delicacy, the ease, the strength, which constitute permanent power,--that
it is so saturated with life, with literary allusion, with the symbolism of Nature, as to make
us dwell on the mere sentences with delight, apart from all thought of argument or theme. This
it is to be a literary artist; and as Miss Prescott may justly claim to rank among these favored
ones, she must be tried by the code which befits her station. There is not, perhaps, another
individual among us who could have written the delicious descriptions of external Nature which
this book contains,--not one of the multitude of young artists, now devoting their happy hours
to flower-painting, who can depict color by color as she depicts it by words. We hold in our
hands an illuminated missal, some Gospel of Nature according to June or October, as the case
may be. The price she pays for this astonishing gift is to be often overmastered by it, to
be often betrayed into exuberant and fantastic phrases, and wanderings into the realm of words
unborn. One fancies the dismay of the accomplished corrector of the University Press, as his
indignant pencil hung over "incanting" and "reverizing" and "cose." Yet closer examination
always shows that she, too, has studied grammar and dictionary, algebra and the Greek alphabet;
and her most daring verbal feats are never vague or wayward, for there is always an eager and
accurate brain behind them. She dares too much to escape blunders, yet, after all, commits
fewer in proportion than those who dare less. The basis of all good writing is truth in details;
and her lavish wealth of description would be a gaudy profanation, were it not based on a fidelity
of observation which is Thoreau-like, so far as it goes. "Sabbatia sprays, those rosy ghosts
that haunt the Plymouth ponds,"--"the cardinal, with the very glitter of the stream it loves
meshed like a silver mist behind its scarlet sheen,"--"the wide rhodora marshes, where some
fleece of burning mist seemed to be fallen and caught and tangled in countless filaments upon
the bare twigs,"--such traits as these are not to be found in the newspapers nor in the botanies.
With all her seeming lavishness, she rarely wastes a word. Though she may sometimes heap upon
a frail hepatica some greater accumulation of fine-spun fancies than its slender head will
bear, she yet can so characterize a flower with a touch that any one of its lovers would know
it without the name. If she hints at "those slipshod little anemones that cannot stop to count
their petals, but take one from their neighbor or leave another behind them," it is because
she knows how peculiarly this fantastic variableness belongs to the rue-leaved species, so
unlike the staid precision of its cousin, the wind-flower, from which not one pedestrian in
a hundred can yet distinguish it. If she simply says, "great armfuls of blue lupines," she
has said enough, because this is almost the only wild-flower whose size, shape, and abundance
naturally tempt one to gather it thus: imagine her speaking of armfuls of violets or wild roses!
From this basis of accurate fact her fancy can safely unfold its utmost wings, as in her fancied
illustrations for the Garden-Song in "Maud," or in the wonderful descriptions of Azarian's
lonely nights on the water. "He leaned over his boat-side, miles away from any shore, a star
looked down from far above, a star looked up from far below, the glint passed as instantly,
and left him the sole spirit between immense concaves of void and fulness, shut in like the
flaw in a diamond." How the subscribers to the Circulating Library of the enterprising Mr.
Loring must catch their breaths in amazement, when that courteous gentleman hands them for
the last new novel--sandwiched between "Pique" and "Woodburn"--thoughts of such a compass as that!

There are sometimes fictitious writers who sweep across the land in a great wave of popularity
and then pass away,--as Frederika Bremer twenty years ago,--and leave no visible impression
behind. But Harriet Prescott's fame rests on a foundation of sure superiorities, so far as
she possesses it; and no one has impaired or can impair it, except herself. If it has not grown
as was at first anticipated, it has been her own doing, and "Azarian" has come none too soon
to give a better augury for the future. There is no literary laurel too high for her to grasp,
if her own will, and favoring circumstances, shall enable her to choose only noble and innocent
themes, and to use canvas firm and pure enough for the rare colors she employs.

"Book, Sir, book! It's the title!" This is the reputed saying of Longman, the publisher, when
asked for the key to bookselling. It is a pity that Mr. Owen's book has so cumbrous a name
to carry; for everything else about it is compact and portable. Few American works on statistics
or political economy possess either brevity or an index, and this combines both treasures.
"In this small volume, which a busy man may read in a few hours," the author condenses an immense
deal,--and it is a blessed sign, if a man who has been in Congress can still be so economical
of words. If his brother Congressmen would only imitate his precious example, what a blessed
hope! How gladly would one subscribe for the "Congressional Globe," with the assurance that
it would henceforth be the only tedious book in his library, that all the chaff would hereafter
be safely winnowed into that, and all the sense put into comfortable little duo-decimos like this!

Mr. Owen's opportunities, as Chairman of the American Freedmen's Commission, have been very
great, and he has used them well. The history of slavery and the slave-trade,--the practical
consequences of both,--the constitutionality of emancipation,--the present condition of the
freed slaves, and their probable future,--all this ground is comprehended within two hundred
and fifty pages. The points last named have, of course, the most immediate value, and his treatment
of these is exceedingly manly and sensible. He shows conclusively that the whole demeanor of
the freed slaves has done them infinite credit, and that the key to their successful management
is simply to treat them with justice. That this justice includes equal rights of citizenship
he fully asserts, and states the gist of the matter in one of the most telling paragraphs of
the book. "God, who made the liberation of the negro the condition under which alone we could
succeed in this war, has now, in His providence, brought about a position of things under which
it would seem that a full recognition of that negro's rights as a citizen becomes indispensable
to stability of government in peace." For, as Mr. Owen shows, even if under any other circumstances
we might excuse ourselves for delaying the recognition of the freedman's right to suffrage,
because of his ignorance and inexperience, yet it would be utterly disastrous to do so now,
when two-thirds of the white population will remain disloyal, even when conquered. We cannot
safely reorganize a republican government on the basis of one-sixth of its population, and
shall be absolutely compelled to avail ourselves of that additional three-sixths which is loyal
and black. Fortunately, as a matter of fact, there are no obstacles to the citizenship of the
Southern negro greater than those in the way of the average foreign immigrant. The emancipated
negro is at least as industrious and thrifty as the Celt, takes more pride in self-support,
is far more eager for education, and has fewer vices. It is impossible to name any standard
of requisites for the full rights of citizenship which will give a vote to the Celt and exclude
the negro.

Much as has been written on this point, Mr. Owen has yet some astonishing facts to contribute.
He shows, for instance, by the official statements, that, amidst the great distress produced
in the city of St. Louis at the beginning of the war, by the gathering of white and black refugees
from all parts of the State, when ten thousand persons received public aid, only two out of
that whole vast number were of negro blood. These two were all who applied, one being lame,
the other bedridden, and both women. He shows, upon similar authority, that the free colored
people of Louisiana, under serious civil disabilities, are, on the average, richer, by seven
and a half per cent., than the people of the Northern States. Their average wealth in 1860
was five hundred and twenty dollars, while the average wealth in the loyal Free States is only
four hundred and eighty-four dollars. Such facts show how utterly gratuitous is the frequent
assumption that the emancipated slave does not sufficiently know the value of a dollar.

Upon some disputed points Mr. Owen does not, perhaps, make his facts quite cover his inferences,
as, for instance, on the vexed question of the vigor and vitality of the mulatto, upon which
the more extended observations of the last three years have as yet shed little light. It is
the same with the whole obscure problem of amalgamation; indeed, he slips into an absolute
contradiction, in pronouncing judgment rather too hastily here. "I believe," he says, "that
the effect of general emancipation will be to discourage amalgamation. It is rare in Canada."
(p. 219.) But, however it may be in Canada, he has already admitted, four pages before, that
"the proportion of mulattoes among the free colored is much greater than among the slaves,"
which is, doubt less, true, except, perhaps, in a few large cities of the South. It is a subject
of common remark that the Southern colored regiments are generally of far darker complexion
than those recruited at the North, and this is inexplicable except on the supposition that
freedom, even more than slavery, tends thus far to amalgamation. What further step in reasoning
this suggests, it is, fortunately, not needful to inquire; like all other mysteries of human
destiny, this will safely work itself out. It is not for nothing that the black man thrives
in contact with the white, while the red man dies; and there certainly are practical anxieties
enough to last us for a month or two, without borrowing any from the remoter future.

Enoch Arden, etc. By ALFRED TENNYSON, D.C.L., Poet-Laureate. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

In his new volume Tennyson has thrown out some verses, graceful, defiant, triumphant, and yet
a little touched with sadness, in which he assails the thieves who have stolen his seed of
poetry, and made the flower so common that the people call it--as, indeed, they did when first
it blossomed--a weed. It may be for the reason here indicated that he has chosen for his later
poems a form--that of the Idyl--the versification, construction, and use of which he has made
his own by a delicate and yet indisputable stamp of sovereignty: whatever may be the reason,
let us be thankful for the choice. He has worked in no field of whose resources he was more
completely master, or which has yielded him more full and varied development of his rare genius.
The work of his riper years, with the results of his fidelity in discipline, his generous culture,
his catholic and earnest intercourse with men, and his clear and thoughtful observation lying
ready for his use, he has crowned the green glory of his past with a chaplet that will grow
more sure of permanence with the scrutiny of every succeeding year. In his "Idyls of the King"
we recognized the best moral qualities of many of his previous works; and in "Enoch Arden,"
which gives the title to his last volume, he has turned the full light of his perfected genius
on the simple scenes of domestic joy and sorrow.

We have always deemed it one of the greatest of Tennyson's great and good qualities, that he
is unfaltering in the tribute of honor which he pays to the sterling virtues and to the beauty
and heroism which he rejoices to point us to in the daily walk of the humblest life. A blameless
character, pure desire, manly ambition, a fervent faith, and a strong will, resting on the
firm innermost foundation of a Christian spirit, are as real to him in the fisherman as in
the peerless prince. The temptations, the strength, and the temper of the hero are so common
to both, and so clearly brought out in each, that we feel the Man in the Prince, and the high
aim of the Prince in the true Man.

Our poet never strays from Nature; which has for him two sides,--the old duality, which is
also forever,--the real and the ideal. To the one he brings the most patient fidelity of study;
the other he reflects in every part of his poems in glowing imagery. "Enoch Arden" contains
scenes which a Pre-Raphaelite might draw from,--as that "cup-like hollow in the down" which
held the hazel-wood, with the children nutting through its reluctant boughs, or the fireside
of Philip, on which Enoch looked and was desolate. On the other hand, no poet has so planted
our literature with gorgeous gardens from which generations of lesser laborers will be enriched
and prospered. The figures in which Tennyson uses Nature are not, moreover, strained or artificial;
they do not distort or cover the inner meaning, but bloom from it, revealing its beauty and
its sweetness. All bear the mark of loving thought,--now so delicate that its very faintness
thrills and holds us, now strong and spirited and solemn.

In this latest poem we find also the old surpassing skill of language, a skill dependent on
the faculty of penetrating to the inmost significance both of words and of things, so that
there is no waste, and so that single words in single sentences stamp on the brain the substance
of long experiences. Witness this: Enoch lies sick, distant from home and wife and children;
here is one word crowded with pathos, telling of the weary loss of livelihood, the burden slowly
growing more intolerably irksome to the bold and careful worker wrestling with pain, and to
the fragile mother of the new-born babe:--

    "Another hand crept, too, across his trade,
    Taking her bread and theirs."

See, again, how one line woven in the context shows where the tears came. Enoch, wrecked, solitary,
almost hopeless, found that

    "A phantom made of many phantoms moved
    Before him, haunting him,--or he himself
    Moved, haunting people, things, and places known
    Far in a darker isle beyond the line:
    The babes, their babble, Annie, the small house,
    The climbing street, the mill, the leafy lanes,
    The peacock-yewtree and the lonely Hall,
    The horse he drove, the boat he sold, the chill
    November dawns and dewy glooming of the downs,
    The gentle shower, the smell of dying leaves,
    And the low moan of leaden-colored seas."

We know of no more perfect rendering of an unlearned and trustful faith in God than this which
Tennyson puts in the mouth of Enoch as he departs on the voyage from which he never returns
to his wife:--

      "If you fear,
    Cast all your fears on God: that anchor holds.
    Is He not yonder in those uttermost
    Parts of the morning? if I flee to these,
    Can I go from Him? And the sea is His,
    The sea is His: He made it."

In the repetition in the last line one can almost hear the sob welling up from the heart of
the strong sailor, as he speaks of God to one beloved, in time of trial,--the feeling of bitterness
in parting starting with the impulse of the stronger faith.

In "Enoch Arden," as in "In Memoriam," Tennyson shows the sweet and sure sympathy which informs
him of all the ways of grief. In its sacred experiences, where the slightest variance from
the simplicity of actual feeling would jostle all, he holds his way unquestioned.

It is a test, unembarrassed and complete, of genius, this treatment of grief, the emotion which
least of all brooks exaggeration or sentimentalism. It is the test of human purity, too, and
the hand must be very tender and very clean which leaves thus exact and clear the picture of
the crowning phase of human life. If "In Memoriam" has appropriated to itself, by its sublime
supremacy, a phrase which, though in daily use, is never heard without suggesting the poem,
Tennyson shows in "Enoch Arden" that he understands the sad and perfect reign of grief in the
life of the sailor and of the sailor's wife struck with a great sorrow for the loss of the
latest born, as well as in the broad and varied range of his own cultured nature.

And so we close the poem, which touches us again more than we deemed possible, till each renewal
of the reading stirs again the depths of passionate sympathy. A pure manhood among the poets,
a heart simple as the simplest, an imperial fancy, whose lofty supremacy none can question,
a high faith, and a spirit possessed with the sublimest and most universal of Christ's truths,
a tender and strong humanity, not bounded by a vague and misty sentiment, but pervading life
in all its forms, and with these great skill and patience and beauty in expression,--these
are the riper qualities to which "Enoch Arden" testifies. They are qualities whose attainment
and retention are singularly rare, and whose value we cannot easily overrate.

And thus much having been said of "Enoch Arden," we find no space for consideration of the
other poems contained in the new volume. "Aylmer's Field" is in some respects, perhaps, more
remarkable than the poem which precedes it, since the poet never loses sight of England, in
its course, nor the old familiar scenes, but tugs at the fetid roots of shallow aristocracy
with the relentless clutch of one of God's noblemen laboring for the right.

Shut in these few pages we find the substance of a three-volume novel; and while the mind sways
slowly to the music of its "sculptured lines," the lives of men move on from birth to death,
leaving their meaning stamped in rhythmic beauty on our heart and brain.

Nor must we forget, while contemplating the two principal poems in the volume,--finished heroic
lessons of the poet's mature life,--the songs, singing themselves like summer ripples on the
strand, which are their melodious companions. Among them we dare to mention "In the Valley
of Cauteretz,"--

    "Sweeter thy voice, though every sound is sweet."

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Madame Récamier, with a Sketch of the History of Society in France. By Madame M----. London.
1862.

[B] Causeries de Lundi.

[C] Coppet et Weimar: Madame de Staël et la Grande Duchesse Louise.

[D] Madame de Châteaubriand.

[E] This term designated a larger class of young men than that to which it is now confined.
It took in the articled clerks of merchants and bankers, the George Barnwells of the day.

