Richard Milnes had a Letter from you, one morning lately, when I met him at old Rogers's. 
He is brisk as ever;  his kindly Dilettantism looking sometimes as if it would grow a sort
of Earnest by and by.  He has a new volume of Poems out:  I advised him to try Prose;  he admitted
that Poetry would not be generally read again in these ages,--but pleaded, "It was so convenient
for veiling commonplace!"  The honest little heart!--We did not know what to make of the bright
Miss --- here;  she fell in love with my wife;--the contrary, I doubt, with me:  my hard realism
jarred upon her beautiful rose-pink dreams.  Is not all that very morbid,--unworthy the children
of Odin, not to speak of Luther, Knox, and the other Brave?  I can do nothing with vapors,
but wish them condensed.  Kennet had a copy of the English Miscellanies for you a good many
weeks ago:  indeed, it was just a day or two before your advice to try Green henceforth. Has
the Meister ever arrived?  I received a Controversial Volume from Mr. Ripley:  pray thank him
very kindly.  Somebody borrowed the Book from me;  I have not yet read it.  I did read a Pamphlet
which seems now to have been made part of it.  Norton* surely is a chimera;  but what has the
whole business they are jarring about become?  As healthy worshiping Paganism is to Seneca
and Company, so is healthy worshiping Christianity to--I had rather not work the sum!--Send
me some swift news of yourself, dear Emerson.  We salute you and yours, in all heartiness of
brotherhood.

Yours ever and always--
                  T. Carlyle

--------- * Professor Andrews Norton.  The controversy was that occasioned by Professor Norton's
Discourse on "The Latest Form of Infidelity." ---------

LVI. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 30 August, 1840

My Dear Carlyle,--I fear, nay I know, that when I wrote last to you, about the 1st of July,
I promised to follow my sheet immediately with a bookseller's account.  The bookseller did
presently after render his account, but on its face appeared the fact--which with many and
by me unanswerable reasons they supported--that the balance thereon credited to you was not
payable until the 1st of October.  The account is footed "Net sales of French Revolution to
1 July, 1840, due October 1, $249.77."  Let us hope then that we shall get, not only a new
page of statement, but also some small payment in money a month hence.  Having no better story
to tell, I told nothing.

But I will not let the second of the Cunard boats leave Boston without a word to you.  Since
I wrote by Calvert came your letter describing your lectures and their success:  very welcome
news, for a good London newspaper, which I consulted, promised reports, but gave none.  I have
heard so oft of your projected trip to America, that my ear would now be dull, and my faith
cold, but that I wish it so much.  My friend, your audience still waits for you here willing
and eager, and greatly larger no doubt than it would have been when the matter was first debated.
But they would hardly be able to fasten on so huge a man as you are any party badge.  We must
all hear you for ourselves. But beside my own hunger to see and know you, and to hear you speak
at ease and at large under my own roof, I have a growing desire to present you to three or
four friends, and them to you. Almost all my life has been passed alone.  Within three or four
years I have been drawing nearer to a few men and women whose love gives me in these days more
happiness than I can write of. How gladly I would bring your Jovial light upon this friendly
constellation, and make you too know my distant riches!  We have our own problems to solve
also, and a good deal of movement and tendency emerging into sight every day in church and
state, in social modes and in letters.  I sometimes fancy our cipher is larger and easier to
read than that of your English society.

You will naturally ask me if I try my hand at the history of all this,--I who have leisure,
and write.  No, not in the near and practical way in which they seem to invite.  I incline
to write philosophy, poetry, possibility,--anything but history.  And yet this phantom of the
next age limns himself sometimes so large and plain that every feature is apprehensible, and
challenges a painter.  I can brag little of my diligence or achievement this summer.  But next
winter I think to omit lectures, and write more faithfully.  Hope for me that I shall get a
book ready to send you by New-Year's-day.

Sumner came to see me the other day.  I was glad to learn all the little that he knew of you
and yours.  I do not wonder you set so lightly by my talkative countryman.  He has brought
nothing home but names, dates, and prefaces.  At Cambridge last week I saw Brown for the first
time.  I had little opportunity to learn what he knew.  Mr. Hume has never yet shown his face
here.  He sent me his Poems from New York, and then went South, and I know no more of him.

My Mother and Wife send you kind regards and best wishes,--to you and all your house.  Tell
your wife that I hate to hear that she cannot sail the seas.  Perhaps now she is stronger she
will be a better sailor.  For the sake of America will she not try the trip to Leith again?
It is only twelve days from Liverpool to Boston. Love, truth, and power abide with you always!

                                --R.W.E.

LVII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 26 September, 1840

My Dear Emerson,--Two Letters of yours are here, the latest of them for above a week:  I am
a great sinner not to have answered sooner.  My way of life has been a thing of petty confusions,
uncertainties;  I did not till a short while ago see any definite highway, through the multitude
of byelanes that opened out on me, even for the next few months.  Partly I was busy;  partly
too, as my wont is, I was half asleep:--perhaps you do not know the combination of these two
predicables in one and the same unfortunate human subject!  Seeing my course now for a little,
I must speak.

According to your prognosis, it becomes at length manifest that I do not go to America for
the present.  Alas, no!  It was but a dream of the fancy;  projected, like the French shoemaker's
fairy shoes, "in a moment of enthusiasm."  The nervous flutter of May Lecturing has subsided
into stagnancy;  into the feeling that, of all things in the world, public speaking is the
hatefulest for me;  that I ought devoutly to thank Heaven there is no absolute compulsion laid
on me at present to speak!  My notion in general was but an absurd one:  I fancied I might
go across the sea, open my lips wide;  go raging and lecturing over the Union like a very lion
(too like a frothy mountebank) for several months;--till I had gained, say a thousand pounds;
therewith to retire to some small, quiet cottage by the shore of the sea, at least three hundred
miles from this, and sit silent there for ten years to come, or forever and a day perhaps!
That was my poor little day dream;--incapable of being realized.  It appears, I have to stay
here, in this brick Babylon;  tugging at my chains, which will not break for me:  the less
I tug, the better.  Ah me!  On the whole, I have written down my last course of lectures, and
shall probably print them;  and you, with the aid of proof-sheets, may again print them;  that
will be the easiest way of lecturing to America!  It is truly very weak to speak about that
matter so often and long, that matter of coming to you;  and never to come. Frey ist das Herz,
as Goethe says, doch ist der Fuss gebunden.  After innumerable projects, and invitations towards
all the four winds, for this summer, I have ended about a week ago by--simply going nowhither,
not even to see my dear aged Mother, but sitting still here under the Autumn sky such as I
have it;  in these vacant streets I am lonelier than elsewhere, have more chance for composure
than elsewhere!  With Sterne's starling I repeat to myself, "I can't get out."--Well, hang
it, stay in then;  and let people alone of it!

I have parted with my horse;  after an experiment of seven or eight months, most assiduously
prosecuted, I came to the conclusion that, though it did me some good, there was not enough
of good to warrant such equestrianism:  so I plunged out, into green England, in the end of
July, for a whole week of riding, an explosion of riding, therewith to end the business, and
send off my poor quadruped for sale.  I rode over Surrey,-- with a leather valise behind me
and a mackintosh before;  very singular to see:  over Sussex, down to Pevensey where the Norman
Bastard landed;  I saw Julius Hare (whose Guesses at Truth you perhaps know), saw Saint Dunstan's
stithy and hammer, at Mayfield, and the very tongs with which he took the Devil by the nose;--finally
I got home again, a right wearied man;  sent my horse off to be sold, as I say;  and finished
the writing of my Lectures on Heroes.  This is all the rustication I have had, or am like to
have.  I am now over head and ears in Cromwellian Books;  studying, for perhaps the fourth
time in my life, to see if it be possible to get any credible face-to-face acquaintance with
our English Puritan period;  or whether it must be left forever a mere hearsay and echo to
one.  Books equal in dulness were at no epoch of the world penned by unassisted man. Nevertheless,
courage!  I have got, within the last twelve months, actually, as it were, to see that this
Cromwell was one of the greatest souls ever born of the English kin;  a great amorphous semi-articulate
Baresark;  very interesting to me.  I grope in the dark vacuity of Baxters, Neales;  thankful
for here a glimpse and there a glimpse.  This is to be my reading for some time.

The Dial No. 1 came duly:  of course I read it with interest; it is an utterance of what is
purest, youngest in your land; pure, ethereal, as the voices of the Morning!  And yet--you
know me--for me it is too ethereal, speculative, theoretic: all theory becomes more and more
confessedly inadequate, untrue, unsatisfactory, almost a kind of mockery to me!  I will have
all things condense themselves, take shape and body, if they are to have my sympathy.  I have
a body myself;  in the brown leaf, sport of the Autumn winds, I find what mocks all prophesyings,
even Hebrew ones,--Royal Societies, and Scientific Associations eating venison at Glasgow,
not once reckoned in!  Nevertheless go on with this, my Brothers.  The world has many most
strange utterances of a prophetic nature in it at the present time;  and this surely is worth
listening to among the rest.  Do you know English Puseyism?  Good Heavens! in the whole circle
of History is there the parallel of that,--a true worship rising at this hour of the day for
Bands and the Shovel-hat?  Distraction surely, incipience of the "final deliration" enters
upon the poor old English Formulism that has called itself for some two centuries a Church.
No likelier symptom of its being soon about to leave the world has come to light in my time.
As if King Macready should quit Covent-Garden, go down to St. Stephen's, and insist on saying,
Le roi le veut!--I read last night the wonderfulest article to that effect, in the shape of
a criticism on myself, in the Quarterly Review.  It seems to be by one Sewell, an Oxford doctor
of note, one of the chief men among the Pusey-and-Newman Corporation.  A good man, and with
good notions, whom I have noted for some years back.  He finds me a very worthy fellow;  "true,
most true,"--except where I part from Puseyism, and reckon the shovel-hat to be an old bit
of felt;  then I am false, most false.  As the Turks say, Allah akbar!

I forget altogether what I said of Landor;  but I hope I did not put him in the Heraud category:
a cockney windbag is one thing; a scholar and bred man, though incontinent, explosive, half-true,
is another.  He has not been in town, this year;  Milnes describes him as eating greatly at
Bath, and perhaps even cooking!  Milnes did get your Letter:  I told you?  Sterling has the
Concord landscape;  mine is to go upon the wall here, and remind me of many things.  Sterling
is busy writing;  he is to make Falmouth do, this winter, and try to dispense with Italy. He
cannot away with my doctrine of Silence;  the good John.  My Wife has been better than usual
all summer;  she begins to shiver again as winter draws nigh.  Adieu, dear Emerson.  Good be
with you and yours.  I must be far gone when I cease to love you. "The stars are above us,
the graves are under us."  Adieu.

                                     --T. Carlyle

LVIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 30 October, 1840

My Dear Friend,--My hope is that you may live until this creeping bookseller's balance shall
incline at last to your side.  My rude ciphering, based on the last account of this kind which
I sent you in April from J. Munroe & Co., had convinced me that I was to be in debt to you
at this time L40 or more;  so that I actually bought L40 the day before the "Caledonia" sailed
to send you; but on giving my new accounts to J.M. & Co., to bring the statement up to this
time, they astonished me with the above written result.  I professed absolute incredulity,
but Nichols* labored to show me the rise and progress of all my blunders. Please to send the
account with the last to your Fraser, and have it sifted.  That I paid, a few weeks since,
$481.34, and again, $28.12, for printing and paper respectively, is true.--C.C. Little & Co.
acknowledge the sale of 82 more copies of the London Edition French Revolution since the 187
copies of July 1;  but these they do not get paid for until January 1, and we it seems must
wait as long.  We will see if the New-Year's-day will bring us more pence.

--------- * Partner in the firm of J. Munroe & Co. ---------

I received by the "Acadia" a letter from you, which I acknowledge now, lest I should not answer
it more at large on another sheet, which I think to do.  If you do not despair of American
booksellers send the new proofs of the Lectures when they are in type to me by John Green,
121 Newgate Street (I believe), to the care of J. Munroe & Co.  He sends a box to Munroe by
every steamer.  I sent a Dial, No. 2, for you, to Green.  Kennet, I hear, has failed.  I hope
he did not give his creditors my Miscellanies, which you told me were there.  I shall be glad
if you will draw Cromwell, though if I should choose it would be Carlyle.  You will not feel
that you have done your work until those devouring eyes and that portraying hand have achieved
England in the Nineteenth Century.  Perhaps you cannot do it until you have made your American
visit.  I assure you the view of Britain is excellent from New England.

----------- * Preliminary to the experiment of Brook Farm, in 1841. -----------

I am ashamed to tell you, though it seems most due, anything of my own studies, they seem so
desultory, idle, and unproductive. I still hope to print a book of essays this winter, but
it cannot be very large.  I write myself into letters, the last few months, to three or four
dear and beautiful persons, my country-men and women here.  I lit my candle at both ends, but
will now be colder and scholastic.  I mean to write no lectures this winter.  I hear gladly
of your wife's better health;  and a letter of Jane Tuckerman's, which I saw, gave the happiest
tidings of her.  We do not despair of seeing her yet in Concord, since it is now but twelve
and a half days to you.

