"

I sighed. Then, without any regard for the conclusions of my fellow-passengers, I silently
raised both my hands above my head.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "She had her hair cut short, and claimed to be a member of a
    tilted family."--Provincial Paper.

One with a bend sinister, we presume.

       *       *       *       *       *

  A leader of fashion at Ely
  Whose clothes were a bit down-at-heely
      Was quite overcome
      When he found he'd the sum
  That would buy him a Mallaby-Deeley.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BLACK CATS' STRIKE THREAT."

    Heading in a Sunday Paper of a report of a demand made by
    Viennese clerks for doubled salaries.

For "CATS'," read "COATS'." O the diff! as WORDSWORTH said.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Retriever Wanted; steady good worker: retrieve feather or
    fur, land or water."--Provincial Paper.

The exile of Amerongen could do with one of this breed.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The act of the donor suggests the lines:

      "'How far doth that little candle throw its beams
      On like a good deed in a naughty world.'"
                                             Daily Graphic.

The author's name is not given, but we do not think he has improved much on SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YEOMAN TRANSFORMED.

    [In accordance with the new Territorial organisation some
    famous Yeomanry Regiments are to become Motor Machine-Gun
    Units.]

  Can a horseman turn from his heart's desire at the stroke of a
          statesman's pen?
  Can we learn to fight from a motor-car--we who were mounted men?
  In a petrol-tank and a sparking-plug shall we strive to put our
          trust,
  And hang our spurs as a souvenir to gather reproachful rust?

  Shall we never again ride knee to knee in the pomp of squadron line,
  With head-ropes white as a mountain drift and curb chains all
          a-shine?
  Will they dawn no more, those glorious days when the world seemed
          all our own,
  Who rode as scouts on an errant quest, alive, alert, alone?

  Can a man be made by a motor-car as a man is made by a horse,
  With strength in his back and legs and arms, and a brain of swift
          resource?
  We cared for our mounts before ourselves, their thirst before our
          thirst;
  Shall we come to learn, with the same content, to think of an
          engine first?

  Grousing enough. Though times have changed a man may be needed yet.
  Shall we stand aloof in an idle dream to nourish a vain regret?
  Whatever England may ask of us our service must be hers;
  And a horseman's quality 's in his heart and not in a pair of spurs.

W.K.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT MUTTON CAMPAIGN.

The recent disclosures concerning the enormous stocks of frozen mutton held by the Ministry
of Food--some of it killed two years ago--have put the Government on their mettle, and a vigorous
campaign is now in preparation with the object of inducing the public to assist in the disposal
of these overgrown supplies. Mr. Punch, being in touch with sources of information not accessible
to the general Press, has been able to secure an advance copy of a popular appeal Which is
about to be issued broadcast by the Government. It runs as follows:--

"Men, Women and Children of the United Kingdom!"

"The time has now arrived when each one of you is privileged to illumine these drab days of
peace with a show of patriotism no less brilliant than that which lit up the dark years of
war. The task that is demanded is a simple one, and no heavy price is exacted; all that is
required is a single-minded concentration upon the one essential need of the moment.

"Your Government, solicitous as always for your welfare, has during the past two years accumulated
a vast store of nutritious mutton to safeguard you against the peril of starvation. That danger
being happily averted, it is now up to you to eat the stuff. This is not a problem that can
be tackled by half-measures. If you desire to preserve the financial stability of the Empire,
and if you do not wish to go on eating antiquated corpses of Australasian sheep for the rest
of your lives, you must set your teeth in grim earnest, eating against time and chewing over
time. You must consume mutton for breakfast, mutton for luncheon, mutton for tea and mutton
for dinner. In fact, each one of you must in the interests of the State become a mutton glutton.

"Do you shrink from the task? Do you shirk the chop now that you know what is at stake? An
army marches on its stomach; the nation's well-being hangs on yours. Henceforth, until the
'Cease Fire' sounds, you must fall upon the domestic enemy as our gallant soldiers fell upon
the alien foe. No quarter must be given, no quarter, fore or hind, be permitted to escape.
Beef must be banned and veal avoided as the plague; no Briton worthy of the name will claim a fowl.

"What are you going to do about it? Do you intend (to borrow a Trans-atlantic phrase) to give
the frozen mitt to the frozen mutt? Or are you going to take it to your bosom and give it there,
or thereabouts, the home for which it has so long been vainly seeking?

"Do it now and do it always. Let your daily motto be--'Revenons à nos moutons.'"

In addition to the foregoing, every British housewife is to be supplied with a valuable booklet
containing a number of official recipes for dealing with mutton. Among the tasty dishes thus
described may be mentioned Whitehall Hash, Ministerial Mince, Reconstruction Rissoles, Control
Cutlets and Separation Stew.

Mr. Punch also learns that in honour of the campaign the Yeomen of the Guard are henceforth
to be popularly known as the "Muttoneaters."

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT OF THE DUMPS?

    ["We repeat our question, therefore, and expect a 'Yes' or
    'No' answer: Have all the dumps been sold, or have they
    not?"--Daily Mail.]

  While wealth untold lies heaped in idleness
    We will not see the nation go to pot;
  We ask you (kindly answer "No" or "Yes"):
    Have all the dumps been sold, or have they not?

  By many a shell-torn desolate chateau
    Stand monumental piles of martial store
  Reared up long since to stem a savage foe
    By labours of the Army Service Corps;

  And day by day, in spite of our advice,
    They linger wastefully to rust and rot;
  We ask (and let your answer be concise):
    Have all the dumps been sold, or have they not?

  No more may KELLAWAY in bland retort
    Disguise the truth with verbal circumstance;
  Our special correspondents still report:
    "Entrenching tools obscure the face of France.".

  The case is plain; the issue is distinct;
    You either answer now or out you trot
  (And kindly make that answer quite succinct):
    Have all the dumps been sold, or have they not?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WEDDING ROMANCE.

    "The acquaintanceship soon developed into a house where Miss
    ---- was living."--Daily Paper.

The chief obstacle to matrimony being thus removed, there could, of course, be only one end
to the story.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Committee has decided to call the contest the 'Golden
    Apple Challenge,' having in mind the legend of Paris giving
    a golden apple to Helen of Troy as the fairest of the three
    beautiful women who came to ask his judgment."--Daily Mail.

Personally we never attach much importance to these Paris legends.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

During the past few years the plays and stories, especially the stories, of ANTON TCHEHOV have
so triumphantly captured English-speaking readers that there must be many who will welcome
with eagerness the volume of his Letters (CHATTO AND WINDUS). This happy chance we owe, of
course, directly to Mrs. CONSTANCE GARNETT, who here proves once again that in her hands translation
ranks as a fine art. Both the Letters and the Biographical Sketch that precedes them are of
extraordinary charm and interest. Because TCHEHOV'S stories are so conspicuously uncoloured
by the personality of their writer (his method being, as it were, to lead the reader to a window
of absolute transparency and bid him look for himself), it comes almost as a shock to find
how vivid and many-hued that personality in fact was. Nor is it less astonishing to observe
a nature so alive with sympathy expressing itself in an art so detached. More than once his
letters to literary friends are concerned with a defence of this method: "Let the jury judge
them; it's my job simply to show what sort of people they are." They are filled also with a
thousand instances of the author's delight in nature, in country sights and scents, and of
his love and understanding for animals (from which of the Tales is it that one recalls the
dog being lifted into the cart "wearing a strained smile"?) Throughout too, if you have already
read the eight little volumes that contain the stories--which I certainly advise as a preliminary--you
will be continually experiencing the pleasure of recognising the inspiration for this or that
remembered scene. In short, one of the most fascinating books that has come my way for a long time.

I needn't pretend that Bed and Black (METHUEN), by GRACE S. RICHMOND, is what is known to the
superior as a serious work of art or that the men (particularly) of her creating are what would
be called likely. But there's a sincerity about the writing which one has to respect. Of her
two heroes, Red is Redfield Pepper Burns, the rude and rugged doctor, and Black is the Rev.
Robert McPherson Black, the perfect paragon of a padre in an American provincial town. The
author's main thesis is that padres are made of the right stuff. Black, who was all for getting
into the War from the beginning, rushes off to Europe as chaplain with the first American drafts,
gets wounded, decorated and married. The conversion of Red Pepper, the doctor, and of Jane
Ray, who became Mrs. Black, is a little too easily contrived to be very convincing. But this
is a simple work for simple souls who like a wholesome tale with a distinct list to the side
of the angels. Such untoward conduct as here appears is not put in for its own interesting
sake, but merely to bring out the white-souled nobility of the principals.

       *       *       *       *       *

