

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

SHAKSPEARE'S USE OF "DELIGHTED."

Although Dr. Kennedy does not think I have discovered the source from whence Shakspeare's word
delighted is derived, I am gratified to find that he concurs with me in drawing a distinction
between this and the more common word. His failure to convince me is a source almost of regret,
so happy do I regard the derivation he proposes in the last passage cited. But in the passage
from Measure for Measure, it does not appear to me to express the sense which I deduce from
the context; and as I look upon the word in question as the same in each of the three passages,
I feel more inclined to adhere to my view, that it is a word of English manufacture, according
to the analogy referred to. I express my opinion with hesitation and there can be no doubt
the question is deserving of full and attentive consideration.

Strengthened, however, in my main purpose, which was to show that Shakspeare did not use delighted
in the ordinary sense of highly gratified, I am better prepared to meet MR. HALLIWELL. This
gentleman does me no more than justice in the remark, not expressed, though, I hope, implied,
that I would not knowingly make use of an offensive expression towards him or any living man;
and I appreciate the courtesy with which he has sweetened the uncomplimentary things he has
felt constrained to say of me. I trust it will be found that I can repay his courtesy and imitate
his forbearance. As a preliminary remark, however, I must say that MR. HALLIWELL, in his haste,
has confounded the "cool impertinence" for which I censured one editor, with the "cool correction"
which was made by another; and, moreover, has referred the remark to Measure for Measure, which
I applied to the notes to the passage in Othello. As I have not yet learned to regard the term
"delightful" as an active participle, it is evident that, however "cool" I may consider the
correction, I have not called it an "impertinence." But he has no mind that I should escape
so easily; and therefore, like a true knight-errant, he adopts the cause without hesitation,
as though to be first satisfied of its goodness would be quite inconsistent in its champion.

When I am charged with an "entire want of acquaintance with the grammatical system" employed
by Shakspeare, I might take exception to the omission of the words "as understood by Mr. Halliwell,"
this gentleman assuming the very point in question between us. I believe he has paid particular
attention to this subject; but he must not conclude that all who presume to differ from him
"judge Shakspeare's grammar by Cobbett or Murray." And if I were disposed to indulge in as
sweeping an expression, I should say that the remark excites a suspicion of the writer's want
of acquaintance with the spirit of Shakspeare's works. I do not think so, though I think MR.
HALLIWELL has formed his opinion hastily; and I think, moreover, that before I have ended,
I shall convince him that it would not have been amiss had he exercised a little more reflection
ere he began. In the passage in Othello, I object to the substitution of delighting or delightful
for delighted, as weak epithets, and such as I do not believe that Shakespeare would have used.
It was not as a schoolmaster or grammarian, but in reference to the peculiar fitness and force
of his expressions, and his perfect acquaintance with the powers of the English language, and
his mastery over it, that I called Shakespeare its greatest master.

