PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

August 8, 1891.

LARKS FOR LONDONERS.

Sir,--Certainly throw open all our Town Halls for gratuitous concerts and dances! But that's
not half enough. Some of us don't care for dancing, and abhor music. What I propose is that
Free Billiard-tables should be established in each parish. Billiards is much better exercise
than sitting still on a chair listening to singing. Then there ought to be places where one
could get municipal tobacco without paying for it. Tobacco is just as much a necessary of life
as education--more so, in fact, in my opinion. On winter evenings it would also be nice to
be able to step over to one's Town Hall and have a glass or two of free ale, or "wine from
the wood"--also from the rates. I don't pay rates myself, as I happen to live in a flat, but
I am sure the ratepayers will immediately recognise the justice of my demands.

  UNBIASSED.

Sir,--By all means let us try to give more pleasure to the people. The pleasure, however, should
be of a distinctly elevating kind. I would advocate throwing open the South Kensington Natural
History Museum in the evening. This would be most useful, especially to people living at the
East End, and the amusement thus afforded, though perhaps not rollicking, would at all events
be solid. To keep out undesirable characters, it would be as well to admit nobody who could
not produce his baptismal certificate, and a recommendation from the clergyman of his parish,
countersigned by a resident J.P. I am sure that people would jump at a chance of an evening
among the Coleoptera.

  Yours, NATURALIST.

Sir,--I cannot understand why people should ask for more amusement than they get at present.
Have not they the Parks to walk about in? In wet weather they can take shelter under trees.
In winter they ought to stay at home in the evenings, and enjoy reading aloud to their families.
I would even go so far as to allow an occasional game at draughts. Chess is too exciting, and
of course backgammon is out of the question, because of the deadly dice-box. For the frivolously
inclined, "Puss in the Corner" is a harmless indoor game. I throw out these observations for
what they may be worth, and trusting that they will not be regarded as dangerously subversive
of morality, I remain,

  Yours grimly, HOME, SWEET HOME!

Sir,--The movement for turning our Town Halls into places of amusement is an excellent one.
What I would like to suggest is, that the Vestrymen should themselves take part in the entertainments.
Why not have weekly theatrical performances, with parts found for all local Authorities? I
feel convinced that Hamlet, played by our Vestry, would be worth going miles to see. The Dust
Contractor could play the Ghost, while minor characters could be sustained by the Medical Officer
of Health, the Chaplain of the Workhouse, and others; the Chairman, of course, would figure
in the title rôle. A topical comic song, by the Board of Guardians, with breakdown, might serve
as a pleasing interlude; breakdowns in local matters are, I believe, not unknown already. The
idea is worth considering. I think the Vestrymen owe something to the ratepayers in return
for the votes we give them.

  Yours, MERRY ANDREW.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRUISERS AND BOLUSES.--A "Champion" pugilist is even more presumptuous than a popular Pill.
He claims to be "Worth a Thousand Guineas a 'Box.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

AFTER THE SEASON.

A PROPOSAL FIN DE SIÈCLE.

  Farewell! since the Season is over,
    Ah me, but its moments were sweet!
  You are oft', viâ Folkestone or Dover,
    To some Continental retreat.
  On Frenchman and German you'll lavish
    The smiles that can madden me still;
  While I, with the gillie McTavish,
    Am breasting the heather-clad hill.

  Oh, do you remember the dances,
    The dearest were those we sat out,
  How I frowned when detecting your glances
    On others, which caused you to pout?
  You are changeful and coy and capricious,
    A weathercock easily blown;
  But when shall I hear the delicious
    One word that proclaims you my own?

  They say that an eloquent passion
    Has long become quite out of date,
  That true love is never the fashion,
    And marriage a wearisome state.
  They conjure up many a bogie,
    To guard a man's bachelor life,
  And keep him a selfish old fogey,
    And stop him from taking a wife.

  They vow that a wife needs a carriage,
    And opera-boxes and stalls,
  That money's the one thing in marriage,
    And cheques are as common as calls.
  They say women shy (like some horses)
    At vows made to love and obey;
  They tell you drear tales of divorces,
    And scandals, the talk of the day.

  But hang all those cynical railings,
    Just write me one exquisite line
  To say you'll look over my failings,
    And promise me you will be mine.
  And though I'm aware it's the merest
    Small matter of detail, to clear
  The ground, I may mention, my dearest,
    I've full thirty thousand a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

BACON AND A MOUTHFUL.--Last Friday His Honour Judge BACON had to decide a case which was headed
in the papers "Cagliostromantheon." What a mouthful! Mrs. CHURCHILL-JODRELL, who was a fair
defendant, won the case; and His Honour--this appeal having been made to His Honour by Mr.
B. PLAYFAIR, an excellent name for any gentleman, on or off the stage, but especially for one
described as "an actor,"--decided that His Honour was satisfied. Peace with His Honour!

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW TORY NURSERY RHYME.

(BY "A CAMBRIDGE PARSON.")

    ["The last reliance of the Tories in extremity is the policy
    of 'Dishing.'"--Sir W. Harcourt.]

  Hey diddle diddle,
  The voters we'd fiddle
    With Free Education--that "boon."
  But Wisbech birds laugh
  At such plain party "chaff,"
    And the "Dish"--at the polls--proves a "Spoon."

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM GRANDOLPH THE EXPLORER.

Oh, for one hour of the Amphytrion! I can't even send you a digest of the news generally, for
my power to digest is already becoming seriously impaired. Here, indeed, as say the Witches
in Macbeth (I think it's the Witches, but haven't my Shakspeare handy, I mean my Handy Shakspeare,
with me--wish I had), "Fowl is Fare." Send my Pilgrim's Scrip next week. Till then, Yours ever,
GRANDOLPH.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE NAME OF CHARLES DIBDIN!

A LAY FOR THE LIFEBOAT SERVICE.

    [An urgent appeal is made on behalf of the Royal National
    Lifeboat Institution, which is declared to be "in dire
    financial straits," the deficit for last year being £33,000.
    Subscriptions and donations will be thankfully received
    by CHARLES DIBDIN, Esq., Secretary, R.N.L.I., 14, St. John
    Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.]

  True "tuneful CHARLEY is no more,"
    As DIBDIN's Monument informs us;
  But memory of the man who bore
    That honoured name still stirs and warms us.
  And here's another of his name,
    Who still the British Sailor's serving;
  Then who could see without sore shame
    JOHN BULL from his plain duty swerving?

  Thirty-three Thousand to the bad,
    Our Lifeboat Service, once our glory?
  Nay, JOHN, that will not do, my lad;
    Next year must tell a different story.
  Think, what would "tuneful CHARLEY" say
    To such a thing? In racy lingo,
  Upon our backs his lash he'd lay,
    And give the slothful Britons "stingo."

  Thirty-five thousand lives they've saved,
    Our Life-boat rescuers, already.
  The seas around our shores they've braved,
    With valour prompt and patience steady.
  Shall they be floored for L.S.D.,
    Because JOHN BULL his pockets buttons?
  Then the old keepers of the Sea
    Must be, in pluck, as dead as muttons.

  True, lads, on such a text as this
    "We sadly miss old CHARLEY's line;"
  But were we mute, Neptune would hiss
    His sons degenerate off the brine.
  Old "CHARLEY" spins his yarns no more!
    He's dead, as Scrooge declared old Marley.
  What then? Wake up, from shore to shore,
     And--send your guineas to Young CHARLEY!

       *       *       *       *       *

"GREAT SCOT!"

    [Extorted, by circumstances beyond his control, from a stolid
    but unsuccessful Saxon Shootist at Bisley and Wimbledon, after
    the match at the latter place between picked twenties of the
    London Scottish and the London Rifle Brigade, won easily by
    the former team.]

  Oh! the Scot lot are all cracks at a shot,
  And extremely successful at Hunting the Pot.
  This particular "Saxon" the hump has got,
  Being licked by a team which is Picked and Scot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Autocrat (aside). "HUMPH! CHARMING CREATURES, BOTH; BUT CAN'T SAY I LIKE THEIR COSTUMES!"]

  "How happy could I be with either?"
    Humph! N-n-o-o, I can hardly say that!
  Yet here we are, tripping together,
    Republics and proud Autocrat!
  Two cats and a Boreal Bruin!--
    So satire will say, I've no doubt.
  And some will declare it must ruin
    The Russdom once ruled by the knout.
  I wonder--I very much wonder--
    What NICK to this sight would have said--
  I fear he'd have looked black as thunder,
    And savage as RURIC the Red.
  For this did we lose the Crimea?
    For this did we larrup the Jews?
  I really had not an idea
    Republics could rule--and amuse.
  Miss FRANCE looks extremely coquettish.
    How well Miss COLUMBIA can coax!
  The Teuton, no doubt, will look pettish,
    The Briton will grumble "a hoax."
  Aha! I can snub a Lord Mayor,
    And give shouting Emperors a hint;
  I back La Belle France. Her betrayer
    My meaning must see, plain as print.
  My reply to the great Guildhall grumble
    Had less of politeness than pith,
  But--well I've no wish so to humble
    My friend Mr. EMORY SMITH,
  Or CRAWFORD, the Consul. No thank ye,
    Persona gratissima, he;
  And therefore I yield to the Yankee
    The boon I refused to J.B.
  But yet, all the same, it is funny
    To see Three like us in One Boat.
  COLUMBIA looks dulcet as honey,
    Miss F.'s every glance is a gloat.
  I never imagined Republics
    Could have such a "bearing" as these.
  Enjoyingly as a bear cub licks
    The comb sweetly filled by the bees,
  I list to their flattering-chatter;
    Their voices are pleasant--in praise;
  But--well, though it seems a small matter,
    I don't like that dashed "Marseillaise."
  And "Israel in Egypt" sounds pointed
    I'd Pharaoh the miscreants--but stay,
  My soliloquy's getting disjointed,
    I've promised! COLUMBIA looks gay,
  La Belle France displays a grande passion;
    My arms they unitedly press.
  One thing though; the Phrygian fashion
    Is not my ideal of dress.
  They swear that they both love me dearly,
    Their "best of old Autocrat Chaps!"
  They are setting their Caps at me, clearly,
    But,--well, I don't quite like the Caps!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAPLESS MAID.

    ["The plaintiff gave evidence that she was engaged as a sort
    of house and parlour-maid ... and was discharged after she
    had been there nine days, because she refused to wear a
    cap ... His Honour: I do not think she was bound to wear a
    cap."--Daily Paper.]

    What shall we do with our Maid?
      How shall we treat her best?
  Shall the gems that are rare be strewed in her hair?
      And shall she in silks be drest?
    Shall we make her a gift of gold?
      Shall we make her our queen? Perhaps.
  But whatever we make her, wherever we take her,
      We never must make her wear caps.

    Imperious, capless, supreme,
      Do just as you please evermore;
  And wear what you will, for we shall be
      And never complain as before.
    We may put all our money in mines,
      We may put all our cheese into traps,
  But we put, it is clear, our foot in it, dear,
      When we try to put you into caps.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DIFFERENCE.

    ["It needs no argument to show that in the summer of 1893
    Mr. GLADSTONE is less likely to take an active part in any
    electoral contest than he can be in the spring or autumn of
    1892."--Mr. Edward Dicey, on "The Next Parliament."]

  "Time's on our side," said GLADSTONE. DICEY, too,
  Takes Edax Rerum as his friend most true.
  GLADSTONE Time's "Hour Glass" trusts; but DICEY's blithe
  Because his hopes are centred on Time's scythe.
  Faith lives in Life, but Fear's most vigorous breath
  Lives "in the sure and certain hope"--of Death!

       *       *       *       *       *

RESIGNATION.

  "Fire! Fire!"
  "Where? where?'
  SHAW's resigned.
  Then find
  Another one!
  Many gone?
  Fire! Where?
  Here's a scare!!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

UPON A GLOVE.

(AFTER THE FASHION--MORE OR LESS--OF HERRICK.)

  Oh, limp and leathery type of Social Sham,
      And Legislative Flam!
  Which cunning CUNNINGHAME and MATTHEWS cool
      (Both prompt to play the fool,
  In free-lance fashion or official form)
      Prattled of, 'midst a storm
  Of crackling laughter, and ironic cheers,
      And sniggering, "Hear, hears!"--
  Thou summest well the humbug of our lives.
      The fistic "bunch of fives"
  Is not like JULIA's jewelled "palm of milk"
      Shrouded in kid or silk,
  But JULIA was a sensuous little "sell,"
      And SMITH and PRITCHARD--well,
  One would not like a clump upon the head
      From the teak-noddled "TED,"
  Or e'en a straight sockdollager from "JEM;"
      But somehow "bhoys" like them,
  Who mill three rounds to an uproarious "house,"
      And only nap "a mouse,"
  Though one before the end of the third bout
      Is clean "knocked out,"--
  Such burly, brawny buffetters for hire,
      Who in ten minutes tire,
  And clutch the ropes, and turn a Titan back
      To shun the impending thwack,--
  Such "Champions" smack as much of trick and pelf
      As venal JULIA's self.
  GRAHAM may be a "specialist," no doubt,
      And "What is a knock-out?"
  May mystify ingenuous MATTHEWS much;
      But Truth's Ithuriel touch
  Applied to pulpy "JEM" and steely "TED,"
      (Of "slightly swollen" head)
  As well as unsophisticated COBB,
      (If Truth were "on the job,")
  Might find False Show and Pharisaic "Stodge,"
      And Law-evading dodge,
  Dissimulating "Innocence," sham bravery,
      Blind Justice, lynx-eyed knavery,
  All the material the Satirist loves,
      In those same "four-ounce gloves"!

       *       *       *       *       *

OMITTED FROM PORTRAIT GALLERY

AT THE ROYAL NAVAL EXHIBITION.

Portrait of William Hatley, Black-Eye'd Susan, and Captain Crosstree, R.N.

Portrait of Tom Bowline. Also a picture of Davy Jones, to be presented by Mr. Frederick Locker.

A Horse Marine, A.D. 1815.

Portrait of William Taylor, as a gay young fellow. Also his affianced bride, as "William Carr,"
after she had "dabbled her lily-white hands in the nasty pitch and tar." The portrait also
of the aforesaid Alice, evidently rather a weak-minded young person.

Also pictures of "Pol" and "Partner Joe;" and a likeness of "Black Brandon," very rare, in
"penny plain" form, or "twopence coloured."

       *       *       *       *       *

WITH THE B.M.A. AT BOURNEMOUTH.

In order to satisfy myself as to truth in conflicting reports about Bournemouth as a summer
resort, I take express 12·30 from Waterloo, and go straight away to my terminus, stopping,
if I remember rightly, only twice on the road. First-rate run, through lovely scenery, with
the London and South-Western Pack; found at Waterloo, and, with the exception of a slight check
of only three minutes at Southampton Water--scent generally lost where water is, I believe--and
another of a few seconds at Brockenhurst, ran into our quarry at Bournemouth Station West,
in just two hours and a half. [Happy Thought.--Lunch en route, between 12·30 and 3. Pullman
cars attached to some trains, not all. Certainly recommend Pullman, where possible; all comforts
at hand for eating and drinking: likewise smoking-room, &c., &c.]

Generally understood that Bournemouth is the Monte Carlo, or Nice, or Monaco, or Riviera of
England. May be it is; if so, Monte Carlo, and the rest can't be so hot in summer as they are
painted, for Bournemouth just now is (I speak of the last week in July) at a delightfully mean
temperature,--if I may be allowed to use the word "mean" without implying any sort of disrespect
for the Bournemouthers.

Bournemouth apparently crowded. Do not remember it on any previous occasional visit, in autumn
or spring, so crowded as at this present moment. Odd!

"Not at all," explains flyman; "British Medical Association here. All sorts of festivities.
Hotels all crowded. Lodgings too."

If the worst come to the worst, I shall have to spend a night in a bathing-machine. Not bad:
if fine. Can be called early; then sea-bath; also man to bring hot water and towels. While
speculating on this probability, we arrive at

Royal Bath Hotel.--Flag flying, showing that British Medical Association Family are at home.
Other flags elsewhere express same idea. B.M.A. at home everywhere, of course. Array of servants
in brown liveries and gilt buttons in outer hall, preparing to receive visitors. Pleasant and
courteous Manager--evidently Manager--with foreign accent receives me smilingly. "Any difficulty
about rooms?" I ask, nervously. "None whatever in your case," returns courteous Manager, bowing
most graciously as he emphasises the possessive pronoun. In the hall are trim young ladies,
pleasant matronly ladies, chorus of young porters and old porters, all smiling, and awaiting
my lightest bow and heaviest baggage. I am "to be shown up." (Absit omen!) However, I am shown
up. Charming room: sea-view, nearly all the views from the windows of Royal Bath are sea-views,
take the Bath which way you will; and the welcome is so warm, it ought to be The Warm Bath Hotel.

I am looking for something which has probably been left in the hall. "Let me see," I say, musingly,
to myself, as I look round; "where's my waterproof with two capes? I've missed--er--" I hesitate,
being still uncertain.

A sprightly Boots is going hurriedly out of the room. He pauses in his swift career, as if
catching my last words. I hear him repeat, "Missed--er--" and then "Capes." To this he adds,
sharply, "Yes, Sir, I'll tell him," and vanishes.

"Tell him?" Oh, probably he means that he will tell the other Boots to bring up my waterproof
with the double capes. But to make assurance doubly sure, I go to the top of the stairs and
call out, "Wrapper--with two capes--probably in the hall--don't see it here." To which, from
somewhere down below in obscurity, the voice of the Boots comes up to me, "Capes in the hall,"
then something inaudible, finishing with, "up there."

I return to my apartment. Lovely view. Open window. Balmy and refreshing breeze. Becoming aware
of the fact that I have left the door open, expecting return of Boots with waterproof wrapper,
I am turning to shut it, when "to me enters" as the old stage-directions have it, a distinguished-looking
gentleman, bearded and moustached, white-vested, and generally "in full fig."--(Mem.--Write
to Notes and Queries, Unde derivatur--"Full fig?") who advances briskly but quietly towards
me. My visitor has evidently made some mistake in the number of his room. At least, I hope
the mistake isn't on my part, or on the urbane Manager's part, in putting me up here. Smart
visitor bows. I am about to explain that he is in error, and that this is my room, when he
deprecates any remark by saying, "Delighted to meet you; my name is CAPES. The porter told
me you wished to see me. I am sure, Sir, I am more than delighted to see you!" and he proffers
his hand, which I take and shake heartily, at the same time wondering where on earth we have
met before, and why he should be so effusively joyful at seeing me again. Suddenly, as I release
his hand, I see where the mistake is, and how it has arisen. A brilliant flash of memory recalls
to my mind that in an advertisement I have read how this hotel belongs to Mr. CAPES,--Mr. NORFOLK
CAPES, F.R.G.S., &c., &c. This amiable gentleman who bids me welcome so heartily is the Proprietor
himself. I also am delighted. "Very kind of him to take this trouble," I say.

"Not at all," he won't hear of there being any special kindness on his part. And as to trouble!--well,
he scouts that idea with an energetic wave of his hand. Now, he wants to know, what will I
do, where will I go, what will I take? Section A. of the Medical Association is meeting in
the Town Hall, but I shall be late for that; or "perhaps," suggests the considerate Proprietor,
"you would like to rest a bit before dinner at seven. Then there's the Concert afterwards.
I have tickets for you, and no doubt on your return you'll have a cigar in the smoking-room
with your friends, and be glad to get to bed."

I thank him: most kind. I say, smilingly, that "No doubt, shall meet some friends;" a remark
which seems to tickle him immensely. As a matter of fact, however, I confide to him that I
should prefer keeping myself quiet this evening, as I have so much to do to-morrow morning.

"Of course you have," assents the Proprietor most sympathetically. "And you'd like to rest
as much as possible to-night after your journey. You'd like a table to yourself a little later.
No--no--no thanks, I'm only too delighted."

And, so saying, the kind Proprietor leaves me to see to the hundred-and-one things he has to
do to-day, only stopping the Boots, who now arrives with the double-caped waterproof I had
sent him for, to point me out to him, and to tell him to order a private table for me in the
salle à manger "at--at?"--he queries--and I reply by inquiring if I may fix it for 7·45, as
the room will be quieter then. "Certainly," says Mr. NORFOLK CAPES, without making the slightest
difficulty about it. Then, turning to Boots, he says, "7·45," whereupon Boots repeats the mystic
formula. And thus 'tis arranged.

Delightful gardens of Hotel. Stroll out on to cliff. Beautiful air, not the least enervating.
On the contrary, refreshing. Returning later on to dress, I see the salle à manger full to
overflowing. The Medicals are all feeding well and wisely, as Medicals ought to do. A pleasant
company. Only a few of the younger and idler spirits remain when I sit down to my dinner about
eight. Excellent cuisine. Couldn't be better. Salmon-trout from Christchurch, Poole pickles,
beef from Boscombe, Hampshire ham with Bournemouth beans. For wine, Peter Pommery '80; and
the whole to finish with Corfe Castle Korffee, a Lyndhurst liqueur, and cigar in the sea-garden,
or garden o'erlooking the sea.

Lovely night. Then, after a stroll, "to bed," as Lady Macbeth observes. Sensible person, Lady Mac.

On second thoughts will look at papers in smoking-room. Am alone at first, but in a few minutes
room crowded. Medical Association has returned in force. I catch occasional bits in conversation:--

"Pity MCSIMMUM (or some name very like this) couldn't come. Great pity; missed him immensely."
(Here several stories about MCSIMMUM, all evidently more or less good, and all interesting.
I myself begin to wish that MCSIMMUM had arrived. He would have been an acquisition.) More
medical men of various ages and with variety of spectacles. All enjoying themselves thoroughly,--quite
medical boys out for a holiday,--but every one of them, individually and collectively, intensely
regretting the absence of Dr. MCSIMMUM. I hear the voice of my friend Mr. CAPES in the passage.
I will ask Mr. CAPES about this celebrated Dr. MCSIMMUM, whom evidently I ought to know, at
least by repute. Perhaps I have known him by sight for years; perhaps he is a man with whom
I often dine at the Club, and who entertains us in the smoking-room with strange stories of
odd patients. His name I have heard long ago. Was it MCSIMMUM? Not unlikely. Can't remember.

Mr. CAPES is energetically explaining and protesting to everybody. Amid the hum and buzz of
voices, I catch what he is saying. It is, "My dear Sir, Dr. MCSIMMUM is here. I've seen him.
He dined alone. He said he preferred it, as he had so much to do to-morrow." Then several exclaim,
"But where is he now?"

"I don't know," replies the Proprietor. "Most likely, being tired, he has gone to bed. I myself
showed him to his room, No. 142, on his arrival."

Heavens! The number of my room--is 142! Not another man in there! No.... I see it all now,
I am Dr. MCSIMMUM! The real MCSIMMUM hasn't arrived, and he hasn't sent a message. This accounts
for my welcome, and the absence of all difficulty in obtaining a room. But if he arrives now!
where shall I be?

"What's that about MCSIMMUM?" says a jovial voice, coming right into the midst of them.

To which inquiry responds a chorus, "He's here! Mr. CAPES says so, but no one's seen him."

"And no one's likely to." returns the cheery speaker. "He's staying with some friends a little
way out of the town. He has just sent me a note by hand to say that he won't occupy his room
till to-morrow, and will be much obliged if Mr. CAPES will forward by bearer a bag that was
labelled and addressed to the room taken for him here, No. 142."

"But--" exclaims the Proprietor, aghast, "but--"

At this moment I catch sight of the man with the cheery voice. Saved! I know him. It is my
old friend, Sir JOHN HARTLEY, M.D., who, years ago, told me there was nothing the matter with
me, only I must take a holiday and go abroad to get better (most excellent advice, and I've
never been quite well since), and who now exclaims, with all his old breadth of manner, "What
you here! Bravo! We'll make you an honorary member!"

The Proprietor looks at me, and I at the Proprietor. I know what is passing through the mind
of Mr. NORFOLK CAPES, F.R.G.S. and P.R.B.H. I hasten to relieve his anxiety by saying, "Thanks;
I'm here only for the night; I'm off to-morrow. I've just come down here to look for a house.
By the way, I rather think that Dr. MCSIMMUM's bag must be in my room. Let's see."

So I depart with the Proprietor. Explanations en route. Dr. MCSIMMUM's bag has been placed
in my room, I should say in his room. But I've got the apartment, and if it hadn't been for
the mistake, I should have been homeless and houseless, and a wanderer on the face of the sand
at Bournemouth. Must write to that best of all doctors, MCSIMMUM, and thank him for not coming
to-night.

As it is I spend a delightful evening with the Members of the B.M.A. here assembled, in the
smoking-room. The conversation is chiefly about the use of alcohol and tobacco as poisons.
The decision arrived at towards one o'clock A.M., or, more correctly speaking, the Inn-decision,
is that, on this particular occasion, one glass more of something or other, and just one last
pipe or cigar, cannot possibly hurt anybody. This is carried nem. con.: and so, subsequently,
we adjourn, not carried but walking, soberly and honestly, to bed.

Next morning up with the lark, indeed a trifle earlier, and after examining Bournemouth and
finding excellent residences up above in beautiful air where it must always be breezy, I thank
Mr. NORFOLK CAPES, F.R.G.S. and P.R.B.H for the Hospitality shown me in his exceptionally pleasant
house, and I return by the swift 2·5 P.M. train, which lands me at Vauxhall at 4·30 to the
moment. Of course I am now expecting my diploma as Honorary Member of the British Medical Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER JUBILEE.--That of the Old Stagers at Canterbury. Free List entirely suspended at the
Theatre, with the exception of just A Scrap Of Paper in the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

KURDS AND AWAY!

  Indignant we spoke out, and any amount
  Of strong language we used when we read the account,
  And a tear slowly rolled down our cheek when we heard
  Of the youthful Miss G. and the Kidnapping Kurd.

  We sat in our chairs, and, quite reckless of life,
  We wiped out the insult with war to the knife;
  And it only redoubled our anger to read
  That the girl--so they said--had abandoned her creed.

  Such a thing was absurd, and, of course, wasn't true;
  Much perplexed, we all wondered what we ought for to do,
  Though we heard with delight they were on the girl's track,
  And we wept in our joy when we knew she was back.

  But the wonderful ending remains to be told,
  For the maiden was fond of the warrior bold,
  And embracing her husband (as is usual with brides)
  Mrs. AZIZ embraced his religion besides.

  So our tears were all wasted, our threats all in vain,
  We can now feel quite calm and collected again.
  At the fate of the lady we all should rejoice,
  She is happy with AZIZ, the man of her choice.

  Good luck to the bridegroom! Good luck to the bride!
  Good luck to the knot they have hastily tied!
  With all due respect, let us venture to say
  That we hope from her Kurd she will not run away!

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT SEES THE PHOTOGRAFF TAKEN.

Well, I have seen some grandly hinteresting sites in my time, I have, but never, no never,
did I see anythink to ekal the picter as I seed on the werry larst day of July larst week,
when, by such a series of good lucks as I ardly ever had afore, I was priveledged for to see
the Rite Honerable the Lord MARE prepare hisself, with his two lately benighted Sheriffs, in
the most scrumptious of their many rich dresses, and with the solid gold Carsket as was guv
to the HEMPERER of GARMANY about a fortnight ago, and had most misteriously cum back from abroad,
all for to be photograffed altogether in one big grupe, with all the Aldermen as they coud
find handy in their rich crimson silk dresses, and several werry Common Counsellers and Town
Clarks and Remembrensers, et setterer, in horder as the longing world may see what sorts of
Gents they was, and how they all looked when in their werry best close, and with their lovely
solid gold deckorations on (as the HEMPERER and the Prince of WALES begged and prayed as they
might have one a-peace) who arranged and carried out the grandest show of modern times, wiz,
when the GERMAN HEMPEROR and his wife cum to Guildhall. Oh, wasn't they a long wile before
the Gent coud get 'em all into good places, and didn't they all look sollem, when he said,
"Quite steddy, please!"

But not noboddy as reddily gives a ginny for a mere coppy of what I saw dun, will see all I
saw without paying no ginny, and that was, to see the hole grand picter built up, as it were,
beginning with the Lord MARE in his white hermine robe of poority and his black Cocked Hat
of Power all most bewtifoolly and kindly arranged for him by the hartistic Sheriff.

And then what a lesson on trew humility, to see the Lord MARE, in all his glory, retire to
the Committee's dressing-room, and there strip hisself to his werry shirt-sleeves and clothe
hisself in the mere hordnary close of common humanety!

Ah! I henvys no man his persession of the bewtifool Photygraff, for I, almost alone, can say,
tho but a pore hed Waiter, I saw the grand pictur grow like' a bewtifool dream, and then saw
it fade away like a strawbery hice on a Summer's Day!

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

LA POLITESSE DE PORTSMOUTH.--The French Fleet may depend upon a courteous welcome at Portsmouth
by the Mayor, who is the "Pink" of Politeness.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"A LONG DISTANCE SWIM."

    ["Our Session began before last year was closed. It has been
    a Session full of anxiety, full of fatigue. I am thankful to
    agree with your Lordship in thinking that the people of this
    country will recognise that it has been a Session of hard and
    valuable work."--Lord Salisbury at the Mansion House.]

  Don't talk about WEED, FINNEY, FISHER, or DALTON;
    As Long Distance Swimmer our SOLLY stands first,
  His wild watery way never tempted to halt on,
    Undaunted by cold as by hunger or thirst.
  Nine months in the waves, though, no man may enjoy;
  So he's glad that at last he's in sight of the buoy.

  In November last year he first entered the water,
    To start on this special, most arduous swim,
  It was cold, with the wind in a winterly quarter,
    But winds, like the waves, have small terrors for him.
  You remember accounts that the papers then gave
  (Here's an extract) concerning this King of the Wave.

"SOLLY (of Hatfield), and SMIFF (who hails from Greenlands), started yesterday (November 25),
for a second attempt--the first having been a failure--to swim from Tithes Pier to Purchase
Point Buoy. It was an unfavourable time of the year for such an unprecedented feat of natation,
but the Hatfield Champion was confident of success. He is a perfect whale at long-distance
immersions, and has been heard to talk of 'twenty years of resolute' swimming against stream
as a comparative trifle. His 'pal and pardner,' SMIFF--more commonly known as the Sanguine
Old 'Un--was equally confident. Two boats accompanied the Champion, in one of which was his
trusty Pilot, SMIFF, and in the other a Party of their 'Mutual Friends.' One thing, indeed,
was in the Hatfield man's favour; his lately cocky and contemptuous competitors had been 'weeded
out' by a fortuitous series of adverse circumstances, including what SOLLY, in a spirit of
cynical but excusable elation, subsequently called 'that beneficent disease, the Influenza.'
The Irish Contingent, which not long ago looked dangerous, had become so thoroughly demoralised
by mutual hostilities and disputes between them and their backers, that there was not a single
'Paddy' prepared to enter the water when the signal 'gun' fired for the start. SOLLY, therefore,
had it all to himself; the performance practically resolves itself into a trial of his skill
and endurance, and the 'Scythe Bearer' is the only enemy against whom the Great Swimmer has
to measure himself. Indeed, he covered what may be called the first stage of his long journey
with ease, and in an unexpectedly short time. Nevertheless, it is to be feared that 'later
on' he will have to contend against cold, little or no sun, northerly breezes, &c.; the 'flowing
tide' will assuredly not always be with him, and before he gets to the end of his briny journey,
even the Hatfield Wonder will probably have 'had enough of it.'"

  True prognostication! But skilful natation
    Despite some "anxiety" and much "fatigue,"
  Has "pulled SOLLY through" to his "pardner's elation."
    Together they've plodded o'er many a league
  Of big tumbling billows. See those in the rear!
  They were ridden with skill, though regarded with fear.

  "The flowing tide" fails him, but side-stroke and breast-stroke
    Alternately serve him; fatigued but unhurt,
  Like CÆSAR, he swims. "Now mate, put on your best stroke!"
    Sings out faithful SMIFFY, his pilot. "One spurt,
  My SOL! Two or three more strong strokes and 'tis done;
  Our Long Swim, for the Buoy is at hand, and we've won!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC BIRDS.--M. MAUREL can sing but didn't wish to sing in Mr. ISIDORE DE TRA-LA-LARA's
new Opera, The Light of Asia. Where was TRA-LA-LARA when The Light of Asia didn't come out?
M. MAUREL seems to have said, that, if the Opera were produced this season, he'd be blowed
if he sang, and the Opera would probably be damned, theatrically and operatically speaking.
That's the Moral or MAUREL of the story. The Light of Asia mustn't be snuffed out altogether,
but it may want trimming a bit, in order to shine as brightly as TRA-LA-LARA expects it to
do next season. There's a good time coming, and good tunes too, we hope.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMENDE HONORABLE.--In making up the list of outside contributors, Mr. Punch's Private Secretary
regrets having omitted the name of JOHN HOLLINGSHEAD, the friend of the Bloomsburians, and
the determined foe of Mud Salad Market and Monopolisers. "J.H.," or, to reverse the initials,
"HONEST JOHN," will now be satisfied.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VOCES POPULI.

BANK HOLIDAY.

    SCENE--The Crystal Palace. The Nave is filled with a dense
    throng of Pleasure-seekers. Every free seat commanding the
    most distant view of a Variety Performance on the Great Stage,
    has been occupied an hour in advance. The less punctual stand
    and enjoy the spectacle of other persons' hats or bonnets.
    Gangs of Male and Female Promenaders jostle and hustle to
    their hearts' content, or perform the war-song and dance
    of the Lower-class 'ARRY, which consists in chanting "Oi
    tiddly-oi-toi; hoi-toi-oi!" to a double shuffle. Tired women
    sit on chairs and look at nothing. In the Grounds, the fancy
    of young men and maidens is lightly turning to thoughts of
    love; the first dawn of the tender passion being intimated,
    on the part of the youth, by chasing his charmer into a corner
    and partially throttling her, whereupon the maiden coyly
    conveys that his sentiments are not unreciprocated by thumping
    him between the shoulders. From time to time, two champions
    contend with fists for the smiles of beauty, who may usually
    be heard bellowing inconsolably in the background. A small
    but increasing per-centage have already had as much liquid
    refreshment as is good for them, and intend to have more.
    Altogether, the scene, if festive, might puzzle an Intelligent
    Foreigner who is more familiar with Continental ideas of
    enjoyment.

A Damsel (in a ruby plush hat with a mauve feather). Why, if they yn't got that bloomin' ole
statute down from Charin' Cross! What's 'e doin' of down 'ere, I wonder?

Her Swain (whose feather is only pink and white paper). Doin' of? Tykin' 's d'y orf--like the
rest of us are tykin' it.

The Damsel (giggling). You go on--you don't green me that w'y--a statute!

Swain. Well, 'yn't this what they call a "Statutory" 'Oliday, eh?

Damsel (in high appreciation of his humour). I'll fetch you sech a slap in a minnit! 'Ere,
let's gow on the Swissback.

Another Damsel (in a peacock-blue hat with orange pompons). See that nekked young man on the
big 'orse, ALF? It says "Castor" on the stand. 'Oo was 'e?.

Alf. Oh, I'd 'now. I dessay it'll be 'im as invented the Castor Ile.

The Damsel (disgusted). Fancy their puttin' up a monument to 'im!

Superior 'Arry (talking Music-halls to his Adored One). 'Ave you 'eard her sing "Come where
the Booze is Cheapest"?

