Suddenly finding myself the only follower of our guide, I begin to realise to its full extent
the loss of one who, up to now, has been my companion. I realise this one fact among others,
but quite sufficient of itself, namely, that if I once lose sight of M. VESQUIER in this maze
of caverns down in the depths below, I shall have the utmost difficulty in ever coming up to
the surface again. Now we are walking on a line of rails. All at once I lose sight of M. VESQUIER.
He must have turned off to the right or left--which?--and I shall see his light in the distance
when I reach the opening into the right, or left, passage.... What's that? A shriek? a howl?
a flash!--"Hé là bas!" and at a rapid pace out of the blackest darkness emerge two wine-demons
on a trolly. I have just time to reduce myself to the smallest possible compass against the
barrels, when the wine-demons brandishing a small torch-light have whizzed past,--"Ho! Ho!"--goblin
laughter in the distance, as heard in Rip Van Winkle, and described in Gabriel Grub--"Ho! Ho!"--and
before I have recovered myself, they have vanished into outer and blacker darkness, and all
around me the gloom is gloomier than ever.

"Hé! Monsieur VESQUIER!" I shout. I have taken a wrong turning; that is, I have taken some
turning or other to the right, and there is no sign of my guide. My fears have come true. My
forebodings are realised. I stumble on--over the tram-way lines--against the casks--"Hé, là
bas! Hé! M. VESQUIER!!"--O dear!--"Home Sweet Home!" What was that negro melody that now recurs
to me as a sort of singing in my ears--"Home once more! Home once more! Shall I ever see my
home once more!!"--A shout in the distance--or is it an echo--no! Is it VESQUIER! I shout in
return--then in the far distance I descry a light ... it grows bigger ... a shriek ... a wild
waving of a blazing garish torch, and again I have to compress myself against the barrels as
another trolly whizzes past at full speed, carrying two cheerful-looking, and except for that
one shout, silent demons. "Hey trolly lolly!" I cannot stay there--they have gone like a flash--and
the obscurity is becoming oppressive.... Shall I retrace my steps? It isn't a question of "shall
I,"--it is "can I"? Through how many turnings have we come? No--I should never find my way
back again. Better push on. I shout again: desperately but nervously. There is not even an
echo. And now my candle, which has been guttering and sputtering for the last few moments,
is threatening dissolution. It is the beginning of the end--of the candle-end. If the candle
goes out before I do--Heavens! but I must move very cautiously. What a subject for a Jules-Verne
novel! Ah, how I should enjoy reading about it in a story!! But as a personal experience ...
Where am I? Is it straight on? or to the left?--I think there is a left passage--or to the
right? I peer down in the hopes of seeing some evidence of life, at all events the glimmer
of a light, which may probably mean my guide. No; not a sign. Are there rats here? If so....
the candle-end is sputtering worse than ever ... it is flickering ... What's to be done?...
I shout "Hullo!" at the top of my voice. Yes, at the top of my voice, but at the bottom of
the caves. Then the question occurs to me, of what use is it to shout in English? No one will
understand me. The candle-end is making a final struggle for life. So must I. "He', là bas!"
I shout "with all my might and main," like the celebrity of the old nursery tale, who jumped
into a quickset hedge as an infallible remedy for blindness. No result. I think of the man
in the dungeon who was eaten by rats. Well-known case, but quite forget the gentleman's name.
Political prisoner probably whose offence had been "ratting"--and so his punishment was made
"to fit the crime," as Mr. GILBERT's Mikado used to observe. Why do such grimly comic reminiscences
occur to me now, when I am in so really awful a situation? So, once more I shout with desperation
in my lungs, "Hé! là--! bas!"

And--oh, the joy--oh, the rapture!--there comes back to me--"Hé, là bas! Blass the Prince of
WAILES!"

It is DAUBINET. He advances from somewhere, from an opening, the existence of which I had never
suspected.

"Here! This way! Par ici, mon ami; par ici!"

And in another minute I am with him--I am out--and so is the candle-end. Ah! I breathe again!

"The first time, I believe, that you have ever seen these caves," observes M. VESQUIER, quietly,
"which, one way and another, represent several miles of walking." Then looking at his watch,
he adds, "It is time for breakfast. You must be hungry."

I am. Hungry, but oh! so grateful! If it weren't so expensive, I should give a Champagne-window
to the Reims Cathedral, in piam memoriam of my fortunate escape. A real pane (not coloured
paper pretence) in a window would be an appropriate memorial. Or, at all events, I might give
one small "light," which, as recalling that little guttering, sputtering, candle, would be
still more appropriate.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE. (FRANZ MURRAY; Derby. Leicester and Nottingham.) It doesn't make any difference
to me whether this dainty little book was actually published at Derby or at Leicester or even
at Nottingham, noted of old for lambs. It makes right pleasant reading, and that is the chief
point. The Narcissus, about whose life (except in the matter of book-bills, by the way) we
here learn a good deal, must have been an agreeable companion--for those who allowed the lad
to have his own way, and always kept a spare £10 note handy for the humouring of his little
caprices. His wayward moods, his innocent love affairs, his wanderings, his reading, his culminating
grand passion, Mr. LE GALLIENNE renders his account of them all, and does it in a fresh and
breezy style which suits his pleasant subject admirably. There is a special charm too about
the graceful lyrics which sparkle here and there in the pretty little volume. In fact Mr. LE
GALLIENNE is an artist. I don't say a genuine artist, because he justly dislikes the qualification.

OSCAR WILDE has desisted for a space from mere paradox, and gives us (am I late in thus noticing
it?) Lord Arthur Savile's Crime. and other Stories. (London, J.R. OSGOOD, MCILWAINE & Co.)
Macte virtute, say I; the tag is old, but 'twill serve. If you want to laugh heartily, read
Lord Arthur Savile's Crime, the story of a deeply conscientious man to whom murder very properly
presents itself as a duty. Then, if you wish to laugh even more violently, read The Canterville
Ghost, in which OSCAR goes two or three better than Mr. W.S. GILBERT. I am specially thankful
to OSCAR. When he is on humour bent, he doesn't dig me in the ribs and ask me to notice what
a wonderfully funny dog he is going to be. He lets his fun take care of itself, a permission
which it uses with great discretion. Please, OSCAR, give us some more of the same sort, and
pray introduce me once more later on to the Duchess of Cheshire. If she continues to be as
delightful as she was in her sweet girlhood, I envy his Grace.

The Baron is taking it easy. He has still by his side as his constant travelling companion,
GEORGE MEREDITH's One of Our Conquerors, which has travelled to Switzerland with him, and was
only left behind at the inn when the Baron had to go by a new route up a lofty mountain. To
make this path known the Baron's assent was necessary, and he gave it. He had time, however,
to read one shilling thrilling story. The Shilling Thrilling is by two authors, WALTER POLLOCK
and ALEXANDER GALT, and is called Between the Lines. A happy title, as it enables the Baron
to recommend everyone to read between the lines. A clever sensation story for which the Baron,
now far away in his sea-girt home, thanks the two clever boys who wrote it. No more at present from

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

Peak Castle, Eagle's Nest, N.E.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOX ET PRÆTEREA NIHIL!

    "Philosophy is essentially the Voice of the Silence."--A
    Disciple of the Mahatmas.

  Voice of the Silence? Brotherhood prodigious,
    A babble-ridden age might well rejoice
  Could you but give instead of talk litigious,
    The Silence of the Voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

"REAL MEAN."--The English Churchman, who, on returning from abroad, puts all his surplusage
of Swiss silver--ten and twenty centime-pieces--into the offertory bag or plate.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE (ADAPTED) AT THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS.--"We must Vote by the Card, or Equality
will be our undoing."