The Hyksos dynasties were allied in race and sympathies with the settlers from Asia. Joseph
must have died before their expulsion, but it is probable that he saw the outbreak of the war
which ended in it, and which after five generations of conflict restored the Egyptians to independence.
The Eighteenth dynasty was founded by the native princes of Thebes, and the war against the
Asiatic stranger which had begun in Egypt was carried into Asia itself. Canaan was made an
Egyptian province, and the Egyptian empire was extended to the banks of the Euphrates.

But the conquest of Asia brought with it the introduction of Asiatic influences into the country
of the conqueror. The Pharaohs married Asiatic wives, and their courts became gradually Asiatised.
At length Amenophis IV., under the tutelage of his mother, attempted to abolish the national
religion of Egypt, and to substitute for it a sort of pantheistic monotheism, based on the
worship of the Asiatic Baal as represented by the Solar Disk. The Pharaoh transferred his capital
from Thebes to a new site farther north, now known as Tel el-Amarna, changed his own name to
Khu-n-Aten, "the Glory of the Solar Disk," and filled his court with Asiatic officials and
the adherents of the new cult. The reaction, however, soon came. The native Egyptians rose
in revolt; the foreigner fled from the valley of the Nile, and the capital of Khu-n-Aten fell
into ruin. A new dynasty, the Nineteenth, arose under Ramses I., whose grandson, Ramses II.,
reigned for sixty-seven years, and crowded Egypt with his buildings and monuments.

One of the cities he built has been shown by the excavations of Dr. Naville to have been Pa-Tum,
the Pithom of the Old Testament. Ramses II., therefore, must have been the Pharaoh of the Oppression.
The picture set before us in the first chapter of Exodus fits in exactly with the character
of his reign. The dynasty to which he belonged represented the reaction against the domination
and influence of the foreigner from Asia, and the oppression of the Israelites would naturally
have been part of its policy. Such of the Asiatics as still remained in Egypt were turned into
public serfs, and measures were taken to prevent them from multiplying so as to be dangerous
to their masters. The free spirit of the Bedâwin was broken by servitude, and every care was
used that they should be unable to help their brethren from Asia in case of another "Hyksos"
invasion. The incessant building operations of Ramses needed a constant supply of workmen,
and financial as well as political interests thus suggested that merciless corvée of the Israelites
which rendered them at once politically harmless and serviceable to the state.

In spite of all repression, however, the oppressed people continued to multiply, and eventually
escaped from their "house of bondage." The stela of Meneptah, on which the name of "Israelites"
occurs, implies that they had already been lost to sight in the desert. The other nationalities
over whom Meneptah is said to have triumphed all have the term "country" attached to their
names; the "Israelites" alone are without local habitation. Egyptian legend, as reported by
the native historian Manetho, placed the Exodus in the reign of Meneptah, and as Meneptah was
the son and successor of Ramses II., the correctness of the statement is antecedently probable.
It was in the fifth year of his reign that the Delta was attacked by a formidable combination
of foes. The Libyans threatened it on the west: on the north, bands of sea-pirates from the
coasts of Asia Minor and the islands of the Mediterranean attacked it by sea and land. A mutilated
inscription of Meneptah tells us how the tents of the invaders had been pitched on the outskirts
of the land of Goshen, within reach of the Bedâwin shepherds who fed their flocks there, and
how the troops of the Pharaoh, pressed at once by the enemy and by the disaffected population
of Goshen, had been cooped up within the walls of the great cities, afraid to venture forth.
The fate of the invasion was sealed, however, by a decisive battle in which the Egyptians almost
annihilated their foes. But the land of Goshen was left empty and desolate; the foreign tribes
who had dwelt in it fled into the wilderness under the cover of the Libyan invasion. The pressure
of the invasion had forced the Pharaoh to allow his serfs a free passage out of Egypt, quite
as much as the "signs and wonders" which were wrought by the hand of Moses. Egypt was protected
on its eastern side by a line of fortifications, and through these permission was given that
the Israelites should pass. But the permission was hardly given before it was recalled. A small
body of cavalry, not move than six hundred in number, was sent in pursuit of the fugitives,
who were loaded with the plunder they had carried away from the Egyptians. They were a disorganised
and unwarlike multitude, consisting partly of serfs, partly of women and children, partly of
stragglers from the armies of the Libyan and Mediterranean invaders. Six hundred men were deemed
sufficient either to destroy them or to reduce them once more to captivity.

But the fugitives escaped as it were by miracle. A violent wind from the east drove back the
shallow waters at the head of the Gulf of Suez, by the side of which they were encamped, and
the Israelites passed dryshod over the bed of "the sea." Before their pursuers could overtake
them, the wind had veered, and the waters returned on the Egyptian chariots. The slaves were
free at last, once more in the wilderness in which Isaac had tended his flocks, and in contact
with their kinsmen of Edom and Midian.

Moses had led them out of Egypt, and Moses now became their lawgiver. The laws which he gave
them formed them into a nation, and laid the foundations of the national faith. Henceforth
they were to be a separate people, bound together by the worship of one God, who had revealed
Himself to them under the name of Yahveh. First at Sinai, among the mountains of Seir and Paran,
and then at Kadesh-barnea, the modern 'Ain Qadîs, the Mosaic legislation was promulgated. The
first code was compiled under the shadow of Mount Sinai; its provisions were subsequently enlarged
or modified by the waters of En-Mishat, "the Spring of Judgment."

The Israelites lay hidden, as it were, in the desert for many long years, preparing themselves
for the part they were afterwards to play in the history of mankind. But from the moment of
their departure from Egypt their goal had been Canaan. They were not mere Bedâwin; they belonged
to that portion of the Semitic race which had made settlements and founded kingdoms in Moab
and Ammon and Edom, and their residence in the cultured land of the Nile had made it impossible
for them ever to degenerate into the lawless robbers of the wilderness. They were settled Bedâwin,
not Bedâwin proper; not Bedâwin by blood and descent, but Semites who had adopted the wandering
and pastoral habits of the Bedâwin tribes. They were like their brethren of Edom, who, though
they came to Egypt seeking pasturage for their cattle, had nevertheless founded at home an
elective monarchy. The true Bedâwin of the Old Testament are the Amalekites, and between the
Israelite and the Amalekite there was the difference that there is between the peasant and
the gypsy. The fact is important, and the forgetfulness of it has led more than one historian
astray.

The first attempt to invade Canaan failed. It was made from the south, from the shelter of
the block of mountains within which stood the sanctuary of Kadesh-barnea. The Israelitish forces
were disastrously defeated at Zephath, the Hormah of later days, and the invasion of the Promised
Land was postponed. The desert life had still to continue for a while. In the fastness of 'Ain
Qadîs the forces of Israel grew and matured, and a long series of legislative enactments organised
it into a homogeneous whole. At length the time came when the Israelites felt strong enough
once more to face an enemy and to win by the sword a country of their own. It was from the
east that they made their second attack. Aaron the high-priest was dead, but his brother Moses
was still their leader. The Edomites refused them a passage along the high-road of trade which
led northward from the Gulf of Aqaba; skirting Edom accordingly, they marched through a waterless
desert to the green wadis of Moab, and there pitched their camp. The Amorite kingdoms of Sihon
and Og fell before their assault. The northern part of Moab, which Sihon had conquered, was
occupied by the invaders, and the plateau of Bashan, over which Og had ruled, fell into Israelitish
hands. The invaders now prepared to cross the Jordan and advance into the highlands of Canaan.
Moses died on the summit of a Moabite mountain and his place was taken by Joshua.

Joshua was a general and not a legislator. He could win battles and destroy cities, but he
could not restore what he had destroyed, or organise his followers into a state. Jericho, which
commanded the ford across the Jordan, fell into his hands; the confederate kings of southern
Canaan were overthrown in battle, and the tribe of Ephraim, to which Joshua belonged, was established
in the mountainous region which afterwards bore its name. Henceforward the mountains of Ephraim
formed the centre and the stronghold of Israelitish power in Palestine, from whence the invading
tribes could issue forth to conquest, or to which they could retreat for shelter in case of need.

Beyond leading his people into Canaan and establishing them too firmly in its midst to be ever
dislodged, Joshua personally did but little. The conquest of Canaan was a slow process, which
was not completed till the days of the monarchy. Jerusalem was not captured till the reign
of David, Gezer was the dowry received by Solomon along with his Egyptian wife. At first the
Canaanites were treated with merciless ferocity. Their cities were burned, the inhabitants
of them massacred, and the spoil divided among the conquerors. But a time soon came when tribute
was accepted in place of extermination, when leagues were made with the Canaanitish cities,
and the Israelites intermarried with the older population of the country. As in Britain after
the Saxon conquest, the invaders settled in the country rather than in the towns, so that while
the peasantry was Israelite the townsfolk either remained Canaanite or were a mixture of the
two races.

The mixture introduced among the Israelites the religion and the beliefs, the manners and the
immoralities, of the Canaanitish people. The Mosaic legislation was forgotten; the institutions
prescribed in the wilderness were ignored. Alone at Shiloh, in the heart of Ephraim, was a
memory of the past observed; here the descendants of Aaron served in the tabernacle, and kept
alive a recollection of the Mosaic code. Here alone no image stood in the sanctuary of the
temple; the ark of the covenant was the symbol of the national God.

But the influence of Shiloh did not extend far. The age that succeeded the entrance into Canaan,
was one of anarchy and constant war. Hardly had the last effort of the Canaanites against their
invaders been overthrown on the banks of the Kishon, when a new enemy appeared in the south.
The Philistines, who had planted themselves on the sea-coast shortly before the Israelites
had invaded the inland, now turned their arms against the new-comers, and contended with them
for the possession of the country. The descendants of Jacob were already exhausted by struggle
after struggle with the populations which surrounded them. Moabites and Midianites, Ammonites
and Bedâwin, even the king of distant Mesopotamia, had sacked their villages, had overrun their
fields, and exacted tribute from the Israelitish tribes. The tribes themselves had lost coherence;
they had ranged themselves under different "judges" or "deliverers," had forgotten their common
origin and common faith, and had even plunged into interfraternal war. Joshua was scarcely
dead before the tribe of Benjamin was almost exterminated by its brethren; and a few generations
later, the warriors of Ephraim, the stalwart champion of Israel, were massacred by the Israelites
east of the Jordan. In the south, a new tribe, Judah, had arisen out of various elements--Hebrew,
Kenite, and Edomite; and it was not long before there was added to the cleavage between the
tribes on the two banks of the Jordan, the further and more lasting cleavage between Judah
and the tribes of the north. Israel was a house divided against itself, and planted in the
midst of foes.

It needed a head, a leader who should bring its discordant elements into peace and order, and
lead its united forces against the common enemy. Monarchy alone could save it from destruction.
The theocracy had failed, the authority of the high-priests and of the Law they administered
was hardly felt beyond Shiloh; an age of war and anarchy required military rather than religious
control. The Israelites were passing through the same experience as other kindred members of
the Semitic race. In Assyria the high-priests of Assur had been succeeded by kings; in southern
Arabia the high-priest had similarly been superseded by the king, and the kings of Edom had
but recently taken the place of alûphîm or "dukes."

The first attempt to found a monarchy was made by the northern tribes. Jerubbaal, the conqueror
of the Midianites, established his power among the mixed Hebrew and Canaanite inhabitants of
Ophrah and Shechem, and his son Abimelech by a Canaanitish wife received the title of king.
But the attempt was premature. The kingdom of Manasseh passed away with Abimelech; the other
tribes were not yet ready to acknowledge the supremacy of a chieftain who was not sprung from
themselves, and Abimelech, moreover, was half-Canaanitish by descent.

The pressure of Philistine conquest at last forced the Israelites with a common voice to "demand
a king." Reinforced by bodies of their kinsfolk from Krete and the islands of the Greek seas,
the Philistines poured over the frontier of Judah, plundering and destroying as they went.
At first they were contented with raids; but the raids gradually passed into a continuous warfare
and a settled purpose to conquer Canaan, and reduce it to tribute from one end to the other.
The Israelitish forces were annihilated in a decisive battle, the ark of the covenant was taken
by the heathen, and the two sons of the high-priest perished on the field of battle. The Philistine
army marched northward into the heart of the mountains of Ephraim, the sanctuary of Shiloh
was destroyed and its priesthood dispersed. It was not long before the Philistine domination
was acknowledged throughout the Israelitish territory on the western side of the Jordan, and
Canaan became Palestine, "the land of the Philistines."

In the more inaccessible parts of Benjamin, indeed, a few Israelites still maintained a fitful
independence, and Samuel, the representative of the traditions of Shiloh, was allowed to judge
his own people, and preside over a Naioth or "monastery" of dervish-like prophets under the
eye of a Philistine garrison. Israel seemed about to disappear from among the nations of the world.

But it had not yet wholly forgotten that it was a single people, the descendants of a common
forefather, sharers in a common history, and above all, worshippers of the same God. In their
extremity the Israelites called for a king. Saul, the Benjamite of Gibeah, was elected, and
events soon proved the wisdom of the choice. Jabesh-gilead was rescued from the Ammonite king,
the Philistine garrisons were driven out of the centre of the country, and, for a time at least,
a large part of the Israelitish territory was cleared of its enemies. Saul was able to turn
his arms against the Amalekite marauders of the desert, as well as the princes of Zobah to
the north-east of Ammon.

But the Philistine war still continued. Saul had incorporated in his body-guard a young shepherd
of Beth-lehem in Judah of the name of David. David showed himself a brave and skilful soldier,
and quickly rose to high command in the Hebrew army, and to be the son-in-law of Saul. His
victories over the Philistines were celebrated in popular songs, and the king began to suspect
him of aiming at the throne. He was forced to fly for his life, and to hide among the mountain
fastnesses of Judah, where his boyhood had been spent. Here he became a brigand-chief, outlaws
and adventurers gathering around him, and exacting food from the richer landowners. Saul pursued
him in vain; David slipped out of his hands time after time, thanks to the nature of the country
in which he had taken refuge; and the only result of the pursuit was to open the road once
more to Philistine invasion. Meanwhile David and his followers had left the Israelitish territory,
and offered their services to Achish of Gath; the Philistine prince enrolled them in his body-guard
and settled them in the town of Ziklag.

Saul and the priests were now at open war. Samuel, perhaps naturally, had quarrelled with the
king who had superseded his authority, and had espoused the cause of David. We are told, indeed,
that he had anointed David as king in the place of Saul. When, therefore, David escaped from
the court, Saul accused the Shilonite priests who were established at Nob of intentionally
aiding the rebel. The high-priest vainly protested their innocence, but the furious king refused
to listen, and the priests were massacred in cold blood. Abiathar, the son of the murdered
high-priest, alone escaped to David to tell the tale. He carried with him the sacred ephod
through which the will of Yahveh was made known, and from henceforth the influence of the priesthood
was thrown against the king.

Saul had lost his best general, who had gone over to the enemy; he had employed his troops
in hunting a possible rival through the Judæan wilds when they ought to have been guarding
the frontier against the national foe, and the whole force of Israelitish religion had been
turned against him. There was little cause for wonder, therefore, that the Philistine armies
again marched into the Israelitish kingdom, and made their way northward along the coast into
the plain of Jezreel. A battle on the slopes of Jezreel decided the fate of Israel. The Hebrew
army was cut to pieces, and Saul and his sons were slain. One only survived, Esh-baal, too
young or too feeble to take part in the fight. Esh-baal was carried across the Jordan by Abner
and the relics of the Israelitish forces, and there proclaimed king at Mahanaim. The Philistines
became undisputed masters of Israel west of the Jordan, while their tributary vassal, David,
was proclaimed King of Judah at Hebron. His nephew Joab was made commander-in-chief.

War soon broke out between David and Esh-baal. Esh-baal grew continually weaker, and his general
Abner intrigued with David to betray him into the hands of the Jewish king. Abner, however,
was slain by Joab while in the act of carrying out his treason, but Esh-baal was murdered shortly
afterwards by two of his servants. David declared himself his successor, and claimed rule over
all Israel.

This brought him into conflict with his Philistine overlords. It was equivalent to revolt,
and the Philistine army swept the lowlands of Judah. David fled from Hebron and took refuge
in his old retreat. Here he organised his forces; the Philistines were defeated in battle after
battle, and David not only succeeded in driving them out of Judah and Israel, but in carrying
the war into their own country. The Philistine cities were conquered, and soldiers from Gath,
where David had himself once served as a mercenary, were drafted into the body-guard of the
Hebrew sovereign.

Before the Philistine war was over, Jerusalem had fallen into David's hands. The stronghold
of the Jebusites was one of the last of the Canaanitish cities to surrender to the Israelites.
Its older inhabitants were allowed to live in it side by side with colonists from Judah and
Benjamin. The city itself was made the capital of the kingdom. Its central position, its natural
strength, and its independence of the history of any special tribe, all combined to justify
the choice. Here David built his palace, and planned the erection of a temple to Yahveh.

Meanwhile the kingdom of Israel was passing into an empire. Joab and his veterans gained victory
after victory, and the Hebrew army became what the Assyrian army was in later days, the most
highly disciplined and irresistible force in western Asia. Moab and Ammon were subdued; the
Aramaic kinglets to the north-east were made tributaries, and the kingdom of Zobah, which had
risen on the ruins of the Hittite power, was overthrown. The limits of David's rule were extended
to the banks of the Euphrates, and the Syrians on either side of the river were utterly crushed.
Even Edom, which had successfully defied the Pharaohs in the days of Egyptian greatness, was
compelled to submit to the Jewish conqueror; its male population was mercilessly massacred,
and its ports on the Gulf of Suez fell into Israelitish hands. In the north Hamath made alliance
with the new power that had arisen in the Oriental world, while Hiram of Tyre was glad to call
himself the friend of the Israelitish king, and to furnish him with skilled workmen and articles
of luxury.

The latter years of David were troubled by revolts which had their origin partly in the polygamy
in which he had indulged, partly in the discontent of a people still imperfectly welded together,
and restless under military conscription. His son Solomon secured his throne by putting to
death all possible rivals or opponents, including the grey-haired Joab. Solomon was cultured
and well-educated, but his culture was selfish, and his extravagance knew no bounds. Palaces
were built at Jerusalem in imitation of those of Phoenicia or Egypt, and Phoenician architects
and artisans erected there a sumptuous temple in honour of the national God. Trade was encouraged
and developed: the possession of the Edomite seaports gave Solomon the command of the Arabian
trade, while his alliance with Hiram opened to him the harbours of the Mediterranean coast.
But the wealth which David had accumulated, the tribute of the conquered provinces, and the
trading monopolies of the king himself did not suffice for the extravagance of his expenditure,
and heavy fiscal burdens had to be laid on the Israelitish tribes. Disaffection grew up everywhere
except in Judah, where the king resided, and where the wealth raised elsewhere was spent.

Revolts broke out in Edom and the north. Garrisons, indeed, were planted in Zobah, which secured
the caravan road through Tadmor or Palmyra to the Euphrates; but Damascus was lost, and became
in a few years a formidable adversary of Israel. The death of Solomon was the signal for a
revolt in Palestine itself. The northern tribes under Jeroboam separated from Judah and established
a kingdom of their own, while Judah and Benjamin remained faithful to the house of David and
to the capital, which lay on the frontier of both. The Levites also naturally attached themselves
to the kingdom which contained the great national sanctuary, and to the royal family whose
chapel it was. The disruption of the monarchy necessarily brought with it the fall of the empire;
Moab, however, continued to be tributary to the northern kingdom and Edom to that of Judah.

Five years after the accession of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, the kingdom of Judah seemed
in danger of perishing altogether. Shishak, the Egyptian Pharaoh, invaded the country and sacked
Jerusalem itself. But Jeroboam lost the opportunity thus afforded him of extending his rule
over the south; his own territories had been partially overrun by the Egyptians, and he was
probably not in a position to commence a war. Judah had time to recover; the walls of Jerusalem
were rebuilt, and the Arabian trade soon supplied it with fresh resources.

The long and prosperous reign of Asa, the grandson of Rehoboam, placed the line of David on
a solid foundation. The Jewish kingdom was compact; its capital was central, and was not only
a strongly-fortified fortress, but also an ancient and venerable sanctuary. As time went on
feelings of respect and affection gathered round the royal house; the people of Judah identified
it with themselves, and looked back with pride and regret to the glorious days of David and
Solomon. Religion, moreover, lent its sanction to the Davidic dynasty. The Levitical priesthood
had its centre in the temple which had been built by Solomon, and was, as it were, the private
chapel of his descendants; here were preserved the rites and traditions of the Mosaic Law,
and the ark of the covenant between Israel and its God. The northern kingdom, on the contrary,
had none of these elements of stability. The first king was a rebel, who had no glorious past
behind him, no established priesthood to support his throne, no capital even, around which
all his subjects could rally. The sword had given him his crown, and the sword was henceforth
the arbiter of his kingdom. The conservative forces which were strong in Judah were absent
in the north; there the army became more and more powerful, and its generals dethroned princes
and established short-lived dynasties. Northern Israel, moreover, was not homogeneous; the
tribes on the two sides of the Jordan were never welded together like the inhabitants of Judah,
and the divergence of interests that had once existed between them was never wholly forgotten.

Israel perished while Judah survived. Dynasty after dynasty had arisen in it; its capital had
been shifted from time to time; it did not even possess a religious centre. Before a line of
kings had time to win the loyalty of the people they were swept away by revolution, and the
army became the dominating power in the state. There was no body of priests to preserve the
memory of the Mosaic Law and insist upon its observance, and the prophets who took their place
protested in vain against the national apostasy. Alliance with the neighbouring kingdom of
Phoenicia brought with it the worship of the Phoenician Baal, and Yahveh was forsaken for a
foreign god. In B.C. 722 Samaria, the later capital of the country, was taken by the Assyrian
king Sargon, and northern Israel ceased to be a nation.

Judah, on the other hand, successfully defied the Assyrian power. The invasion of Sennacherib
was rolled back from the walls of Jerusalem, and though the Jewish kings paid tribute to Nineveh,
they were left in possession of their territories. Edom, indeed, had long since been lost,
and with it the trade with the Arabian seas, but the Philistines continued to acknowledge the
supremacy of Judah, and commercial relations were kept up with Egypt. It was not until the
Babylonian empire of Nebuchadrezzar had arisen on the ruins of that of Assyria that Jerusalem
and its temple were destroyed, and the Davidic dynasty passed away. But they had accomplished
their work; a nation had been created which through exile and disaster still maintained its
religion and its characteristics, and was prepared, when happier days should come, to return
again to its old home, to rebuild the temple, and carry out all the ordinances of its faith.
From henceforth Judah realised its mission as a peculiar people, separated from the rest of
the world, whose instructor in religion it was to be. More and more it ceased to be a nation
and became a race--a race, moreover, which had its roots in a common religious history, a common
faith, and a common hope. Israel according to the flesh became Israel according to the spirit.

[Footnote 1: See Pinches in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, July 1897. In a tablet
belonging to a period long before that of Abraham, Isma-ilu or Ishmael is given as the name
of an "Amorite" slave from Palestine (Thureau-Dangin, Tablettes chaldéennes inédites, p. 10).]

CHAPTER II

CANAAN

Canaan was the inheritance which the Israelites won for themselves by the sword. Their ancestors
had already settled in it in patriarchal days. Abraham "the Hebrew" from Babylonia had bought
in it a burying-place near Hebron; Jacob had purchased a field near Shechem, where he could
water his flocks from his own spring. It was the "Promised Land" to which the serfs of the
Pharaoh in Goshen looked forward when they should again become free men and find a new home
for themselves.

Canaan had ever been the refuge of the Asiatic population of Egypt, the goal at which they
aimed when driven out of the land of the Nile. The Hyksos conquerors from Asia had retreated
to Jerusalem when the native Egyptians recovered their independence and had expelled them from
their seats in the Delta. Though Moses had assured the Pharaoh that all the Israelites needed
was to go a short journey of three days into the wilderness, and there sacrifice to their God,
it was well understood that the desert was not to be the end of their pilgrimage. Canaan, and
Canaan only, was the destined country they had in view.

In the early inscriptions of Babylonia, Canaan is included in the rest of Syria under the general
title of "the land of the Amorites." The Amorites were at the time the dominant population
on the Mediterranean coast of western Asia, and after them accordingly the whole country received
its name. The "land of the Amorites" had been overrun by the armies of Babylonia at a very
remote period, and had thus come under the influence of Babylonian culture. As far back as
the reigns of Sargon of Akkad and his son Naram-Sin (B.C. 3800), three campaigns had laid it
at the feet of the Chaldæan monarch, and Palestine and Syria became a province of the Babylonian
empire. Sargon erected an image of himself by the shore of the sea, and seems even to have
received tribute from Cyprus. Colonies of "Amorite" or Canaanitish merchants settled in Babylonia
for the purposes of trade, and there obtained various rights and privileges; and a cadastral
survey of southern Babylonia made at the time mentions "the governor of the land of the Amorites."

The Amorites, however, though they were the dominant people of Syria, were not its original
inhabitants; nor, it is probable, did they even form the largest part of its population. They
were essentially the inhabitants of the mountains, as we are told in the Book of Numbers (xiii.
29), and appear to have come from the west. We have learnt a good deal about them from the
Egyptian monuments, where the "Amurru" or Amorites are depicted with that fidelity to nature
which characterised the art of ancient Egypt. They belonged to the white race, and, like other
members of the white race, were tall in stature and impatient of the damp heat of the plains.
Their beard and eye-brows are painted red, their hair a light red-brown, while their eyes are
blue. The skin is a sunburnt white, the nose straight and regular, the forehead high, and the
lips thin. They wore whiskers and a pointed beard, and dressed in long robes furnished with
a sort of cape. Their physical characteristics are those of the Libyan neighbours of the Egyptians
on the west, the forefathers of the fair-skinned and blue-eyed Kabyles or Berbers who inhabit
the mountains of northern Africa to-day. Anthropologists connect these Libyans with the Kelts
of our own islands. At one time, it would seem, a Kelto-Libyan race existed, which spread along
the northern coast of Africa to western Europe and the British Isles. The Amorites would appear
to have been an eastern offshoot of the same race.

Wherever they went, the members of the race buried their dead in rude stone cairns or cromlechs,
the dolmens of the French antiquarians. We find them in Britain and France, in the Spanish
peninsula, and the north of Africa. They are also found in Palestine, more especially in that
portion of it which was the home of the Amorites. The skulls found in the cairns are for the
most part of the dolichocephalic or long-headed type; this too is the shape of skull characteristic
of the modern Kabyle, and it has been portrayed for us by the Egyptian artists in the pictures
of their Amorite foes.

In the days of the Egyptian artists--the age of the Eighteenth and two following dynasties
(B.C. 1600-1200)--the special seat of the Amorites was the mountainous district immediately
to the north of Palestine. But Amorite kingdoms were established elsewhere on both sides of
the Jordan. Not long before the Israelitish invasion, the Amorite king Sihon had robbed Moab
of its territory and founded his power on the ruins of that of the Egyptian empire. Farther
north, in the plateau of Bashan, another Amorite king, Og, had his capital, while Amorite tribes
were settled on the western side of the Jordan, in the mountains of southern Canaan, where
the tribe of Judah subsequently established itself. We even hear of Amorites in the mountain-block
of Kadesh-barnea, in the desert south of Canaan; and the Amorite type of face, as it has been
depicted for us on the monuments of Egypt, may still be often observed among the Arab tribes
of the district between Egypt and Palestine.

Jerusalem, Ezekiel tells us, had an Amorite as well as a Hittite parentage, and Jacob declares
that he had taken his heritage at Shechem out of the hand of the Amorite with his sword and
bow. It must be remembered, however, that the term "Amorite" is sometimes used in the Old Testament
in its Babylonian sense, as denoting an inhabitant of Canaan, whatever might be the race to
which he belonged; we cannot always infer from it the nationality or race of those to whom
it is applied. Moreover, individual branches of the Amorite stock had names of their own. In
the north they were known as Hivites, at Hebron they were called Anakim, at Jerusalem they
were Jebusites. The Amorite kings of Bashan are described as Rephaim, a word which the Authorised
Version translates "giants." It was only on the northern frontier of Palestine and in the kingdom
of Sihon that the name of "Amorite" alone was used.

The Babylonian conquests introduced into Canaan the government and law, the writing and literature,
of Babylonian civilisation. The Babylonian language even made its way to the west, and was
taught, along with the script, in the schools which were established in imitation of those
of Chaldæa. Babylonian generals and officials lived in Palestine and administered its affairs,
and an active trade was carried on between the Euphrates and the Mediterranean coast. The trade-road
ran through Mesopotamia past the city of Harran, and formed a link between the Mediterranean
and the Persian Gulf.

From an early date libraries had existed in Babylonia stored with the literature of the country.
Similarly, libraries now grew up in "the land of the Amorites," and the clay tablets with which
they were filled made known to the west the legends and records of Chaldæa. Amorite culture
was modelled on that of Babylonia.

Babylonian influence lasted for centuries in western Asia. In the age of Abraham the Amorites
still obeyed the suzerainty of the Babylonian kings. Khammurabi, the Amraphel of the Book of
Genesis, calls himself king of the country of the Amorites as well as of Babylon, and his great-grandson
does the same. At a later date Babylonia itself was conquered by a foreign line of kings, and
Canaan recovered its independence. But this was of no long duration. Thothmes III., of the
Eighteenth Egyptian dynasty (B.C. 1503-1449), made it a province of Egypt, and the Amorites
were governed by Egyptian prefects and commissioners. The cuneiform tablets found at Tel el-Amarna
in Upper Egypt give us a vivid picture of its condition at the close of the Eighteenth dynasty.
The Egyptian power was falling to pieces, and Palestine was threatened by Hittite invaders
from the north. The native governors were fighting with one another or intriguing with the
enemies of Egypt, while all the time protesting their loyalty to the Pharaoh. Ebed-Asherah
and his son Aziru governed the Amorites in the north, and the prefect of Phoenicia sends bitter
complaints to the Egyptian court of their hostility to himself and their royal master. Aziru,
however, was an able ruler. He succeeded in clearing himself from the charge of complicity
with the Hittites against whom he had been sent, as well as in getting the better of his Phoenician
rival. The latter disappears from history, while the Amorites are allowed to settle undisturbed
in Zemar and other cities of inland Phoenicia.

Under Ramses II. of the Nineteenth dynasty, Canaan still yielded a reluctant obedience to Egypt.
In the troubles which had followed the fall of the Eighteenth dynasty, it had shaken itself
free from foreign authority, but had been reconquered by Seti I., the father of Ramses. Egyptian
authority was re-established even on the eastern side of the Jordan; but it did not continue
for long. Ramses was hardly dead before Egypt was invaded by Libyans from the west and robber
hordes from the Greek seas, and though the invasion was ultimately beaten back, its strength
had been exhausted in the struggle. The Egyptian empire in Canaan passed away for ever, and
the Canaanites were left free to govern themselves.

The kingdom of Sihon was one of the results of this ending of Egyptian rule. The Amorites became
a power once more. A few years later Egypt was again attacked by armed invaders from the north.
The assailants poured into it both by sea and land. Fleets of ships filled with Philistines
and Achæans and other northern tribes entered the mouths of the Nile, while a vast army simultaneously
attacked it by land. The army, we are told, had encamped in "the land of the Amorites," and
they carried with them on their farther march recruits from the countries through which they
passed. The Amorite "chief" himself was among those who followed the barbarians to Egypt, eager
for the spoils of the wealthiest country in the ancient world.

Ramses III. of the Twentieth dynasty was now on the throne. He succeeded in rolling back the
wave of invasion, in gaining a decisive victory over the combined military and naval forces
of the enemy, and in pursuing them to the frontiers of Asia itself. Gaza, the key to the military
road which ran along the sea-board of Palestine, fell once more into Egyptian hands; and the
Egyptian troops overran the future Judah, occupying the districts of Jerusalem and Hebron,
and even crossing the Jordan. But no permanent conquest was effected; Ramses retired again
to Egypt, and for more than two centuries no more Egyptian armies found their way into Canaan.
Gaza and the neighbouring cities became the strongholds of the Philistine pirates, and effectually
barred the road to Asia.

The campaign of Ramses III. in southern Palestine must have taken place when the Israelites
were still in the desert. Between the two invasions of Egypt by the barbarians of the north,
there was no great interval of time. The Exodus, which had been due in part to the pressure
of the first of them in the reign of Meneptah, was separated by only a few years from the capture
of Hebron by Caleb, which must have occurred after its evacuation by the Egyptian troops. The
great movement which brought the populations of Asia Minor and the Greek islands upon Canaan
and the Nile, and which began in the age of the Exodus, was over before the children of Israel
had emerged from the wilds of the desert.

In the Old Testament the Amorites are constantly associated with another people, the Hittites.
When Ezekiel ascribes an Amorite parentage to Jerusalem, he ascribes to it at the same time
a Hittite parentage as well. The same interlocking of Amorite and Hittite that meets us in
the Bible, meets us also on the monuments of Egypt. Here, too, we are told that Kadesh on the
Orontes, the Hittite capital, was "in the land of the Amorites." It was, in fact, on the shores
of the Lake of Homs, in the midst of the district over which the Amorites claimed rule.

The Hittites were intruders from the north. The Egyptian monuments have shown us what they
were like. Their skin was yellow, their eyes and hair were black, their faces were beardless.
Square and prominent cheeks, a protrusive nose, with retreating chin and forehead and lozenge-shaped
eyes, gave them a Mongoloid appearance. They were not handsome to look upon, but the accuracy
of their portraiture by the artists of Egypt is confirmed by their own monuments. The heads
represented on the Egyptian monuments are repeated, feature by feature, in the Hittite sculptures.
Ugly as they were, they were not the caricatures of an enemy, but the truthful portraits of
a people whose physical characteristics are still found, according to Sir Charles Wilson, in
the modern population of Cappadocia.

The Hittites wore their hair in three plaits, which fell over the back like the pigtail of
a Chinaman. They dressed in short tunics over which a long robe was worn, which in walking
left one leg bare. Their feet were shod with boots with turned-up ends, a sure indication of
their northern origin. Such boots, in fact, are snow-shoes, admirably adapted to the inhabitants
of the mountain-ranges of Asia Minor, but wholly unsuited for the hot plains of Syria. When,
therefore, on the walls of the Ramesseum we find the Theban artists depicting the defenders
of Kadesh on the Orontes with them, we may conclude that the latter had come from the colder
north just as certainly as we may conclude, from the use of similar shoes among the Turks,
that they also have come from a northern home. In the Hittite system of hieroglyphic writing,
the boot with upturned end occupies a prominent place.

When the Tel el-Amarna tablets were written (B.C. 1400), the Hittites were advancing on the
Egyptian province of Syria. Tunip, or Tennib, near Aleppo, had fallen, and both Amorites and
Canaanites were intriguing with the invader. The highlands of Cappadocia and the ranges of
the Taurus seem to have been the cradle of the Hittite race. Here they first came into contact
with Babylonian culture, which they adopted and modified, and from hence they poured down upon
the Aramæan cities of the south. Carche-mish, now Jerablûs, which commanded the chief ford
across the Euphrates, fell into their hands, and for many centuries remained one of their capitals.
But it was not until the stormy period which signalised the overthrow of the Eighteenth Egyptian
dynasty, that the Hittites succeeded in establishing themselves as far south as Kadesh on the
Orontes. The long war, however, waged with them by Ramses II. prevented them from advancing
farther; when peace was made at last between them and the Egyptians, both sides had been exhausted
by the struggle, and the southern limit of Hittite power had been fixed.

The kings of Kadesh had, however, been at the head of a veritable empire; they were able to
summon allies and vassals from Asia Minor, and it is probable that their rule extended to the
banks of the Halys in Cappadocia, where Hittite remains have been found. Military roads connected
the Hittite cities of Cappadocia with the rest of Asia Minor, and monuments of Hittite conquest
or invasion have been met with as far west as the neighbourhood of Smyrna. These monuments
are all alike distinguished by the same peculiar style of art, and by the same system of pictorial
writing. The writing, unfortunately, has not yet been deciphered, but as the same groups of
characters occur wherever an inscription in it is found, we may infer that the language concealed
beneath it is everywhere one and the same.

When the Assyrians first became acquainted with the West, the Hittites were the ruling people
in Syria. As, therefore, the Babylonians had included all the inhabitants of Syria and Palestine,
whatever might be their origin, under the general name of Amorites, the Assyrians included
them under the name of Hittites. Even the Israelites and Ammonites are called "Hittites" by
an Assyrian king. It is possible that traces of this vague and comprehensive use of the name
are to be met with in the Old Testament; indeed, it has been suggested that the Hittites, or
"sons of Heth," from whom Abraham bought the cave of Machpelah, owed their name to this cause.
In the later books of the Hebrew Scriptures the Hittites are described as a northern population,
in conformity with the Egyptian and Assyrian accounts.

The Hittites of Hebron, however, may really have been an offshoot of the Hittite nations of
the north. The "king of the Hittites" accompanied the northern barbarians when they invaded
Egypt in the reign of Ramses III., and Hittite bands may similarly have followed the Hyksos
conquerors of Egypt several centuries before. One of these bands may easily have settled on
its way at Hebron, which, as we are told, was built seven years before Zoan, the Hyksos capital.
At Karnak, moreover, an Egyptian artist has represented the people of Ashkelon with faces of
a Hittite type, while Ezekiel bears witness to the presence of a Hittite element in the founders
of Jerusalem. But the fact that Thothmes III. in the century before Moses calls the Hittite
land of the north "the Greater," is the best proof we can have that there was a Hittite colony
elsewhere, which was well known to the Egyptian scribes. The "Greater" implies the Less, and
the only Lesser Hittite land with which we are acquainted is that of which the Book of Genesis
speaks.

So far as we can judge from the evidence of proper names, the Hittites belonged to a race which
was spread from the Halys in Asia Minor to the shores of Lake Urumiyeh. The early inhabitants
of Armenia, who have left us inscriptions in the cuneiform character, also belonged to it.
So also did the people of Comagênê, and it seems probable that the ruling class in northern
Mesopotamia did the same. Here there existed a kingdom which at one time exercised a considerable
amount of power, and whose princesses were married to the Pharaohs of the Eighteenth dynasty.
This was the kingdom of Aram Naharaim, called Naharina in the Egyptian texts, Mitanni by its
own inhabitants. The language of Mitanni was of a very peculiar type, as we learn from the
tablets of Tel el-Amarna, one or two of which are written in it. Like the Hittites in Syria,
the Mitannians appear to have descended from the north upon the cities of the Semites, and
to have established themselves in them. Mitanni was at the height of its influence in the sixteenth
and fifteenth centuries before our era; its armies made their way even into Canaan, and the
Canaanite princes intrigued from time to time against their Egyptian masters, not only with
the Babylonians and Hittites, but also with the kings of Mitanni.

Before the time of David the power and almost the name of Mitanni had passed away. The Hittite
empire also had been broken up, and henceforth we hear only of "the kings of the Hittites"
who ruled over a number of small states. The Semites of Syria had succeeded in rolling back
the wave of Hittite conquest, and in absorbing their Hittite conquerors. The capture of Carchemish
by Sargon of Assyria in B.C. 717 marks the end of Hittite dominion south of the Taurus.

But the Hittite invasion had produced lasting results. It had severed the Semites of Assyria
and Babylonia from those of the West, and planted the barrier of a foreign population on the
highroad that ran from Nineveh to the Mediterranean. The tradition of Babylonian culture in
western Asia was broken; new influences began to work there, and the cuneiform system of writing
to be disused. Room was given for the introduction of a new form of script, and the Phoenician
alphabet, in which the books of the Old Testament were written, made its way into Canaan. When
Joshua crosses the Jordan there is no longer any trace in Palestine of either Babylonian or
Egyptian domination.

Like the Amorites and the Amorite tribe of Jebusites at Jerusalem, the Hittites were mountaineers.[2]
The hot river-valleys and the sea-coast were inhabited by Canaanites. Canaan is supposed to
mean "the lowlands" of the Mediterranean shore; here the Canaanites had built their cities,
and ventured in trading ships on the sea. But they had also settled in the inland plains, and
more especially in the valley of the Jordan. The plain of Jezreel formed, as it were, the centre
of the Canaanitish kingdoms.

The Canaanites were Semites in speech, if not in blood. The language of Canaan is what we term
Hebrew, and must have been adopted either by the Israelites or by the patriarchs their forefathers.
Between the dialect of the Phoenician inscriptions and that of the Old Testament the difference
is but slight, and the tablets of Tel el-Amarna carry back the record of this Canaanitish speech
to the century before the Exodus.

In person, as we learn from the Egyptian monuments, the Canaanites resembled their descendants,
the modern inhabitants of Palestine. They belonged to the white race, but had black hair and
eyes. They dressed in brilliantly-coloured garments, stained with that purple or scarlet dye
in search of which they explored the coasts of the Greek seas, and which was extracted from
the shell of the murex. On their feet they wore high-laced sandals; their hair was bound with
a fillet. Their skill as sailors was famous throughout the Oriental world; the cities of the
Phoenician coast already possessed fleets of ships in the age of the Eighteenth Egyptian dynasty,
and their merchants carried on a maritime trade with the islands of the Ægean and the coast
of Africa. Before the time of Solomon their vessels had found their way to Tartessus in Spain,
perhaps even to Cadiz, and the alliance between Hiram and the Israelitish king enabled the
Tyrians to import gold and other precious things from Africa and Arabia through the ports of
southern Edom. The Tel el-Amarna letters refer to the riches of Tyre, and excavations on the
site of Lachish have brought to light amber beads ef the same age, which indicate intercourse
with the Baltic. It is possible that the tin which was needed in such large quantities for
the bronze tools and weapons of the ancient East was derived from Cornwall; if so, it would
have been brought, like the amber, across Europe along the road which ended at the extremity
of the Adriatic Gulf.

The wealth of the Canaanitish merchants was great. The spoils carried away to Egypt by Thothmes
III. after his conquest of Palestine are truly astonishing. Beautiful vases of gold and silver,
artistically moulded bronzes, furniture carved out of ebony and cedar and inlaid with ivory
and precious stones, were among the booty. Iron, which was found in the hills, was freely used,
and made into armour, weapons, and chariots. It was "the chariots of iron" which prevented
the Israelites from capturing and sacking the cities of the plains. Wealth brought with it
a corresponding amount of luxury, which to the simpler Hebrews of the desert seemed extravagant
and sinful. It was associated with a licentiousness which Canaanitish religion encouraged rather
than repressed.

The religion was a nature-worship. The supreme deity was addressed as Baal or "Lord," and was
adored in the form of the Sun. And as the Sun can be baleful as well as beneficent, parching
up the soil and blasting the seed as well as warming it into life, so too Baal was regarded
sometimes as the friend and helper of man, sometimes as a fierce and vengeful deity who could
be appeased only by blood. In times of national or individual distress his worshippers were
called upon to sacrifice to him their firstborn; nothing less costly could turn away from them
the anger of their god. By the side of Baal was his colourless wife, a mere reflection of the
male divinity, standing in the same state of dependence towards him as the woman stood to the
man. It was only the unmarried goddess, Ashêrah as she was called by the Canaanites, who had
a personality of her own. And since Ashêrah came in time to be superseded by Ashtoreth, who
was herself of Babylonian origin, it is probable that the idea of separate individuality connected
with Ashêrah. was due to the influence of Babylonian culture. Ashêrah was the goddess of fertility,
and though the fertility of the earth depends upon the Sun, it was easy to conceive of it as
an independent principle.

The name Baal was merely a title. It was applied to the supreme deity of each city or tribe,
by whatever special name he might otherwise be known. There were as many Baals or Baalim as
there were states or cults. Wherever a high-place was erected, a Baal was worshipped. His power
did not extend beyond the district in which he was adored and to which he was territorially
attached. The Baal of Lebanon was distinct from the Baal of Tyre or Sidon, though in every
case the general conception that was formed of him was the same. It was the attributes of particular
Baalim which differed; Baal was everywhere the Sun-god, but in one place he showed himself
under one shape, in another place under another. The goddesses followed the analogy of the
gods. Over against the Baalim or Baals stood the Ashtaroth or Ashtoreths. The Canaanitish goddess
manifested herself in a multitude of forms.

As the firstborn was sacrificed to the god, so chastity was sacrificed to the goddess. The
temples of Ashtoreth were crowded with religious prostitutes, and the great festivals of Canaan
were orgies of licentious sin. It was a combination of nature-worship with the luxury that
was born of wealth.

The Canaanites of Phoenicia believed that they had originally migrated from the Persian Gulf.
In Canaan, at all events, according to the Book of Genesis, the "Fishers" city of Sidon was
the first that was built. But Tyre also, a few miles to the north of it, claimed considerable
antiquity. The temple of Melkarth or Melek-Kiryath, "the King of the City," the name under
which the Baal of Tyre was worshipped, had been built on the island-rock twenty-three centuries
before the time of Herodotus, or B.C. 2700. Gebal or Byblos, still farther to the north, had
been renowned for its sanctity from immemorial times. Here stood the sanctuary of Baalith,
the "lady" of Gebal, of whom we hear in the tablets of Tel el-Amarna. Still farther north were
other cities, of which the most famous was Arvad, with its harbour and fleet. Southward were
Dor and Joppa, the modern Jaffa, while inland were Zemar and Arqa, mentioned in the Book of
Genesis and the Tel el-Amarna correspondence, but which ceased to be remembered after the age
of the Exodus. Before the Israelites entered Canaan they had been captured by the Amorites,
and had passed into insignificance.

Between the Canaanites of the coast and the Canaanites of the interior a difference grew up
in the course of centuries. This was caused by the sea-trade in which the cities on the coast
engaged. The "Phoenicians," as they were termed, on the coast became sailors and merchants,
while their brethren farther inland were content to live on the products of agriculture and
import from abroad the luxuries they required. While Tyre and Sidon were centres of manufacture
and maritime trade, Megiddo and Hazor remained agricultural. After the Hebrew invasion the
difference between them became greater: Phoenicia continued independent; the Canaanites of
the interior were extirpated by the Israelites or paid tribute to their conquerors. Little
by little the latter amalgamated with the conquered race; towns like Shechem contained a mixed
population, partly Hebrew and partly native; and the Israelites adopted the manners and religion
of the Canaanites, worshipping at the old high-places of the country, and adoring the Baalim
and Ashtaroth. The Amorite heads depicted at Karnak above the names of the places captured
by Shishak in Judah show how little the population of southern Palestine had changed up to
the time of Solomon's death.

Canaan was ruined by its want of union. The Canaanitish cities were perpetually fighting with
one another; even the strong hand of the Pharaoh in the days of Egyptian supremacy could not
keep them at peace. Now and again, indeed, they united, generally under a foreign leader, but
the union was brought about by the pressure of foreign attack, and was never more than temporary.
There was no lack of patriotism among them, it is true; but the patriotism was confined to
the particular city or state to which those who were inspired by it belonged. The political
condition of Canaan resembled its religious condition; as each district had its separate Baal,
so too it had its separate political existence. If there were many Baals, there were also many
kinglets.

The fourteenth century B.C. was a turning-point in the history of Canaan. It witnessed the
fall of the Egyptian supremacy which had succeeded the supremacy of Babylonia; it also witnessed
the severance of western Asia from the kingdoms on the Euphrates and Tigris, and the consequent
end of the direct influence of Babylonian culture. The Hittites established themselves in Syria
"in the land of the Amorites," while at the same time other invaders threatened Canaan itself.
The Israelites made their way across the Jordan; the Philistines seized the southern portion
of the coast.

The Philistine invasion preceded that of the Israelites by a few years. The Philistines were
sea-robbers, probably from the island of Krete. Zephaniah calls them "the nation of the Cherethites"
or Kretans, and their features, as represented on the Egyptian monuments, are of a Greek or
Aryan type. They have the straight nose, high forehead, and thin lips of the European. On their
heads they wear a curious kind of pleated cap, fastened round the chin by a strap. They are
clad in a pair of drawers and a cuirass of leather, while their arms consist of a small round
shield with two handles, a spear, and a short but broad sword of bronze. Greaves of bronze,
like those of the Homeric heroes, protected their legs in battle.

The Philistines formed part of the host which invaded Egypt in the reign of Ramses III. Along
with their kinsfolk, the Zakkal, they had already made themselves formidable to the coast of
the Delta and of southern Canaan. The sea had long been infested by their ships, bent on plunder
and piracy; the Zakkal had attacked Egypt in the time of Meneptah, and the road from Egypt
to Asia which skirted the sea had long been known as "the way of the Philistines." When Ramses
III. overran southern Canaan, Gaza still belonged to Egypt, as it had done for the three preceding
centuries; but it is probable that the Philistines were already settled in its neighbourhood.
At all events, it was not long before they made themselves masters of Gaza, and thus closed
for Egypt the way to Asia. Henceforward Gaza and its four companion cities became the strongholds
of the Philistines (B.C. 1200). The southern coast as far north as Mount Carmel fell into their
hands: the Zakkal established themselves at Dor, and the port of Joppa was lost to the Phoenicians.

Hardly were the Israelites planted in the Promised Land before they were confronted by the
Philistines. Shamgar, we are told, one of the earliest of the Judges, slew six hundred of them
"with an ox-goad." But it was not until the close of the period of the Judges that they became
really formidable to Israel. Judah had become a distinct and powerful tribe, formed out of
Hebrew, Kenite, and Edomite elements, and its frontier adjoined Philistia. At first there was
desultory warfare; the Philistines made raids into Judæan territory, and the Jews retaliated
whenever the opportunity occurred. But the Philistines were a nation of warriors, and their
forces were recruited from time to time by fresh arrivals from Krete or other parts of the
eastern Mediterranean. Year by year, therefore, the Philistine attack became more formidable;
the raids of the enemy were no longer confined to Judah, but extended into Benjamin and Mount
Ephraim. The Philistines began to dream of conquering the whole of Canaan, which was henceforth
to bear the name of Palestine, "the land of the Philistines."

The Israelitish army was shattered in a decisive battle, the ark of the covenant between Israel
and its national God was taken by the heathen, and the priests of Shiloh, the central sanctuary,
were slain. The victors marched unresisted through the country, burning and spoiling, and securing
the passes by means of permanent garrisons. Shiloh and its temple were destroyed, and its priesthood
scattered abroad.

The Philistine supremacy lasted for several years. A few outlaws maintained a guerilla warfare
in the mountains of Benjamin, and the prophet Samuel, the representative of Shiloh, was allowed
to declare the oracles of Yahveh to his countrymen. But the vanquished population was deprived
of the means for revolt. The Israelites were forbidden the use of arms, and no itinerant smith
was permitted to enter their territory. The Hebrew who wished to sharpen his ploughshare or
axe was forced to go to a Philistine city.

The condition of Israel became intolerable. There was but one remedy: the people needed a leader
who should organise them into an army and a nation, and lead them forth against their foes.
Saul was elected king, and the choice was soon justified by the results. The Philistines were
driven out of the country, and Saul set up his court in the very spot where a Philistine garrison
had stood.

But the Philistines were not yet subdued. Civil war broke out in Israel between Saul and his
son-in-law David; the troops which should have been employed in resisting the common enemy
were used in pursuing David, and David himself took service as a mercenary under Achish, King
of Gath. Saul and his sons fell in battle on Mount Gilboa; the relics of the Israelitish army
fled across the Jordan, and the Philistine again ruled supreme on the western side of the Jordan.
David was allowed to govern Judah as a tributary vassal of the Philistine "lords."

The murder of the feeble scion of Saul's house who had the name of king on the eastern side
of the Jordan put an end to all this. David threw off his allegiance to the Philistines, and
was crowned King of Israel. This act of open defiance was speedily followed by the invasion
of Judah. At first the war went against the Israelitish king; he was forced to fly from his
capital, Hebron, and take refuge in an inaccessible cavern. Here he organised his forces, and
at last ventured into the field. The Philistine forces were defeated in battle after battle;
the war was carried into their own territory, and their cities were compelled to surrender.
Philistia thus became a part of the Israelitish kingdom, and never again made any serious attempt
to recover its independence. At the division of the Israelitish kingdom it fell to Judah, and
its vassal princes duly paid their tribute to the Jewish kings. It would seem from the Assyrian
inscriptions that they were played off one against the other, and that signs of disaffection
in any one of them were speedily followed by his imprisonment in Jerusalem. At all events,
the Philistine cities remained in the possession of Judah down to the time of the overthrow
of the monarchy, and the most devoted of David's body-guard were the Philistines of Gath.

It has been said above that Judah was a mixture of Hebrew, Kenite, and Edomite elements. Kenite
means "smith," and the tribe furnished those itinerant smiths who provided Canaan with its
tools and arms. Reference is made to one of them in the Travels of a Mohar, a sarcastic description
of a tourist's misadventures in Palestine which was written by an Egyptian author in the reign
of Ramses II., and of which a copy on papyrus has been preserved to us. The horses of the hero
of the story, we are told, ran away and broke his carriage to pieces; he had accordingly to
betake himself to "the iron-workers" and have it repaired. Similar itinerant ironsmiths wandered
through Europe in the Middle Ages, handing down from father to son the secrets of their craft.

The Kenites came from the desert, and were apparently of Midianitish descent. Balaam had looked
down upon their rocky strongholds from the heights of Moab; and they had accompanied their
Hebrew comrades of Judah from their first camping-ground near Jericho to the wilderness south
of Arad. Here they lived among the Amalekite Bedâwin down to the days of Saul. To the last
they maintained their nomadic habits, and the Kenite family of Rechab still dwelt in tents
and avoided wine in that later age when the kingdom of Judah was about to fall.[3]

The Edomite element in Judah was stronger than the Kenite. It consisted of the two clans of
Jerahmeel and Kenaz, or the house of Caleb as it was called in the time of David.[4] Kenaz
was a grandson of Esau, and the fact that the Kenizzites shared with the Israelitish tribes
in the conquest of Canaan throws light on the law of Deuteronomy[5] which gave the Edomite
of "the third generation" all the rights and privileges of a Jew. Caleb, the conqueror of Hebron,
was a Kenizzite; so also was Othniel, the first of the Judges of Israel. Edomites, rather than
Hebrews, were the founders of the future Judah.

This accounts for the comparatively late appearance of Judah as a separate tribe in the history
of Israel, as well as for the antagonism which existed between it and the more pure-blooded
tribes of the north. In the Song of Deborah and Barak, Judah is not mentioned; Ephraim and
Benjamin, and not Judah, are still regarded as forming the bulwark of Israel against the Amalekite
marauders of the southern wilderness. It was the Philistine wars which first created the Judah
of later days. They forced Hebrews, Edomites, and Kenites to unite against the common enemy,
and welded them into a single whole. Though the three peoples still continued to be spoken
of separately, this was but a survival of ancient modes of speech, and after the accession
of David all distinction between them disappears. From this time forward the kingdom of Judah
is one undivided community.

But the Amalekites were ever on its borders. The Amalekite of the Old Testament is the Bedâwi
of to-day. Now, as ever, he is the scourge of his more settled neighbours, whose fields he
harries and whose families he murders. He lives by robbery and theft; too idle to work himself,
he plunders those who do. A strong government forces him to hide himself in the depth of the
wilderness; when the countries that skirt the desert fall into decay he emerges from his retreat
like a swarm of flies. The ancient Oriental world saw in Amalek "the firstborn of nations;"
he was for them the representative of the primitive savage who had survived in the wilds of
the desert. Untamed and untamable, his hand was against every man, and every man's hand against
him.

Before Babylonian culture had been brought to the West, Amalek already existed. He was older
than the oldest of the civilised kingdoms of the earth. But civilisation had raised a barrier
against him which he was ever on the watch to break through. He never lost the opportunity
of raiding the inhabitants of the cultivated lands, and escaping again into the desert with
his booty before he could be overtaken and punished. The desert between Palestine and Egypt
was his chief camping-ground. He had occupied the wadis of Mount Seir before the Edomites had
entered them, and a part of the later population of the country traced its descent from a mixture
of the Bedâwi with the Edomite. The Egyptians had many names for the Bedâwin hordes. Sometimes
they were the Herusha or "Lords of the Sands," sometimes the Shasu or "Plunderers," sometimes
again the Sutê or "Archers." The third name was borrowed from the Babylonians; in return, as
we learn from the tablets of Tel el-Amarna, the Babylonians adopted the second.

Hardly had the Israelites escaped from Egypt when they were called upon to dispute with the
Amalekites the possession of the desert. At Rephidim the Bedâwin robbers fell upon the Israelitish
camp. But they were beaten off with slaughter, and never again ventured to molest the people
of Yahveh during their wanderings in the wilderness. The attack, however, was never forgotten,
and vengeance was exacted for it in the reign of Saul. Then the Amalekites were pursued into
their desert domain and mercilessly slaughtered. They had their home, it is said, in the desert
which extended from Shur to Havilah. Shur was the line of fortification which defended the
eastern frontier of Egypt, and ran pretty much where the Suez Canal has been dug to-day; Havilah
was the "sandy" desert of northern Arabia. Here was the "city" of tents of which Agag was shêkh,
and which the troops of the Israelitish king burnt and spoiled.

But the remembrance of the expedition did not last long. When civil war had weakened the power
of Saul, and the march of the Philistine army to the north had left the south of Canaan without
defenders, an Amalekite tribe again poured into Judah and sacked the Philistine town of Ziklag.
The wives and property of David and his followers were carried off into the wilderness. But
the marauders were overtaken by the Israelites they had robbed, and summary vengeance taken
upon them. Men, women, and children were alike put to the sword; four hundred only escaped
through the fleetness of their camels.

In the Tel el-Amarna tablets we find the Bedâwin and their shêkhs playing a part in the politics
of Canaan. Their services were hired by the rival princes of Palestine, and from time to time
we hear of their seizing or plundering its cities on their own account. They have never ceased
indeed to infest the land. Amalekite bands joined with the Midianites in devastating the villages
of central Israel in the days of Gideon, and the Amalekite who brought to David the news of
Saul's death was one of those who had hovered on the skirts of the contending armies, eager
when the fight was over to murder the wounded and strip the slain. In a later age the "Arabs"
who, according to the inscriptions of Sennacherib, formed the body-guard of Hezekiah were probably
Bedâwin, and Geshem the Arabian in the time of Nehemiah seems to have represented the Amalekite
chieftain of an earlier epoch. The Bedâwin still haunt the plains and unfrequented paths of
Palestine, waylaying the traveller and robbing the peasant of his flocks.

The peasantry or fellahin are the Perizzites of the Hebrew Scriptures. "Perizzite," in fact,
means "villager," and the word is a descriptive title rather than the name of a people or a
race. It denotes the agricultural population, whatever their origin may have been. Another
word of similar signification is Hivite. If any distinction is to be drawn between them, it
is that the term Perizzite was specially applied to the fellahin of southern Canaan, while
the term Hivite was restricted to the inhabitants of the north. In two passages, it is true,
"Hivite" seems to be used with an ethnic meaning. Esau is said in one of them to have married
the granddaughter of "Zibeon the Hivite," while in the other we read of "the Hivite" who dwelt
under Mount Hermon. But a comparison of the first passage with the later verses of the same
chapter shows that "Hivite" must be corrected into "Horite," and in the second passage it is
probable that "Hittite" instead of "Hivite" should be read.

Amorite and Hittite, Canaanite and Philistine, were all alike emigrants from other lands. The
Hittites had come from the mountains of Asia Minor, the Amorites had probably wandered from
the northern coast of Africa, the Canaanites traced their ancestry to the Persian Gulf, the
Philistines had sailed from the harbours of the Greek seas. Canaan had been inhabited, however,
before any of them had found their way to it, and this prehistoric population of the country
was known to the Hebrews by the name of Rephaim. In the English translation of the Bible the
word is usually rendered "giants;" it seems, however, to have been a proper name, which survived
in the name of one of the cities of Bashan. Doubtless it often included other elements besides
that to which it was properly applied. At times it was extended to the Amorites, whose occupation
of Palestine went back to a remote past, just as in the Babylonian inscriptions the name of
Amorite itself was extended to the aboriginal population. Among the Philistines this older
population was called Avvim, the people of "the ruins."

Such then were the races who lived in Canaan, and with whom the invading Israelites had to
contend. There was firstly the primitive population of the country, whose rude rock-sculptures
may still be seen in the Wadi el-Qana near Tyre. Then there were the intrusive Amorites and
Canaanites, the Amorites with their fair skins and blue eyes who made themselves a home in
the mountains, and the Semitic Canaanites who settled on the coast and in the plains. The Amorite
migration went back to an epoch long before that of the first Babylonian conquests in the West;
the Canaanitish migration may have been coeval with the latter event. Next came the Hittites,
to whom the Jebusites of Jerusalem may have belonged; then the Philistines, who seized the
southern coast but a few years previously to the Israelitish invasion. Canaan was a land of
many races and many peoples, who had taken shelter in its highlands, or had found their further
progress barred by the sea. Small as it was, it was the link between Asia and Africa, the battle-ground
of the great kingdoms which arose on the Euphrates and the Nile. It formed, in fact, the centre
of the ancient civilised world, and the mixture of races within it was due in great measure
to its central position. The culture of Babylonia and Egypt met there and coalesced.

[Footnote 2: Numb. xiii. 29.]

[Footnote 3: 1 Chr. ii. 55; Jer. xxxv. 3-10.]

[Footnote 4: 1 Sam. xxx. 14.]

[Footnote 5: Deut. xxiii 8.]

CHAPTER III

THE NATIONS OF THE SOUTH-EAST

Israel was cut in two by the Jordan. The districts east of the Jordan were those that had first
been conquered; it was from thence that the followers of Joshua had gone forth to possess themselves
of Canaan. But this division of the territory was a source of weakness. The interests of the
tribes on the two sides of the river were never quite the same; at times indeed they were violently
antagonistic. When the disruption of the monarchy came after the death of Solomon, Judah was
the stronger for the fact that the eastern tribes followed those of the north. The eastern
tribes were the first to lose their independence; they were carried into Assyrian captivity
twelve years before the fall of Samaria itself.

The eastern side of Jordan, in fact, belonged of right to the kinsfolk of the Israelites, the
children of Lot. Ammon and Moab derived their origin from the nephew of Abraham, not from the
patriarch himself, the ancestor of Ammon being Ben-Ammi, "the Son of Ammi," the national god
of the race. It was said that the two peoples were the offspring of incest, and the cave was
pointed out where they had been born. Ammon occupied the country to the north which in earlier
days had been the home of the aboriginal Zuzini or Zamzummim. But they had been treated as
the Canaanites were treated by the Israelites in later days; their cities were captured by
the invading Ammonites, and they themselves massacred or absorbed into the conquerors.

To the north the territory of Ammon was bounded by the plateau of Bashan and the Aramaic kingdoms
of Gilead. Southward it extended towards the frontier of Moab, if indeed the borders of the
two nations did not at one time coincide. When the Israelitish invasion, however, took place,
the Amorites under Sihon had thrust themselves between, and had carved for themselves a kingdom
out of the northern half of Moab. The land north of the Arnon became Amorite; but the Ammonite
frontier was too well defended to be broken through.

The kingdom of Ammon maintained itself down to the time of David. At one time, in the days
of the Judges, the Ammonites had made the Israelitish tribes on the eastern side of the Jordan
tributary to them, and had even crossed the river and raided the highlands of Ephraim. Under
Saul, Ammon and Israel were at constant feud. Saul had begun his reign by rescuing Jabesh in
Gilead from the Ammonite king Nahash, who had threatened to treat its inhabitants with innate
Semitic barbarity. When civil war broke out in Israel, Nahash naturally befriended David, and
the alliance continued after David's accession to the throne. Common interests brought them
together. Esh-Baal, the successor of Saul in Gilead, was the enemy of both: his frontier adjoined
that of Ammon, while between him and the King of Judah there was perpetual war. David had strengthened
himself by marrying the daughter of the king of the Aramaic district of Geshur, which bounded
Gilead on the north, and Ammonites and Aramæans were in close alliance with each other.

As long as Nahash lived, there was peace between him and David. But with the accession of his
son Hanun came a change. The King of Judah had become King of Israel, and his general, Joab,
had subdued the neighbouring kingdom of Moab, and was looking out for a fresh field of fame.
Hanun determined to forestall the war which he believed to be inevitable, and, in alliance
with the Aramæans, to crush the rising power of David. Family quarrels also probably conspired
to bring about this resolution. In the after days of Absalom's rebellion we find David entertained
in Gilead by Shobi the brother of Hanun;[6] it may be, therefore, that Hanun had had a rival
in his brother, who had received shelter and protection at David's court. At all events the
Israelitish ambassadors were grossly insulted, and a long war with Ammon began. Campaign followed
upon campaign; the City of Waters, Rabbah, the "capital" of Ammon, was closely invested, and
the Aramaic allies of Hanun were put to flight. Rabbah fell at last; its defenders were tortured
and slain, and the kingdom of Ammon annexed to the Israelitish empire.

When it recovered its independence we do not know. In the days of Assyrian conquest in the
West it was already again governed by its own kings. One of them, Baasha, the son of Rehob,
was, like Ahab of Samaria, an ally of Damascus against the Assyrian invader, and we hear of
two others, one of whom bears the same name as "Shinab, King of Admah." The storm of Babylonian
conquest which overwhelmed Judah spared Ammon; after the destruction of Jerusalem Baalis was
still king of the Ammonites, and ready to extend his power over the desolated fields of Judah.[7]

The language of Ammon, if we may argue from the proper names, was, like that of Moab, a mere
dialectal variety of that of Israel. The "language of Canaan" must have been adopted by the
Ammonites and Moabites just as it was by the Israelitish tribes. The Moabite Stone has proved
this conclusively. Moabite and Ammonite, Phoenician and Hebrew, were all alike dialects of
one language, which differed from one another merely as one English dialect differs from another.
Hebrew had retained a few "Arabisms," a few traces of its ancient contact with Arabic-speaking
tribes; that was all. In other respects it was the same as "the language of Canaan" on either
side of the Jordan.

The Ammonites believed themselves to be the children of the national god Ammi. But Ammi was
usually worshipped under the title of Malcham or Milcom, "the King." It was to Milcom that
Solomon erected an altar at Jerusalem, in honour of that Ammonite wife whose son Rehoboam succeeded
him on the throne, and it was from the head of his image at Kabbah that his crown of gold and
precious stones, 131 pounds in weight, was removed to grace the triumph of David.[8]

Moab was more exposed to the inroads of its nomadic neighbours from the wilderness than its
sister-kingdom of Ammon. It lay along the eastern shores of the Dead Sea, and was a land of
lofty mountains and fertile river-plains. Its wadis were coveted by the tribes of the desert;
the well-watered valley of the Arnon attracted more powerful foes. When the Israelites encamped
in "the plain of Moab," Balak, the Moabite king, sent in terror to Balaam, the seer of Pethor.
He had indeed cause for alarm. The Amorites had already robbed him of the fairest portion of
his dominions; Moab north of the Arnon had fallen into their hands. The Amorite song of triumph
has been preserved in the Book of Numbers. "Come unto Heshbon," it said; "let the city of Sihon
be built and fortified. For a fire has gone forth from Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon;
it hath consumed Ar of Moab, and the Baalim of the high-places of Arnon. The Amorites were
crushed by the Israelitish forces, though the lands they had taken from Moab were not restored
to their original owners. The conquerors settled in them, and a mixed Israelitish and Moabite
population was the result. The Moabites, in fact, were powerless to resist. The southern portion
of the kingdom had been overrun by Midianite hordes; the enemy with whom the Israelites had
to contend on Moabite soil was Midianite and not Moabite. Those who corrupted Israel on the
high-place of Peor were Midianites in race.

The Midianites seem to have continued in occupation of Moabite territory for several generations.
Reuben was enabled to pasture his flocks in peace in its valleys, and it is probable that it
was not till Hadad, the King of Edom, "smote Midian in the plain of Moab" that Midianitish
supremacy came finally to an end. It may be that Gideon's success against the Midianite oppressors
of Gilead was one of the results of their overthrow by the Edomite prince.

At the same time, Midianitish supremacy did not mean the destruction of the Moabite kingdom.
Moab was still governed by its own kings, tributary vassals though they were to the foreigner.
One of them, Eglon, made himself master of southern Palestine shortly after the Israelitish
conquest of the country, and was murdered by the Benjamite Ehud. Between Moab and Judah there
was, as might be expected from their geographical position, constant intercourse. A Moabitess
was the ancestress of David, and it was to the court of the King of Moab that David entrusted
his parents when hard pressed by Saul. Possibly the Moabite prince was not ill pleased to befriend
the enemy of his own enemy, the King of Israel.

It had been better for the Moabites, however, had David never lived to succeed Saul. The conquest
of the Philistines by his troops was followed by the conquest of Moab. The vanquished people
were decimated, every second man being mercilessly slain. So thoroughly was the country subdued
that it was more than a century before it ventured to break away from its Israelitish master.
After the disruption of Solomon's heritage it fell to the share of the northern kingdom, though
native kings once more sat upon its throne. Now and again they revolted, to be brought back
to obedience, however, when Israel recovered its strength. Such was the case when Omri founded
his dynasty at Samaria; Moab again became a dependency of the Israelitish monarch, and its
ruler was forced to pay tribute and homage to his over-lord. The tribute consisted in sheep,
or rather in their skins, which were tanned by the Israelites into leather, while the fleeces
upon them were woven into cloth. In the time of Ahab, Mesha, the son of Chemosh-melech, sent
each year 100,000 lambs and 100,000 rams.

Mesha subsequently succeeded in shaking off the foreign yoke. He has left us a record of his
victories, the so-called Moabite Stone, which was discovered among the ruins of his capital,
Dibon. The country north of the Arnon was wrested from Israelitish hands, and the King of Israel,
in spite of help from Judah and Edom, failed to recover it. Moab was permanently lost to the
kingdom of Samaria. The Assyrian texts mention some of its later rulers. One of them was Shalman,
who may be the spoiler of Beth-Arbel referred to by Hosea;[10] another was Chemosh-nadab, the
contemporary of Hezekiah.

Chemosh-nadab signifies "Chemosh is noble." Chemosh was the national god of Moab, as Milcom
or Ammi was of Ammon. Like Yahveh of Israel, he stood alone, with no wife to share his divinity.
So entirely, in fact, had the conception of a goddess vanished from the mind of the Moabite,
that, as we learn from the Moabite Stone, the Babylonian Istar, the Ashtoreth of Canaan, had
been transformed into a male deity, and identified with Chemosh. It was to Ashtar-Chemosh,
Mesha tells us, and not to Ashtoreth, that he devoted the captive women of Israel.

The older population, expelled or enslaved by the conquering Moabites, went by the name of
Emim. It is probable that they belonged to the same stock as the Zamzummim or Zuzim whose country
had been seized by the Ammonites. We may gather from the narrative in Genesis that the invaders
forced their way eastward and northward from the valley of the Jordan and the shores of the
Dead Sea.

South of Moab were the rugged and barren mountains of Seir, the seat of the kingdom of Edom.
In prehistoric days they had been the home of the Horites, whose name may denote that they
were of the "white" Amorite race or that they were dwellers in "caves." To the Egyptians it
was known as "the Red Land," along with the desert that stretched westward; "Edom" is merely
the Hebrew or Canaanitish translation of the Egyptian title. The title was one which well befitted
the red cliffs of Seir.

Through the centre of the mountains a rift extended from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Aqaba.
In geological times it had been the channel of the Jordan; now it is called the Wadi el-Araba.
It was this rift which brought wealth to Edom; through it passed the highroad of commerce which
connected Syria with the harbours at the head of the gulf. The spices of Arabia, the gold of
Africa, were unshipped at Elath and Ezion-gaber, and carried from thence on the backs of camels
to the nations of the north. The tolls levied on the merchandise made the kingdom of Edom wealthy,
and at the same time an object of envy to its poorer neighbours. In conquering Edom, David
doubtless desired to secure the trade with the Red Sea and the ports through which the trade
passed.

Edom was the elder brother of Israel. The two nations never forgot that they were of one blood
and one parentage. Their languages were the same, as we may gather from the Edomite proper
names; indeed, it would seem that the dialect of Edom agreed with Hebrew in those Arabising
peculiarities which marked it off from the language of the Canaanites. Edomites took part in
the Israelitish conquest of Palestine, and both Caleb and Othniel were Kenizzites by race.

The Edomite occupation of Seir was long subsequent to the settlement of the Ammonites and Moabites
in the regions which bore their names, though it preceded the Israelitish settlement in Canaan.
While Israel was herding its flocks in Egypt, Edom was establishing itself in the mountains
of Seir. Esau, the brother of Jacob, had already gathered around him a body of followers, and
had married into the family of a Horite chief. His descendants, partly by conquest, partly
by absorption, planted themselves securely in the country which was henceforth to be called
Edom. Horite and Amalekite Bedâwin were alike absorbed into the new-comers, whose position
in Edom resembled that of the Israelites in Canaan.

How long the work of conquest and settlement lasted we do not know. It resulted in the formation
of numerous tribes, each under its chieftain, the alûph or "duke" as he was termed. These "dukes"
corresponded with the "princes" of the tribes of Israel. But whereas the "princes" of the Israelitish
tribes did not survive the life in the desert, the "dukes" of Edom give way only to kings.
For this there was a good reason. The invasion of Canaan and the promulgation of the Mosaic
Law changed the whole organisation of the Hebrew people. On the one hand, the Israelites required
a leader who should lead them in the first instance against the Canaanites, in the second against
the foreign oppressors who enslaved them from time to time. On the other hand, the high-priests
at Shiloh exercised many of the functions which would naturally have belonged to the head of
the tribe. Neither "judge" nor high-priest was needed in Edom. There the native population
was weak and uncivilised; it possessed neither cities nor chariots of iron, and its subjugation
was no difficult task. Once in possession of the fastnesses of Seir, the Edomites were comparatively
safe from external attack. It was a land of dangerous defiles and barren mountains, surrounded
on all sides by the desert. There was no central sanctuary, no Levitical priesthood, no Mosaic
Law. The "duke" consequently had no rival; the history of Edom knows nothing of judges or high-priests.

The law of evolution, however, which governed other Semitic communities prevailed also in Edom.
The dukes had to give place to a king. The tribes were united under a single leader, and the
loosely federated clans became a kingdom. As in Israel, so too in Edom the kingdom was elective.
But, unlike Israel, it remained elective; there was no pressure of Philistine conquest, no
commanding genius like David, no central capital like Jerusalem to make it centralised and
hereditary. Several generations had to pass before the Edomites were called upon to fight for
their independence against a foreign invader, and when they did so the struggle ended in their
subjugation. The elective principle and the want of a common centre and feeling of unity that
resulted from it had much to do with the victory of David.

The song of triumph with which the Israelitish fugitives celebrated the overthrow of their
Egyptian enemies mentions the alûphím or "dukes" of Edom. But before the Israelites had emerged
from the wilderness the dukes had been supplanted by a king. It was a king who refused a passage
through his dominions to Moses and his followers, and in this king some scholars have seen
the Aramæan seer Balaam the son of Beor. At all events, the first Edomite king is said to have
been Bela or Balaam the son of Beor, and the name of the city of Din-habah, from which he came,
has a close resemblance to that of Dunip in northern Syria.

A list of the kings of Edom is given in the thirty-sixth chapter of Genesis, extracted from
the state annals of the country. It seems to be brought down to the time when Saul was elected
king over Israel. The chronicles of Edom were probably taken to Jerusalem at the time of its
conquest by David; at any rate, they would then have become accessible to an Israelitish writer.
The conquest was very thorough, all the male population being put to the sword, and a few only
escaping to Egypt. Among these was a member of the royal house, Hadad by name, who grew up
at the Egyptian court, and, after marrying the sister-in-law of the Pharaoh, returned to his
native mountains, where he played the part of a bandit chief. The caravans which passed from
the Gulf of Aqaba to the north were attacked and plundered, and Solomon up to the end of his
reign failed to suppress the brigands. With the disruption of the Israelitish monarchy, Edom,
as was natural, fell to the lot of Judah, and for many years was governed by a viceroy. It
was not until after the death of Jehoshaphat that the Edomites succeeded in revolting from
their masters, and in recovering their ancient independence. Three of their rulers are mentioned
in the Assyrian inscriptions, from which we learn that there was a city of Edom, as well as
a country of that name.

Of the religion of the Edomites we know but little. The supreme Baal was the Sun-god Hadad;
another god worshipped by them was Qaus or Kos. Of goddesses we hear nothing. The Israelites,
however, recognised in the Edomites brethren of their own, whose religion was not far removed
from that of the descendants of Jacob. An Edomite of the third generation could enter "into
the congregation of the Lord," and we hear of no rival deity in Edom to Yahveh of Israel. Indeed,
in the old poetry of Israel Yahveh was said to have risen up "from Seir," and the charge brought
against Edom by the prophet Obadiah is not that of idolatry or the worship of a "strange god,"
but of standing on the side of the "foreigners" on the day that Jerusalem was destroyed.

The southern part of Edom was known as Teman; it was to the east of Teman that the Kadmonites
or "children of the East" pitched their tents. We first hear of them in an Egyptian papyrus
of the age of the Twelfth dynasty (B.C. 2500). Then they received with hospitality a political
fugitive from Egypt; he married one of their princesses and became one of their chiefs.

Not far from the camping-places of the Kadmonites was the land of Uz, famous as the home of
Job. Uz, in fact, was a province of Edom; Edomite colonists, so we are told in the Book of
Lamentations,[11] inhabited it. Indeed, it has been suggested that the difficulties presented
by the language of the Book of Job are due to the fact that it is the language of Edom rather
than of the Jews, differing from the latter only as an English dialect may differ from that
of a neighbouring county. At all events, Job was as much a hero of Hebrew as of Edomite tradition,
while the last chapter of the Book of Proverbs contains the wise sayings of a king whose territory
adjoined the land of Edom. Lemuel, according to the Hebrew text, which is mistranslated in
the Authorised Version, ruled over Massa, and Massa, the Mash of Genesis, is described in the
Assyrian inscriptions as that part of northern Arabia which spread eastward from Edom. The
Hebrew of Palestine doubtless included it in the country of "the children of the East."

The larger part of northern Arabia, however, was the home of the Ishmaelites. They lived, it
is said, "from Havilah unto Shur," like the Amalekites or Bedâwin. But whereas the Amalekites
were the wild, untamable natives of the desert, the Ishmaelites came of a cultured ancestry,
half Babylonian, half Egyptian, and the traditions of it were never forgotten. They lived a
settled life in fenced villages and fortified castles, as their descendants still do to-day.
Like the Israelites, they were divided into twelve tribes, the eldest and most important of
which were the Nabatheans, who spread from the frontiers of Babylonia to Petra in the far west.
Kedar was another powerful tribe; in the days of the later Assyrian empire its kings contended
in battle with the armies of Nineveh.

The name of Ishmael is met with in Babylonian contracts of the age of Abraham. It is a name
which belongs to Canaan rather than to Babylonia or Arabia. The Ishmaelite tribes, in fact,
spoke dialects in which Canaanitish and Arabic elements were mingled together. They are the
dialects we term Aramaic, and represent a mixture of Arabic with Canaanitish or Hebrew. As
we go northwards into Syria the Canaanitish element predominates; southward the Arabic element
is the more pronounced.

The Ishmaelites were merchants and traders. They lived on the caravan-road which brought the
spices of southern Arabia to Canaan and Egypt, and the trade was largely in their hands. In
the history of Joseph we hear of them carrying the balm of Gilead and the myrrh of the south
on their camels to Egypt, and in the second century before the Christian era the merchant princes
of Petra made their capital one of the wealthiest of Oriental cities. It was not until 105
A.D. that the Nabathean state was conquered by Rome, and the Ishmaelites of northern Arabia
transformed into Roman subjects. They have left their tombs and inscriptions among the rocks
of Petra, while the cliffs of the Sinaitic Peninsula are covered with the scrawls of Nabathean
travellers.

Southward of the Ishmaelites came the Midianites. Midianites and Ishmaelites were alike of
the same blood. Both traced their descent from Abraham; it was only on the side of the mother
that their origin was different. While the Ishmaelites claimed connection with Egypt, the Midianites
were more purely Arabic in race. The name of Keturah their ancestress means "incense," and
points to the incense-bearing lands of the south. Midian was properly the district which stretched
along the western coast of the Gulf of Aqaba towards Mecca, if not towards Yemen. But Midianite
tribes had also pushed northwards and mingled with the descendants of Ishmael. "Ishmaelites"
and "Midianites" seem convertible terms in the story of Joseph, and the Midianites who swarmed
into the north of Israel in the days of Gideon, along with the Amalekites and "the children
of the East," must have been as much Ishmaelite as Midianite in descent.

Between the Midianites and the Israelitish fugitives from Egypt there had been close affinity.
Moses had found a refuge in Midian, and his wife and children were Midianite in race. His father-in-law,
"the priest of Midian," had visited him under the shadow of Sinai, and had given him his first
lessons in political organisation. A Midianite remained to guide the Israelites through the
wilderness, and the Kenites, who took part with the tribe of Judah in the conquest of Canaan,
appear to have migrated from Midian. It was not until just before the invasion of Palestine
that the old bonds of friendship and mixture between Israel and Midian were broken asunder.
Midianite hosts had overrun the land of Moab as at a later time they overran the land of Israel,
and the Israelites had forsaken Yahveh for the worship of the Midianite Baal-Peor. This was
the result of intermarriage; the Israelites had taken Midianite wives and conformed to the
licentious rites of a Midianite god.

Israel, however, was saved by its Levite priests. They rallied round Yahveh and Moses, and
in the struggle that ensued the forces on the side of the national God proved the stronger.
The Midianitish faction was annihilated, its leaders put to death, and the Midianites themselves
attacked and despoiled. Among the slain was the seer of Pethor, Balaam the son of Beor.

The Moabites must have hailed the Israelites as saviours. They had delivered them from their
two assailants, the Amorites on the north, the Midianites on the east. But the Midianite power
was broken only for a time. We hear at a subsequent date of the Edomite king Hadad "who smote
Midian in the field of Moab," and a time came when Midianite shêkhs overran Gilead, and penetrated
into the valleys and villages of Manasseh on the western side of the Jordan. After their defeat
by Gideon, however, we hear of them no more. They passed out of the Israelitish horizon; henceforth
their raiding bands never approached the frontiers of Israel. The land of Midian alone is mentioned
as adjoining Edom; the Midianites who had traversed the desert and carried terror to the inhabitants
of Canaan become merely a name.

Midian was originally governed by high-priests. This was the case among other Semitic peoples
as well. In Assyria the kings were preceded by the high-priests of Assur, and recently-discovered
inscriptions show that in southern Arabia, in the land of Sheba, the high-priest came before
the king. Jethro, "the priest of Midian," represented a peculiarly Arabian institution.

The name of "Arab" was applied to certain tribes only of northern Arabia. We hear of them in
the Old Testament as well as in the Assyrian inscriptions. In the Old Testament the name seems
to include the Ishmaelite clans to the east of Edom. Their "kings," it is said, brought tribute
to Solomon; a colony of them was established at Gur-Baal in the south of Judah. We learn from
the Assyrian texts that they could be governed by queens; two of their queens indeed are mentioned
by name.

It was also a "queen of the south," it will be remembered, who came to hear the wisdom of Solomon.
Sheba, the Saba of classical antiquity, was an important kingdom of south-western Arabia, which
had grown wealthy through its trade in spicery. From time immemorial Egypt had imported frankincense
from the southern coasts of the Arabian peninsula, and the precious spices had been carried
by merchants to the far north. The caravan-road of trade ran northward to Midian and Edom,
touching on the one side on the frontier of Egypt, on the other on that of Palestine. The road
and the country through which it passed were in the hands of the south Arabian kings. Their
inscriptions have been discovered at Teima, the Tema of the Old Testament, not far inland from
El-Wej, and in the days of Tiglath-pileser the kings of Saba claimed rule as far as the Euphrates.
It was no strange thing, therefore, for a queen of Sheba to have heard of the power of Solomon,
or to have sought alliance with so wealthy and luxurious a neighbour. His province of Edom
adjoined her own possessions; his ports on the Gulf of Aqaba were open to her merchants, and
the frankincense which grew in her dominions was needed for the temple at Jerusalem.

The people of Sheba belonged to the south Arabian stock. In both blood and language they differed
considerably from the Semites of the north. Physically they bore some resemblance to the Egyptians,
and it has been suggested that the Egyptians were originally emigrants from their shores. They
lived in lofty castles, and terraced the slopes of the mountains for the purpose of cultivation,
as they still do to-day. Civilisation among them was old; it was derived, at least in part,
from Babylonia, and the dynasty which reigned over Babylon in the age of Abraham was of south
Arabian descent. Some of them crossed the Red Sea and founded colonies in Africa, in the modern
Abyssinia, where they built cities and introduced the culture of their former homes. Like the
Egyptians and the Babylonians, they were a literary people; their inscriptions are still scattered
thickly among the ruins of their towns, written in the letters of the alphabet which is usually
termed Phoenician. But it is becoming a question whether it was not from south Arabia that
Phoenicia first borrowed it, and whether it would not be more truthfully called Arabian.

The religion of southern Arabia was highly polytheistic. Each district and tribe had its special
god or gods, and the goddesses were almost as numerous as the gods. Along with Babylonian culture
had come the adoption of several Babylonian divinities;--Sin, the Moon-god, for instance, or
Atthar, the Ashtoreth of Canaan. How far westward the worship of Sin was carried may be judged
from the fact that Sinai, the sacred mountain whereon the law of Israel was promulgated, took
its name from that of the old Babylonian god.

In the tenth chapter of Genesis Sheba is one of the sons of Joktan, the ancestor of the south
Arabian tribes. Foremost among them is Hazarmaveth, the Hadhramaut of to-day; another is Ophir,
the port to which the gold of Africa was brought. But the same chapter also assigns to Sheba
a different origin. It couples him with Dedan, and sees in him a descendant of Ham, a kinsman
of Egypt and Canaan. Both genealogies are right. They are geographical, not ethnic, and denote,
in accordance with Semitic idiom, the geographical relationships of the races and nations of
the ancient world. Sheba belonged not only to south Arabia but to northern Arabia as well.
The rule of the Sabæan princes extended to the borders of Egypt and Canaan, and Sheba was the
brother of Hazarmaveth and of Dedan alike. For Dedan was a north Arabian tribe, whose home
was near Tema, and whose name may have had a connection with that sometimes given by the Babylonians
to the whole of the west.

Such, then, was Arabia in the days of the Hebrew writers. The south was occupied by a cultured
population, whose rule, at all events after the time of Solomon, was acknowledged throughout
the peninsula. The people of the north and the centre differed from this population in both
race and language, though all alike belonged to the same Semitic stock. The Midianites on the
western coast perhaps partook of the characteristics of both. But the Ishmaelites were wholly
northern; they were the kinsmen of the Edomites and Israelites, and their language was that
Aramaic which represents a mixture of Arabic and Canaanitish elements. Wandering tribes of
savage Bedâwin pitched their tents in the desert, or robbed their more settled neighbours,
as they do to-day; these were the Amalekites of the Old Testament, who were believed to be
the first created of mankind, and the aboriginal inhabitants of Arabia. Apart from them, however,
the peninsula was the seat of a considerable culture. The culture had spread from the spice-bearing
lands of the south, where it had been in contact with the civilisations of Babylonia on the
one side and of Egypt on the other, and where wealthy and prosperous kingdoms had arisen, and
powerful dynasties of kings had held sway. It is to Arabia, in all probability, that we must
look for the origin of the alphabet--in itself a proof of the culture of those who used it;
and it was from Arabia that Babylonia received that line of monarchs which first made Babylon
a capital, and was ruling there in the days of Abraham. We must cease to regard Arabia as a
land of deserts and barbarism; it was, on the contrary, a trading centre of the ancient world,
and the Moslems who went forth from it to conquer Christendom and found empires, were but the
successors of those who, in earlier times, had exercised a profound influence upon the destinies
of the East.

[Footnote 6: 2 Sam. xvii. 27.]

[Footnote 7: Jer. xl. 14.]

[Footnote 8: Rehoboam is an Ammonite name, compounded with that of the god Am or Ammi. Rehob,
which is the first element in it, was also an Ammonite name, as we learn from the Assyrian
inscriptions.]

[Footnote 9: Numb. xxi. 27-29.]

[Footnote 10: x. 14.]

[Footnote 11: iv. 21.]

CHAPTER IV

THE NATIONS OF THE NORTH-EAST

Canaan is but the southern continuation of Syria, which shades off, as it were, into the waterless
wilderness. The name of Syria is usually supposed to be an abbreviation of Assyria, but it
is more probable that it comes from Suri, the name by which the Babylonians denoted Mesopotamia
and Syria of the north, and in which Assyria itself was sometimes included. As we have seen,
the Syria of our own maps, and more especially the southern half of it, was commonly known
to the Babylonians as the land of the Amorites; in the later inscriptions of Assyria the place
of the Amorites is taken by the Hittites. When Assyria appeared upon the scene of history the
Hittites had become the dominant people in the west.

The main part of the population of Syria and Mesopotamia was Aramæan--that is to say, it consisted
of Semites from Arabia who spoke Aramaic dialects. But it was exposed to constant attacks from
the north, and from time to time passed under the yoke of a northern conqueror. At one time
it was the Hittites who poured down the slopes of Mount Taurus and occupied the fertile plains
and cities of northern Syria. At another time a kindred people from the highlands of Armenia
established a kingdom in Mesopotamia known as that of Mitanni to its own subjects, as that
of Aram-Naharaim to the Hebrews.

The northern invaders sundered the Semites of the West from those of the East. The kings of
Mitanni held guard over the fords of the Euphrates, and intrigued in Palestine against the
Egyptian Pharaohs. But this did not prevent them from marrying into the Pharaoh's family, while
their daughters were sent to the harem of the Egyptian king. Towards the end of the Eighteenth
dynasty the sacred blood of the Pharaohs became contaminated by these foreign alliances. For
two generations in succession the queen-mother was a Mitannian princess, and a king finally
sat upon the Pharaohs' throne who attempted to supplant the religion of which he was the official
head by a foreign cult, and thereby brought about the fall of his house and empire.

The power of Mitanni or Aram-Naharaim--Aram of the Two Rivers--does not seem to have long survived
this event. Chushan-rishathaim, we learn from the Book of Judges, held Palestine in subjection
for eight years, until he was driven out by the Kenizzite Othniel, and about the same time
Ramses III. of Egypt records his victory over the Mesopotamian king. After this we hear no
more of a king of Aram-Naharaim in Canaan or on the frontier of Egypt, and when the name of
Mitanni is met with a little later in the Assyrian inscriptions it is that of a small and insignificant
state.

The Hittites had grown at the expense of Mitanni, but their glory too was of no long duration.
In the days of Ramses II., the Pharaoh of the Oppression, their power was at its height. From
their southern capital at Kadesh on the Orontes their armies had gone forth to contend on equal
terms with the forces of the Nile, and after twenty-one years of warfare, peace was made between
the two combatants, neither side having gained an advantage in the long struggle. The text
of the treaty is engraved on the walls of Karnak. There we may read how the two rivals swore
henceforth to be friends and allies, how the existing boundaries of their respective territories
in Syria were to remain unchanged for ever, and how a general amnesty was to be granted to
the political fugitives on either side. It was only the criminal to whom the right of asylum
in the dominions of the other was denied.

In the war they had waged with Egypt the Hittite princes of Kadesh had summoned their vassal
allies from the distant coasts of Asia Minor. Lycians and Dardanians had come from the far
west; and were joined by the troops of Aram-Naharaim from the east. The extension of Hittite
supremacy to the shores of the Ægean Sea is testified by the monuments it has left behind.
Hittite inscriptions have been found near Smyrna engraved on the rocks, as well as the figures
of Hittite warriors guarding the westernmost pass of the ancient road. The summer residences
of the Hittite princes were on the eastern bank of the Halys. Here the roads of Asia Minor
converged, and here we still see the sculptured bas-reliefs of a Hittite palace and long rows
of Hittite deities.

The Hittite empire broke up into a multitude of small principalities. Of these Carchemish,
now Jerablûs, on the Euphrates, was perhaps the most important. It commanded the ford across
the river, and the high-road of commerce from east to west. Its merchants grew rich, and "the
mina of Carchemish" became a standard of value in the ancient world. Its capture by Sargon
destroyed a rival of Assyrian trade, and opened the road to the Mediterranean to the armies
of Assyria.

The decay of the Hittite and Mitannian power meant the revival of the older Aramæan population
of the country. The foreigner was expelled or absorbed; Syria and Mesopotamia became more and
more Semitic. Aramæan kingdoms arose on all sides, and a feeling of common kinship and interests
arose among them at the same time. To the north of the Gulf of Antioch, in the very heart of
the Hittite territory, German excavators have lately found the earliest known monuments of
Aramæan art. The art, as is natural, is based on that of their Hittite predecessors; even the
inscriptions in the alphabet of Phoenicia are cut in relief like the older hieroglyphs of the
Hittites. But they prove that the triumph of the Aramæan was complete. The foreigner and his
works were swept away; no trace has been discovered of a Hittite text, barely even of a Hittite
name. The gods are all Semitic--Hadad the Sun-god and Shahr the Moon-god, the Baal of Harran,
and Rekeb-el, "the Chariot of God."

Hittite inscriptions have been found at Hamath on the Orontes. But they must belong to a period
earlier than that of David. The rulers of Hamath who made alliance with David bear Semitic
names. The crown-prince came himself to Jerusalem, bringing with him costly vessels of gold
and silver and bronze. His name was Hadoram, "Hadad is exalted;" but out of compliment to the
Israelitish king, the name of Hadad was changed into that of the God of Israel, and he became
known to history as Joram. A common enmity united Hamath and Israel. The war with Ammon had
brought David into conflict with Zobah, an Aramaic kingdom which under Hadad-ezer was aiming
at the conquest of the whole of Syria. In the reign of Saul, Zobah was divided into a number
of separate clans or states; these had been welded together by Hadad-ezer, who had added to
his empire the smaller Aramaic principalities of central Syria. Geshur, Maachah, Damascus all
acknowledged his authority. He had secured the caravan-road which led across the desert, past
the future Palmyra, to the Euphrates, and eastward of that river the Aramæan states sent him
help in war. Like the Pharaohs of a former generation, he had erected a monument of his victory
on the banks of the great river, marking the farthest limit of his dominions.

Hamath was threatened by the growing power of Hadad-ezer, when a new force entered the field.
Joab, the commander of the Israelitish army, was a consummate general, and the veterans he
led had been trained to conquer. Ammon was easily crushed, and while its capital was closely
invested the Israelitish troops fell upon the Aramæans in campaign after campaign. Victory
followed victory; the forces of Zobah and its allies were annihilated, and the Aramæan states
as far as Hamath and even the Euphrates became the tributaries of David. Wealth flowed into
the royal treasury at Jerusalem; the cities of northern Syria were plundered of their bronze,
and the yearly tribute of the subject states, as well as the proceeds of the desert trade,
yielded an unfailing revenue to the conqueror. The attempt of Hadad-ezer to found an Aramæan
empire had failed.

But the empire of David was hardly longer lived. The murder of Joab, and the unwarlike character
and extravagance of Solomon, brought about its downfall. Damascus revolted under Rezon; and
though in the war that ensued Solomon succeeded in keeping the cities of Zobah which kept guard
over the caravan road, it never returned to Israelitish rule. When the disruption of the Israelitish
kingdom came after Solomon's death, the Aramæans rallied round the successors of Rezon. Damascus
increased in strength, and at times laid northern Israel under tribute. Between the two kingdoms
there was indeed constant intercourse, sometimes peaceful, sometimes hostile. Syrian merchants
had bazaars in Samaria, where they could buy and sell, undisturbed by tolls and exactions,
and Israelitish traders had similar quarters assigned to them by treaty in Damascus. "Damask
couches" were already famous, and Ahab sent a contingent of 10,000 men and 2000 chariots to
the help of Ben-Hadad II. in his war against Assyria. This Ben-Hadad is called Hadad-idri or
Hadad-ezer in the Assyrian texts; Ben-Hadad, in fact, was a god, who was worshipped by the
Syrians by the side of his father Hadad.

In the struggle with Assyria the Aramæan forces were led by Hamath. Most of the states of western
Asia contributed troops; even the "Arabs" took part in the conflict. But the confederates were
overthrown with great slaughter at Karkar on the Orontes in B.C. 853, and immediately afterwards
we find Ahab at war with his late ally. Hadad-idri lived only a few years longer. In B.C. 842
he was murdered by Hazael, who seized the throne. But Hazael, like his predecessor, was soon
called upon to face an Assyrian army. Year after year the Assyrians invaded the territories
of Damascus, and though they never succeeded in capturing the capital, the country was devastated,
and a countless amount of booty carried away. The Syrian kingdom was utterly exhausted, and
in no condition to resist the attacks of the Israelitish kings Jehoash and Jeroboam II. Jehoash,
we are told, gained three victories over his hereditary enemy, while Jeroboam occupied its
cities. When an Assyrian army once more appeared at the gates of Damascus in B.C. 797, its
king Mariha was glad to purchase peace by rich presents and the offer of homage. Gold and silver,
bronze and iron in large quantities were yielded up to the conqueror, and Damascus for a while
was the vassal of Nineveh.

But a respite was granted it in which to recover its strength. Civil war sapped the strength
of the kingdom of Israel, and Assyria fell into decay. Freed from its enemies, Damascus again
amassed wealth through the trade across the desert, and was recognised as the head of the smaller
Aramæan states. In conjunction with the Israelitish king Pekah, Rezon II. proposed to overthrow
Judah and supplant the Davidic dynasty by a Syrian vassal-prince. The fall of Judah would have
meant the fall also of Edom and the submission of the Philistines, as well as that of Moab
and Ammon. The strength of its capital made Judah the champion and protector of southern Canaan;
with Jerusalem in their hands, the confederate rulers of Damascus and Samaria could do as they
chose. Ahaz of Judah turned in his despair to the Assyrians, who had once more appeared on
the scene. Tiglath-pileser III. had overthrown the older Assyrian dynasty and put new life
into the kingdom. In the interests of the merchants of Nineveh he aimed at incorporating the
whole of western Asia and its commerce into his empire, and the appeal of Ahaz gave him an
excuse for interfering in the affairs of Palestine. Ahaz became his vassal; Pekah was put to
death, and an Assyrian nominee made king in his place, while Rezon was shut up in his capital
and closely besieged. For two years the siege continued; then Damascus was taken, its last
king slain, and its territory placed under an Assyrian satrap.

Hamath had already fallen. A portion of its population had been transported to the north, and
their places filled with settlers from Babylonia. Its king had become an Assyrian vassal, who
along with the other subject princes of Asia attended the court held by Tiglath-pileser at
Damascus after its capture, there to pay homage to the conqueror and swell his triumph. A few
years later, on the accession of Sargon, Hamath made a final effort to recover its freedom.
But the effort was ruthlessly crushed, and henceforward the last of the Aramæan kingdoms was
made an Assyrian province. When an Aramæan tribe again played a part in history it was in the
far south, among the rocky cliffs of Petra and the desert fortress of the Nabathean merchants.

In the Book of Genesis, Mesopotamia, the country between the Euphrates and Tigris, is called
not only Aram-Naharaim, "Aram of the Two Rivers," but also Padan-Aram, "the acre of Aram."
Padan, as we learn from the Assyrian inscriptions, originally signified as much land as a yoke
of oxen could plough; then it came to denote the "cultivated land" or "acre" itself. The word
still survives in modern Arabic. In the Egypt of to-day land is measured by feddans, the feddan
(or paddmi) being the equivalent of our acre. Paddan was used in the same sense in the Babylonia
of the age of Abraham. Numerous contracts have been found for the lease or sale of estates
in which the "acreage" or number of paddani is carefully stated. The application of the name
to the plain of Mesopotamia was doubtless clue to the Babylonians. An early Babylonian king
claims rule over the "land of Padan," and elsewhere we are told that it lay in front of the
country of the Arman or Aramæans.

It was in western Padan that the kingdom of Mitanni was established. Its founders, as we have
seen, came from the north. From the river Halys in Asia Minor to Lake Urumiyeh, east of Armenia,
there was a multitude of tribes, most of whom seem to have belonged to the same race and to
have spoken dialects of the same language. The Hittites of Cappadocia and the ranges of the
Taurus have already been described. East of them came the Meshech and Tubal of the Bible as
well as the kingdom of Comagênê, of which we often hear in the Assyrian texts. But of all these
northern populations the most important--at all events in the later Old Testament age--were
the inhabitants of a country called Biainas, but to which its neighbours gave the name of Ararat.
Ararat corresponded to southern Armenia, Biainas being the modern Van, and the Mount Ararat
of modern geography lying considerably to the north of it. In the ninth century before our
era a powerful dynasty arose at Van, which extended its conquests far and wide, and at one
time threatened to destroy even the Assyrian empire. It signalised its accession to power by
borrowing the cuneiform writing of Nineveh, and numerous inscriptions exist recording the names
and victories of its sovereigns, the buildings they erected, and the gods they served. The
language of the inscriptions is strange and peculiar; it seems to be distantly related to modern
Georgian, and may be akin to the dialects of the Hittites or of Mitanni.

If we may trust the representations of the Assyrian artists, the people of Ararat did not all
belong to the same race. Two ethnic types have been handed down to us--one with beardless faces,
resembling that of the Hittites, the other of a people with high fore-heads, curved and pointed
noses, thin lips, and well-formed chin. Both, however, wear the same dress. On the head is
a crested helmet like that of the Greeks, on the feet the Hittite boot with upturned end; the
body is clad in a tunic which reaches to the knee, and a small round target is used in battle.

For many centuries the Semites and the people of the north contended for the possession of
the Syrian plains. Horde after horde descended from the northern mountains, capturing the Aramæan
cities and setting up kingdoms in their midst. At one time it seemed as if the Semites of the
east and west were to be permanently sundered from one another. The decay of Babylonia and
Egypt enabled the Mitannians and Hittites to establish themselves in Mesopotamia and Syria,
and to gain possession of the fords of the Euphrates and the great lines of trade. But the
northerner was not suited by nature for the hot and enervating climate of the south. His force
diminished, his numbers lessened, and the subjugated Semite increased in strength. Mitanni
perished like the Hittite empire, and with the rise of the second Assyrian empire the intruding
nations of the north found themselves compelled to struggle for bare existence. Ararat had
become the leader among them, and in the latter days of the older Assyrian dynasty had wrested
territory from the Assyrians themselves, and had imposed its dominion from the borders of Cappadocia
to the shores of Lake Urumiyeh. But on a sudden all was changed. Tiglath-pileser swept the
land of Ararat to the very gates of its capital, destroying and plundering as he went, and
a war began between north and south which ended in the triumph of Assyria. Ararat indeed remained,
though reduced to its original dimensions in the neighbourhood of Lake Van; but its allies
in Comagênê and Cappadocia, in Cilicia and among the Hittites, were subjugated and dispersed.
The tribes of Meshech and Tubal retreated to the coasts of the Black Sea, and Ararat and its
sister-kingdom of Minni were too exhausted to withstand the invasion of a new race from new
quarters of the world. The Aryan Kimmerians from Russia poured through them, settling on their
way in Minni; while other Aryans from Phrygia made themselves masters of Ararat, which henceforth
took the name of Armenia. The Aramæan was avenged: the invaders who in days before the Exodus
had already robbed him of his lands were themselves pursued to their northern retreats. The
south proved to them a land of decay and destruction; Gog and his host were given, "on the
mountains of Israel," to the vulture and the beast of prey.

CHAPTER V

EGYPT

Egypt had been the bondhouse of Israel. It was there that Israel had grown from a family into
a people, which the desert was to transform into a nation. The Exodus out of Egypt was the
beginning of Israelitish history, the era from which it dated. Down to the last the kingdom
of the Pharaohs exercised upon it an influence more or less profound; the extravagant splendour
of Solomon was modelled after that of the Egyptian monarchs, his merchants found their best
market on the banks of the Nile, and the last Canaanitish city which passed into Israelitish
hands was the gift to him of the Pharaoh. The invasion of the Egyptian king prevented Rehoboam
from attempting to reconquer the revolted tribes, and in the days of Assyrian ascendancy it
was Egypt that was played off against the Assyrian invader by the princes and statesmen of
the west. The defeat of Necho at Carchemish handed Palestine over to the Babylonians, and indirectly
brought about the destruction of Jerusalem; even in the age of the Ptolemies Egypt still influenced
the history of Israel, and the Jews of Alexandria prepared the way for the Christian Church.
For centuries Palestine was the battle-ground of the nations; but it was so because it lay
between the two great powers of the ancient East, between Egypt on the one side and Assyria
and Babylonia on the other.

Egypt is the creation of the Nile. Outside the Delta and the strip of land which can be watered
from the river there is only desert. When the annual inundation covers the fields the land
of Egypt exists no more; it becomes a watery plain, out of which emerge the villages and towns
and the raised banks which serve as roads. For more than 1600 miles the Nile flows without
an affluent; in the spring it falls so low that its channel becomes almost unnavigable; but
in the late summer, its waters, swollen by the rains and melted snows of Central Africa, and
laden with the fertilising silt of the Abyssinian mountains, spread over the cultivated country,
and bring fertility wherever they go.

The waters of the inundation must have been confined by dykes, and made to flow where the cultivator
needed them, at a very remote date. Recent discoveries have thrown light on the early history
of the country. We find it inhabited by at least one race, possibly of Libyan origin, which
for the present we must term pre-historic. Its burial-places are met with in various localities
in Upper Egypt. The members of the race were not acquainted with the use of metals, but they
were expert artificers in stone and clay. Stone was skilfully carved into vessels of different
forms, and vases of clay were fashioned, with brightly polished surfaces. Sometimes the vases
were simply coloured red and black, or adorned with patterns and pictures in incised white
lines; at other times, and more especially in the later tombs, they were artistically decorated
with representations of men and animals, boats, and geometrical patterns in red upon a pale
drab ground.

The pre-historic race or races had already reached a fair level of civilisation--neolithic
in type though it may have been--when a new people appeared upon the scene, bringing with them
the elements of a high culture and a knowledge of working in metals. These were the Pharaonic
Egyptians, who seem to have come from Babylonia and the coasts of southern Arabia. Cities were
built and kingdoms were founded on the banks of the Nile, and the older population was forced
to become the serfs of the new-comers, to cultivate their fields, to confine the Nile within
artificial boundaries, and to carry out those engineering works which have made the valley
of the Nile what it is to-day.

The Pharaonic Egyptians are the Egyptians of history. They were acquainted with the art of
writing, they mummified their dead, and they possessed to a high degree the faculty of organisation.
The gods they worshipped were beneficent deities, forms of the Sun-god from whom their kings
derived their descent. It was a religion which easily passed into a sort of pantheistic monotheism
in the more cultivated minds, and it was associated with a morality which is almost Christian
in its character. A belief in a future world and a resurrection of the flesh formed an integral
part of it; hence came the practice of embalming the body that it might be preserved to the
day of resurrection; hence too the doctrine of the dead man's justification, not only through
his own good works, but through the intercession of the Sun-god Horus as well. Horus was addressed
as "the Redeemer;" he had avenged the death of his father Osiris upon his enemy Set, the lord
of evil, and through faith in him his followers were delivered from the powers of darkness.
Horus, however, and Osiris were but forms of the same deity. Horus was the Sun-god when he
rises in the morning; Osiris the Sun-god as he journeys at night through a world of darkness;
and both were identical with Tum, the Sun-god of the evening. The gods who watched over the
great cities of Egypt, some of which had been the capitals of principalities, were identified
with the Sun-god in these his various forms. Thus Ptah of Memphis became one with Osiris; so
also did Ra, the Sun-god of Heliopolis, while in those later days when Thebes rose to sovereign
power its local god Amon was united with Ra.

Along with this higher and spiritual religion went--at least in historical times--a worship
of sacred animals. The anomaly can be explained only by that mixture of races of which archaeology
has assured us. Beast-worship must have been the religion of the pre-historic inhabitants of
Egypt, and just as Brahmanism has thrown its protection over the superstitions of the aboriginal
tribes of India and identified the idols of the populace with its own gods, so too in ancient
Egypt a fusion of race must have brought about a fusion of ideas. The sacred animals of the
older cult were associated with the deities of the new-comers; in the eyes of the upper classes
they were but symbols; the lower classes continued to see in them what their fathers had seen,
the gods themselves. While the Pharaonic Egyptian adored Horus, the older race knew of Horus
only as a hawk. If we may trust Manetho, the Egyptian historian, it was not till the beginning
of the Second historical dynasty that the sacred animals of popular worship were received into
the official cult.

The Pharaonic Egyptian resembled in body and character the typical native of Central Egypt
to-day. He was long-headed, with a high and intellectual forehead, straight nose, and massive
lower jaw. His limbs were well-proportioned and muscular, his feet and hands were small. He
belonged to the white race, but his hair and eyes were black, the hair being also straight.
His artistic and intellectual faculties were highly developed, he was singularly good-tempered
and light-hearted, averse to cruelty, though subject at times to fits of fanatical excitement
and ferocity. At once obstinate and industrious, he never failed to carry out what he had once
taken in hand. The Nile valley was reclaimed for the use of man, and swamp and jungle, the
home of wild beasts and venomous serpents, were turned by his labours into a fruitful paradise.

By the side of the long-headed Egyptian of the ruling classes we find in the age of the earlier
dynasties a wholly different type, of which the famous wooden statue now in the Cairo Museum,
and commonly known as the "Shêkh el-Beled," may be taken as an illustration. Here the skull
is round instead of long, the lips and nostrils are thick and fleshy, the expression good-humoured
rather than intellectual. The type is that of a portion of the lower classes, and disappears
from the monuments after the fall of the Sixth dynasty. After that epoch the races which inhabited
Egypt were more completely fused together, and the rounded skull became rare.

Egyptian history begins with Menes, the founder of the united monarchy, and of the First historical
dynasty. Our glimpses of the age that preceded him--the age of the followers of Horus, as the
Egyptians termed it--are few and scanty. Egypt was divided into several kingdoms, which were
gradually unified into two only, those of the north and the south. The northern kingdom was
symbolised by the snake and papyrus, the southern kingdom by the vulture and aloe. The vulture
was the emblem of Nekheb, the goddess of the great fortress whose ruins are now called El-Kab;
and it is probable that the city of Nekhen, which stood opposite it on the western bank of
the Nile, was once the capital of the south. However this may be, when Menes mounted the throne
he was hereditary ruler of This, a city which adjoined the sacred burial-place of Osiris at
Abydos, and of which Girgeh is the modern successor.

Menes made himself master of the north, and so united all Egypt under one rule. He then undertook
and carried through a vast engineering work, one of the greatest the world has ever seen. The
Nile was turned aside out of its old channel under the Libyan cliffs into a new channel to
the east. The dyke which forced the river from its old course still remains, and two or three
thousand years before the bed of the valley had risen to its present level the destruction
of the dyke would have meant the return of the Nile to its former path. North of the dyke English
engineers have found that the alluvial soil bears witness to interference with the natural
course of the river of a far-reaching kind, and its long straight course resembles that of
a canal rather than of the naturally winding stream of the Nile.

On the embankment thus won from the waters Menes built his capital, which bore the two names
of Men-nefer or Memphis, "the Beautiful Place," and Hâ-ka-Ptah or Ægyptos, "the Temple of the
Double of Ptah." On the north side of it, in fact, stood the temple of Ptah, the local god,
the scanty remains of which are still visited by the tourist. In front of the shrine was the
sacred lake across which, on days of festival, the image of the god was ferried, and which
now serves as a village pond.

Menes was followed by six dynasties of kings, who reigned in all 1478 years. The tombs of the
two first dynasties have been found at Abydos. Menes himself was buried on the edge of the
desert near Negada, about twenty miles to the north of Thebes. His sepulchre was built in rectangular
form, of crude bricks, and filled with numerous chambers, in the innermost and largest of which
the corpse of the king was laid. Then wood was heaped about the walls and the whole set on
fire, so that the royal body and the objects that were buried with it were half consumed by
the heat. The mode of burial was peculiar to Babylonia. Here, in an alluvial plain, where stone
was not procurable, and where the cemeteries of the dead adjoined the houses of the living,
brick was needful instead of stone, and sanitary considerations made cremation necessary. But
in the desert of Egypt, at the foot of rocky cliffs, such customs were out of place; their
existence can be explained only by their importation from abroad. The use of seal-cylinders
of Babylonian pattern, and of clay as a writing material, in the age of Menes and his successors,
confirms the conclusion to which the mode of burial points. The culture of Pharaonic Egypt
must have been derived from the banks of the Euphrates.

That Menes should have been buried at Negada, and not, like the rest of his dynasty, in the
sacred necropolis of his mother-city, is strange. But we are told that he was slain by a hippopotamus,
the Egyptian symbol of a foe. It may be, therefore, that he fell fighting in battle, and that
his sepulchre was erected near the scene of his death. However that may be, the other monarchs
of the first two dynasties were entombed at Abydos, The mode of burial was the same as in the
case of Menes.

The objects found in the tombs of Menes and his successors prove that the culture of Egypt
was already far advanced. The hieroglyphic system of writing was fully developed, tools and
weapons of bronze were used in large quantities, the hardest stones of the Red Sea coast were
carved into exquisitely-shaped vases, plaques of ivory were engraved with high artistic finish,
and even obsidian was worked into vases by means of the lathe. As the nearest source of obsidian
to Egypt that is known are the islands of Santorin and Melos in the Ægean Sea, there must have
already been a maritime trade with the Greek seas. Art had already reached maturity; a small
dog carved out of ivory and discovered in the tomb of Menes is equal to the best work of later
days. Finally, the titles assumed by the Pharaohs are already placed above the double name
of the king, and the symbols employed to denote them are the same as those which continued
in use down to the end of the Egyptian monarchy.

The first six dynasties are known to Egyptologists as the Old Empire. Kings of the Fourth dynasty,
Khufu, Khafra, and Menkaura, built the great pyramids of Giza, the largest of which is still
one of the wonders of the world. Its huge granite blocks are planed with mathematical exactitude,
and, according to Professor Flinders Petrie, have been worked by means of tubular drills fitted
with the points of emeralds or some equally hard stone. It was left for the nineteenth century
to re-discover the instrument when the Mont Cenis tunnel was half completed. The copper for
the bronze tools employed by the workmen was brought from the mines of Sinai, where the Egyptian
kings had kept an armed garrison for many generations; the tin mixed with the copper must have
come from India and the Malayan Peninsula, or else from Spain and Britain.

While the Fifth and Sixth dynasties were reigning, exploring expeditions were sent into the
lands of the Upper Nile. The two dynasties had sprung from the island of Elephantinê, opposite
Assuan; it was, therefore, perhaps natural that they should take an interest in the country
to the south. One expedition made its way into the land of Punt, to the north of Abyssinia,
and brought back a Danga dwarf, whose tribal name still survives under the form of Dongo. Later
expeditions explored the banks of the Nile as far south as the country of the Dwarfs, as well
as the oases of Libya.

The Old Empire was followed by a period of decline. Egypt was overrun by barbarians, its kings
lost their power, and the whole land suffered decay. The pyramid tombs of the Old Empire were
entered and despoiled; the bodies of the monarchs within them were torn to pieces, and the
precious objects that had been buried with them were carried away. As the power of the kings
diminished, that of the great landowners and nobles increased; a feudal aristocracy grew up,
which divided Egypt between its members, and treated the royal authority with only nominal
respect. Memphis ceased to be the capital, and a new dynasty, the Ninth, was founded by the
feudal prince of Herakleopolis, now Ahnas, south of the Fayyûm. For a time the Tenth dynasty
succeeded in reducing its rebellious vassals to obedience, but the princes of Thebes steadily
grew in strength, and at length one of them seized the throne of the Pharaohs and established
the Eleventh dynasty. Thebes became the capital of the kingdom, and under the Twelfth dynasty
was the capital of an empire.

Once more Egypt revived. The power of the aristocracy was broken, and the local princes became
court officials. Temples were built, and engineering works undertaken all over the country.
The ancient temple of Ra at Heliopolis was restored, and two obelisks, one of which is still
standing, were planted in front of it. The depression west of the Nile, now known as the Fayyûm,
was drained of its waters, and by means of embankments transformed from a pestiferous marsh
into fertile fields. The Nile was brought to it by a river-like canal, and the supply of water
regulated by locks. Fresh exploring expeditions were sent to the Somali coast and elsewhere.
The gold-mines of Hammamât were worked in the eastern desert, and Egypt became the California
or Australia of the ancient world. The eastern frontier was defended against the Asiatic tribes,
while campaign after campaign was carried on in the south, resulting in the conquest of the Sudan.

The Thirteenth dynasty came to an end in the midst of internal troubles. The short reigns of
the kings of the dynasty that followed show that the line of the Pharaohs was again becoming
feeble. It closed in disaster and overthrow. Hordes of invaders poured into Egypt from Asia
and overran the whole country. They are known as the Hyksos or Shepherds, and the greater part
of them were of Semitic descent. For 669 years they ruled the valley of the Nile in three dynasties,
and the recollection of their hated sway never faded from the Egyptian mind. At first they
burned and plundered, then they established themselves in Memphis and Zoan, and from thence
governed the rest of the country. But they soon submitted to the influence of Egyptian culture.
The conquered people took their conquerors captive, and the Hyksos kings became veritable Pharaohs.
The manners and customs, the writing and titles of the native monarchs were adopted, and, in
course of time, even the language also. The court was filled with native officials, the cities
and temples were restored, and Egyptian learning was patronised. One of the few Egyptian treatises
on mathematics that have come down to us is dedicated to a Hyksos sovereign. It was only in
religion that the new rulers of Egypt remained foreign.

They continued to worship a form of the Semitic Baal, who was invoked under the Hittite name
of Sutekh. An attempt to impose his worship upon the native Egyptians led to the war of independence
which ended in the expulsion of the stranger. Apophis III., of the Seventeenth dynasty, sent
messengers to Skenen-Ra, the prince of Thebes, bidding him renounce Amon of Thebes for the
god of his suzerain. Skenen-Ra resisted, and a long war followed, which, after lasting through
five generations, resulted in the complete triumph of the Egyptians. The Hyksos were driven
back into Asia, and the prince of Thebes was acknowledged the Pharaoh of an united Egypt (B.C.
1600).

It was while the Hyksos kings were reigning that Abraham visited the Delta. Their court was
held at Zoan, now Sân, close to the Asiatic frontier, and on the frontier itself stood their
fortress of Avaris, which served at once to bar the way from Asia and to overawe the conquered
Egyptians. The Pharaoh of Joseph was probably Apophis III. If so, the Hebrew vizier would have
witnessed the outbreak of the war of independence towards the close of the long reign of the
Hyksos king. It may be that the policy which transferred the soil of Egypt from the people
to the king and the priests gave its first impulse to the movement.

The Eighteenth dynasty founded an Egyptian empire. Its kings carried the war into Asia, and
planted the boundaries of Egyptian dominion on the banks of the Euphrates. Thothmes III. (B.C.
1503-1449) made Canaan an Egyptian province, dividing it into districts, each under a governor
or a vassal prince, who was visited from time to time by a royal commissioner. Carriage roads
were constructed, with posting inns at intervals along them where food and lodging could be
procured. The country east of the Jordan equally obeyed Egyptian rule. The plateau of Bashan
was governed by a single prefect; Ammon and Moab were tributary; Edom alone retained its independence,
thanks to its barren mountains, and inaccessible ravines. Thebes, the capital of the dynasty,
was adorned with splendid buildings, and all the wealth and luxury of Asia was poured into
it. Thothmes established zoological and botanical gardens, where the strange plants, birds,
and animals he had collected in his campaigns could be preserved. His immediate predecessor,
Queen Hatshepsu, had already revived the exploring expeditions of earlier centuries. An exploring
fleet had been sent by her to Punt, the land of frankincense, and it returned home with rarities
of all kinds, including apes and giraffes. The history of the expedition and the treasures
it brought back were depicted on the walls of the temple built by the queen at Dêr el-Bâhari,
after the design of the architect Sen-Mut.

The authority of Egypt was not extended to the Euphrates only. Cyprus sent tribute to the Pharaoh,
the coasts of Asia Minor, perhaps also of Greece, were harried, and the Sudan was conquered
as far south as Berber, if not Khartûm. Under Amen-hotep III., the grandson of Thothmes III.,
the empire underwent still farther extension. Egyptian temples were erected on the banks of
the Upper Nile, and Napata, the future capital of Ethiopia, was built at Gebel Barkal, beyond
Dongola.

In Asia, Mitanni was the first neighbour of Egypt that had maintained its independence. Assyria
and the Mesopotamian prince of Singar or Shinar had paid tribute to Thothmes III.; so, too,
had the Hittite king, and even Babylonia had been forced to acquiesce sullenly in the annexation
by Egypt of her old province of Canaan, and to beg for gifts of gold from the Egyptian mines.
But Mitanni was too powerful to be attacked. Her royal family accordingly married into the
Solar race of Egypt. One of her princesses was the mother of Amen-hotep III.; another was probably
the mother of his son and successor, Amen-hotep IV.

Amen-hotep IV. was one of the most remarkable monarchs that have ever sat upon a throne. His
father died while he was still a boy, and he was brought up under the Asiatic influences of
his mother Teie. But he was a philosopher by nature rather than a king. The purpose of his
life was to reform the religion of Egypt, to replace it, in fact, by a pantheistic monotheism,
the visible symbol of which was the solar disk. For the first time in history a religious persecution
was entered on; the worship of Amon, the god of Thebes, was proscribed, and his very name erased
from the monuments. Amen-hotep changed his own name to Khu-n-Aten, "the glory of the solar
disk," and every effort was made to extirpate the state religion, of which he was himself the
official head. But the ancient priesthood of Thebes proved too strong for the king. He left
the city of his fathers, and built a new capital farther north, where its ruins are now known
as Tel el-Amarna. Here he lived with the adherents of the new creed, and here he erected a
temple to the god of his worship and a stately palace for himself.

Along with the reformation in religion had gone a reformation in art. The old conventionalised
art of Egypt was cast aside, and an attempt was made to imitate nature, exactly, even to the
verge of caricature. The wall and floor paintings that have been discovered at Tel el-Amarna
are marvels of realistic art. Plants and animals and birds are alike represented in them with
a spirit and faithfulness to nature which is indeed astonishing. Like the houses of his followers,
the palace of the king was adorned with similar frescoes. But it was also decorated with a
lavish profusion of precious materials; its walls and columns were inlaid with gold and bronze
and precious stones, statues almost Greek in their type stood within it, and even its stuccoed
floors were covered with costly paintings. Roads were made in the desert eastward of the city,
where its wealthier inhabitants took their morning drives, and the king occupied the earlier
part of the clay in giving lectures or sermons on the articles of his faith.

The archives of the empire had been transferred from Thebes to the new capital. Among them
was the foreign correspondence, written upon clay tablets in the cuneiform characters, and
(for the most part) in the language of Babylonia. We have learnt from it that the Babylonian
language and script were the common means of intercommunication from the Euphrates to the Nile
in the century before the Exodus. It proves how long and how profound must have been the influence
and rule of Babylonia in western Asia. Throughout the civilised world of Asia the educated
classes were compelled to learn a foreign writing and language, and when the empire passed
from Babylonia to Egypt, Egypt itself, whose script and literature went back to immemorial
times, was forced to do the same. The correspondence was active and far-reaching. There are
letters in it from the kings of Babylonia and Assyria, of Mitanni and Cappadocia, as well as
from the Egyptian governors in Canaan. Even Bedâwin shêkhs take part in it, and the letters
are sometimes on the most trivial of subjects. It is clear that schools and libraries must
have existed throughout the civilised East, where the Babylonian characters could be taught
and learned, and where Babylonian literature and official correspondence could be stored up.
Among the tablets found at Tel el-Amarna are some fragments of Babylonian literature, one of
which has served as a lesson-book, and traces of dictionaries have also been discovered there.

The religious reforms of Khu-n-Aten resulted in the fall of the dynasty and the Egyptian empire.
The letters from Canaan, more especially those from the vassal-king of Jerusalem, show that
the power of Egypt in Asia was on the wane. The Hittites were advancing from the north, Mitanni
and Babylonia were intriguing with disaffected Canaanites, and the Canaanitish governors themselves
were at war with one another. The Pharaoh is entreated to send help speedily; if his troops
do not come at once, it is reputed, they will come too late. But it would seem that the troops
could not be spared at home. There, too, civil war was breaking out, and though Khu-n-Aten
died before the end came, his sepulchre was profaned, his mummy rent to pieces, and the city
he had built destroyed. The stones of the temple of his god were sent to Thebes, there to be
used in the service of the victorious Amon; and the tombs prepared for his mother and his followers
remained empty. In the national reaction against the Asiatised court and religion of Khu-n-Aten,
the Canaanitish foreigners who had usurped the highest offices were either put to death or
driven into exile, and a new dynasty, the Nineteenth, arose, whose policy was "Egypt for the
Egyptians."

Ramses I. was regarded as the founder of the Nineteenth dynasty. His reign was short, and he
was followed by his son Seti I., who once more led his armies into Asia and subdued the coast-land
of Syria. Seti was succeeded by his son Ramses II., who died at a great age after a reign of
sixty-seven years (B.C. 1348-1281), and whose mummy, like that of his father, is now in the
Cairo Museum. He set himself to restore the Asiatic empire of Thothmes. But the Hittites barred
his way. They had established themselves at Kadesh on the Orontes, and a long war of twenty-one
years ended at last in a treaty of peace in which the two combatants agreed to respect from
henceforth the existing boundaries of Egypt and Kadesh. Egypt was left with Palestine on both
sides of the Jordan, a possession, however, which it lost soon after Ramses' death. The treaty
was cemented by the marriage of the Hittite princess with the Pharaoh.

Ramses II. was the great builder of Egypt. Go where we will, we find the remains of the temples
he erected or restored, of the cities he founded, and of the statues he set up. His architectural
conceptions were colossal; the temple of Abu-Simbel, hewn out of a mountain, and the shattered
image of himself at Thebes, are a proof of this. But he attempted too much for the compass
of a single reign, however long. Much of his work is pretentious but poor, and indicative of
the feverish haste with which it was executed.

Among the cities he built in the Delta were Ramses and Pithom. Pithom, or Pa-Tum, is now marked
by the mounds of Tel el-Maskhuta, on the line of railway between Ismailîa and Zagazig; it lay
at the eastern extremity of Qoshem or Goshen, in the district of Succoth. Like Ramses, it had
been built by Israelitish labour, for the free-born Israelites of Goshen had been turned into
royal serfs. None had suffered more from the revolution which overthrew the Asiatised court
of the Eighteenth dynasty and brought in a "new king which knew not Joseph."

They had been settled in the strip of pasture-land which borders the Freshwater Canal of to-day,
and is still a place of resort for the Bedâwin from the east. It lay apart from the cultivated
lands of the Egyptian peasantry, it adjoined the desert which led to Asia, and it was near
the Hyksos capital of Zoan. Meneptah, the son and successor of Ramses II., tells us that from
of old it had been given by the Pharaohs to the nomad shepherds of Asia; and after the departure
of the Israelitish tribes the same king is informed in a letter from one of his officials that
the deserted district had been again handed over to Bedâwin from Edom. This was in the eighth
year of the king's reign, three years later than that in which the Exodus must have taken place.

For 400 years the Israelites had been "afflicted" by the Egyptians. But while the Eighteenth
dynasty was in power their lot could not have been hard. They still remained the free herdsmen
of the Pharaoh, feeding their flocks and cattle on the royal demesne. During the reign of Khu-n-Aten,
indeed, their own Semitic kinsmen from Canaan held the chief offices of state, and the Pharaoh
was endeavouring to force upon his subjects a form of monotheism which had much in common with
that of Israel. The language of the hymns engraved on the walls of the tombs at Tel el-Amarna
reads not unfrequently like the verses of a Hebrew Psalm.

The national reaction which found its expression in the rise of the Eighteenth dynasty swept
away the power and influence of Asia, and brought back the gods and religion of Egypt. The
Semites who had absorbed the government of the country were expelled or slain; their weaker
brethren, the Israelites in Goshen, were enslaved. Egypt became for them a house of bondage,
and they had to toil under the lash of the taskmaster at the cities and temples which the Pharaoh
built. Ramses held his court at Zoan, like the Hyksos of old days, but it was to keep guard
over the Asiatic frontier, not to be in touch with a kindred people in Canaan. Canaan itself
was conquered afresh, and the Canaanitish captives--the "mixed multitude" of the Bible--assisted
the Israelites in erecting the monuments of their conqueror.

Nevertheless, the people multiplied. The memory of the Hyksos invasion had not passed away,
and the Pharaoh and his subjects alike feared the possibility of other invaders from Asia being
joined by their disaffected kinsfolk in Egypt itself. That their fears were justified is shown
by what happened less than a century later. When the Nineteenth dynasty fell in the midst of
civil war, a Canaanite, Arisu by name, seized the throne and made himself master of Egypt.
Ramses determined to prevent such a catastrophe by destroying as many as possible of the male
children of the Hebrews. The men were worn down in body and mind by constant labour, the children
were not allowed to live.

Egyptian testimony confirms the statement of Scripture that this policy was actually carried
out. A hymn of victory addressed to Meneptah alludes to "the Israelites" to whom "no seed"
had been left. But the policy was ineffectual. The opportunity came at last when the serfs
could fly from their enforced labour and escape into the wilderness.

It was in the fifth year of Meneptah (B.C. 1276). Egypt was threatened by formidable enemies.
The Libyans advanced against it by land, the nations of the Greek seas attacked it by water.
Achæans came from the north, Lycians from Asia Minor, Sardinians and Sicilians from the islands
of the west. The Delta was overrun by swarms of barbarians, who pitched their tents in front
of Belbeis at the western end of the land of Goshen. Plague after plague descended upon the
Egyptians, and the freedom of his serfs was wrung from the Pharaoh. They fled by night, carrying
with them the spoil they had taken from their masters, only to find that the gate of the great
line of fortification which protected the eastern frontier of Egypt was closed against them.
Meneptah had repented of his act, and a squadron of six hundred chariots was sent in pursuit
of the fugitives.

But a violent wind drove back the sea from the shallows at the southern extremity of the forts,
and enabled the Israelites to cross them. While their pursuers were following in their footsteps,
the dropping of the wind caused the waters to return upon them, and chariots, horses, and men
were alike overwhelmed. The Israelites were saved as it were by miracle, and the Pharaoh lost
his bondsmen.

But Egypt also succeeded in repelling the storm of invasion which had fallen upon it. The Libyans
and their northern allies were annihilated in a decisive battle, their king, Murai, fled from
the field, and a countless amount of booty and prisoners fell into the hands of the victorious
Egyptians. Canaan, however, was lost, with the exception of Gaza, which defended the road from
Egypt, and was still garrisoned by Egyptian troops. But Gaza, the Calais of Egypt, was not
destined to remain long in their power. Already the coast-road was made dangerous by the attacks
of Philistine pirates from Crete; and it was not long before the pirates took permanent possession
of the southern corner of Palestine, and established themselves in its five chief towns. The
Egyptian domination in Asia had passed away for ever.

After Meneptah's death the Nineteenth dynasty soon came to an inglorious end. Civil war distracted
the country, and for a time it obeyed the rule of a foreign chief. Then came the rise of the
Twentieth dynasty, and a third Ramses restored the prestige and prosperity of his kingdom.
But once more the foreign invader was upon its soil. The nations of the north had again poured
southward, partly by land, partly by sea, greedy for the wealth that was stored in the cultured
lands of the Oriental world, and eager to find new settlements for an expanding population.
Greek traditions spoke of the movement as a consequence of the Trojan war, and delighted to
dwell on the voyages of its heroes into unknown seas, of the piratical descents to which it
led, and of the colonies which were planted by it. The Philistine occupation of southern Palestine
was one of its results.

As in the time of Meneptah, the Libyans took part with the northern tribes in the assault upon
Egypt, and Sardinians and Sicilians followed behind them. But the main bulk of the invaders
came from the Greek seas. The Danaans take the place of the Achæans, and the Philistines are
among their allies. The invaders had swept through western Asia, plundering and destroying
as they marched, and bringing in their train contingents from the countries through which they
passed. Hittites, Mitannians, and Amorites all followed with them, and the motley host of men
and ships finally reached the Egyptian frontier. Here, however, they were met by the Pharaoh.
The battle raged by sea and land, and ended in a triumph of the Egyptians. The invaders were
utterly overthrown, their ships burned, their kings and leaders made captive. Egypt was once
more saved from destruction, and Ramses III. was free to develop its resources and repair the
damage that had been done.

First came a campaign in Canaan and Syria, the object of which was not to acquire territory,
but to teach the Asiatic that there was once more an army in Egypt. The Egyptian forces seem
to have gone as far as Hamath; at all events, they occupied southern Palestine, capturing Gaza,
Hebron, and Jerusalem, and made their way across the Jordan into Moab. Another campaign carried
the Egyptian troops into Edom, where they burned the "tents" of the Bedâwin, and for the first
and last time in history planted the Egyptian standard on the slopes of Mount Seir. Ramses
now turned to the internal administration of his country, and the copper-mines of Sinai, like
the gold-mines of the eastern desert, were worked with fresh vigour. The spoil won from the
northern invaders made the Pharaoh the richest monarch of the age. Temples were built, and
endowed with lavish generosity, and the priesthood must have grieved when he died at last after
a reign of thirty-three years.

He was followed by a line of feeble princes. The high-priests of Amon at Thebes usurped their
power, and finally dispossessed the last of them of the throne. A new dynasty arose in the
Delta. In the south the government was practically in the hands of the Theban high-priests.
With a divided kingdom the strength of Egypt passed away.

It was restored by a foreigner, Shishak I., the captain of the Libyan mercenaries. The Pharaoh
whose daughter was married by Solomon must have been the last king of the old dynasty. Perhaps
he sought to strengthen himself against his enemies in Egypt by an alliance with his powerful
neighbour. At all events, the King of Israel allowed his army to march through Palestine as
far as Gezer. The Egyptians flattered themselves that they had thereby asserted their old claim
to sovereignty over Palestine, but the substantial gainer was the Israelitish monarch. He won
the last independent Canaanite city without effort or expenditure, and was allowed to marry
into the Solar race.

Shishak had no need of Israelitish alliances. On the contrary, Solomon was connected by marriage
with the dethroned dynasty, and the power of Israel, if unchecked, was a menace to his own
kingdom. But while Solomon lived he was afraid to move. He kept at his court, however, an Israelitish
rebel, who might prove useful when the time came. Hardly was Solomon dead when Jeroboam returned
to his native country, and the kingdom of David was sundered in twain. Shishak seized the opportunity
of striking a blow at what remained of it. With contemptuous impartiality he overran the territories
of both Judah and the revolted tribes, but it was Judah which suffered the most. The unfinished
fortifications of Jerusalem were stormed, the treasures accumulated by Solomon carried to the
Nile, and the King of Judah compelled to acknowledge himself the vassal of Shishak. Judah never
recovered from the blow: had it not been for the Egyptian invasion, and the consequent loss
of its hoarded wealth, it might have been able to suppress the rebellion of Jeroboam, and to
reduce all the tribes of Israel once more under one sceptre. The names of the captured cities
of Palestine are still to be read on the walls of the temple of Karnak.

Shishak's successors of the Twenty-second dynasty did not inherit his military vigour and skill.
The central authority grew gradually weaker, and Egypt again fell back into the condition from
which he had rescued it. The tribes of the Sûdan could no longer be hindered from attacking
the enfeebled land, and Ethiopian princes made their way to Memphis, carrying back with them
to their capital of Napata the spoil and tribute of a defeated and disunited people. At last
the Ethiopian raids changed into permanent conquest, and a negro dynasty--the Twenty-fifth--sat
on the throne of Menes.

But the kings who belonged to it, Shabaka and Taharka, were vigorous, and for a short while
there was peace in the valley of the Nile. Assyria, however, had already arisen in its strength,
and was claiming the empire over western Asia which had belonged to Babylon in the dawn of
history. The states of Palestine endeavoured in vain to play off Assyria against Egypt. Again
and again the Egyptian armies were defeated on the borders of Canaan, and Taharka was saved
from invasion only by the disaster which befell Sennacherib during his siege of Jerusalem.
But the respite was only momentary. Asia at last submitted to the dominion of Nineveh, the
King of Judah became an Assyrian vassal, and Esar-haddon, the successor of Sennacherib, was
now ready to march against the land of the Nile. In B.C. 674 he entered the Delta and scattered
the forces of the Ethiopians. But two more campaigns were needed before the country was thoroughly
subdued. At last, in June B.C. 670, he drove the Egyptian forces before him in fifteen days
from the frontier to Memphis, twice defeating them with heavy loss and wounding Taharka himself.
Three days later Memphis opened its gates, and Taharka fled to Egypt, leaving Egypt in the
hands of the Assyrian. It was divided among twenty satraps, most of whom were Egyptians by birth.

Two years, however, were hardly past when it revolted, and while on the march to subdue it
Esar-haddon fell ill, and died on the 10th of Marchesvan or October. But the revolt was quickly
suppressed by his successor Assur-bani-pal, and the twenty satrapies restored. It was not long,
however, before the satraps quarrelled with one another, intrigued with Taharka, and rebelled
against their suzerain. Headed by Necho of Sais, they invited the Ethiopians to return; but
the plot was discovered, and Necho and his fellow-conspirators sent in chains to Nineveh. Sais,
Mendes, and other cities of northern Egypt were sacked, and Taharka, who had advanced as far
as Thebes and even Memphis, fled to Ethiopia and there died. Meanwhile Necho had been pardoned
and loaded with honours by the Assyrian king; his son, who took an Assyrian name, was made
satrap of Athribis, near the modern Benha, and the satraps of the Delta henceforward remained
faithful to their Assyrian master. But another Ethiopian prince, Tuant-Amon, made a last attempt
to recover the dominion of his fathers. Thebes received him with acclamation, and Memphis was
taken without difficulty. There the satrap of Goshen came to pay him homage on behalf of his
brother-governors in the north.

His triumph, however, was short-lived. Assur-bani-pal determined to inflict a terrible punishment
on the rebel country, and to reduce it to subjection once for all. Thebes had been the centre
of disaffection; its priesthood looked with impatience on the rule of the Asiatic, and were
connected by religion and tradition with Ethiopia; on Thebes and its priesthood, therefore,
the punishment had to fall. The Ethiopian army retreated to Nubia without striking a blow,
and Egypt was left defenceless at the mercy of the Assyrian. The Assyrian army entered Thebes,
the No or "City" of Amon, bent on the work of destruction. Its temple-strongholds were plundered
and overthrown, its inhabitants carried into slavery, and two obelisks, seventy tons in weight,
were sent as trophies to Nineveh. The sack of Thebes made a deep impression on the Oriental
world; we find it referred to in the prophecies of Nahum (iii. 8).

Egypt now enjoyed peace, but it was the peace of exhaustion and powerlessness. Psammetikhos
had succeeded his father Necho, who had been put to death by Tuant-Amon. He was a man of vigour
and ability, and he aimed at nothing less than sovereignty over an united and independent Egypt.
His opportunity came in B.C. 655. The Assyrian empire was shaken to its foundations by a revolt
of which Babylonia was the centre and which had spread to its other provinces. For a time it
was called on to struggle for bare existence. While the Assyrian armies were employed elsewhere,
Psammetikhos shook himself free of its authority, and, with the help of Greek and Karian mercenaries
from Lydia, overcame his rival satraps and mounted the throne of the Pharaohs. Once more, under
the Twenty-sixth dynasty, Egypt enjoyed rest and prosperity; the administration was re-organised,
the cities and temples restored, and art underwent an antiquarian revival. Psammetikhos even
dreamed of recovering the old supremacy of Egypt in Asia; the Assyrian empire was falling into
decay, and Egypt was endeavouring to model its life after the pattern of the past. After a
long siege Ashdod was taken, and the control of the road into Palestine was thus secured.

But the power of the Twenty-sixth dynasty rested upon its Greek mercenaries. The kings themselves
were, it is probable, Libyans by descent, and the feelings of the native priesthood towards
them do not seem to have been cordial. Their policy and ideas were European rather than Egyptian.
Necho, the son and successor of Psammetikhos, cleared out the old canal which united the Red
Sea with the Nile, and did all that he could to encourage trade with the Mediterranean. An
exploring fleet was even sent under Phoenician pilots to circumnavigate Africa. Three years
were spent on the voyage, and the ships finally returned through the Straits of Gibraltar to
the mouths of the Nile. Meanwhile, the Pharaoh had marched into Palestine. Gaza was captured,
and the Jewish king, Josiah, slain in his attempt to bar the way of his unexpected enemy. Jerusalem
surrendered, and a nominee of the Egyptians was placed upon its throne.

The Asiatic empire of the Eighteenth dynasty was thus restored. But it lasted barely three
years. In B.C. 605 the Egyptians were defeated by Nebuchadrezzar under the walls of Carchemish
on the Euphrates, and Asia passed into the possession of the Babylonians. Once more Palestine
became a shuttlecock between the kingdoms of the Nile and the Euphrates. Trusting to the support
of Egypt, Zedekiah of Judah revolted from his Babylonian master. His policy at first seemed
successful. The Babylonian army which was besieging Jerusalem retired on the approach of Psammetikhos
II., who had succeeded his father Necho, and the Jewish statesmen again breathed freely. But
the respite lasted for only six years. The Babylonian troops returned with increased strength;
the Egyptians retreated to their own country, and Jerusalem fell in B.C. 588, one year after
the death of the Egyptian king.

His son Hophra or Apries had made a vain attempt to rescue Zedekiah. His fleet had held the
sea, while his army marched along the coast of Palestine and occupied Tyre and Sidon. But the
fall of Jerusalem obliged it to retire. The dream of an Asiatic empire was over, and the Pharaoh
had more than enough to do to defend himself against his own subjects. They saw with growing
impatience that the power and wealth of the Greek mercenaries continually increased. The native
army had already deserted to Ethiopia; now the priests complained that the revenues of the
temples were sacrilegiously confiscated for the support of the foreigner. In B.C. 570 discontent
reached a head; civil war broke out between Hophra and his brother-in-law Ahmes or Amasis,
which ended in the defeat of Hophra and his loss of the crown.

But Amasis found the Greeks more indispensable than ever, and they were loaded with favours
even more than before. They were moved to Memphis that they might be close to the king, and
at the same time overawe the native Egyptians, and Amasis himself married a Greek wife. The
invasion of Egypt by Nebuchadrezzar in B.C. 567 showed that the policy of Amasis had been a
wise one. The Babylonians were unable to penetrate beyond the eastern part of the Delta; the
Greek troops fought too well. The limits of the Babylonian empire were permanently fixed at
the frontiers of Palestine.

That empire, however, was overthrown by Cyrus, and it was easy to see that the conqueror who
had proved so irresistible in Asia would not allow Egypt to remain at peace. Amasis prepared
himself accordingly for the coming storm. Cyprus was occupied, and therewith the command of
the sea was assured. The maritime policy of the Twenty-sixth dynasty was an indication of Greek
influence; in older days the sea had been to the Egyptian a thing abhorred.

Kambyses carried out the invasion which his father, Cyrus, had planned. Unfortunately for the
Egyptians, Amasis died while the Persian army was on its march, and the task of opposing it
fell to his young and inexperienced son. The Greek mercenaries fought bravely, but to no purpose:
the battle of Pelusium gave Egypt to the invader, Memphis was taken, and the Pharaoh put to
death. In the long struggle between Asia and Egypt, Asia had been finally the victor.

The Egyptians did not submit tamely to the Persian yoke. Kambyses indeed seemed inclined to
change himself into an Egyptian Pharaoh; he took up his residence at Memphis and sent an expedition
to conquer the Sudân. But under Darius and his successors, whose Zoroastrian monotheism was
of a sterner description, there was but little sympathy between the conquered and their conquerors.
Time after time the Egyptians broke into revolt, once against Xerxes, once again against Artaxerxes
I., and a third time against Artaxerxes II. The last insurrection was more successful than
those which had preceded it, and Egypt remained independent for sixty-five years. Then the
crimes and incompetence of its last native king, Nektanebo II., opened the way to the Persian,
and the valley of the Nile once more bowed its neck under the Persian yoke. Its temples were
ruined, the sacred Apis slain, and an ass set up in mockery in its place.

A few years later Egypt welcomed the Macedonian Alexander as a deliverer, and recognised him
as a god. The line of the Pharaohs, the incarnations of the Sun-god, had returned in him to
the earth. It was not the first time that the Egyptian and the Greek had stood side by side
against the common Persian foe. Greek troops had disputed the passage of Kambyses into Egypt.
The first revolt of Egypt had saved Greece from the impending invasion of Darius, and postponed
it to the reign of his feebler son, and during its second revolt Athenian ships had sailed
up the Nile and assisted the Egyptians in the contest with the Persians. If Egypt could not
be free, it was better that its master should be a Greek.

Alexander was followed by the Ptolemies. They were the ablest of his successors, the earlier
of them being equally great in war and in peace. Alexandria, founded by Alexander on the site
of the village of Rakotis, became the commercial and literary centre of the world; thousands
of books were collected in its Library, and learned professors lectured in the halls of its
Museum. An elaborate fiscal system was devised and carefully superintended, and enormous revenues
poured into the treasury of the king. As time passed on, the Ptolemies identified themselves
more and more with their subjects; the temples were rebuilt or restored, and the Greek king
assumed the attributes of a Pharaoh. The Jews flocked into the country, where special privileges
were granted to them, and where many of them were raised to offices of state. A rival temple
to that of Jerusalem was built at Onion near Heliopolis, the modern Tel el-Yahudîya, or "Mound
of the Jews," and the books of the Hebrew Scriptures were translated into Greek. A copy of
the Septuagint, as the Greek translation was called, was needed for the Alexandrine Library.

Egypt, once the house of bondage, thus became a second house of Israel. It gave the world a
new version of the Hebrew Bible which largely influenced the writers of the New Testament;
it gave it also a new Canon which was adopted by the early Christian Church. The prophecy of
Isaiah was fulfilled: "The Lord shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord."

In the course of centuries, however, the monotheistic element in Egyptian religion had grown
clearer and more pronounced in the minds of the educated classes. The gods of the official
cult ceased to be regarded as different forms of the same deity; they became mere manifestations
of a single all-pervading power. As M. Grébaut puts it: they were "the names received by a
single Being in his various attributes and workings.... As the Eternal, who existed before
all worlds, then as organiser of the universe, and finally as the Providence who each day watches
over his work, he is always the same being, reuniting in his essence all the attributes of
divinity." It was the hidden God who was adored under the name whatever the latter might be,
the God who is described in the texts as "without form" and "whose name is a mystery," and
of whom it is said that He is the one God, "beside whom there is no other." In Ptah of Memphis
or Amon of Thebes or Ra of Heliopolis, the more educated Egyptian recognised but a name and
symbol for the deity which underlay them all.

Along with this growth in a spiritual conception of religion went, as was natural, a growth
in scepticism. There was a sceptical as well as a believing school, such as finds its expression
in the festal Dirge of King Antef of the Eleventh dynasty. Here we read in Canon Rawnsley's
versified translation--

    "What is fortune? say the wise.
        Vanished are the hearths and homes,
    What he does or thinks, who dies,
        None to tell us comes.

    Eat and drink in peace to-day,
        When you go, your goods remain;
    He who fares the last, long way,
        Comes not back again."

A curious work of much later date that has come down to us is in the form of a discussion between
an Ethiopian cat and the unbelieving jackal Kufi, in which the arguments of a sceptical philosophy
are urged with such force and sympathy as to show that they were the author's own. But such
scepticism was confined to the few; the Egyptian enjoys this life too much, as a rule, to be
troubled by doubts about another, and he has always been distinguished by an intensity of religious
belief.

With his religion there were associated ideas and beliefs some of which have a strangely Christian
ring. He was a believer in the resurrection of the body; hence the care that was taken from
the time of the Third dynasty onwards to preserve it by embalmment, and to place above the
heart the scarab beetle, the symbol of evolution, which by its magical powers would cause it
to beat again. Hence, too, the long texts from the Ritual of the Dead which enabled the deceased
to pass in safety through the perils that encompassed the entrance to the next world, as well
as the endeavour to place the corpse where it should not be found and injured.

The Egyptian believed also in a Messiah. Thus, in a papyrus of the time of Thothmes III., we
read that "a king will come from the south, Ameni the truth-declaring by name.... He will assume
the crown of Upper Egypt, and will lift up the red crown of Lower Egypt.... The people of the
age of the Son of Man will rejoice, and establish his name for all eternity. They will be far
from evil, and the wicked will humble their mouths for fear of him. The Asiatics will fall
before his blows, and the Libyans before his flame."

Even the conception of a son who is born of a virgin and a god is met with in the temples of
Hatshepsu at Dêr el-Bâhari, and of Amenophis III. at Luxor. Here Amon-Ra is said to have "gone
to" the queen, "that he might be a father through her. He made her behold him in his divine
form, so that she might bear a child at the sight of his divine beauty. His charms penetrated
her flesh, filling it with the odours of Punt." And the god is finally made to declare to her:
"Amen-hotep shall be the name of the son that is in thy womb. He shall grow up according to
the words that proceed out of thy mouth. He shall exercise sovereignty and righteousness in
this land unto its very end. My soul is in him, and he shall wear the twofold crown of royalty,
ruling the two lands like the sun for ever."

Religious dogmas did not weaken the firm hold the Egyptian had upon morality. His moral code
was very high. Even faith in Horus the "Redeemer" did not suffice by itself to ensure an entrance
for the dead man into the fields of Alu, the Egyptian Paradise. His deeds were weighed in the
balance, and if they were found wanting, he was condemned to the fiery pains of hell. Each
man, after death, was called upon to make the "Negative Confession," to prove that he had not
sinned against his fellows, that he had not oppressed or taken bribes, had not judged wrongfully,
had not injured a slave or overtasked the poor man, had not murdered or stolen, lied or committed
adultery, had not given short weight or robbed the gods and the dead, had made none to "hunger"
or "weep." Only when all the questions of the awful judges in the underworld had been answered
satisfactorily was he allowed to pass into the presence of Osiris and to cultivate the fields
of Alu with his own hands.

This was the last trial demanded from the justified Egyptian, and it was a hard one for the
rich and noble who had done no peasants' work in this present life. Accordingly, small images
of labourers were buried with the dead, and it was supposed that their "doubles" or shadows
would assist him in his labours. The supposition rested on a theory which ascribed to all things,
whether animate or inanimate, a double or reflection which corresponded to the thing itself
in every particular. It was like a shadow, except that it was invisible to mortal eyes, and
did not perish with the object which had projected it.

The "double" was called ka, and the ka of a man was his exact representation in the other world,
a spiritual representation, it is true, but nevertheless one which had the same feelings, the
same needs, and the same moral nature as himself. It thus differed from the ba or "soul," which
flew away to the gods on the dissolution of the body. It was, in fact, the Personality of the man.

From the outset the Pharaonic Egyptians were a nation of readers and writers. Nothing is more
astonishing than the way in which the simplest articles of daily use are covered with inscriptions.
Even the rocks on the river-bank are scribbled over by the generations who once passed beside
them. Already in the time of Menes the hieroglyphic system of writing was fully developed,
and before the end of the Third dynasty a "hieratic" or running hand had been formed out of
it. The more cumbrous and picturesque hieroglyphics were reserved for engraving on wood or
stone or metal, or for the sacred texts; the ordinary book was written in hieratic. The papyrus
which grew in the marshes of the Delta was the writing material, and in spite of its apparently
fragile character, it has been found to last as long as paper. When its use was at last discontinued
in the tenth century of our era, the cultivation of the papyrus ceased also, and it became
extinct in its ancient home. Tradition, however, asserted that leather had been employed by
the scribe before papyrus, and in the time of Pepi of the Sixth dynasty a description of the
plan of the temple of Dendera was discovered inscribed on parchment. Even in later ages leather
was sometimes employed.

Egyptian literature covered a wide field. Two of the oldest books that have come down to us
are the wise sayings of Qaqemna and Ptah-hotep, the first of whom lived under the Third, the
second under the Fifth dynasty. They are moral treatises like the Proverbs of Solomon or the
Discourses of Confucius. Ptah-hotep already laments that men were not as they had been. He
had reached the age of a hundred and ten years, and had fallen upon degenerate days. Perhaps
he was right, for it would seem that the examination system had already been introduced for
the disposal of official posts. Ptah-hotep's style, too, is involved and elaborate; he writes
for a blasé circle of readers who can no longer appreciate simplicity.

The historical novel was an Egyptian invention. Several of the works that have survived are
examples of it. But light literature of every kind was much in fashion. A tale written for
Seti II. when he was crown-prince contains an episode which closely resembles the history of
Joseph and Potiphar's wife, and the reign of Ramses II. produced a sarcastic account of the
misadventures of a tourist in Canaan, the object of which was to ridicule the style and matter
of another writer. Poetry--heroic, lyrical, and religious--flourished, and a sort of Egyptian
Iliad was constructed by the poet Pentaur out of a deed of personal prowess on the part of
Ramses II. during the war with the Hittites.

Reference has already been made to the work on mathematics that was composed when the Hyksos
were ruling Egypt. A century or two later a work on medicine was written, a copy of which is
known as the Ebers Papyrus. It shows that medicine has not advanced very rapidly since the
age of the Eighteenth Egyptian dynasty. Diseases were already carefully diagnosed and treated,
much as they are to-day. The medical prescriptions read like those of a modern doctor; we have
the same formulæ, the same admixture of various drugs.

The Egyptians were not only a people of scribes and readers, they were also a people of artists.
They had the same power as the Japanese of expressing in a few outlines the form and spirit
of an object; their drawing is accurate, and at the same time spirited. It is true that their
canon of perspective was not the same as our own, but the greater difficulties it presented
to the artist were successfully overcome. Their portraits of foreign races are marvellously
true to life, and their caricatures are as excellent as their more serious drawings. It was
in statuary, however, that the Egyptian artist was at his best. The hardest of stones were
carved into living likenesses, or invested with a dignity and pathos which it is difficult
to match. Such at least was the case with the statuary of the Old Empire, before the conventionalised
art of a later day had placed restrictions on the sculptor and stifled his originality. The
great statue of King Khaf-Ra of the Fourth dynasty, seated on his throne with the imperial
hawk behind his head, is carved out of diorite, and nevertheless the sculptor has thrown an
idealised divinity over the face, which we yet feel to be a speaking likeness of the man. The
seated scribe in the Museum of Cairo, with his high forehead, sparkling eyes, and long straight
hair divided in the middle, has a countenance that is the very ideal of intellectuality, and
in the wooden figure of the "Shêkh el-beled," we have an inimitable portrait of the sleek and
wealthy bourgeois as he walks about his farm. All these statues are older than the Sixth dynasty.

In disposition the Egyptian was remarkably kindly. He was affectionate to his family, fond
of society, and, alone among the nations of antiquity, humane to others. His laws aimed at
saving life and reclaiming the criminal. Diodoros states that punishments were inflicted not
merely as a deterrent, but also with a view towards reforming the evil-doer, and Wilkinson
notices that at Medinet Habu, where the artist is depicting the great naval battle which saved
Egypt from the barbarians in the reign of Ramses III., he has represented Egyptian soldiers
rescuing the drowning crew of an enemy's ship.

The Pharaoh derived his title from the Per-âa or "Great House" in which he lived, and where
he dispensed justice. The title thus resembles that of the "Sublime Porte." Next to him, the
priests were the most powerful body in the kingdom; indeed, after the close of the struggle
between Khu-n-Aten and the priesthood of Thebes the latter obtained more and more power, until
under the kings of the Twentieth dynasty they were the virtual rulers of the state. They stood
between the labouring classes and the great army of bureaucracy which from the days of the
Eighteenth dynasty onward carried on the administration of the kingdom. The labouring classes,
however, knew how to defend their own interests; the artisans formed unions and "went on strike."
Curious accounts have been preserved of strikes among them at Thebes in the time of Ramses
III. The free labouring population must be distinguished from the slaves, who were partly negroes,
partly captives taken in war. The greater part of the latter were employed on the public works.
The mines and quarries were worked by criminals.

At home the well-to-do Egyptian was artistic in his tastes. The walls and columns of his house
were frescoed with pictures, and his furniture was at once comfortable and tasteful. Chairs
and tables are of patterns which might well be imitated to-day, and the smallest and commonest
articles of toilet were aesthetically and carefully made. Nothing can exceed the beauty of
the jewellery found at Dahshur, and belonging to princesses of the Twelfth dynasty. Precious
stones are so exquisitely inlaid in gold as to look like enamel, and are formed into the most
beautiful of designs; small forget-me-nots, for example, alternate with plain gold crosses
on one of the coronets, and the workmanship of the pectoral ornaments could hardly be equalled
at the present day. In dress, however, the Egyptian was simple; his limbs were not overloaded
with jewellery, and he preferred light and muslin-like linen, which was kept as scrupulously
clean as his own person.

But he was fond of social entertainments, and Egyptian cookery and confectionery were famous
throughout the world. Table and guests alike were adorned with fragrant flowers, and musicians
and singers were called in to complete the banquet. The house was surrounded by a garden, if
possible, near the river. It was open to the air and sun. The Egyptian loved the country, with
its fresh air and sunshine, as well as its outdoor amusements--hunting and fishing, fowling
and playing at ball. Like his descendants to-day, he was an agriculturist at heart. The wealth
and very existence of Egypt depended on its peasantry, and though the scribes professed to
despise them and to hold the literary life alone worth living, the bulk of the nation was well
aware of the fact. Even the walls of the tombs are covered with agricultural scenes. In one
of them--that of Pa-heri, at El-Kab--the songs of the labourers have been preserved. Thus the
ploughmen sing at the plough: "'Tis a fine day, we are cool, and the oxen are drawing the plough;
the sky is doing as we would; let us work for our master!" and of the reapers we read: "In
answering chant they say: 'Tis a good day, come out to the country, the north wind blows, the
sky is all we desire, let us work and take heart." The best known, however, of the songs, is
that sung by the driver of the oxen who tread out the corn, which was first deciphered by Champollion--

"Thresh away, oxen, thresh away faster, The straw for yourselves, and the grain for your master!"

Such were the Egyptians and such was Egypt where the childhood of Israel was passed. It was
a land of culture, it was a land of wealth and abundance, but it was also a land of popular
superstition and idolatry, and the idolatry and culture were too closely associated in the
minds of the Israelites to be torn apart. In turning their backs on the Egyptian idols, it
was necessary that they should turn them on Egyptian civilisation as well. Hence it was that
intercourse with Egypt was forbidden, and the King of Israel who began by marrying an Egyptian
princess and importing horses from the valley of the Nile, ended by building shrines to the
gods of the heathen. Hence, too, it was that the distinctive beliefs and practices of Egypt
are ignored or disallowed. Even the doctrine of the resurrection is passed over in silence;
the Pentateuch keeps the eyes of the Israelite fixed on the present life, where he will meet
with his punishment or reward. The doctrine of the resurrection was part of the faith in Osiris,
Isis, and Horus, and Yahveh of Israel would have no other god beside Himself.

Moreover, the Israelites saw but little of the better side of the Egyptians. They lived in
Goshen, on the outskirts of northern Egypt, where the native population was largely mixed with
foreign elements. When they first settled there the Pharaoh and his court were Asiatic or of
Asiatic descent. And in later days the rise of a purely native government meant for them a
bitter bondage and the murder of their children. Between the Israelite and the Egyptian there
was hostility from the first; Joseph began by confiscating the lands of both peasant and noble;
the natives revenged themselves by reducing his kinsfolk to a condition of serfdom, and the
last act in the drama of the Exodus was the "spoiling of the Egyptians."

CHAPTER VI

BABYLONIA AND ASSYRIA

While the influence of Egypt upon Israel may be described as negative, that of Babylonia was
positive. Abraham was a Babylonian by birth; the Asiatic world through which he wandered was
Babylonian in civilisation and government, and the Babylonian exile was the final turning-point
in the religious history of Judah. The Semitic Babylonians were allied in race and language
to the Hebrews; they had common ideas and common points of view. Though Egyptian influence
is markedly absent from the Mosaic Code, we find in it old Semitic institutions and beliefs
which equally characterised Babylonia.

But the Semites were not the first occupants of Babylonia. The civilisation of the country
had been founded by a race which spoke an agglutinative language, like that of the modern Finns
or Turks, and which scholars have now agreed to call Sumerian. The Sumerians had been the builders
of the cities, the reclaimers of the marshy plain, the inventors of the picture-writing which
developed into the cuneiform or wedge-shaped characters, and the pioneers of a culture which
profoundly affected the whole of western Asia. The Semites entered upon the inheritance, adopting,
modifying, and improving upon it. The Babylonian civilisation, with which we are best acquainted,
was the result of this amalgamation of Sumerian and Semitic elements.

Out of this mixture of Sumerians and Semites there arose a mixed people, a mixed language,
and a mixed religion. The language and race of Babylonia were thus like those of England, probably
also like those of Egypt. Mixed races are invariably the best; it is the more pure-blooded
peoples who fall behind in the struggle for existence.

Recent excavations have thrown light on the early beginnings of Babylonia. The country itself
was an alluvial plain, formed by the silt deposited each year by the Tigris and Euphrates.
The land grows at the rate of about ninety feet a year, or less than two miles in a century;
since the age of Alexander the Great the waters of the Persian Gulf have receded more than
forty-six miles from the shore. When the Sumerians first settled by the banks of the Euphrates
it must have been on the sandy plateau to the west of the river where the city of Ur, the modern
Mugheir, was afterwards built. At that time the future Babylonia was a pestiferous marsh, inundated
by the unchecked overflow of the rivers which flowed through it. The reclamation of the marsh
was the first work of the new-comers. The rivers were banked out and the inundation regulated
by means of canals. All this demanded no little engineering skill; in fact, the creation of
Babylonia was the birth of the science of engineering.

Settlements were made in the fertile plain which had thus been won, and which, along with the
adjoining desert, was called by the Sumerians the Edin, or "Plain." On the southern edge of
this plain, and on what was then the coast-line of the Persian Gulf, the town of Eridu was
built, which soon became a centre of maritime trade. Its site is now marked by the mounds of
Abu Shahrein or Nowâwis, nearly 150 miles from the sea; its foundation, therefore, must go
back to about 7500 years, or 5500 B.C. Ur, a little to the north-west, with its temple of the
Moon-god, was a colony of Eridu.

In the plain itself many cities were erected, which rose around the temples of the gods. In
the north was Nippur, now Niffer, whose great temple of Mul-lil or El-lil, the Lord of the
Ghost-world, was a centre of Babylonian religion for unnumbered centuries. After the Semitic
conquest Mul-lil came to be addressed as Bel or "Lord," and when the rise of Babylon caused
the worship of its patron-deity Bel-Merodach to spread throughout the country, the Bel of Nippur
became known as the "older Bel." Nippur was watered by the canal Kabaru, the Chebar of Ezekiel,
and to the south of it was the city of Lagas, now Tello, where French excavators have brought
to light an early seat of Sumerian power. A little to the west of Lagas was Larsa, the modern
Senkereh, famous for its ancient temple of the Sun-god, a few miles to the north-west of which
stood Erech, now Warka, dedicated to the Sky-god Anu and his daughter Istar.

Northward of Nippur was Bab-ili or Babylon, "the Gate of God," a Semitic translation of its
original Sumerian name, Ka-Dimirra. It was a double city, built on either side of the Euphrates,
and adjoining its suburb of Borsippa, once an independent town. Babylon seems to have been
a colony of Eridu, and its god, Bel-Merodach, called by the Sumerians "Asari who does good
to man," was held to be the son of Ea, the culture-god of Eridu. E-Saggil, the great temple
of Bel-Merodach, rose in the midst of Babylon; the temple of Nebo, his "prophet" and interpreter,
rose hard by in Borsippa. Its ruins are now known as the Birs-i-Nimrûd, in which travellers
have seen the Tower of Babel.

In the neighbourhood of Babylon were Kish (El-Hymar) and Kutha (Tel-Ibrahim); somewhat to the
north of it, and on the banks of the Euphrates, was Sippara or Sepharvaim, whose temple, dedicated
to the Sun-god, has been found in the mounds of Abu-Habba. Sippara was the northern fortress
of the Babylonian plain; it stood where the Tigris and Euphrates approached most nearly one
another, and where, therefore, the plain itself came practically to an end. Upi or Opis, on
the Tigris, still farther to the north, lay outside the boundaries of primæval Chaldæa.

East of Babylonia were the mountains of Elam, inhabited by non-Semitic tribes. Among them were
the Kassi or Kossæeans, who maintained a rude independence in their mountain fastnesses, and
who, at one time, overran Babylonia and founded a dynasty there which lasted for several centuries.
The capital of Elam was Susa or Shushan, the seat of an early monarchy, whose civilisation
was derived from the Babylonians.

In the south the Tigris and Euphrates made their way to the region of salt-marshes, called
Marratu in the inscriptions, Merathaim by the prophet Jeremiah. They were inhabited by the
Semitic tribe of the Kaldâ, whose princes owned an unwilling obedience to the Babylonian kings.
One of them, Merodach-baladan, succeeded in making himself master of Babylonia, and from that
time forward the Kaldâ became so integral a part of the population as eventually to give their
name to the whole of it. For the writers of Greece and Rome the Babylonians are Chaldæans.
It is probable that Nebuchadrezzar was of Kaldâ origin; if so, this would have been a further
reason for the extension of the tribal name to the whole country.

The settlement of the Kaldâ in the marshes was of comparatively late date. Indeed, in the early
age of Babylonian history these marshes did not as yet exist; it was not until Eridu had ceased
to be a seaport that they were reclaimed from the sea. The Kaldâ were the advance-guard of
the Nabatheans and other Aramaic tribes of northern Arabia, who migrated into Babylonia and
pitched their tents on the banks of the Euphrates, first of all as herdsmen, afterwards as
traders. After the fall of the Babylonian monarchy their numbers and importance increased,
and the Aramaic they spoke--the so-called "Chaldee"--came more and more to supersede the language
of Babylonia.

When first we get a glimpse of Babylonian history, the country is divided into a number of
small principalities. They are all Sumerian, and among them the principality of Kish occupies
a leading place. The temple of Mul-lil at Nippur is the central sanctuary, to which they bring
their offerings, and from which a civilising influence emanates. It is an influence, however,
which reflects the darker side of life. Mul-lil was the lord of the dead; his priests were
sorcerers and magicians, and their sacred lore consisted of spells and incantations. Supplementing
the influence of Nippur, and in strong contrast with it, was the influence of Eridu. Ea or
Oannes, the god of Eridu, was a god who benefited mankind. He was the lord of wisdom, and his
wisdom displayed itself in delivering men from the evils that surrounded them, and in teaching
them the arts of life. But he was lord also of the water, and it was told of him how he had
arisen, morning after morning, from the depths of the Persian Gulf, and had instructed the
people of Chaldæa in all the elements of civilisation. Eridu was the home of the hymns that
were sung to the gods of light and life, and which came to be looked upon as divinely inspired.

It is clear that the myth of Cannes points to foreign intercourse as the ultimate cause of
Babylonian culture. It is natural that such should have been the case. Commerce is still the
great civiliser, and the traders and sailors of Eridu created tastes and needs which they sought
to satisfy.

The small states of Babylonia were constantly at war with each other, even though they shared
in a common civilisation, worshipped the same gods, and presented their offerings to the same
sanctuary of Nippur. Southern Babylonia--or Kengi, "the land of canals and reeds," as it was
often named--was already divided against the north. At times it exercised supremacy as far
as Nippur. En-sakkus-ana of Kengi conquered Kis, like one of his predecessors who had dedicated
the statue, the store of silver, and the furniture of the conquered prince to Mul-lil. Kis
claimed sovereignty over the Bedâwin "archers," who had their home in the district now called
Jokha. But Kis eventually revenged itself. One of its rulers made himself master of Nippur,
and the kingdom of Kengi passed away. The final blow was struck by Lugal-zaggi-si, the son
of the high-priest of the city of Opis. Lugal-zaggi-si not only conquered Babylonia, he also
created an empire. On the vases of delicately-carved stone which he dedicated to the god of
Nippur, a long inscription of one hundred and thirty-two lines describes his deeds, and tells
how he had extended his dominion from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea. It may be
that at this time the culture of Babylonia was first brought to the west, and that his conquests
first communicated a knowledge of the Sumerian language and writing to the nations of western
Asia. With the spoils of his victories the walls of Ur were raised "high as heaven," and the
temple of the Sun-god at Larsa was enlarged. Erech was made his capital, and doubtless now
received its Sumerian title of "the City" par excellence.

The dynasty of Erech was supplanted by the First dynasty of Ur. Erech was captured by Lugal-kigub-nidudu
of Ur, and took the second rank in the new kingdom. The position of Ur on the western bank
of the Euphrates exposed it to the attacks of the Semitic tribes of northern Arabia, and thus
accustomed its inhabitants to the use of arms, while at the same time its proximity to Eridu
made it a centre of trade. In Abrahamic days it had long been a place of resort and settlement
by Arabian and Canaanite merchants.

How long the supremacy of Ur lasted we do not know. Nor do we know whether it preceded or was
followed by the supremacy of Lagas. The kings of Lagas had succeeded in overcoming their hereditary
enemies to the north. The so-called "Stela of the Vultures," now in the Louvre, commemorates
the overthrow of the forces of the land of Upe or Opis, and depicts the bodies of the slain
as they lie on the battlefield devoured by the birds of prey. E-ana-gin, the king of Lagas
who erected it, never rested until he had subjected the rest of southern Babylonia to his sway.
The whole of "Sumer" was subdued, and the memory of a time when a king of Kis, Mesa by name,
had subjected Lagas to his rule, was finally wiped out.

High-priests now took the place of kings in Kis and the country of Opis. But a time came when
the same change occurred also at Lagas. doubtless in consequence of its conquest by some superior
power. One of the monuments discovered at Tello, the ancient Lagas, describes the victories
of the "high-priest" Entemena over the ancestral foe, and the appointment of a certain Ili
as "high-priest" of the land of Opis. From henceforward Kis and Opis disappear from history.

A new power had meanwhile appeared on the scene. While the Sumerian princes were engaged in
mutual war, the Semites were occupying northern Babylonia, and establishing their power in
the city of Agadê or Akkad, not far from Sippara. Here, in B.C. 3800, arose the empire of Sargani-sar-ali,
better known to posterity as "Sargon" of Akkad. He became the hero of the Semitic race in Babylonia.
Legends told how he had been hidden by his royal mother in an ark of bulrushes daubed with
pitch, and intrusted to the waters of the Euphrates, how he had been found and adopted as a
son by Akki the irrigator, and how the goddess Istar had loved him and restored him to his
kingly estate. At all events, the career of Sargon was a career of victories. Babylonia was
united under his rule, Elam was subjugated, and three campaigns sufficed to make "the land
of the Amorites," Syria and Canaan, obedient to his sway. He caused an image of himself to
be carved on the shores of the Mediterranean, and demanded tribute from Cyprus, Uru-Malik or
Urimelech being appointed governor of Syria, as we learn from a cadastral survey of the district
of Lagas. A revolt of the Sumerian states, however, called him home, and for a time fortune
seemed against him. He was besieged in Akkad, but a successful sally drove back the rebels,
and they were soon utterly crushed. Then Sargon marched into Suri or Mesopotamia, subduing
that country as well as the future Assyria. It was the last, however, of his exploits. His
son Naram-Sin succeeded him shortly afterwards (B.C. 3750), and continued the conquests of
his father, Canaan was already a Babylonian province, and Naram-Sin now carried his arms against
Magan, or the Sinaitic Peninsula, where he secured the precious mines of copper and turquoise.
Building stone from Magan had already been imported to Babylonia by Ur-Nina, a king of Lagas,
and grandfather of E-ana-gin, but it must have been brought in the ships of Eridu.

Naram-Sin's son was Bingani-sar-ali. A queen, Ellat-Gula, seems to have sat on the throne not
many years later, and with her the dynasty may have come to an end. At any rate, the empire
of Akkad is heard of no more. But it left behind it a profound and abiding impression on western
Asia. Henceforward the culture and art of the west was Babylonian,--Semitic Babylonian, however,
and no longer Sumerian Babylonian as in the days of Lugal-zaggi-si. Sargon was a patron of
literature as well as a warrior. Standard works on astronomy and astrology and the science
of omens were compiled for the great library he established at Akkad, where numerous scribes
were kept constantly at work. Sumerian books were brought from the cities of the south and
translated into Semitic; commentaries were written on the older literature of the country,
and dictionaries and grammars compiled. It was now that that mixed language arose, or at least
was admitted into the literary dialect, which made Babylonian so much resemble modern English.
The lexicon was filled with Sumerian words which had put on a Semitic form, and Semitic lips
expressed themselves in Sumerian idioms.

Art, too, reached a high perfection. The seal-cylinders of the reign of Sargon of Akkad represent
the highest efforts of the gem-cutter's skill in ancient Babylonia, and a bas-relief of Naram-Sin,
found at Diarbekr in northern Mesopotamia, while presenting close analogies to the Egyptian
art of the Old Empire, is superior to anything of the kind as yet discovered in Babylonia of
either an earlier or a later date. As in Egypt, so too in Babylonia, the sculpture of later
times shows retrogression rather than advance. It is impossible not to believe that between
the art of Egypt in the age of the Old Empire and that of Babylonia in the reigns of Sargon
and Naram-Sin there was an intimate connection. The mines of the Sinaitic Peninsula were coveted
by both countries.

Sumerian princes still continued to rule in Sumer or southern Babylonia, but after the era
of Sargon their power grew less and less. A Second Sumerian dynasty, however, arose at Ur,
and claimed sovereignty over the rest of Chaldæa. One of its kings, Ur-Bau, was a great builder
and restorer of the temples, and under his son and successor Dungi (B.C. 2700), a high-priest
of the name of Gudea governed Lagas, the monuments of which have given us an insight into the
condition of the country in his age. His statues of hard diorite from the Peninsula of Sinai
are now in the Louvre; one of them is that of the architect of his palace, with a copy of its
plan upon his lap divided according to scale. Gudea, though owning allegiance to Dungi, carried
on wars on his own behalf, and boasts of having conquered "Ansan of Elam." The materials for
his numerous buildings were brought from far. Hewn stones were imported from the "land of the
Amorites," limestone and alabaster from the Lebanon, gold-dust and acacia-wood from the desert
to the south of Palestine, copper from northern Arabia, and various sorts of wood from the
Armenian mountains. Other trees came from Dilmun in the Persian Gulf, from Gozan in Mesopotamia,
and from Gubin, which is possibly Gebal. The bitumen was derived from "Madga in the mountains
of the river Gurruda," in which some scholars have seen the name of the Jordan, and the naphtha
springs of the vale of Siddim.

The library of Gudea has been found entire, with its 30,000 tablets or books arranged in order
on its shelves, and filled with information which it will take years of labour to examine thoroughly.
Not long after his death, the Second dynasty of Ur gave way to a Third, this time of Semitic
origin. Its kings still claimed that sovereignty over Syria and Palestine which had been won
by Sargon. One of them, Inê-Sin, carried his arms to the west, and married his daughters to
the "high-priests" of Ansan in Elam, and of Mer'ash in northern Syria. His grandson, Gimil-Sin,
marched to the ranges of the Lebanon and overran the land of Zamzali, which seems to be the
Zamzummim of Scripture.

But with Gimil-Sin the strength of the dynasty seems to have come to an end. Babylonia was
given over to the stranger, and a dynasty of kings from southern Arabia fixed its seat at Babylon.
The language they spoke and the names they bore were common to Canaan and the south of Arabia,
and sounded strangely in Babylonian ears. The founder of the dynasty was Sumu-abi, "Shem is
my father," a name in which we cannot fail to recognise the Shem of the Old Testament. His
descendants, however, had some difficulty in extending and maintaining their authority. The
native princes of southern Babylonia resisted it, and the Elamites harried the country with
fire and sword. In B.C. 2280 Kudur-Nankhundi, the Elamite king, sacked Erech and carried away
the image of its goddess, and not long afterwards we find another Elamite king, Kudur-Laghghamar
or Chedor-laomer, claiming lordship over the whole of Chaldsea. The western provinces of Babylonia
shared in the fate of the sovereign power, and an Elamite prince, Kudur-Mabug by name, was
made "Father" or "Governor of the land of the Amorites." His son Eri-Aku, the Arioch of Genesis,
was given the title of king in southern Babylonia, with Larsa as his capital. Larsa had been
taken by storm by the Elamite forces, and its native king, Sin-idinnam, driven out. He fled
for refuge to the court of the King of Babylon, who still preserved a semblance of authority.

Khammurabi or Amraphel, the fifth successor of Sumu-abi, was now on the throne of Babylon.
His long reign of fifty-five years marked an epoch in Babylonian history. At first he was the
vassal of Kudur-Laghghamar, and along with his brother vassals, Eri-Aku of Larsa and Tudghula
or Tidal of Kurdistan, had to serve in the campaigns of his suzerain lord in Canaan. But an
opportunity came at last for revolt, it may be in consequence of the disaster which had befallen
the army of the invaders in Syria at the hands of Abram and his Amorite allies. The war lasted
long, and at the beginning went against the King of Babylon. Babylon itself was captured by
the enemy, and its great temple laid in ruins. But soon afterwards the tide turned. Eri-Aku
and his Elamite supporters were defeated in a decisive battle. Larsa was retaken, and Khammurabi
ruled once more over an independent and united Babylonia. Sin-idinnam was restored to his principality,
and we now possess several of the letters written to him by Khammurabi, in which his bravery
is praised on "the day of Kudur-Laghghamar's defeat," and he is told to send back the images
of certain Elamite goddesses to their original seats. They had doubtless been carried to Larsa
when it fell into the hands of the Elamite invaders.

As soon as Babylonia was cleared of its enemies, Khammurabi set himself to the work of fortifying
its cities, of restoring and building its temples and walls, and of clearing and digging canals.
The great canal known as that of "the King," in the northern part of the country, was either
made or re-excavated by him, and at Kilmad, near the modern Bagdad, a palace was erected. Art
and learning were encouraged, and a literary revival took place which brought back the old
glories of the age of Sargon. Once more new editions were made of standard works, poets arose
to celebrate the deeds of the monarch, and books became multiplied. Among the literary products
of the period was the great Chaldæan Epic in twelve books, recording the adventures of the
hero Gilgames, and embodying the Chaldæan story of the Deluge.

The supremacy over western Asia passed to Khammurabi, along with sovereignty over Babylonia,
and he assumed the title of "King of the land of the Amorites." So too did his great-grandson,
Ammi-ditana. Two generations later, with Samas-ditana the First dynasty of Babylon came to
an end. It had made Babylon the capital of the country--a position which it never subsequently
lost. It had raised Bel-Merodach, the god of Babylon, to the head of the pantheon, and it had
lasted for 304 years. It was followed by a Sumerian dynasty from the south, which governed
the country for 368 years, but of which we know little more than the names of the kings composing
it and the length of their several reigns.

It fell before the avalanche of an invasion from the mountains of Elam. The Kassites poured
into the Babylonian plain, and Kassite kings ruled at Babylon for 576 years and a half. During
their domination the map of western Asia underwent a change. The Kassite conquest destroyed
the Babylonian empire; Canaan was lost to it for ever, and eventually became a province of
Egypt. The high-priests of Assur, now Kaleh Sherghat, near the confluence of the Tigris and
Lower Zab, made themselves independent and founded the kingdom of Assyria, which soon extended
northward into the angle formed by the Tigris and Upper Zab, where the cities of Nineveh and
Calah afterwards arose. The whole country had previously been included by the Babylonians in
Gutium or Kurdistan.

The population of Assyria seems to have been more purely Semitic than that of Babylonia. Such
at least was the case with the ruling classes. It was a population of free peasants, of soldiers,
and of traders. Its culture was derived from Babylonia; even its gods, with the exception of
Assur, were of Babylonian origin. We look in vain among the Assyrians for the peace-loving
tendencies of the Babylonians; they were, on the contrary, the Romans of the East. They were
great in war, and in the time of the Second Assyrian empire great also in law and administration.
But they were not a literary people; education among them was confined to the scribes and officials,
rather than generally spread as in Babylonia. War and commerce were their two trades.

The Kassite conquerors of Babylonia soon submitted to the influences of Babylonian civilisation.
Like the Hyksos in Egypt, they adopted the manners and customs, the writing and language, of
the conquered people, sometimes even their names. The army, however, continued to be mainly
composed of Kassite troops, and the native Babylonians began to forget the art of fighting.
The old claims to sovereignty in the west, however, were never resigned; but the Kassite kings
had to content themselves with intriguing against the Egyptian government in Palestine, either
with disaffected Canaanites, or with the Hittites and Mitannians, while at the same time they
professed to be the firm friends of the Egyptian Pharaoh. Burna-buryas in B.C. 1400 writes
affectionately to his "brother" of Egypt, begging for some of the gold which in Egypt he declares
is as abundant "as the dust," and which he needs for his buildings at home. He tells the Egyptian
king how his father Kuri-galzu had refused to listen to the Canaanites when they had offered
to betray their country to him, and he calls Khu-n-Aten to account for treating the Assyrians
as an independent nation and not as the vassals of Babylonia.

The Assyrians, however, did not take the same view as the Babylonian king. They had been steadily
growing in power, and had intermarried into the royal family of Babylonia. Assur-yuballidh,
one of whose letters to the Pharaoh has been found at Tel el-Amarna, had married his daughter
to the uncle and predecessor of Burna-buryas, and his grandson became king of Babylon. A revolt
on the part of the Kassite troops gave the Assyrians an excuse for interfering in the affairs
of Babylonia, and from this time forward their eyes were turned covetously towards the kingdom
of the south.

As Assyria grew stronger, Babylonia became weaker. Calah, now Nimrud, was founded about B.C.
1300 by Shalmaneser I., and his son and successor Tiglath-Ninip threw off all disguise and
marched boldly into Babylonia in the fifth year of his reign. Babylon was taken, the treasures
of its temple sent to Assur, and Assyrian governors set over the country, while a special seal
was made for the use of the conqueror. For seven years the Assyrian domination lasted. Then
Tiglath-Ninip was driven back to Assyria, where he was imprisoned and murdered by his son,
and the old line of Kassite princes was restored in the person of Rimmon-sum-uzur. But it continued
only four reigns longer. A new dynasty from the town of Isin seized the throne, and ruled for
132 years and six months.

It was while this dynasty was reigning that a fresh line of energetic monarchs mounted the
Assyrian throne. Rimmon-nirari I., the father of Shalmaneser I. (B.C. 1330-1300) had already
extended the frontiers of Assyria to the Khabur in the west and the Kurdish mountains in the
north, and his son settled an Assyrian colony at the head-waters of the Tigris, which served
to garrison the country. But after the successful revolt of the Babylonians against Tiglath-Ninip
the Assyrian power decayed. More than a century later Assur-ris-isi entered again on a career
of conquest and reduced the Kurds to obedience.

His son, Tiglath-pileser I., was one of the great conquerors of history. He carried his arms
far and wide. Kurdistan and Armenia, Mesopotamia and Comagênê, were all alike overrun by his
armies in campaign after campaign. The Hittites paid tribute, as also did Phoenicia, where
he sailed on the Mediterranean in a ship of Arvad and killed a dolphin in its waters. The Pharaoh
of Egypt, alarmed at the approach of so formidable an invader, sent him presents, which included
a crocodile and a hippopotamus, and on the eastern bank of the Euphrates, near Carchemish and
Pethor, he hunted wild elephants, as Thothmes III. had done before him. His son still claimed
supremacy in the west, as is shown by the fact that he erected statues in "the land of the
Amorites." But the energy of the dynasty was now exhausted, and Assyria for a time passed under
eclipse. This was the period when David established his empire; there was no other great power
to oppose him in the Oriental world, and it seemed as if Israel was about to take the place
that had once been filled by Egypt and Babylon. But the opportunity was lost; the murder of
Joab and the unwarlike character of Solomon effectually checked all dreams of conquest, and
Israel fell back into two petty states.

The military revival of Assyria was as sudden as had been its decline. In B.C. 885, Assur-nazir-pal
II. ascended the throne. His reign of twenty-five years was passed in constant campaigns, in
ferocious massacres, and the burning of towns. In both his inscriptions and his sculptures
he seems to gloat over the tortures he inflicted on the defeated foe. Year after year his armies
marched out of Nineveh to slaughter and destroy, and to bring back with them innumerable captives
and vast amounts of spoil. Western Asia was overrun, tribute was received from the Hittites
and from Phoenicia, and Armenia was devastated by the Assyrian forces as far north as Lake
Van. The policy of Assur-nazir-pal was continued by his son and successor Shalmaneser II.,
with less ferocity, but with more purpose (B.C. 860-825). Assyria became dominant in Asia;
its empire stretched from Media on the east to the Mediterranean on the west. But it was an
empire which was without organisation or permanency. Every year a new campaign was needed to
suppress the revolts which broke out as soon as the Assyrian army was out of sight, or to supply
the treasury with fresh spoil. The campaigns were in most cases raids rather than the instruments
of deliberately planned conquest. Hence it was that the Assyrian monarch found himself checked
in the west by the petty kings of Damascus and the neighbouring states. Ben-Hadad and Hazael,
it is true, were beaten again and again along with their allies, while Omri of Israel offered
tribute to the invader, like the rich cities of Phoenicia; but Damascus remained untaken and
its people unsubdued.

The war with Assyria, however, saved Israel from being swallowed up by its Syrian neighbour.
Hazael's strength was exhausted in struggling for his own existence; he had none left for the
conquest of Samaria. Shalmaneser himself, towards the end of his life, was no longer in a position
to attack others. A great revolt broke out against him, headed by his son Assur-dain-pal, the
Sardanapallos of the Greeks, who established himself at Nineveh, and there reigned as rival
king for about seven years. His brother Samas-Rimmon, who had remained faithful to his father,
at last succeeded in putting down the rebellion. Nineveh was taken, and its defenders slain.
Henceforth Samas-Rimmon reigned with an undisputed title.

But Assyria was long in recovering from the effects of the revolt, which had shaken her to
the foundations. The dynasty itself never recovered. Samas-Rimmon, indeed, at the head of the
army which had overcome his brother, continued the military policy of his predecessors; the
tribes of Media and southern Armenia were defeated, and campaigns were carried on against Babylonia,
the strength of which was now completely broken. In B.C. 812 Babylon was taken, but two years
later Samas-Rimmon himself died, and was succeeded by his son Rimmon-nirari III. His reign
was passed in constant warfare on the frontiers of the empire, and in B.C. 804 Damascus was
surrendered to him by its king Mariha, who became an Assyrian tributary. In the following year
a pestilence broke out, and when his successor, Shalmaneser III., mounted the throne in B.C.
781, he found himself confronted by a new and formidable power, that of Ararat or Van. The
eastern and northern possessions of Assyria were taken from her, and the monarchy fell rapidly
into decay. In B.C. 763 an eclipse of the sun took place on the 15th of June, and was the signal
for the outbreak of a revolt in Assur, the ancient capital of the kingdom. It spread rapidly
to other parts of the empire, and though for a time the government held its own against the
rebels, the end came in B.C. 745. Assur-nirari, the last of the old dynasty, died or was put
to death, and Pulu or Pul, one of his generals, was proclaimed king on the 13th of Iyyar or
April under the name of Tiglath-pileser III.

Tiglath-pileser III. was the founder of the Second Assyrian empire, which was based on a wholly
different principle from that of the first. Occupation and not plunder was the object of its
wars. The ancient empire of Babylonia in western Asia was to be restored, and the commerce
of the Mediterranean to be diverted into Assyrian hands. The campaigns of Tiglath-pileser and
his successors were thus carried on in accordance with a deliberate line of policy. They aimed
at the conquest of the whole civilised world, and the building up of a great organisation of
which Nineveh and its ruler were the head. It was a new principle and a new idea. And measures
were at once adopted to realise it.

The army was made an irresistible engine of attack. Its training, discipline, and arms were
such as the world had never seen before. And the army was followed by a body of administrators.
The conquered population was transported elsewhere or else deprived of its leaders, and Assyrian
colonies and garrisons were planted in its place. The administration was intrusted to a vast
bureaucracy, at the head of which stood the king. He appointed the satraps who governed the
provinces, and were responsible for the taxes and tribute, as well as for the maintenance of
order. The bureaucracy was partly military, partly civil, the two elements acting as a check
one upon the other.

But it was necessary that Ararat should be crushed before the plans of the new monarch could
be carried out. The strength of the army was first tested in campaigns against Babylonia and
the Medes, and then Tiglath-pileser marched against the confederated forces of the Armenian
king. A league had been formed among the princes of northern Syria in connection with that
of the Armenians, but the Assyrian king annihilated the army of Ararat in Comagênê, and then
proceeded to besiege Arpad. Arpad surrendered after a blockade of three years; Hamath, which
had been assisted by Azariah of Judah, was reduced into an Assyrian province; and a court was
held, at which the sovereigns of the west paid homage and tribute to the conqueror (B.C. 738).
Among these were Rezon of Damascus and Menahem of Samaria. Tiglath-pileser was still known
in Palestine under his original name of Pul, and the tribute of Menahem is accordingly described
by the Israelitish chronicler as having been given to Pul.

The Assyrian king was now free to turn the full strength of his forces against Ararat. The
country was ravaged up to the very gates of its capital, the modern Van, and only the strong
walls of the city kept the invader out of it. The Assyrian army next moved eastward to the
southern shores of the Caspian, striking terror into the Kurdish and Median tribes, and so
securing the lowlands of Assyria from their raids. The affairs of Syria next claimed the attention
of the conqueror. Rezon and Pekah, the new king of Samaria, had attempted to form a league
against Assyria; and, with this end in view, determined to replace Ahaz, the youthful king
of Judah, by a creature of their own. Ahaz turned in his extremity to Assyrian help, and Tiglath-pileser
seized the opportunity of accepting the vassalage of Judah, with its strong fortress of Jerusalem,
and at the same time of overthrowing both Damascus and Samaria. Rezon was closely besieged
in his capital, while the rest of the Assyrian army was employed in overrunning Samaria, Ammon,
Moab, and the Philistines (B.C. 734). Pekah was put to death, and Hosea appointed by the Assyrians
in his place. After a siege of two years, Damascus fell in B.C. 732, Rezon was slain, and his
kingdom placed under an Assyrian satrap. Meanwhile Tyre was compelled to purchase peace by
an indemnity of 150 talents.

Syria was now at the feet of Nineveh. A great gathering of the western kings took place at
Damascus, where Tiglath-pileser held his court after the capture of the city, and the list
of those who came to do homage to him includes Jehoahaz or Ahaz of Judah, and the kings of
Ammon, Moab, Edom, and Hamath. Hosea, it would seem, was not yet on the Israelitish throne.

The old empire of Babylonia was thus restored as far as the Mediterranean. All that remained
was for the Assyrian usurper to legitimise his title by occupying Babylon itself, and there
receiving the crown of Asia. In B.C. 731, accordingly, he found a pretext for invading Babylonia
and seizing the holy city of western Asia. Two years later he "took the hands" of Bel-Merodach,
and was thereby adopted by the god as his own son. But he did not live long to enjoy the fruits
of his victories. He died December B.C. 727, and another usurper, Ululâ, possessed himself
of the throne, and assumed the name of Shalmaneser IV. His reign, however, was short. He died
while besieging Samaria, which had revolted after the death of its conqueror, and in December
B.C. 722, a third general seized the vacant crown. He took the name of the old Babylonian monarch,
Sargon, and the court chroniclers of after-days discovered that he was a descendant of the
legendary kings of Assyria. His first achievement was the capture of Samaria. Little spoil,
however, was found in the half-ruined city; and the upper classes, who were responsible for
the rebellion, were carried into captivity to the number of 27,280 persons. The city itself
was placed under an Assyrian governor.

Sargon found that the empire of Tiglath-pileser had in great measure to be re-conquered. Neither
Tiglath-pileser nor his successor had been able to leave the throne to their children, and
the conquered provinces had taken advantage of the troubles consequent on their deaths to revolt.
Babylonia had been lost. Merodach-baladan, the Chaldæan prince, had emerged from the marshes
of the south and occupied Babylon, where he was proclaimed king immediately after Shalmaneser's
death. For twelve years he reigned there, with the help of the Elamites, and one of the first
tasks of Sargon was to drive the latter from the Assyrian borders. Sargon had next to suppress
a revolt in Hamath, as well as an invasion of Palestine by the Egyptians. The Egyptian army,
however, was defeated at Raphia, and the Philistines with whom it was in alliance returned
to their allegiance to the Assyrian king.

Now came, however, a more serious struggle. Ararat had recovered from the blow it had received
at the hands of Tiglath-pileser, and had organised a general confederacy of the northern nations
against their dangerous neighbour. For six years the struggle continued. But it ended in victory
for the Assyrians. Carchemish, the Hittite stronghold which commanded the road across the Euphrates,
was taken in B.C. 717, and the way lay open to the west. The barrier that had existed for seven
centuries between the Semites of the east and west was removed, and the last relic of the Hittite
conquests in Syria passed away. In the following year Sargon overran the territories of the
Minni between Ararat and Lake Urumiyeh, and two years later the northern confederacy was utterly
crushed. The fortress of Muzazir, under Mount Rowandiz, was added to the Assyrian dominions,
its gods were carried into captivity, and the King of Ararat committed suicide in despair.
From henceforward Assyria had nothing to fear on the side of the north. The turn of the Medes
came next. They were compelled to acknowledge the supremacy of Nineveh; so also was the kingdom
of Ellipi, the later Ekbatana. Sargon could now turn his attention to Babylonia.

Merodach-baladan had foreseen the coming storm, and had done his best to secure allies. An
alliance was made with the Elamites, who were alarmed at the conquest of Ellipi; and ambassadors
were sent to Palestine (in B.C. 711), there to arrange a general rising of the population,
simultaneously with the outbreak of war between Sargon and the Babylonian king. But before
the confederates were ready to move, Sargon had fallen upon them separately. Ashdod, the centre
of the revolt in the west, was invested and taken by the Turtannu or commander-in-chief; its
ruler, a certain "Greek," who had been raised to power by the anti-Assyrian party, fled to
the Arabian desert in the vain hope of saving his life, and Judah, Moab, and Edom were forced
to renew their tribute. The Egyptians, who had promised to assist the rebels in Palestine,
prudently retired, and the Assyrian yoke was fixed more firmly than ever upon the nations of
Syria. Merodach-baladan was left to face his foe alone. In B.C. 709 he was driven out of Babylon,
and forced to take refuge in his ancestral kingdom in the marshes. Sargon entered Babylon in
triumph, and "took the hands of Bel." His title to rule was acknowledged by the god and the
priesthood, and an Assyrian was once more the lord of western Asia.

Four years later the old warrior was murdered by a soldier, and on the 12th of Ab, or July,
his son Sennacherib was proclaimed king. Sennacherib was a different man from his father. Sargon
had been an able and energetic general, rough perhaps and uncultured, but vigorous and determined.
His son was weak and boastful, and under him the newly-formed Assyrian empire met with its
first check. It is significant that the Babylonian priests never acknowledged him as the successor
of their ancient kings; he revenged himself by razing the city and sanctuary of Bel to the ground.

Merodach-baladan re-entered Babylon immediately after the death of Sargon in B.C. 705, but
he was soon driven back to his retreat in the Chaldæan marshes, and an Assyrian named Bel-ibni
was appointed king in his place. The next campaign of importance undertaken by Sennacherib
was in B.C. 701. Palestine had revolted, under the leadership of Hezekiah of Judah. The full
strength of the Assyrian army was accordingly hurled against it. The King of Sidon fled to
Cyprus, and Phoenicia, Ammon, Moab, and Edom hastened to submit to their dangerous foe. Hezekiah
and his Philistine vassals alone ventured to resist.

The Philistines, however, were soon subdued. A new king was appointed over Ashkelon, and Hezekiah
was compelled to restore to Ekron its former prince, whom he had imprisoned in Jerusalem on
account of his loyalty to Assyria. The priests and nobles of Ekron, who had given him up to
Hezekiah, were ruthlessly impaled. Meanwhile Tirhakah, the Ethiopian king of Egypt, on whose
help Hezekiah had relied, was marching to the assistance of his ally. Sennacherib met him at
Eltekeh, and there the combined forces of the Egyptians and Arabians were defeated and compelled
to retreat. Hezekiah now endeavoured to make peace by the offer of rich and numerous presents,
including thirty talents of gold and 800 of silver. But nothing short of the death of the Jewish
king and the transportation of his people would content the invader. Hezekiah accordingly shut
himself up within the strong walls of his capital, while the Assyrians ravaged the rest of
the country and prepared to besiege Jerusalem. The cities and villages were destroyed, and
200,150 persons were led away into captivity. But at this moment a catastrophe befell the Assyrians
which saved Hezekiah and "the remnant" of Israel. The angel of death smote the Assyrian army,
and it was decimated by a sudden pestilence. Sennacherib fled from the plague-stricken camp,
carrying with him his spoil and captives, and the scanty relics of his troops. It was the last
time he marched to the west, and his rebellious vassal remained unpunished.

