Suffice it to say, that Richard, the younger, soon became wearied of a miner's life; and, parting
with his brother, he crossed the Cordilleras, and descended into the great Amazonian forest,--the
"montaña," as it is called by the Spanish inhabitants of the Andes. Thence, in company with
a party of Portuguese traders, he kept on down the river Amazon, trading along its banks, and
upon some of its tributary streams; and finally established himself as a merchant at its mouth,
in the thriving "city" of Gran Pará.

Richard was not unsocial in his habits; and soon became the husband of a fair-haired wife,--the
daughter of a countryman who, like himself, had established commercial relations at Pará. In
a few years after, several sweet children called him "father,"--only two of whom survived to
prattle in his ears this endearing appellation, alas! no longer to be pronounced in the presence
of their mother.

Fifteen years after leaving the Land's End, Richard Trevannion, still under thirty-five years
of age, was a widower, with two children,--respected wherever known, prosperous in pecuniary
affairs,--rich enough to return home, and spend the remainder of his days in that state so
much desired by the Sybarite Roman poet,--"otium cum dignitate."

Did he remember the vow mutually made between him and his brother, that, having enough money,
they would one day go back to Cornwall, and recover the ancestral estate? He did remember it.
He longed to accomplish this design. He only awaited his brother's answer to a communication
he had made to him on this very subject.

He had no doubt that Ralph's desire would be in unison with his own,--that his brother would
soon join him, and then both would return to their native land,--perhaps to dwell again under
the same roof that had sheltered them as children.

The history of the elder brother during this period of fifteen years, if less eventful, was
not less distinguished by success. By steadily following the pursuit which had first attracted
him to Peru, he succeeded in becoming a man of considerable means,--independent, if not wealthy.

Like his brother, he got married at an early period,--in fact, within the first year after
establishing himself in Cerro Pasco. Unlike the latter, however, he chose for his wife one
of the women of the country,--a beautiful Peruvian lady. She too, but a short while before,
had gone to a better world, leaving motherless two pretty children, of twelve and fourteen
years of age,--the elder of the two being a daughter.

Such was the family of Ralph Trevannion, and such the condition of life in which his brother's
epistle reached him,--that epistle containing the proposal that they should wind up their respective
businesses, dispose of both, and carry their gains to the land that had given them birth.

The proposition was at once accepted, as Richard knew it would be. It was far from the first
time that the thing had been discussed, epistolary fashion, between them; for letters were
exchanged as often as opportunity permitted,--sometimes twice or thrice in the year.

In these letters, during the last few years of their sojourn in South America, the promise
made on leaving home was mutually mentioned, and as often renewed on either side. Richard knew
that his brother was as eager as himself to keep that well-remembered vow.

So long as the mother of Ralph's children was alive, he had not urged his brother to its fulfilment;
but now that she had been dead for more than a year, he had written to say that the time had
come for their return to their country and their home.

His proposal was, that Ralph, having settled his affairs in Peru,--which, of course, included
the selling out of his share in the mines,--should join him, Richard, at Pará, thence to take
ship for England. That instead of going round by Cape Horn, or across the isthmus, by Panama,
Ralph should make the descent of the great Amazon River, which traverse would carry him latitudinally
across the continent from west to east.

Richard had two reasons for recommending this route. First, because he wished his brother to
see the great river of Orellana, as he himself had done; and secondly, because he was still
more desirous that his own son should see it.

How this last wish was to be gratified by his brother making the descent of the Amazon, may
require explanation; but it will suffice to say that the son of Richard Trevannion was at that
time residing with his uncle at the mines of Cerro Pasco.

The boy had gone to Peru the year before, in one of his father's ships,--first, to see the
Great Ocean, then the Great Andes,--afterwards to become acquainted with the country of the
Incas, and last, though not of least importance, to make the acquaintance of his own uncle
and his two interesting cousins, the elder of whom was exactly his own age. He had gone to
the Pacific side by sea. It was his father's wish he should return to the Atlantic side by
land,--or, to speak more accurately, by river.

The merchant's wish was to be gratified. The miner had no desire to refuse compliance with
his proposal. On the contrary, it chimed in with his own inclinations. Ralph Trevannion possessed
a spirit adventurous as his brother's, which fourteen years of mining industry, carried on
in the cold mountains of Cerro Pasco, had neither deadened nor chilled. The thought of once
more returning to the scenes of his youth quite rejuvenated him; and on the day of receiving
his brother's challenge to go, he not only accepted it, but commenced proceedings towards carrying
the design into execution.

A month afterwards and he might have been seen descending the eastern slope of the Cordilleras
on mule-back, and accompanied by his family and followers; afterwards aboard a balsa,--one
of those curious crafts used in the descent of the Huallaga; and later still on the montaria,
upon the bosom of the great river itself.

With the details of his mountain travels, interesting as they may be, we have naught to do.
No more with his descent of the Huallaga, nor his long voyage on the Amazon itself, in that
up-river portion of the stream where it is called the "Marañon." Only where it becomes the
stupendous "Solimoës" do we join Ralph Trevannion on his journey, and remain with him as long
as he is "AFLOAT IN THE FOREST," or making a voyage among the tree-tops.

CHAPTER III.

THE GALATEA.

On an evening in the early part of December, a craft of singular construction might have been
seen descending the Solimoës, and apparently making for the little Portuguese port of Coary,
that lies on the southern side of the river.

When we say of singular construction, we mean singular to one unaccustomed to the navigation
of Amazonian waters. There the craft in question was too common to excite curiosity, since
it was nothing more than a galatea, or large canoe, furnished with mast and sail, with a palm-thatched
cabin, or tolda, rising over the quarter, a low-decked locker running from bow to midships,--along
each side of which were to be seen, half seated, half standing, some half-dozen dark-skinned
men, each plying, instead of an oar, a paddle-blade.

Perhaps the most singular sight on board this embarkation was the group of animated beings
who composed its crew and passengers. The former, as already stated, were dark-skinned men,
scantily clad,--in fact, almost naked, since a single pair of white cotton drawers constituted
the complete costume of each.

For passengers there were three men, and a like number of individuals of younger age. Two of
the men were white, apparently Europeans; the other was as black as soot could have made him,--unquestionably
an African negro. Of the young people two were boys, not much differing in size, and apparently
not much in age, while the third was a half-grown girl, of dark complexion, raven-colored hair,
and beautiful features.

One of the white men appeared to be, and was, the proprietor of the montaria, and the employer
of its swarthy crew. He was Ralph Trevannion.

The young girl was his daughter, and bore her Peruvian mother's name, Rosa, more often pronounced
by its diminutive of endearment, Rosita. The younger of the two boys--also of dark complexion--was
his son Ralph, while the older, of true Saxon physiognomy and hue, was the son of his brother,
also bearing his father's Christian name, Richard.

The second white man was unmistakably of European race,--so much so that any one possessing
the slightest knowledge of the hibernian type, would at once have pronounced him a "Son of
the Sod." A pure pug nose, a shock of curled hair of the clearest carrot color, an eternal
twinkle in the eye, a volume of fun lying open at each angle of the mouth,--were all characteristics
by which "Tipperary Tom"--for such was his sobriquet--might be remembered.

About the negro there was nothing special, more than that he was a pure negro, with enormously
thick lips, flattened nose, long protruding heels, teeth white as hippopotamus ivory, and almost
always set in a good-humored grin. The darkey had been a sailor, or rather ship-steward, before
landing in Peru. Thither had he strayed, and settled at Cerro Pasco after several years spent
aboard ship. He was a native of Mozambique, on the eastern coast of Africa, to which circumstance
was he indebted for the only name ever given him,--Mozey.

Both he and the Irishman were the servants of the miner, or rather his retainers, who served
him in various ways, and had done so almost ever since his establishing himself among the rocks
of Cerro Pasco.

The other creatures of the animated kingdom that found lodgment upon the craft, were of various
shapes, sizes, and species. There were quadrupeds, quadrumana, and birds,--beasts of the field,
monkeys of the forest, and birds of the air,--clustering upon the cabin top, squatted in the
hold, perched upon the gangway, the tolda, the yard, and the mast,--forming an epitomized menagerie,
such as may be seen on every kind of craft that navigates the mighty Amazon.

It is not our design to give any description of the galatea's crew. There were nine of them,--all
Indians,--four on each side acting as rowers, or more properly "paddlers," the ninth being
the pilot or steersman, standing abaft the tolda.

Our reason for not describing them is that they were a changing crew, only attached to the
craft for a particular stage of the long river voyage, and had succeeded several other similar
sets since the embarkation of our voyagers on the waters of the Upper Amazon. They had joined
the galatea at the port of Ega, and would take leave of her at Coary, where a fresh crew of
civilized Indians--"tapuyos"--would be required.

And they were required, but not obtained. On the galatea putting into the port of Coary, it
was found that nearly every man in the place was off upon a hunting excursion,--turtle and
cowfish being the game that had called them out. Not a canoe-man could be had for love or money.

The owner of the galatea endeavored to tempt the Ega crew to continue another stage. It was
contrary to their habit, and they refused to go. Persuasion and threats were tried in vain.
Coaxing and scolding proved equally unavailable; all except one remained firm in their refusal,
the exception being an old Indian who did not belong to the Ega tribe, and who could not resist
the large bribe offered by Trevannion.

The voyagers must either suspend their journey till the Coary turtle-hunters should return,
or proceed without paddlers. The hunters were not expected for a month. To stay a month at
Coary was out of the question. The galatea must go on manned by her own people, and the old
Indian, who was to act as pilot. Such was the determination of Ralph Trevannion. But for that
resolve,--rash as it was, and ending unfortunately for him who made it,--we should have no
story to tell.

CHAPTER IV.

DRIFTING WITH THE CURRENT.

The craft that carried the ex-miner, his family and following, once more floated on the broad
bosom of the Solimoës. Not so swift as before, since, instead of eight paddlers, it was now
impelled by only half the number,--these, too, with less than half the experience of the crew
who had preceded them.

The owner himself acted as steersman, while the paddles were plied by "Tipperary Tom," Mozey,
the old Indian,--who, being of the Mundurucú tribe, passed by the name of "Monday,"--and Richard
Trevannion.

The last, though by far the youngest, was perhaps the best paddler in the party. Brought up
in his native place of Gran Pará, he had been accustomed to spend half his time either in or
upon the water; and an oar or paddle was to him no novelty.

Young Ralph, on the contrary, a true mountaineer, knew nothing of either, and therefore counted
for nothing among the crew of the galatea. To him and the little Rosa was assigned the keeping
of the pets, with such other light duties as they were capable of performing.

For the first day the voyage was uninterrupted by any incident,--at least any that might be
called unpleasant. Their slow progress, it is true, was a cause of dissatisfaction; but so
long as they were going at all, and going in the right direction, this might be borne with
equanimity. Three miles an hour was about their average rate of speed; for half of which they
were indebted to the current of the river, and for the other half to the impulsion of their
paddles.

Considering that they had still a thousand miles to go before reaching Gran Pará, the prospect
of a protracted voyage was very plainly outlined before them.

Could they have calculated on making three miles an hour for every hour of the twenty-four,
things would not have been bad. This rate of speed would have carried them to their destination
in a dozen days,--a mere bagatelle. But they knew enough of river-navigation to disregard such
data. They knew the current of the Solimoës to be extremely slow; they had heard of the strange
phenomenon, that, run which way the river might, north, south, east, or west,--and it does
keep bending and curving in all these directions,--the wind is almost always met with blowing
up stream!

For this reason they could put no dependence in their sail, and would have to trust altogether
to the paddles. These could not be always in the water. Human strength could not stand a perpetual
spell, even at paddles; and less so in the hands of a crew of men so little used to them.

Nor could they continue the voyage at night. By doing so, they would be in danger of losing
their course, their craft, and themselves!

You may smile at the idea. You will ask--a little scornfully, perhaps--how a canoe, or any
other craft, drifting down a deep river to its destination, could possibly go astray. Does
not the current point out the path,--the broad water-way not to be mistaken?

So it might appear to one seated in a skiff, and floating down the tranquil Thames, with its
well-defined banks. But far different is the aspect of the stupendous Solimoës to the voyager
gliding through its gapo.

I have made use of a word of strange sound, and still stranger signification. Perhaps it is
new to your eye, as your ear. You will become better acquainted with it before the end of our
voyage; for into the "Gapo" it is my intention to take you, where ill-luck carried the galatea
and her crew.

On leaving Coary, it was not the design of her owner to attempt taking his craft, so indifferently
manned, all the way to Pará. He knew there were several civilized settlements between,--as
Barra at the mouth of the Rio Negro, Obidos below it, Santarem, and others. At one or other
of these places he expected to obtain a supply of tapuyos, to replace the crew who had so provokingly
forsaken him.

The voyage to the nearest of them, however, would take several days, at the rate of speed the
galatea was now making; and the thought of being delayed on their route became each hour more
irksome. The ex-miner, who had not seen his beloved brother during half a score of years, was
impatient once more to embrace him. He had been, already, several months travelling towards
him by land and water; and just as he was beginning to believe that the most difficult half
of the journey had been accomplished, he found himself delayed by an obstruction vexatious
as unexpected.

The first night after his departure from Coary, he consented that the galatea should lie to,--moored
to some bushes that grew upon the banks of the river.

On the second night, however, he acted with less prudence. His impatience to make way prompted
him to the resolution to keep on. The night was clear,--a full moon shining conspicuously above,
which is not always the case in the skies of the Solimoës.

There was to be no sail set, no use made of the paddles. The crew were fatigued, and wanted
rest and repose. The current alone was to favor their progress; and as it appeared to be running
nearly two miles an hour, it should advance them between twenty and thirty miles before the
morning.

The Mundurucú made an attempt to dissuade his "patron" from the course he designed pursuing;
but his advice was disregarded,--perhaps because ill-understood,--and the galatea glided on.

Who could mistake that broad expanse of water--upon which the moon shone so clearly--for aught
else than the true channel of the Solimoës? Not Tipperary Tom, who, in the second watch of
the night,--the owner himself having kept the first,--acted as steersman of the galatea.

The others had gone to sleep. Trevannion and the three young people under the tolda; Mozey
and the Mundurucú along the staging known as the "hold." The birds and monkeys were at rest
on their respective perches, and in their respective cages,--all was silent in the galatea,
and around,--all save the rippling of the water, as it parted to the cleaving of her keel.

CHAPTER V.

THE GALATEA AGROUND.

Little experienced as he was in the art of navigation, the steersman was not inattentive to
his duty. Previously to his taking the rudder, he had been admonished about the importance
of keeping the craft in the channel of the stream, and to this had he been giving his attention.

It so chanced, however, that he had arrived at a place where there were two channels,--as if
an island was interposed in the middle of the river, causing it to branch at an acute angle.
Which of these was the right one? Which should be taken? These were the questions that occurred
to Tipperary Tom.

At first he thought of awakening his master, and consulting him, but on once more glancing
at the two channels, he became half convinced that the broader one must be the proper route
to be followed.

"Bay Japers!" muttered he to himself. "Shure I can't be mistaken. The biggest av the two ought
to be the mane sthrame. Anyway, I won't wake the masther. I'll lave it to the ship to choose
for hersilf." Saying this he relaxed his hold upon the steering oar, and permitted the galatea
to drift with the current.

Sure enough, the little craft inclined towards the branch that appeared the broader one; and
in ten minutes' time had made such way that the other opening was no longer visible from her
decks. The steersman, confident of being on the right course, gave himself no further uneasiness;
but, once more renewing his hold upon the steering oar, guided the galatea in the middle of
the channel.

