A third feature that cannot be overlooked is shown in the numerous cases of stuffed birds,
in which the specimens are exhibited, not merely by themselves on conventional perches, but
amid natural surroundings, usually associated with their nests and eggs or young. These exhibits
have high artistic value in addition to their striking scientific worth. They teach ornithology
as it should be taught, giving such clews to the recognition of birds in the fields as are
not at all to be found in ordinary collections of stuffed specimens. This feature of the museum
has, to be sure, been imitated in the American Museum of Natural History in New York, but the
South Kensington Museum was the first in the field and is still the leader.

A few words should be added as to the use made by the public of the treasures offered for their
free inspection by the British Museum. I shall attempt nothing further than a few data regarding
actual visits to the museum. In the year 1899 the total number of such visits aggregated 663,724;
in 1900 the figures rise to 689,249--well towards three-quarters of a million. The number of
visits is smallest in the winter months, but mounts rapidly in April and May; it recedes slightly
for June and July, and then comes forward to full tide in August, during which month more than
ninety-five thousand people visited the museum in 1901, the largest attendance in a single
day being more than nine thousand. August, of course, is the month of tourists--particularly
of tourists from America--but it is interesting and suggestive to note that it is not the tourist
alone who visits the British Museum, for the flood-tide days of attendance are always the Bank
holidays, including Christmas boxing-day and Easter Monday, when the working-people turn out
en masse. On these days the number of visits sometimes mounts above ten thousand.

All this, it will be understood, refers exclusively to the main building of the museum on Great
Russell Street. But, meantime, out in Kensington, at the natural history museum, more than
half a million visits each year are also made. In the aggregate, then, about a million and
a quarter of visits are paid to the British Museum yearly, and though the bulk of the visitors
may be mere sight-seers, yet even these must carry away many ideas of value, and it hardly
requires argument to show that, as a whole, the educational influence of the British Museum
must be enormous. Of its more direct stimulus to scientific work through the trained experts
connected with the institution I shall perhaps speak in another connection.

II. THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON FOR IMPROVING NATURAL KNOWLEDGE

A SESSION OF THE SOCIETY

THERE is one scientific institution in London more venerable and more famous even than the
British Museum. This, of course, is the Royal Society, a world-famous body, whose charter dates
from 1662, but whose actual sessions began at Gresham College some twenty years earlier. One
can best gain a present-day idea of this famous institution by attending one of its weekly
meetings in Burlington House, Piccadilly--a great, castle-like structure, which serves also
as the abode of the Royal Chemical Society and the Royal Academy of Arts. The formality of
an invitation from a fellow is required, but this is easily secured by any scientific visitor
who may desire to attend the meeting. The programme of the meeting each week appears in that
other great British institution, the Times, on Tuesdays.

The weekly meeting itself is held on Thursday afternoon at half-past four. As one enters the
door leading off the great court of Burlington House a liveried attendant motions one to the
rack where great-coat and hat may be left, and without further ceremony one steps into the
reception-room unannounced. It is a middle-sized, almost square room, pillared and formal in
itself, and almost without furniture, save for a long temporary table on one side, over which
cups of tea are being handed out to the guests, who cluster there to receive it, and then scatter
about the room to sip it at their leisure. We had come to hear a lecture and had expected to
be ushered into an auditorium; but we had quite forgotten that this is the hour when all England
takes its tea, the élite of the scientific world, seemingly, quite as much as the devotees
of another kind of society. Indeed, had we come unawares into this room we should never have
suspected that we had about us other than an ordinary group of cultured people gathered at
a conventional "tea," except, indeed, that suspicion might be aroused by the great preponderance
of men--there being only three or four women present--and by the fact that here and there a
guest appears in unconventional dress--a short coat or even a velvet working-jacket. For the
rest there is the same gathering into clusters of three or four, the same inarticulate clatter
of many voices that mark the most commonplace of gatherings.

But if one will withdraw to an inoffensive corner and take a critical view of the assembly,
he will presently discover that many of the faces are familiar to him, although he supposed
himself to be quite among strangers. The tall figure, with the beautiful, kindly face set in
white hair and beard, has surely sat for the familiar portrait of Alfred Russel Wallace. This
short, thick-set, robust, business-like figure is that of Sir Norman Lockyer. Yonder frail-seeming
scholar, with white beard, is surely Professor Crookes. And this other scholar, with tall,
rather angular frame and most kindly gleam of eye, is Sir Michael Foster; and there beyond
is the large-seeming though not tall figure, and the round, rosy, youthful-seeming, beautifully
benevolent face of Lord Lister. "What! a real lord there?" said a little American girl to whom
I enumerated the company after my first visit to the Royal Society. "Then how did he act? Was
he very proud and haughty, as if he could not speak to other people?" And I was happy to be
able to reply that though Lord Lister, perhaps of all men living, would be most excusable did
he carry in his manner the sense of his achievements and honors, yet in point of fact no man
could conceivably be more free from any apparent self-consciousness. As one watches him now
he is seen to pass from group to group with cordial hand-shake and pleasant word, clearly the
most affable of men, lord though he be, and president of the Royal Society, and foremost scientist
of his time.

Presently an attendant passed through the tearoom bearing a tremendous silver mace, perhaps
five feet long, surmounted by a massive crown and cross, and looking like nothing so much as
a "gigantic war-club." This is the mace which, when deposited on the president's desk in the
lecture-room beyond, will signify that the society is in session. "It is the veritable mace,"
some one whispers at your elbow, "concerning which Cromwell gave his classical command to 'Remove
that bauble.'" But since the mace was not made until 1663, some five years after Cromwell's
death, this account may lack scientific accuracy. Be that as it may, this mace has held its
own far more steadily than the fame of its alleged detractor, and its transportation through
the tea-room is the only manner of announcement that the lecture is about to open in the hall
beyond. Indeed, so inconspicuous is the proceeding, and so quietly do the members that choose
to attend pass into the lecture-hall, leaving perhaps half the company engaged as before, that
the "stranger "--as the non-member is here officially designated--might very readily fail to
understand that the séance proper had begun. In any event, he cannot enter until permission
has been formally voted by the society.

When he is allowed to enter he finds the meeting-room little different from the one he has
left, except that it is provided with a sort of throne on a raised platform at one end and
with cushioned benches for seats. On the throne, if one may so term it, sits Lord Lister, scarcely
more than his head showing above what seems to be a great velvet cushion which surmounts his
desk, at the base of which, in full view of the society, rests the mace, fixing the eye of
the "stranger," as it is alleged to have fixed that of Cromwell aforetime, with a peculiar
fascination. On a lower plane than the president, at his right and left, sit Sir Michael Foster
and Professor Arthur William Rucker, the two permanent secretaries. At Sir Michael's right,
and one stage nearer the audience, stands the lecturer, on the raised platform and behind the
desk which extends clear across the front of the room. As it chances, the lecturer this afternoon
is Professor Ehrlich, of Berlin and Frankfort-on-the-Main, who has been invited to deliver
the Croonian lecture. He is speaking in German, and hence most of the fellows are assisting
their ears by following the lecture in a printed translation, copies of which, in proof, were
to be secured at the door.

The subject of the lecture is "Artificial Immunization from Disease." It is clear that the
reader is followed with interested attention, which now and again gives rise to a subdued shuffle
of applause.

The fact that the lecturer is speaking German serves perhaps to suggest even more vividly than
might otherwise occur to one the contrast between this meeting and a meeting of the corresponding
German society--the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. Each is held in an old building of
palatial cast and dimensions, of which Burlington House, here in Piccadilly, is much the older--dating
from 1664--although its steam-heating and electric-lighting apparatus, when contrasted with
the tile stoves and candles of the other, would not suggest this. For the rest, the rooms are
not very dissimilar in general appearance, except for the platform and throne. But there the
members of the society are shut off from the audience both by the physical barrier of the table
and by the striking effect of their appearance in full dress, while here the fellows chiefly
compose the audience, there being only a small company of "strangers" present, and these in
no way to be distinguished by dress or location from the fellows themselves. It may be added
that the custom of the French Academy of Sciences is intermediate between these two. There
the visitors occupy seats apart, at the side of the beautiful hall, the main floor being reserved
for members. But the members themselves are not otherwise distinguishable, and they come and
go and converse together even during the reading of a paper almost as if this were a mere social
gathering. As it is thus the least formal, the French meeting is also by far the most democratic
of great scientific gatherings. Its doors are open to whoever may choose to enter. The number
who avail themselves of this privilege is not large, but it includes, on occasions, men of
varied social status and of diverse races and colors--none of whom, so far as I could ever
discern, attracts the slightest attention.

At the German meeting, again, absolute silence reigns. No one thinks of leaving during the
session, and to make any sound above a sigh would seem almost a sacrilege. But at the Royal
Society an occasional auditor goes or comes, there are repeated audible signs of appreciation
of the speaker's words, and at the close of the discourse there is vigorous and prolonged applause.
There is also a debate, of the usual character, announced by the president, in which "strangers"
are invited to participate, and to which the lecturer finally responds with a brief Nachwort,
all of which is quite anomalous from the German or French stand-points. After that, however,
the meeting is declared adjourned with as little formality in one case as in the others, and
the fellows file leisurely out, while the attendant speedily removes the mace, in official
token that the séance of the Royal Society is over.

THE LIBRARY AND READING-ROOM

But the "stranger" must not leave the building without mounting to the upper floor for an inspection
of the library and reading-room. The rooms below were rather bare and inornate, contrasting
unfavorably with the elegant meeting-room of the French institute. But this library makes full
amends for anything that the other rooms may lack. It is one of the most charming--"enchanting"
is the word that the Princess Christian is said to have used when she visited it recently--and
perhaps quite the most inspiring room to be found in all London. It is not very large as library
rooms go, but high, and with a balcony supported by Corinthian columns. The alcoves below are
conventional enough, and the high tables down the centre, strewn with scientific periodicals
in engaging disorder, are equally conventional. But the color-scheme of the decorations--sage-green
and tawny--is harmonious and pleasing, and the effect of the whole is most reposeful and altogether
delightful.

Chief distinction is given the room, however, by a row of busts on either side and by certain
pieces of apparatus on the centre tables.

The busts, as will readily be surmised, are portraits of distinguished fellows of the Royal
Society. There is, however, one exception to this, for one bust is that of a woman--Mary Somerville,
translator of the Mécanique Céleste, and perhaps the most popular of the scientific writers
of her time. It is almost superfluous to state that the row of busts begins with that of Newton.
The place of honor opposite is held by that of Faraday. Encircling the room to join these two
one sees, among others, the familiar visages of Dr. Gilbert; of Sir Joseph Banks, the famous
surgeon of the early nineteenth century, who had the honor of being the only man that ever
held the presidential chair of the Royal Society longer than it was held by Newton; of James
Watts, of "steam-engine" fame; of Sabine, the astronomer, also a president of the society;
and of Dr. Falconer and Sir Charles Lyell, the famous geologists.

There are numerous other busts in other rooms, some of them stowed away in nooks and crannies,
and the list of those selected for the library does not, perhaps, suggest that this is the
room of honor, unless, indeed, the presence of Newton and Faraday gives it that stamp. But
in the presence of the images of these two, and of Lyell, to go no farther, one feels a certain
sacredness in the surroundings.

If this is true of the mere marble images, what shall we say of the emblems on the centre table?
That little tubular affair, mounted on a globe, the whole cased in a glass frame perhaps two
feet high, is the first reflecting telescope ever made, and it was shaped by the hand of Isaac
Newton. The brass mechanism at the end of the next table is the perfected air-pump of Robert
Boyle, Newton's contemporary, one of the founders of the Royal Society and one of the most
acute scientific minds of any time. And here between these two mementos is a higher apparatus,
with crank and wheel and a large glass bulb that make it conspicuous. This is the electrical
machine of Joseph Priestley. There are other mementos of Newton--a stone graven with a sun-dial,
which he carved as a boy, on the paternal manor-house; a chair, said to have been his, guarded
here by a silk cord against profanation; bits of the famous apple-tree which, as tradition
will have it, aided so tangibly in the greatest of discoveries; and the manuscript of the Principia
itself--done by the hand of an amanuensis, to be sure, but with interlinear corrections in
the small, clear script of the master-hand itself. Here, too, is the famous death-mask, so
much more interesting than any sculptured portrait, and differing so strangely in its broad-based
nose and full, firm mouth from the over-refined lineaments of the sculptured bust close at
hand. In a room not far away, to reach which one passes a score or two of portraits and as
many busts of celebrities--including, by-the-bye, both bust and portrait of Benjamin Franklin--one
finds a cabinet containing other mementos similar to those on the library tables. Here is the
first model of Davy's safety-lamp; there a chronometer which aided Cook in his famous voyage
round the world. This is Wollaston's celebrated "Thimble Battery." It will slip readily into
the pocket, yet he jestingly showed it to a visitor as "his entire laboratory." That is a model
of the double-decked boat made by Sir William Petty, and there beyond is a specimen of almost,
if not quite, the first radiometer devised by Sir William Crookes.

As one stands in the presence of all these priceless relics, so vividly do the traditions of
more than two centuries of science come to mind that one seems almost to have lived through
them. One recalls, as if it were a personal recollection, the founding of the Royal Society
itself in 1662, and the extraordinary scenes which the society witnessed during the years of
its adolescence.

As one views the mementos of Boyle and Newton, one seems to be living in the close of the seventeenth
century. It is a troublous time in England. Revolution has followed revolution. Commonwealth
has supplanted monarchy and monarchy commonwealth. At last the "glorious revolution" of 1688
has placed a secure monarch on the throne. But now one external war follows another, and the
new king, William of Orange, is leading the "Grand Alliance" against the French despot Louis
XIV. There is war everywhere in Europe, and the treaty of Ryswick, in 1697, is but the preparation
for the war of the Spanish Alliance, which will usher in the new century. But amid all this
political turmoil the march of scientific discovery has gone serenely on; or, if not serenely,
then steadily, and perhaps as serenely as could be hoped. Boyle has discovered the law of the
elasticity of gases and a host of minor things. Robert Hooke is on the track of many marvels.
But all else pales before the fact that Newton has just given to the world his marvellous law
of gravitation, which has been published, with authority of the Royal Society, through the
financial aid of Halley. The brilliant but erratic Hooke lias contested the priority of discovery
and strenuously claimed a share in it. Halley eventually urges Newton to consider Hooke's claim
in some of the details, and Newton yields to the extent of admitting that the great fact of
gravitational force varying inversely as the square of the distance had been independently
discovered by Hooke; but he includes also Halley himself and Sir Christopher Wren, along with
Hooke, as equally independent discoverers of the same principle. To the twentieth-century consciousness
it seems odd to hear Wren thus named as a scientific discoverer; but in truth the builder of
St. Paul's began life as a professor of astronomy at Gresham College, and was the immediate
predecessor of Newton himself in the presidential chair of the Royal Society. Now, at the very
close of the seventeenth century, Boyle is recently dead, but Hooke, Wren, Halley, and Newton
still survive: some of them are scarcely past their prime. It is a wonderful galaxy of stars
of the first magnitude, and even should no other such names come in after-time, England's place
among the scientific constellations is secure.

