It is with heartfelt sorrow that we chronicle the murder of six missionaries in West Africa.
They were sent by the Society of United Brethren in Christ, whose central office is in Dayton,
O., and which has for many years carried forward very successful work in the Sherbro country,
Sierra Leone, West Africa. This mission was contiguous to the Mendi Mission, founded by the
A. M. A., and worked with it in Christian harmony and fellowship. When the Association retired
from foreign mission work, the Mendi Mission was turned over to the Sherbro Mission, and aid
was furnished for a time with funds from our board.

The slaughter of these devoted missionaries was brought about in consequence of a tax on houses
or huts imposed by the Sierra Leone government. The savage people in the remoter districts
pushed forward a resistance to this tax, and, confounding all white men and women together
as responsible, committed these murders and destroyed mission property. Redress may come for
property destroyed and other missionaries may take the place of those who have fallen, but
we mourn for those who have been martyrs in the cause of the Master.

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKING, THINKING, WRITING.

To print a newspaper, though it be a small one, requires dexterous hand work. To publish such
a paper demands business gifts to secure means and to plan the work. To edit such a paper calls
for readable and racy writing. Few forms of business require a greater variety of manual, skilful
and facile ability. For these reasons we are glad to find that in nearly all our larger schools
in the South, monthly papers are printed and published--with little or no expense to the Association.
The printing office teaches a useful and profitable trade to the student, the editing is usually
done by the professors and students, and the publishing is managed so that by the aid of advertising
and paid subscriptions, the expense is mainly met. These periodicals contain much valuable
information. The professors contribute well-written papers, the students furnish articles or
copies of orations or essays delivered on public occasions, and the graduates write sketches
of their life struggles and successes since leaving the institutions. Well selected items from
the world outside enrich these pages, and brief, personal paragraphs give varied and useful
local information. We present below a partial list of these publications, giving their name,
place of publication, size, etc.

THE FISK HERALD, published by the literary societies of Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn.,
is a pamphlet of 24 pages, with an editor-in-chief and assistants selected from the students.
The price is 75 cts. a year.

THE OLIO is published by the printing department of Straight University, New Orleans, La. This
also is a pamphlet, of 20 pages. Price, 25 cts. a year.

TALLADEGA COLLEGE RECORD, published by the printing department of Talladega College, Talladega,
Ala., is a four page sheet well printed, edited by students appointed for the purpose.

TOUGALOO NEWS. A well-printed sheet, 8 pages, issued quarterly at Tougaloo University, Tougaloo,
Miss.

HEAD AND HAND. Issued monthly from the Normal Training Department of Le Moyne Institute, Memphis,
Tenn., a four page sheet, 25 cts. a year. It is now in its 12th volume.

THE WORD CARRIER, published by the Normal Training School press at Santee Agency, Neb., is
a four page paper edited and published by Rev. A. L. Riggs, D.D. This sheet, well printed and
well edited, is now in its 27th volume, and presents many important phases of the Indian life
and work. 50 cts. a year.

THE GLOUCESTER LETTER, devoted to education and industry, published monthly at Cappahosic,
Gloucester Co., Va., Prof. W. B. Weaver, editor; a four page publication in its tenth year,
price, 50 cts. a year.

THE PARISH VISITOR, the official organ of the First Congregational Church, Atlanta, Ga., a
church paper edited by Rev. H. H. Proctor, with several assistants. 25 cts. a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

The South.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAMPLES AND EXAMPLES.

BY SECRETARY A. F. BEARD.

It is my lot on the routes of less frequented travel to fall in with a class of my fellowmen
distinctively known as "Commercial men." It is their business to be both inquisitive and communicative.
While waiting at some little tavern or railroad station often the right hand of fellowship
has been extended to me with the question "What is your line?" or "I see you have no trunks,
how do you carry your samples?" They do not always quite understand "our line" when I tell
them that our samples have learned to carry themselves and even to carry others. Then I am
called to explain how they began their intelligent life with us, how we took the raw material
and in process of time sent out our products from our schools and institutions with their thought
of life widened, with enlarged mental vision and the great majority of them with hopeful religious
characters and purposes. Sometimes these fellow travelers hear, and sometimes I marvel because
of their unbelief. If our readers could see our samples as we see them in their varied vocations
and places they would not soon forget them.

Not long since in Alabama I came across certain ones which are types; and as types I present
them. The environment which conditions their work and gives the color of it must needs be included.
Situated among the hills of Eastern Alabama is a thickly settled community of people about
two-thirds of whom are colored. It is in the County of Elmore, and bears the Indian name of
Kowaliga. Being near the corner of two adjoining counties, it is a rural centre from which
large numbers of children can be reached who ought to be educated, and who are anxious to "get
an education" as their one chance in life, a chance which so far has been beyond them.

Kowaliga settlement is remote from any railroad and consists wholly of plantations. These plantations
were formerly tilled by slaves, but since freedom came to those who gave their unrequited labor,
the rich white planters have become poor and many of their sons now may be seen themselves
following their plows, tilling the fields and driving mules instead of men. The country is
fertile and repays intelligent tillage.

The American Missionary Association has been applied to repeatedly for help in this settlement
of Kowaliga. Under the lead of two young college graduates, both of whom I had met while they
were students at Fisk University, the colored people with great sacrifice had contributed building
material and labor in the construction of a very substantial two-story building with attic
and basement, which, however, is yet incomplete and unfurnished. The people with few exceptions,
are extremely poor and very ignorant, and have an imperfect idea of what a school means with
its proper appointments and teachers.

In answer to the most urgent appeals of the two young educators, I arranged in my recent journeying
in the South for a personal investigation. One of the former student acquaintances came for
me in his "one horse shay" and with him as my courier and companion I rode through this rural
district. I found that the white farmers are gradually leaving their plantations while the
colored people are as gradually becoming land owners. Abandoned farms, which through poor culture
have not paid the farmers for cultivation, can easily be secured by industrious colored people
who are willing to deny themselves and work hard for an independent start in life.

The father of the young man whom I accompanied on my long ride through the country is one of
these who has already won his success. His experience and achievement are typical in illustrating
the trends and the probabilities.

Mr. J. A. Benson--at this present time forty-six years of age--was born a slave three miles
from the great plantation which he now owns. When his owner's estate was divided he was a part
of the property which fell to an heir in Talladega, Alabama. There as property he was sent,
and there he worked as a slave until emancipation came. At the age of nineteen years, with
a hundred dollars saved from his earnings as a free man he returned to his birthplace and purchased
on credit 160 acres of land. His first year of crops gave him a handsome profit and soon he
was able to pay for this land. Again he bought land, and again more year by year. Now I found
him with his new house of twelve rooms nearly completed on the site of his old one, the construction
of which was under the direction of a Negro contractor whose leading workman was a white man;
a native of that same community. The mason who did the masonry was also a Southern white man.
While engaged on this "job" both white men ate at the same table with the owner. In the "Merchant
of Venice" we read of one who said, "I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk
with you and so following, but I will not eat with you." Nevertheless there are times when
"Necessity knows no law" and this was one of the times. It was the common opinion, however,
that the excellent mason was much more expeditious than is common about his job, though he
was working by the day. His work was completed in about one-half the usual time allowed for
it. He stayed, not upon the order of his going. Doubtless a second experience would come with
less self conquest than the first.

Mr. Benson began his independent life with his unpaid farm of 160 acres. Now he owns 3,000
acres of land paid for and without encumbrance, with the virtual ownership of a fine stream,
at some points 500 feet wide, which for five miles runs through his extensive plantations.
On this stream he has a brick yard, a saw mill, a grist mill and a cotton gin and compressing
mill combined in one and operated by the water of this stream. The farm is worked on shares
chiefly, the owner furnishing the land and the stock, the laborers dividing the products half
and half.

The leases are taken by a dozen responsible and experienced farmers, who sub-contract with
the laborers under their immediate supervision. Of the 3,000 acres, one-half is devoted to
corn, cotton, cane, etc.; 500 are used for pasturage and 1,000 furnish ample supply of pine,
oak and hickory timber for the greedy teeth of his saw mill and the willing embrace of his
planing mill. He has cows, cattle, mules, horses, barns and farm implements to meet all necessities.
His teams go regularly to Montgomery markets and return with stores for the forty families
who live upon his lands and work them, and for the community who purchase of him what things
they have. Besides his possessions in land, Mr. Benson has been able to loan to his white neighbors
some $6,000, which are secured by mortgages upon their farms. They are running behind and he
is running ahead. While I was the guest of this man, opposite me at the table dined a white
man who was engaged on the carpentry of the new house. He was a native Southerner but he showed
no evidence of social injury, and if he did his carpentry work as thoroughly as he did that
of the table he certainly earned his wages.

Mr. Benson has managed with his uncommon ability to pick up education enough to achieve and
handle successfully and shrewdly these large interests; not only to know their details but
also to realize their significance and somewhat of the larger world beyond his own dominions.
The success of this self-made colored man may be somewhat exceptional in degree, but it is
not at all phenomenal. The story with the variations of personality and place could be told
a hundred times over among the colored people who began thirty years ago without a foot of
land or a dollar of money.

Among the colored people in this rural community this man is one. For the most part life has
gone on for the others without much advancement. They have not been left without a certain
kind of school for their children taught for three months out of twelve chiefly by students
who are themselves getting an education in institutions sustained by Northern benevolence;
but the teaching has been without continuity and insufficient to make much impress on character.
This far-seeing colored man realized this, and his own influence in life might have been greater
if chances had come to him in his earlier days. He has, therefore, given his son a liberal
education at college and has daughters now in the same path.

When the young man returned from his studies with Christian love in his heart to assist his
father in business he took in the situation that there must be a school here commensurate with
the needs, where the colored boys and girls might receive the blessings of an education large
and thorough enough and of such a positive Christian quality as should change the life of the
community. In some aspects it sadly needs radical change.

He called to his side one of his mates at Fisk University--a graduate of the college department--under
the conviction that for such work as this there was a call for a thorough as well as a technical
education; that there must be breadth of mental knowledge and mental vision as well as skill
of hand. The young college man with his diploma in his pocket heard the call, as scores of
samples from our institutions in our great system of schools are hearing theirs every year;
and when once there these two young men began what is to be the KOWALIGA ACADEMIC AND INDUSTRIAL
SCHOOL. They each had taken industrial training enough with their studies to know what they
were about. They sought good counsel from others and thus the main school building was begun.
Mr. Benson, the father, furnished a sufficient allotment of land for the site, the timber and
the lumber which his mills sawed and planed, and which his teams carted. The Samples supervised
and the young people and old wrought with their own hands. Generous friends from the North
lent their names to the undertaking and from and through them contributions came in amounts
sufficient to encourage but not large enough to complete. From these were named an advisory
board of friends who with an equal number of colored people in the neighborhood were called
trustees.

These are the conditions in which I introduce our Samples. It was at this stage of the proceedings
when these children of the American Missionary Association called to us for the second and
third time, "Come over and help us." We came, we saw, and they conquered. How could we do other
than honor their faith and patience with our "watch and care," and with a little faith on our
part that help enough would come to us to make their own helpfulness successful. Here in the
darkness these light bearers will give light and save life and they will do this better because
light has been given to them and they themselves have been saved.

I have given this story of Samples because it is our latest. Our picture would be out of perspective,
however, should it lead any to the conclusion that this typical illustration of conditions
and work is other than a sample in itself. Let it be known that this is what is going on in
the work of the American Missionary Association constantly year by year, every year, as it
reduplicates itself in every State of the South.

