One only gift remained, in all its native pathos, tenderness, and beauty--her voice, so sweet
before her illness, seemed, amid the wreck of youth, and joy, and love, and all that was charming
and endeared, to have only become sweeter still! She was incapable or unwilling to learn any
new airs, but she would occasionally recollect snatches of former songs or duets, which she
and Henri had sung together, and she would pour the simple melodies in strains of more than
mortal sweetness!

This, alas! was the only relic of former talent or taste that she retained; in all other respects,
her mind and body, instead of evincing symptoms of recovery, seemed to sink in utter hopelessness
and despair; and an early tomb seems to be the best and kindest boon which heaven, in its mercy,
can bestow, on the once fair and fascinating Rosalie!

Tales of all Nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAVERNS AND CLUB-HOUSES.

Almost every tavern of note about town hath or had its club. The Mermaid Tavern is immortalized
as the house resorted to by Shakspeare, Jonson, Fletcher, and Beaumont; the Devil--which, Pennant
informs us, stood on the site of Child's-place, Temple Bar--was the scene of many a merry meeting
of the choice spirits in old days; at Will's Coffee-house, in the Augustan age of English literature,
societies were held to which Steele, and Pope, and Addison belonged; Doctor Johnson, Hawkesworth,
the elder Salter, and Sir John Hawkins, were members of a club formerly held at the King's-head,
in Ivy-lane; the notorious Dick England, Dennis O'Kelly, and Hull, with their associates, had,
many years ago, a sporting-club at Munday's Coffee-house; the Three Jolly Pigeons, in Butcher-hall-lane,
was formerly the gathering place of a set of old school bibliopoles, who styled themselves
the Free and Easy Counsellors under the Cauliflower; stay-maker Hugh Kelly, Goldsmith, Ossian
Macpherson, Garrick, Cumberland, and the Woodfalls, with several noted men of that day, were
concerned in a club at the St. James's Coffee-house; the Kit-Cat, which took its name from
one Christopher Cat, a pastry-cook, was held at a tavern in King-street, Westminster; Button's--but
truly the task of enumerating the several clubs, of which we find notices "in the books," as
the lawyers have it, would be endless.--Every Night Book.

CONVERSATION OF WOMEN.

BILDERDYK.

William Bilderdyk, admired as the first poet that modern Holland has produced, and not less
distinguished by the brilliant qualities of his mind, did not, in his youth, seem to show any
happy disposition for study. His father, who formed an unfavourable opinion of his talents,
was much distressed, and frequently reproached him in severe terms for his inattention and
idleness, to which young Bilderdyk did not appear to pay much attention. In 1776, the father,
with a newspaper in his hand, came to stimulate him, by showing the advertisement of a prize
offered by the Society of Leyden, and decreed to the author of a piece of poetry, signed with
these words, "An Author 18 years old," who was invited to make himself known. "You ought to
blush, idler," said old Bilderdyk to his son. "Here is a boy only of your age, and though so
young, is the pride and happiness of his parents; and you----." "It is myself," answered young
William, throwing himself into his father's arms.

SIR ANTHONY CARLISLE,

Who has often filled the anatomical chair at the Royal Academy, is no less abstruse and instructive
than pleasant and amusing. His illustrative anecdotes are always excellent, and his way of
telling them quite dramatic. We have found him even more agreeable as a private talker than
as a lecturer; he is rich in the old lore of England--he will hunt a phrase through several
reigns--propose derivations for words which are equally ingenious and learned--follow a proverb
for generations back, and discuss on the origin of language as though he had never studied
aught beside: he knows more than any other person we ever met with of the biography of talented
individuals--in the philosophy of common life he is quite an adept--a capital chronologist--a
man of fine mind and most excellent memory: his experience has, of course, been very great,
and he has taken good advantage of it. We remember he once amused us for half a day by adducing
instances of men who, although possessed of mean talents, had enabled themselves to effect
wonders, by simply hoarding in their minds, and subsequently acting upon, an immense number
of facts: from this subject we naturally enough fell into a discourse on the importance, in
many cases and situations, of attending to trifles. As a proof of this, he mentioned a circumstance
which occurred to an eminent surgeon within his own memory; it was as follows: A gentleman,
residing about a post-stage from town, met with an accident which eventually rendered amputation
of a limb indispensable. The surgeon alluded to was requested to perform the operation, and
went from town with two pupils to the gentleman's house, on the day appointed, for that purpose.
The usual preliminaries being arranged, he proceeded to operate; the tourniquet was applied,
the flesh divided, and the bone laid bare, when, to his astonishment and horror, he discovered
that his instrument-case was without the saw! Here was a situation! Luckily his presence of
mind did not forsake him. Without apprising his patient of the terrible fact, he put one of
his pupils into his carriage, and told the coachman to gallop to town. It was an hour and a
half before the saw was obtained, and during all that time the patient lay suffering. The agony
of the operator, though great, was scarcely a sufficient punishment for his neglect in not
seeing that all his instruments were in the case before he started.

Basil Montagu, the water drinking barrister, who was present during the narration of this anecdote,
and the previous discussion, mentioned another instance of the propriety of noticing those
minor circumstances in life, which are usually suffered to pass unheeded by people in general.
A man of talent was introduced into a company of strangers; he scarcely spoke after his first
salutation until he wished the party good night. Almost every one dubbed him a fool; the lady
hostess, who, be it remarked, had not been previously informed of the abilities of her new
guest, was of a different opinion, "I am sure," said she, "that you are all wrong; for, though
he said nothing, I remarked that he always laughed in the right place."--Every Night Book.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FACT.

    Pat went to his mistress: "My lady, your mare
    In harness, goes well as a dray-horse, I swear:
    I tried, as you're thinking to sell her, or let her,
    For coming on thus, she'll go off all the better."

    "Twas very well thought of" the lady replied,
    "You've acted a sensible part.
    But Patrick, pray tell me the day that you tried,
    Of whom did you borrow the cart?"

    "The cart? why, she walk'd well in harness, I saw,
    But I thought not, by no manes, to try if she'd draw;
    For says I, by Saint Patrick, who, her comes to view,
    To tell him, she has been 'in harness' will do!"

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS.

AUGUST.

                             All around
    The yellow sheaves, catching the burning beam,
    Glow, golden lustre.

MRS. ROBINSON.

This is the month of harvest. The crops usually begin with rye and oats, proceed with wheat,
and finish with pease and beans. Harvest-home is still the greatest rural holiday in England,
because it concludes at once the most laborious and most lucrative of the farmer's employments,
and unites repose and profit. Thank heaven, there are, and must be, seasons of some repose
in agricultural employments, or the countryman would work with as unceasing a madness, and
contrive to be almost as diseased and unhealthy as the citizen. But here again, and for the
reasons already mentioned, our holiday-making is not what it was. Our ancestors used to burst
into an enthusiasm of joy at the end of harvest, and even mingled their previous labour with
considerable merry-making, in which they imitated the equality of the earlier ages. They crowned
the wheat-sheaves with flowers, they sung, they shouted, they danced, they invited each other,
or met to feast as at Christmas, in the halls of rich houses; and, what was a very amiable
custom, and wise beyond the commoner wisdom that may seem to lie on the top of it, every one
that had been concerned, man, woman, and child, received a little present, ribbons, laces,
or sweetmeats.

The number of flowers is now sensibly diminished. Those that flower newly are nigella, zinnias,
polyanthuses, love-apples, mignonette, capsicums, Michaelmas daisies, auriculus, asters or
stars, and China-asters. The additional trees and shrubs in flower are the tamarisk, altheas,
Venetian sumach, pomegranates, the beautiful passion-flower, the trumpet flower, and the virgin's
bower or clematis, which is such a quick and handsome climber. But the quantity of fruit is
considerably multiplied, especially that of pears, peaches, apricots, and grapes. And if the
little delicate white flowers have at last withdrawn from the hot sun, the wastes, marshes,
and woods are dressed in the luxuriant attire of ferns and heaths, with all their varieties
of green, purple, and gold. A piece of waste land, especially where the ground is broken up
into little inequalities, as Hampstead-heath, for instance, is now a most bright as well as
picturesque object; all the ground, which is in light, giving the sun, as it were, gold for
gold. Mignonette, intended to flower in winter, should now be planted in pots, and have the
benefit of a warm situation. Seedlings in pots should have the morning sunshine, and annuals
in pots be frequently watered.

In the middle of this month, the young goldfinch broods appear, lapwings congregate, thistle-down
floats, and birds resume their spring songs:--a little afterwards flies abound in windows,
linnets congregate, and bulls make their shrill autumnal bellowing; and towards the end the
beech tree turns yellow,--the first symptom of approaching autumn.[1]

    [1] The Months.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEOPARD-HUNTING.

The leopard of Southern Africa is known among the Cape colonists by the name of tiger; but
is, in fact, the real leopard, the Felis jubata of naturalists, well known for the beauty of
its shape and spotted skin, and the treachery and fierceness of its disposition. The animal
called leopard (luipaard) by the Cape Dutch boors, is a species of the panther, and is inferior
to the real leopard in size and beauty. Both of them are dreaded in the mountainous districts
on account of the ravages which they occasionally commit among the flocks, and on the young
cattle and horses in the breeding season.

The South African panther is a cowardly animal, and, like the hyena, flies from the face of
man. The leopard also, though his low, half-smothered growl is frequently heard by night, as
he prowls like an evil spirit around the cottage or the kraal, will seldom or never attack
mankind, (children excepted,) unless previously assailed or exasperated. When hunted, as he
usually is with dogs, he instinctively betakes himself to a tree, when he falls an easy prey
to the shot of the huntsman. The leopard, however, though far inferior in strength and intrepidity
to the lion, is yet an exceedingly active and furious animal; and when driven to extremity,
proves himself occasionally an antagonist not to be trifled with. The colonists relate many
instances of arduous and even fatal encounters with the hunted leopard. The following is one
of these adventures, which occurred in a frontier district in 1822, as described by one of
the two individuals so perilously engaged in it.

Two boors returning from hunting the Hartebeest, (antelope bubalis,) fell in with a leopard
in a mountain ravine, and immediately gave chase to him. The animal at first endeavoured to
escape by clambering up a precipice; but being hotly pressed, and slightly wounded by a musket-ball,
he turned upon his pursuers with that frantic ferocity which on such emergencies he frequently
displays, and springing upon the man who had fired at him, tore him from his horse to the ground,
biting him at the same time very severely in the shoulder, and tearing his face and arms with
his talons. The other hunter, seeing the danger of his comrade, (he was, if I mistake not,
his brother,) sprung from his horse, and attempted to shoot the leopard through the head; but,
whether owing to trepidation, or the fear of wounding his friend, or the sudden motions of
the animal, he unfortunately missed.

The leopard, abandoning his prostrate enemy, darted with redoubled fury upon this second antagonist;
and so fierce and sudden was his onset, that before the boor could stab him with his hunting-knife,
he had struck him in the eyes with his claws, and torn the scalp over his forehead. In this
frightful condition the hunter grappled with the raging beast, and struggling for life, they
rolled together down a steep declivity. All this passed so rapidly, that the other boor had
scarcely time to recover from the confusion in which his feline foe had left him, to seize
his gun, and rush forward to aid his comrade, when he beheld them rolling together down the
steep bank in mortal conflict. In a few moments he was at the bottom with them, but too late
to save the life of his friend. The leopard had torn open the jugular vein, and so dreadfully
mangled the throat of the unfortunate man, that his death was inevitable; and his comrade had
only the melancholy satisfaction of completing the destruction of the savage beast, already
exhausted with several deep wounds in the breast from the desperate knife of the expiring huntsman.--London
Weekly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

GLOAMING.

BY DELTA.

    There is a beauty in the grey twilight,
    Which minds unmusical can never know,
    A holy quietude, that yields to woe
    A pulseless pleasure, fraught with pure delight:
    The aspect of the mountains huge, that brave
    And bear upon their breasts the rolling storms;
    And the soft twinkling of the stars, that pave
    Heaven's highway with their bright and burning forms;
    The rustle of the dark boughs overhead:
    The murmurs of the torrent far away;
    The last notes of the blackbird, and the bay
    Of sullen watch-dog, from the far farm-stead--
    All waken thoughts of Being's early day,
    Loves quench'd, hopes past, friends lost, and pleasures fled.

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON READING NEW BOOKS.

There is a fashion in reading as well as in dress, which lasts only for a season. One would
imagine that books were, like women, the worse for being old;[2] that they have a pleasure
in being read for the first time; that they open their leaves more cordially; that the spirit
of enjoyment wears out with the spirit of novelty; and that, after a certain age, it is high
time to put them on the shelf. This conceit seems to be followed up in practice. What is it
to me that another--that hundreds or thousands have in all ages read a work? Is it on this
account the less likely to give me pleasure, because it has delighted so many others? Or can
I taste this pleasure by proxy? Or am I in any degree the wiser for their knowledge? Yet this
might appear to be the inference. Their having read the work may be said to act upon us by
sympathy, and the knowledge which so many other persons have of its contents deadens our curiosity
and interest altogether. We set aside the subject as one on which others have made up their
minds for us, (as if we really could have ideas in their heads,) and are quite on the alert
for the next new work, teeming hot from the press, which we shall be the first to read, to
criticise, and pass an opinion on. Oh, delightful! To cut open the leaves, to inhale the fragrance
of the scarcely-dry paper, to examine the type, to see who is the printer, (which is some clue
to the value that is set upon the work,) to launch out into regions of thought and invention
never trod till now, and to explore characters that never met a human eye before--this is a
luxury worth sacrificing a dinner party, or a few hours of a spare morning to. Who, indeed,
when the work is critical and full of expectation, would venture to dine out, or to face a
coterie of blue stockings in the evening, without having gone through this ordeal, or at least
without, hastily turning over a few of the first pages while dressing, to be able to say that
the beginning does not promise much, or to tell the name of the heroine?

    [2] "Laws are not like women, the worse for being old."--The
    Duke of Buckingham's Speech in the House of Lords, in Charles
    the Second's time.

A new work is something in our power; we mount the bench, and sit in judgment on it; we can
damn or recommend it to others at pleasure, can decry or extol it to the skies, and can give
an answer to those who have not yet read it, and expect an account of it; and thus show our
shrewdness and the independence of our taste before the world have had time to form an opinion.
If we cannot write ourselves, we become, by busying ourselves about it, a kind of accessaries
after the fact. Though not the parent of the bantling that "has just come into this breathing
world, scarce half made up," without the aid of criticism and puffing, yet we are the gossips
and foster-nurses on the occasion, with all the mysterious significance and self-importance
of the tribe. If we wait, we must take our report from others; if we make haste, we may dictate
ours to them. It is not a race, then, for priority of information, but for precedence in tattling
and dogmatising. The work last out is the first that people talk and inquire about. It is the
subject on the tapis--the cause that is pending. It is the last candidate for success, (other
claims have been disposed of,) and appeals for this success to us, and us alone. Our predecessors
can have nothing to say to this question, however they may have anticipated us on others; future
ages, in all probability, will not trouble their heads about it; we are the panel. How hard,
then, not to avail ourselves of our immediate privilege to give sentence of life or death--to
seem in ignorance of what every one else is full of--to be behind-hand with the polite, the
knowing, and fashionable part of mankind--to be at a loss and dumb-founded, when all around
us are in their glory, and figuring away, on no other ground than that of having read a work
that we have not! Books that are to be written hereafter cannot be criticised by us; those
that were written formerly have been criticised long ago; but a new book is the property, the
prey of ephemeral criticism, which it darts triumphantly upon; there is a raw thin air of ignorance
and uncertainty about it, not filled up by any recorded opinion; and curiosity, impertinence,
and vanity rush eagerly into the vacuum. A new book is the fair field for petulance and coxcombry
to gather laurels in--the butt set up for roving opinion to aim at. Can we wonder, then, that
the circulating libraries are besieged by literary dowagers and their grand-daughters, when
a new novel is announced? That mail-coach copies of the Edinburgh Review are or were coveted?
That the manuscript of the Waverley romances is sent abroad in time for the French, German,
or even Italian translation to appear on the same day as the original work, so that the longing
continental public may not be kept waiting an instant longer than their fellow-readers in the
English metropolis, which would be as tantalizing and insupportable as a little girl being
kept without her new frock, when her sister's is just come home, and is the talk and admiration
of every one in the house? To be sure, there is something in the taste of the times; a modern
work is expressly adapted to modern readers. It appeals to our direct experience, and to well-known
subjects; it is part and parcel of the world around us, and is drawn from the same sources
as our daily thoughts. There is, therefore, so far, a natural or habitual sympathy between
us and the literature of the day, though this is a different consideration from the mere circumstance
of novelty. An author now alive, has a right to calculate upon the living public; he cannot
count upon the dead, nor look forward with much confidence to those that are unborn. Neither,
however, is it true that we are eager to read all new books alike; we turn from them with a
certain feeling of distaste and distrust, unless they are recommended to us by some peculiar
feature or obvious distinction. Only young ladies from the boarding-school, or milliners' girls,
read all the new novels that come out. It must be spoken of or against; the writer's name must
be well known or a great secret; it must be a topic of discourse and a mark for criticism--that
is, it must be likely to bring us into notice in some way--or we take no notice of it. There
is a mutual and tacit understanding on this head. We can no more read all the new books that
appear, than we can read all the old ones that have disappeared from time to time.--Monthly
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PALACE OF ALI PASHA.

The secretary carried us through several chambers, decorated with much cost and barbarous splendour.
The wainscot of one of the principal saloons is inlaid with mother-of-pearl, ebony, coral,
and ivory; but the workmanship seems harsh and ungraceful. The ceiling is plastered with massive
gilding, the effect of which is rather cumbrous than ornamental; "not graced with elegancy,
but daubed with cost." Pillars, of a composition to resemble the richest marble, support the
compartments, and the cornice is coloured with some imperfect efforts at arabesque painting.
There is, however, one article extremely elegant and well-finished--a low sofa, carried round
three-fourths of the room, covered with dark velvet, tastefully embroidered, and hung with
gold fringe. The general arrangement of the rooms is certainly, grand and imposing, though
occasionally deformed by much bad taste. I should not omit to mention, that our conductor desired
us to notice two very handsome carpets, which he gave us to understand were of British manufacture.
In the apartment where Ali sleeps, the walls are hung with sabres and fire-arms of different
descriptions; all of which are ornamented with precious stones. One of the scimitars is profusely
adorned with diamonds and rubies, and a particular musket has a cartouche-box, studded with
brilliants of surpassing splendour, the central stone being nearly the size of a die. A fowling-piece,
sent to the pasha by Bonaparte, is also enriched with gems, though this last article is considered
to derive its chief value from the circumstance of having been once the property of the imperial
warrior, by whom it was presented. The chamber opens into a long and spacious gallery; at one
extremity we observed a singularly awkward piece of furniture, resembling a large old-fashioned
arm-chair. So useless an article in a Turkish palace induced me to inquire the purpose to which
it was applied; and I was informed that, on certain festivals, the pasha gives an entertainment
for the diversion of the children of the principal families in the capital, who on such occasions
assemble in the gallery. Ali himself always attends, to encourage and assist their gaiety;
and, while reclining on this cumbrous seat, distributes to them, as they are successively presented
to him, baskets of sweetmeats, and such other tokens of regard as are suited to their respective
ages and condition.--Narrative of an Excursion from Corfu to Smyrna.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLICE OFFICES AND POLICE REPORTS.

The police reports are frequently the most amusing part of the daily press: they let the reader
into many of the secrets of low, and, now and then, of high life; they are redolent of the
phraseology of the vulgar; they often tickle our fancies by their humour, and sometimes touch
our sympathies by their pathos. As anecdotes of real life; daily catalogues of droll and dismal
occurrences among our fellow-citizens; pictures of what is passing in the streets while we,
who are sober sort of folks, are dreaming in our beds; sketches of manners, and records of
the habits, feelings, and minor as well as major delinquencies of those who breathe the same
air with us; they could not fail to be interesting to us all, were we not aware that, like
the novels which are said to be "founded on fact," their most rich and racy parts are frequently
fiction.

Let not the non-gnostic portion of our readers imagine, that if they haunt the justice-seat
of Birnie and his judicial co-mates, that they will ever witness such pleasant, sparkling,
humorous examinations as those reported in the columns of the papers which matinally grace
their breakfast-tables. The tyro upon town will stare at this. Why, will he say, cannot I,
if I frequent the same place, see and hear what those who are employed for the press see and
hear there? He can; but the fact is, that our police reporters are by far too clever to set
down the words of other people, without throwing in something of their own. Their plan is to
drop the duller parts of a story or a speech, and to embellish its livelier portion--to select
the tit-bits, and sauce and spice them up sufficiently high to please the palates of the news-reading
public. The offices afford them an excellent variety of characters, which, like skilful dramatists,
they work up until they become really humorous: many of the cases afford them capital plots,
into which they cleverly dovetail pleasant little episodes, and adhere no closer to the deposed
facts than many of our by-gone playwrights have done to the sacred page of history. We allude
only to the cases of humour which occur at the police-offices: those reports which can be interesting
only in proportion as they are correct, are, in general, accurately given; but the matrimonial
squabbles, the Irish farcettas, and the frays between the Dogberrys of the night and late walkers--albeit
they may, peradventure, contain the leading facts disclosed--are highly wrought up by the fanciful
powers of those who cause the public and feed themselves at a per-line-age for the daily press.
Many cases which, on hearing, are dull and oftentimes disgusting, under the magic pens of the
police-office scribes become lively and entertaining; they are furnished with the raw material--the
metal in its ore--which they purify and polish, until it bears little or no resemblance to
what it was before it underwent the process of manufacturing for the paper-market under their
skilful hands. There are many who delight to visit the police-offices for the sake of seeing
those beings who appear there, of whom others only read: some of our readers may, perhaps,
be bitten with a similar fancy; but, we warrant, that they will find the actual doings at Bow-street
very different to what they had imagined; as Charles Mathews' Sir Harry Skelton says, "There's
nothing at all in it; people talk a great deal about it--but there's nothing in it, after all--nothing."

It is not often that we look in at morning or evening sitting of the magistrates; we are content
to have the police reports served up to us with our potted beef and buttered toast at breakfast;
we enjoy them, although we feel convinced that many of them bear no more resemblance to the
affairs they are founded on, than mock-turtle to calf's-head; still, like the soup, they are
by far the most pleasant and palatable of the two.--Every Night Book.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURRAL.

The view in front was obstructed by a high ridge, of which we had nearly gained the highest
point, when we left our horses, and running up a few yards of steep turf found ourselves all
at once on the brink of the Curral. It is a huge valley, or rather crater, of immense depth,
enclosed on all sides by a range of magnificent mountain precipices, the sides and summit of
which are broken in every variety of buttress or pinnacle--now black and craggy and beetling--at
other times spread with the richest green turf, and scattered with a profusion of the evergreen
forest-trees, indigenous to the island; while far below, in the midst of all these horrors,
smiles a fairy region of cultivation and fruitfulness, with a church and village, the white
cabins of which seem half smothered in the luxuriance of their own vines and orchards.

We gazed long and eagerly at the prospect. It is not easy to give an accurate notion of its
peculiar character; and even painting would but ill assist, for one of the most striking features
is the great and sudden depth which you look down, the effect of which we know the pencil cannot
at all convey. The side on which we stand, however, though steep, is not absolutely precipitous;
on the contrary, the gradation of crag and projection, by which it descends to the bottom,
is one of the finest things in the view. Close on our right a lofty peak presents its rocky
face to the valley, to which it bears down in a magnificent mass, shouldering its way, as it
seemed, half across it. The opposite sides appear more bare, precipitous, and lofty; and this
last character is heightened by some white clouds that rest upon and conceal their summits.

Rejoining the road, we for awhile lost sight of the valley. When we again came in view of it,
it was rapidly filling with clouds, but at first their interposition was hardly a disadvantage;
they gave a vague indefinite grandeur to the cliffs and mountains, which seemed to rise one
knew not from what depth, and lose their summits in regions beyond our ken. The breaks, too,
that occurred in this shrouding of the scene, showed fragments of it with strange effect--till
at length the whole hollow filled, and presented a uniform sea of vapour.

Rambles in Madeira.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PORTUGUESE BALL.

The ladies are carried in palanquins, and each received at the street entrance by the master
of the house--or if there be more than one lady, by some gentlemen deputed for that purpose--who
takes her hand, and so ushers her up stairs. There is much of this elaborate gallantry observable
in the manner of the Portuguese towards the sex. Thus, a man never passes a lady in the street,
or in her balcony, without taking off his hat, and this whether he be acquainted with her or
not. We understand they used to offer a similar mark of respect to the English ladies, but
desisted on finding that our gentlemen did not reciprocate in the same homage towards the fair
Portuguezas. I don't think that this difference in the manners of the two people does us credit.
Not that all that kind of homage means much. In this, as in a more serious concern, our southern
neighbours may seem to have the advantage in the practices of external devotion; but it would
be a mistake to infer from thence, that there is with us less of that service of the heart,
which, after all, is the one thing needful. The party was large, probably two hundred, including
most of the native rank and fashion of the island. We found the ladies all seated together
in one room, and the effect of this concentration was sufficiently dazzling. Some people deny
that there is any standard of female beauty; and, at any rate, there is no doubt but that habits
and associations, as well as complexional and sentimental considerations, interfere more with
our perceptions in respect to this than any other object of taste. It is not immediately that
we enter into the merits of a style of beauty very different from that which we have been accustomed
to. Perhaps it is owing to this circumstance that I was not struck by so many instances of
individual attractiveness as might have been expected in so crowded a galaxy. The traits that
first strike a stranger in a Portuguese belle, are the tendency to embonpoint in the figure,
and to darkness--I had almost said swarthiness, in complexion. This last character, however,
is not particularly obvious by candle-light; and it is always relieved by the most raven hair,
and eyes such as one seldom sees elsewhere, so large and black; if their fire were softened
by a longer lash, and their expression less fixed, there would be no resisting them. I fancy,
too, that their effect would be rather greater in a tete-a-tete than in a circle like this,
where, looking round, one sees on all sides the same eyes--and which all (it is everywhere
the reproach of black eyes) say always the same thing. Their dress was perfectly in the English
fashion; and, in general, there was something not un-English in their mise and tournure. The
superiority of French women in these matters is incontestable. Perhaps we may account for it
something on the principle by which Dr. Johnson explained the excellence of our neighbours
in cookery, when he suspected that the inferiority of their meats rendered indispensable some
extraordinary skill in dressing it. The general arrangement and progress of the evening was
very English too. They dance remarkably well, the men as well as the women. Indeed, it is,
I believe, the great end and occupation of the earlier part of their existence. We came away
at two o'clock; few of the English staid later; but among the Portuguese, the more ardent spirits
kept up the dance till long after day-break, when it is customary to serve up caldo, a sort
of chicken-broth, for their refreshment.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

What is a Lawyer?--A lawyer is a man with a pale face and sunken eyes; he passes much time
in two small rooms in one of the inns of court; he is surrounded with sheets of foolscap folio
paper, tied up with a red string; he has more books than one could read in a year, or comprehend
in seven; he walks slowly, speaks hesitatingly, and receives fees from those who visit him,
for giving "hypothetical answers" to "specious questions."

What is a Doctor?--A doctor, videlicit an M.D., is a sedate-looking personage; he listens calmly
to the story of your ailments; if your eye and skin be yellow, he shrewdly remarks that you
have the jaundice; he feels your pulse, writes two or three unintelligible lines of Latin,
for which you pay him a guinea; he keeps a chariot, and one man-servant. The standard board
behind, intended for a footman, is fearfully beset with spikes, to prevent little boys from
riding at the doctor's expense. He ingeniously lets himself in and out of his vehicle, by means
of a strap attached to the steps, so contrived, that when in, he can dexterously cause the
steps to follow. His servant is a coachman abroad, and a footman, valet, and butler at home.

What is an Author?--He is a man who weaves words into sentences; he dissects the works of his
predecessors and contemporaries, and ingeniously dovetails the pieces together again, so that
their real owners can scarcely recognise them. He is furnished with a pair of scissors and
a pot of paste. He frequents the Chapter Coffee-house by day, and the Cider-Cellar by night.
He ruralises at Hampstead or Holloway, and perhaps once a year steams it to Margate. He talks
largely, and forms the nucleus of a knot of acquaintances, who look up to him as an oracle.
He is always going to set about some work of great importance; he writes a page, becomes out
of humour with the subject, and begins another, which shares the same fate. His coat is something
the worse for wear; his wife is the only person in the world who is blind to his transcendant
abilities; and he has too much to do in cultivating his own genius, to descend to the minutias
of his children's education.

SUPERSTITION.

In a little manual of piety, composed, in 1712, for the young ladies who were then pensioners
at the monastery of St. Augustin, at Bruges, we have been surprised into frequent smiles by
the scrupulous watchfulness with which the ghostly writer followed the lady-pensioners (though
with pious fancy only) to the very sacred of sacreds! He was not contented with directing them
concerning the prayers which he believed proper to be used when they assumed, or laid aside,
their respective garments, but even directed them what to do before they attempted to close
an eye on the softness of their pillows! Prayers are specified by this zealous pastor for the
following curious occasions:--

    In putting on your petticoat.
    In putting on your night-gown.
    In dressing your head.
    In putting on your manteau.

In regard to the ceremony of laying aside these memorials of the weakness of Eve, our general
mother, there is a prayer to be offered "whilst you undress yourself;" and the ladies are strictly
enjoined, before they "get into bed, to take holy water." The writer concludes this part of
his instructions by saying, "when you are in bed, write the name of Jesus on your forehead
with your thumb!"

CROMWELL.

