Our sister, who met us at the door, felt perfectly secure, and had done nothing towards packing.
I gave her an account of our proceedings, thinking each moment of some precious thing I might
have brought away. We went to the front door, and looked out on the scene before us. The fire
seemed to come on the wings of the wind. Middle Street was ablaze; Wood's marble hotel was
in flames, together with the beautiful dwelling opposite. The fire leaped from house to house,
and, if for a moment checked, it was but to rush on in wilder fury. Churches, one by one, were
seized by the flame, and crumbled into ruin before it. No human power could arrest its fierce
progress. In vain the firemen put forth a strength almost superhuman: their exertions seemed
but to add to its fury. Explosion after explosion gave greater terror to the scene: buildings
were successively blown up in the useless effort to bar its pathway; the fire leaped the chasm
and sped on. Fugitives of every age and condition were hurrying through the streets, laden
with everything imaginable,--especially looking-glasses, which seem the one important thing
to be saved during a fire. My brother and cousin had not yet made their appearance, nor had
we seen anything of my brother-in-law, from the other end of the city. But we knew they must
be at their places of business, which were now in the heart of the burning district. Swiftly
the destruction hurried towards us; and people were now seen bringing in their goods and seeking
shelter on our premises. O what heart-broken faces surrounded us that fearful night! Friends,
and people we had never seen, alike threw themselves on our kindness; and I must say that a
spirit of humanity and good-will seemed everywhere prevalent among the citizens. We were now
ourselves tortured by suspense. Could we escape, or should we again have to seek refuge from
the flames? Surely the work of destruction would stop before it reached India Street? The hot
breath of the maddening fire, and its lurid glare, were the only response. O, if the wind would
only change! But a vane, glistening like gold in the firelight, steadfastly pointed to the
southeast. For one moment it veered, and our hearts almost stood still with hope; but it swung
back, and a feeling of despair settled upon us.

Our house was full. One poor lady, with a little baby only a week old, lay on a sofa in one
of the rooms; near her, bent over in a rocking-chair, sat an old woman who had not been out
of her house for five years, with a look of hopeless bewilderment on her wrinkled face. But
people were now beginning to move from our house. India Street was almost blocked up. Every
kind of vehicle that went upon wheels, from a barouche to a wheelbarrow, passed by laden with
furniture.

At this moment my brother and brother-in-law approached, blackened almost beyond recognition.
It was not until C---- spoke that I really knew him.

"We must be calm and collected, and save what we can. John is trying to get a team to carry
mother up to L----'s; the rest of us will have to go to the graveyard. But John may not be
successful, so you stay here, and see if you can get any one to take mother: they may do it
for you, when they wouldn't for a man."

I stood on the edge of the sidewalk, clinging to the horse-post, and appealed in vain to wagons
going by.

"Won't you take a lady and children away from here?"

"I can't, ma'am, not if you was to give me twenty-five dollars,--not if you was to give me
five hundred. I'm taking a load for a gentleman now."

So it was in every case. Very many were worse off than we were,--had not even a man to help.
One well-known citizen was appealed to for help, in the early part of the evening, by a poor
woman,--a sort of dependant of his family. He took her and her daughter, with their effects,
outside the city, and returned to find India Street on fire and no means of getting through
the crowd to his house, which was burned, with all that was not saved by the exertions of his
wife. They had visiting them a lady whose child lay dead in the house, awaiting burial. The
mother took the little corpse in her arms and carried it herself up to the other end of the city!

While I was making these vain attempts, John drove up in a light, open-topped buggy. We hurriedly
got mother and E---- into it, and gave into their charge the jewelry and silver, and they drove
away. I could not but tremble for their safety. The road seemed impassable, so dense was the
struggling crowd. On every side the fire was raging. Looking up India Street it was one sheet
of flame, and equally so before us. It looked like a world on fire, for we could see no smoke,--it
was too near for that,--and the heat was terribly intense.

There was no time to be lost. Both our servants and M----'s were away spending the Fourth,
so we had to depend entirely on ourselves. Our back fence was soon torn down, and we all worked
as we never had before. We saved a good deal, but not one half of what we brought from our
house in the first place. We had thrown things out of the window, and C---- and J---- worked
hard dragging them out of the yard, until, scorched and almost suffocated, they were compelled
to desist. The flames were upon us so quickly, it seemed incredible that they could have seized
the house so soon after we thought we were in danger.

"Thank God, we are all safe!" cried M----, sinking upon the ground in the graveyard, where
we took refuge. She tried to look cheerful; but the sight before her--her house in flames--and
the thought of her husband's absence overcame her, and she burst into tears. I laid the two
little girls upon the grass; and, wearied out, they soon fell asleep. It was a strange scene
in that quiet old cemetery, where the dead of more than a century had lain undisturbed in their
graves. Where only the reverent tread of the mourner, or of some visitor carefully threading
his way among the grassy mounds, was wont to be known, crowds of frantic people were hurrying
across; while here and there were family groups clustered together, watching the destruction
of their property.

How long the remaining hours seemed! Would the daylight never come? The children slept on,
and we four talked in low tones of the morrow.

At length, faint, rosy lights began to streak the eastern horizon, and slowly the day dawned.
The sun rose unclouded above the hills, sending down his beams upon the desolation which the
night had wrought, lighting up the islands and the blue waters, flecked with sail-boats.

Not less welcome to us, J---- now also appeared,--with a hay-cart, whose driver he had engaged
to come and remove us. Our goods were put into it; we took our places among them, and, as soon
as the tardy oxen could carry us, were safe in my sister's house, living over again in words
that fearful night, and relating to each other some of those incidents of the fire which can
never all be told. A little friend of ours, when leaving her home, took in her arms her doll,
nearly as large as herself; obliged to flee a second time, her mother told her it was useless
to try and save the doll, and she must leave it there. With many tears she laid it on the sofa,
feeling, no doubt, as if she were leaving a human being to be burnt. The next day, a friend
brought to her the identical dolly, which had been found in the graveyard! The little one's
joy may be imagined.

One of the women in the Irish quarter picked up her big pig in her arms and carried it to a
place of safety, then returned to take care of her children and furniture. A woman went by
our house in the early part of the evening bent nearly double beneath the weight of a trunk
strapped upon her back. We saw women that night with loads under which almost any man would
have staggered in ordinary circumstances.

Before we were supposed to be in danger, I walked out with a young friend to see what progress
the fire was making. At a corner we observed a woman with a child about eight years old, talking,
in great agitation, to a lady, and evidently urging her to accede to some request. My companion
suggested that we should see if we could aid her in any way. As we approached, the lady had
taken the child by the hand, with the words, "What is your address?" which was given. We inquired
if we could be of any service. "No, thank you," was the reply. "I asked that lady to take care
of my daughter. I keep store on that street over there. My husband is out of town, and I don't
know what I shall do!"--and, wringing her hands, she hurried away. I have wondered since what
was the fate of the little girl thus intrusted to the care of strangers; for the lady went
in the direction, afterwards swept by the fire.

One family, whose house the flames did not reach until near two o'clock in the morning, behaved
with great coolness. The head of the household lay ill. It was their first care to provide
for him. Then they went deliberately about, gathering up their valuables, taking just what
they wanted. They secured a wagon to carry away their things. Their house, meanwhile, had been
full of refugees from the flames. One of the young ladies, going for the last time through
the deserted rooms, found, on a sofa in the parlor, a sick woman, utterly unable to move. At
first, she felt almost in despair at sight of this poor creature, so near meeting a fearful
fate. But quickly recovering her presence of mind, she called in men from the street, and,
by their united efforts, they carried her out, and forced a passing wagon to take her to a
safe place. A young lady, who lived at a little distance from this family, was spending the
night at the other end of the city. They sat up till half past twelve, and she was then in
the act of retiring, never dreaming that her home was in danger, when a loaded wagon stopped
at the door, and out stepped her sister and child. She went back in the same vehicle, and worked
till twelve the next day, getting things out of the house, collecting and guarding them till
they could be removed.

There was, of course, the usual difference shown amongst people in such circumstances,--energy
and coolness contrasted with imbecility and frantic excitement. A friend who moved three times,
with her husband so ill that he had to be carried from place to place, never once forgot to
administer his medicine at regular intervals,--with a steady hand pouring out the drops by
the light of the fire.

A gentleman was carrying some of his books, preceded by an assistant, who also had his arms
full. The latter walked so rapidly that his employer could not keep up with him. He called
upon him to slacken his pace; but, as no attention was paid to this, the gentleman dropped
his books upon the ground, and, running forward, knocked him down, determined to be obeyed,
fire or no fire.

But all were not so cool. One man, seeing the flames advancing in the direction of his house,
rushed thither to save his property. He worked with might and main, but, when the house was
nearly emptied, became aware of the fact that it was his neighbor's. By this time his own dwelling
was on fire, from which he saved scarcely anything. I know one person who passed through his
hall perfectly empty-handed, while all around him were bundles and boxes, which were consumed
in the fire; another walked out of his house with a package of envelopes in his hand, leaving,
close by, an article worth thirty dollars.

I must mention one of many instances of unselfishness that came under my observation. A gentleman
was comfortably established in a house which he had recently bought and furnished, expecting
there to enjoy the pleasures of a home. One half of the house he had rented; but the husband
of the woman to whom it was let was not in town. Their dwelling shared the fate of those around
them, being burnt. He first set to work to save his own things; but, struck by the forlorn
condition of his tenant, he did his best to save her effects, even to the detriment of his
own; for when they were examined, the greater portion of them was found to be hers. Time has
not exhausted the truth and beauty of the saying, that "in the night the stars shine forth,"
and the stars did not pale even in the terrible light of the fire that consumed half a city.

MY LITTLE BOY.

There were nine of us, all told, when mother died; myself, the eldest, aged twenty, a plain
and serious woman, well fitted by nature and circumstance to fill the place made vacant by death.

I cannot remember when I was young. Indeed, when I hear other women recount the story of their
early days, I think I had no childhood, for mine was like no other.

Mother was married so young, that at the age when most women begin to think seriously of marriage
she had around her a numerous brood, of which I was less the elder sister than the younger
mother. She was delicate by nature, and peevish by reason of her burdens, and I think could
never have been a self-reliant character; so she fretted and sighed through life, and when
death came, unawares, she seemed not sorry for the refuge.

She called me to her bed one day in a tone so cheerful that I wondered, and when I saw the
calm and brightness in her face, hope made me glad, "Margaret," she said, "you have been a
good daughter. I never did you justice until this illness opened my eyes. You have shamed me
by your patience and your sacrifices so gently borne. You are more fit to be a mother than
I ever was; and I leave the children to your care without a fear. It is not likely you will
ever marry, and I die content, knowing that you will do your duty."

After this came many sad days,--the parting, the silent form which death had made majestic,
the funeral hymns, the tolling bell, the clods upon the coffin-lid; and when the sun shone
out and the birds sang again, it seemed to me I had dreamed it all, and that the sun could
not shine nor the birds sing above a grave on which the grass had not yet had time to grow.
But I had not dreamed, nor had I time for dreaming. Mother was dead, and eight children claimed
from me a mother's care,--the youngest a wailing babe but seven days old, whom I came to cherish
and love as my little boy.

When I had settled down, and grown accustomed to the vacuum which never could be filled for
me, I thought a great deal upon mother's last words. I was proud of the trust she reposed in
me, and I meant to be faithful to it. I wondered much why she had thought it likely I should
never marry; for I was a woman with strong instincts, and, amid all the toil and care of my
barren life, I had seen afar, through gleaming mists, the mountains of hope arise, and beyond
the heat and dust and labor of duty caught glimpses of green ways made pleasant by quiet waters.

I do not think my burden seemed heavier now that mother no longer helped me to bear it; for
my sense of responsibility had been increased by her complaining spirit. Her discouraging views
of life held in check the reins of my eager fancy: it seemed wrong to enjoy a happiness I could
not share with her. Now I no longer felt this restraint; but, knowing that somehow she had
missed this happiness for which I waited, the knowledge invested her memory with a tender pity,
and tempered my pleasure with a feeling akin to pain.

I was never idle. Behind the real work of life, my fancy wrought on, unknown and unsuspected
by the world; my lamp of joy, fed by the sweet oil of hope, was ready for the lighting, and
I was content to wait.

My little boy throve bravely. Every morning I awoke him with a kiss; and, perhaps because each
day seemed but a continuation of the other, time stood still for him. He was for me the incarnation
of all loveliness. The fair face, and blond hair, and brown, brooding eyes, were beautiful
as an angel's, and goodness set its seal on his perfections. He gave me no trouble: grief brings
age, joy confirms youth, and I and my little boy grew young together. He was with me everywhere,
lightening my labor with his prattling tongue, helping me with his sweet, hindering ways; and
when the kisses had been many that had waked him many morns, he stood beside me, my little
boy, hardly a hand's breadth lower than myself.

The world had changed for all but him and me. My father had wandered off to foreign parts;
sisters and brothers, one by one, had gone forth to conquer kingdoms and reign in their own
right, and one young sister, just on the border-land of maiden fancies, (O friends, I write
this line with tears!) turned from earth and crossed the border-land of heaven.

But he and I remained alone in the old homestead, and walked together sweetly down the years.

If I came upon disappointment, I had not sought it, neither did I fall by it; but that which
was my future slid by me and became the past, so gently that I scarce remember where one ended
or the other began; and though all other lovers failed me, one true remained, to whom I ever
would be true. The future did not look less fair; nay, I deemed it more full of promise than
ever. It was as though I had passed from my old stand-point of observation to a more easterly
window; and the prospect was not the less enchanting that I looked upon it over the shoulder
of my little boy. We talked much of it together; and though he had the nearer view, it was
my practised vision that saw pathways of beauty not yet suspected by him.

But we were still happy in the present, and did not speculate much upon the future. The rolling
years brought him completeness, and to the graces of person were added the gifts of wisdom
and knowledge. The down that shaded his cheek, like the down upon a ripe peach, had darkened
and strengthened to the symbol of manhood, and his words had the clear ring of purpose. For
there was a cloud upon the horizon which at first was no bigger than a man's hand, but it grew
until it filled the land with darkness, and the fair prospect on which I had so loved to gaze
was hidden behind the storm. My little boy and I looked into each other's faces, and he cried,
"Margaret, I must go!"

I did not say nay,--for the tears which were not in my eyes were in my voice, and to speak
was to betray them,--but I turned about to make him ready.

In these days my little boy's vision was finer than my own; and when we stood together, looking
from our orient window, he saw keener and farther than I had ever done; for my eyes now looked
through a veil of tears, while his, like the eagle's, penetrated the cloud to the sunshine
behind it. He was full of the dream of glory; and his words, fraught with purpose and power,
stirred me like a trumpet. I caught the inspiration that thrilled his soul; for we had walked
so long together that all paths pursued by him must find me ever at his side.

One day I was summoned to meet a visitor; and going, a tall figure in military dress gave me
a military salute. It was my little boy, who, half abashed at his presumption, drew himself
up, and sought refuge from shyness in valor. It was not a sight to make me smile, though I
smiled to please my warrior, who, well pleased, displayed his art, to show how fields were
won. Won! He had no thought of loss; for youth and hope dream not of defeat, and he talked
of how the war was to be fought and ended, and all should be well.

I kissed my little boy good night; and he slept peacefully, dreaming of fields of glory, as
Jacob dreamed and saw a heavenly vision.

He went; and then it seemed as if there had been with him one fair long summer day, and this
was the evening thereof; and my heart was heavy within me.

But many letters reached me from the distant field,--long and loving letters, full of hope,
portraying all the poetry and beauty of camp-life, casting the grosser part aside; and to me
at home, musing amid peaceful scenes, it seemed a great, triumphant march, which must crush,
with its mere display of power, all wicked foes. But the sacrifice of blood was needed for
the remission of sin, and these holiday troops--heroes in all save the art of war--lost the
day, and, returning, brought back with their thinned ranks my little boy unharmed. Unharmed,
thank God! but bronzed and bearded like the pard, and tarnished with the wear and burnished
with the use of war.

How he talked and laughed, making light of danger, and, growing serious, said the fight had
but begun,--the business of the nation must, for years, be war,--and that his strength and
manhood, nay, his life if need be, should be given to his country. Then his words made me brave,
and his looks made me proud. I blessed him with unfaltering lips; and above the hills of promise,
which my little boy and I saw looking from our orient window, rose higher yet the mountains
of truth, with the straight path of duty leading to the skies. But when he was gone again,--gone,--there
fell a shadow of the coming night, and the evening and the morning were the second day.

His frequent letters dissipated the sense of danger, and brought me great comfort. War is not
a literary art, and letters from the "imminent deadly breach," made it seem less deadly. His
self-abnegation filled me with wonder. "It is well that few should be lost, that many may be
saved," he wrote. In what school had this tender youth learned heroism, I asked myself, as
I read his noble words and trembled at his courage.

My dreams and my gaze turned southward. No eastern beams lured me to that lookout so long endeared;
for the eyes through which I once gazed looked through the smoke of battle, and hope and faith
had fled with him, and left me but suspense.

Now came hot work. The enemy pressed sorely, and men's--ay, and women's--souls were tried.
Long days of silence passed, days of sickening doubt, and then came the news of victory,--victory
bought with precious blood and heavy loss. Over the ghastly hospital lists I hung, fearing
and dreading to meet the name of my little boy, taking hope, as the list shortened, from the
despair of others, and no mention. Thank God, who giveth us the victory!

And later, when details come in, I see in "official report" my little boy's name mentioned
for meritorious and gallant conduct, and recommended for promotion. Ah! the groans of the dying
are lost in the shouts of the victor; and, forgetting the evil because of this good, a woman's
heart cried, Laus Deo!

After the battle, hardly fought and dearly purchased, my hero came home on furlough. War had
developed him faster than the daily kisses of love had done; for my little boy--crowned with
immortal youth for me--for all the world came from this rude embrace a man in stature and wisdom,
a hero in valor and endurance, a leader beloved and revered.

But for all this I tucked him in o' nights, and shut off harmful draughts from him who oft
had lain upon the sod, and for covering had but the cloudy sky.

These were blissful days,--marked in the past by white memories,--in which we talked of future
plans, the future so near, yet to our vision so remote, and purposed this and that, not considering
that Heaven disposes all things.

