In turn, Samuel Armstrong, the founder of Hampton Institute, took up his work as a trainer
of youth. He had very raw material, and doubtless most of his pupils failed to get the greatest
lessons from him; but, as he had been a peculiarly receptive pupil of Dr. Hopkins, so Booker
Washington became a peculiarly receptive pupil of his. To the formation of Mr. Washington's
character, then, went the missionary zeal of New England, influenced by one of the strongest
personalities in modern education, and the wide-reaching moral earnestness of General Armstrong
himself These influences are easily recognizable in Mr. Washington to-day by men who knew Dr.
Hopkins and General Armstrong.

I got the cue to Mr. Washington's character from a very simple incident many years ago. I had
never seen him, and I knew little about him, except that he was the head of a school at Tuskegee,
Alabama. I had occasion to write to him, and I addressed him as "The Rev. Booker T. Washington."
In his reply there was no mention of my addressing him as a clergyman. But when I had occasion
to write to him again, and persisted in making him a preacher, his second letter brought a
postscript: "I have no claim to 'Rev.'" I knew most of the coloured men who at that time had
become prominent as leaders of their race, but I had not then known one who was neither a politician
nor a preacher; and I had not heard of the head of an important coloured school who was not
a preacher. "A new kind of man in the coloured world," I said to myself--"a new kind of man
surely if he looks upon his task as an economic one instead of a theological one." I wrote
him an apology for mistaking him for a preacher.

The first time that I went to Tuskegee I was asked to make an address to the school on Sunday
evening. I sat upon the platform of the large chapel and looked forth on a thousand coloured
faces, and the choir of a hundred or more behind me sang a familiar religious melody, and the
whole company joined in the chorus with unction. I was the only white man under the roof, and
the scene and the songs made an impression on me that I shall never forget. Mr. Washington
arose and asked them to sing one after another of the old melodies that I had heard all my
life; but I had never before heard them sung by a thousand voices nor by the voices of educated
Negroes. I had associated them with the Negro of the past, not with the Negro who was struggling
upward. They brought to my mind the plantation, the cabin, the slave, not the freedman in quest
of education. But on the plantation and in the cabin they had never been sung as these thousand
students sang them. I saw again all the old plantations that I had ever seen; the whole history
of the Negro ran through my mind; and the inexpressible pathos of his life found expression
in these songs as I had never before felt it.

And the future? These were the ambitious youths of the race, at work with an earnestness that
put to shame the conventional student life of most educational institutions. Another song rolled
up along the rafters. And as soon as silence came, I found myself in front of this extraordinary
mass of faces, thinking not of them, but of that long and unhappy chapter in our country's
history which followed the one great structural mistake of the Fathers of the Republic; thinking
of the one continuous great problem that generations of statesmen had wrangled over, and a
million men fought about, and that had so dwarfed the mass of English men in the Southern States
as to hold them back a hundred years behind their fellows in every other part of the world--in
England, in Australia, and in the Northern and Western States; I was thinking of this dark
shadow that had oppressed every large-minded statesman from Jefferson to Lincoln. These thousand
young men and women about me were victims of it.