I have been thus particular in describing these "histories", because the subjects of them are
identical with those in Fuller's Holy and Profane State, the first edition of which was published
at Cambridge, in 1642. "The characters I have conformed," says Fuller in his Preface, "to the
then standing laws of the realm (a twelvemonth ago were they sent to the press), since which
time the wisdom of the King and state hath" altered many things. Nicholas Ferrar died December
2, 1637, and the Query I wish to ask is, Did Fuller compose them (for that he was really the
author of them can hardly be doubted) at the suggestion and for the benefit of the community
at Gidding, some years before he published them; and is it possible to ascertain and determine
if the MS. is in the handwriting of Ferrar or Fuller?

Is there any print or view in existence of the "Nunnery," at Little Gidding?

In the Life of Dr. Thomas Fuller, published anonymously in 1661, it is stated, that at his
funeral a customary sermon was preached by Dr. Hardy, Dean of Rochester, "which hath not yet
(though it is hoped and much desired may) passe the presse," p. 63.

Query. Was this sermon ever published? and secondly, who was the author of the Life from which
the above passage is quoted?

John Miland.

       *       *       *       *       *

STUKELEY'S "STONEHENGE."

May I request a space in your periodical for the following Queries, drawn from Dr. Stukeley's
Stonehenge and Abury, p. 31.?

    1st. "But eternally to be lamented is the loss of that tablet of
    tin, which was found at this place (Stonehenge) in the time of
    King Henry VIII., inscribed with many letters, but in so strange
    a character that neither Sir Thomas Elliott, a learned
    antiquary, nor Mr. Lilly, master of St. Paul's school, could
    make any thing out of it. Mr. Sammes may be right, who judges it
    to have been Punic. I imagine if we call it Irish we shall not
    err much. No doubt but what it was a memorial of the founders,
    wrote by the Druids and had it been preserved till now, would
    have been an invaluable curiosity."

Can you or any of your contributors give me any further information about this inscription?

2. The Doctor continues,

    "To make the reader some amends for such a loss I have given a
    specimen of supposed Druid writing, out of Lambecius' account of
    the Emperor's library at Vienna. 'Tis wrote on a very thin plate
    of gold with a sharp-pointed instrument. It was in an urn found
    at Vienna, rolled up in several cases of other metal, together
    with funeral exuviæ. It was thought by the curious, one of those
    epistles which the Celtic people were wont to send to their
    friends in the other world. The reader may divert himself with
    trying to explain it."

Has this inscription ever been explained, and how? Stukeley's book is by no means a rare one;
therefore I have not trusted myself to copy the inscription: and such as feel disposed to help
me in my difficulty would doubtless prefer seeing the Doctor's own illustration at p. 31.

Henry Cunliffe.

Hyde Park Street.{120}

ATHELSTANE'S FORM OF DONATION.--MEANING OF "SOMAGIA."

Tristram Risdon, in his quaint Survey of the Co. of Devon, after mentioning the foundation
of the church of High Bickington by King Athelstane,

    "Who," he says, "gave to God and it one hide of land, as
    appeareth by the donation, a copy whereof, for the antiquity
    thereof, I will here insert: 'Iche Athelstane king, grome of
    this home, geve and graunt to the preist of this chirch, one
    yoke of mye land frelith to holde, woode in my holt house to
    buyld, bitt grass for all hys beasts, fuel for hys hearth,
    pannage for hys sowe and piggs, world without end,'"--

adds presently afterwards, that

    "Sir John Willington gave Weeksland in this tything, unto
    Robert Tolla, cum 40 somagia annuatim capiend in Buckenholt
    (so be the words of the grant) in the time of K. Edw. I."

The Willingtons were lords of the manor of Umberleigh, where Athelstane's palace stood, with
its chapel dedicated to the Holy Trinity, formerly rich in ancient monuments, and having a
chantry near to it. Some of the monuments from this chapel are still preserved in the neighbouring
church of Atherington.

My Queries upon this Note are:

1. Whence did Risdon derive his copy of King Athelstane's form of donation? 2. What is the
precise meaning of the word Somagia?

In Ducange (ed. Par. 1726, tom. vi. col. 589.) I find:

    "Somegia. Præstatio, ut videtur ex summis, v. gr. bladi,
    frumenti. Charta Philippi Reg. Franc. an. 1210. Idem etiam
    Savaricus detinet sibi census suos, et venditiones, et quosdam
    reditus, qui Somegiæ vocantur, et avenam, et captagia
    hominum et foeminarum suarum, qui reditus cum una Somegiarum in
    festo B. Remigii persolverentur; deinde secunda Somegia in
    vicesima die Natalis Domini, et tertia in Octabis Resurrectionis
    Dominicæ, ei similiter persolventur; caponum etiam suorum in
    crastino Natalis Domini percipiet solutionem: unaquæque vero
    somegiarum quatuor denarios bonæ monetæ valet."

Ducange refers also to some kindred words; but, instead of clearing up my difficulty in the
word somagia, he presents me with another in captagia, the meaning of which I do not clearly
understand. Perhaps some of your more learned contributors will obligingly help me to the true
import of these words?

J. Sansom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Charade.--Can any one tell who is the author of the following charade? No doubt, the lines
are well known to many of your readers, although I have never seen them in print. It has been
said that Dr. Robinson, a physician, wrote them. It strikes me that the real author, whoever
he be, richly deserves to be named in "Notes and Queries."

  "Me, the contented man desires,
  The poor man has, the rich requires;
  The miser gives, the spendthrift saves,
  And all must carry to their graves."

It can scarcely be necessary to add that the answer is, nothing.

Alfred Gatty.

July 1. 1850.

"Smoke Money."--Under this name is collected every year at Battle, in Sussex, by the Constable,
one penny from every householder, and paid to the Lord of the Manor. What is its origin and
meaning?

B.

"Rapido contrarius orbi."--What divine of the seventeenth century adopted these words as his
motto? They are part of a line in one of Owen's epigrams.

N.B.

Lord Richard Christophilus.--Can any of your readers give any account of Lord Richard Christophilus,
a Turk converted to Christianity, to whom, immediately after the Restoration, in July, 1660,
the Privy Council appointed a pension of 50l. a-year, and an additional allowance of 2l. a-week.

CH.

Fiz-gigs.--In those excellent poems, Sandys's Paraphrases on Job and other Books of the Bible,
there is a word of a most destructive character to the effect. Speaking of leviathan, he asks,

    "Canst thou with fiz-gigs pierce him to the quick?"

It may be an ignorant question, but I do not know what fiz-gigs are.

C.B.

Specimens of Erica in Bloom.--Can any of your correspondents oblige me by the information where
I can procure specimens in bloom of the following plants, viz. Erica crescenta, Erica paperina,
E. purpurea, E. flammea, and at what season they come into blossom in England? If specimens
are not procurable without much expense and trouble, can you supply me with the name of a work
in which these plants are figured?

E.S.

Dover.

Michael Scott, the Wizard.--What works by Michael Scott, the reputed wizard, (Sir Walter's
Deus ex Machina in The Lay of the Last Minstrel), have been printed?

X.Y.A.

Stone Chalices.--Can any of the readers of "Notes and Queries" inform me whether the use of
stone chalices was authorised by the ancient constitutions of the Church; and, if so, at what
period, and where the said constitutions were enacted?

X.Y.A.

       *       *       *       *       *{121}

REPLIES.

ULRICH VON HUTTEN AND THE "EPISTOLÆ OBSCURORUM VIRONUM."

(Vol. ii., p. 55.)

I have never seen the article in the Quarterly Review to which your correspondent H.B.C. alludes:
he will probably find it by reference to the index, which is not just now within my reach.
The neat London edition, 1710, of the Epistolæ was given by Michael Mattaire. There are several
subsequent reimpressions, but none worth notice except that by Henr. Guil. Rotermund, Hanover,
1827, 8vo.; and again, with improvements, "cum nova præfatione, nec non illustratione historica
circa originem earum, atque notitia de vita et scriptis virorum in Epistolis occurentium aucta,"
1830, both in 8vo.

The best edition, however, is that given by Dr. Ernst Münch, Leipsic, 1827, 8vo., with the
following title:

    "Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum aliaque Ævi Decimi sexti Monimenta
    Rarissima. Die Briefe der Finsterlinge an Magister Ortuinus von
    Deventer, nebst andern sehr seltenen Beiträgen zur
    Literatur-Sitten-und-Kirchengeschichte des xvi'n Jahrhunderts."

This contains many important additions, and a copious historical introduction. Both the editors
write in German.

That this admirable satire produced an immense effect at the period of its publication, there
can be no doubt; but that it has ever been thoroughly understood and relished among us may
be doubted. Mr. Hallam, in his Literature of Europe, vol. i., seems to have been disgusted
with the monkish dog-Latin and bald jokes, not recollecting that this was a necessary and essential
part of the design. Nor is it strange that Steele, who was perhaps not very well acquainted
with the history of literature, should have misconceived the nature of the publication, when
we learn from an epistle of Sir Thomas More to Erasmus, that some of the stupid theologasters
themselves, who were held up to ridicule, received it with approbation as a serious work:

    "Epist. Obs. Viror. operæ pretium est videre quantopere
    placeant omnibus, et doctis joco, et indoctis serio, qui dum
    ridemus, putant rideri stylum tantum, quem illi non defendunt,
    sed gravitate sententiarum dicunt compensatum, et latere sub
    rudi vagina pulcherrimum gladium. Utinam fuisset inditus libello
    alius titulus! Profecto intra centum annos homines studio
    stupidi non sensissent nasum, quamquam rhinocerotico
    longiorem."[8]

Erasmus evidently enjoyed the witty contrivance, though he affects to disapprove it as an anonymous
libel. Simler, in his life of Bullinger, relates that on the first reading Erasmus fell into
such a fit of laughter as to burst an abscess in his face with which he was at that time troubled,
and which prevented the necessity of a surgical operation.

The literary history of the Epistolæ and the Dialogue is involved in obscurity. That Ulrich
von Hutten had a large share in their concoction there can be no doubt; and that he was assisted
by Crotus Rubianus and Hermann von Busch, if not by others, seems highly probable. The authorship
of Lamentationes Obscurorum Virorum is a paradox which has not yet been solved. They are a
parody, but a poor one, of the Epistolæ, and in the second edition are attributed to Ortuinus
Gratius. If they are by him, he must have been a dull dog indeed; but by some it has been thought
that they are the work of a Reuchlinist, to mystify the monks of Cologne, and render them still
more ridiculous; yet, as the Pope's bull against the Epistolæ, and Erasmus's disapproving letter,
find a prominent place, and some other well-grounded inculpations occur, it appears to me that
some slender-witted advocate of the enemies of learning has here shown his want of skill in
handling the weapons of the adversary.

How much Sir Thomas More was pleased with the writings of Hutten we may gather from the opening
of a letter which Erasmus addressed to Hutten, giving an interesting account of his illustrious
friend, in August, 1519:

    "Quod Thomæ Mori ingenium sic deamas, ac penè dixerim deperis,
    nimirum scriptis illius inflammatus, quibus (ut verè scribis)
    nihil esse potest neque doctius neque festivius; istue mibi
    crede, clarissime Huttene tibi cum multis commune est, cum Moro
    mutuum etiam. Nam is vicissim adeò scriptorum tuorum genio
    delectatur, ut ipse tibi plopemodum invideam."

The Dialogue (Mire Festivus), which in the edition of 1710 occurs between the first and second
parts of the Epistolæ, bears especial marks of Hutten's manner, and is doubtless by him. The
interlocutors are three of the illustrious obscure, Magisters Ortuinus, Lupoldus, and Gingolphus,
and the first act of the comedy consists in their observations upon the promoters of learning,
Reuchlin, Erasmus, and Faber Stapulensis, who afterwards make their appearance, and the discussion
becomes general, but no impression can be made upon the stupid and prejudiced monks. The theme
is, of course, the inutility of the new learning, Hebrew and Greek and correct Latinity. One
short passage seems to me admirable:{122}

    "M. Ging. Et Sanctus Ambrosius, Sanctus Augustinus, et alii
    omnes zelossimi doctores non sciebant ipsi bene tot, sicut iste
    Ribaldi? M. Ort. Ipsi deberent interponere suis. M. Lup. Non
    bene indigemus de suo Græco. M. Ging. Videtur eis, qui sciunt
    dicere tou, tou, logos, monsotiros, legoim, taff, hagiotatos,
    quod ipse sciunt plus quam Deus. M. Ort. Magister noster
    Lupolde, creditis, quod Deus curat multum de iste Græco? M.
    Lup. Certe non, Magister noster Ortuine, ego credo, quod Deus
    non curat multum."

Ranke, in his History of the Reformation, has very justly estimated the merits and character
of these remarkable productions:

    "We must not look for the delicate apprehension and tact, which
    can only be formed in a highly polished state of society, nor
    for the indignation of insulted morality expressed by the
    ancients: it is altogether a caricature, not of finished
    individual portraits, but of a single type;--a clownish sensual
    German priest, his intellect narrowed by stupid wonder and
    fanatical hatred, who relates with silly naïveté and gossiping
    confidence the various absurd and scandalous situations into
    which he falls. These letters are not the work of a high
    poetical genius, but they have truth, coarse strong features of
    resemblance, and vivid colouring."

Ranke mentions another satire, which appeared in March, 1520, directed against John Eck, the
opponent of Luther, the latter being regarded in the light of a successor of Reuchlin, under
the title of Abgehobelte Eck, or Eccius dedolatus, "which, for fantastic invention, striking
and crushing truth, and Aristophanic wit, far exceeded the Literæ Obsc. V., which it somewhat
resembled." I have not yet been able to meet with this; but such high praise, from so judicious
a critic, makes me very desirous to see and peruse it.

S.W. Singer.

Mickleham, July 3. 1850.

[Footnote 8: "Ubi primum exissent Ep. Ob. V. miro Monachorum applausu exceptæ sunt apud Britannos
a Franciscanis ac Dominicanis, qui sibi persuadebant, eas in Reuchlini contumeliam, et Monachorum
favorem, serio proditus: quamque quidam egregie doctus, sed nasutissimus, fingeret se nonnihil
offendi stylo, consulati sunt hominem."--Erasm. Epist. 979.]

Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum.--Your Querist H.B.C. (Vol. ii., pp. 55-57.) will find, in the
53rd vol. Edinb. Rev. p. 180., a long article on these celebrated letters, containing much
of the information required. It is worthy of remark, that in page 195. we are told

    "In 1710 there was printed in London the most elegant edition
    that has ever appeared of these letters, which the editor, Mich.
    Mattaire, gravely represents as the productions of their
    ostensible authors."

Now this edition, though neat, has no claim to be termed most elegant, which is hardly to be
reconciled with what the reviewer says in a note, p. 210., "that the text of this ed. of 1710
is of no authority, and swarms with typographical blunders."

The work on its first appearance produced great excitement, and was condemned by Pope Leo X.
See Dict. des Livres Condamnés, &c., par Peignot, tom. ii. p. 218.

Many amusing anecdotes and notices are to be found in Bayle's Dict. See particularly sub nomine
Erasmus. Burton, in his Anatomy of Mel. pt. i. sec. 2. Mem 3 sub 6. citing Jovius in Elogiis, says,

    "Hostratus cucullatus adeo graviter ob Reuchlini librum qui
    inscribitur, Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum dolore simul et pudore
    sauciatus, et scipsum interfecerit."

See also Nouv. Diction. Historique in the account of Gratius, O.

There is also a good article on these letters in a very excellent work entitled Analectabiblion,
or Extraits Critique de divers Livres rares, &c., tiréz du Cabinet du Marq. D. R. (oure). Paris,
1836. 2 tomes 8vo.

F.R.A.

Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum.--The article inquired for by H.B.C. (Vol. ii, p. 55) is probably
one in the Edinburgh Review, vol. liii. p. 180., attributed to Sir William Hamilton, the distinguished
Professor of Logic in the university of Edinburgh.

CH.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAXTON'S PRINTING-OFFICE.

(Vol. ii., p. 99.)

Mr. Rimbault is wrong in giving to Abbot Milling the honour of being the patron of Caxton,
which is due to Abbot Esteney. Mr. C. Knight in his Life of Caxton, which appropriately formed
the first work of his series of Weekly Volumes, has the following remarks upon the passage
from Stow, quoted by Mr. Rimbault:

    "The careful historians of London here committed one error; John
    Islip did not become abbot of Westminster till 1500. John
    Esteney was made abbot in 1474, and remained such until his
    death in 1498. His predecessor was Thomas Milling. In Dugdale's
    Monasticon we find, speaking of Esteney, 'It was in this
    abbot's time, and not in that of Milling, or in that of Abbot
    Islip, that Caxton exercised the art of printing at
    Westminster.'"--p. 140. #/

I have no work at hand to which I can refer for the date of Milling's death, but if 1492 be
correct, perhaps he may have been promoted to a bishoprick.

With reference to Mr. Rimbault's remark, that Caxton first mentions the place of his printing
in 1477, so that he must have printed some time without informing us where, I may be allowed
to observe that it seems highly probable he printed, and indeed learned the art, at Cologne.

This may refer to the translation only; but as Caxton was both translator and printer, it does
not seem unreasonable to regard it as indicating when his entire labour upon the work was brought
to a close. I might support the view that Caxton printed at Cologne by other arguments which
would make the matter tolerably certain (see Life of Caxton, p. 125., &c.); but as the excellent
little work to which I am indebted for these particulars is so well known, and so easily accessible,
I should not be justified in occupying more of your space, and I will therefore conclude with
noting that the parochial library at Shipdham, in Norfolk, is said to contain books printed
by Caxton and other early printers. Perhaps some one of your correspondents would record, for
the general benefit, of what they consist.

Arun.

Dr. Rimbault has evidently not seen a short article on Caxton's printing at Westminster, which
I inserted in the Gentleman's Magazine for April, 1846, nor the reference made to it in the
magazine for June last, p. 630., or he would have admitted that his objections to Dr. Dibdin's
conjectures on this point had been already stated; moreover, I think he would have seen that
the difficulty had been actually cleared up. In truth, the popular misapprehension on this
subject has not been occasioned by any obscurity in the colophons of the great printer, or
in the survey of Stow, but merely by the erroneous constricted sense into which the word abbey
has passed in this country. Caxton himself tells us he printed his books in "th' abbay of Westminstre,"
but he does not say in the church of the abbey. Stow distinctly says it was in the almonry
of the abbey; and the handbill Dr. Rimbault refers to confirms that fact. The almonry was not
merely "within the precincts of the abbey," it was actually a part of the abbey. But why so?
Did not the chapel continue a chapel until the Reformation, if not later? And Caxton would
no more set up his press in a chapel than in the abbey-church itself. Stow says it was erected
in the almonry. The almonry was one of the courts of the abbey, (situated directly west of
the abbey-church, and not east, as Dr. Dibdin surmised); it contained a chapel dedicated to
St. Anne, and latterly an almshouse erected by the Lady Margaret. The latter probably replaced
other offices or lodgings of greater antiquity, connected with the duties of the almoner, or
the reception and relief of the poor; and there need be no doubt that it was one of these buildings
that the Abbot of Westminster placed at the disposal of our proto-typographer. There was nothing
very extraordinary in his so doing if we view the circumstance in its true light; for the scriptoria
of the monasteries had ever been the principal manufactories of books. A single press was now
to do the work of many pens. The experiment was successful; "after which time," as Stow goes
on to say, "the like was practised in the Abbeys of St. Augustine, at Canterbury, St. Alban's,
and other monasteries." The monks became printers instead of scribes; but they would not ordinarily
convert their churches or chapels into printing-houses. The workmen, it is true, term the meetings
held for consultation on their common interests or pleasures, their chapels; and whether this
may have arisen from any particular instance in which a chapel was converted into a printing-house,
I cannot say. In order to ascertain the origin of this term these Queries may be proposed:--Is
it peculiar to printers and to this country? Or is it used also in other trades and on the
Continent?

John Gough Nichols.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW TEMPLE.

Although I am unable to give a satisfactory reply to Mr. Foss's inquiries, such information
as I have is freely at his service. It may, at all events, serve as a finger-post to the road.

My survey gives a most minute extent, of 35 preceptories, 23 "cameræ" of the Hospitallers,
13 preceptories formerly commandries of the Templars, 74 limbs, and 70 granges, impropriations,
&c., and, among them all, not a single one of the valuation of the New Temple itself. Reprises
of that establishment are entered, but no receipts.

The former are as follows:

    "In emendationem et sustentationem ecclesie Novi Templi, London,
    et in vino, cera, et oleo, et ornamentis ejusdem ... x m.

    "In uno fratri [sic] Capellano et octo Capellanis secularibus,
    deservientibus ecclesiam quondam Templariorum apud London,
    vocatam Novum Templum, prout ordinatum est per totum consilium
    totius regni, pro animabus fundatorum dicti Novi Templi et alia
    [sic] possessionum alibi ... lv m.

    "Videlicet, frati Capellano, pro se et ecclesia, xv m., et
    cuilibet Capellano, v m., ubi solebant esse, tempore
    Templariorum, unus Prior ecclesie et xij Capellani seculares. &c. &c.{124}

enumerating pensions to the judges, clerks, &c., in all the courts, to the amount of above
60l. per annum. To

    "Magnatibus, secretariis, et familiaribus domini Regis et
    aliorum;"

the pensions enumerated amount to about 440l. per annum.

Then, to the treasurer, barons, clerks, &c., of the Exchequer (140 persons):

    "Bis in anno, videlicet, tempore yemali, pilliola furrata
    pellura minuti varii et bogeti, et quedam non furrata; et
    tempore estivali totidem pilliola lineata de sindone, et quedam
    non lineata, unicuique de Curia Scaccarii predicti, tam
    minoribus quam majoribus, secundum gradus, statum, et officium
    personarum predictarum, que expense se extendunt annuatim ad ...
    x ii."

    "Item sunt alie expense facte in Curiis Regis annuatim pro
    officio generalis procuratoris in diversis Curiis Regis, que de
    necessitate fieri oportet, pro brevibus Regis, et Cartis
    impetendis, et aliis, negociis in eisdem Curiis expediendis, que
    ad minus ascendunt per annum, prout evidencius apparet, per
    compotum et memoranda dicti fratris de Scaccario qui per
    capitulum ad illud officium oneratur ... lx m."

    "Item in donis dandis in Curiis domini Regis et aliorum magnatum
    pro favore habendo et pro placitis defendendis, et expensis
    parlialmentorum, ad minus bis per annum ... cc m."

I have made these extracts somewhat more at length than may, perhaps, be to the point in question,
because they contain much that is highly interesting as to the apparently questionable mode
in which the Hospitallers obtained the protection of the courts (and probably they were not
singular in their proceedings); annual pensions to judges, besides other largesses, and much
of this "pro favore habendo," contrasts painfully with the "spotless purity of the ermine"
which dignifies our present age.

In the "extent" we have occasionally a grange held rent free for life by a judge. Chief Justice
Geffrey de Scrop so held that of Penhull in Northumberland.

Putting all these facts together, and bearing in mind that, throughout this elaborate "extent,"
there are neither profits nor rent entered, as for the Temple itself, so that it seems to have
then been neither in the possession nor occupation of the Hospitallers, is it not possible
that they had alienated it to the lawyers, as a discharge for these heavy annual incumbrances,--prospectively,
perhaps, because by the entry of these charges among the "reprise," the life interests, at
all events, were still paid; or perhaps the alienation was itself made to them "pro favore
habendo" in some transaction that the Hospitallers wished to have carried by the Courts; or
it may have been made as a bonâ fide bribe for future protection. At all events, when we see
such extensive payments made annually to the lawyers, their ultimate possession of the fee
simple is no unnatural result. But, as I am altogether ignorant of the history of the New Temple,
I must refrain from suggestions, giving the simple facts as I find them, and leaving the rest
to the learning and investigation of your correspondent.

L.B.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

STRANGERS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

(Vol. ii., pp. 17. The practice was at variance with the old sessional order: it is consistent
with the new standing order of 1845. It did not keep them out certainly, for they were admitted
in the teeth of it; but so long as that sessional order was in force, prohibition to strangers
was the theory.

Mr. Ross refers to publication of speeches. Publication is still prohibited in theory. Mr.
Ross perhaps is not aware that the prohibition of publication of speeches rests on a foundation
independent of the old sessional order against the presence of strangers,--on a series of resolutions
declaring publication to be a breach of the privileges of Parliament, to be found in the Journals
of 1642, 1694, 1695, 1697, 1703, 1722, and 1724. If this be so, I suppose the Speaker sees
nothing disorderly in a complaint, that what has been spoken in Parliament has not been published:
but I read frequently in my newspaper that the Speaker interrupts {125} members who speak of
speeches having been published. "This is one of the inconsistencies," Mr. Ross proceeds, "resulting
from the determination of the House not expressly to recognise the presence of strangers."
Inconsistency there certainly is,--the inconsistency of making publication a breach of privilege,
and allowing it to go on daily.

As strangers may be admitted into the House to hear debates, and not allowed to publish what
they hear, so they may he admitted, subject to exclusion at certain times, or when the House
chooses. And this is the case. The House, of course, retains the power of excluding them at
any moment. They are always made to withdraw before the House goes to a division. This is a
matter of practice, founded probably on some supposed reasons of convenience. Again, on any
member desiring strangers to be excluded, the Speaker desires them to withdraw, without allowing
any discussion.

I have only to notice one other observation of Mr. Ross's, which is the following:

    "When I speak of strangers being admitted, it must not be
    supposed that this was done by order of the House.

I do not think there is anything mysterious as regards admission. I am fond of hearing the
debates, and my parliamentary friends are very kind to me. Sometimes I content myself with
an order from a member, which takes me into the hinder seats of the non-reporting strangers'
gallery; sometimes, when I know beforehand of an interesting debate, I get one of my friends
to put my name on the "Speaker's list," and I then take my seat on one of the two front rows
of the strangers' gallery; sometimes, again, I go down on the chance, while the House is sitting;
and if I am fortunate enough to find any one of any friends there, he generally brings me,
in a few moments, an order from the Sergeant-at-arms, which takes me also to the front row
of the strangers' gallery. Some benches under the strangers' gallery are reserved for peers,
ambassadors, and peers' eldest sons. The Speaker and the Sergeant-at-arms give permission generally
to foreigners, and sometimes to some other persons, to sit in these benches. I do not know
which officer of the House of Commons superintends the admission of reporters. Ladies are admitted
to the Black Hole assigned to them, by orders from the Sergeant-at-arms. I have no doubt that
the Speaker and Sergeant-at-arms are responsible to the House for everything relating to the
admission of strangers, and without taking upon myself to say what is the authority under which
Mr. Barry has acted, I have no doubt that, in building galleries for strangers in the new house,
he has done what is consistent not only with the long established practice, but, under the
new order of 1845, with the theory of the House of Commons.

As regards the passage quoted by Mr. Jackson from the Edinburgh Review, the reviewer would
probably allow that he had overlooked the new standing order of 1845; and Mr. Jackson will
perceive that the recognition of the presence of strangers does not legalise the publication
of speeches. The supposed difficulty in the way of legalising publication is, that the House
of Commons would then make itself morally responsible for the publication of any libellous
matter in speeches. I do not see the force of this difficulty. But the expediency of the existing
rule is not a proper subject for discussion in your columns.

CH.

Whatever the present practice of the House of Commons with respect to strangers may be, it
does not seem probable that it will soon undergo alteration. In the session of 1849 a Select
Committee, composed of fifteen members, and including the leading men of all parties, was appointed
"to consider the present practice of this House in respect of the exclusion of strangers."
The following is the Report of the Committee in extenso (Parl. Pap., No. 498. Sess. 1849):

    "That the existing usage of excluding strangers during a
    division, and upon the notice by an individual Member that
    strangers are present, has prevailed from a very early period of
    parliamentary history; that the instances in which the power of
    an individual Member to exclude has been exercised have been
    very rare: and that it is the unanimous opinion of your
    committee, that there is no sufficient ground for making any
    alteration in the existing practice with regard to the admission
    or exclusion of strangers."

This Report confirms the statement of Mr. Ross (p. 83., antè), that within his experience of
thirty-one years no change has been made in the present rule of the House upon this matter,
which, it would seem, dates very far back. The Speaker was the only witness examined before
the Committee, and his evidence is not printed.

Arun.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Morganatic Marriage (Vol. ii., p. 72.).--According to M., Ducange has connected this expression
with morgingab; but I have looked in vain for such connection in my edition of the Glossary
(Paris, 1733). The truth most probably is, that morganatic, in the phrase "matrimonium ad morganaticam,"
{126} was akin to the Gothic maurgjan, signifying, "to procrastinate," "to bring to an end,"
"to shorten," "to limit." This application of the word would naturally rise out of the restrictions
imposed upon the wife and children of a morganatic marriage.

C.H.

Umbrellas (Vol. i., p. 415. 436.; ii. 25.).--In Swift's description of a city shower (Tatler,
No. 238., October 17.

H.B.C.

U.U. Club, July 2.

Bands (Vol. ii., pp. 23. 76.)--Scarf.--I was glad to read Arun's explanation of the origin
of the bands now worn by the clergy; which, however, seems merely to amount to their being
an adoption of a Genevan portion of clerical costume. That they are the descendants of the
ruff, there can be no doubt, just as wrist-bands have more recently succeeded to ruffles.

I cannot resist mentioning that an ingenious friend suggested to me, that the broad, stiff,
laid-down collar, alluded to in the former part of Arun's communication, possibly gave rise
to the modern band in the following manner:--When the scarf, still in use, was drawn over the
shoulders and hung down in front, that part of the broad collar which was left visible, being
divided up the middle, presented a shape and appearance exactly like our common bands. Hence,
it was imagined, this small separate article of dress might have originated.

Is it Butler, Swift, or who, that says,

  "A Chrysostom to smoothe his band in"?

Whenever this was written, it must have referred to our modern bands.

Who amongst the clergy are entitled to wear a scarf? Is it the badge of a chaplain only? or
what circumstances justify its being worn?

Alfred Gatty.

July 1. 1850.

Bands (Vol. ii., p. 76.).--An early example of the collar, approaching to the form of our modern
bands, may be seen in the portrait of Cardinal Beatoun, who was assassinated in 1546. The original
is in Holyrood Palace, and an engraving in Mr. Lodge's Portraits. The artist is unknown, but
from the age of the face one may infer that it was painted about 1540.

C.H.

Jewish Music (Vol. ii., p. 88.).--See a host of authorities on the subject of Hebrew music
and musical instruments in Winer's Realwörterbuch vol. ii., pp. 120. seq., 3d edit. There is
a good abstract respecting them in Jahn's Hebrew Antiquities, sect. 92-96.

C.H.

North Sides of Churchyards unconsecrated (Vol. ii., p. 55.).--In illustration of, not in answer
to, Mr. Sansom's inquiry, I beg to offer the following statement. During a long series of years
an average of about 150 corpses has been annually deposited in Ecclesfield churchyard, which
has rendered it an extremely crowded cemetery. But, notwithstanding these frequent interments,
my late sexton told me that he remembered when there was scarcely one grave to the north of
the church, it being popularly considered that only suicides, unbaptised persons, and still-born
children ought to be buried there. However, when a vicar died about twenty-seven years ago,
unlike his predecessors, who had generally been buried in the chancel, he was laid in a tomb
on the north side of the churchyard, adjoining the vicarage. From this time forward the situation
lost all its evil reputation amongst the richer inhabitants of the parish, who have almost
entirely occupied it with family vaults.

Whether the prejudice against the north side of our churchyard arose from an idea that it was
unconsecrated, I cannot tell but I suspect that, from inherited dislike, the poor are still
indisposed towards it. When the women of the village have to come to the vicarage after nightfall,
they generally manage to bring a companion, and hurry past the gloomy end of the north transept
as if they knew

  "that close behind
  Some frightful fiend did tread."

I cannot help fancying that the objection is attributable to a notion that evil spirits haunt
the spot in which, possibly from very early times, such interments took place as my sexton
described. As a suggestion towards a full solution of this popular superstition, I would ask
whether persons who formerly underwent ecclesiastical excommunication were customarily buried
on the north side of churchyards?

Alfred Gatty.

Ecclesfield, June 28. 1850.

I can only give from recollection a statement of a tradition, that when Jesus Christ died he
turned his head towards the south; and so, ever since, the south side of a church has the pre-eminence.
There generally is the bishop's throne, and the south aisle of ancient basilicas was appropriated
to men. Simple observation shows that the supposed sanctity extends to the churchyard,--for
there the tombstones lie thickest.

I find that my source of information for the {127} tradition was Cockerell's last lecture on
Architecture, Athenæum for 1843, p. 187. col. 3.

A.J.H.

"Men are but Children," &c.--R.G. (Vol. ii., p. 22.) will find the line about which he inquires
in Dryden's All for Love; or, The World well Lost, Act iv. Sc. 1.

J.R.M.

King's College, London, July 12. 1850.

Ventriloquism (Vol. ii., p. 88.).--Mr. SANSOM will find some curious information touching the
words [Hebrew: 'or], [Greek: eggastrimuthos], &c., in Dr. Maitland's recent Illustrations and
Enquiries relating to Mesmerism, pp. 55. 81. The Lexicons of Drs. Lee and Gesenius may also
be consulted, under the word [Hebrew: 'or]. The former of these lexicographers would rank the
Pythian priestess with "our modern conjurers."

C.H.

St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.

Cromwell's Estates--Magor (Vol. i., p. 277. 389.).--As the South Wales line is now open as
far as Chepstow, it may not be uninteresting to V. to know, that it diverges from the coast
between Chepstow and Newport, in order to pass Bishopston and Magor, the last of which he rightly
placed in Monmouthshire.

SELEUCUS.

Vincent Gookin (Vol. i., pp. 385. 473. 492.; Vol. ii. p. 44.) is described in a Narrative of
the late Parliament (Cromwell's Parliament, d. 1656), in the Harleian Miscellany, as

    "One of the letters of land in Ireland, receiving three hundred
    pounds per annum."

He and three other Irish members, Colonel Jephson, Ralph King, and Bice, are classed together
in this tract, which is hostile to Cromwell, as

