Page ii]

[Page iii] THE VOYAGES OF CAPTAIN SCOTT

Retold from 'The Voyage of the "Discovery"' and 'Scott's Last Expedition'

BY CHARLES TURLEY

Author of 'Godfrey Marten, Schoolboy,' 'A Band of Brothers,' etc.

With an introduction by

SIR J. M. BARRIE, BART.

Numerous illustrations in colour and black and white and a map

[Page v] CONTENTS

  INTRODUCTION

  THE VOYAGE OF THE 'DISCOVERY'

  Chapter
       I. The 'Discovery'.
      II. Southward Ho!
     III. In Search of Winter Quarters.
      IV. The Polar Winter.
       V. The Start of the Southern Journey.
      VI. The Return.
     VII. A Second Winter.
    VIII. The Western Journey.
      IX. The Return from the West.
       X. Release.

  THE LAST EXPEDITION

  Chapter
          Preface to 'Scott's Last Expedition'.
          Biographical Note.
          British Antarctic Expedition, 1910.
[Page vi]
       I. Through Stormy Seas.
      II. Depôt Laying to One Ton Camp.
     III. Perils.
      IV. A Happy Family.
       V. Winter.
      VI. Good-bye to Cape Evans.
     VII. The Southern Journey Begins.
    VIII. On the Beardmore Glacier.
      IX. The South Pole.
       X. On the Homeward Journey.
      XI. The Last March.
          Search Party Discovers the Tent.
          In Memoriam.
          Farewell Letters.
          Message to the Public.
          Index.

[Page vii] ILLUSTRATIONS

  PHOTOGRAVURE PLATE

    Portrait of Captain Robert F. Scott
      From a photograph by J. Russell & Son, Southsea.

    Sledding.
    Mount Erebus.
    Lunar Corona.
    'Birdie' Bowers reading the thermometer on the ramp.

  DOUBLE PAGE PLATE

    Panorama at Cape Evans.
    Berg in South Bay.

  FULL PAGE PLATES

    Robert F. Scott at the age of thirteen as a naval cadet.
    The 'Discovery'.
    Looking up the gateway from Pony Depôt.
    Pinnacled ice at mouth of Ferrar Glacier.
    Pressure ridges north side of Discovery Bluff.
    The 'Terra Nova' leaving the Antarctic.
    Pony Camp on the barrier.
    Snowed-up tent after three days' blizzard.
    Pitching the double tent on the summit.
[Page viii]
    Adélie Penguin on nest.
    Emperor Penguins on sea-ice.
    Dog party starting from Hut Point.
    Dog lines.
    Looking up the gateway from Pony Depôt.
    Looking south from Lower Glacier depôt,
    Man hauling camp, 87th parallel.
    The party at the South Pole.
    'The Last Rest'.

    Facsimile of the last words of Captain Scott's Journal.

    Track chart of main southern journey.

[Page 1] INTRODUCTION

BY SIR J. M. BARRIE, BART.

On the night of my original meeting with Scott he was but lately home from his first adventure
into the Antarctic and my chief recollection of the occasion is that having found the entrancing
man I was unable to leave him. In vain he escorted me through the streets of London to my home,
for when he had said good-night I then escorted him to his, and so it went on I know not for
how long through the small hours. Our talk was largely a comparison of the life of action (which
he pooh-poohed) with the loathsome life of those who sit at home (which I scorned); but I also
remember that he assured me he was of Scots extraction. As the subject never seems to have
been resumed between us, I afterwards wondered whether I had drawn this from him with a promise
that, if his reply was satisfactory, I would let him go to bed. However, the family traditions
(they are nothing more) do bring him from across the border. According to them his great-great-grandfather
was the Scott of Brownhead whose estates were sequestered after the '45. His dwelling was razed
to the ground and he fled with his wife, to whom after some grim privations a son was born
in a fisherman's hut on September 14, 1745. This son eventually settled in Devon, where he
prospered, [Page 2] for it was in the beautiful house of Oatlands that he died. He had four
sons, all in the Royal Navy, of whom the eldest had as youngest child John Edward Scott, father
of the Captain Scott who was born at Oatlands on June 6, 1868. About the same date, or perhaps
a little earlier, it was decided that the boy should go into the Navy like so many of his for-bears.

I have been asked to write a few pages about those early days of Scott at Oatlands, so that
the boys who read this book may have some slight acquaintance with the boy who became Captain
Scott; and they may be relieved to learn (as it holds out some chance for themselves) that
the man who did so many heroic things does not make his first appearance as a hero. He enters
history aged six, blue-eyed, long-haired, inexpressibly slight and in velveteen, being held
out at arm's length by a servant and dripping horribly, like a half-drowned kitten. This is
the earliest recollection of him of a sister, who was too young to join in a children's party
on that fatal day. But Con, as he was always called, had intimated to her that from a window
she would be able to see him taking a noble lead in the festivities in the garden, and she
looked; and that is what she saw. He had been showing his guests how superbly he could jump
the leat, and had fallen into it.

Leat is a Devonshire term for a running stream, and a branch of the leat ran through the Oatlands
garden while there was another branch, more venturesome, at the bottom of the fields. These
were the waters first ploughed by Scott, and he invented many ways of being in them accidentally,
it being forbidden [Page 3] to enter them of intent. Thus he taught his sisters and brother
a new version of the oldest probably of all pastimes, the game of 'Touch.' You had to touch
'across the leat,' and, with a little good fortune, one of you went in. Once you were wet,
it did not so much matter though you got wetter.

An easy way of getting to the leat at the foot of the fields was to walk there, but by the
time he was eight Scott scorned the easy ways. He invented parents who sternly forbade all
approach to this dangerous waterway; he turned them into enemies of his country and of himself
(he was now an admiral), and led parties of gallant tars to the stream by ways hitherto unthought
of. At foot of the avenue was an oak tree which hung over the road, and thus by dropping from
this tree you got into open country. The tree was (at this time) of an enormous size, with
sufficient room to conceal a navy, and the navy consisted mainly of the sisters and the young
brother. All had to be ready at any moment to leap from the tree and join issue with the enemy
on the leat. In the fields there was also a mighty ocean, called by dull grown-ups 'the pond,'
and here Scott's battleship lay moored. It seems for some time to have been an English vessel,
but by and by he was impelled, as all boys are, to blow something up, and he could think of
nothing more splendid for his purpose than the battleship. Thus did it become promptly a ship
of the enemy doing serious damage to the trade of those parts, and the valiant Con took to
walking about with lips pursed, brows frowning as he cogitated how to remove the [Page 4] Terror
of Devon. You may picture the sisters and brother trotting by his side and looking anxiously
into his set face. At last he decided to blow the accursed thing up with gunpowder. His crew
cheered, and then waited to be sent to the local shop for a pennyworth of gunpowder. But Con
made his own gunpowder, none of the faithful were ever told how, and on a great day the train
was laid. Con applied the match and ordered all to stand back. A deafening explosion was expected,
but a mere puff of flame was all that came; the Terror of Devon, which to the unimaginative
was only a painted plank, still rode the waters. With many boys this would be the end of the
story, but not with Con. He again retired to the making of gunpowder, and did not desist from
his endeavors until he had blown that plank sky-high.

His first knife is a great event in the life of a boy: it is probably the first memory of many
of them, and they are nearly always given it on condition that they keep it shut. So it was
with Con, and a few minutes after he had sworn that he would not open it he was begging for
permission to use it on a tempting sapling. 'Very well,' his father said grimly, 'but remember,
if you hurt yourself, don't expect any sympathy from me.' The knife was opened, and to cut
himself rather badly proved as easy as falling into the leat. The father, however, had not
noticed, and the boy put his bleeding hand into his pocket and walked on unconcernedly. He
was really considerably damaged; and this is a good story of a child of seven who all his life
suffered extreme nausea from [Page 5] the sight of blood; even in the Discovery days, to get
accustomed to 'seeing red,' he had to force himself to watch Dr. Wilson skinning his specimens.

When he was about eight Con passed out of the hands of a governess, and became a school-boy,
first at a day school in Stoke Damerel and later at Stubbington House, Fareham. He rode grandly
between Oatlands and Stoke Damerel on his pony, Beppo, which bucked in vain when he was on
it, but had an ingratiating way of depositing other riders on the road. From what one knows
of him later this is a characteristic story. One day he dismounted to look over a gate at a
view which impressed him (not very boyish this), and when he recovered from a brown study there
was no Beppo to be seen. He walked the seven miles home, but what was characteristic was that
he called at police-stations on the way to give practical details of his loss and a description
of the pony. Few children would have thought of this, but Scott was naturally a strange mixture
of the dreamy and the practical, and never more practical than immediately after he had been
dreamy. He forgot place and time altogether when thus abstracted. I remember the first time
he dined with me, when a number of well-known men had come to meet him, he arrived some two
hours late. He had dressed to come out, then fallen into one of his reveries, forgotten all
about the engagement, dined by himself and gone early to bed. Just as he was falling asleep
he remembered where he should be, arose hastily and joined us as speedily as possible. It was
equally characteristic of him to say [Page 6] of the other guests that it was pleasant to a
sailor to meet so many interesting people. When I said that to them the sailor was by far the
most interesting person in the room he shouted with mirth. It always amused Scott to find that
anyone thought him a person of importance.

I suppose everyone takes for granted that in his childhood, as later when he made his great
marches, Scott was muscular and strongly built. This was so far from being the case that there
were many anxious consultations over him, and the local doctor said he could not become a sailor
as he could never hope to obtain the necessary number of inches round the chest. He was delicate
and inclined to be pigeon-breasted. Judging from the portrait of him here printed, in his first
uniform as a naval cadet, all this had gone by the time he was thirteen, but unfortunately
there are no letters of this period extant and thus little can be said of his years on the
Britannia where 'you never felt hot in your bunk because you could always twist, and sleep
with your feet out at port hole.' He became a cadet captain, a post none can reach who is not
thought well of by the other boys as well as by their instructors, but none of them foresaw
that he was likely to become anybody in particular. He was still 'Old Mooney,' as his father
had dubbed him, owing to his dreamy mind; it was an effort to him to work hard, he cast a wistful
eye on 'slackers,' he was not a good loser, he was untidy to the point of slovenliness, and
he had a fierce temper. All this I think has been proved to me up to the [Page 7] hilt, and
as I am very sure that the boy of fifteen or so cannot be very different from the man he grows
into it leaves me puzzled. The Scott I knew, or thought I knew, was physically as hard as nails
and flung himself into work or play with a vehemence I cannot remember ever to have seen equaled.
I have fished with him, played cricket and football with him, and other games, those of his
own invention being of a particularly arduous kind, for they always had a moment when the other
players were privileged to fling a hard ball at your undefended head. 'Slackness,' was the
last quality you would think of when you saw him bearing down on you with that ball, and it
was the last he asked of you if you were bearing down on him. He was equally strenuous of work;
indeed I have no clearer recollection of him than his way of running from play to work or work
to play, so that there should be the least possible time between. It is the 'time between'
that is the 'slacker's' kingdom, and Scott lived less in it than anyone I can recall. Again,
I found him the best of losers, with a shout of delight for every good stroke by an opponent:
what is called an ideal sportsman. He was very neat and correct in his dress, quite a model
for the youth who come after him, but that we take as a matter of course; it is 'good form'
in the Navy. His temper I should have said was bullet-proof. I have never seen him begin to
lose it for a second of time, and I have seen him in circumstances where the loss of it would
have been excusable.

However, 'the boy makes the man,' and Scott was [Page 8] none of those things I saw in him
but something better. The faults of his youth must have lived on in him as in all of us, but
he got to know they were there and he took an iron grip of them and never let go his hold.
It was this self-control more than anything else that made the man of him of whom we have all
become so proud. I get many proofs of this in correspondence dealing with his manhood days
which are not strictly within the sphere of this introductory note. The horror of slackness
was turned into a very passion for keeping himself 'fit.' Thus we find him at one time taking
charge of a dog, a 'Big Dane,' so that he could race it all the way between work and home,
a distance of three miles. Even when he was getting the Discovery ready and doing daily the
work of several men, he might have been seen running through the streets of London from Savile
Row or the Admiralty to his home, not because there was no time for other method of progression,
but because he must be fit, fit, fit. No more 'Old Mooney' for him; he kept an eye for ever
on that gentleman, and became doggedly the most practical of men. And practical in the cheeriest
of ways. In 1894 a disastrous change came over the fortunes of the family, the father's money
being lost and then Scott was practical indeed. A letter he wrote I at this time to his mother,
tenderly taking everything and everybody on his shoulders, must be one of the best letters
ever written by a son, and I hope it may be some day published. His mother was the great person
of his early life, more to him even than his brother [Page 9] or his father, whom circumstances
had deprived of the glory of following the sailor's profession and whose ambitions were all
bound up in this son, determined that Con should do the big things he had not done himself.
For the rest of his life Con became the head of the family, devoting his time and his means
to them, not in an it-must-be-done manner, but with joy and even gaiety. He never seems to
have shown a gayer front than when the troubles fell, and at a farm to which they retired for
a time he became famous as a provider of concerts. Not only must there be no 'Old Mooney' in
him, but it must be driven out of everyone. His concerts, in which he took a leading part,
became celebrated in the district, deputations called to beg for another, and once in these
words, 'Wull 'ee gie we a concert over our way when the comic young gentleman be here along?'

Some servants having had to go at this period, Scott conceived the idea that he must even help
domestically in the house, and took his own bedroom under his charge with results that were
satisfactory to the casual eye, though not to the eyes of his sisters. It was about this time
that he slew the demon of untidiness so far as his own dress was concerned and doggedly became
a model for still younger officers. Not that his dress was fine. While there were others to
help he would not spend his small means on himself, and he would arrive home in frayed garments
that he had grown out of and in very tarnished lace. But neat as a pin. In the days when he
returned from [Page 10] his first voyage in the Antarctic and all England was talking of him,
one of his most novel adventures was at last to go to a first-class tailor and be provided
with a first-class suit. He was as elated by the possession of this as a child. When going
about the country lecturing in those days he traveled third class, though he was sometimes
met at the station by mayors and corporations and red carpets.

The hot tempers of his youth must still have lain hidden, but by now the control was complete.
Even in the naval cadet days of which unfortunately there is so little to tell, his old friends
who remember the tempers remember also the sunny smile that dissipated them. When I knew him
the sunny smile was there frequently, and was indeed his greatest personal adornment, but the
tempers never reached the surface. He had become master of his fate and captain of his soul.

In 1886 Scott became a middy on the Boadicea, and later on various ships, one of them the Rover,
of which Admiral Fisher was at that time commander. The Admiral has a recollection of a little
black pig having been found under his bunk one night. He cannot swear that Scott was the leading
culprit, but Scott was certainly one of several who had to finish the night on deck as a punishment.
In 1888 Scott passed his examinations for sub-lieutenant, with four first-class honours and
one second, and so left his boyhood behind. I cannot refrain however from adding as a conclusion
to these notes a letter from Sir Courtauld [Page 11] Thomson that gives a very attractive glimpse
of him in this same year:

'In the late winter a quarter of a century ago I had to find my way from San Francisco to Alaska.
The railway was snowed up and the only transport available at the moment was an ill-found tramp
steamer. My fellow passengers were mostly Californians hurrying off to a new mining camp and,
with the crew, looked a very unpleasant lot of ruffians. Three singularly unprepossessing Frisco
toughs joined me in my cabin, which was none too large for a single person. I was then told
that yet another had somehow to be wedged in. While I was wondering if he could be a more ill-favored
or dirtier specimen of humanity than the others the last comer suddenly appeared--the jolliest
and breeziest English naval Second Lieutenant. It was Con Scott. I had never seen him before,
but we at once became friends and remained so till the end. He was going up to join his ship
which, I think, was the Amphion, at Esquimault, B. C.

'As soon as we got outside the Golden Gates we ran into a full gale which lasted all the way
to Victoria, B. C. The ship was so overcrowded that a large number of women and children were
allowed to sleep on the floor of the only saloon there was on condition that they got up early,
so that the rest of the passengers could come in for breakfast and the other meals.

'I need scarcely say that owing to the heavy weather hardly a woman was able to get up, and
the [Page 12] saloon was soon in an indescribable condition. Practically no attempt was made
to serve meals and the few so-called stewards were themselves mostly out of action from drink
or sea-sickness.

'Nearly all the male passengers who were able to be about spent their time drinking and quarrelling.
The deck cargo and some of our top hamper were washed away and the cabins got their share of
the waves that were washing the deck.

'Then it was I first knew that Con Scott was no ordinary human being. Though at that time still
only a boy he practically took command of the passengers and was at once accepted by them as
their Boss during the rest of the trip. With a small body of volunteers he led an attack on
the saloon--dressed the mothers, washed the children, fed the babies, swabbed down the floors
and nursed the sick, and performed every imaginable service for all hands. On deck he settled
the quarrels and established order either by his personality, or, if necessary, by his fists.
Practically by day and night he worked for the common good, never sparing himself, and with
his infectious smile gradually made us all feel the whole thing was jolly good fun.

'I daresay there are still some of the passengers like myself who, after a quarter of a century,
have imprinted on their minds the vision of this fair-haired English sailor boy with the laughing
blue eyes who at that early age knew how to sacrifice himself for the welfare and happiness
of others.'

[Page 13] THE VOYAGE OF THE 'DISCOVERY'

[Page 15] CHAPTER I

THE DISCOVERY

  Do ye, by star-eyed Science led, explore
  Each lonely ocean, each untrodden shore.

In June, 1899, Robert Falcon Scott was spending his short leave in London, and happened to
meet Sir Clements Markham in the Buckingham Palace Road. On that afternoon he heard for the
first time of a prospective Antarctic expedition, and on the following day he called upon Sir
Clements and volunteered to command it. Of this eventful visit Sir Clements wrote: 'On June
5, 1899, there was a remarkable coincidence. Scott was then torpedo lieutenant of the Majestic.
I was just sitting down to write to my old friend Captain Egerton[1] about him, when he was
announced. He came to volunteer to command the expedition. I believed him to be the best man
for so great a trust, either in the navy or out of it. Captain Egerton's reply and Scott's
testimonials and certificates most fully confirmed a foregone conclusion.'

[Footnote 1: Now Admiral Sir George Egerton, K.C.B.]

The tale, however, of the friendship between Sir [Page 16] Clements and Scott began in 1887,
when the former was the guest of his cousin, the Commodore of the Training Squadron, and made
the acquaintance of every midshipman in the four ships that comprised it. During the years
that followed, it is enough to say that Scott more than justified the hopes of those who had
marked him down as a midshipman of exceptional promise. Through those years Sir Clements had
been both friendly and observant, until by a happy stroke of fortune the time came when he
was as anxious for this Antarctic expedition to be led by Scott as Scott was to lead it. So
when, on June 30, 1900, Scott was promoted to the rank of Commander, and shortly afterwards
was free to undertake the work that was waiting for him, one great anxiety was removed from
the shoulders of the man who had not only proposed the expedition, but had also resolved that
nothing should prevent it from going.

Great difficulties and troubles had, however, to be encountered before the Discovery could
start upon her voyage. First and foremost was the question of money, but owing to indefatigable
efforts the financial horizon grew clearer in the early months of 1899. Later on in the same
year Mr. Balfour expressed his sympathy with the objects of the undertaking, and it was entirely
due to him that the Government eventually agreed to contribute £45,000, provided that a similar
sum could be raised by private subscriptions.

In March, 1900, the keel of the new vessel, that the [Page 17] special Ship Committee had decided
to build for the expedition, was laid in the yard of the Dundee Shipbuilding Company. A definite
beginning, at any rate, had been made; but very soon after Scott had taken up his duties he
found that unless he could obtain some control over the various committees and subcommittees
of the expedition, the only day to fix for the sailing of the ship was Doomsday. A visit to
Norway, where he received many practical suggestions from Dr. Nansen, was followed by a journey
to Berlin, and there he discovered that the German expedition, which was to sail from Europe
at the same time as his own, was already in an advanced state of preparation. Considerably
alarmed, he hurried back to England and found, as he had expected, that all the arrangements,
which were in full swing in Germany, were almost at a standstill in England. The construction
of the ship was the only work that was progressing, and even in this there were many interruptions
from the want of some one to give immediate decisions on points of detail.

A remedy for this state of chaos had to be discovered, and on November 4, 1900, the Joint Committee
of the Royal Society and the Royal Geographical Society passed a resolution, which left Scott
practically with a free hand to push on the work in every department, under a given estimate
of expenditure in each. To safeguard the interests of the two Societies the resolution provided
that this expenditure should be supervised by a Finance Committee, [Page 18] and to this Committee
unqualified gratitude was due. Difficulties were still to crop up, and as there were many scientific
interests to be served, differences of opinion on points of detail naturally arose, but as
far as the Finance Committee was concerned, it is mere justice to record that no sooner was
it formed than its members began to work ungrudgingly to promote the success of the undertaking.

In the meantime Scott's first task was to collect, as far as possible, the various members
of the expedition. Before he had left the Majestic he had written, 'I cannot gather what is
the intention as regards the crew; is it hoped to be able to embody them from the R.N.? I sincerely
trust so.' In fact he had set his heart on obtaining a naval crew, partly because he thought
that their sense of discipline would be invaluable, but also because he doubted his ability
to deal with any other class of men.

The Admiralty, however, was reluctant to grant a concession that Scott considered so necessary,
and this reluctance arose not from any coldness towards the enterprise, but from questions
of principle and precedent. At first the Admiralty assistance in this respect was limited to
two officers, Scott himself and Royds, then the limit was extended to include Skelton the engineer,
a carpenter and a boatswain, and thus at least a small naval nucleus was obtained. But it was
not until the spring of 1901 that the Admiralty, thanks to Sir Anthony Hoskins and Sir Archibald
Douglas, gave in altogether, and as the selection of [Page 19] the most fitting volunteers
had not yet been made, the chosen men did not join until the expedition was almost on the point
of sailing.

For many reasons Scott was obliged to make his own headquarters in London, and the room that
had been placed at his disposal in Burlington House soon became a museum of curiosities. Sledges,
ski, fur clothing and boots were crowded into every corner, while tables and shelves were littered
with correspondence and samples of tinned foods. And in the midst of this medley he worked
steadily on, sometimes elated by the hope that all was going well, sometimes depressed by the
thought that the expedition could not possibly be ready to start at the required date.

During these busy months of preparation he had the satisfaction of knowing that the first lieutenant,
the chief engineer and the carpenter were in Dundee, and able to look into the numerous small
difficulties that arose in connection with the building of the ship. Other important posts
in the expedition had also been filled up, and expeditionary work was being carried on in many
places. Some men were working on their especial subjects in the British Museum, others were
preparing themselves at the Physical Laboratory at Kew, and others, again, were traveling in
various directions both at home and abroad. Of all these affairs the central office was obliged
to take notice, and so for its occupants idle moments were few and very far between. Nansen
said once that the hardest work [Page 20] of a Polar voyage came in its preparation, and during
the years 1900-1, Scott found ample cause to agree with him. But in spite of conflicting interests,
which at times threatened to wreck the well-being of the expedition, work, having been properly
organized, went steadily forward; until on March 21, 1901, the new vessel was launched at Dundee
and named the 'Discovery' by Lady Markham.

In the choice of a name it was generally agreed that the best plan was to revive some time-honoured
title, and that few names were more distinguished than 'Discovery.' She was the sixth of that
name, and inherited a long record of honourable and fortunate service.

The Discovery had been nothing more than a skeleton when it was decided that she should be
loaded with her freight in London; consequently, after she had undergone her trials, she was
brought round from Dundee, and on June 3, 1901, was berthed in the East India Docks. There,
during the following weeks, all the stores were gathered together, and there the vessel, which
was destined to be the home of the expedition for more than three years, was laden.

Speaking at the Geographical Congress at Berlin in 1899, Nansen strongly recommended a vessel
of the Fram type with fuller lines for South Polar work, but the special Ship Committee, appointed
to consider the question of a vessel for this expedition, had very sound reasons for not following
his advice. Nansen's [Page 21] celebrated Fram was built for the specific object of remaining
safely in the North Polar pack, in spite of the terrible pressures which were to be expected
in such a vast extent of ice. This object was achieved in the simplest manner by inclining
the sides of the vessel until her shape resembled a saucer, and lateral pressure merely tended
to raise her above the surface. Simple as this design was, it fulfilled so well the requirements
of the situation that its conception was without doubt a stroke of genius. What, however, has
been generally forgotten is that the safety of the Fram was secured at the expense of her sea-worthiness
and powers of ice-penetration.

Since the Fram was built there have been two distinct types of Polar vessels, the one founded
on the idea of passive security in the ice, the other the old English whaler type designed
to sail the high seas and push her way through the looser ice-packs. And a brief consideration
of southern conditions will show which of these types is more serviceable for Antarctic exploration,
because it is obvious that the exploring ship must first of all be prepared to navigate the
most stormy seas in the world, and then be ready to force her way through the ice-floes to
the mysteries beyond.

By the general consent of those who witnessed her performances, the old Discovery (the fifth
of her name) of 1875 was the best ship that had ever been employed on Arctic service, and the
Ship Committee eventually decided that the new vessel should be built on more [Page 22] or
less the same lines. The new Discovery had the honour to be the first vessel ever built for
scientific exploration, and the decision to adopt well-tried English lines for her was more
than justified by her excellent qualities.

The greatest strength lay in her bows, and when ice-floes had to be rammed the knowledge that
the keel at the fore-end of the ship gradually grew thicker, until it rose in the enormous
mass of solid wood which constituted the stem, was most comforting. No single tree could provide
the wood for such a stem, but the several trees used were cunningly scarfed to provide the
equivalent of a solid block. In further preparation for the battle with ice-floes, the stem
itself and the bow for three or four feet on either side were protected with numerous steel
plates, so that when the ship returned to civilization not a scratch remained to show the hard
knocks received by the bow.

The shape of the stem was also a very important consideration. In the outline drawing of the
Discovery will be seen how largely the stem overhangs, and this was carried to a greater extent
than in any former Polar vessel. The object with which this was fitted was often fulfilled
during the voyage. Many a time on charging a large ice-floe the stem of the ship glided upwards
until the bows were raised two or three feet, then the weight of the ship acting downwards
would crack the floe beneath, the bow would drop, and gradually the ship would forge ahead
to tussle against the [Page 23] next obstruction. Nothing but a wooden structure has the elasticity
and strength to thrust its way without injury through the thick Polar ice.

In Dundee the building of the Discovery aroused the keenest interest, and the peculiar shape
of her overhanging stern, an entirely new feature in this class of vessel, gave rise to the
strongest criticism. All sorts of misfortunes were predicted, but events proved that this overhanging
rounded form of stem was infinitely superior for ice-work to the old form of stem, because
it gave better protection to the rudder, rudder post and screw, and was more satisfactory in
heavy seas.

Both in the building and in the subsequent work of the Discovery the deck-house, marked on
the drawing 'Magnetic Observatory,' was an important place. For the best of reasons it was
important that the magnetic observations taken on the expedition should be as accurate as possible,
and it will be readily understood that magnetic observations cannot be taken in a place closely
surrounded by iron. The ardor of the magnetic experts on the Ship Committee had led them at
first to ask that there should be neither iron nor steel in the vessel, but after it had been
pointed out that this could scarcely be, a compromise was arrived at and it was agreed that
no magnetic materials should be employed within thirty feet of the observatory. This decision
caused immense trouble and expense, but in the end it was justified, for the magnetic observations
taken on board throughout the voyage [Page 25] required very little correction. And if the
demands of the magnetic experts were a little exacting, some amusement was also derived from
them. At one time those who lived within the circle were threatened with the necessity of shaving
with brass razors; and when the ship was on her way home from New Zealand a parrot fell into
dire disgrace, not because it was too talkative, but because it had been hanging on the mess-deck
during a whole set of observations, and the wires of its cage were made of iron.

The Discovery was, in Scott's opinion, the finest vessel ever built for exploring purposes,
and he was as enthusiastic about his officers and men as he was about the ship herself.

The senior of the ten officers who messed with Scott in the small wardroom of the Discovery
was Lieutenant A. B. Armitage, R.N.R. He brought with him not only an excellent practical seamanship
training in sailing ships, but also valuable Polar experience; for the P. and O. Company, in
which he held a position, had in 1894 granted him leave of absence to join the Jackson-Harmsworth
Expedition to Franz-Josef Land.

Reginald Koettlitz, the senior doctor, had also seen Arctic service in the Jackson-Harmsworth
Expedition. As his medical duties were expected to be light, he combined them with those of
official botanist.

The task of Thomas V. Hodgson, biologist, was to collect by hook or crook all the strange beasts
[Page 26] that inhabit the Polar seas, and no greater enthusiast for his work could have been
chosen.

Charles W. R. Royds was the first lieutenant, and had all to do with the work of the men and
the internal economy of the ship in the way that is customary with a first lieutenant of a
man-of-war. Throughout the voyage he acted as meteorologist, and in face of great difficulties
he secured the most valuable records.

Michael Barne, the second naval lieutenant, had served with Scott in the Majestic. 'I had thought
him,' Scott wrote after the expedition had returned, 'as he proved to be, especially fitted
for a voyage where there were many elements of dangers and difficulty.'

The original idea in appointing two doctors to the Discovery was that one of them should be
available for a detached landing-party. This idea was practically abandoned, but the expedition
had reason to be thankful that it ever existed, for the second doctor appointed was Edward
A. Wilson. In view of the glorious friendship which arose between them, and which in the end
was destined to make history, it is of inestimable value to be able to quote what is believed
to be Scott's first written opinion of Wilson. In a letter headed 'At sea, Sept. 27,' he said:
'I now come to the man who will do great things some day--Wilson. He has quite the keenest
intellect on board and a marvelous capacity for work. You know his artistic talent, but would
be surprised at [Page 27] the speed at which he paints, and the indefatigable manner in which
he is always at it. He has fallen at once into ship-life, helps with any job that may be in
hand... in fact is an excellent fellow all round.

Wilson, in addition to his medical duties, was also vertebrate zoologist and artist to the
expedition. In the first capacity he dealt scientifically with the birds and seals, and in
the second he produced a very large number of excellent pictures and sketches of the wild scenes
among which he was living.

One of Scott's earliest acts on behalf of the expedition was to apply for the services of Reginald
W. Skelton as chief engineer. At the time Skelton was senior engineer of the Majestic, and
his appointment to the Discovery was most fortunate in every way. From first to last there
was no serious difficulty with the machinery or with anything connected with it.

The geologist, Hartley T. Ferrar, only joined the expedition a short time before the Discovery
sailed, and the physicist, Louis Bernacchi, did not join until the ship reached New Zealand.

In addition there were two officers who did not serve throughout the whole term. Owing to ill-health
Ernest H. Shackleton was obliged to return from the Antarctic in 1903, and his place was taken
by George F. A. Mulock, who was a sub-lieutenant in the Navy when he joined.

Apart from Koettlitz, who was forty, and Hodgson, [Page 28] who was thirty-seven, the average
age of the remaining members of the wardroom mess was just over twenty-four years, and at that
time Scott had little doubt as to the value of youth for Polar service. Bower is a wonder of
course. He is 29. When past the forties it is encouraging to remember that Peary was 52!'

The fact that these officers lived in complete harmony for three years was proof enough that
they were well and wisely chosen, and Scott was equally happy in his selection of warrant officers,
petty officers and men, who brought with them the sense of naval discipline that is very necessary
for such conditions as exist in Polar service. The Discovery, it must be remembered, was not
in Government employment, and so had no more stringent regulations to enforce discipline than
those contained in the Merchant Shipping Act. But everyone on board lived exactly as though
the ship was under the Naval Discipline Act; and as the men must have known that this state
of affairs was a fiction, they deserved as much credit as the officers, if not more, for continuing
rigorously to observe it.

[Page 29] Something remains to be said about the Discovery's prospective course, and of the
instructions given to Captain Scott.

For purposes of reference Sir Clements Markham had suggested that the Antarctic area should
be divided into four quadrants, to be named respectively the Victoria, the Ross, the Weddell,
and the Enderby, and when he also proposed that the Ross quadrant should be the one chosen
for this expedition, his proposal was received with such unanimous approval that long before
the Discovery was built her prospective course had been finally decided. In fact every branch
of science saw a greater chance of success in the Ross quadrant than in any other region. Concerning
instructions on such a voyage as the Discovery's it may be thought that, when once the direction
is settled, the fewer there are the better. Provided, however, that they leave the greatest
possible freedom to the commander, they may be very useful in giving him a general view of
the situation, and in stating the order in which the various objects are held. If scientific
interests clash, it is clearly to the commander's advantage to know in what light these interests
are regarded by those responsible for the enterprise. Of such a nature were the instructions
Scott received before sailing for the South.

During the time of preparation many busy men gave most valuable assistance to the expedition;
but even with all this kindly aid it is doubtful if the Discovery would ever have started had
it not been [Page 30] that among these helpers was one who, from the first, had given his whole
and undivided attention to the work in hand. After all is said and done Sir Clements Markham
conceived the idea of this Antarctic Expedition, and it was his masterful personality which
swept aside all obstacles and obstructions.

[Page 31] CHAPTER II

SOUTHWARD HO!

  They saw the cables loosened, they saw the gangways cleared,
  They heard the women weeping, they heard the men who cheered.
  Far off-far off the tumult faded and died away.
  And all alone the sea wind came singing up the Bay.
  --NEWBOLT.

On July 31, 1901, the Discovery left the London Docks, and slowly wended her way down the Thames;
and at Cowes, on August 5, she was honoured by a visit from King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra.
This visit must be ever memorable for the interest their Majesties showed in the minutest details
of equipment; but at the same time it was natural for the members of the expedition to be obsessed
by the fear that they might start with a flourish of trumpets and return with failure. The
grim possibilities of the voyage were also not to be forgotten--a voyage to the Antarctic,
the very map of which had remained practically unaltered from 1843-93.

With no previous Polar experience to help him, Scott was following on the track of great Polar
explorers, notably of James Cook and James Ross, of whom it has been well said that the one
defined the Antarctic region and the other discovered it. Can it be wondered therefore that
his great anxieties were [Page 32] to be off and doing, to justify the existence of the expedition
at the earliest possible moment, and to obey the instructions which had been given him?

Before the Discovery had crossed the Bay of Biscay it was evident that she did not possess
a turn of speed under any conditions, and that there must be none but absolutely necessary
delays on the voyage, if she was to arrive in the Antarctic in time to take full advantage
of the southern summer of 1901-2 for the first exploration in the ice. This proved a serious
drawback, as it had been confidently expected that there would be ample time to make trial
of various devices for sounding and dredging in the deep sea, while still in a temperate climate.
The fact that no trials could be made on the outward voyage was severely felt when the Antarctic
was reached.

On October 2 the Discovery arrived within 150 miles of the Cape, and on the 5th was moored
off the naval station at Simon's Bay. The main object of staying at the Cape was to obtain
comparisons with the magnetic instruments, but Scott wrote: 'It is much to be deplored that
no permanent Magnetic Station now exists at the Cape. The fact increased the number and difficulty
of our own observations, and it was quite impossible to spare the time for such repetitions
and verifications as, under the circumstances, could alone have placed them beyond dispute.'
Armitage and Barne, however, worked like Trojans in taking observations, and received so much
valuable assistance 'that they were able to accomplish a maximum [Page 33] amount of work in
the limited time at their disposal.' In every way, indeed, the kindliest sympathy was shown
at the Cape.

The magnetic work was completed on October 12, and two days later the Discovery once more put
out to sea; and as time went on those on board became more and more satisfied with her seaworthy
qualities. Towards the end of October there was a succession of heavy following gales, but
she rose like a cork to the mountainous seas that followed in her wake, and, considering her
size, she was wonderfully free of water on the upper deck. With a heavy following sea, however,
she was, owing to her buoyancy, extremely lively, and rolls of more than 40º were often recorded.
The peculiar shape of the stern, to which reference has been made, was now well tested. It
gave additional buoyancy to the after-end, causing the ship to rise more quickly to the seas,
but the same lifting effect was also directed to throwing the ship off her course, and consequently
she was difficult to steer. The helmsmen gradually became more expert, but on one occasion
when Scott and some other officers were on the bridge the ship swerved round, and was immediately
swept by a monstrous sea which made a clean breach over her. Instinctively those on the bridge
clutched the rails, and for several moments they were completely submerged while the spray
dashed as high as the upper topsails.

On November 12 the Discovery was in lat. 51 S., long. 131 E., and had arrived in such an extremely
[Page 34] interesting magnetic area that they steered to the south to explore it. This new
course took them far out of the track of ships and towards the regions of ice, and they had
scarcely arrived in those lonely waters when Scott was aroused from sleep by a loud knocking
and a voice shouting, 'Ship's afire, sir.' Without waiting to give any details of this alarming
news the informant fled, and when Scott appeared hastily on the scenes he found that the deck
was very dark and obstructed by numerous half-clad people, all of whom were as ignorant as
he was. Making his way forward he discovered that the fire had been under the forecastle, and
had been easily extinguished when the hose was brought to bear on it. In these days steel ships
and electric light tend to lessen the fear of fire, but in a wooden vessel the possible consequences
are too serious not to make the danger very real and alarming. Henceforth the risk of fire
was constantly in Scott's thoughts, but this was the first and last occasion on which an alarm
was raised in the Discovery.

On November 15 the 60th parallel was passed, and during the following morning small pieces
of sea-ice, worn into fantastic shape by the action of the waves, appeared and were greeted
with much excitement and enthusiasm. As the afternoon advanced signs of a heavier pack were
seen ahead, and soon the loose floes were all about the ship, and she was pushing her way amongst
them and receiving her baptism of ice.

[Page 35] This was Scott's first experience of pack-ice, and he has recorded how deeply he
was impressed by the novelty of his surroundings. 'The wind had died away; what light remained
was reflected in a ghostly glimmer from the white surface of the pack; now and again a white
snow petrel flitted through the gloom, the grinding of the floes against the ship's side was
mingled with the more subdued hush of their rise and fall on the long swell, and for the first
time we felt something of the solemnity of these great Southern solitudes.'

The Discovery was now within 200 miles of Adélie Land, and with steam could easily have pushed
on towards it. But delays had already been excessive, and they could not be added to if New
Zealand was to be reached betimes. Reluctantly the ship's head was again turned towards the
North, and soon passed into looser ice.

One great feature of the tempestuous seas of these southern oceans is the quantity and variety
of their bird life. Not only are these roaming, tireless birds to be seen in the distance,
but in the majority of cases they are attracted by a ship and for hours gather close about
her. The greater number are of the petrel tribe, and vary in size from the greater albatrosses,
with their huge spread of wing and unwavering flight, to the small Wilson stormy petrel, which
flits under the foaming crests of the waves. For centuries these birds have been the friends
of sailors, and as Wilson was able to distinguish and [Page 36] name the various visitors to
the Discovery, the interest of the voyage was very greatly increased.

'At 11 A.M. on the 22nd,' Scott wrote in his official report of the Proceedings of the expedition,
'we sighted Macquarie Island, exactly at the time and in the direction expected, a satisfactory
fact after so long an absence from land. As the island promised so much of interest to our
naturalists I thought a delay of the few hours necessary for landing would be amply justified....
A landing was effected without much difficulty, and two penguin rookeries which had been observed
from the ship were explored with much interest. One proved to be inhabited by the beautifully
marked King penguin, while the other contained a smaller gold-crested broad-billed species....
At 8 P.M. the party returned to the ship, and shortly after we weighed anchor and proceeded.
Including those collected in the ice, we had no fewer than 50 birds of various sorts to be
skinned, and during the next few days several officers and men were busily engaged in this
work under the superintendence of Dr. Wilson. The opportunity was taken of serving out the
flesh of the penguins for food. I had anticipated considerable prejudice on the part of the
men to this form of diet which it will so often be essential to enforce, and was agreeably
surprised to find that they were by no means averse to it. Many pronounced it excellent, and
all seemed to appreciate the necessity of cultivating a taste for it. I found no prejudice
more difficult to conquer than my own.'

[Page 37] Perhaps the most excited member of the party over this visit to Macquarie Island
was Scott's Aberdeen terrier 'Scamp,' who was most comically divided between a desire to run
away from the penguins, and a feeling that in such strange company it behooved him to be very
courageous. This, however, was Scamp's first and last experience of penguins, for it was felt
that he would be unable to live in the Antarctic, and so a comfortable home was found for him
in New Zealand.

Late on November 29 the Discovery arrived off Lyttelton Heads, and on the following day she
was berthed alongside a jetty in the harbor. For both the private and the public kindness which
was shown to the expedition in New Zealand, no expressions of gratitude can be too warm. On
every possible occasion, and in every possible way, efficient and kindly assistance was given,
and this was all the more valuable because a lot of work had to be done before the ship could
sail from Lyttelton. The rigging had to be thoroughly overhauled and refitted; the magneticians
had to undertake the comparison of their delicate instruments, and as this was the last occasion
on which it could be done special attention was necessary; and a large quantity of stores had
to be shipped, because some of those in the Discovery had been damaged by the leaky state of
the ship. This leak had never been dangerous, but all the same it had entailed many weary hours
of pumping, and had caused much waste of time and of provisions. Among the many skilled [Page
38] workmen, whose united labour had produced the solid structure of the Discovery's hull,
had been one who had shirked his task, and although the ship was docked and most determined
and persistent efforts were made to find the leak, it succeeded in avoiding detection.

As the month of December advanced the scene on the ship was a very busy one, but at last the
day for sailing from Lyttelton arrived, though not for the final departure from civilization,
because a short visit was to be paid to Port Chalmers in the south to complete the stock of
coal. On Saturday, December 21, the ship lay alongside the wharf ready for sea and very deeply
laden. 'One could reflect that it would have been impossible to have got more into her, and
that all we had got seemed necessary for the voyage, for the rest we could only trust that
Providence would vouch-safe to us fine weather and an easy passage to the south.'

New Zealand, to the last, was bent on showing its enthusiasm for the expedition. Two men-of-war
steamed slowly out ahead of the Discovery, while no fewer than five steamers, crowded with
passengers, and with bands playing and whistles hooting, also accompanied her, until the open
sea was reached and the Discovery slowly steamed out between the war-ships that seemed to stand
as sentinels to the bay. And then, before the cheers of thousands of friends were hardly out
of the ears of those on board, a tragedy happened. Among the ship's company who had crowded
into the rigging to wave their farewells was one young seaman, named Charles Bonner, who, [Page
39] more venturesome than the rest, had climbed above the crow's-nest to the top of the main-mast.
There, seated on the truck, he had remained cheering, until in a moment of madness he raised
himself into a standing position, and almost directly afterwards he fell and was instantaneously
killed. On the Monday the ship arrived at Port Chalmers, and Bonner was buried with naval honours.

By noon on the following day the Discovery was clear of the harbor bar, and was soon bowling
along under steam and sail towards the south. The last view of civilization, the last sight
of fields and flowers had come and gone on Christmas Eve, 1901, and Christmas Day found the
ship in the open expanse of the Southern Ocean, though after such a recent parting from so
many kind friends no one felt inclined for the customary festivities.

In good sea trim the Discovery had little to fear from the worst gales, but at this time she
was so heavily laden that had she encountered heavy seas the consequences must have been very
unpleasant. Inevitably much of her large deck cargo must have been lost; the masses of wood
on the superstructure would have been in great danger, while all the sheep and possibly many
of the dogs would have been drowned. Fine weather, however, continued, and on January 3 Scott
and his companions crossed the Antarctic Circle, little thinking how long a time would elapse
before they would recross it. At length they had entered the Antarctic regions; before them
lay [Page 40] the scene of their work, and all the trials of preparation, and the anxiety of
delays, were forgotten in the fact that they had reached their goal in time to make use of
the best part of the short open season in these icebound regions.

Soon the pack was on all sides of them, but as yet so loose that there were many large pools
of open water. And then for several days the ship had really to fight her way, and Scott gave
high praise to the way she behaved: 'The "Discovery" is a perfect gem in the pack. Her size
and weight behind such a stem seem to give quite the best combination possible for such a purpose.
We have certainly tried her thoroughly, for the pack which we have come through couldn't have
been looked at by Ross even with a gale of wind behind him.'

Necessarily progress became slow, but life abounds in the pack, and the birds that came to
visit the ship were a source of perpetual interest. The pleasantest and most constant of these
visitors was the small snow petrel, with its dainty snow-white plumage relieved only by black
beak and feet, and black, beady eye. These little birds abound in the pack-ice, but the blue-grey
southern fulmar and the Antarctic petrel were also to be seen, and that unwholesome scavenger,
the giant petrel, frequently lumbered by; while the skua gull, most pugnacious of bullies,
occasionally flapped past, on his way to make some less formidable bird disgorge his hard-earned
dinner.

The squeak of the penguin was constantly heard, at [Page 41] first afar and often long before
the birds were seen. Curiosity drew them to the ship, and as she forced her way onward these
little visitors would again and again leap into the water, and journey from floe to floe in
their eagerness to discover what this strange apparition could be. Some of the sailors became
very expert in imitating their calls, and could not only attract them from a long distance,
but would visibly add to their astonishment when they approached. These were busy days for
the penguins.

In all parts of the pack seals are plentiful and spend long hours asleep on the floes. The
commonest kind is the crab-eater or white seal, but the Ross seal is not rare, and there and
there is found the sea-leopard, ranging wide and preying on the penguins and even on the young
of its less powerful brethren. It is curious to observe that both seals and penguins regard
themselves as safe when out of the water. In the sea they are running risks all the time, and
in that element Nature has made them swift to prey or to avoid being preyed upon. But once
on ice or land they have known no enemy, and cannot therefore conceive one. The seal merely
raises its head when anyone approaches, and then with but little fear; whereas it is often
difficult to drive the penguin into the water, for he is firmly convinced that the sea is the
sole source of danger. Several seals were killed for food, and from the first seal-meat was
found palatable, if not altogether the form of diet to recommend to an epicure. The great drawback
to the seal is that there is no fat except blubber, [Page 42] and blubber has a very strong
taste and most penetrating smell. At this time blubber was an abomination to everyone both
in taste and smell, and if the smallest scrap happened to have been cooked with the meat, dinner
was a wasted meal. Later on, however, this smell lost most of its terrors, while seal-steaks
and seal-liver and kidneys were treated almost as luxuries.

On the morning of January 8 a strong water sky could be seen, and soon afterwards the officer
of the watch hailed from aloft the glad tidings of an open sea to the south. Presently the
ship entered a belt where the ice lay in comparatively small pieces, and after pushing her
way through this for over a mile, she reached the hard line where the ice abruptly ended, and
to the south nothing but a clear sky could be seen. At 10.30 P.M. on the same evening the joy
of being again in the open sea was intensified by a shout of 'Land in sight,' and all who were
not on deck quickly gathered there to take their first look at the Antarctic Continent. The
sun, near the southern horizon, still shone in a cloudless sky, and far away to the south-west
the blue outline of the high mountain peaks of Victoria Land could be seen. The course was
now directed for Robertson Bay, and after some difficulty, owing to the reappearance of loose
streams of pack-ice, the ship was eventually steered into the open water within the bay.

Robertson Bay is formed by the long peninsula of Cape Adare, within which, standing but slightly
above the level of the sea, is a curious triangular [Page 43] spit, probably the morainic remains
of the vaster ice conditions of former ages. It was on this spit that the expedition sent forth
by Sir George Newnes and commanded by Borchgrevink spent their winter in 1896, the first party
to winter on the shores of the Antarctic Continent. Here Scott decided to land for a short
time, and very soon Armitage, Bernacchi and Barne were at work among the thousands of penguins
that abounded, while the naturalists wandered further afield in search of specimens. In the
center of Cape Adare beach the hut used by the members of Borchgrevink's party was still found
to be standing in very good condition, though at the best of times deserted dwellings are far
from cheerful to contemplate. Bernacchi had been a member of this small party of eight, and
on the spot he recalled the past, and told of the unhappy death of Hanson--one of his comrades.

Later on Bernacchi and some others landed again to visit Hanson's grave, and to see that all
was well with it. They took a tin cylinder containing the latest report of the voyage with
them, and were told to place it in some conspicuous part of the hut. In the following year
this cylinder was found by the Morning,[1] and so the first information was given that the
Discovery had succeeded in reaching these southern regions.

[Footnote 1: The relief ship.]

On January 10, when the weather was still calm and bright, the ship again stood out to sea,
and was steered close around Cape Adare in the hope of finding [Page 44] a clear channel near
at hand. Very soon, however, the tidal stream began to make from the south, and the whole aspect
of the streams of heavy pack-ice rapidly changed. Almost immediately the pack was about the
ship, and she was being rapidly borne along with it. Across the entrance to the bay was a chain
of grounded icebergs, and it was in this direction that she was being carried. For the first
time they faced the dangers of the pack, and realized its mighty powers. Little or nothing
could be done, for the floes around them were heavier than anything they had yet encountered.
Twist and turn as they would no appreciable advance could be made, and in front of one colossal
floe the ship was brought to a standstill for nearly half an hour. But they still battled on;
Armitage remained aloft, working the ship with admirable patience; the engine-room, as usual,
answered nobly to the call for more steam, and the Discovery exerted all her powers in the
struggle; but, in spite of these efforts, progress was so slow that it looked almost certain
that she would be carried down among the bergs. 'It was one of those hours,' Scott says, 'which
impress themselves for ever on the memory. Above us the sun shone in a cloudless sky, its rays
were reflected from a myriad points of tire glistening pack; behind us lay the lofty snow-clad
mountains, the brown sun-kissed cliffs of the Cape, and the placid glassy waters of the bay;
the air about us was almost breathlessly still; crisp, clear and sun-lit, it seemed an atmosphere
in which all Nature should rejoice; [Page 45] the silence was broken only by the deep panting
of our engines and the slow, measured hush of the grinding floes; yet, beneath all, ran this
mighty, relentless tide, bearing us on to possible destruction. It seemed desperately unreal
that danger could exist in the midst of so fair a scene, and as one paced to and fro on the
few feet of throbbing plank that constituted our bridge, it was difficult to persuade oneself
that we were so completely impotent.'

With the exception of Scott himself only those who were actually on watch were on deck during
this precarious time, for the hour was early, and the majority were asleep in their bunks below,
happily oblivious of the possible dangers before them. And the fact that they were not aroused
is a proof that a fuss was rarely made in the Discovery, if it could by any conceivable means
be avoided.

At last, however, release came from this grave danger, and it came so gradually that it was
difficult to say when it happened. Little by little the tidal stream slackened, the close-locked
floes fell slightly apart, and under her full head of steam the ship began to forge ahead towards
the open sea and safety. 'For me,' Scott adds, 'the lesson had been a sharp and, I have no
doubt, a salutary one; we were here to fight the elements with their icy weapons, and once
and for all this taught me not to undervalue the enemy.' During the forenoon the ship was within
seven or eight miles of the high bold coast-line to the south of Cape Adare, but later she
had to be turned outwards [Page 46] so that the heavy stream of pack-ice drifting along the
land could be avoided. By the morning of the 11th she was well clear of the land, but the various
peaks and headlands which Sir James Ross had named could be distinctly seen, and gave everyone
plenty to talk and think about. Progress, however, was slow, owing to a brisk S. E. wind and
the fact that only one boiler was being used.

Of all economies practiced on board the most important was that of coal, but Scott was not
at all sure that this decision to use only one boiler was really economical. Certainly coal
was saved but time was also wasted, and against an adverse wind the Discovery could only make
fifty-five miles on the 11th, and on the 12th she scarcely made any headway at all, for the
wind had increased and a heavy swell was coming up from the south.

To gain shelter Scott decided to turn in towards the high cliffs of Coulman Island, the land
of which looked illusively near as they approached it. So strong was this deception that the
engines were eased when the ship was still nearly two miles away from the cliffs. Later on,
in their winter quarters and during their sledge journeys, they got to know how easy it was
to be deluded as regards distance, and what very false appearances distant objects could assume.
This matter is of interest, because it shows that Polar explorers must be exceedingly cautious
in believing the evidence of their own eyes, and it also explains the errors which the Discovery
expedition found to [Page 47] have been made by former explorers, and which they knew must
have been made in all good faith.

During the night of the 13th the ship lay under the shelter of Coulman Island, but by the morning
the wind had increased to such a furious gale, and the squalls swept down over the cliffs with
such terrific violence, that in spite of every effort to keep her in her station she began
to lose ground. In the afternoon the wind force was ninety miles an hour, and as they continued
to lose ground they got into a more choppy sea, which sent the spray over them in showers,
to freeze as it fell.

Again the situation was far from pleasant; to avoid one berg they were forced to go about,
and in doing so they ran foul of another. As they came down on it the bowsprit just swept clear
of its pinnacled sides, and they took the shock broad on their bows. It sent the ship reeling
round, but luckily on the right tack to avoid further complications. The following night was
dismal enough; again and again small bergs appeared through the blinding spray and drift, and
only with great difficulty could the unmanageable ship be brought to clear them. Even gales,
however, must have an end, and towards morning the wind moderated, and once more they were
able to steam up close to the island. And there, between two tongues of ice off Cape Wadworth,
they landed on the steep rocks and erected a staff bearing a tin cylinder with a further record
of the voyage. By the time this had been done the wind had fallen completely, and in [Page
48] the evening the ship entered a long inlet between Cape Jones and the barrier-ice, and later
turned out, of this into a smaller inlet in the barrier-ice itself. She was now in a very well-sheltered
spot, and night, as often happened in the Antarctic regions, was turned into day so that several
seals could be killed. 'It, seemed a terrible desecration,' Scott says, 'to come to this quiet
spot only to murder its innocent inhabitants, and stain the white snow with blood.' But there
was the best of all excuses, namely necessity, for this massacre, because there was no guarantee
that seals would be found near the spot in which the ship wintered, and undoubtedly the wisest
plan was to make sure of necessary food.

While the seal carcasses and some ice for the boilers were being obtained, Scott turned in
to get some rest before putting out to sea again, and on returning to the deck at 7.30 he was
told that the work was completed, but that some five hours before Wilson, Ferrar, Cross and
Weller had got adrift of a floe, and that no one had thought of picking them up. Although the
sun had been shining brightly all night, the temperature had been down to 18°, and afar off
Scott could see four disconsolate figures tramping about, and trying to keep themselves warm
on a detached floe not more than fifteen yards across.

When at length the wanderers scrambled over the side it was very evident that they had a grievance,
and not until they had been warmed by hot cocoa could they talk with ease of their experiences.
They [Page 49] had been obliged to keep constantly on the move, and when they thought of smoking
to relieve the monotony they found that they had pipes and tobacco, but no matches. While,
however, they were dismally bemoaning this unfortunate state of affairs Wilson, who did not
smoke, came to the rescue and succeeded in producing fire with a small pocket magnifying glass--a
performance which testified not only to Wilson's resource, but also to the power of the sun
in these latitudes.

On the 17th the ship had to stand out farther and farther from the land to clear the pack,
and when on the 18th she arrived in the entrance to Wood Bay it was also found to be heavily
packed. A way to the N. and N.W. the sharp peaks of Monteagle and Murchison, among bewildering
clusters of lesser summits, could be seen; across the bay rose the magnificent bare cliff of
Cape Sibbald, while to the S.W. the eye lingered pleasantly upon the uniform outline of Mount
Melbourne. This fine mountain rears an almost perfect volcanic cone to a height of 9,000 feet,
and with no competing height to take from its grandeur, it constitutes the most magnificent
landmark on the coast. Cape Washington, a bold, sharp headland, projects from the foot of the
mountain on its eastern side, and finding such heavy pack in Wood Bay, Scott decided to turn
to the south to pass around this cape.

From this point the voyage promised to be increasingly interesting, since the coast to the
south of Cape Washington was practically unknown. Pack-ice was [Page 50] still a formidable
obstacle, but on the 20th the Discovery pushed her way into an inlet where she met ice which
had been formed inside and but recently broken up. The ice was perfectly smooth, and as it
showed absolutely no sign of pressure there was no doubting that this inlet would make a secure
wintering harbor. Already a latitude had been reached in which it was most desirable to find
safe winter quarters for the ship. In England many people had thought that Wood Bay would be
the most southerly spot where security was likely to be found, but Scott had seen enough of
the coast-line to the south of that place to realize the impossibility of traveling along it
in sledges, and to convince him that if any advance to the south was to be made, a harbor in
some higher latitude must be found.

This inlet was afterwards named Granite Harbor, and so snug and secure a spot was it to winter
in that Scott expressed his thankfulness that he did not yield to its allurements. 'Surrounded
as we should have been by steep and lofty hills, we could have obtained only the most local
records of climatic conditions, and our meteorological observations would have been comparatively
valueless; but the greatest drawback would have been that we should be completely cut off from
traveling over the sea-ice beyond the mouth of our harbor.... It is when one remembers how
naturally a decision to return to this place might have been made, that one sees how easily
the results of the expedition might have been missed.'

[Page 51] It was, however, consoling at the time to know that, in default of a better place,
a safe spot had been found for wintering, so with Granite Harbor in reserve the ship again
took up her battle with the ice; and on the 21st she was in the middle of McMurdo Sound, and
creeping very slowly through the pack-ice, which appeared from the crow's-nest to extend indefinitely
ahead. They were now within a few miles of the spot where they ultimately took up their winter
quarters, but nearly three weeks were to pass before they returned there. 'At 8 P.M. on the
21st,' Scott says, 'we thought we knew as much of this region as our heavy expenditure of coal
in the pack-ice would justify us in finding out, and as before us lay the great unsolved problem
of the barrier and of what lay beyond it, we turned our course with the cry of Eastward ho!'

[Page 52] CHAPTER III

IN SEARCH OF WINTER QUARTERS

  Beholde I see the haven near at hand
  To which I mean my wearie course to bend;
  Vere the main sheet and bear up to the land
  To which afore is fairly to be ken'd.
  --SPENSER, Faerie Queene.

In their journey from Cape Washington to the south something had already been done to justify
the dispatch of the expedition. A coast-line which hitherto had been seen only at a great distance,
and reported so indefinitely that doubts were left with regard to its continuity, had been
resolved into a concrete chain of mountains; and the positions and forms of individual heights,
with the curious ice formations and the general line of the coast, had been observed. In short
the map of the Antarctic had already received valuable additions, and whatever was to happen
in the future that, at any rate, was all to the good.

At 8 P.M. on the 22nd the ship arrived off the bare land to the westward of Cape Crozier, where
it was proposed to erect a post and leave a cylinder containing an account of their doings,
so that the chain of records might be completed. After a landing had [Page 53] been made with
some difficulty, a spot was chosen in the center of the penguin rookery on a small cliff overlooking
the sea, and here the post was set up and anchored with numerous boulders. In spite of every
effort to mark the place, at a few hundred yards it was almost impossible to distinguish it;
but although this small post on the side of a vast mountain looked a hopeless clue, it eventually
brought the Morning into McMurdo Sound.

While Bernacchi and Barne set up their magnetic instruments and began the chilly task of taking
observations, the others set off in twos and threes to climb the hillside. Now for the first
time this extraordinary ice-formation was seen from above.... It was an impressive sight and
the very vastness of what lay at our feet seemed to add to our sense of its mystery.'

Early on the 23rd they started to steam along the [Page 54] ice-face of the barrier; and in
order that nothing should be missed it was arranged that the ship should continue to skirt
close to the ice-cliff, that the officers of the watch should repeatedly observe and record
its height, and that three times in the twenty-four hours the ship should be stopped and a
sounding taken. In this manner a comparatively accurate survey of the northern limit of the
barrier was made.

On steaming along the barrier it was found that although they were far more eager to gain new
information than to prove that old information was incorrect, a very strong case soon began
to arise against the Parry Mountains, which Ross had described as 'probably higher than we
have yet seen'; and later on it was known with absolute certainty that these mountains did
not exist. This error on the part of such a trustworthy and cautious observer, Scott ascribes
to the fact that Ross, having exaggerated the height of the barrier, was led to suppose that
anything seen over it at a distance must be of great altitude. 'But,' he adds, 'whatever the
cause, the facts show again how deceptive appearances may be and how easily errors may arise.
In fact, as I have said before, one cannot always afford to trust the evidence of one's own
eyes.' Though the ship was steaming along this ice-wall for several days, the passage was not
in the least monotonous, because new variations were continually showing themselves, and all
of them had to be carefully observed and recorded. This work continued for several days until,
on January 29, they arrived at a particularly interesting place, to [Page 55] the southward
and eastward of the extreme position reached by Ross in 1842. From that position he had reported
a strong appearance of land to the southeast, and consequently all eyes were directed over
the icy cliffs in that direction. But although the afternoon was bright and clear, nothing
from below or from aloft could be seen, and the only conclusion to be made was that the report
was based on yet another optical illusion.

But in spite of the disappointment at being unable to report that Ross's 'appearance of land'
rested on solid foundations, there was on the afternoon of the 29th an indescribable sense
of impending change. 'We all felt that the plot was thickening, and we could not fail to be
inspirited by the fact that we had not so far encountered the heavy pack-ice which Ross reported
in this region, and that consequently we were now sailing in an open sea into an unknown world.'

The course lay well to the northward of east, and the change came at 8 P.M. when suddenly the
ice-cliff turned to the east, and becoming more and more irregular continued in that direction
for about five miles, when again it turned sharply to the north. Into the deep bay thus formed
they ran, and as the ice was approached they saw at once that it was unlike anything yet seen.
The ice-foot descended to various heights of ten or twenty feet above the water, and behind
it the snow surface rose in long undulating slopes to rounded ridges, the heights of which
could only be guessed. Whatever doubt remained in their minds that this was snow-covered land,
a sounding of 100 fathoms quickly removed it.

[Page 56] But what a land! On the swelling mounds of snow above them there was not one break,
not a feature to give definition to the hazy outline. No scene could have been more perfectly
devised to produce optical illusions. And then, while there was so much to observe, a thick
fog descended, and blotted out all hope of seeing what lay beyond the ice-foot. During the
afternoon of January 30 the fog was less dense, but still no sign of bare land could be seen,
and it was not until the bell had sounded for the evening meal that two or three little black
patches, which at first were mistaken for detached cloud, appeared. 'We gazed idly enough at
them till someone remarked that he did not believe they were clouds; then all glasses were
leveled; assertions and contradictions were numerous, until the small black patches gradually
assumed more and more definite shape, and all agreed that at last we were looking at real live
rock, the actual substance of our newly discovered land.... It is curious to reflect now on
the steps which led us to the discovery of King Edward's Land, and the chain of evidence which
came to us before the actual land itself was seen: at first there had been the shallow soundings,
and the sight of gently rising snow-slopes, of which, in the nature of things, one is obliged
to retain a doubt; then the steeper broken slopes of snow, giving a contrast to convey a surer
evidence to the eye; and, finally the indubitable land itself, but even then surrounded with
such mystery as to leave us far from complete satisfaction with our discovery.'

[Page 57] The temptation to push farther and farther to the east was almost irresistible, but
with the young ice forming rapidly around them, Scott, on February 1, decided to return, and
on their way back along the barrier they experienced much lower temperatures than on the outward
journey. During the return journey they landed on the barrier, and on February 4 preparations
for a balloon ascent were made. 'The honour,' Scott says, 'of being the first aeronaut to make
an ascent in the Antarctic Regions, perhaps somewhat selfishly, I chose for myself, and I may
further confess that in so doing I was contemplating the first ascent I had made in any region,
and as I swayed about in what appeared a very inadequate basket and gazed down on the rapidly
diminishing figures below, I felt some doubt as to whether I had been wise in my choice.'

If, however, this ascent was not altogether enjoyed by the aeronaut, it, at any rate, gave
him considerable information about the barrier surface towards the south; and, to his surprise,
he discovered that instead of the continuous level plain that he had expected, it continued
in a series of long undulations running approximately east and west, or parallel to the barrier
surface. Later on, however, when the sledge-party taken out by Armitage returned, they reported
that these undulations were not gradual as had been supposed from the balloon, but that the
crest of each wave was flattened into a long plateau, from which the descent into the succeeding
valley was comparatively sharp. On the evening of the 4th they put out [Page 58] to sea again,
and on the 8th they were once more in McMurdo Sound, with high hopes that they would soon find
a sheltered nook in which the Discovery could winter safely, and from which the sledge-parties
could set forth upon the task of exploring the vast new world around them.

Without any delay they set out to examine their immediate surroundings, and found a little
bay which promised so well for the winter that Scott's determination to remain in this region
was at once strengthened. The situation, however, was surrounded with difficulties, for although
the ice had broken far afield it refused to move out of the small bay on which they had looked
with such eager eyes; consequently they were forced to cling to the outskirts of the bay with
their ice-anchors, in depths that were too great to allow the large anchors to be dropped to
the bottom. The weather also was troublesome, for after the ship had lain quietly during several
hours a sudden squall would fling her back on her securing ropes, and, uprooting the ice-anchors,
would ultimately send her adrift.

In spite, however, of the difficulty of keeping the ship in position, steady progress was made
with the work on shore, and this consisted mainly in erecting the various huts which had been
brought in pieces. The original intention had been that the Discovery should not winter in
the Antarctic, but should land a small party and turn northward before the season closed, and
for this party a large hut had been carried south. But even when it had been decided to keep
the [Page 59] ship as a home, it was obvious that a shelter on shore must be made before exploring
parties could be safely sent away; since until the ship was frozen in a heavy gale might have
driven her off her station for several days, if not altogether. In seeking winter quarters
so early in February, Scott had been firmly convinced that the season was closing in. 'With
no experience to guide us, our opinion could only be based on the very severe and unseasonable
conditions which we had met with to the east. But now to our astonishment we could see no sign
of a speedy freezing of the bay; the summer seemed to have taken a new lease, and for several
weeks the fast sea-ice continued to break silently and to pass quietly away to the north in
large floes.'

In addition to the erection of the main hut, two small huts which had been brought for the
magnetic instruments had to be put together. The parts of these were, of course, numbered,
but the wood was so badly warped that Dailey, the carpenter, had to use a lot of persuasion
before the joints would fit.

On February 14 Scott wrote in his diary: 'We have landed all the dogs, and their kennels are
ranged over the hillside below the huts.... It is surprising what a number of things have to
be done, and what an unconscionable time it takes to do them. The hut-building is slow work,
and much of our time has been taken in securing the ship.... Names have been given to the various
landmarks in our vicinity. The end of our peninsula is to be called "Cape Armitage," after
our excellent navigator. The sharp hill above it [Page 60] is to be "Observation Hill."...
Next comes the "Gap," through which we can cross the peninsula at a comparatively low level.
North of the "Gap" are "Crater Heights," and the higher volcanic peak beyond is to be "Crater
Hill"; it is 1,050 feet in height. Our protecting promontory is to be "Hut Point," with "Arrival
Bay" on the north and "Winter Quarter Bay" on the south; above "Arrival Bay" are the "Arrival
Heights," which continue with breaks for about three miles to a long snow-slope, beyond which
rises the most conspicuous landmark on our peninsula, a high, precipitous-sided rock with a
flat top, which has been dubbed "Castle Rock"; it is 1,350 feet in height.

'In spite of the persistent wind, away up the bay it is possible to get some shelter, and here
we take our ski exercise.... Skelton is by far the best of the officers, though possibly some
of the men run him close.'

On the 19th the first small reconnoitering sledge party went out, and on their return three
days later they were so excited by their experiences that some time passed before they could
answer the questions put to them. Although the temperature had not been severe they had nearly
got into serious trouble by continuing their march in a snowstorm, and when they did stop to
camp they were so exhausted that frost-bites were innumerable. The tent had been difficult
to get up, and all sorts of trouble with the novel cooking apparatus had followed. 'It is strange
now,' Scott wrote three years later, 'to look back on [Page 61] these first essays at sledding,
and to see how terribly hampered we were by want of experience.'

By February 26 the main hut was practically finished, and as a quantity of provisions and oil,
with fifteen tons of coal, had been landed, the ship could be left without anxiety, and arrangements
for the trip, which Scott hoped to lead himself, were pushed forward. The object of this journey
was to try and reach the record at Cape Crozier over the barrier, and to leave a fresh communication
there with details of the winter quarters. On the following day, however, Scott damaged his
right knee while skiing, and had to give up all idea of going to Cape Crozier. 'I already foresaw
how much there was to be learnt if we were to do good sledding work in the spring, and to miss
such an opportunity of gaining experience was terribly trying; however, there was nothing to
be done but to nurse my wounded limb and to determine that never again would I be so rash as
to run hard snow-slopes on ski.'

By March 4 the preparation of the sledge party was completed. The party consisted of four officers,
Royds, Koettlitz, Skelton and Barne, and eight men, and was divided into two teams, each pulling
a single sledge and each assisted by four dogs. But again the want of experience was badly
felt, and in every respect the lack of system was apparent. Though each requirement might have
been remembered, all were packed in a confused mass, and, to use a sailor's expression, 'everything
was on top and nothing handy.' [Page 62] Once more Scott comments upon this lack of experience:
'On looking back I am only astonished that we bought that experience so cheaply, for clearly
there were the elements of catastrophe as well as of discomfort in the disorganized condition
in which our first sledge parties left the ship.'

The days following the departure of the sledge party were exceptionally fine, but on Tuesday,
March 11, those on board the ship woke to find the wind blowing from the east; and in the afternoon
the wind increased, and the air was filled with thick driving snow. This Tuesday was destined
to be one of the blackest days spent by the expedition in the Antarctic, but no suspicion that
anything untoward had happened to the sledge party arose until, at 8.30 P.M., there was a report
that four men were walking towards the ship. Then the sense of trouble was immediate, and the
first disjointed sentences of the newcomers were enough to prove that disasters had occurred.
The men, as they emerged from their thick clothing, were seen to be Wild, Weller, Heald and
Plumley, but until Scott had called Wild, who was the most composed of the party, aside, he
could not get any idea of what had actually happened, and even Wild was too exhausted, and
excited to give anything but a meager account.

Scott, however, did manage to discover that a party of nine, In charge of Barne, had been sent
back, and early in the day had reached the crest of the hills somewhere by Castle Rock. In
addition, Wild told him, to the four who had returned, the party had [Page 63] consisted of
Barne, Quartley, Evans, Hare and Vince. They had thought that they were quite close to the
ship, and when the blizzard began they had left their tents and walked towards her supposed
position. Then they found themselves on a steep slope and tried to keep close together, but
it was impossible to see anything. Suddenly Hare had disappeared, and a few minutes after Evans
went. Barne and Quartley had left them to try to find out what had become of Evans, and neither
of them had come back, though they waited. Afterwards they had gone on, and had suddenly found
themselves at the edge of a precipice with the sea below; Vince had shot past over the edge.
Wild feared all the others must be lost; he was sure Vince had gone. Could he guide a search
party to the scene of the accident? He thought he could--at any rate he would like to try.

The information was little enough but it was something on which to act, and though the first
disastrous news had not been brought until 8.30 P.M. the relieving party had left the ship
before 9 P.M. Owing to his knee Scott could not accompany the party, and Armitage took charge
of it.

Subsequently the actual story of the original sledge party was known, and the steps that led
to the disaster could be traced. On their outward journey they had soon come to very soft snow,
and after three days of excessive labour Royds had decided that the only chance of making progress
was to use snow-shoes; but unfortunately there were only three pairs of ski [Page 64] with
the party, and Royds resolved to push on to Cape Crozier with Koettlitz and Skelton, and to
send the remainder back in charge of Barne.

The separation took place on the 9th, and on the 11th the returning party, having found an
easier route than on their way out, were abreast of Castle Rock. Scarcely, however, had they
gained the top of the ridge about half a mile south-west of Castle Rock, when a blizzard came
on and the tents were hastily pitched.

'We afterwards weathered many a gale,' Scott says, 'in our staunch little tents, whilst their
canvas sides flapped thunderously hour after hour.... But to this party the experience was
new; they expected each gust that swept down on them would bear the tents bodily away, and
meanwhile the chill air crept through their leather boots and ill-considered clothing, and
continually some frost-bitten limb had to be nursed back to life.'

At ordinary times hot tea or cocoa would have revived their spirits, but now the cooking apparatus
was out of order, and taking everything into consideration it was small wonder that they resolved
to make for the ship, which they believed to be only a mile or so distant.

'Before leaving,' Barne wrote in his report, 'I impressed on the men, as strongly as I could,
the importance of keeping together, as it was impossible to distinguish any object at a greater
distance than ten yards on account of the drifting snow.' But after they had struggled a very
short distance, Hare, who [Page 65] had been at the rear of the party, was reported to be missing,
and soon afterwards Evans 'stepped back on a patch of bare smooth ice, fell, and shot out of
sight immediately.'

Then Barne, having cautioned his men to remain where they were, sat down and deliberately started
to slide in Evans's track. In a moment the slope grew steeper, and he was going at such a pace
that all power to check himself had gone. In the mad rush he had time to wonder vaguely what
would come next, and then his flight was arrested, and he stood up to find Evans within a few
feet of him. They had scarcely exchanged greetings when the figure of Quartley came hurtling
down upon them from the gloom, for he had started on the same track, and had been swept down
in the same breathless and alarming manner. To return by the way they had come down was impossible,
and so they decided to descend, but within four paces of the spot at which they had been brought
to rest, they found that the slope ended suddenly in a steep precipice, beyond which nothing
but clouds of snow could be seen. For some time after this they sat huddled together, forlornly
hoping that the blinding drift would cease, but at last they felt that whatever happened they
must keep on the move, and groping their way to the right they realized that the sea was at
their feet, and that they had been saved from it by a patch of snow almost on the cornice of
the cliff. Presently a short break in the storm enabled them to see Castle Rock above their
heads, and slowly making their way [Page 66] up the incline, they sought the shelter of a huge
boulder; and there, crouched together, they remained for several hours.

Meanwhile the party had remained in obedience to orders at the head of the slope, and had shouted
again and again in the lulls of the whirling storm. But after waiting for a long time they
felt that something was amiss, and that it was hopeless to remain where they were. 'As usual
on such occasions,' Scott says, 'the leading spirit came to the fore, and the five who now
remained submitted themselves to the guidance of Wild, and followed him in single file as he
again struck out in the direction in which they supposed the ship to lie.' In this manner they
descended for about 500 yards, until Wild suddenly saw the precipice beneath his feet, and
far below, through the wreathing snow, the sea. He sprang back with a cry of warning, but in
an instant Vince had flashed past and disappeared.

Then, horror-stricken and dazed, they vaguely realized that at all costs they must ascend the
slope down which they had just come. All of them spoke afterwards of that ascent with horror,
and wondered how it had ever been made. They could only hold themselves by the soles of their
boots, and to slip to their knees meant inevitably to slide backwards towards the certain fate
below. Literally their lives depended on each foothold. Wild alone had a few light nails in
his boots, and to his great credit he used this advantage to give a helping hand in turn to
each [Page 67] of his companions. When, after desperate exertions, they did reach the top of
the slope their troubles were not finished, for they were still ignorant of the position of
the ship. Wild, however, again took the lead, and it was largely due to him that the party
eventually saw the ship looming through the whirl of snow. 'It is little wonder that after
such an experience they should have been, as I have mentioned, both excited and tired.'

The hours following the departure of Armitage and his search party on this fatal night were
unforgettable. Scott, hatefully conscious of his inability to help on account of his injured
leg, admits that he could not think of any further means to render assistance, but he says,
'as was always my experience in the Discovery, my companions were never wanting in resource.'
Soon the shrill screams of the siren were echoing among the hills, and in ten minutes after
the suggestion had been made, a whaler was swinging alongside ready to search the cliffs on
the chance of finding Vince.

But for Scott and those who had to wait inactively on board there was nothing to do but stand
and peer through the driving snow, and fully three hours passed before there was a hail from
without, and Ferrar appeared leading three of the lost--Barne, Evans and Quartley. An hour
later the main search party returned, having done all that men could do in such weather. A
more complete search was impossible, but it had to be admitted that the chance of seeing [Page
68] Hare or Vince again was very small. Sadly it had to be realized that two men were almost
certainly lost, but there was also no disguising the fact that a far greater tragedy might
have happened. Indeed, it seemed miraculous that any of the party were alive to tell the tale,
and had not Barne, Evans and Quartley heard the faint shrieks of the siren, and in response
to its welcome sound made one more effort to save themselves, the sledge party would in all
probability not have found them. All three of them were badly frost-bitten, and one of Barne's
hands was in such a serious condition that for many days it was thought that his fingers would
have to be amputated.

The end of this story, however, is not yet told, for on March 13 Scott wrote in his diary:
'A very extraordinary thing has happened. At 10 A.M. a figure was seen descending the hillside.
At first we thought it must be some one who had been for an early walk; but it was very soon
seen that the figure was walking weakly, and, immediately after, the men who were working in
the hut were seen streaming out towards it. In a minute or two we recognized the figure as
that of young Hare, and in less than five he was on board.... We soon discovered that though
exhausted, weak, and hungry, he was in full possession of his faculties and quite free from
frost-bites. He went placidly off to sleep whilst objecting to the inadequacy of a milk diet.'

Later on Hare, who like Vince had been wearing fur boots, explained that he had left his companions
[Page 69] to return to the sledges and get some leather boots, and had imagined that the others
understood what he intended to do. Soon after he had started back he was wandering backwards
and forwards, and knew that he was walking aimlessly to and fro. The last thing he remembered
was making for a patch of rock where he hoped to find shelter, and there he must have lain
in the snow for thirty-six hours, though he required a lot of persuasion before he could be
convinced of this. When he awoke he found himself covered with snow, but on raising himself
he recognized Crater Hill and other landmarks, and realized exactly where the ship lay. Then
he started towards her, but until his intense stiffness wore off he was obliged to travel upon
his hands and knees.

But though Hare was safe, Vince was undoubtedly gone. 'Finally and sadly we had to resign ourselves
to the loss of our shipmate, and the thought was grievous to all.... Life was a bright thing
to him, and it is something to think that death must have come quickly in the grip of that
icy sea.'

This fatal mishap naturally caused increased anxiety about the three men who had gone on, and
anxiety was not diminished when, on the 19th, Skelton was seen coming down, the hill alone.
The others, however, were close behind him, and all three of them were soon safely on board.

On the 15th Royds had been compelled to abandon the attempt to reach the record at Cape Crozier,
but he did not turn back until it was evident that a better [Page 70] equipped party with more
favorable weather would easily get to it. On comparing notes with his party, Scott recognized
what a difference there might be in the weather conditions of places within easy reach of the
ship, and not only in temperature but also in the force and direction of the wind. It had not
occurred to anyone that within such a short distance of the ship any large difference of temperature
was probable, and as the summer was barely over, Royds, Koettlitz and Skelton had only taken
a light wolf-skin fur suit for night-wear. This, however, had proved totally inadequate when
the thermometer fell to -42°, and on the night of the 16th uncontrollable paroxysms of shivering
had prevented them from getting any sleep. The value of proper clothing and the wisdom of being
prepared for the unexpected rigors of such a fickle climate, were two of the lessons learnt
from the experiences of the Cape Crozier party.

As the days of March went by Scott began really to wonder whether the sea ever intended to
freeze over satisfactorily, and at such an advanced date there were many drawbacks in this
unexpected state of affairs. Until the ship was frozen in, the security of their position was
very doubtful; economy of coal had long since necessitated the extinction of fires in the boilers,
and if a heavy gale drove the ship from her shelter, steam could only be raised with difficulty
and after the lapse of many hours. There was, too, the possibility that the ship, if once driven
off, would not be able to return, and so it was obviously unsafe [Page 71] to send a large
party away from her, because if she went adrift most of them would be needed.

Another annoying circumstance was that until they had a solid sheet of ice around them they
could neither set up the meteorological screen, nor, in short, carry out any of the routine
scientific work which was such an important object of the expedition.

At this time Scott was eager to make one more sledding effort before the winter set in. The
ostensible reason was to layout a depôt of provisions to the south in preparation for the spring,
but 'a more serious purpose was to give himself and those who had not been away already a practical
insight into the difficulties of sledge traveling. But as this party would have to include
the majority of those on board, he was forced to wait until the ship was firmly fixed, and
it may be said that the Discovery was as reluctant to freeze-in as she was difficult to get
out when once the process had been completed.

On March 28, however, Scott was able to write in his diary: 'The sea is at last frozen over,
and if this weather lasts the ice should become firm enough to withstand future gales. We have
completed the packing of our sledges, though I cannot say I am pleased with their appearance;
the packing is not neat enough, and we haven't got anything like a system.'

Three days later a party of twelve, divided into two teams, each with a string of sledges and
nine dogs, made a start. Their loads were arranged on the theory [Page 72] of 200 lbs. to each
man, and 100 lbs. to each dog, but they very quickly discovered that the dogs were not going
to have anything to do with such a theory as this. The best of them would only pull about 50
lbs., and some of the others had practically to be pulled.

Later on Scott learned that it was a bad plan to combine men and dogs on a sledge, because
the dogs have their own pace and manner of pulling, and neither of these is adapted to the
unequal movement caused by the swing of marching men. And on this occasion another reason for
the inefficiency of the dogs was that they were losing their coats, and had but little protection
against the bitterly cold wind. 'As a matter of fact, our poor dogs suffered a great deal from
their poorly clothed condition during the next week or two, and we could do little to help
them; but Nature seemed to realize the mistake, and came quickly to the rescue: the new coats
grew surprisingly fast, and before the winter had really settled down on us all the animals
were again enveloped in their normally thick woolly covering.

The refusal of the dogs to work on this trip meant that the men had to do far more than their
share, and from the first they had no chance of carrying out their intentions. Each hour, however,
was an invaluable experience, and when a return was made to the ship Scott was left with much
food for thought. 'In one way or another each journey had been a failure; we had little or
nothing to show for our labours. The errors were patent; food, clothing, everything was [Page
73] wrong, the whole system was bad. It was clear that there would have to be a thorough reorganization
before the spring, and it was well to think that before us lay a long winter in which this
might be effected.'

But in a sense even these failures were successful, for everyone resolved to profit by the
mistakes that had been made and the experience that had been gained, and the successful sledge
journeys subsequently made in the spring were largely due to the failures of the autumn.

The sun was due to depart before the end of April, and so no time could be wasted if the outside
work, which had been delayed by the tardy formation of the ice-sheet, was to be completed before
the daylight vanished.

One of the most urgent operations was to get up the meteorological screen, which had been made
under the superintendence of Royds. The whole of this rather elaborate erection was, placed
about 100 yards astern of the ship, and consequently in a direction which, with the prevalent
south-easterly winds, would be to windward of her. To obtain a complete record of meteorological
observations was one of the most important scientific objects of the expedition, and it was
decided that the instruments should be read and recorded every two hours. Consequently in calm
or storm [Page 75] some member of the community had to be on the alert, and every other hour
to make the rounds of the various instruments. On a fine night this was no great hardship,
but in stormy weather the task was not coveted by anyone. On such occasions it was necessary
to be prepared to resist the wind and snowdrift, and the round itself was often full of exasperating
annoyances. In fact the trials and tribulations of the meteorological observers were numerous,
and it was arranged that throughout the winter each officer should take it in turn to make
the night observations from 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. Wilson nobly offered always to take the 8 A.M.
observation, but the lion's share of the work fell on Royds himself, since besides taking his
share of the night work he also, throughout the first winter and a great part of the second,
took all the observations between 10 A.M. and 10 P.M.

The magnetic huts and all that appertained to them were Bernacchi's special business, and many
times daily he was to be seen journeying to and fro in attendance upon his precious charge.
The general reader may well ask why so much trouble should be taken to ascertain small differences
in the earth's magnetism, and he can scarcely be answered in a few words. Broadly speaking,
however, the earth is a magnet, and its magnetism is constantly changing. But why it is a magnet,
or indeed what magnetism may be, is unknown, and obviously the most hopeful way of finding
an explanation of a phenomenon is to study it. For many reasons the Discovery's winter station
in the [Page 76] Antarctic was an especially suitable place in which to record the phenomenon
of magnetism.

Besides establishing the routine of scientific work many preparations had to be made for the
comfort and well-being of the ship during the winter, and long before the sun had disappeared
the little company had settled down to a regular round of daily life.

Later in the year Scott wrote in his diary: 'The day's routine for the officers gives four
clear hours before tea and three after; during these hours all without exception are busily
employed except for the hour or more devoted to exercise.... It would be difficult to say who
is the most diligent, but perhaps the palm would be given to Wilson, who is always at work;
every rough sketch made since we started is reproduced in an enlarged and detailed form, until
we now possess a splendid pictorial representation of the whole coastline of Victoria Land....
At home many no doubt will remember the horrible depression of spirit that has sometimes been
pictured as a pendant to the long polar night. We cannot even claim to be martyrs in this respect;
with plenty of work the days pass placidly and cheerfully.'

Nearly seven months before Scott wrote in this cheerful spirit of the winter, he had expressed
himself warmly about those who were to spend it with him. 'I have,' he said in a letter dispatched
from Port Chalmers on the voyage out, 'the greatest admiration for the officers and men, and
feel that their allegiance to me is a thing assured. Our little society in the [Page 77] wardroom
is governed by a spirit of good fellowship and patience which is all that the heart of man
could desire; I am everlastingly glad to be one of the company and not forced to mess apart....
The absence of friction and the fine comradeship displayed throughout is beyond even my best
expectation.'

This spirit of good-fellowship and give-and-take was a remarkable feature of life during the
time spent in the Discovery, and the only man Scott had a word to say against was the cook.
'We shipped him at the last moment in New Zealand, when our trained cook became too big for
his boots, and the exchange was greatly for the worse; I am afraid he is a thorough knave,
but what is even worse, he is dirty--an unforgivable crime in a cook.'

Under such circumstances it is obvious that tempers might have been overstrained, and apart
from the sins of the cook the weather was unexpectedly troublesome. Almost without exception
the North Polar winter has been recorded as a period of quiescence, but in the Antarctic the
wind blew with monotonous persistency, and calm days were very few and far between. Nevertheless
Scott had little reason to change his original opinion about his companions, all of whom were
prepared to put up with some unavoidable discomforts, and to make the best of a long job.

During the winter a very regular weekly routine was kept up, each day having its special food
and its special tasks. The week's work ended on Friday, and Saturday was devoted to 'clean
ship,' the officers doing [Page 78] their share of the scrubbing. In the forenoon the living-spaces
were thoroughly cleaned, holes and corners were searched, and while the tub and scrubber held
sway the deck became a 'snipe marsh.' At this time the holds also were cleared up, the bilges
pumped out, the upper deck was 'squared up,' and a fresh layer of clean snow was sprinkled
over that which had been soiled by the traffic of the week. Then a free afternoon for all hands
followed, and after dinner in the wardroom the toast was the time-honoured one of 'Sweethearts
and Wives.'

On Sunday a different garment was put on, not necessarily a newer or a cleaner one, the essential
point being that it should be different from that which had been worn during the week. By 9.30
the decks had been cleared up, the tables and shelves tidied, and the first lieutenant reported
'All ready for rounds.' A humble imitation of the usual man-of-war walk-round Sunday inspection
followed, and Scott had the greatest faith in this system of routine, not only because it had
a most excellent effect on the general discipline and cleanliness of the ship, but also because
it gave an opportunity to raise and discuss each new arrangement that was made to increase
the comfort of all on board.

After this inspection of both ship and men, the mess-deck was prepared for church; harmonium,
reading-desk and chairs were all placed according to routine, and the bell was tolled. Scott
read the service, Koettlitz the lessons, and Royds played the harmonium.

[Page 79] Service over, all stood off for the day and looked forward to the feast of mutton
which was limited to Sunday. 'By using it thus sparingly the handsome gift of the New Zealand
farmers should last us till the early spring. But it is little use to think of the sad day
when it will fail; for the present I must confess that we always take an extra walk to make
quite sure of our appetites on Sunday.'

On June 23 the festival of mid-winter was celebrated, and the mess-deck was decorated with
designs in coloured papers and festooned with chains and ropes of the same materials. Among
the messes there was a great contest to have the best decorations, and some astonishing results
were achieved with little more than brightly coloured papers, a pair of scissors and a pot
of paste. On each table stood a grotesque figure or fanciful erection of ice, which was cunningly
lighted up by candles from within and sent out shafts of sparkling light. 'If,' Scott wrote
in his diary, 'the light-hearted scenes of to-day can end the first period of our captivity,
what room for doubt is there that we shall triumphantly weather the whole term with the same
general happiness and contentment?'

During the winter months the South Polar Times, edited by Shackleton, appeared regularly, and
was read with interest and amusement by everyone. At first it had been decided that each number
should contain, besides the editorial, a summary of the events and meteorological conditions
of the past month, some scientifically instructive articles dealing with the work [Page 80]
and surroundings, and others written in a lighter vein; but, as the scheme developed, it was
found that such features as caricatures and acrostics could be added. One of the pleasantest
points in connection with the Times was that the men contributed as well as the officers; in
fact some of the best, and quite the most amusing, articles were written by the occupants of
the mess-deck. But beyond all else the journal owed its excellence to Wilson, who produced
drawings that deserved--and ultimately obtained--a far wider appreciation than could be given
to them in the Antarctic. So great was the desire to contribute to the first number of the
S. P. T. that the editor's box was crammed with manuscripts by the time the date for sending
in contributions had arrived. From these there was no difficulty in making a selection, but
as there was also some danger of hurting the feelings of those whose contributions had been
rejected, a supplementary journal named The Blizzard was produced. This publication, however,
had but a brief career, for in spite of some good caricatures and a very humorous frontispiece
by Barne, it was so inferior to the S. P. T. that even its contributors realized that their
mission in life did not lie in the paths of literary composition. The Blizzard, in short, served
its purpose, and then ceased to exist.

In considering the arrangements to make the ship comfortable during the dark months, the question
of artificial light was as difficult as it was important. Paraffin had from the first been
suggested as the most [Page 81] suitable illuminant, its main disadvantage being that it is
not a desirable oil to carry in quantities in a ship. 'Our luckiest find,' Scott says, 'was
perhaps the right sort of lamp in which to burn this oil. Fortunately an old Arctic explorer,
Captain Egerton, presented me with a patent lamp in which the draught is produced by a fan
worked by clockwork mechanism, and no chimney is needed. One can imagine the great mortality
there would be in chimneys if we were obliged to employ them, so that when, on trial, this
lamp was found to give an excellent light, others of the same sort were purchased, and we now
use them exclusively in all parts of the ship with extremely satisfactory results.'

There was, however, a still brighter illuminant within their reach in the shape of acetylene,
but not until it became certain that they would have to spend a second winter in the Antarctic,
did their thoughts fly to the calcium carbide which had been provided for the hut, and which
they had not previously thought of using. 'In this manner the darkness of our second winter
was relieved by a light of such brilliancy that all could pursue their occupations by the single
burner placed in each compartment. I lay great stress on this, because I am confident that
this is in every way the best illuminant that can be taken for a Polar winter, and no future
expedition should fail to supply themselves with it.'

As has already been said, the meteorological observations had to be read and recorded every
two hours, and on July 21 Scott gave in his diary a full and [Page 82] graphic account of the
way he occupied himself during his 'night on.' 'Each of us has his own way of passing the long,
silent hours. My own custom is to devote some of it to laundry-work, and I must confess I make
a very poor fist of it. However, with a bath full of hot water, I commence pretty regularly
after the ten o'clock observation, and labour away until my back aches. There is little difficulty
with the handkerchiefs, socks and such-like articles, but when it comes to thick woolen vests
and pajamas, I feel ready to own my incapacity; one always seems to be soaping and rubbing
at the same place, and one is forced to wonder at the area of stuff which it takes to cover
a comparatively small body. My work is never finished by midnight, but I generally pretend
that it is, and after taking the observations for that hour, return to wring everything out.
I am astonished to find that even this is no light task; as one wrings out one end the water
seems to fly to the other; then I hang some heavy garment on a hook and wring until I can wring
no more; but even so, after it has been hung for a few minutes on the wardroom clothes-line,
it will begin to drip merrily on the floor, and I have to tackle it afresh. I shall always
have a high respect for laundry-work in future, but I do not think it can often have to cope
with such thick garments as we wear.

'Washing over, one can devote oneself to pleasanter occupations. The night-watchman is always
allowed a box of sardines, which are scarce enough to be a great luxury, and is provided with
tea or cocoa and a spirit-lamp. [Page 83] Everyone has his own ideas as to how sardines should
be prepared... and I scarcely like to record that there is a small company of gourmets, who
actually wake one another up in order that the night-watchman may present his fellow epicures
with a small finger of buttered toast, on which are poised two sardines "done to a turn." The
awakened sleeper devours the dainty morsel, grunts his satisfaction, and goes placidly off
into dreamland again.

'I find that after my labours at the wash-tub and the pleasing supper that follows, I can safely
stretch myself out in a chair without fear of being overcome by sleep, and so, with the ever-soothing
pipe and one's latest demand on the library book-shelves, one settles down in great peace and
contentment whilst keeping an eye on the flying hours, ready to sally forth into the outer
darkness at the appointed time.

'The pleasure or pain of that periodic journey is of course entirely dependent on the weather.
On a fine night it may be quite a pleasure, but when, as is more common, the wind is sweeping
past the ship, the observer is often subjected to exasperating difficulties, and to conditions
when his conscience must be at variance with his inclination.

'Sometimes the lantern will go out at the screen, and he is forced to return on board to light
it; sometimes it will refuse to shine on the thin threads of mercury of the thermometer until
it is obvious that his proximity has affected the reading, and he is forced to stand off until
it has again fallen to the air temperature.... [Page 84] These and many other difficulties
in taking observations which may be in themselves valueless are met in the right spirit. But
then another gale brought more snow, and was so especially generous with it in the neighborhood
of the boats, that they were afterwards found to be buried three or four feet beneath the surface.
With no feelings of anxiety, but rather to provide occupation, Scott ordered the snow on the
top of them to be removed, and not until the first boat had been reached was the true state
of affairs revealed.

Nothing more could be done at that time to recover the boats, because as fast as the sodden
ice could be dug out, more sea-water would have come in and frozen. But to try and prevent
bad going to worse before the summer brought hope with it, parties were [Page 85] engaged day
after day in digging away at the snow covering, and in the course of months many tons must
have been removed. The danger was that fresh gales bringing more snow might have sunk the boats
so far below the surface that they could never be recovered, and after each gale the diggers
were naturally despondent, as to all appearances they had to begin all over again. The prospect,
however, of having to leave the Antarctic without a single boat in the ship, and also the feeling
that so much labour must tell in the end, spurred on the diggers to renewed vigour, but it
was not until December that the boats were finally liberated.

Early in August another gale with blinding drift was responsible for an experience to Bernacchi
and Skelton that once again emphasized the bewildering effect of a blizzard. They were in the
smaller compartment of the main hut completing a set of pendulum observations, while Royds
was in the larger compartment--the hut was used for many and various purposes--rehearsing his
nigger minstrel troupe. Either because nigger minstrelsy and scientific work did not go hand
in hand, or because their work was finished, Bernacchi and Skelton, soon after the rehearsal
began, left the hut to return to the ship. Fully an hour and a half afterwards Royds and his
troupe, numbering more than a dozen, started back, and found that the gale had increased and
that the whirling snow prevented them from seeing anything. Being, however, in such numbers,
they were able to join hands and sweep along until they caught the guide-rope leading to the
gangway; [Page 86] and then as they traveled along it they heard feeble shouts, and again extending
their line suddenly fell upon Bernacchi and Skelton, who, having entirely lost their bearings,
had been reduced to shouting on the chance of being heard and rescued.

The hut was scarcely 200 yards from the ship, and the latter was not only a comparatively big
object but was surrounded by guide-ropes and other means of direction, which if encountered
would have informed the wanderers of their position. Additionally Bernacchi and Skelton could
be trusted to take the most practical course in any difficulty, and so it seems the more incredible
that they could actually have been lost for two hours. Both of them were severely frostbitten
about the face and legs, but bitter as their experience was it served as yet another warning
to those who were to go sledding in the spring that no risks could be taken in such a capricious
climate. Had not Royds been rehearsing his troupe on this occasion the results to Bernacchi
and Skelton must have been more disastrous than they were; consequently the idea of using the
large hut as a place of entertainment was fortunate in more ways than one.

During the first week of May a concert had been given in the hut, but this was more or less
in the nature of an experiment; for Royds, who took infinite pains over these entertainments,
had arranged a long program with the object of bringing to light any possible talent. The result
of this was that even the uncritical had to confess that most of the performers would have
[Page 87] been less out of place among the audience. So much dramatic ability, however, was
shown that Barne was entrusted with the work of producing a play, which, after many rehearsals
conducted with due secrecy, was produced on June 25.

This play was entitled 'The Ticket of Leave,' 'a screaming comedy in one act,' and was produced
with unqualified success. 'I for one,' Scott says, 'have to acknowledge that I have rarely
been so gorgeously entertained.'

Later on Royds began to organize his nigger minstrel troupe, and when the doors of the Royal
Terror Theatre opened at 7.30 on August 6, the temperature outside them was -40°, while inside
it was well below zero. Under these conditions it is small wonder that the audience was glad
when the curtain went up.

'There is no doubt,' Scott says in reference to this performance, 'that sailors dearly love
to make up; on this occasion they had taken an infinity of trouble to prepare themselves....
"Bones" and "Skins" had even gone so far as to provide themselves with movable top-knots which
could be worked at effective moments by pulling a string below.... To-night the choruses and
plantation-songs led by Royds were really well sung, and they repay him for the very great
pains he has taken in the rehearsals.'

So with entertainments to beguile the time, and with blizzards to endure, and with preparations
to make for sledding, the days passed by until on August 21 the sun was once more due to return.
But on that [Page 88] day a few hours of calm in the morning were succeeded by whirling snow-squalls
from the south, and each lull was followed by a wild burst of wind. Scott was glad enough to
have everyone on board in such weather, and at noon when he had hoped to be far over the hills
only vast sheets of gleaming snow could be seen. The following day, however, was an ideal one
for the first view of the long-absent sun, and Scott went to the top of Crater Hill to watch
and welcome. 'Over all the magnificent view the sunlight spreads with gorgeous effect after
its long absence; a soft pink envelops the western ranges, a brilliant red gold covers the
northern sky; to the north also each crystal of snow sparkles with reflected light. The sky
shows every gradation of light and shade; little flakes of golden sunlit cloud float against
the pale blue heaven, and seem to hover in the middle heights, whilst far above them a feathery
white cirrus shades to grey on its unlit sides.'

But when the men were told that the sun could be seen from Hut Point, to Scott's astonishment
they displayed little or no enthusiasm. Everyone seemed glad to think that it had been punctual
in keeping its appointment, but after all they had seen the sun a good many times before, and
in the next few months they would in all probability see it a good many times again, and there
was no sense in getting excited about it. Some of them did set off at a run for the point,
while others, since it seemed the right thing to do, followed at a walk, but a good [Page 89]
number remained on board and had their dinner. On August 25 the Feast of the Sun was duly celebrated,
and the days that followed were fuller than ever with preparations for the spring journeys.
The only sewing-machine clattered away all day long, and the whole company plied their needles
as if they were being sweated by iron-handed taskmasters. The long winter was at an end, and
everyone, in the best of spirits, was looking forward eagerly to the spring sledge journeys,
and making garments in which to bid defiance to the wind and the weather. As regards the actual
sledge equipment which was taken to the south, Scott had depended on the experience of others,
and especially on that of Armitage, but owing to a variety of reasons the difficulty of providing
an efficient sledding outfit had been immense.

In England twenty-five years had passed since any important sledding expedition had been accomplished,
and during that time not a single sledge, and very few portions of a sledge equipment, had
been made in the country. The popular accounts of former expeditions were not written to supply
the minute details required, and no memory could be expected to retain these details after
such a lapse of time. In fact the art of sledge-making was lost in England, but fortunately
the genius of Nansen had transferred it to Norway. In the autumn of 1900 Scott had visited
Christiania, and there received much advice and assistance from Nansen himself. It was not,
however, until Armitage agreed to serve as second in [Page 90] command of the expedition that
Scott had anyone on whom he could rely to provide the sledding outfit.

In making these preparations for long journeys in the south, there was no previous experience
to go upon except that which had been gained in the north; indeed it was necessary to assume
that southern conditions would be more or less similar to those of the north, and in so far
as they proved different the sledding outfit ran the risk of failure. Experience taught Scott
that in many respects the sledding conditions of the south were different from those of the
north, and so it is only fair to consider the sledge journeys taken by the Discovery expedition
as pioneer efforts. These differences are both climatic and geographical. For instance, the
conditions in the south are more severe than those in the north, both in the lowness of the
temperatures and in the distressing frequency of blizzards and strong winds. And the geographical
difference between the work of the northern and the southern sledge-traveler is as great as
the climatic, if not greater, for the main part of northern traveling has been and will be
done on sea-ice, while the larger part of southern traveling has been and will be done over
land surfaces, or what in this respect are their equivalents.

So impressed was Scott by the impossibility of dragging a sledge over the surfaces of the Great
Barrier to the South at the rate maintained by the old English travelers on the northern sea-ice,
that he began seriously to think that the British race of explorers [Page 91] must have deteriorated
rapidly and completely in stamina. But later on, in carrying out exploration to the west, he
had to travel over the sea-ice of the strait, and then he discovered that--given the surface
there was nothing wrong with the pace at which his sledge parties could travel. Probably, however,
the distances recorded by the northern travelers will never be exceeded in the south, for the
Antarctic explorer has to meet severer climatic conditions, and while pulling his sledge over
heavier surfaces he is not likely to meet with fewer obstacles in his path. To make marching
records is not, of course, the main purpose of sledge-travelers, but all the same, where conditions
are equal, speed and the distance traveled are a direct test of the efficiency of sledding
preparations, and of the spirit of those who undertake this arduous service.

The main differences between the sledges used by the Discovery expedition and those used by
other explorers were a decrease in breadth and an increase in runner surface. Measured across
from the center of one runner to the center of the other Scott's sledges were all, with one
exception, 1 foot 5 inches. The runners themselves were 3-3/4 inches across, so that the sledge
track from side to side measured about 1 foot 8-3/4 inches. The lengths varied from 12 feet
to 7 feet, but the 11-foot sledges proved to be by far the most convenient--a length of 12
feet seeming to pass just beyond the limit of handiness.

Taking then 11 feet as about the best length for this type of sledge, it will be seen that
it differed [Page 92] considerably from the old Arctic type, which was 10 feet long and 3 feet
broad. The weight of such all 11-foot sledge was anything between 40 and 47 lbs., and this
was none too light when the full strength of the structure was required. Generally speaking,
the full load that could be put upon them was about 600 lbs. The most important part of the
sledge is the runner, in which the grain must be perfectly straight and even, or it will splinter
very easily; but it surprised Scott to find what a lot of wear a good wood runner would stand,
provided that it was only taken over snow. 'Some of our 9-foot sledges must,' he says, 'have
traveled 1,000 miles, and there was still plenty of wear left in the runners.'

In point of numbers the Discovery's crew was far behind the old Northern expeditions; and it
was this fact that made Scott decide, in arranging a sledge equipment where men and not dogs
would do most of the haulage, to divide his parties into the smallest workable units. The old
Northern plan had allowed for parties of at least eight, who, having a common tent and cooking
arrangements, could not be subdivided. Scott's plan was not necessarily to limit the number
of men in his parties, but to divide them into units of three, which should be self-contained,
so that whenever it was advisable a unit could be detached from the main party. Under such
a system it is obvious that each unit must have its own tent, sleeping-bag, cooker, and so
on; and therein lay a disadvantage, as economy of material and weight can [Page 93] be better
carried out with a large unit than with a small one.

The weights of a party naturally divide themselves under two headings: the permanent, which
will not diminish throughout the trip, and the consumable, including food, oil, &c. The following
is a list of the permanent weights carried on Scott's journey to the west, and it will give
some idea of the variety of articles, exclusive of provisions. The party numbered six.

                                                      lbs.
  2 Sledges with fittings complete                    130
    Trace                                               5
  2 Cookers, pannikins and spoons                      30
  2 Primus lamps, filled                               10
  2 Tents complete                                     60
  2 Spades                                              9
  2 Sleeping-bags with night-gear                     100
    Sleeping jackets, crampons, spare finnesko[1]      50
    Medical bag                                         6
  3 Ice-axes                                            8
    Bamboos and marks                                  11.5
    Instruments and camera                             50
    Alpine rope                                         9
    Repair and tool bags, sounding-line, tape,
      sledge brakes                                    15
    Ski boots for party                                15
    Ski for party                                      60

    Total                                             568.5

[Footnote 1: Reindeer-fur boots.]

[Page 94] Roughly speaking, a man can drag from 200 to 240 lbs., but his load was rarely above
200 lbs. This for six men gave a total carrying capacity of 1,200 lbs. and hence about 630
lbs. could be devoted to provisions.

Again, speaking very roughly, this amount is about six weeks' food for a party of six, but
as such a short period is often not long enough to satisfy sledge-travelers, they are compelled
to organize means by which their journey can be prolonged. This can be done in two ways; they
may either go out earlier in the season and lay a depôt at a considerable distance towards
their goal, or they may arrange to receive assistance from a supporting party, which accompanies
them for a certain distance on the road and helps their advance party to drag a heavier load
than they can accomplish alone.

Both of these plans were adopted by Scott on the more important journeys, and his parties were
able to be absent from the ship for long periods and to travel long distances.

[Page 95] CHAPTER V

THE START OF THE SOUTHERN JOURNEY

  Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit
  To its full height...

                                ...Shew us here
  That you are worth your breeding, which I doubt not.
  For there is none so mean or base
  That have not noble lustre in your eyes.
  I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
  Straining upon the start.
  --SHAKESPEARE.

During the later months of the dark season all thoughts had been turned to the prospects of
the spring journeys, and many times the advantages and disadvantages of dogs for sledding were
discussed. This question of the sacrifice of animal life was one on which Scott felt strongly
from the time he became an explorer to the end of his life. Argue with himself as he might,
the idea was always repugnant to his nature.

'To say,' he wrote after his first expedition, that dogs do not greatly increase the radius
of action is absurd; to pretend that they can be worked to this end without pain, suffering,
and death, is equally futile. The question is whether the latter can be justified by the gain,
and I think that logically it may be; [Page 96] but the introduction of such sordid necessity
must and does rob sledge-traveling of much of its glory. In my mind no journey ever made with
dogs can approach the height of that fine conception which is realized when a party of men
go forth to face hardships, dangers, and difficulties with their own unaided efforts, and by
days and weeks of hard physical labour succeed in solving some problem of the great unknown.
Surely in this case the conquest is more nobly and splendidly won.'

When the spring campaign opened in 1902 the original team of dogs had been sadly diminished.
Of the nineteen that remained for the southern journey, all but one--and he was killed at an
earlier period--left their bones on the great southern plains. This briefly is the history
of the dogs, but the circumstances under which they met their deaths will be mentioned later on.

Before Scott started on the southern journey he decided to make a short trip to the north with
the dogs and a party of six officers and men, his main purposes being to test the various forms
of harness, and to find out whether the dogs pulled best in large or small teams. During part
of this journey, which only lasted from September 2 to 5, the four sledges were taken independently
with four dogs harnessed to each, and it was discovered that if the first team got away all
right, the others were often keen to play the game of 'follow my leader.' Sometimes, indeed,
there was a positive spirit of rivalry, and on one occasion two [Page 97] competing teams got
closer and closer to each other, with the natural result that when they were near enough to
see what was happening, they decided that the easiest way to settle the matter was by a free
fight. So they turned inwards with one accord and met with a mighty shock. In a moment there
was a writhing mass of fur and teeth, and an almost hopeless confusion of dog traces. But even
in this short trip some experience had been gained; for results showed how unwise it was to
divide the dogs into small parties, and also there was no mistaking which were the strong and
which the weak dogs, and, what was of more importance, which the willing and which the lazy ones.

On September 10, Royds and Koettlitz started off to the south-west with Evans, Quartley, Lashly
and Wild. And of this party Scott wrote: 'They looked very workmanlike, and one could see at
a glance the vast improvement that has been made since last year. The sledges were uniformly
packed.... One shudders now to think of the slovenly manner in which we conducted things last
autumn; at any rate here is a first result of the care and attention of the winter.'

Armitage and Ferrar with four men left for the west on the following day, but owing to the
necessity of making fresh harness for the dogs and to an exasperating blizzard, Scott was not
able to start on his southern reconnaissance journey until September 17.

On the morning of that day he and his two companions, [Page 98] Barne and Shackleton, with
thirteen dogs divided into two teams, left the ship in bright sunshine; but by 1.15 P.M., when
they camped for lunch, the wind was blowing from the east and the thermometer was down to -43°.

The sledges carried a fortnight's food for all concerned, together with a quantity of stores
to form a depôt, the whole giving a load of about 90 lbs. per dog; but this journey was destined
to be only a short and bitter experience.

The reason was that on the night of the 17th the travelers were so exhausted that they did
not heap enough snow on the skirting of the tent, and when Scott woke up on the following morning
he found himself in the open. 'At first, as I lifted the flap of my sleeping-bag, I could not
think what had happened. I gazed forth on a white sheet of drifting snow, with no sign of the
tent or my companions. For a moment I wondered what in the world it could mean, but the lashing
of the snow in my face very quickly awoke me to full consciousness, and I sat up to find that
in some extraordinary way I had rolled out of the tent.'

At the time a violent gale was raging, and through the blinding snow Scott could only just
see the tent, though it was flapping across the foot of his bag; but when he had wriggled back
to the tent the snow was whirling as freely inside as without, and the tent itself was straining
so madly at what remained of its securing, that something had to be done at once to prevent
it from blowing away altogether. [Page 99] So with freezing fingers they gripped the skirting
and gradually pulled it inwards, and half sitting upon it, half grasping it, they tried to
hold it against the wild blasts of the storm, while they discussed the situation. Discussion,
however, was useless. An attempt to secure the tent properly in such weather was impossible,
while they felt that if once they loosed their grip, the tent would hasten to leave them at
once and for ever. Every now and then they were forced to get a fresh hold, and lever themselves
once more over the skirt. And as they remained hour after hour grimly hanging on and warning
each other of frostbitten features, their sleeping-bags became fuller and fuller of snow, until
they were lying in masses of chilly slush. Not until 6 P.M. had they by ceaseless exertions
so far become masters of the situation, that there was no further need for the tent to be held
with anything except the weight of their sleeping-bags. Then an inspection of hands showed
a number of frostbites, but Barne, whose fingers had not recovered from the previous year,
had suffered the most. 'To have hung on to the tent through all those hours must have been
positive agony to him, yet he never uttered a word of complaint.'

By 10 P.M. the worst of the storm had passed, and after a few hours' sleep and a hot meal,
they soon decided that to push on after this most miserable experience was very unwise, since
by returning to the ship they would only lose one day's march and everything could be dried
for a fresh start.

[Page 100] Apart from 'Brownie,' who spent his time inside the tent, the rest of the dogs never
uttered a sound during the storm, and were found quite happily sleeping in their nests of snow.
On the journey back the thermometer recorded -53°, and the effect of such a temperature upon
wet clothing may be imagined. 'I shall remember the condition of my trousers for a long while;
they might have been cut out of sheet iron. It was some time before I could walk with any sort
of ease, and even when we reached the ship I was conscious of carrying an armor plate behind
me.... It will certainly be a very long time before I go to sleep again in a tent which is
not properly secured.'

On September 24 Scott was ready to start again, but Barne's fingers had suffered so severely
that his place was taken by the boatswain, Feather, who had taken a keen interest in every
detail of sledding. Owing to the dogs refusing to do what was expected of them, and to gales,
slow progress was made, but the wind had dropped by the morning of September 29, and Scott
was so anxious to push on that he took no notice of a fresh bank of cloud coming up from the
south, with more wind and drift. Taking the lead himself, he gave orders to the two teams to
follow rigidly in his wake, whatever turns and twists he might make. Notwithstanding the bad
light he could see the bridged crevasses, where they ran across the bare ice surface, by slight
differences in shade, and though he could not see them where they dived into the valleys, he
found that the bridges were strong enough to bear. In [Page 101] his desire to use the snowy
patches as far as possible, the course he took was very irregular, and the dogs invariably
tried to cut corners. In this manner they proceeded for some time, until Scott suddenly heard
a shout, and looking back saw to his horror that Feather had vanished. The dog team and sledges
were there all right, but their leader was lost to sight. Hurrying back he found that the trace
had disappeared down a formidable crevasse, but to his great relief Feather was at the end
of the trace, and was soon hauled up. One strand of Feather's harness was cut clean through
where it fell across the ice-edge, and although, being a man of few words, he was more inclined
to swear at 'Nigger' for trying to cut a corner than to marvel at his own escape, there is
no doubt that he had a very close call.

After this accident the dog teams were joined, and reluctant to give up they advanced again;
but very soon the last of the four sledges disappeared, and was found hanging vertically up
and down in an ugly-looking chasm. To the credit of the packing not a single thing had come
off, in spite of the jerk with which it had fallen. It was, however, too heavy to haul up as
it was, but, after some consultation, the indefatigable Feather proposed that he should be
let down and undertake the very cold job of unpacking it. So he was slung with one end of the
Alpine rope, while the other was used for hauling up the various packages; and at last the
load was got up, and the lightened sledge soon followed.

After this incident they thought it prudent to treat these numerous crevasses with more respect,
and on [Page 102] proceeding they roped themselves together; but although no more mishaps occurred,
Scott afterwards was more inclined to attribute this to good luck than to good judgment. 'Looking
back on this day, I cannot but think our procedure was extremely rash. I have not the least
doubt now that this region was a very dangerous one, and the fact that we essayed to cross
it in this light-hearted fashion can only be ascribed to our ignorance. With us, I am afraid,
there were not a few occasions when one might have applied the proverb that "Fools rush in
where angels fear to tread."'

The depôt, leaving six weeks' provision for three men and 150 lbs. of dog-food, was made on
the morning of October 1, and besides marking it with a large black flag, Scott was also careful
to take angles with a prismatic compass to all the points he could see. Then they started home,
and the dogs knowing at once what was meant no longer required any driving. On the homeward
march the travelers went for all they were worth, and in spite of perpetual fog covered eighty-five
statute miles in less than three days.

On returning to the ship Scott admits that he found it a most delightful place. The sense of
having done what he wanted to do had something to do with this feeling of satisfaction, but
it was the actual physical comfort after days of privation that chiefly affected him. The joy
of possessing the sledding appetite was sheer delight, and for many days after the travelers
returned from their sledding-trips, they retained a hunger which it seemed impossible to satisfy.

[Page 103] In short Scott, on the night of his return, was very pleased with himself and the
world in general, but before he went to bed all his sense of comfort and peace had gone. For
he had discovered what Armitage, wishing to give him some hours of unmixed enjoyment, had not
meant to mention until the following morning, and this was that there had been an outbreak
of scurvy--the disease that has played a particularly important, and often a tragic, part in
the adventures of Polar travelers, and the seriousness of which everyone who has read the history
of Polar explorations cannot fail to realize.

This outbreak had occurred during Armitage's journey, and when he, after much anxiety, had
got his men back to the ship, Wilson's medical examination proved that Ferrar, Heald and Cross
were all attacked, while the remainder of the party were not above suspicion.

Very soon, however, symptoms of the disease began to abate, but the danger lurking around them
was continually in Scott's thoughts, and he was determined not to give the dreaded enemy another
chance to break out.

Everything possible was done to make the ship and everything in her sweet and clean, and after
a large seal-killing party, sent out at Wilson's suggestion, had returned, the order was given
that no tinned meat of any description should be issued. By October 20 this grave disease had
to all intents and purposes passed away, but although evidence showed that it was [Page 104]
caused by tinned meats which were to all appearances of the best quality, and by apparently
fresh mutton taken in small quantities, there was no positive proof that these were the causes
of the trouble.

This attack of scurvy came as a great surprise to everyone, for when the long winter was over
and all of them were in good health and high spirits, they had naturally congratulated themselves
on the effectiveness of their precautions. The awakening from this pleasant frame of mind was
rude, and though the disease vanished with astonishing rapidity, it was--quite apart from the
benefit lost to medical science--very annoying not to be able to say definitely from what the
evil had sprung.

But although the seriousness of this outbreak was not underrated, and every precaution was
taken to prevent its recurrence, preparations for the various journeys were pushed on with
no less vigour and enthusiasm. The game to play was that there was nothing really to be alarmed
about, and everyone played it with the greatest success.

Scott's journey to the south had indicated that the main party would have to travel directly
over the snow-plain at a long distance from, and perhaps out of sight of, land; and as in all
probability no further depôts could be established, it was desirable that this party should
be supported as far as possible on their route. To meet these requirements it was decided that
Barne, with a party of twelve men, should accompany the dog-team, until the weights were reduced
to an amount [Page 105] which the dogs could drag without assistance. Then Barne was to return
to the ship, and after a short rest start again with six men, to follow the coast-line west
of the Bluff. As soon as this was in train, Armitage was to have at his disposal all the men
and material left in the ship for his attack on the western region.

On Friday, October 24, Royds, who had left the ship three weeks before with Skelton, Lashly,
Evans, Quartley and Wild, returned with the good news that he had been able to communicate
with the 'Record' post at Cape Crozier. If a relief ship was going to be sent out, Scott now
had the satisfaction of knowing that she had a good prospect of being guided to the winter
quarters of the expedition. It was also a great source of satisfaction to find that although
Royds and his party had left almost immediately after the outbreak of scurvy, they had all
returned safe and with no symptom of the disease.

From the 13th to the 18th this party had been kept in their tents by a most persistent blizzard,
and before the blizzard ceased they were practically buried in the heart of a snowdrift; in
fact one tent had literally to be dug out before its occupants could be got into the open,
while the sledges and everything left outside were completely buried. As the snow gradually
accumulated round the tents it became heavier and heavier on every fold of canvas, and reduced
the interior space to such an extent that those inside were obliged to lie with their knees
bent double. Royds, whose reports were invariably very brief and to [Page 106] the point, dismissed
the tale of these five days in half a page, but no great effort of imagination is needed to
grasp the horrible discomforts everyone must have endured. And yet when this party recounted
their adventures on board the ship, the hardships were scarcely mentioned, and all that the
men seemed to remember were the amusing incidents that had happened.

On this journey a colony of Emperor penguins was discovered, and among them were several which
were nursing chicks. 'I will only testify,' Scott says, 'to the joy which greeted this discovery
on board the ship. We had felt that this penguin was the truest type of our region. All other
birds fled north when the severity of winter descended upon us: the Emperor alone was prepared
to face the extremest rigors of our climate; and we gathered no small satisfaction from being
the first to throw light on the habits of a creature, which so far surpasses in hardihood all
others of the feathered tribe.'

Before the end of October everything was prepared for the southern journey; every eventuality
seemed to be provided for, and as it was expected that the dogs would travel faster than the
men Barne and his party started off on October 30, while the dog team left a few days later.
'The supporting party started this morning, amidst a scene of much enthusiasm; all hands had
a day off, and employed it in helping to drag the sledges for several miles... Barne's banner
floated on the first, the next bore a Union Jack, and [Page 107] another carried a flag with
a large device stating "No dogs needs apply"; the reference was obvious. It was an inspiriting
sight to see nearly the whole of our small company step out on the march with ringing cheers,
and to think that all work of this kind promised to be done as heartily.'

And then the day that Scott had been so eagerly looking forward to arrived, and at ten o'clock
on the morning of November 2, he, Shackleton and Wilson, amidst the wild cheers of their comrades,
started on the southern journey. 'Every soul was gathered on the floe to bid us farewell, and
many were prepared to accompany us for the first few miles.' The dogs, as if knowing that a
great effort was expected of them, had never been in such form, and in spite of the heavy load
and the fact that at first two men had to sit on the sledges to check them, it was as much
as the rest of the party could do to keep up. By noon the volunteers had all tailed off, and
the three travelers were alone with the dogs, and still breathlessly trying to keep pace with
them. Soon afterwards they caught sight of a dark spot ahead and later on made this out to
be the supporting party, who, when they were overtaken on the same evening, reported that they
had been kept in their tents by bad weather. Having relieved them of some of their loads, Scott
camped, while they pushed on to get the advantage of a night march.

During the next few days the two parties constantly passed and re-passed each other, since
it was [Page 108] impossible for Scott to push on ahead of Barne's party, and the latter's
progress was very slow, as they could get no hold with their fur boots, and they found their
ski leather boots dreadfully cold for their feet. To add to the slowness of the journey the
weather was very unfavorable, and the greater parts of the 8th and 9th were entirely wasted
by a blizzard. On the 10th Depôt A, that had previously been laid, was reached and Scott wrote:
'Already it seems to me that the dogs feel the monotony of a long march over the snow more
than we do; they seem easily to get dispirited, and that it is not due to fatigue is shown
when they catch a glimpse of anything novel.... To-day, for instance, they required some driving
until they caught sight of the depôt flag, when they gave tongue loudly and dashed off as though
they barely felt the load behind them.'

The names of the dogs were:

  Nigger          Birdie          Wolf
  Jim             Nell            Vic
  Spud            Blanco          Bismarck
  Snatcher        Grannie         Kid
  Fitzclarence    Lewis           Boss
  Stripes         Gus             Brownie
                  Joe

Each of them had his peculiar characteristics, and what the Southern party did not already
know concerning their individualities, they had ample opportunities of finding out in the course
of the next few weeks.

[Page 109] Nigger was the leader of the team; a place he chose naturally for himself, and if
he was put into any other position he behaved so unpleasantly to his neighbors, and so generally
upset things, that he was quickly shifted. A more perfect sledge-dog could scarcely be imagined.
He seemed to know the meaning of every move, and in camp would be still as a graven image until
he saw the snow being shoveled from the skirting of the tent, when he would spring up and pace
to and fro at his picket, and give a low throaty bark of welcome if anyone approached him.
A few minutes later, when the leading man came to uproot his picket, he would watch every movement,
and a slow wagging of the tail quite obviously showed his approval: then, as the word came
to start, he would push affectionately against the leader, as much as to say, 'Now come along!'
and brace his powerful chest to the harness. At the evening halt after a long day he would
drop straight in his tracks and remain perfectly still, with his magnificent black head resting
on his paws. Other dogs might clamor for food, but Nigger knew perfectly well that the tent
had first to be put up. Afterwards, however, when the dog-food was approached his deep bell-like
note could always be distinguished amid the howling chorus, and if disturbance was to be avoided
it was well to attend to him first of all.

Of the other dogs Lewis was noisily affectionate and hopelessly clumsy; Jim could pull splendidly
when he chose, but he was up to all the tricks of the trade and was extraordinarily cunning
at pretending to pull; [Page 110] Spud was generally considered to be daft; Birdie evidently
had been treated badly in his youth and remained distrustful and suspicious to the end; Kid
was the most indefatigable worker in the team; Wolf's character possessed no redeeming point
of any kind, while Brownie though a little too genteel for very hard work was charming as a
pet, and it may also be said of him that he never lost an opportunity of using his pleasant
appearance and delightful ways to lighten his afflictions. The load for this dog team after
Depôt A had been passed was 1,850 lbs., which, considering that some of the dogs were of little
use, was heavy. But it must not be forgotten that the men also expected to pull, and that each
night the weight would be reduced by thirty or forty pounds. By the 13th the travelers were
nearly up to the 79th parallel, and therefore farther south than anyone had yet been. 'The
announcement of the fact caused great jubilation, and I am extremely glad that there are no
fewer than fifteen of us to enjoy this privilege of having broken the record.' A photograph
of the record-breakers was taken, and then half of the supporting party started to return,
and the other half stepped out once more on a due south line, with the dogs following.

By the 15th, however, when the rest of the supporting party turned back, Scott had begun to
be anxious about the dogs. 'The day's work has cast a shadow on our high aspirations, and already
it is evident that if we are to achieve much it will be only by extreme toil, for the dogs
have not pulled well to-day.... [Page 111] We have decided that if things have not improved
in the morning we will take on half a load at a time; after a few days of this sort of thing
the loads will be sufficiently lightened for us to continue in the old way again.'

On the following day an attempt to start with the heavy loads promptly and completely failed,
and the only thing to do was to divide the load into two portions and take half on at a time.
This meant, of course, that each mile had to be traveled three times, but there was no alternative
to this tedious form of advance. Even, however, with the half-loads the dogs seemed to have
lost all their spirit, and at the end of the march on the 18th they were practically 'done.'
Only five geographical miles[1] were gained on that day, but to do it they had to cover fifteen.

[Footnote 1: 7 geographical miles = a little more than 8 statute miles.]

On the night of the 19th matters had gone from bad to worse, and it had to be acknowledged
that the fish diet the dogs were eating permanently disagreed with them. Originally Scott had
intended to take ordinary dog-biscuits for the animals, but in an unlucky moment he was persuaded
by an expert in dog-driving to take fish. The fish taken was the Norwegian stock-fish, such
as is split, dried and exported from that country in great quantities for human food. But one
important point was overlooked, namely the probability of the fish being affected on passing
through the tropics. The lesson, Scott said, was obvious, that in future travelers in the south
should safeguard their [Page 112] dogs as carefully as they do their men, for in this case
it was the dogs that called the halts; and so the party had to spend hours in their tent which
might have been devoted to marching.

Day after day relay work continued, the only relief from the monotony of their toil being that
land was sighted on the 21st, and as the prospects of reaching a high latitude were steadily
disappearing, it was decided to alter their course to S. S. W. and edge towards it. Then the
surface over which they were traveling showed signs of improvement, but the travelers themselves
were beginning to suffer from blistered noses and cracked lips, and their eyes were also troubling
them. Appetites, however, were increasing by leaps and bounds. 'The only thing to be looked
to on our long marches is the prospect of the next meal.'

On November 24 a new routine was started which made a little variation in the dull toil of
relay work. After pushing on the first half-load one of the three stopped with it, and got
up the tent and prepared the meal while the other two brought up the second half-load. And
then on the following day came one of those rewards which was all the sweeter because it had
been gained by ceaseless and very monotonous toil.

'Before starting to-day I took a meridian altitude,' Scott wrote, 'and to my delight found
the latitude to be 80° 1'. All our charts of the Antarctic region show a plain white circle
beyond the eightieth parallel... It has always been our ambition to get inside that white [Page
113] space, and now we are there the space can no longer be a blank; this compensates for a
lot of trouble.'

A blizzard followed upon this success, but the dogs were so exhausted that a day's rest had
been thought of even if the weather had not compelled it. Wilson, to his great discomfort,
was always able to foretell these storms, for when they were coming on he invariably suffered
from rheumatism; so, however reluctant, he could not help being a very effective barometer.

After the storm had passed an attempt was made on the morning of the 27th to start with the
full load, but it took next to no time to discover that the dogs had not benefited by their
rest, and there was nothing to do except to go on with the old routine of relay work. As the
days passed with no signs of improvement in the dogs, it became more and more necessary to
reach the land in hopes of making a depôt; so the course was laid to the westward of S. W.,
which brought the high black headland, for which they were making, on their port bow. 'I imagine
it to be about fifty miles off, but hope it is not so much; nine hours' work to-day has only
given us a bare four miles.'

Then for some days the only change in the toil of relay work and the sickening task of driving
tired dogs on and on was that they marched by night, and rested by day. The breakfast hour
was between 4 and 5 P.M., the start at 6 P.M., and they came to camp somewhere between three
and four in the morning. Thus they rested while the sun was at its greatest [Page 114] height;
but although there were certainly advantages in this, Scott could not get rid of a curious
feeling that something was amiss with such a topsy-turvy method of procedure.

By December 3 they were close enough to the land to make out some of its details. On their
right was a magnificent range of mountains, which by rough calculations Scott made out to be
at least fifty miles away. By far the nearest point of land was an isolated snow-cape, an immense,
and almost dome-shaped, snow-covered mass. At first no rock at all could be seen on it, but
as they got nearer a few patches began to appear. For one of these patches they decided to
make so that they might establish a depôt, but at the rate at which they were traveling there
was little hope of reaching it for several days.

By this time the appetites of the party were so ravenous that when the pemmican bag was slung
alongside a tin of paraffin, and both smelt and tasted of oil, they did not really mind. But
what saddened them more than this taste of paraffin was the discovery, on December 5, that
their oil was going too fast. A gallon was to have lasted twelve days, but on investigation
it was found on an average to have lasted only ten, which meant that in the future each gallon
would have to last a fortnight. 'This is a distinct blow, as we shall have to sacrifice our
hot luncheon meal and to economize greatly at both the others. We started the new routine to-night,
and for lunch ate some frozen seal-meat and our allowance of sugar and biscuit.'

[Page 115] It was perhaps fortunate that their discovery about the oil was not delayed any
longer, but nevertheless it came at a time when the outlook was dreary and dispiriting enough
without additional discomforts. On the 6th Spud gnawed through his trace, and when Scott went
outside before breakfast, one glance at the dog's balloon-like appearance was enough to show
how he had spent his hours of freedom. He had, in fact, eaten quite a week's allowance of the
precious seal-meat, and though rather somnolent after his gorge, he did not seem to be suffering
any particular discomfort from the enormous increase of his waist. On the next day there was
a blizzard, duly predicted by Wilson's twinges of rheumatism, and on the 8th Scott reluctantly
records that the dogs were steadily going downhill. 'The lightening of the load is more than
counter-balanced by the weakening of the animals, and I can see no time in which we can hope
to get the sledges along without pulling ourselves.'

By the 10th they were within ten or twelve miles of the coast, but so exhausted that they felt
no certainty of reaching it; and even supposing they did get there and make a depôt, they doubted
very much if they would be in any condition to go on. One dog, Snatcher, was already dead,
and some of the others had only been got to move with the second load by the ignominious device
of carrying food in front of them. To see the dogs suffering was agony to those who had to
drive and coax them on, and though Scott refers often in these days to the hunger that was
nipping him, [Page 116] no one can read his diary without seeing how infinitely more he was
concerned over the suffering of the dogs than about his own troubles. 'It is terrible,' he
says, 'to see them.'

At last, on December 14, they arrived, when they were almost spent, at a place where dog-food
could be left. In their march they had only managed to do two miles after the most strenuous
exertions, for the snow became softer as they approached the land, and the sledge-runners sank
from three to four inches. On any particularly soft patch they could do little more than mark
time, and even to advance a yard was an achievement.

No wonder that Scott, after they had left three weeks' provisions and a quantity of dog-food
in Depôt B and had resumed their march, sounded a note of thankfulness: 'As I write I scarcely
know how to describe the blessed relief it is to be free from our relay work. For one-and-thirty
awful days we have been at it, and whilst I doubt if our human endurance could have stood it
much more, I am quite sure the dogs could not. It seems now like a nightmare, which grew more
terrible towards its end.' The sense of relief was, however, not destined to last, for on December
21 the dogs were in such a hopeless condition that they might at any moment have completely
collapsed. This was a fact that had to be faced, and the question whether under such circumstances
it was wise to push on had to be asked and answered. The unanimous answer was that the risk
[Page 117] of going on should be taken, but on that same night Wilson, in view of future plans,
reported to Scott that his medical examinations revealed that Shackleton had decidedly angry-looking
gums, and that for some time they had been slowly but surely getting worse. It was decided
not to tell Shackleton of these symptoms of scurvy, and as the bacon they were using seemed
likely to be the cause of them, it was discarded and an increased allowance of seal given in
its place. This was a loss in weight which was serious, for already they were reduced almost
to starvation rations of about a pound and a half a day.

Supper was the best meal, for then they had a hoosh which ran from between three-quarters to
a whole pannikin apiece, but even this they could not afford to make thick. While it was being
heated in the central cooker, cocoa was made in the outer, but the lamp was turned out directly
the hoosh boiled, and by that time the chill was barely off the contents of the outer cooker.
Of course the cocoa was not properly dissolved, but they were long past criticizing the quality
of their food. All they wanted was something to 'fill up,' but needless to say they never got
it. Half an hour after supper was over they were as hungry as ever.

When they had started from the ship, there had been a vague idea that they could go as they
pleased with the food, but experience showed that this would not do, and that there must be
a rigid system of shares. Consequently they used to take it in turn to divide [Page 118] things
into three equal portions, and as the man who made the division felt called upon to take the
smallest share, the game of 'shut-eye' was invented to stop all arguments and remonstrances.
The shares were divided as equally as possible by someone, then one of the other two turned
his head away and the divider pointed to a portion and said, 'Whose is this?' He of the averted
head named the owner, and thus this simple but useful game was played.

Wilson's examination of Shackleton on December 24 was not encouraging, but they had reached
a much harder surface and under those conditions Scott and Wilson agreed that it was not yet
time to say 'Turn.' Besides, Christmas Day was in front of them, and for a week they had all
agreed that it would be a crime to go to bed hungry on that night. In fact they meant it to
be a wonderful day, and everything conspired to make it so.

The sun shone gloriously from a clear sky, and not a breath of wind disturbed the calmness
of the morning, but entrancing as the scene was they did not stay to contemplate it, because
for once they were going to have a really substantial breakfast, and this was an irresistible
counter-attraction.

And afterwards, when they felt more internally comfortable than they had for weeks, the surface
continued to be so much better that the sledges could be pulled without any help from the dogs.
On that day they had the satisfaction of covering nearly eleven miles, the longest march they
had made for a long [Page 119] time. So when camp was pitched they were thoroughly pleased
with the day, and ready to finish it off with a supper to be remembered. A double 'whack' of
everything was poured into the cooking-pot, and in the hoosh that followed a spoon would stand
without any support, and the cocoa was also brought to boiling-point.

'I am writing,' Scott says, 'over my second pipe. The sun is still circling our small tent
in a cloudless sky, the air is warm and quiet. All is pleasant without, and within we have
a sense of comfort we have not known for many a day; we shall sleep well tonight--no dreams,
no tightening of the belt.

'We have been chattering away gaily, and not once has the conversation turned to food. We have
been wondering what Christmas is like in England... and how our friends picture us. They will
guess that we are away on our sledge journey, and will perhaps think of us on plains of snow;
but few, I think, will imagine the truth, that for us this has been the reddest of all red-letter
days.'

[Page 120] CHAPTER VI

THE RETURN

        How many weary steps
  Of many weary miles you have o'ergone,
  Are numbered to the travel of one mile.
    SHAKESPEARE.

Some days passed before the pleasing effects of Christmas Day wore off, for it had been a delightful
break in an otherwise uninterrupted spell of semi-starvation, and the memories lingered long
after hunger had again gripped the three travelers. By this time they knew that they had cut
themselves too short in the matter of food, but the only possible alteration that could now
be made in their arrangements was to curtail their journey, and rather than do that they were
ready cheerfully to face the distress of having an enormous appetite, and very little with
which to appease it.

Thinking over the homeward marches after he had returned to the ship, Scott expresses his emphatic
opinion that the increasing weariness showed that they were expending their energies at a greater
rate than they could renew them, and that the additional [Page 121] weight, caused by carrying
a proper allowance of food, would have been amply repaid by the preservation of their full
strength and vigour.

Apart, however, from the actual pangs of hunger, there was another disadvantage from this lack
of food, for try as they would it was impossible not to think and talk incessantly of eating.
Before they went to sleep it was almost certain that one of them would give a detailed description
of what he considered an ideal feast, while on the march they found themselves counting how
many footsteps went to the minute, and how many, therefore, had to be paced before another meal.

But if, during these days of hunger, thoughts of what they could eat if only the chance was
given to them kept constantly cropping up, there were also very real compensations for both
their mental and physical weariness. Day by day, as they journeyed on, they knew that they
were penetrating farther and farther into the unknown. Each footstep was a gain, and made the
result of their labours more assured. And as they studied the slowly revolving sledge-meter
or looked for the calculated results of their observations, it is not surprising that above
all the desires for food was an irresistible eagerness to go on and on, and to extend the line
which they were now drawing on the white space of the Antarctic chart.

Day by day, too, the magnificent panorama of the Western land was passing before their eyes.
'Rarely a march passed without the disclosure of some new [Page 122] feature, something on
which the eye of man had never rested; we should have been poor souls indeed had we not been
elated at the privilege of being the first to gaze on these splendid scenes.'

From the point of view of further exploration their position on December 26 was not very hopeful.
On their right lay a high undulating snow-cap and the steep irregular coast-line, to the south
lay a cape beyond which they could not hope to pass, and to all appearances these conditions
were likely to remain to the end of their journey. But on that night they had christened a
distant and lofty peak 'Mount Longstaff,' in honour of the man whose generosity had alone made
the expedition possible, and although they thought that this was the most southerly land to
which they would be able to give a name, they were in no mood to turn back because the outlook
was unpromising. Arguing on the principle that it was impossible to tell what may turn up,
they all decided to push on; and their decision was wise, for had they returned at that point
one of the most important features of the whole coast-line would have been missed.

On the 26th and 27th Wilson had a very bad attack of snow-blindness, which caused him the most
intense agony. Some days before Scott had remarked in his diary upon Wilson's extraordinary
industry: 'When it is fine and clear, at the end of our fatiguing days he will spend two or
three hours seated in the door of the tent sketching each detail of the splendid mountainous
coast-scene to the west. His sketches [Page 123] are most astonishingly accurate; I have tested
his proportions by actual angular measurements and found them correct.... But these long hours
in the glare are very bad for the eyes; we have all suffered a good deal from snow-blindness
of late, though we generally march with goggles, but Wilson gets the worst bouts, and I fear
it is mainly due to his sketching.'

The attack, however, after Christmas was very much worse than anything that had gone before,
and all day long during the 27th Wilson was pulling alongside the sledges with his eyes completely
covered. To march blindfold with an empty stomach must touch the bottom of miserable monotony,
but Wilson had not the smallest intention of giving in. With Scott walking opposite to him
and telling him of the changes that were happening around them he plodded steadily on, and
during the afternoon of the 27th it happened that a most glorious mountainous scene gradually
revealed itself. With some excitement Scott noticed that new mountain ridges were appearing
as high as anything they had seen to the north, and his excitement increased when these ridges
grew higher and higher. Then, instead of a downward turn in the distant outline came a steep
upward line, and as they pressed on apace to see what would happen next, Scott did his best
to keep Wilson posted up in the latest details. The end came in a gloriously sharp double peak
crowned with a few flecks of cirrus cloud, and all they could think of in camp that night was
this splendid twin-peaked mountain, which even in such [Page 124] a lofty country looked like
a giant among pigmies. 'At last we have found something which is fitting to bear the name of
him whom we must always the most delight to honour, and "Mount Markham" it shall be called
in memory of the father of the expedition.'

Wilson, in spite of his recent experiences, did not mean to miss this, and however much his
eyes had to suffer the scene had to be sketched. Fortunately a glorious evening provided a
perfect view of their surroundings, for very soon they knew that the limit of their journey
would be reached, and that they would have but few more opportunities to increase their stock
of information.

After a day that had brought with it both fine weather and most interesting discoveries, they
settled down in their sleeping-bags, full of hope that the morrow would be equally kind. But
instead of the proposed advance the whole day had to be spent in the tent while a strong southerly
blizzard raged without, and when they got up on the following morning they found themselves
enveloped in a thick fog.

Reluctantly the decision was made that this camp must be their last, and consequently their
southerly limit had been reached. Observations gave it as between 82.16 S. and 82.17 S., and
though this record may have compared poorly with what Scott had hoped for when leaving the
ship, it was far more favorable than he anticipated when the dogs had begun to fail. 'Whilst,'
he says, 'one cannot help a deep sense of disappointment in reflecting on the "might have been"
[Page 125] had our team remained in good health, one cannot but remember that even as it is
we have made a greater advance towards a pole of the earth than has ever yet been achieved
by a sledge party.'

With less than a fortnight's provision to take them back to Depôt B, they turned their faces
homewards on the last day of the year, and it was significant of the terrible condition of
the surviving dogs that the turn did not cause the smallest excitement. Many of them were already
dead, killed to keep the others alive, but those which remained seemed to guess how poor a
chance they had of getting back to the ship. Again and again Scott refers to the suffering
of the dogs on the homeward march, and how intensely he felt for them is proved beyond all
manner of doubt. 'January 3. This afternoon, shortly after starting, "Gus" fell, quite played
out, and just before our halt, to our greater grief, "Kid" caved in. One could almost weep
over this last case; he has pulled like a Trojan throughout, and his stout little heart bore
him up till his legs failed beneath him.' Only seven of the team now remained, and of them
Jim seemed to be the strongest, but Nigger, though weak, was still capable of surprising efforts.
But at the end of a week on the return journey, all of the remaining dogs were asked to do
nothing except walk by the sledges.

For several hours on January 7 the men pulled steadily and covered ten good miles. But the
distance they succeeded in traveling was as nothing compared with the relief they felt at no
longer having to drive [Page 126] a worn-out team. In the future no more cheering and dragging
in front would be needed, no more tangled traces would have to be put straight, and above all
there would be no more whip. So far steady though rather slow progress had been made, but January
8 brought an unpleasant surprise. Try as they would the sledge could scarcely be made to move,
and after three hours of the hardest work only a mile and a quarter had been gained. Sadly
they were compelled to admit that the surface had so completely changed that the only thing
to do was to remain in camp until it improved. But whether it would improve was an anxious
matter, for they had less than a week's provisions and were at least fifty miles from Depôt B.

The next day, however, saw an improvement in the surface, and a fairly good march was done.
By this time only four dogs were left, Nigger, Jim, Birdie and Lewis, and poor Nigger was so
lost out of harness that he sometimes got close to the traces and marched along as if he was
still doing his share of the pulling. But this more or less ordinary day was followed on the
10th by a march in a blizzard that exhausted Scott and Wilson, and had even a more serious
effect upon Shackleton. With the wind behind them they had gained many miles, but the march
had tired them out, because instead of the steady pulling to which they were accustomed they
had been compelled sometimes to run, and sometimes to pull forwards, backwards, sideways, and
always with their senses keenly alert and their muscles strung up for instant action.

[Page 127] On that night Scott in no very cheerful frame of mind wrote: 'We cannot now be far
from our depôt, but then we do not exactly know where we are; there is not many days' food
left, and if this thick weather continues we shall probably not be able to find it.' And after
two more days of bad surface and thick weather he wrote again: 'There is no doubt we are approaching
a very critical time. The depôt is a very small spot on a very big ocean of snow; with luck
one might see it at a mile and a half or two miles, and fortune may direct our course within
this radius of it; but, on the other hand, it is impossible not to contemplate the ease with
which such a small spot can be missed.... The annoying thing is that one good clear sight of
the land would solve all our difficulties.'

At noon on January 13 the outlook was more hopeless than ever. Three hours' incessant labour
had gained only three-quarters of a mile, and consequently they had to halt though their food-bag
was a mere trifle to lift, and they could have finished all that remained in it at one sitting
and still have been hungry. But later on Scott caught a glimpse of the sun in the tent, and
tumbled hastily out of his sleeping-bag in the hope of obtaining a meridional altitude; and
after getting the very best result he could under the very difficult conditions prevailing,
he casually lowered the telescope and swept it round the horizon. Suddenly a speck seemed to
flash by, and a vehement hope as suddenly arose. Then he brought the telescope slowly back,
and there it was again, and accompanied this [Page 128] time by two smaller specks on either
side of it. Without a shadow of doubt it was the depôt which meant the means of life to them.
'I sprang up and shouted, "Boys, there's the depôt." We are not a demonstrative party, but
I think we excused ourselves for the wild cheer that greeted this announcement.'

In five minutes everything was packed on the sledges, but though the work was as heavy as before
the workers were in a very different mood to tackle it. To reach those distant specks as quickly
as possible was their one desire and all minor troubles were forgotten as they marched, for
before them was the knowledge that they were going to have the fat hoosh which would once more
give them an internal sense of comfort. In two hours they were at the depôt, and there they
found everything as they had left it.

On that same morning they had stripped off the German silver from the runners of one of their
sledges, and now fortified by the fat hoosh of their dreams they completed the comparison between
the two sledges, which respectively had metal and wood runners. Having equalized the weights
as much as possible they towed the sledges round singly, and found that two of them could scarcely
move the metalled sledge as fast as one could drag the other.

Of course they decided to strip the second sledge, and with only about 130 miles to cover to
their next depôt, a full three weeks' provisions, and the prospect of better traveling on wood
runners, they went to bed [Page 129] feeling that a heavy load of anxiety had been lifted.
The chief cause of worry left was the question of health, and the result of a thorough medical
examination on the morning of the 14th did nothing to remove this. Shackleton was found to
be very far indeed from well, but although Scott and Wilson both showed symptoms of scurvy
they still felt that, as far as they were concerned, there was no danger of a breakdown.

On that day they made a fairly good march, but at the end of it Wilson had to warn Scott that
Shackleton's condition was really alarming. Commenting on this Scott wrote: 'It's a bad case,
but we must make the best of it and trust to its not getting worse; now that human life is
at stake, all other objects must be sacrificed.... It went to my heart to give the order, but
it had to be done, and the dogs are to be killed in the morning.

'One of the difficulties we foresee with Shackleton, with his restless, energetic spirit, is
to keep him idle in camp, so to-night I have talked seriously to him. He is not to do any camping
work, but to allow everything to be done for him.... Every effort must be devoted to keeping
him on his legs, and we must trust to luck to bring him through.'

With the morning of the 15th came the last scene in the tragic story of the dogs, and poor
Nigger and Jim, the only survivors of that team of nineteen, were taken a short distance from
the camp and killed. 'I think we could all have wept.... Through our most troublous time we
always looked forward to getting [Page 130] some of our animals home. At first it was to have
been nine, then seven, then five, and at the last we thought that surely we should be able
to bring back these two.'

During the part of the return journey which was now beginning, they had promised themselves
an easier time, but instead of that it resolved itself into days of grim struggle to save a
sick companion. The weather also added to their troubles, because it was so overcast that steering
was extremely difficult. For nearly ten consecutive days this gloomy weather continued to harass
them, but on the 20th it cleared as they were on their march, and on the following day with
a brisk southerly breeze and their sail set they traveled along at a fine rate. The state of
Shackleton's health was still a source of acutest anxiety, but each march brought safety nearer
and nearer, and on the 23rd Scott was able to write in a much more hopeful spirit. Next day
a glimpse of the Bluff to the north was seen, but this encouraging sight was accompanied by
a new form of surface which made the pulling very wearisome. An inch or so beneath the soft
snow surface was a thin crust, almost, but not quite, sufficient to bear their weight. The
work of breaking such a surface as this would, Scott says, have finished Shackleton in no time,
but luckily he was able to go on ski and avoid the jars. 'In spite of our present disbelief
in ski, one is bound to confess that if we get back safely Shackleton will owe much to the
pair he is now using.'

[Page 131] But in spite of bad surfaces and increasingly heavy work, Scott and Wilson were
determined to leave as little as possible to chance, and to get their invalid along as quickly
as his condition would allow. Directly breakfast was over Shackleton started off and got well
ahead, while Scott and Wilson packed up camp; and after lunch the same procedure was adopted.
By this means he was able to take things easily, and though eager to do his share of the work
he was wise enough to see that every precaution taken was absolutely necessary.

Encouragements in this stern struggle were few and far between, but when the smoke of Erebus
was seen on the 25th, it cheered them to think that they had seen something that was actually
beyond the ship. Probably it was more than a hundred miles away, but they had become so accustomed
to seeing things at a distance that they were not in the least astonished by this.

January 26, too, had its consolations, for while plodding on as usual the travelers suddenly
saw a white line ahead, and soon afterwards discovered that it was a sledge track. There was
no doubt that the track was Barne's on his way back from his survey work to the west, but it
was wonderful what that track told them. They could see that there had been six men with two
sledges, and that all of the former had been going strong and well on ski. From the state of
the track this party had evidently passed about four days before on the homeward route, and
from [Page 132] the zig-zagging of the course it was agreed that the weather must have been
thick at the time. Every imprint in the soft snow added some small fact, and the whole made
an excellent detective study. But the main point was that they knew for certain that Barne
and his party were safe, and this after their own experiences was a great relief.

Another day and a half of labour brought them to the depôt, and the land of plenty. 'Directly,'
Scott wrote on the 28th, 'our tent was up we started our search among the snow-heaps with childish
glee. One after another our treasures were brought forth: oil enough for the most lavish expenditure,
biscuit that might have lasted us for a month, and, finally, a large brown provision-bag which
we knew would contain more than food alone. We have just opened this provision-bag and feasted
our eyes on the contents. There are two tins of sardines, a large tin of marmalade, soup squares,
pea soup, and many other delights that already make our mouths water. For each one of us there
is some special trifle which the forethought of our kind people has provided, mine being an
extra packet of tobacco; and last, but not least, there are a whole heap of folded letters
and notes--billets-doux indeed. I wonder if a mail was ever more acceptable.'

The news, too, was good; Royds, after desperate labour, had succeeded in rescuing the boats;
Blissett had discovered an Emperor penguin's egg, and his messmates expected him to be knighted.
But the meal itself, though 'pure joy' at first, was not an [Page 133] unqualified success,
for after being accustomed to starvation or semi-starvation rations, they were in no condition
either to resist or to digest any unstinted meal, and both Scott and Wilson suffered acutely.

On the next morning they awoke to find a heavy blizzard, and the first thought of pushing on
at all hazards was abandoned when Shackleton was found to be extremely ill. Everything now
depended upon the weather, for should the blizzard continue Scott doubted if Shackleton would
even be well enough to be carried on the sledge. 'It is a great disappointment; last night
we thought ourselves out of the wood with all our troubles behind us, and to-night matters
seem worse than ever. Luckily Wilson and I are pretty fit, and we have lots of food.' By great
luck the weather cleared on the morning of the 30th, and as Shackleton after a very bad night
revived a little it was felt that the only chance was to go on. 'At last he was got away, and
we watched him almost tottering along with frequent painful halts. Re-sorting our provisions,
in half an hour we had packed our camp, set our sail, and started with the sledges. It was
not long before we caught our invalid, who was so exhausted that we thought it wiser he should
sit on the sledges, where for the remainder of the forenoon, with the help of our sail, we
carried him.'

In Wilson's opinion Shackleton's relapse was mainly due to the blizzard, but fortune favored
them during the last stages of the struggle homewards, and the glorious weather had a wonderful
effect upon the [Page 134] sick man. By the night of February 2 they were within ten or twelve
miles of their goal, and saw a prospect of a successful end to their troubles. During the afternoon
they had passed round the corner of White Island, and as they did so the old familiar outline
of the friendly peninsula suddenly opened up before them. On every side were suggestions of
home, and their joy at seeing the well-known landmarks was increased by the fact that they
were as nearly 'spent as three persons can well be.'

Shackleton, it is true, had lately shown an improvement, but his companions placed but little
confidence in that, for they knew how near he had been, and still was, to a total collapse.
And both Scott and Wilson knew also that their scurvy had again been advancing rapidly, but
they scarcely dared to admit either to themselves or each other how 'done' they were. For many
a day Wilson had suffered from lameness, and each morning had vainly tried to disguise his
limp, but from his set face Scott knew well enough how much he suffered before the first stiffness
wore off. 'As for myself, for some time I have hurried through the task of changing my foot-gear
in an attempt to forget that my ankles are considerably swollen. One and all we want rest and
peace, and, all being well, tomorrow, thank Heaven, we shall get them.'

These are the final words written in Scott's sledge-diary during this remarkable journey, for
on the next morning they packed up their camp for the last time and set their faces towards
Observation Hill. [Page 135] Brilliant weather still continued, and after plodding on for some
hours two specks appeared, which at first were thought to be penguins, but presently were seen
to be men hurrying towards them. Early in the morning they had been reported by watchers on
the hills, and Skelton and Bernacchi had hastened out to meet them.

Then the tent was put up, and while cocoa was made they listened to a ceaseless stream of news,
for not only had all the other travelers returned safe and sound with many a tale to tell,
but the relief ship, the Morning, had also arrived and brought a whole year's news.

So during their last lunch and during the easy march that followed, they, gradually heard of
the events in the civilized world from December, 1901, to December, 1902, and these kept their
thoughts busy until they rounded the cape and once more saw their beloved ship.

Though still held fast in her icy prison the Discovery looked trim and neat, and to mark the
especial nature of the occasion a brave display of bunting floated gently in the breeze, while
as they approached, the side and the rigging were thronged with their cheering comrades.

With every want forestalled, and every trouble lifted from their shoulders by companions vying
with one another to attend to them, no welcome could have been more delightful, and yet at
the time it appeared unreal to their dull senses. 'It seemed too good to be true that all our
anxieties had so completely ended, [Page 136] and that rest for brain and limb was ours at
last.' For ninety-three days they had plodded over a vast snow-field and slept beneath the
fluttering canvas of a tent; during that time they had covered 960 statute miles; and if the
great results hoped for in the beginning had not been completely achieved, they knew at any
rate that they had striven and endured to the limit of their powers.

[Page 137] CHAPTER VII

A SECOND WINTER

  As cold waters to a thirsty soul,
  So is good news from a far country.
    PROVERBS.

In a very short time Scott discovered that the sledding resources of the ship had been used
to their fullest extent during his absence, and that parties had been going and coming and
ever adding to the collection of knowledge.

On November 2 Royds had gone again to Cape Crozier to see how the Emperor penguins were faring,
and in the meantime such rapid progress had been made in the preparations for the western party
that November 9, being King Edward's birthday, was proclaimed a general holiday and given up
to the eagerly anticipated athletic sports.

Of all the events perhaps the keenest interest was shown in the toboggan race, for which the
men entered in pairs. Each couple had to provide their own toboggan, subject to the rule that
no sledge, or part of a sledge, and no ski should be used. The start was high up the hillside,
and as the time for it approached the [Page 138] queerest lot of toboggans gradually collected.
The greater number were roughly made from old boxes and cask staves, but something of a sensation
was caused when the canny Scottish carpenter's mate arrived with a far more pretentious article,
though built from the same material. In secret he had devoted himself to making what was really
a very passable sledge, and when he and his companion secured themselves to this dark horse,
the result of the race was considered a foregone conclusion. But soon after the start it was
seen that this couple had laboured in vain; for although they shot ahead at first, their speed
was so great that they could not control their machine. In a moment they were rolling head-over-heels
in clouds of snow, and while the hare was thus amusing itself a tortoise slid past and won
the race.

By the end of November everything was ready for the western journey, and a formidable party
set out on the 29th to cross McMurdo Sound and attack the mainland. In Armitage's own party
were Skelton and ten men, while the supports consisted of Koettlitz, Ferrar, Dellbridge and
six men. Excellent pioneer work was done by Armitage and his party during their seven weeks'
journey. Without a doubt a practicable road to the interior was discovered and traversed, and
the barrier of mountains that had seemed so formidable an obstruction from the ship was conquered.
It was equally certain that the party could claim to be the first to set foot on the interior
of Victoria Land but they had been forced to turn back at an extremely [Page 139] interesting
point, and in consequence were unable to supply very definite information with regard to the
ice-cap. They had, however, fulfilled their main object, and in doing so had disclosed problems
that caused the deepest interest to be focussed upon the direction in which they had traveled.

Perhaps the most promising circumstance of all was that among the rock specimens brought back
were fragments of quartz-grits. These, with other observations, showed the strong probability
of the existence of sedimentary deposits which might be reached and examined, and which alone
could serve to reveal the geological history of this great southern continent. At all hazards
Scott determined that the geologist of the expedition must be given a chance to explore this
most interesting region.

The extensive preparations for the western journey had practically stripped the ship of sledge
equipment, and those who went out on shorter journeys were obliged to make the best of the
little that remained. This did not, however, balk their energies, and by resorting to all kinds
of shifts and devices they made many useful expeditions.

While these efforts at exploration were being carried out the ship was left in the charge of
Royds, who employed everyone on board in the most important task of freeing the boats. Drastic
measures had to be taken before they could be released from their beds of ice, and with sawing
and blasting going on in the unseen depths, it was not possible [Page 140] that the task could
be accomplished without doing considerable damage. When at length all of them had been brought
to the surface their condition was exceedingly dilapidated; indeed only two of them were in
a condition to float; but although it was evident that the carpenter would be busy for many
weeks before they would be seaworthy, their reappearance was a tremendous relief.

Long before his departure to the south, Scott had given instructions that the Discovery should
be prepared for sea by the end of January. Consequently, after the boats had been freed, there
was still plenty of employment for everybody, since 'preparations for sea' under such circumstances
meant a most prodigious amount of labour. Tons and tons of snow had to be dug out from the
deck with pick-axes and shoveled over the side; aloft, sails and ropes had to be looked to,
the running-gear to be re-rove, and everything got ready for handling the ship under sail;
many things that had been displaced or landed near the shore-station had to be brought on board
and secured in position; thirty tons of ice had to be fetched, melted, and run into the boilers;
below, steam-pipes had to be rejointed, glands re-packed, engines turned by hand, and steam
raised to see that all was in working order.

Not doubting that the ice would soon break up and release the ship, this work was carried on
so vigorously that when the southern travelers returned all was ready for them to put to sea again.

[Page 141] But eleven days before Scott and his companions struggled back to safety the great
event of the season had happened in the arrival of the Morning. How the funds were raised by
means of which this ship was sent is a tale in itself; briefly, however, it was due to the
untiring zeal and singleness of purpose shown by Sir Clements Markham that the Morning, commanded
by Lieutenant William Colbeck, R.N.R., was able to leave the London Docks on July 9, 1902.

Long before the Discovery had left New Zealand the idea of a relief ship had been discussed,
and although Scott saw great difficulties in the way, he also felt quite confident that if
the thing was to be done Sir Clements was the man to do it. Obviously then it was desirable
to leave as much information as possible on the track, and the relief ship was to try and pick
up clues at the places where Scott had said that he would attempt to leave them. These places
were Cape Adare, Possession Islands, Coulman Island, Wood Bay, Franklin Island and Cape Crozier.

On January 8 a landing was effected at Cape Adare, and there Colbeck heard of the Discovery's
safe arrival in the south. The Possession Islands were drawn blank, because Scott had not been
able to land there, and south of this the whole coast was so thickly packed that the Morning
could not approach either Coulman Island or Wood Bay.

Franklin Island was visited on January 14, but [Page 142] without result; and owing to the
quantities of pack ice it was not until four days later that a landing was made at Cape Crozier.
Colbeck himself joined the landing party, and after spending several hours in fruitless search,
he was just giving up the hunt and beginning despondently to wonder what he had better do next,
when suddenly a small post was seen on the horizon. A rush was made for it, and in a few minutes
Colbeck knew that he had only to steer into the mysterious depths of McMurdo Sound to find
the Discovery, and practically to accomplish the work he had set out to do.

On board the Discovery the idea had steadily grown that a relief ship would come. For no very
clear reason the men had begun to look upon it as a certainty, and during the latter part of
January it was not uncommon for wild rumors to be spread that smoke had been seen to the north.
Such reports, therefore, were generally received without much excitement, but when a messenger
ran down the hill on the night of the 23rd to say that there was actually a ship in sight the
enthusiasm was intense. Only the most imperturbable of those on board could sleep much during
that night, and early on the 24th a large party set out over the floe. The Morning was lying
some ten miles north of the Discovery, but it was far easier to see her than to reach her.
At last, however, the party, after various little adventures, stood safely on deck and received
the warmest of welcomes.

During the last week of January the weather was [Page 143] in its most glorious mood, and with
some of the treacherous thin ice breaking away the Morning was able to get a mile nearer. Parties
constantly passed to and fro between the two ships, and everyone--with unshaken confidence
that the Discovery would soon be free--gave themselves up to the delight of fresh companionship,
and the joy of good news from the home country. To this scene of festivity and cheeriness Scott,
Wilson and Shackleton returned on February 3, and though the last to open their letters they
had the satisfaction of knowing that the Morning had brought nothing but good news.

By a curious coincidence Colbeck chose the night of the Southern party's return to make his
first visit to the Discovery, and soon after Scott had come out of his delicious bath and was
reveling in the delight of clean clothes, he had the pleasure of welcoming him on board. 'In
those last weary marches over the barrier,' Scott says, 'I had little expected that the first
feast in our home quarters would be taken with strange faces gathered round our festive table,
but so it was, and I can well remember the look of astonishment that dawned on those faces
when we gradually displayed our power of absorbing food.'

But however difficult the appetites of the party were to appease, for a fortnight after they
had reached the ship their condition was very wretched. Shackleton at once went to bed, and
although he soon tried to be out and about again, the least exertion caused a return of his
breathlessness, and he still suffered from [Page 144] the violent fits of coughing that had
troubled him so much on the journey. With Wilson, who at one time had shown the least signs
of scurvy, the disease had increased so rapidly at the end that on his return he wisely decided
to go to bed, where he remained quietly for ten days. 'Wilson,' Scott wrote on February 16,
'is a very fine fellow, his pluck and go were everything on our southern journey; one felt
he wouldn't give in till he dropped.' And this collapse when he got back to the ship was in
itself a proof of the determination which must have upheld him during the last marches.

Scott, though the least affected of the three, was also by no means fit and well. Both his
legs were swollen and his gums were very uncomfortable, but in addition to these troubles he
was attacked by an overwhelming feeling of both physical and mental weariness. 'Many days passed,'
he says, 'before I could rouse myself from this slothful humour, and it was many weeks before
I had returned to a normally vigorous condition. It was probably this exceptionally relaxed
state of health that made me so slow to realize that the ice conditions were very different
from what they had been in the previous season.... The prospect of the ice about us remaining
fast throughout the season never once entered my head.' His diary, however, for the month shows
how he gradually awakened to the true state of affairs, and on February 13 he decided to begin
the transport of stores from the Morning to the Discovery, so that the former ship 'should
run no risk of being detained.' And on the 18th when [Page 145] he paid his first visit to
the Morning and found the journey 'an awful grind,' he had begun to wonder whether the floe
was ever going to break up.

A week later he was clearly alive to the situation. 'The Morning must go in less than a week,
and it seems now impossible that we shall be free by that time, though I still hope the break-up
may come after she has departed.' Some time previously he had decided that if they had to remain
the ship's company should be reduced, and on the 24th he had a talk with the men and told them
that he wished nobody to stop on board who was not willing. On the following day a list was
sent round for the names of those who wanted to go, and the result was curiously satisfactory--for
Scott had determined that eight men should go, and not only were there eight names on the list,
but they were also precisely those which Scott would have put there had he made the selection.
Shackleton also had to be told that he must go, as in his state of health Scott did not think
that any further hardships ought to be risked; but in his place Scott requisitioned Mulock
who by an extraordinary chance is just the very man we wanted. We have now an immense amount
of details for charts... and Mulock is excellent at this work and as keen as possible. It is
rather amusing, as he is the only person who is obviously longing for the ice to stop in, though
of course he doesn't say so. The other sporting characters are still giving ten to one that
it will go out, but I am bound to confess that I am not sanguine.'

[Page 146] The letter from which the last extract is taken was begun on February 16, and before
the end of the month all hope of the Discovery being able to leave with the Morning had been
abandoned. On March 2 nearly the whole of the Discovery's company were entertained on board
the Morning, and on the following day the relief ship slowly backed away from the ice-edge,
and in a few minutes she was turning to the north, with every rope and spar outlined against
the black northern sky. Cheer after cheer was raised as she gathered way, and long after she
had passed out of earshot the little band stood gazing at her receding hull, and wondering
when they too would be able to take the northern track.

In the Morning went a letter from Scott which shows that although in a sense disappointed by
the prospect of having to remain for another winter, both he and his companions were not by
any means dismayed. 'It is poor luck,' he wrote, 'as I was dead keen on getting a look round
C. North before making for home. However we all take it philosophically, and are perfectly
happy and contented on board, and shall have lots to do in winter, spring and summer. We will
have a jolly good try to free the ship next year, though I fear manual labour doesn't go far
with such terribly heavy ice as we have here; but this year we were of course unprepared, and
when we realized the situation it was too late to begin anything like extensive operations.
I can rely on every single man that remains in the ship and I gave them all the option of leaving...
[Page 147] the ship's company is now practically naval-officers and men--it is rather queer
when one looks back to the original gift of two officers.'

Referring to the Southern journey he says, 'We cut our food and fuel too fine.... I never knew
before what it was to be hungry; at times we were famished and had to tighten our belts nightly
before going to sleep. The others dreamt of food snatched away at the last moment, but this
didn't bother me so much.'

But characteristically the greater part of this long letter refers not to his own doings, but
to the admirable qualities of those who were with him. Wilson, Royds, Skelton, Hodgson, Barne
and Bernacchi are all referred to in terms of the warmest praise, and for the manner in which
Colbeck managed the relief expedition the greatest admiration is expressed. But in some way
or other Scott discovered good points in all the officers he mentioned, and if they were not
satisfactory in every way his object seemed to be rather to excuse than to blame them. He was,
however, unaffectedly glad to see the last of the cook, for the latter had shown himself far
more capable at talking than at cooking, and had related so many of his wonderful adventures
that one of the sailors reckoned that the sum total of these thrilling experiences must have
extended over a period of five hundred and ninety years--which, as the sailor said, was a fair
age even for a cook.

By March 14 even the most optimistic of the company were compelled to admit the certainty of
a second winter, and orders were given to prepare the [Page 148] ship for it. Compared with
the previous year the weather had been a great deal worse, for there had been more wind and
much lower temperatures, and under such conditions it was hopeless to go on expecting the ice
to break up. But it was not to be wondered at that they found themselves wondering what their
imprisonment meant. Was it the present summer or the last that was the exception? For them
this was the gravest question, since on the answer to it their chance of getting away next
year, or at all, depended.

While, however, the situation as regards the future was not altogether without anxiety, they
sturdily determined to make the best of the present. To ward off any chance of scurvy, it was
determined to keep rigidly to a fresh-meat routine throughout the winter, and consequently
a great number of seals and skuas had to be killed. At first the skua had been regarded as
unfit for human food, but Skelton on a sledding trip had caught one in a noose and promptly
put it into the pot. And the result was so satisfactory that the skua at once began to figure
prominently on the menu. They had, however, to deplore the absence of penguins from their winter
diet, because none had been seen near the ship for a long time.

On Wednesday, April 24, the sun departed, but Scott remarks upon this rather dismal fact with
the greatest cheerfulness: 'It would be agreeable to know what is going to happen next year,
but otherwise we have no wants. Our routine goes like clock-work; [Page 149] we eat, sleep,
work and play at regular hours, and are never in lack of employment. Hockey, I fear, must soon
cease for lack of light, but it has been a great diversion, although not unattended with risks,
for yesterday I captured a black eye from a ball furiously driven by Royds.'

Of the months that followed little need be said, except that Scott's anticipations were fully
realized. In fact the winter passed by without a hitch, and their second mid-winter day found
them even more cheerful than their first. Hodgson continued to work away with his fish-traps,
tow-nets and dredging; Mulock, who had been trained as a surveyor and had great natural abilities
for the work, was most useful, first in collecting and re-marking all the observations, and
later on in constructing temporary charts; while Barne generally vanished after breakfast and
spent many a day at his distant sounding holes.

Throughout the season the routine of scientific observations was carried out in the same manner
as in the previous year, while many new details were added; and so engaged was everyone in
serviceable work that when the second long Polar night ended, Scott was able to write: 'I do
not think there is a soul on board the Discovery who would say that it has been a hardship....
All thoughts are turned towards the work that lies before us, and it would be difficult to
be blind to the possible extent of its usefulness. Each day has brought it more home to us
how little we know and how much there is to be learned, and we [Page 150] realize fully that
this second year's work may more than double the value of our observations.

During the second winter much time and attention had to be given to the sledge equipment, for
there was scarcely an article in it that did not need to be thoroughly overhauled and refitted.
But in spite of all their efforts, the outfit for the coming season was bound to be a tattered
and makeshift affair. Skins of an inferior quality had to be used for sleeping-bags; the tents
were blackened with use, threadbare in texture, and patched in many places; the cooking apparatus
was considerably the worse for wear; the wind clothes were almost worn out, while for all the
small bags, which were required for provisions, they were obliged to fall back on any sheets
and tablecloths that could be found. This state of things, however, was very far from daunting
their spirits, and long before the winter was over the plan of campaign for the next season
had been drawn up.

In making the program Scott knew that extended [Page 152] journeys could only be made by properly
supported parties, and it was easy to see that his small company would not be able to make
more than two supported journeys, though it might be just possible to make a third more or
less lengthy journey without support. The next thing to decide was in what direction these
parties should go, and in this connection the greatest interest undoubtedly lay in the west.
To explore the Ferrar Glacier from a geological point of view and find out the nature of the
interior ice-cap must, Scott determined, be attempted at all costs, and this journey to the
west he decided to lead himself.

In the south it was evident that without dogs no party could hope to get beyond the point already
reached. But Scott's journey had been made a long way from land, and consequently had left
many problems unsolved, chief among which were the extraordinary straits that had appeared
to run through the mountain ranges without rising in level. It was therefore with the main
object of exploring one of them that the second supported party, under the leadership of Barne
and Mulock, was to set out.

The credit in arranging the direction in which the unsupported party should go belongs to Bernacchi,
who was the first to ask Scott what proof they had that the barrier surface continued on a
level to the eastward; and when Scott began to consider this question, he discovered that there
was no definite proof, and decided that the only way to get it was to go and see.

[Page 153] Besides the longer journeys, the program included a number of shorter ones for specific
purposes, and the most important of these were the periodic visits to the Emperor penguin rookery,
as it was hoped that Wilson would be able to observe these birds from the beginning of their
breeding season.

Finally, one important factor was to dominate all the sledding arrangements, for although the
Discovery was mainly at the mercy of natural causes, Scott made up his mind that everything
man could do to free her from the ice should be done. As soon as they could hope to make any
impression upon the great ice-sheet around them, the whole force of the company was to set
to work at the task of extrication, and so all sledding journeys were to start in time to assure
their return to the ship by the middle of December.

On September 9 Scott got away with his own party of Skelton, Dailey, Evans, Lashly and Handsley,
their object being to find a new road to the Ferrar Glacier, and on it to place a depôt ready
for a greater effort over the ice-cap. The Ferrar Glacier descends gradually to the inlet,
which had been named New Harbor, but Armitage had reported most adversely on this inlet as
a route for sledges, and in conducting his own party had led it across the high foot-hills.
As yet Scott had not been to this region, but in the nature of things he could not help thinking
that some practical route must exist up the New Harbour inlet, and that if it could be found
the journey to the west would be much easier. And the result of this little journey [Page 154]
was really important, for whereas Armitage, at the foot of the Ferrar Glacier, had seen the
disturbance on the south side, and had concluded that it must extend right across, Scott's
party fortunately pushed over this disturbance and found much easier conditions beyond it.

The fact thus discovered, and which was amply supported by further observations, was that invariably
in the Antarctic regions where glaciers run more or less east and west, the south side will
be found to be much broken up and decayed, while the north side will be comparatively smooth
and even. The reason of this, of course, is simple enough, for the sun achieves its highest
altitude in the north, and consequently its warmest and most direct rays fall on the south
side of a valley. Here, therefore, the greater part of the summer melting takes place, and
a wild chaos of ice disturbance is caused.

Scott's party, by taking a different route, laid a depôt at a spot which Armitage had taken
three weeks to reach, and was back again at the ship in less than a fortnight.

'We were,' Scott says, 'inclined to be exceedingly self-satisfied; we had accomplished our
object with unexpected ease, we had done a record march, and we had endured record temperatures--at
least, we thought so, and thought also how pleasant it would be to tell these things in front
of a nice bright fire. As we approached the ship, however, Hodgson came out to greet us, and
his first question was, "What temperatures [Page 155] have you had?" We replied by complacently
quoting our array of minus fifties, but he quickly cut us short by remarking that we were not
in it.'

In fact during those few days there had been a very cold snap throughout the region. Barne's
party on the barrier, where they had been laying a depôt, had the coldest time, and after their
thermometer had fallen lower and lower its spirit-column broke at -67.7°. Royds and his party
also had to endure -62°, but in other respects they were in luck. For on arriving at Cape Crozier
they found that the Emperor penguins had already hatched out their young, and Wilson was delighted
to get the opportunity of studying the chicks at such a tender age. Commenting upon this and
another journey to Cape Crozier, Wilson wrote: 'The Emperor penguin stands nearly four feet
high, and weighs upward of eighty to ninety pounds.... I think the chickens hate their parents,
and when one watches the proceedings in a rookery it strikes one as not surprising. In the
first place there is about one chick to ten or twelve adults, and each adult has an overpowering
desire to "sit" on something. Both males and females want to nurse, and the result is that
when a chicken finds himself alone there is a rush on the part of a dozen unemployed to seize
him. Naturally he runs away, and dodges here and there till a six-stone Emperor falls on him,
and then begins a regular football scrimmage, in which each tries to hustle the other off,
and the end is too often disastrous to the chick.... I think it is not [Page 156] an exaggeration
to say that of the 77 per cent. that die no less than half are killed by kindness.'

From Cape Crozier Cross resolved to try to bring two chickens back to the ship, and by giving
up his sleeping jacket to keep them warm and tending them with the utmost care, he succeeded
in his attempt. But eventually they died from unnatural feeding, and Wilson says: 'Had we even
succeeded in bringing them to the age when they put on their feathers, I fear that the journey
home through the tropics would have proved too much for them, as we had no means of making
a cool place for them on the ship.'

September 21 brought with it a grievous disappointment, as on that day the nautical almanac
announced that nine-tenths of the sun would be obscured. For this event Bernacchi had made
the most careful preparations, and everyone was placed under his orders during the day. Telescopes
and the spectroscopic camera were trained in the right direction, magnetic instruments were
set to run at quick speed, and observers were told off to watch everything on which the absence
of sun could possibly have the smallest effect. Everything, in short, was ready except the
sun itself which obstinately refused to come out. 'There may,' Scott says, 'have been an eclipse
of the sun on September 21, 1903, as the almanac said, but we should none of us have liked
to swear to the fact.'

The next three weeks or so were spent in preparations for the long journeys, and on October
12 Scott [Page 157] left the ship with a party of twelve, and four 11-foot sledges. First came
his own party, which included Skelton, Feather, Evans, Lashly and Handsley; secondly there
was a small party for the geologist, Ferrar, who was accompanied by Kennar and Weller; and
thirdly there were the supports, consisting of Dailey, Williamson and Plumley.

Scott guessed rightly that in many respects this was going to be the hardest task he had yet
undertaken, but he knew also that experience would be a thing to be reckoned upon, and that
it would take a good deal to stop the determined men whom he had chosen. At the start their
loads were a little over 200 lbs. per man, but most of the party were by this time in thoroughly
good condition, and by hard marching they covered the forty-five miles to New Harbour and reached
the snow-cape early on the 14th.

This snow-cape in future was to be known as Butter Point, for here on their return journey
they could hope to obtain fresh seal-meat, and in preparation for this great event a tin of
butter was carried and left at the point for each party.

At first all went well with the travelers, and it was not until the evening of the 17th, when
they were camped amid indescribably beautiful scenery, that the first cloud of trouble arose.
Then Dailey the carpenter reported that the German silver had split under the runners of two
sledges, and this was a most serious blow; for although the wood runners were capable of running
on snow without protection, on [Page 158] hard, sharp ice, especially if the sledge was heavily
laden, they would be knocked to pieces in a very short time. It was, therefore, absolutely
necessary to protect the runners on this journey, but unfortunately the German silver protection
had already stood a season's work, and had worn thin without giving any outward sign.

From start to finish of the Ferrar Glacier about ninety miles of hard ice were to be expected,
and the problem that immediately arose was how to get the sledges over this without damage.

By lunch-time on the 18th they had achieved a height of over 6,000 feet, and by that time the
sledges were in such a parlous state that Scott had all of them unpacked and the runners turned
up for inspection. Horrid revelations followed; one sledge remained sound, and Scott promptly
decided that there was one course and only one to take, and that was to return to the ship
as fast as they could. Had two sledges been available the advance party might have struggled
on, but with one they could do nothing; so they left the sound sledge with everything else
except the half-week's provisions necessary to take them back, and on the following days they
'came as near flying as is possible with a sledge party.' On the morning of the 19th they had
eighty-seven miles to cover, and by 8.30 P.M. on the 21st they had reached the ship.

During this march Scott had determined to test his own party to the utmost, but seeing no necessity
[Page 159] for the supports to be dragged into this effort he told them to take their own time.
The supporting party, however, did not mean to be left behind if they could help it, and later
on the night of the 21st they also reached the ship. In the hard struggle of the last hours
some of the members of the supporting party, though determined not to give in, had been comically
astounded by the pace which was set, and Kennar, presumably referring to Scott, kept on repeating,
'If he can do it, I don't see why I can't: my legs are as long as his.

Five days after their flying return they were off again, and although the material for repairing
sledges was very scanty, one sound 11-foot sledge had been made and also a 7-foot one for Ferrar's
glacier work. Trouble, however, almost at once began with the runners, and on the 29th Ferrar's
sledge gave out and caused a long delay. But in spite of being held up by wind for two days,
they reached their depôt on November 1, and thought at first that everything was safe. On examination,
however, they discovered that a violent gale had forced open the lid of the instrument box,
and that several things were missing, among which Scott found to his dismay was the 'Hints
to Travelers.'

'The gravity of this blow,' he wrote in his diary on November 1, 'can scarcely be exaggerated;
but whilst I realized the blow I felt that nothing would induce me to return to the ship a
second time; I thought it fair, however, to put the case to the others, [Page 160] and I am,
as I expected, fortified by their willing consent to take the risks of pushing on.'

In traveling to the west, Scott expected to be--as indeed he was--out of sight of landmarks
for some weeks. In such a case as this the sledge-traveler is in precisely the same position
as a ship or a boat at sea: he can only obtain a knowledge of his whereabouts by observation
of the sun or stars, and with the help of these observations he finds his latitude and longitude,
but to do this a certain amount of data is required. 'Hints to Travelers' supplies these necessary
data, and it was on this book that Scott had been relying to help him to work out his sights
and fix accurately the position of his party. Unless he went back to the ship to make good
his loss, he was obliged to take the risk of marching into the unknown without knowing exactly
where he was or how he was to get back. 'If,' he says, 'the loss of our "Hints to Travelers"
did not lead us into serious trouble it caused me many a bad half-hour.'

Having, however, decided to push on, they wasted no time about it, and although the sledge-runners
continued to need constant attention they arrived at the base of the upper glacier reach on
the 2nd, and on the following day gained a height of 7,000 feet.

So far nothing exceptionally eventful had occurred, but November 4 was destined to begin a
time that Scott described afterwards as 'the most miserable week I have ever spent.' In the
morning of the 4th there was bright sunshine with a cold, increasing wind, [Page 161] but later
on the sun disappeared and the weather became very threatening. Still, however, they battled
on and were half-way up the bare, icy slope they were climbing, when the air became thick with
driving snow and the full force of the gale burst upon them. Pushing on at almost a run they
succeeded in reaching the top, and hurriedly started to search for a patch of snow on which
to camp, but nothing could be found except bare, blue ice. By this time the position was becoming
serious, all of them were frost-bitten in the face, and although the runners of the sledges
were split again so badly that they could barely pull them over the surface, they did not dare
to leave the sledges in the thick drift.

At last a white patch was seen and a rush was made for it, but the snow discovered was so ancient
and wind-swept that it was almost as hard as the ice itself. Nevertheless they knew it was
this or nothing, and Scott seized a shovel for his own tent-party, and dug for all he was worth
without making the least impression. At this moment Feather, the boatswain, luckily came to
help him, and being more expert with the shovel managed to chip out a few small blocks. Then
they tried to get up a tent, but again and again it and the poles were blown flat, and at least
an hour passed before the tents were erected. 'Nothing,' Scott wrote, 'but experience saved
us from disaster to-day, for I feel pretty confident that we could not have stood another hour
in the open.'

Little, however, did they expect when shelter [Page 162] was gained that a week would pass
before they could resume their march. From November 4-11 the gale raged unceasingly, and meanwhile
not a vision of the outer world came to them, for they were enveloped continuously in a thick
fog of driving snow.

In Scott's tent there was one book, Darwin's 'Cruise of the Beagle,' and first one and then
another would read this aloud, until frozen fingers prevented the pages from being turned over.
Only one piece of work were they able to perform, and this on the first day when, thinking
the storm would soon blow over, they hauled the sledges beneath one of the tents and stripped
the German silver ready for the onward march.

By the fifth day of their imprisonment sleep began to desert them, and Scott, realizing that
the long inactivity was telling on the health of the party, determined that whatever the conditions
might be he would try to start on the following morning.

This attempt, however, resulted in complete failure. In ten minutes both of Scott's hands were
'gone,' Skelton had three toes and the heel of one foot badly frost-bitten, and Feather lost
all feeling in both feet. 'Things are looking serious,' Scott wrote after this unsuccessful
effort to be up and doing, 'I fear the long spell of bad weather is telling on us. The cheerfulness
of the party is slowly waning; I heard the usual song from Lashly this morning, but it was
very short-lived and dolorous.... Something must be done to-morrow, but what it will be, to-morrow
only can show.'

Fortunately the next morning brought a lull in the [Page 163] storm, and though the air was
still as thick as a hedge it was possible at last to break away from 'Desolation Camp.' Then
Scott's party separated from Ferrar's, the former making for the ice-fall and eventually and
miraculously reaching the top without accident. On starting they could not see half-a-dozen
yards ahead, and at once went as nearly as possible into an enormous chasm; and when they began
to ascend they crossed numerous crevasses without waiting to see if the bridges would bear.
'I really believe that we were in a state when we none of us really cared much what happened;
our sole thought was to get away from that miserable spot.'

But during the succeeding days fortune was with them, and by the night of the 13th the fight
was won and the summit reached. With five weeks' provisions in hand, and the prospect of covering
many miles before a return to the glacier would be necessary, they were, as they camped at
the elevation of 8,900 feet, a very different party from the one which had struggled out of
'Desolation Camp' on the morning of the 11th.

But they had scarcely gained the summit of the icecap and started the journey to the west before
troubles again began to gather round them. The long stay in 'Desolation Camp' had covered their
sleeping-bags and night-jackets with ice, and with falling temperatures this ice had so little
chance to evaporate that camping arrangements were acutely uncomfortable; and as each night
the thermometer fell a little lower, [Page 164] the chance of relief from this state of things
could scarcely be said to exist. The wind, too, was a constant worry, for though it was not
very strong, when combined with the low temperature and rarefied air its effect was blighting.

'I do not think,' Scott wrote, 'that it would be possible to conceive a more cheerless prospect
than that which faced us at this time, when on this lofty, desolate plateau we turned our backs
upon the last mountain peak that could remind us of habitable lands. Yet before us lay the
unknown. What fascination lies in that word! Could anyone wonder that we determined to push
on, be the outlook ever so comfortless?'

So they plodded forward with all their strength, but in spite of every effort their progress
gradually became slower. By the 17th the sledges had been divided, Scott, Feather, and Evans
leading with one, while Skelton, Handsley, and Lashly followed with the other. But Scott found
very soon that the second sledge had great difficulty in keeping up, and that although he himself
felt thoroughly strong and well, some of his companions were beginning to fail. As was natural
with such men not one of them would own that he was exhausted, and in consequence it was only
by paying the keenest attention that he could detect those who from sheer incapacity were relaxing
their strain on the traces. And his position was not pleasant even when he knew, for to tell
any of these brave people that they must turn back was a most unenviable [Page 165] task. Thus
it came about that all six of them marched on, though Scott was sure that better progress would
have been made had the party been divided.

Something like a climax was reached on the 20th, when Handsley more or less broke down. Not
for a moment, however, did he mean to give up, and when he was relieved of some part of his
work he begged Scott not again to make an example of him. In Handsley's opinion his breakdown
was a disgrace, and no arguments would make him change it. Small wonder then that Scott wrote
in his diary: 'What children these men are, and yet what splendid children! The boatswain has
been suffering agonies from his back; he has been pulling just behind me, and in some sympathy
that comes through the traces I have got to know all about him, yet he has never uttered a
word of complaint, and when he knows my eye is on him he straightens up and pretends he is
just as fit as ever. What is one to do with such people?'

What Scott did was to try for another day to go on as before, but on November 22 he had to
tell Skelton, Feather, and Handsley that they must turn back, and though 'they could not disguise
their disappointment, they all seemed to understand that it had to be.'

From the date on which Scott reluctantly came to this decision, three weeks of the hardest
physical toil followed for him and his companions, Evans and Lashly. Nevertheless Scott looked
back upon this strenuous time with unmixed satisfaction, and paid a [Page 166] high tribute
of praise to his companions for their part in the successful work that was done.

'With these two men behind me,' he says, 'our sledge seemed to be a living thing, and the days
of slow progress were numbered.... Troubles and discomforts were many, and we could only guess
at the progress we made, but we knew that by sticking to our task we should have our reward
when our observations came to be worked out on board the ship.'

Regularly each night the temperature fell to -40° or below, while during the marching hours
it rarely rose much above -25°, and with this low temperature there was a constant wind. In
fact the wind was the plague of their lives and cut them to pieces. So cracked were their faces
that laughing hurt horribly, and the first half-hour of the morning march, before they were
warmed up to the work, was dreadful, as then all their sore places got frost-bitten. In short
the last week of their outward march was a searching test of endurance, but they had resolved
to march on until November 30, and in spite of the miserable conditions there was no turning
back before the month had ended.

Scott, however, was most undisguisedly glad when November 30 had come and gone. 'We have finished
our last outward march, thank heaven!

'We are all,' Scott wrote in his diary, 'very proud of our march out. I don't know where we
are, but I know we must be a long way to the west from my rough noon observation of the compass
variation.' But not for anything in the world did he want again to see the interior of Victoria
Land. Writing two years after this great march he says: 'For me the long month which we spent
on the Victoria Land summit remains as some vivid but evil dream. I have a memory of continuous
strain on mind and body, lightened only by the unfailing courage and cheerfulness of my companions.'

From first to last the month of November had been a struggle to penetrate into this barren,
deserted, wind-swept, piercingly cold, and fearfully monotonous region, and although on turning
homewards the travelers were relieved by having the wind at their backs, the time of trial
was by no means over. Only by utilizing all their powers of marching could they hope [Page
168] to retreat in safety from their position, and December opened with such overcast weather
that valuable time had to be spent in the tent. During the next few days, however, good marches
were made, until on December 9 everything changed abruptly for the worse.

On the afternoon of the 9th the surface became so abominably bad, that by pulling desperately
they could not get the sledge along at more than a mile an hour. Oil was growing short, and
in view of the future Scott had to propose that marching hours should be increased by one hour,
that they should use half allowance of oil, and that if they did not sight landmarks within
a couple of days their rations should be reduced. 'When I came to the cold lunch and fried
breakfast poor Evans' face fell; he evidently doesn't much believe in the virtue of food, unless
it is in the form of a hoosh and has some chance of sticking to one's ribs.'

Land was sighted on the 10th, 11th, and 12th, but the weather was as overcast as ever, and
Scott was still in dreadful uncertainty of their whereabouts, because he was unable to recognize
a single point. Ten hours' pulling per day was beginning to tell upon them, and although apart
from the increasing pangs of hunger there was no sign of sickness, Scott remarks, on the 12th,
that they were becoming 'gaunt shadows.'

During the morning of the 13th Evans' nose, which had been more or less frost-bitten for some
weeks, had an especially bad attack. His attitude [Page 169] to this unruly member was one
of comic forbearance, as though, while it scarcely belonged to him, he was more or less responsible
for it and so had to make excuses. On this occasion when told that it had 'gone,' he remarked
in a resigned tone, 'My poor old nose again; well, there, it's chronic!' By the time it had
been brought round a storm was blowing, and though they continued to march, the drift was so
thick that at any moment they might have walked over the edge of a precipice--a fitting prelude
to what, by general consent, was admitted to be the most adventurous day in their lives.

Prospects, when they started to march on the next morning, were at first a little brighter,
but soon a bitterly cold wind was blowing and high ice hummocks began to appear ahead of them.
In this predicament Scott realized that it was both rash to go forward, as the air was becoming
thick with snow-drift, and equally rash to stop, for if they had to spend another long spell
in a blizzard camp, starvation would soon be staring them in the face. So he asked Evans and
Lashly if they were ready to take the risk of going on, and promptly discovered that they were.
Then they marched straight for the ice disturbance, and as the surface became smoother and
the slope steeper their sledge began to overrun them. At this point Scott put Evans and Lashly
behind to hold the sledge back, while he continued in front to guide its course, and what happened
afterwards is described most graphically in the diary of the 15th.

[Page 170] 'Suddenly Lashly slipped, and in an instant he was sliding downward on his back;
directly the strain came on Evans, he too was thrown off his feet. It all happened in a moment,
and before I had time to look the sledge and the two men hurtled past me; I braced myself to
stop them, but might as well have attempted to hold an express train. With the first jerk I
was whipped off my legs, and we all three lay sprawling on our backs and flying downward with
an ever-increasing velocity. For some reason the first thought that flashed into my mind was
that someone would break a limb if he attempted to stop our mad career, and I shouted something
to this effect, but might as well have saved my breath. Then there came a sort of vague wonder
as to what would happen next, and in the midst of that I was conscious that we had ceased to
slide smoothly and were now bounding over a rougher incline, sometimes leaving it for several
yards at a time; my thought flew to broken limbs again, for I felt we could not stand much
of such bumping.

'At length we gave a huge leap into the air, and yet we traveled with such velocity that I
had not time to think before we came down with tremendous force on a gradual incline of rough,
hard, wind-swept snow. Its irregularities brought us to rest in a moment or two, and I staggered
to my feet in a dazed fashion, wondering what had happened.

'Then to my joy I saw the others also struggling to their legs, and in another moment I could
thank heaven that no limbs were broken. But we had by [Page 171] no means escaped scathless;
our legs now show one black bruise from knee to thigh, and Lashly was unfortunate enough to
land once on his back, which is bruised and very painful.... I, as the lightest, escaped the
easiest, yet before the two men crawled painfully to their feet their first question was to
ask if I had been hurt.

'As soon as I could pull myself together I looked round, and now to my astonishment I saw that
we were well on towards the entrance of our own glacier; ahead and on either side of us appeared
well-remembered landmarks, whilst behind, in the rough broken ice-wall over which we had fallen,
I now recognized at once the most elevated ice cascade of our valley....

'I cannot but think that this sudden revelation of our position was very wonderful. Half an
hour before we had been lost; I could not have told whether we were making for our own glacier
or any other, or whether we were ten or fifty miles from our depôt; it was more than a month
since we had seen any known landmark. Now in this extraordinary manner the curtain had been
raised... and down the valley we could see the high cliffs of the Depôt Nunatak where peace
and plenty awaited us.'

The sledge had not capsized until they all rolled over at the end, but the jolting had scattered
their belongings and broken open the biscuit box, with the result that they had no provisions
left, except the few scraps they could pick up and the meager contents of their food bag. As
quickly as stiffening limbs would [Page 172] allow they collected their scattered articles,
repacked the sledge and marched on towards the depôt. Before them lay a long plateau, at the
edge of which Scott knew that they would find a second cascade, and beneath it the region of
Desolation Camp and a more gradual icy surface down to the depôt.

Fortune favored them in descending the second cascade, and quite unsuspicious of any further
danger they joined up their harness to their usual positions in front of the sledge. This brought
Scott in the middle and a little in advance, with Lashly on his right and Evans on his left.
Presently the sledge began to skid, and Scott told Lashly to pull wide to steady it. Scarcely
had this order been obeyed when Scott and Evans stepped on nothing and disappeared, while Lashly
miraculously saved himself from following and sprang back with his whole weight on the trace.
The sledge flashed by him and jumped the crevasse down which Scott and Evans had gone, one
side of the sledge being cracked by the jerk but the other side mercifully holding. 'Personally,'
Scott says, 'I remember absolutely nothing until I found myself dangling at the end of my trace
with blue walls on either side and a very horrid looking gulf below; large ice-crystals dislodged
by our movements continued to shower down on our heads. As a first step I took off my goggles;
I then discovered that Evans was hanging just above me. I asked him if he was all right, and
received a reassuring reply in his calm, matter-of-fact tones.'

[Page 173] Then Scott began to grope about on every side with his cramponed feet, but not until
his struggles set him swinging did his leg suddenly strike a projection. At a glance he saw
that by raising himself he could get a foothold on this, and after a short struggle he stood
upon a thin shaft of ice, which was wedged providentially between the walls of the chasm, and
could look about him. To the right or left, above or below, there was not the vestige of another
such support, nothing, in fact, but the smooth walls of ice. The projection seemed to have
got there by a miracle, but miracle or not the thing to do was to help Evans, and when the
latter had slipped his harness well up beneath his arms Scott found that he could pilot his
feet to the bridge.

'All this had occupied some time, and it was only now that I realized what had happened above
us, for there, some twelve feet over our heads, was the outline of the broken sledge. I saw
at once what a frail support remained, and shouted to Lashly to ask what he could do, and then
I knew the value of such a level-headed companion; for whilst he held on grimly to the sledge
and us with one hand, his other was busily employed in withdrawing our ski. At length he succeeded
in sliding two of these beneath the broken sledge, and so making our support more secure.'

But clever as this device was it still left them without Lashly's active assistance, because
directly he relaxed his hold the sledge began to slip. The only [Page 174] possible course,
therefore, was for Scott and Evans to climb out unaided, and, after a word with Evans Scott
decided to try first; though he confessed afterwards that he never expected to reach the top.
Not for a longtime had he swarmed a rope, and to do so in thick clothing, heavy crampons, and
with frost-bitten fingers seemed to him impossible. Of the struggle that followed he remembered
little except that he got a rest when he could plant his foot in the belt of his own harness,
and again when his feet held on the rings of the belt. 'Then came a mighty effort, till I reached
the stirrup formed by the rope span of the sledge, and then, mustering all the strength that
remained, I reached the sledge itself and flung myself on to the snow beyond. Lashly said,
"Thank God!" and it was perhaps then that I realized that his position had been the worst of all.'

But having arrived at the top he was completely out of action for several minutes, for his
hands were white to the wrists, and not until their circulation came back could he get to work.
With two on top and only one below the position, however, was very different, and presently
Evans, badly frost-bitten, was landed on the surface. For a minute or two they could only stand
and look at one another. Then Evans said, 'Well, I'm blowed,' which was the first sign of surprise
he had shown.

By six o'clock on that same evening they reached their depôt, and passed from abject discomfort
to rest and peace. Bruised, sore and tired as they were, [Page 175] Lashly sang merrily as
he stirred the pot, while Scott and Evans sat on the sledge, shifted their foot-gear, spread
out their clothes to dry, and talked cheerily about the happenings of the day.

From this time onward their camp-life was wholly, pleasant, except to Lashly who had an attack
of snow-blindness. Apart from that they were in the best of condition for the hard marching
in front of them, and when on the night of the 20th they reached their second depôt and could
look out towards the sea, they did not care how far round they might have to walk if only that
stubborn sheet of ice had broken away. But it was too evident that their homeward track might
be as straight as they chose, as only in the far distance was open water to be seen, and with
sorrow they realized that there must still be many miles of ice between it and the Discovery.

Late on Christmas Eve they were once more on board the ship after an absence of fifty-nine
days, during which they had traveled 725 miles. Taking the eighty-one days of absence which
had constituted the whole sledding season, Scott, Evans and Lashly had covered 1,098 miles,
and, not including minor undulations, had climbed heights which totaled to 19,000 feet. On
getting back to the Discovery Scott found only Koettlitz, Handsley and Quartley on board, because
all the rest of the company had gone to the north to saw through the ice; and during the few
days of rest that he allowed himself before going to the sawing-camp, he was able to read the
reports of the [Page 176] officers who had led the other journeys, and to see what excellent
work had been done during his absence.

Ferrar's survey and Skelton's photographic work had added materially to the value of the western
journey; the party led by Barne and Mulock to the south had met with ill-fortune from the start,
but throughout the journey Mulock used the theodolite indefatigably, with the results that
this stretch of coast-line was more accurately plotted than any other part of Victoria Land,
and that the positions and height of over two hundred mountain peaks were fixed. Barne also
obtained a very good indication of the movement of the Great Barrier ice-sheet. During Royds'
journey, on which the party went on very short food allowance, Bernacchi took a most interesting
series of magnetic observations. And although to Bernacchi himself belongs the greatest credit,
some reflected glory, at any rate, fell upon his companions, because they had to stay shivering
outside the tent while he was at work inside it.

Wilson had not only been busy with the penguins at Cape Crozier, but had also made a complete
examination of the enormous and interesting pressure ridges which form the junction of the
Great Barrier ice-mass with the land, and subsequently had spent much time in studying the
windless area to the south of Ross Island. Also, with Armitage and Heald, he had made an excellent
little journey, on which Armitage obtained some very good photographs, [Page 177] sufficient
in themselves to prove the receding glacial conditions of the whole continent.

In short during Scott's absence his companions had been working strenuously to increase the
supply of information; so when the second sledding-season ended, they could with reason congratulate
themselves that the main part of their work was done.

[Page 178] CHAPTER X

RELEASE

                      And Thor
  Set his shoulder hard against the stern
  To push the ship through...
  ...and the water gurgled in
  And the ship floated on the waves and rock'd.
    M. ARNOLD.

After a few days on board Scott became restless to see what was going on in the sawing-camp,
and on the morning of the 31st he started off with Evans, Lashly and Handsley to march the
ten and a half miles to the north. When the instructions for this attempt to free the Discovery
were drawn up, there had been, of course, no telling how broad the ice-sheet would be when
operations began, and Scott had been obliged to assume that it would be nearly the same as
in the previous year, when the open water had extended to the Dellbridge Islets about eleven
miles from the ship. There he directed that the camp should be made, and Armitage, on whom
in Scott's absence the command had devolved, made all preparations in accordance with the instructions
he had received.

At the outset, however, a difficulty awaited him, [Page 179] as in the middle of December the
open water, instead of being up to the islets, ended at least ten miles farther to the north.
Under the circumstances he considered it dangerous to take the camp out to the ice-edge, and
so the sawing work had been begun in the middle of the ice-sheet instead of at its edge.

Thirty people were in the camp when Scott arrived, and though at first the work had been painful
both to arms and backs they were all in splendid condition and spirits. Fortunately this was
a land of plenty, penguins and seals abounded, and everyone agreed that, apart from the labour,
they were having a most enjoyable time, though no one imagined that the work would be useful.

In two days Scott was as convinced as anyone that the work must be in vain, and ordered the
sawing to stop. 'I have been much struck,' he wrote, 'by the way in which everyone has cheerfully
carried on this hopeless work until the order came to halt. There could have been no officer
or man among them who did not see from the first how utterly useless it was, and yet there
has been no faltering or complaint, simply because all have felt that, as the sailor expresses
it, "Them's the orders."'

With twenty miles of ice between the Discovery and freedom, the possibility of yet another
winter had to be considered, so although most of the company returned to the ship, Lashly,
Evans, Handsley and Clarke were left behind to make sure of an adequate stock of penguins.
And then Scott being unable [Page 180] to do any good by remaining in the ship started off
to the north with Wilson, the former being anxious to watch the ice-edge and see what chance
there was of a break-up, while Wilson wanted to study the life of that region. This journey
was to be 'a real picnic,' with no hard marching and plenty to eat; and, pursuing their leisurely
way, on January 4 they were within half a mile of the open water when Wilson suddenly said,
'There they are.' Then Scott looked round, and on the rocks of Cape Royds saw a red smudge
dotted with thousands of little black and white figures. Without doubt they had stumbled upon
a penguin rookery, but interesting as it was to have made the discovery, it was at the same
time exasperating to think of the feast of eggs they had missed in the last two years. During
the rest of the day they watched the penguins and the skua gulls which were nesting around
them; and before supper they took soap and towels down to a rill of thaw-water that ran within
a few yards of their tent, and washed in the warm sunlight. 'Then,' Scott says, 'we had a dish
of fried penguin's liver with seal kidneys; eaten straight out of the frying-pan, this was
simply delicious. I have come to the conclusion that life in the Antarctic Regions can be very
pleasant.'

Still in the proper picnic spirit they dawdled over their breakfast on the following day, and
were lazily discussing plans when Scott, looking through the open door of the tent to the clear
sea beyond, suddenly caught sight of a ship. In a moment haste and bustle reigned supreme,
and while they were searching for [Page 181] boots and other things necessary for the march,
Wilson said, 'Why, there's another,' and without any doubt two vessels were framed in the doorway.
It had at once been taken for granted that the first ship was the Morning, but what in the
name of fortune was the meaning of the other neither Scott nor Wilson could imagine. The easiest
and quickest way to find out was to go straight on board, for the ships were making for the
ice-edge some five miles to the westward, but if they had followed this simple plan their companions
on the Discovery would have known nothing about it, and would have been compelled to wait for
their mails. So they started southward to find the penguin hunters, and then to send them to
establish communications with the ship. For a long time no sight of the men could be seen,
but after traveling about six miles Scott and Wilson saw the tent, though without any signs
of life about it; indeed they were within a hundred yards before in answer to their shouts
four very satisfied figures emerged, still munching the remains of a meal. 'Of course,' Scott
says, 'I thought they had not seen the ships, but they had, only, as they explained, they didn't
see there was any cause for them to do anything in the matter. I said, "But, good heavens,
you want your mails, don't you?" "Oh, yes, sir," they replied, "but we thought that would be
all right." In other words, they as good as said that life was so extremely easy and pleasant
that there was no possible object in worrying over such a trifle as the arrival of a relief
expedition.' When, however, they [Page 182] had got their orders they were off at once, and
Scott and Wilson went back to the ships and soon found out from Colbeck why the Terra Nova
had accompanied the Morning, and how strangely the aspect of affairs had altered. Writing in
his diary on that night Scott says, 'I can only record that in spite of the good home news,
and in spite of the pleasure of seeing old friends again, I was happier last night than I am
to-night.'

Briefly the reasons for the sending of the two ships instead of one were these. Scott's report
taken by the Morning had left the strong impression that the relief ship must again be sent
to the south in 1903. The 'Morning' fund, however, was inadequate to meet the requirements
of another year, and there was not time enough to appeal to the public and to explain the full
necessities of the case. In these circumstances there was nothing for the Societies to do but
to appeal to the Government, and eventually the latter agreed to undertake the whole conduct
of the relief expedition, provided that the Morning, as she stood, was delivered over to them.
The Government naturally placed the management of affairs in the hands of the Admiralty, and
once having taken the responsibility it was felt that two ships must be sent, in order that
there should be no risk of the pledge being unfulfilled.

The Terra Nova, one of the finest of the whaling ships, was bought, and a whaling crew, under
the command of Captain Harry MacKay, was engaged to navigate her. Towards the end of November
1903 she layoff Hobart Town in Tasmania, and in [Page 183] December she was joined by the Morning,
Captain Colbeck being directed to take charge of this joint venture until both ships could
come under Scott's command.

Thus it happened that, much to every one's surprise, two ships arrived off the edge of the
fast ice on January 4, 1904. It was not, however, the arrival of the Terra Nova, whose captain
from the first was anxious to help in every way, but quite another matter that made Scott so
sad--and naturally sad--at this time.

In England the majority of those competent to judge the situation had formed the opinion that
the Discovery was stuck fast in the ice for all time. Whether the Admiralty held this opinion
or not is of no consequence, because in any case it was their duty to see that the expense
of another relief expedition should be avoided. Consequently there was no other course open
to them except to tell Scott to abandon the Discovery, if she could not be freed in time to
accompany the relief ships to the north. But necessary as this order was, it placed Scott and
his companions in a very cruel position. Under the most ordinary conditions a sailor would
go through much rather than abandon his ship, but the ties which bound Scott and his company
to the Discovery were very far beyond the ordinary; indeed they involved a depth of sentiment
not in the least surprising when their associations with her are remembered.

In spite of their long detention in the ice, the thought of leaving her had never entered their
heads. [Page 184] Some time she would be free again, and even if they had to spend a third
winter in her they had determined to go through with it, and make themselves as comfortable
as possible.

It was from this passably contented frame of mind that they were rudely awakened. Now they
were obliged to face the fact that unless a twenty-mile plain of ice broke up within six weeks,
they must bid a long farewell to their beloved ship and return to their homes as castaways.
So with the arrival of the relief ships there fell the first and last cloud of gloom which
was ever allowed on board the Discovery. And as day followed day with no improvement in the
ice conditions, the gloom deepened until anyone might easily have imagined that an Antarctic
expedition was a most dismal affair.

On January 10 Scott wrote: 'Reached the ship this morning, and this afternoon assembled all
hands on the mess-deck, where I told them exactly how matters stood. There was a stony silence.
I have not heard a laugh in the ship since I returned.'

For some time a flagstaff had been erected on Tent Islet, ten miles to the north, and a system
of signals had been arranged to notify any changes in the ice, but day after day the only signal
was 'No change in the ice conditions.'

On the 15th to relieve the weariness of waiting for something that did not happen, Scott arranged
that their collections and instruments should be transported to the relief ships. Whatever
the future held [Page 185] in store he saw no reason why this should not be done, and to have
anything at all to do during this trying time was a blessing; though he had by no means given
up hope that the Discovery would be freed.

After a long spell at Cape Royds camp, Wilson returned to the ship on the night of the 21st
with news that was all the more welcome at such an anxious time. Strolling over the beach one
day to inspect what he thought was a prodigiously large seal he saw that it was quite different
from any of the ordinary seals, and went back to the camp for his gun. Two of the Morning officers
were in camp with him, and all three of them proceeded to stalk this strange new beast. Their
great fear was that they might only succeed in wounding it and that it might escape into the
sea; so in spite of the temperature of the water they waded round it before they attacked.
These tactics were successful, but their quarry when dispatched was far too heavy for them
to move, or for Wilson to examine where it lay. On the following day, however, Colbeck came
over in the Morning, and with the aid of boats and ropes the carcass was landed on his decks.
Then Wilson came to the conclusion that the animal was a sea-elephant commonly found at Macquarie
Island, but never before seen within the Antarctic circle.

No change in the ice occurred until the 18th when some large pieces broke away, and by the
23rd Scott reckoned that the relief ships were four or five miles nearer than they had been
a fortnight before. But, [Page 186] if the conditions were to be as they had been two years
before, thirteen or fourteen miles of ice must go out in fifteen days, a far more rapid rate
than it had been going during the previous fortnight. On the 28th, however, the first sign
of real promise occurred, for the whole ice-sheet began to sway very slightly under the action
of a long swell, its edge against the land rising and falling as much as 18 inches. 'We are
all very restless, constantly dashing up the hill to the lookout station or wandering from
place to place to observe the effects of the swell. But it is long since we enjoyed such a
cheerful experience as we get on watching the loose pieces of ice jostling one another at Hut
Point.'

Days of hope and anxiety followed, until the 14th of February arrived and brought the best
of news with it. During the day nothing unusual happened, and it was not until Scott was at
dinner that the excitement began. Then he heard a shout on deck, and a voice sang out down
the hatchway, 'The ships are coming, sir!'

'There was no more dinner, and in a moment we were racing for Hut Point, where a glorious sight
met our view. The ice was breaking up right across the strait, and with a rapidity which we
had not thought possible. No sooner was one great floe borne away. Than a dark streak cut its
way into the solid sheet that remained and carved out another, to feed the broad stream of
pack which was hurrying away to the north-west.

'I have never witnessed a more impressive sight; [Page 187] the sun was low behind us, the
surface of the ice-sheet in front was intensely white, and in contrast the distant sea and
its forking leads looked almost black. The wind had fallen to a calm, and not a sound disturbed
the stillness about us. Yet, in the midst of this peaceful silence, was an awful unseen agency
rending that great ice-sheet as though it had been none but the thinnest paper.'

But fast as the ice was breaking, it was not fast enough for the relief ships. Evidently there
was a race between them to be the first to pass beyond the flagstaff round which the small
company of spectators had clustered; although the little Morning, with her bluff bows and weak
engines, could scarcely expect to hold her own against such a powerful competitor. By half-past
ten those on shore could see the splintering of the ice as the ships crashed into the floes,
and the shouts of the men as with wild excitement they cheered each fresh success, could be
distinctly heard.

Scarcely half a mile of ice remained and the contest became keener and keener. On came the
Terra Nova, but in spite of all her mighty efforts the persistent little Morning, dodging right
and left and seizing every chance opening, kept doggedly at her side, and still seemed to have
a chance of winning the race.

Meanwhile the spectators, in their nondescript tattered garments, stood breathlessly watching
this wonderful scene.

'For long intervals we remained almost spell-bound, and then a burst of frenzied cheering broke
out. It [Page 188] seemed to us almost too good to be real. By eleven o'clock all the thick
ice had vanished, and there remained only the thin area of decayed floe which has lately made
the approach to the ships so dangerous; a few minutes later the Terra Nova forged ahead and
came crashing into the open, to be followed almost immediately by her stout little companion,
and soon both ships were firmly anchored to all that remains of the Discovery's prison, the
wedge that still holds in our small bay....

'And so to-night the ships of our small fleet are lying almost side by side; a rope from the
Terra Nova is actually secured to the Discovery. Who could have thought it possible? Certainly
not we who have lived through the trying scenes of the last month.'

The small wedge of sea-ice that still remained in the bay was cracked in many places, and would
doubtless have departed of its own accord in a few days; but Scott, naturally impatient to
get away, decided to hasten matters by explosions. Consequently at 1 A.M. on February 16 there
was an explosion which shook the whole bay, and rudely disturbed not only the ice but also
the slumbers of those who were not members of the explosion party.

A few hours later another explosive charge was borne out, and when all was ready Scott pressed
the firing key. 'There was a thunderous report which shook the ship throughout, and then all
was calm again. For a brief moment one might have imagined that nothing had happened, but then
one saw that each [Page 189] crack was slowly widening; presently there came the gurgle of
water as it was sucked into our opening ice-bed, and in another minute there was a creaking
aft and our stern rose with a jump as the keel was freed from the ice which had held it down.
Then, as the great mass of ice on our port hand slowly glided out to sea, our good ship swung
gently round and lay peacefully riding to her anchors with the blue water lapping against her
sides.... Thus it was that the Discovery came to her own again--the right to ride the high seas.'

On that day it would have been impossible to find a prouder or happier ship's company, but
with all their feelings of elation they did not imagine that everything would run smoothly
after such a long period of disuse, and they knew also that much hard work lay in front of
them if they were to carry out the remainder of their program. If the Discovery was free before
the navigable season closed Scott had resolved to spend the remaining time in exploring the
region to the westward of Cape North, but now after two years' imprisonment coal was lacking
for such a scheme. Directly the relief ships had arrived he had asked them for as great a quantity
as possible, but although the replies had at first been satisfactory, a long month's fight
with wind and ice had sadly reduced the amount they could afford to give. The only thing to
do was to get without any delay what could be spared, and on the afternoon of the 16th the
Terra Nova came alongside to hand over her supply. 'The afternoon,' Scott says, 'was beautifully
calm and [Page 190] bright, and the weather seemed to smile peacefully on the termination of
our long and successful struggle with the ice.... We little guessed what lay before us.'

On the 15th a large wooden cross, bearing a simply carved inscription to the memory of poor
Vince, was erected on the summit of Hut Point, and on the following day the small company landed
together and stood bareheaded round this memorial, while Scott read some short prayers.

The water was oily calm and the sky threatening as they pulled back to the ship after paying
this last tribute of homage to their shipmate, but weather of this kind had been too common
to attract attention. On that night Captain MacKay was dining in the Discovery for the first
time, and a great effort had been made to show him how good an Antarctic feast could be. In
the middle of dinner, however, word came down to Scott that the wind had sprung up, and although
he expected nothing serious he went up to see what was happening. Then he saw they were in
for a stiff blow, and reluctantly had to inform his guests of the fact. One glance at the sky
satisfied MacKay, who was over the rail like a shot, and in a few minutes the Terra Nova was
steaming for the open and lost in the drift.'

Very soon both wind and sea had risen, but although Scott did not altogether like the look
of things and determined to get up steam as soon as possible, he did not want to hurry those
in the engine-room after such a long period of disuse. But early in the morning [Page 191]
of the 17th the situation became really dangerous, and the Discovery began to jerk at her cables
in the most alarming manner.

'I knew,' he wrote on the night of that eventful day, 'that in spite of our heavy anchor the
holding ground was poor, and I watched anxiously to see if the ship dragged.

'It came at last, just as Skelton sent a promise of steam in half an hour. The sea was again
breaking heavily on the ice-foot astern and I walked up and down wondering which was coming
first, the steam or this wave-beaten cliff. It was not a pleasant situation, as the distance
grew shorter every minute, until the spray of the breaking waves fell on our poop, and this
was soon followed by a tremendous blow as our stern struck the ice. We rebounded and struck
again, and our head was just beginning to falloff and the ship to get broadside on (heaven
knows what would have happened then) when steam was announced.'

Then the ship just held her own and only just; the engines alone would not send her to windward
in the teeth of the gale. Once around Hut Point, Scott knew that they would be safe with open
sea before them; and the end of the Point was only a quarter of a mile out, though off the
end there was a shallow patch which had to be cleared before safety could be reached. So finding
that no headway was being made he began to edge out towards the Point, and all seemed well
until, nearly opposite to the Point itself, he saw to his alarm that a strong current was sweeping
past.

[Page 192] 'Nothing remained but to make a dash for it, and I swung the helm over and steered
for the open. But the moment our bows entered the fast-running stream we were swung round like
a top, and the instant after we crashed head foremost onto the shoal and stopped dead with
our masts shivering. We were in the worst possible position, dead to windward of the bank with
wind, sea, and current all tending to set us faster ashore.

'We took the shore thus at about 11 A.M., and the hours that followed were truly the most dreadful
I have ever spent. Each moment the ship came down with a sickening thud which shook her from
stem to stern, and each thud seemed to show more plainly that, strong as was her build, she
could not long survive such awful blows.'

Hour after hour passed while the ship quivered and trembled and crashed again and again into
her rocky bed. Nothing more could be done for her until the gale abated, but seeing the impossibility
of doing anything at the time, Scott recognized that the next best thing was to be prepared
to act promptly when the weather moderated. Then he discovered once more how absolutely he
could rely on the support and intelligence of his companions. Skelton already had made a list
of weights by the removal of which the ship could be lightened, and when the boatswain was
summoned to discuss the manner in which the anchors could be laid out he also had his scheme
cut and dried.

The first sign of a lull came at 7 P.M., and soon after [Page 193] they assembled to the dreariest
dinner ever remembered in the Discovery. But when they were half-way through this silent meal
Mulock, the officer of the watch, suddenly burst in and said, 'The ship's working astern, sir.'

In record time Scott reached the bridge, and found that both wind and sea had dropped in the
most extraordinary manner. But what surprised him even more was that the current, which had
been running strongly to the north, had turned and was running with equal speed to the south.
Each time that the ship lifted on a wave she worked two or three inches astern, and though
she was still grinding heavily she no longer struck the bottom with such terrific force. Scarcely,
however, had these facts been observed when Skelton rushed up to say that the inlets were free
again.

'Every soul was on deck and in a moment they were massed together and running from side to
side in measured time. The telegraphs were put full speed astern; soon the engines began to
revolve, and the water foamed and frothed along the side. For a minute or two the ship seemed
to hesitate, but then there came a steady grating under the bottom, which gradually traveled
forward, and ceased as the ship, rolling heavily, slid gently into deep water.... Rarely, if
ever, can a ship have appeared in such an uncomfortable plight as ours to find herself free
and safe within the space of an hour.... To be in ten feet of water in a ship that draws fourteen
feet cannot be a pleasant position--nor can there be a doubt [Page 194] that the shocks which
the Discovery sustained would have very seriously damaged a less stoutly built vessel.'

None too soon were they clear of the shoal, for in a very short time the wind was again blowing
from the south; but as, on the 18th, the wind though still blowing strong had gone round to
the southeast and brought smoother water in the Sound, it was decided to make for the inlets
of the glacier tongue to the north, and complete the coaling operations.

On occasions when haste was necessary there was, by mutual consent, no distinction between
officers and men. And Scott mentions 'as a sight for the gods' the scene of biologists, vertebrate
zoologists, lieutenants, and A.B.'s with grimed faces and chafed hands working with all their
might on the coaling whips.

The Morning handed over twenty-five tons of coal, and this was all the more a generous gift
since it reduced Colbeck to the narrowest margin, and compelled him to return directly homeward
without joining in any attempt at further exploration. 'His practical common sense told him
he could be of little use to us, and with his usual loyalty he never hesitated to act for the
best, at whatever sacrifice to his own hopes and wishes.'

Before they left the glacier in McMurdo Sound it was arranged that the three ships should journey
up the coast together and then separate, the Morning proceeding to the north, while the Discovery
and the Terra Nova turned west. The companies of both relief [Page 195] ships, however, expressed
a strong desire to be with the Discovery when she entered her first civilized port; so Scott
fixed upon Port Ross, in the Auckland Islands, as a spot at which they might meet before the
final return to New Zealand.

February 20 saw the Discovery speeding along a stretch of coast that had been quite unknown
until she had two years previously made her way south along it, and at that time she had been
obliged to keep a long distance out on account of the pack-ice. But now gaps which had been
missed could be filled in; and even more than this was done, for Mulock remained on deck night
and day taking innumerable angles to peaks and headlands, while Wilson, equally indefatigable,
transferred this long panorama of mountain scenery to his sketch-book.

Two days later the pumps refused to act, and the whole of the engine-room staff were on duty
for twenty-four hours on end; and on the 24th the carpenter called attention to the rudder.
On inspection Scott saw that the solid oak rudder-head was completely shattered, and was held
together by little more than its weight; as the tiller was moved right or left the rudder followed
it, but with a lag of many degrees, so that the connection between the two was evidently insecure.
In such a condition it was obvious that they could not hope to weather a gale without losing
all control over the ship, and that no time was to be lost in shipping their spare rudder in
place of the damaged one. So Scott determined to seek shelter in Robertson [Page 196] Bay,
and by night the damaged rudder had been hoisted on deck and the spare one prepared for lowering
into its place. Since the Discovery had left winter quarters an almost incredible amount of
work had been done to bring her into sea trim. Difficulty after difficulty had arisen, but
the energy of the company had never slackened, and by February 25 Scott was able to say that
everything was once more in order, though he was a little doubtful about the steering power
of their spare rudder.

At this time it was all the more important that the ship should give no further trouble, because
according to their program they were about to penetrate a new region, and expected to find
quite enough to do without considering internal difficulties. With high hopes that steam power
would enable them to pass beyond the point reached by Sir James Ross in his sailing ships they
turned to the west, and at first all went well with them. Pack-ice, however, was destined to
be an insuperable obstacle to their advance, and on the 26th they decided to turn to the north-east
and try to find a way around this formidable barrier. 'It is grievously disappointing to find
the pack so far to the east; Ross carried the open water almost to Cape North.' And again on
March 1, Scott sounds a note of lamentation: 'There can be no doubt that since leaving Victoria
Land we have been skirting a continuous mass of pack, which must cover the whole sea south
of the Balleny Islands. That it should have lain so far to the eastward this year is very annoying;
[Page 197] however, if we can push on upon this course we ought to strike the islands.'

Early in the morning of the following day land was reported, and by noon they were abreast
of it; but what this island, and others that were dimly to be seen to the north, could be,
puzzled them considerably, and not until some time later was the problem solved. In 1839 Balleny
discovered a group of islands in this region, and three years later Ross saw land which he
imagined was to the southward of Balleny's discoveries, and believing it to be divided into
three distinct masses named it the Russell Islands. Consequently Scott arrived expecting to
see two groups of islands, and was naturally perplexed when only one group was to be seen.
After, however, studying the accounts of these islands and comparing them with what he could
actually see, he recognized that they had just passed Balleny's Sturge Island, which Balleny
had seen from the north, and so could have had no idea of its length in a north-and-south line.
Later Ross must have seen this same island, and, as Scott saw to be quite possible, from a
great distance must have thought that it was divided into three, and hence made the mistake
of naming it as a separate group. Fortunately Mulock was able to obtain sufficient bearings
to fix accurately the position of each island.

Now that the knotty question as to the geography of the Balleny Islands was settled, they went
on to look for the land that Wilkes claimed to have discovered in 1840, but not a glimpse nor
a vestige of it could they [Page 198] see; and, on March 4, they had to conclude that Wilkes
Land was once and for all definitely disposed of. With this negative, but nevertheless important,
result, the exploring work ended, and although a lack of coal had prevented their cherished
plan of rounding Cape North, they had at least the satisfaction of clearing up some geographical
misconceptions in a more northerly latitude.

From the 6th to the 14th continuous gales brought conditions of greater physical discomfort
than had ever been experienced on board the Discovery, for she was in very light trim and tossed
about the mountainous seas like a cork. It was, therefore, the greatest relief to furl their
sails off the entrance of Ross Harbour on the 15th, and to steam into the calm waters of the Bay.

Neither the Terra Nova nor the Morning had yet arrived, and the days of waiting were spent
in making their ship as smart as possible before the eyes of the multitude gazed upon her.
Thus, in a few days, the Discovery looked as though she had spent her adventurous years in
some peaceful harbor.

On March 19 the Terra Nova hove in sight, and was followed on the next day by the Morning.
Both ships had experienced the most terrible weather, and everyone on board the little Morning
declared that she had only been saved from disaster by the consummate seamanship of Captain
Colbeck.

A few days later the small fleet again set sail, and after a most favorable voyage was at daybreak
on April 1 [Page 199] off the Heads of Lyttelton Harbor; and before noon they were safely berthed
alongside the jetty, from which they had sailed with such hearty wishes more than two years before.

'New Zealand,' Scott said, 'welcomed us as its own, and showered on us a wealth of hospitality
and kindness which assuredly we can never forget, however difficult we may have found it to
express our thanks. In these delightful conditions, with everything that could make for perfect
rest and comfort, we abode for two full months before we set out on our last long voyage.'

June 8, however, found them at sea again, and a month or so later they anchored in Port Stanley
(Falkland Islands), where they replenished their stock of coal and took the last series of
magnetic observations in connection with their Southern Survey. And from the Falkland Islands,
Scott wrote a letter which is yet another testimony of the admiration he felt for his companions.
'The praise,' he wrote, 'for whatever success we have had is really due to the ship's company
as a whole rather than to individuals. That is not very clear, perhaps; what I mean is that
the combination of individual effort for the common good has achieved our results, and the
absence of any spirit of self-seeking. The motto throughout has been "share and share alike,"
and its most practical form lies, perhaps, in the fact that throughout our three years there
has been no distinction between the food served to officers and men.

[Page 200] 'Under these circumstances I naturally feel that I can claim no greater share of
achievement than those who have stood by me so loyally, and so I regard myself merely as the
lucky figure-head.

'But it is good news to hear that the Admiralty are sympathetic, for I feel that no effort
should be spared to gain their recognition of the splendid qualities displayed by officers
and men.'

Early on the morning of September 9 the homeland was sighted, and
for those who gazed longingly over the bulwarks and waited to welcome
and be welcomed, there was only one cloud to dim the joy of their
return. For with the happiness came also the sad thought that the
end had come to those ties, which had held together the small band
of the Discovery in the closest companionship and most unswerving
loyalty.
  Jan. 2, 1907, to Aug. 24, 1907   Albermarle (Flag Captain to
                                   Rear-Admiral Egerton, Rear-Admiral
                                   in the Atlantic Fleet).
  Aug. 25, 1907, to Jan. 24, 1908  Not actively employed afloat
                                   between these dates.
  Jan. 25, 1908, to May 29, 1908   Essex (Captain).
  May 30, 1908, to March 23, 1909  Bulwark (Flag Captain to
                                   Rear-Admiral Colville, Rear-Admiral
                                   the Nore Division, Home Fleet).

Then Naval Assistant to Second Sea Lord of the Admiralty. Appointed to H.M.S. President for
British Antarctic Expedition June 1, 1910.

[Page 207] On September 2, 1908, at Hampton Court Palace, Captain Scott was married to Kathleen,
daughter of the late Canon Lloyd Bruce. Peter Markham Scott was born on September 14, 1909.

On September 13, 1909, Captain Scott published his plans for the British Antarctic Expedition
of the following year, and his appeal resulted in £10,000 being collected as a nucleus fund.
Then the Government made a grant of £20,000, and grants followed from the Governments of Australia,
New Zealand, and South Africa.

Nine days after the plans were published arrangements were made
to purchase the steamship Terra Nova, the largest and strongest
of the old Scottish whalers. The original date chosen for sailing
was August 1, 1910, but owing to the united efforts of those engaged
upon the fitting out and stowing of the ship, she was able to leave
Cardiff on June 15. Business, however, prevented Captain Scott from
leaving England until a later date, and in consequence he sailed
in the Saxon to South Africa, and there awaited the arrival of
the Terra Nova.
  Denis G. Lillie          M.A., Biologist in Ship.
  William A. Horton        Eng. Rm. Art. 3rd Class, R.N. 2nd Engineer.
  Mortimer McCarthy        Able Seaman.
  William Knowles          Able Seaman.
  Charles Williams         Able Seaman.
  James Skelton            Able Seaman.
  William McDonald         Able Seaman.
  James Paton              Able Seaman.
  Robert Brissenden        Leading Stoker, R.N.
  Edward A. McKenzie       Leading Stoker, R.N.
  William Burton           Leading Stoker, R.N.
  Bernard J. Stone         Leading Stoker, R.N.
  Angus McDonald           Fireman.
  Thomas McGillon          Fireman.
  Charles Lammas           Fireman.
  W. H. Neale              Steward.

No sooner was it known that Scott intended to lead another Antarctic expedition than he was
besieged by men anxious to go with him. The selection of a small company from some eight thousand
volunteers was both a difficult and a delicate task, but the fact that the applications were
so numerous was at once a convincing proof of the interest shown in the expedition, and a decisive
answer to the dismal cry that the spirit of romance and adventure no longer exists in the British
race.

On June 15, 1910, the Terra Nova left Cardiff upon her great mission, and after a successful
voyage arrived, on October 28, at Lyttelton. There an enormous amount of work had to be done
before she could be ready to leave civilization, but as usual the kindness received in New
Zealand was 'beyond words.'

A month of strenuous labour followed, and then, on [Page 212] November 26, they said farewell
to Lyttelton, and after calling at Port Chalmers set out on Tuesday, the 29th, upon the last
stage of their voyage. Two days later they encountered a stiff wind from the N. W. and a confused
sea. Perforce they had to be chained up, and although [Page 213] they were given as much protection
as possible, their position was far from pleasant. 'The group formed,' in Scott's opinion,
'a picture of wretched dejection: such a life is truly hard for these poor creatures.'

The wind freshened with great rapidity on Thursday evening, and very soon the ship was plunging
heavily and taking much water over the lee rail. These bags acted like battering rams, no lashings
could possibly have withstood them, and so the only remedy was to set to work and heave coal
sacks overboard and re-lash the cases. No sooner was some appearance of order restored than
another unusually heavy wave tore away the lashings, and the work had to be done allover again.

As the night wore on the sea and wind continued to rise, and the ship to plunge more and more.
But worse news was to follow, for in the early morning news came from the engine-room that
the pumps had choked, and that the water had risen over the gratings.

[Page 214] From that moment, about 4 A.M., the engine-room became the center of interest, but
in spite of every effort the water still gained.

The ship was very deeply-laden and was in considerable danger of becoming waterlogged, in which
condition anything might have happened. The hand pump produced nothing more than a dribble
and its suction could not be reached, for as the water crept higher it got in contact with
the boiler and eventually became so hot that no one could work at the suctions. On one [Page
215] occasion I was waist deep when standing on the rail of the poop.'

All that could be done for the time being was to organize the afterguard to work buckets, and
to keep the men steadily going on the choked hand-pumps, which practically amounted to an attempt
to bale out the ship! For a day and a night the string of buckets was passed up a line from
the engine-room; and while this arduous work was going on the officers and men sang chanteys,
and never for a moment lost their good spirits.

In the meantime an effort was made to get at the suction of the pumps; and by 10 P.M. on Friday
evening a hole in the engine-room bulkhead had been completed. Soon afterwards a good stream
of water came from the pump, and it was evident that the main difficulty had been overcome.
Slowly the water began to decrease in the engine-room, and by 4 A.M. on Saturday morning the
bucket-parties were able to stop their labours.

The losses caused by this gale were serious enough, but they might easily have been worse.
Besides the damage to the bulwarks of the ship, two ponies, one dog, ten tons of coal, sixty-five
gallons of petrol, and a case of biologists' spirit were lost. Another dog was washed away
with such force that his chain broke and he disappeared, but the next wave miraculously [Page
216] washed him back on board. In a few hours everyone was hopeful again, but anxiety on account
of the ponies remained. With the ship pitching heavily to a south-westerly swell, at least
two of these long-suffering animals looked sadly in need of a spell of rest, and Scott's earnest
prayer was that there might be no more gales. 'Another day,' Scott wrote on Tuesday, December
6, 'ought to put us beyond the reach of westerly gales'; but two days later the ship was once
more plunging against a stiff breeze and moderate sea, and his anxiety about the ponies was
greater than ever. The dogs, however, had recovered wonderfully from the effects of the great
gale, their greatest discomfort being that they were almost constantly wet.

During Friday, December 9, some very beautiful bergs were passed, the heights of which varied
from sixty to eighty feet. Good progress was made during this day, but the ice streams thickened
as they advanced, and on either side of them fields of pack began to appear. Yet, after the
rough weather they had [Page 217] been having, the calm sea was a blessing even if the ice
had arrived before it was expected. Very carefully all the evidence of former voyages had been
examined so that the best meridian to go south on might be chosen, and the conclusion arrived
at was that the 178 W. was the best. They entered the pack more or less on this meridian, and
were rewarded by meeting worse conditions than any ship had ever experienced--worse, indeed,
than Scott imagined to be possible on any meridian which they might have chosen. But as very
little was known about the movements of the pack the difficulties of making a choice may very
easily be imagined, and, in spite of disappointments, Scott's opinion that the 178 W. was the
best meridian did not change. 'I have never thought of anything as good as this life. The novelty,
interest, colour, animal life, and good fellowship go to make up an almost ideal picnic just
at present,' one of the company wrote on that same day--an abundant proof that if delays came
they brought their compensations with them.

With rapid and complete changes of prospect they managed to progress--on the Monday--with much
bumping and occasional stoppages, but on the following day they were again firmly and tightly
wedged in the pack. To most of them, however, the novelty of the experience prevented any sense
of impatience, though to Scott the strain of waiting and wondering what he ought to do as regards
the question of coal was bound to be heavy.

This time of waiting was by no means wasted, for Gran gave hours of instruction in the use
of ski, and Meares took out some of the fattest dogs and exercised them with a sledge. Observations
were also constantly [Page 219] taken, while Wilson painted some delightful pictures and Ponting
took a number of beautiful photographs of the pack and bergs. And what to do under the circumstances
called for most difficult decisions. If the fires were let out it meant a dead loss of two
tons of coal when the boilers were again heated. But these two tons only covered a day under
banked fires, so that for anything longer than twenty-four hours it was a saving to put out
the fires. Thus at each stoppage Scott was called upon to decide how long it was likely to last.

Christmas Day came with the ice still surrounding the ship, but although the scene was 'altogether
too Christmassy,' a most merry evening was spent. For five hours the officers sat round the
table and sang lustily, each one of them having to contribute two songs to the entertainment.
'It is rather a surprising circumstance,' Scott remarks, 'that such an unmusical party should
be so keen on singing.'

Christmas, however, came and went without any immediate prospect of release, the only bright
side of this exasperating delay being that everyone was [Page 220] prepared to exert himself
to the utmost, quite regardless of the results of his labours. But on Wednesday, December 28,
the ponies, despite the unremitting care and attention that Oates gave to them, were the cause
of the gravest anxiety. 'These animals are now the great consideration, balanced as they are
against the coal expenditure.'

By this time, although the ice was still all around them, many of the floes were quite thin,
and even the heavier ice appeared to be breakable. So, after a consultation with Wilson, Scott
decided to raise steam, and two days later the ship was once more in the open sea.

From the 9th to the 30th they had been in the pack, and during this time 370 miles had been
covered in a direct line. Sixty-one tons[1] of coal had been used, an average of six miles
to the ton, and although these were not pleasant figures to contemplate, Scott considered that
under the exceptional conditions they might easily have been worse. For the ship herself he
had nothing but praise to give. Soon they passed a stream of ice over which the sea was breaking
heavily, and the danger of being among loose floes in such a sea was acutely realized. There
they lay to in a sort of ice bay, and from a dangerous position had achieved one that was safe
as long as their temporary shelter lasted.

As the day passed their protection, though still saving them from the heavy swell, gradually
diminished, but 1910 did not mean to depart without giving them an Old Year's gift and surprise.
During the voyage they had often discussed the idea of making their winter station at this
Cape, and the prospect had [Page 223] seemed to become increasingly fascinating the more they
talked of it.

But a great disappointment awaited them, for after one of the whale boats had been lowered
and Scott, Wilson, Griffith Taylor, Priestley, and E. R. Evans had been pulled towards the
shore, they discovered that the swell made it impossible for them to land.

'No good!! Alas! Cape Crozier with all its attractions is denied us.'

On the top of a floe they could see an old Emperor penguin molting and a young one shedding
its down. This was an age and stage of development of the Emperor chick of which they were
ignorant, but fortune decreed that this chick should be undisturbed. 'It was good to see them
again, and perhaps after all we are better this side of the Island. It gives one a homely feeling
to see such a familiar scene.' Scott's great wish now was to find a place for winter quarters
that would not easily be cut off from the Barrier, and a cape, which in the Discovery days
had been called 'the Skuary,' was chosen. A spot for the hut was chosen on a beach facing northwest
and well protected behind by numerous small hills; but the most favorable circumstance of all
in connection with this cape, which was re-christened Cape Evans, was the strong chance of
communication being established at an early date with Cape Armitage.[1] Not a moment was wasted,
and while Scott was [Page 226] on shore Campbell took the first steps towards landing the stores.

[Footnote 1: The extreme south point of the Island, 12 miles further, on one of whose minor
headlands, Hut Point, stood the Discovery hut.]

Fortunately the weather was gloriously calm and fine, and the landing began under the happiest
conditions. The chief trouble with the dogs was due to the fatuous conduct of the penguins,
the latter showing a devouring curiosity in the proceedings and a total disregard for their
own safety, with the result that a number of them were killed in spite of innumerable efforts
to teach the penguins to keep out of reach, they only squawked and ducked as much as to say,
'What's it got to do with you, you silly ass? Let us alone.' These incidents naturally demoralized
the dogs and annoyed Meares, who [Page 227] while trying to stop one sledge, fell into the
middle of the dogs and was carried along until they reached the penguins of their desire.

The motor sledges were running by the afternoon, Day managing one and Nelson the other. 'It
is early to call them a success, but they are certainly extremely promising.' Before night
the site for the hut was leveled, and the erecting party was encamped on shore in a large tent
with a supply of food for eight days. Nearly all the timber, &c., for the hut and a supply
of food for both ponies and dogs had also been landed.

Despite this most strenuous day's labour, all hands were up again at 5 A.M. on Thursday.

'Words cannot express the splendid way in which everyone works and gradually the work gets
organized. I was a little late on the scene this morning, and thereby witnessed a most extraordinary
scene. Infinite trouble had been taken to obtain [Page 229] the most suitable material for
Polar work, and the three motor sledge tractors were the outcome of experiments made at Lantaret
in France and at Lillehammer and Fefor in Norway, with sledges built by the Wolseley Motor
Company from suggestions offered principally by B. T. Hamilton, R. W. Skelton, and Scott himself.
With his rooted objection to cruelty in any shape or form, Scott had an intense, and almost
pathetic, desire that these sledges should be successful; over and over again he expressed
his hopes and fears of them.

With ponies, motor sledges, dogs, and men parties working hard, the transportation progressed
rapidly on the next two days, the only drawback being that the ice was beginning to get thin
in the cracks and on some of the floes. Under these circumstances the necessity for wasting
no time was evident, and so on the Sunday the third motor was got out and placed on the ice,
and Scott, leaving Campbell to find the best crossing for the motor, started for the shore
with a single man load.

Soon after the motor had been brought out Campbell ordered that it should be towed on to the
firm ice, because the ice near the ship was breaking up. And then, as they were trying to rush
the machine over the weak place, Williamson suddenly went through; and while he was being hauled
out the ice under the motor was seen to give, and slowly the machine went right through and
disappeared. The men made strenuous efforts to keep hold of the rope, but it cut through the
ice towards them with an increasing strain, [Page 230] and one after another they were obliged
to let go. Half a minute later nothing remained but a big hole, and one of the two best motors
was lying at the bottom of the sea.

The ice, too, was hourly becoming more dangerous, and it was clear that those who were on shore
were practically cut off from the ship. So in the evening Scott went to the ice-edge farther
to the north, and found a place where the ship could come and be near ice heavy enough for
sledding. Then he semaphored directions to Pennell, and on the following morning the ship worked
her way along the ice-edge to the spot that had been chosen.

A good solid road was formed right up to the ship, and again the
work of transportation went on with the greatest energy. In this
Bowers proved 'a perfect treasure,' there was not a single case
he did not know nor a single article on which he could not at once
place his hand, and every case as it came on shore was checked
by him.
  But brain and heart were the measure
    Of what every man might do.
      RENNELL RODD.

While the landing was being carried out, the building party had worked so rapidly that, if
necessity had arisen, the hut could have been inhabited by the 12th; at the same time another
small party had been engaged in making a cave in the ice which was to serve as a larder, and
this strenuous work continued until the cave was large enough to hold all the mutton, and a
considerable quantity of seal and penguin. Close to this larder Simpson and Wright were busy
in excavating for the differential magnetic hut.

In every way indeed such good progress had been made that Scott could begin to think about
the depôt journey. The arrangements of this he discussed with Bowers, to whose grasp of the
situation he gives the highest praise. Then he had a necessary but unpalatable task to perform,
because some of the ponies had not fulfilled expectations, and Campbell had to be told that
the two allotted to him must be exchanged for a pair of inferior animals. At this time the
party to be led by Campbell was known as the Eastern Party, but, owing to the impossibility
of landing on King [Page 233] Edward's Land, they were eventually taken to the north part of
Victoria Land, and thus came to be known as the Northern Party. Scott's reluctance to make
the alteration in ponies is evident, but in writing of it he says: 'He (Campbell) took it like
the gentleman he is, thoroughly appreciating the reason.'

On that same afternoon Scott and Meares took a sledge and nine dogs, some provisions, a cooker
and sleeping-bags, and started to Hut Point; but, on their arrival at the old Discovery hut,
a most unpleasant surprise awaited them, for to their chagrin they found that some of Shackleton's
party, who had used the hut for shelter, had left it in an uninhabitable state. The paint was
so fresh and the inscription so legible on the cross put up to the memory of Vince that it
looked as if it had just been erected, and although the old flagstaff was down it could with
very little trouble have been put up again. Late in the afternoon of Monday Scott and Meares
returned to Cape Evans, and on the following day the party took up their abode in the hut.
The walls and roof have double thickness of boarding and seaweed insulation on both sides of
the frames. The roof with all its coverings weighs six tons. The outer shell is wonderfully
solid therefore and the result is extraordinary comfort and warmth inside, whilst the total
weight is comparatively small. It amply repays the time and attention given to its planning.

'On the south side Bowers has built a long annex, to contain spare clothing and ready provisions,
on the north there is a solid stable to hold our fifteen ponies in the winter. At present these
animals are picketed on long lines laid on a patch of snow close by, above them, on a patch
of black sand and rock, the dogs extend in other long lines. Behind them again is a most convenient
slab of hard ice in which we have dug two caverns. The first is a larder now fully stocked
with seals, penguins, mutton, and beef. The other is devoted to science in the shape of differential
magnetic [Page 235] instruments which will keep a constant photographic record of magnetic
changes. Outside these caverns is another little hut for absolute magnetic observations, and
above them on a small hill, the dominant miniature peak of the immediate neighborhood, stand
the meteorological instruments and a flagstaff carrying the Union Jack.

'I have told you of the surroundings of our house but nothing of its internal arrangements.
They are in keeping with the dignity of the mansion.

'The officers (16) have two-thirds of the interior, the men (9) the remaining third; the dividing
line is fixed by a wall of cases containing things which suffer from being frozen.

'In the officers' quarters there is an immense dark room, and next it on one side a space devoted
to the physicist and his instruments, and on the other a space devoted to charts, chronometers
and instruments generally.

'I have a tiny half cabin of my own, next this Wilson and Evans have their beds. On the other
side is a space set apart for five beds, which are occupied by Meares, Oates, Atkinson, Garrard
and Bowers. Taylor, Debenham and Gran have another proportional space opposite. Nelson and
Day have a little cabin of their own with a bench. Lastly Simpson and Wright occupy beds bordering
the space set apart for their instruments and work. In the center is a 12-foot table with plenty
of room for passing behind its chairs....

