To charge such a creature with monstrosity during the period of its power is simply to expose
one's self to popular jeers. Having immense respect for majorities in this country, we only
venture obscurely to hint, that, of all arts, none before has ever been so threatening, curious,
and fascinating a monster as that of printing. We merely suggest the hypothesis, novel since
some centuries, that old Faustus and Gutenberg were as much inspired by the Evil One as they
have been fabled to be, when they carved out of a mountain of ore the instrument yclept type,
to completely exhaust the possibilities of which is of late announced as the sum of human destiny.
They lived under the hallucination of dawning literature, when printed books implied sacred
and classical perfection; and they could by no means have foreseen the royal folios of the
"New York Herald" and "Tribune," or the marvellous inanities about the past, present, and future,
which figure in an indescribable list of duodecimo fiction, theology, and popular science.

But there is nothing so useless as to protest against a universal fashion. Every epoch must
work out its own problem in its own way; and it may be that it is appointed unto mankind to
work through all possible mistakes as the condition of finally attaining the truth. The only
way is, to encourage the spirit of every age, to hurry on the climax. The practical reductio
ad absurdum and consequent explosion will soon accomplish themselves.

But a more palpable reason against protesting is, that literature in its different branches,
now as ever, commands the services of the finest minds. It is the literary character, of which
the elder Disraeli has written the natural history, which now as ever creates the books, the
magazines, the newspapers. That sanctified bookworm was the first to codify the laws, customs,
habits, and idiosyncrasies of literary men. He was the Justinian of the life of genius. He
wandered in abstraction through the deserted alcoves of libraries, studying and creating the
political economy of thought. What long diversities of character, what mysterious realms of
experience, what wild waywardness of heavenly endowments, what heroism of inward struggle,
what shyness towards society, what devotion to the beckoning ideal of art, what defeats and
what triumphs, what sufferings and joys, both in excess, were revealed by him, the great political
economist of genius! In his apostolic view, genius alone consecrated literature, and made a
literary life sacred. Genius was to him that peculiar and spontaneous devotion to letters which
made its possessor indifferent to everything else. For a man without this heavenly stamp to
engage in literature was simply for him to rush upon his fate, and become a public nuisance.
Literature in its very nature is precarious, and must be plucked from the brink of fate, from
the mouth of the dragon. The literary man runs the risk of being destroyed in a thousand ways.
He has no track laid, no instituted aids, no specified course of action. The machineries of
life are not for him. He enters into no one of the departments of human routine. He has no
relations with the course of the dull world; he is not quite a man, as the world goes, and
not at all an angel, as the celestials see. He must be his own motive, path, and guide, his
own priest, king, and law. The world may be his footstool, and may be his slough of despond,
but is never his final end. His aims are transcendental, his realm is art, his interests ideal,
his life divine, his destiny immortal. All the old theories of saintship are revived in him.
He is in the world, but not of it. Shadows of infinitude are his realities. He sees only the
starry universe, and the radiant depths of the soul. Martyrdom may desolate, but cannot terrify
him. If he be a genius, if his soul crave only his idea, and his body fare unconsciously well
on bread and water, then his lot is happy, and fortune can present no ills which will not shrink
before his burning eye. But if he be less than this, he is lost, the sport of devouring elements.
As he fights fate on the border of ruin, so much the more should he be animated by courage,
ambition, pride, purpose, and faith. To him literature is a high adventure, and impossible
as a profession. A profession is an instituted department of action, resting upon universal
and constant needs, and paying regular dividends. But the fine arts must in their nature be
lawless. Appointments cannot be made for them any more than for the thunder-storms which sweep
the sky. They die when they cease to be wild. Literary life, at its best, is a desperate play,
but it is with guineas, and not with coppers, to all who truly play it. Its elements would
not be finer, were they the golden and potent stars of alchemistic and astrological dreams.

Such was genius, and such was literature, in the representation of their first great lawgiver.
But the world has changed. The sad story of the calamities of authors need not be repeated.
We live in the age of authors triumphant. By swiftly succeeding and countless publications
they occupy the eye of the world, and achieve happiness before their death. The stratagems
of literature mark no longer a struggle between genius and the bailiffs. What was once a desperate
venture is now a lucrative business. What was once a martyrdom is now its own reward. What
once had saintly unearthliness is now a powerful motor among worldly interests. What was once
the fatality of genius is now the aspiration of fools. The people have turned to reading, and
have become a more liberal patron than even the Athenian State, monastic order, or noble lord.
No longer does the literary class wander about the streets, gingerbread in its coat-pockets,
and rhymes written on scraps of paper from the gutter in its waistcoat-pockets. No longer does
it unequally compete with clowns and jockeys for lordly recognition. No longer are the poet
and the fool court-rivals. No longer does it look forward to the jail as an occasional natural
resting-place and paradise. No longer must the author renounce the rank and robe of a gentleman
to fall from airy regions far below the mechanical artists to the level of clodhoppers, even
whose leaden existence was a less precarious matter. The order of scholars has ceased to be
mendicant, vagabond, and eremite. It no longer cultivates blossoms of the soul, but manufactures
objects of barter. Now is the happy literary epoch, when to be intellectual and omniscient
is the public and private duty of every man. To read newspapers by the billion and books by
the million is now the common law. We can conceive of Disraeli moaning that the Titan interests
of the earth have overthrown the celestial hierarchy,--that the realm of genius has been stormed
by worldly workers,--that literature, like the angels, has fallen from its first estate,--and
that authors, no longer the disinterested and suffering apostles, of art, have chosen rather
to bear the wand of power and luxury than to be inspired. We can imagine his horror at the
sacrilegious vulgarization of print, that people without taste rush into angelic metre, that
dunces and sages thrive together on the public indiscrimination. How would he marvel to see
literary reputations born, grow old, and die within a season, the owners thereof content to
be damned or forgotten eternally for a moment's incense or an equally fugitive shilling. Nectar
and ambrosia mean to them only meanness, larceny, sacrilege, and bread and butter.

And yet, notwithstanding the imaginary reproaches of our great literary church-father, the
most preciously endowed minds are still toiling in letters. The sad and tortured devotion of
genius still works itself out in them. Writing is now a marvellous craft and industry. The
books which last, the books of a season, the quarterlies, monthlies, weeklies, dailies, and
even the hourlies, are among the institutions of its fostering. Nor should that vehicle, partly
of intelligence, but chiefly of sentiment, the postal system, be unmentioned, which men and
women both patronize, each after their kind. Altogether, perhaps, in some way or other, seven-eighths
of the life of man is taken up by the Cadmean Art. The whole fair domain of learning belongs
to it; for nowhere now, in garden, grove, or Stoical Porch, with only the living voices of
man and Nature, do students acquaint themselves with the joyous solemnities, the mysterious
certainties of thought. The mind lives in a universe of type. There is no other art in which
so desperate adventures are made. Indeed, the normal mental state of the abundant writer is
a marvellous phenomenon. The literary faculty is born of the marriage of chronic desperation
with chronic trust. This may account in part for that peculiar condition of mind which is both
engendered and required by abundant writing. A bold abandon, a desperate guidance, a thoughtless
ratiocination, a mechanical swaying of rhetoric, are the grounds of dissertation. A pause for
a few days, a visit to the country, anything that would seem designed to restore the mind to
its normal state, destroys the faculty. The weary penman, who wishes his chaotic head could
be relieved by being transformed even as by Puck, knows that very whirling chaos is the condition
of his multitudinous periods. It seems as if some special sluices of the soul must be opened
to force the pen. One man, on returning to his desk from a four weeks' vacation, took up an
unfinished article which he had left, and marvelled that such writing should ever have proceeded
from him. He could hardly understand it, still less could he conceive of the mental process
by which he had once created it. That process was a sort of madness, and the discipline of
newspapers is inflicting it alike upon writers and readers. Demoralization is the result of
a life-long devotion to the maddening rumors of the day. It takes many a day to recall that
fierce caprice, as of an Oriental despot, with which he watches the tiger-fights of ideas,
and strikes off periods, as the tyrant strikes off heads.

And while no other art commands so universal homage, no other is so purely artificial, so absolutely
unsymbolical. The untutored mind sees nothing in a printed column. A library has no natural
impressiveness. It is not in the shape of anything in this world of infinite beauty. The barbarians
of Omri destroyed one without a qualm. They have occupied apartments in seraglios, but the
beauties have never feared them as rivals. Of all human employments, writing is the farthest
removed from any touch of Nature. It is at most a symbolism twice dead and buried. The poetry
in it lies back of a double hypothesis. Supposing the original sounds to have once been imitations
of the voices of Nature, those sounds have now run completely away from what they once represented;
and supposing that letters were once imitations of natural signs, they have long since lost
the resemblance, and have become independent entities. Whatever else is done by human artifice
has in it some relic of Nature, some touch of life. Painting copies to the eye, music charms
the ear, and all the useful arts have something of the aboriginal way of doing things about
them. Even speech has a living grace and power, by the play of the voice and eye, and by the
billowy flushes of the countenance. Mental energy culminates in its modulations, while the
finest physical features combine to make them a consummate work of art. But all the musical,
ocular, and facial beauties are absent from writing. The savage knows, or could quickly guess,
the use of the brush or chisel, the shuttle or locomotive, but not of the pen. Writing is the
only dead art, the only institute of either gods or men so artificial that the natural mind
can discover nothing significant in it.

For instance, take one of the disputed statements of the Nicene Creed, examine it by the nicest
powers of the senses, study it upwards, downwards, and crosswise, experiment to learn if it
has any mysterious chemical forces in it, consider its figures in relation to any astrological
positions, to any natural signs of whirlwinds, tempests, plagues, famine, or earthquakes, try
long to discover some hidden symbolism in it, and confess finally that no man unregenerate
to letters, by any a priori or empirical knowledge, could have at all suspected that a bit
of dirty parchment, with an ecclesiastical scrawl upon it, would have power to drive the currents
of history, inspire great national passions, and impel the wars and direct the ideas of an
epoch. The conflicts of the iconoclasts can be understood even by a child in its first meditations
over a picture-book; hieroglyphics may represent or suggest their objects by some natural association;
but the literary scrawl has a meaning only to the initiated. A book is the prince of witch-work.
Everything is contained in it; but even a superior intelligence would have to go to school
to get the key to its mysterious treasures.

And as the art is thus removed from Nature, so its devotees withdraw themselves from life.
Of no other class so truly as of writers can it be said that they sacrifice the real to the
ideal, life to fame. They conquer the world by renouncing it. Its fleeting pleasures, its enchantment
of business or listlessness, its social enjoyments, the vexations and health-giving bliss of
domestic life, and all wandering tastes, must be forsaken. A power which pierces, and an ambition
which enjoys the future, accepts the martyrdom of the present. They feel loneliness in their
own age, while with universal survey viewing the beacon-lights of history across the peaks
of generations. Their seat of life is the literary faculty, and they prune and torture themselves
only to maintain in this the highest intensity and capacity. They are in some sort rebels battling
against time, not the humble well-doer content simply to live and bless God. Between them and
living men there is the difference which exists between analytical and geometrical mathematics:
the former has to do with signs, the latter with realities. The former contains the laws of
the physical world, but a man may know and use them like an adept, and yet be ignorant of physics.
He may know all there is of algebra, without seeing that the universe is masked in it. The
signs would be not means, but ultimates to it. So a writer may never penetrate through the
veil of language to the realities behind,--may know only the mechanism, and not the spirit
of learning and literature. His mind is then skeleton-like,--his thought is the shadow of a shade.

And yet is not life greater than art? Why transform real ideas and sentiments into typographical
fossils? Why have we forgotten the theory of human life as a divine vegetation? Why not make
our hearts the focus of the lights which we strive to catch in books? Why should the wealthy
passivity of the Oriental genius be so little known among us? Why conceive of success only
as an outward fruit plucked by conscious struggle? Banish books, banish reading, and how much
time and strength would be improvised in which to benefit each other! We might become ourselves
embodiments of all the truth and beauty and goodness now stagnant in libraries, and might spread
their aroma through the social atmosphere. The dynamics would supplant the mechanics of the
soul. In the volume of life the literary man knows only the indexes; but he would then be introduced
to the radiant, fragrant, and buoyant contents, to the beauty and the mystery, to the great
passions and long contemplations. The eternal spicy breeze would transform the leaden atmosphere
of his thought. An outlaw of the universe for his sins, he would then be restored to the realities
of the heart and mind. He would then for the first time discover the difference between skill
and knowledge. Readers and writers would then be succeeded by human beings. The golden ante-Cadmean
age would come again. Literary sanctity having become a tradition, there would be an end of
its pretentious counterfeits. The alphabet, decrepit with its long and vast labors, would at
last be released. The whole army of writers would take their place among the curiosities of
history. The Alexandrian thaumaturgists, the Byzantine historians, the scholastic dialecticians,
the serial novelists, and the daily dissertationists, strung together, would make a glittering
chain of monomaniacs. Social life is a mutual joy; reading may be rarely indulged without danger
to sanity; but writing, unless the man have genius, is but creating new rubbish, the nucleus
of new deltas of obstruction, till the river of life shall lose its way to the ocean, and the
Infinite be shut out altogether. The old bibliopole De Bury flattered himself that he admired
wisdom because it purchaseth such vast delight. He had in mind the luxury of reading, and did
not think that in this world wisdom always hides its head or goes to the stake. Even if literature
were not to be abolished altogether, it is safe to think that the world would be better off,
if there were less writing. There should be a division of labor; some should read and write,
as some ordain laws, create philosophies, tend shops, make chairs,--but why should everybody
dabble with literature?

In all hypotheses as to the more remote destiny of literature, we can but be struck by the
precariousness of its existence. It is art imperishable and ever-changing material. A fire
once extinguished perhaps half the world's literature, and struck thousands from the list of
authors. The forgetfulness of mankind in the mysterious mediæval age; diminished by more than
half the world of books. There are many books which surely, and either rapidly or slowly, resolve
themselves into the elements, but the process cannot be seen. A whole army of books perishes
with every revolution of taste. And yet the amount of current writing surpasses the strength
of man's intellect or the length of his years. Surely, the press is very much of a nuisance
as well as a blessing. Its products are getting very much in the way, and the impulse of the
world is too strong to allow itself to be clogged by them. Something must be done.

Among possibilities, let the following be suggested. The world may perhaps return from unsymbolical
to symbolical writing. There is a science older than anything but shadowy traditions, and immemorially
linked with religion, poetry, and art. It is the almost forgotten science of symbolism. Symbols,
as compared with letters, are a higher and more potent style of expression. They are the earthly
shadows of eternal truth. It is the language of the fine arts, of painting, sculpture, the
stage,--it will be the language of life, when, rising in the scale of being, we shall return
from the dead sea of literature to the more energetic algebra of symbolical meanings. In these,
the forms of the reason and of Nature come into visible harmony; the hopes of man find their
shadows in the struggles of the universe, and the lights of the spirit cluster myriad-fold
around the objects of Nature. Let Phoenician language be vivified into the universal poetry
of symbolism, and thought would then become life, instead of the ghost of life. Current literature
would give way to a new and true mythology; authors and editors would suffer a transformation
similar to that of type-setters into artists, and of newsboys into connoisseurs; and the figures
of a noble humanity would fill the public mind, no longer confused and degraded by the perpetual
vision of leaden and unsuggestive letters. From that time prose would be extinct, and poetry
would be all in all. History would renew its youth,--would find, after the struggles, attainments,
and developments of its manhood, that there is after all nothing wiser in thought, no truer
law, than the instincts of childhood.

Or, again: improvements have already been made which promise as an ultimate result to transform
the largest library into a miniature for the pocket. Stenography may yet reach to a degree
that it will be able to write folios on the thumb-nail, and dispose all the literature of the
world comfortably in a gentleman's pocket, before he sets out on his summer excursion. The
contents of vast tomes, bodies of history and of science, may be so reduced that the eye can
cover them at a glance, and the process of reading be as rapid as that of thought The mind,
instead of wearying of slow perusal, would have to spur its lightning to keep pace with the
eye. Many books are born of mere vagueness and cloudiness of thought. All such, when thus compressed
into their reality, would go out in eternal night. There is something overpowering in the conception
of the high pressure to which life in all its departments may some time be brought. The mechanism
of reading and writing would be slight. The mental labor of comprehending would be immense.
The mind, instead of being subdued, would be spurred, by what it works in. We are now cramped
and checked by the overwhelming amount of linguistic red-tape in which we have to operate;
but then men, freed from these bonds, the husks of thought almost all thrown away, would be
purer, live faster, do greater, die younger. What magnificent physical improvements, we may
suppose, will then aid the powers of the soul! The old world would then be subdued, nevermore
to strike a blow at its lithe conqueror, man. The department of the newspaper, with inconceivable
photographic and telegraphic resources, may then be extended to the solar or the stellar systems,
and the turmoils of all creation would be reported at our breakfast-tables. Men would rise
every morning to take an intelligible account of the aspects and the prospects of the universe.

