"If it's bad news, I want to know it, right slam-bang out," I told him. And for the first time
he turned and looked at me, in a meditative and impersonal sort of way that brought the fish-hook
tugging at my thorax again. He looked at me as though some inner part of him were still debating
as to whether or not he was about to be confronted by a woman in tears. Then a touch of cool
desperation crept up into his eyes.

"Our whole apple-cart's gone over," he slowly and quietly announced, with those coldly narrowed
eyes still intent on my face, as though very little and yet a very great deal depended on just
how I was going to accept that slightly enigmatic remark. And he must have noticed the quick
frown of perplexity which probably came to my face, for that right hand of his resting on the
table opened and then closed again, as though it were squeezing a sponge very dry. "They've
got me," he said. "They've got me--to the last dollar!"

I stood up in the uncertain light, for it takes time to digest strong words, the same as it
takes time to digest strong meat.

I remembered how, during the last half-year, Dinky-Dunk had been on the wing, hurrying over
to Calgary, and Edmonton, flying east to Winnipeg, scurrying off to the Coast, poring over
township maps and blue-prints and official-looking letters from land associations and banks
and loan companies. I had been called in to sign papers, with bread-dough on my arms, and asked
to witness signatures, with Dinkie on my hip, and commanded by my absent hearth-mate to send
on certain documents by the next mail. I had also gathered up scattered sheets of paper covered
with close-penciled rows of figures, and had felt that Dinky-Dunk for a year back had been
giving more time to his speculations than to his home and his ranch. I had seen the lines deepen
a little on that lean and bony face of his and the pepper-and-salt above his ears turning into
almost pure salt. And I'd missed, this many a day, the old boyish note in his laughter and
the old careless intimacies in his talk. And being a woman of almost ordinary intelligence--preoccupied
as I was with those three precious babies of mine--I had arrived at the not unnatural conclusion
that my spouse was surrendering more and more to that passion of his for wealth and power.

Wealth and power, of course, are big words in the language of any man. But I had more than
an inkling that my husband had been taking a gambler's chance to reach the end in view. And
now, in that twilit shadow-huddled cubby-hole of a room, it came over me, all of a heap, that
having taken the gambler's chance, we had met a fate not uncommon to gamblers, and had lost.

"So we're bust!" I remarked, without any great show of emotion, feeling, I suppose, that without
worldly goods we might consistently be without elegance. And in the back of my brain I was
silently revising our old Kansas pioneer couplet into

                    In land-booms we trusted
                    And in land-booms we busted.

But it wasn't a joke. You can't have the bottom knocked out of your world, naturally, and find
an invisible Nero blithely fiddling on your heart-strings. And I hated to see Dinky-Dunk sitting
there with that dead look in his eyes. I hated to see him with his spirit broken, with that
hollow and haggard misery about the jowls, which made me think of a hound-dog mourning for
a dead master.

But I knew better than to show any pity for Dinky-Dunk at such a time. It would have been effective
as a stage-picture, I know, my reaching out and pressing his tired head against a breast sobbing
with comprehension and shaking with compassion. But pity, with real men-folks in real life,
is perilous stuff to deal in. I was equally afraid to feel sorry for myself, even though my
body chilled with the sudden suspicion that Casa Grande and all it held might be taken away
from me, that my bairns might be turned out of their warm and comfortable beds, overnight,
that the consoling sense of security which those years of labor had builded up about us might
vanish in a breath. And I needed new flannelette for the Twins' nighties, and a reefer for
little Dinky-Dunk, and an aluminum double-boiler that didn't leak for me maun's porritch. There
were rafts of things I needed, rafts and rafts of them. But here we were bust, so far as I
could tell, on the rocks, swamped, stranded and wrecked.

I held myself in, however, even if it did take an effort. I crossed casually over to the door,
and opened it to sniff at the smell of supper.

"Whatever happens, Dinky-Dunk," I very calmly announced, "we've got to eat. And if that she-Indian
scorches another scone I'll go down there and scalp her."

My husband got slowly and heavily up out of the chair, which gave out a squeak or two even
when relieved of his weight. I knew by his face in the half-light that he was going to say
that he didn't care to eat.

But, instead of saying that, he stood looking at me, with a tragically humble sort of contriteness.
Then, without quite knowing he was doing it, he brought his hands together in a sort of clinch,
with his face twisted up in an odd little grimace of revolt, as though he stood ashamed to
let me see that his lip was quivering.

"It's such a rotten deal," he almost moaned, "to you and the kiddies."

"Oh, we'll survive it," I said with a grin that was plainly forced.

"But you don't seem to understand what it means," he protested. His impatience, I could see,
was simply that of a man overtaxed. And I could afford to make allowance for it.

"I understand that it's almost an hour past supper-time, my Lord, and that if you don't give
me a chance to stoke up I'll bite the edges off the lamp-shade!"

I was rewarded by just the ghost of a smile, a smile that was much too wan and sickly to live long.

"All right," announced Dinky-Dunk, "I'll be down in a minute or two."

There was courage in that, I saw, for all the listlessness of the tone in which it had been
uttered. So I went skipping down-stairs and closed my baby grand and inspected the table and
twisted the glass bowl that held my nasturtium-buds about, to the end that the telltale word
of "Salt" embossed on its side would not betray the fact that it had been commandeered from
the kitchen-cabinet. Then I turned up the lamp and smilingly waited until my lord and master
seated himself at the other side of the table, grateful beyond words that we had at least that
evening alone and were not compelled to act up to a part before the eyes of strangers.

Yet it was anything but a successful meal. Dinky-Dunk's pretense at eating was about as hollow
as my pretense at light-heartedness. We each knew that the other was playing a part, and the
time came when to keep it up was altogether too much of a mockery.

"Dinky-Dunk," I said after a silence that was too abysmal to be ignored, "let's look this thing
squarely in the face."

"I can't!"

"Why not?"

"I haven't the courage."

"Then we've got to get it," I insisted. "I'm ready to face the music, if you are. So let's
get right down to hard-pan. Have they--have they really cleaned you out?"

"To the last dollar," he replied, without looking up.

"What did it?" I asked, remaining stubbornly and persistently ox-like in my placidity.

"No one thing did it, Chaddie, except that I tried to bite off too much. And for the last two
years, of course, the boom's been flattening out. If our Associated Land Corporation hadn't
gone under--"

"Then it has gone under?" I interrupted, with a catch of the breath, for I knew just how much
had been staked on that venture.

Dinky-Dunk nodded his head. "And carried me with it," he grimly announced. "But even that wouldn't
have meant a knock-out, if the government had only kept its promise and taken over my Vancouver
Island water-front."

That, I remembered, was to have been some sort of a shipyard. Then I remembered something else.

"When the Twins were born," I reminded Dunkie, "you put the ranch here at Casa Grande in my
name. Does that mean we lose our home?"

I was able to speak quietly, but I could hear the thud of my own heart-beats.

"That's for you to decide," he none too happily acknowledged. Then he added, with sudden decisiveness:
"No, they can't touch anything of yours! Not a thing!"

"But won't that hold good with the Harris Ranch, as well?" I further inquired. "That was actually
bought in my name. It was deeded to me from the first, and always has been in my name."

"Of course it's yours," he said with a hesitation that was slightly puzzling to me.

"Then how about the cattle and things?"

"What cattle?"

"The cattle we've kept on it to escape the wild land tax? Aren't those all legally mine?"

It sounded rapacious, I suppose, under the circumstances. It must have seemed like looting
on a battlefield. But I wasn't thinking entirely about myself, even though poor old Dinky-Dunk
evidently assumed so, from the look of sudden questioning that came into his stricken eyes.

"Yes, they're yours," he almost listlessly responded.

"Then, as I've already said, let's look this thing fairly and squarely in the face. We've taken
a gambler's chance on a big thing, and we've lost. We've lost our pile, as they phrase it out
here, but if what you say is true, we haven't lost our home, and what is still more important,
we haven't lost our pride."

My husband looked down at his plate.

"That's gone, too," he slowly admitted.

"It doesn't sound like my Dinky-Dunk, a thing like that," I promptly admonished. But I'd spoken
before I caught sight of the tragic look in his eyes as he once more looked up at me.

"If those politicians had only kept their word, we'd have had our shipyard deal to save us,"
he said, more to himself than to me. Yet that, I knew, was more an excuse than a reason.

"And if the rabbit-dog hadn't stopped to scratch, he might have caught the hare!" I none too
mercifully quoted. My husband's face hardened as he sat staring across the table at me.

"I'm glad you can take it lightly enough to joke over," he remarked, as he got up from his
chair. There was a ponderous sort of bitterness in his voice, a bitterness that brought me
up short. I had to fight back the surge of pity which was threatening to strangle my voice,
pity for a man, once so proud of his power, standing stripped and naked in his weakness.

"Heaven knows I don't want to joke, Honey-Chile," I told him. "But we're not the first of these
wild-catting westerners who've come a cropper. And since we haven't robbed a bank, or--"

"It's just a little worse than that," cut in Dinky-Dunk, meeting my astonished gaze with a
sort of Job-like exultation in his own misery. I promptly asked him what he meant. He sat down
again, before speaking.

"I mean that I've lost Allie's money along with my own," he very slowly and distinctly said
to me. And we sat there, staring at each other, for all the world like a couple of penguins
on a sub-Arctic shingle.

Allie, I remembered, was Dinky-Dunk's English cousin, Lady Alicia Elizabeth Newland, who'd
made the Channel flight in a navy plane and the year before had figured in a Devonshire motor-car
accident. Dinky-Dunk had a picture of her, from The Queen, up in his study somewhere, the picture
of a very debonair and slender young woman on an Irish hunter. He had a still younger picture
of her in a tweed skirt and spats and golf-boots, on the brick steps of a Sussex country-house,
with the jaw of a bull-dog resting across her knee. It was signed and dated and in a silver
frame and every time I'd found myself polishing that oblong of silver I'd done so with a wifely
ruffle of temper.

"How much was it?" I finally asked, still adhering to my rôle of the imperturbable chorus.

"She sent out over seven thousand pounds. She wanted it invested out here."

"Why?"

"Because of the new English taxes, I suppose. She said she wanted a ranch, but she left everything
to me."

"Then it was a trust fund!"

Dinky-Dunk bowed his head, in assent.

"It practically amounted to that," he acknowledged.

"And it's gone?"

"Every penny of it."

"But, Dinky-Dunk," I began. I didn't need to continue, for he seemed able to read my thoughts.

"I was counting on two full sections for Allie in the Simmond's Valley tract. That land is
worth thirty dollars an acre, unbroken, at any time. But the bank's swept that into the bag,
of course, along with the rest. The whole thing was like a stack of nine-pins--when one tumbled,
it knocked the other over. I thought I could manage to save that much for her, out of the ruin.
But the bank saw the land-boom was petering out. They shut off my credit, and foreclosed on
the city block--and that sent the whole card-house down."

I had a great deal of thinking to do, during the next minute or two.

"Then isn't it up to us to knuckle down, Dinky-Dunk, and make good on that Lady Alicia mistake?
If we get a crop this year we can--"

But Dinky-Dunk shook his head. "A thousand bushels an acre couldn't get me out of this mess,"
he maintained.

"Why not?"

"Because your Lady Alicia and her English maid have already arrived in Montreal," he quietly
announced.

"How do you know that?"

"She wrote to me from New York. She's had influenza, and it left her with a wheezy tube and
a spot on her lungs, as she put it. Her doctor told her to go to Egypt, but she says Egypt's
impossible, just now, and if she doesn't like our West she says she'll amble on to Arizona,
or try California for the winter." He looked away, and smiled rather wanly. "She's counting
on the big game shooting we can give her!"

"Grizzly, and buffalo, and that sort of thing?"

"I suppose so!"

"And she's on her way out here?"

"She's on her way out here to inspect a ranch which doesn't exist!"

I sat for a full minute gaping into Dinky-Dunk's woebegone face. And still again I had considerable
thinking to do.

"Then we'll make it exist," I finally announced. But Dinky-Dunk, staring gloomily off into
space, wasn't even interested. They had stunned the spirit out of him. He wasn't himself. They'd
put him where even a well-turned Scotch scone couldn't appeal to him.

"Listen," I solemnly admonished. "If this Cousin Allie of yours is coming out here for a ranch,
she's got to be presented with one."

"It sounds easy!" he said, not without mockery.

"And apparently the only way we can see that she's given her money's worth is to hand Casa
Grande over to her. Surely if she takes this, bag and baggage, she ought to be half-satisfied."

Dinky-Dunk looked up at me as though I were assailing him with the ravings of a mad-woman.
He knew how proud I had always been of that prairie home of ours.

"Casa Grande is yours--yours and the kiddies," he reminded me. "You've at least got that, and
God knows you'll need it now, more than ever, God knows I've at least kept my hands off that!"

"But don't you see it can't be ours, it can't be a home, when there's a debt of honor between
us and every acre of it."

"You're in no way involved in that debt," cried out my lord and master, with a trace of the
old battling light in his eyes.

