"Listen," she said. "Listen till I get through--I want you to understand. We were poor, and
we weren't fitted to be. We never had been, and we didn't know what to do. We'd been almost
rich; there was plenty, but my father wanted to take advantage of the growth of the town; he
wanted to be richer, but instead--well, just about the time your father finished building next
door we found we hadn't anything. People say that, sometimes, meaning that they haven't anything
in comparison with other people of their own kind, but we really hadn't anything--we hadn't
anything at all, Bibbs! And we couldn't DO anything. You might wonder why I didn't 'try to
be a stenographer'--and I wonder myself why, when a family loses its money, people always say
the daughters 'ought to go and be stenographers.' It's curious!--as if a wave of the hand made
you into a stenographer. No, I'd been raised to be either married comfortably or a well-to-do
old maid, if I chose not to marry. The poverty came on slowly, Bibbs, but at last it was all
there--and I didn't know how to be a stenographer. I didn't know how to be anything except
a well-to-do old maid or somebody's wife--and I couldn't be a well-to-do old maid. Then, Bibbs,
I did what I'd been raised to know how to do. I went out to be fascinating and be married.
I did it openly, at least, and with a kind of decent honesty. I told your brother I had meant
to fascinate him and that I was not in love with him, but I let him think that perhaps I meant
to marry him. I think I did mean to marry him. I had never cared for anybody, and I thought
it might be there really WASN'T anything more than a kind of excited fondness. I can't be sure,
but I think that though I did mean to marry him I never should have done it, because that sort
of a marriage is--it's sacrilege--something would have stopped me. Something did stop me; it
was your sister-in-law, Sibyl. She meant no harm--but she was horrible, and she put what I
was doing into such horrible words--and they were the truth--oh! I SAW myself! She was proposing
a miserable compact with me--and I couldn't breathe the air of the same room with her, though
I'd so cheapened myself she had a right to assume that I WOULD. But I couldn't! I left her,
and I wrote to your brother--just a quick scrawl. I told him just what I'd done; I asked his
pardon, and I said I would not marry him. I posted the letter, but he never got it. That was
the afternoon he was killed. That's all, Bibbs. Now you know what I did--and you know--ME!"
She pressed her clenched hands tightly against her eyes, leaning far forward, her head bowed
before him.

Bibbs had forgotten himself long ago; his heart broke for her. "Couldn't you--Isn't there--Won't
you--" he stammered. "Mary, I'm going with father. Isn't there some way you could use the money
without--without--"

She gave a choked little laugh.

"You gave me something to live for," he said. "You kept me alive, I think--and I've hurt you
like this!"

"Not you--oh no!"

"You could forgive me, Mary?"

"Oh, a thousand times!" Her right hand went out in a faltering gesture, and just touched his
own for an instant. "But there's nothing to forgive."

"And you can't--you can't--"

"Can't what, Bibbs?"

"You couldn't--"

"Marry you?" she said for him.

"Yes."

"No, no, no!" She sprang up, facing him, and, without knowing what she did, she set her hands
upon his breast, pushing him back from her a little. "I can't, I can't! Don't you SEE?"

"Mary--"

"No, no! And you must go now, Bibbs; I can't bear any more--please--"

"MARY--"

"Never, never, never!" she cried, in a passion of tears. "You mustn't come any more. I can't
see you, dear! Never, never, never!"

Somehow, in helpless, stumbling obedience to her beseeching gesture, he got himself to the
door and out of the house.

CHAPTER XXX

Sibyl and Roscoe were upon the point of leaving when Bibbs returned to the New House. He went
straight to Sibyl and spoke to her quietly, but so that the others might hear.

"When you said that if I'd stop to think, I'd realize that no one would be apt to care enough
about me to marry me, you were right," he said. "I thought perhaps you weren't, and so I asked
Miss Vertrees to marry me. It proved what you said of me, and disproved what you said of her.
She refused."

And, having thus spoken, he quitted the room as straightforwardly as he had entered it.

"He's SO queer!" Mrs. Sheridan gasped. "Who on earth would thought of his doin' THAT?"

"I told you," said her husband, grimly.

"You didn't tell us he'd go over there and--"

"I told you she wouldn't have him. I told you she wouldn't have JIM, didn't I?"

Sibyl was altogether taken aback. "Do you supose it's true? Do you suppose she WOULDN'T?"

"He didn't look exactly like a young man that had just got things fixed up fine with his girl,"
said Sheridan. "Not to me, he didn't!"

"But why would--"

"I told you," he interrupted, angrily, "she ain't that kind of a girl! If you got to have proof,
well, I'll tell you and get it over with, though I'd pretty near just as soon not have to talk
a whole lot about my dead boy's private affairs. She wrote to Jim she couldn't take him, and
it was a good, straight letter, too. It came to Jim's office; he never saw it. She wrote it
the afternoon he was hurt."

"I remember I saw her put a letter in the mail-box that afternoon," said Roscoe. "Don't you
remember, Sibyl? I told you about it--I was waiting for you while you were in there so long
talking to her mother. It was just before we saw that something was wrong over here, and Edith
came and called me."

Sibyl shook her head, but she remembered. And she was not cast down, for, although some remnants
of perplexity were left in her eyes, they were dimmed by an increasing glow of triumph; and
she departed--after some further fragmentary discourse--visibly elated. After all, the guilty
had not been exalted; and she perceived vaguely, but none the less surely, that her injury
had been copiously avenged. She bestowed a contented glance upon the old house with the cupola,
as she and Roscoe crossed the street.

When they had gone, Mrs. Sheridan indulged in reverie, but after a while she said, uneasily,
"Papa, you think it would be any use to tell Bibbs about that letter?"

"I don't know," he answered, walking moodily to the window. "I been thinkin' about it." He
came to a decision. "I reckon I will." And he went up to Bibbs's room.

"Well, you goin' back on what you said?" he inquired, brusquely, as he opened the door. "You
goin' to take it back and lay down on me again?"

"No," said Bibbs.

"Well, perhaps I didn't have any call to accuse you of that. I don't know as you ever did go
back on anything you said, exactly, though the Lord knows you've laid down on me enough. You
certainly have!" Sheridan was baffled. This was not what he wished to say, but his words were
unmanageable; he found himself unable to control them, and his querulous abuse went on in spite
of him. "I can't say I expect much of you--not from the way you always been, up to now--unless
you turn over a new leaf, and I don't see any encouragement to think you're goin' to do THAT!
If you go down there and show a spark o' real GIT-up, I reckon the whole office'll fall in
a faint. But if you're ever goin' to show any, you better begin right at the beginning and
begin to show it to-morrow."

"Yes--I'll try."

"You better, if it's in you!" Sheridan was sheerly nonplussed. He had always been able to say
whatever he wished to say, but his tongue seemed bewitched. He had come to tell Bibbs about
Mary's letter, and to his own angry astonishment he found it impossible to do anything except
to scold like a drudge-driver. "You better come down there with your mind made up to hustle
harder than the hardest workin'-man that's under you, or you'll not get on very good with me,
I tell you! The way to get ahead--and you better set it down in your books--the way to get
ahead is to do ten times the work of the hardest worker that works FOR you. But you don't know
what work is, yet. All you've ever done was just stand around and feed a machine a child could
handle, and then come home and take a bath and go callin'. I tell you you're up against a mighty
different proposition now, and if you're worth your salt--and you never showed any signs of
it yet--not any signs that stuck out enough to bang somebody on the head and make 'em sit up
and take notice--well, I want to say, right here and now--and you better listen, because I
want to say just what I DO say. I say--"

He meandered to a full stop. His mouth hung open, and his mind was a hopeless blank.

Bibbs looked up patiently--an old, old look. "Yes, father; I'm listening."

"That's all," said Sheridan, frowning heavily. "That's all I came to say, and you better see't
you remember it!"

He shook his head warningly, and went out, closing the door behind him with a crash. However,
no sound of footsteps indicated his departure. He stopped just outside the door, and stood
there a minute or more. Then abruptly he turned the knob and exhibited to his son a forehead
liberally covered with perspiration.

"Look here," he said, crossly. "That girl over yonder wrote Jim a letter--"

"I know," said Bibbs. "She told me."

"Well, I thought you needn't feel so much upset about it--" The door closed on his voice as
he withdrew, but the conclusion of the sentence was nevertheless audible--"if you knew she
wouldn't have Jim, either."

And he stamped his way down-stairs to tell his wife to quit her frettin' and not bother him
with any more fool's errands. She was about to inquire what Bibbs "said," but after a second
thought she decided not to speak at all. She merely murmured a wordless assent, and verbal
communication was given over between them for the rest of that afternoon.

Bibbs and his father were gone when Mrs. Sheridan woke, the next morning, and she had a dreary
day. She missed Edith woefully, and she worried about what might be taking place in the Sheridan
Building. She felt that everything depended on how Bibbs "took hold," and upon her husband's
return in the evening she seized upon the first opportunity to ask him how things had gone.
He was non-committal. What could anybody tell by the first day? He'd seen plenty go at things
well enough right at the start and then blow up. Pretty near anybody could show up fair the
first day or so. There was a big job ahead. This material, such as it was--Bibbs, in fact--had
to be broken in to handling the work Roscoe had done; and then, at least as an overseer, he
must take Jim's position in the Realty Company as well. He told her to ask him again in a month.

But during the course of dinner she gathered from some disjointed remarks of his that he and
Bibbs had lunched together at the small restaurant where it had been Sheridan's custom to lunch
with Jim, and she took this to be an encouraging sign. Bibbs went to his room as soon as they
left the table, and her husband was not communicative after reading his paper.

She became an anxious spectator of Bibbs's progress as a man of business, although it was a
progress she could glimpse but dimly and only in the evening, through his remarks and his father's
at dinner. Usually Bibbs was silent, except when directly addressed, but on the first evening
of the third week of his new career he offered an opinion which had apparently been the subject
of previous argument.

"I'd like you to understand just what I meant about those storage-rooms, father," he said,
as Jackson placed his coffee before him. "Abercrombie agreed with me, but you wouldn't listen
to him."

"You can talk, if you want to, and I'll listen," Sheridan returned, "but you can't show me
that Jim ever took up with a bad thing. The roof fell because it hadn't had time to settle
and on account of weather conditions. I want that building put just the way Jim planned it."

"You can't have it," said Bibbs. "You can't, because Jim planned for the building to stand
up, and it won't do it. The other one--the one that didn't fall--is so shot with cracks we
haven't dared use it for storage. It won't stand weight. There's only one thing to do: get
both buildings down as quickly as we can, and build over. Brick's the best and cheapest in
the long run for that type."

Sheridan looked sarcastic. "Fine! What we goin' to do for storage-rooms while we're waitin'
for those few bricks to be laid?"

"Rent," Bibbs returned, promptly. "We'll lose money if we don't rent, anyhow--they were waiting
so long for you to give the warehouse matter your attention after the roof fell. You don't
know what an amount of stuff they've got piled up on us over there. We'd have to rent until
we could patch up those process perils--and the Krivitch Manufacturing Company's plant is empty,
right across the street. I took an option on it for us this morning."

Sheridan's expression was queer. "Look here!" he said, sharply. "Did you go and do that without
consulting me?"

"It didn't cost anything," said Bibbs. "It's only until to-morrow afternoon at two o'clock.
I undertook to convince you before then."

"Oh, you did?" Sheridan's tone was sardonic. "Well, just suppose you couldn't convince me."

"I can, though--and I intend to," said Bibbs, quietly. "I don't think you understand the condition
of those buildings you want patched up."

"Now, see here," said Sheridan, with slow emphasis; "suppose I had my mind set about this.
JIM thought they'd stand, and suppose it was--well, kind of a matter of sentiment with me to
prove he was right."

Bibbs looked at him compassionately. "I'm sorry if you have a sentiment about it, father,"
he said. "But whether you have or not can't make a difference. You'll get other people hurt
if you trust that process, and that won't do. And if you want a monument to Jim, at least you
want one that will stand. Besides, I don't think you can reasonably defend sentiment in this
particular kind of affair."

"Oh, you don't?"

"No, but I'm sorry you didn't tell me you felt it."

Sheridan was puzzled by his son's tone. "Why are you 'sorry'?" he asked, curiously.

"Because I had the building inspector up there, this noon," said Bibbs, "and I had him condemn
both those buildings."

"What?"

"He'd been afraid to do it before, until he heard from us--afraid you'd see he lost his job.
But he can't un-condemn them--they've got to come down now."

Sheridan gave him a long and piercing stare from beneath lowered brows. Finally he said, "How
long did they give you on that option to convince me?"

"Until two o'clock to-morrow afternoon."

"All right," said Sheridan, not relaxing. "I'm convinced."

Bibbs jumped up. "I thought you would be. I'll telephone the Krivitch agent. He gave me the
option until to-morrow, but I told him I'd settle it this evening."

Sheridan gazed after him as he left the room, and then, though his expression did not alter
in the slightest, a sound came from him that startled his wife. It had been a long time since
she had heard anything resembling a chuckle from him, and this sound--although it was grim
and dry--bore that resemblance.

She brightened eagerly. "Looks like he was startin' right well don't it, papa?"

"Startin'? Lord! He got me on the hip! Why, HE knew what I wanted--that's why he had the inspector
up there, so't he'd have me beat before we even started to talk about it. And did you hear
him? 'Can't reasonably defend SENTIMENT!' And the way he says 'Us': 'Took an option for Us'!
'Stuff piled up on Us'!"

There was always an alloy for Mrs. sheridan. "I don't just like the way he looks, though, papa."

"Oh, there's got to be something! Only one chick left at home, so you start to frettin' about IT!"

"No. He's changed. There's kind of a settish look to his face, and--"

"I guess that's the common sense comin' out on him, then," said Sheridan. "You'll see symptoms
like that in a good many business men, I expect."

"Well, and he don't have as good color as he was gettin' before. And he'd begun to fill out
some, but--"

Sheridan gave forth another dry chuckle, and, going round the table to her, patted her upon
the shoulder with his left hand, his right being still heavily bandaged, though he no longer
wore a sling. "That's the way it is with you, mamma--got to take your frettin' out one way
if you don't another!"

"No. He don't look well. It ain't exactly the way he looked when he begun to get sick that
time, but he kind o' seems to be losin', some way."

"Yes, he may 'a' lost something," said Sheridan. "I expect he's lost a whole lot o' foolishness
besides his God-forsaken notions about writin' poetry and--"

"No," his wife persisted. "I mean he looks right peakid. And yesterday, when he was settin'
with us, he kept lookin' out the window. He wasn't readin'."

"Well, why shouldn't he look out the window?"

"He was lookin' over there. He never read a word all afternoon, I don't believe."

"Look, here!" said Sheridan. "Bibbs might 'a' kept goin' on over there the rest of his life,
moonin' on and on, but what he heard Sibyl say did one big thing, anyway. It woke him up out
of his trance. Well, he had to go and bust clean out with a bang; and that stopped his goin'
over there, and it stopped his poetry, but I reckon he's begun to get pretty fair pay for what
he lost. I guess a good many young men have had to get over worries like his; they got to lose
SOMETHING if they're goin' to keep ahead o' the procession nowadays--and it kind o' looks to
me, mamma, like Bibbs might keep quite a considerable long way ahead. Why, a year from now
I'll bet you he won't know there ever WAS such a thing as poetry! And ain't he funny? He wanted
to stick to the shop so's he could 'think'! What he meant was, think about something useless.
Well, I guess he's keepin' his mind pretty occupied the other way these days. Yes, sir, it
took a pretty fair-sized shock to get him out of his trance, but it certainly did the business."
He patted his wife's shoulder again, and then, without any prefatory symptoms, broke into a
boisterous laugh.

"Honest, mamma, he works like a gorilla!"

CHAPTER XXI

And so Bibbs sat in the porch of the temple with the money-changers. But no one came to scourge
him forth, for this was the temple of Bigness, and the changing of money was holy worship and
true religion. The priests wore that "settish" look Bibbs's mother had seen beginning to develop
about his mouth and eyes--a wary look which she could not define, but it comes with service
at the temple; and it was the more marked upon Bibbs for his sharp awakening to the necessities
of that service.

He did as little "useless" thinking as possible, giving himself no time for it. He worked continuously,
keeping his thoughts still on his work when he came home at night; and he talked of nothing
whatever except his work. But he did not sing at it. He was often in the streets, and people
were not allowed to sing in the streets. They might make any manner of hideous uproar--they
could shake buildings; they could out-thunder the thunder, deafen the deaf, and kill the sick
with noise; or they could walk the streets or drive through them bawling, squawking, or screeching,
as they chose, if the noise was traceably connected with business; though street musicians
were not tolerated, being considered a nuisance and an interference. A man or woman who went
singing for pleasure through the streets--like a crazy Neopolitan--would have been stopped,
and belike locked up; for Freedom does not mean that a citizen is allowed to do every outrageous
thing that comes into his head. The streets were dangerous enough, in all conscience, without
any singing! and the Motor Federation issued public warnings declaring that the pedestrian's
life was in his own hands, and giving directions how to proceed with the least peril. However,
Bibbs Sheridan had no desire to sing in the streets, or anywhere. He had gone to his work with
an energy that, for the start, at least, was bitter, and there was no song left in him.

He began to know his active fellow-citizens. Here and there among them he found a leisurely,
kind soul, a relic of the old period of neighborliness, "pioneer stock," usually; and there
were men--particularly among the merchants and manufacturers--"so honest they leaned backward";
reputations sometimes attested by stories of heroic sacrifices to honor; nor were there lacking
some instances of generosity even nobler. Here and there, too, were book-men, in their little
leisure; and, among the Germans, music-men. And these, with the others, worshiped Bigness and
the growth, each man serving for his own sake and for what he could get out of it, but all
united in their faith in the beneficence and glory of their god.

To almost all alike that service stood as the most important thing in life, except on occasion
of some such vital, brief interregnum as the dangerous illness of a wife or child. In the way
of "relaxation" some of the servers took golf; some took fishing; some took "shows"--a mixture
of infantile and negroid humor, stockings, and tin music; some took an occasional debauch;
some took trips; some took cards; and some took nothing. The high priests were vigilant to
watch that no "relaxation" should affect the service. When a man attended to anything outside
his business, eyes were upon him; his credit was in danger--that is, his life was in danger.
And the old priests were as ardent as the young ones; the million was as eager to be bigger
as the thousand; seventy was as busy as seventeen. They strove mightily against one another,
and the old priests were the most wary, the most plausible, and the most dangerous. Bibbs learned
he must walk charily among these--he must wear a thousand eyes and beware of spiders indeed!

And outside the temple itself were the pretenders, the swarming thieves and sharpers and fleecers,
the sly rascals and the open rascals; but these were feeble folk, not dangerous once he knew
them, and he had a good guide to point them out to him. They were useful sometimes, he learned,
and many of them served as go-betweens in matters where business must touch politics. He learned
also how breweries and "traction" companies and banks and other institutions fought one another
for the political control of the city. The newspapers, he discovered, had lost their ancient
political influence, especially with the knowing, who looked upon them with a skeptical humor,
believing the journals either to be retained partisans, like lawyers, or else striving to forward
the personal ambitions of their owners. The control of the city lay not with them, but was
usually obtained by giving the hordes of negroes gin-money, and by other largesses. The revenues
of the people were then distributed as fairly as possible among a great number of men who had
assisted the winning side. Names and titles of offices went with many of the prizes, and most
of these title-holders were expected to present a busy appearance at times; and, indeed, some
among them did work honestly and faithfully.

Bibbs had been very ignorant. All these simple things, so well known and customary, astonished
him at first, and once--in a brief moment of forgetting that he was done with writing--he thought
that if he had known them and written of them, how like a satire the plainest relation of them
must have seemed! Strangest of all to him was the vehement and sincere patriotism. On every
side he heard it--it was a permeation; the newest school-child caught it, though just from
Hungary and learning to stammer a few words of the local language. Everywhere the people shouted
of the power, the size, the riches, and the growth of their city. Not only that, they said
that the people of their city were the greatest, the "finest," the strongest, the Biggest people
on earth. They cited no authorities, and felt the need of none, being themselves the people
thus celebrated. And if the thing was questioned, or if it was hinted that there might be one
small virtue in which they were not perfect and supreme, they wasted no time examining themselves
to see if what the critic said was true, but fell upon him and hooted him and cursed him, for
they were sensitive. So Bibbs, learning their ways and walking with them, harkened to the voice
of the people and served Bigness with them. For the voice of the people is the voice of their god.

Sheridan had made the room next to his own into an office for Bibbs, and the door between the
two rooms usually stood open--the father had established that intimacy. One morning in February,
when Bibbs was alone, Sheridan came in, some sheets of typewritten memoranda in his hand.

"Bibbs," he said, "I don't like to butt in very often this way, and when I do I usually wish
I hadn't--but for Heaven's sake what have you been buying that ole busted inter-traction stock
for?"

Bibbs leaned back from his desk. "For eleven hundred and fifty-five dollars. That's all it cost."

"Well, it ain't worth eleven hundred and fifty-five cents. You ought to know that. I don't
get your idea. That stuff's deader'n Adam's cat!"

"It might be worth something--some day."

"How?"

"It mightn't be so dead--not if we went into it," said Bibbs, coolly.

"Oh!" Sheridan considered this musingly; then he said, "Who'd you buy it from?"

"A broker--Fansmith."

"Well, he must 'a' got it from one o' the crowd o' poor ninnies that was soaked with it. Don't
you know who owned it?"

"Yes, I do."

"Ain't sayin', though? That it? What's the matter?"

"It belonged to Mr. Vertrees," said Bibbs, shortly, applying himself to his desk.

"So!" Sheridan gazed down at his son's thin face. "Excuse me," he said. "Your business." And
he went back to his own room. But presently he looked in again.

"I reckon you won't mind lunchin' alone to-day"--he was shuffling himself into his overcoat--"because
I just thought I'd go up to the house and get THIS over with mamma." He glanced apologetically
toward his right hand as it emerged from the sleeve of the overcoat. The bandages had been
removed, finally, that morning, revealing but three fingers--the forefinger and the finger
next to it had been amputated. "She's bound to make an awful fuss, and better to spoil her
lunch than her dinner. I'll be back about two."

But he calculated the time of his arrival at the New House so accurately that Mrs. Sheridan's
lunch was not disturbed, and she was rising from the lonely table when he came into the dining-room.
He had left his overcoat in the hall, but he kept his hands in his trousers pockets.

"What's the matter, papa?" she asked, quickly. "Has anything gone wrong? You ain't sick?"

"Me!" He laughed loudly. "Me SICK?"

"You had lunch?"

"Didn't want any to-day. You can give me a cup o' coffee, though."

She rang, and told George to have coffee made, and when he had withdrawn she said querulously,
"I just know there's something wrong."

"Nothin' in the world," he responded, heartily, taking a seat at the head of the table. "I
thought I'd talk over a notion o' mine with you, that's all. It's more women-folks' business
than what it is man's, anyhow."

"What about?"

"Why, ole Doc Gurney was up at the office this morning awhile--"

"To look at your hand? How's he say it's doin'?"

"Fine! Well, he went in and sat around with Bibbs awhile--"

Mrs. Sheridan nodded pessimistically. "I guess it's time you had him, too. I KNEW Bibbs--"

"Now, mamma, hold your horses! I wanted him to look Bibbs over BEFORE anything's the matter.
You don't suppose I'm goin' to take any chances with BIBBS, do you? Well, afterwards, I shut
the door, and I an' ole Gurney had a talk. He's a mighty disagreeable man; he rubbed it in
on me what he said about Bibbs havin' brains if he ever woke up. Then I thought he must want
to get something out o' me, he go so flattering--for a minute! 'Bibbs couldn't help havin'
business brains,' he says, 'bein' YOUR son. Don't be surprised,' he says--'don't be surprised
at his makin' a success,' he says. 'He couldn't get over his heredity; he couldn't HELP bein'
a business success--once you got him into it. It's in his blood. Yes, sir' he says, 'it doesn't
need MUCH brains,' he says, 'an only third-rate brains, at that,' he says, 'but it does need
a special KIND o' brains,' he says, 'to be a millionaire. I mean,' he says, 'when a man's given
a start. If nobody gives him a start, why, course he's got to have luck AND the right kind
o' brains. The only miracle about Bibbs,' he says, 'is where he got the OTHER kind o' brains--the
brains you made him quit usin' and throw away.'"

"But what'd he say about his health?" Mrs. Sheridan demanded, impatiently, as George placed
a cup of coffee before her husband. Sheridan helped himself to cream and sugar, and began to
sip the coffee.

"I'm comin' to that," he returned, placidly. "See how easy I manage this cup with my left hand,
mamma?"

"You been doin' that all winter. What did--"

"It's wonderful," he interrupted, admiringly, "what a fellow can do with his left hand. I can
sign my name with mine now, well's I ever could with my right. It came a little hard at first,
but now, honest, I believe I RATHER sign with my left. That's all I ever have to write, anyway--just
the signature. Rest's all dictatin'." He blew across the top of the cup unctuously. "Good coffee,
mamma! Well, about Bibbs. Ole Gurney says he believes if Bibbs could somehow get back to the
state o' mind he was in about the machine-shop--that is, if he could some way get to feelin'
about business the way he felt about the shop--not the poetry and writin' part, but--" He paused,
supplementing his remarks with a motion of his head toward the old house next door. "He says
Bibbs is older and harder'n what he was when he broke down that time, and besides, he ain't
the kind o' dreamy way he was then--and I should say he AIN'T! I'd like 'em to show ME anybody
his age that's any wider awake! But he says Bibbs's health never need bother us again if--"

Mrs. Sheridan shook her head. "I don't see any help THAT way. You know yourself she wouldn't
have Jim."

"Who's talkin' about her havin' anybody? But, my Lord! she might let him LOOK at her! She needn't
'a' got so mad, just because he asked her, that she won't let him come in the house any more.
He's a mighty funny boy, and some ways I reckon he's pretty near as hard to understand as the
Bible, but Gurney kind o' got me in the way o' thinkin' that if she'd let him come back and
set around with her an evening or two sometimes--not reg'lar, I don't mean--why--Well, I just
thought I'd see what YOU'D think of it. There ain't any way to talk about it to Bibbs himself--I
don't suppose he'd let you, anyhow--but I thought maybe you could kind o' slip over there some
day, and sort o' fix up to have a little talk with her, and kind o' hint around till you see
how the land lays, and ask her--"

"ME!" Mrs. Sheridan looked both helpless and frightened. "No." She shook her head decidedly.
"It wouldn't do any good."

"You won't try it?"

"I won't risk her turnin' me out o' the house. Some way, that's what I believe she did to Sibyl,
from what Roscoe said once. No, I CAN'T--and, what's more, it'd only make things worse. If
people find out you're runnin' after 'em they think you're cheap, and then they won't do as
much for you as if you let 'em alone. I don't believe it's any use, and I couldn't do it if
it was."

He sighed with resignation. "All right, mamma. That's all." Then, in a livelier tone, he said:
"Ole Gurney took the bandages off my hand this morning. All healed up. Says I don't need 'em
any more."

"Why, that's splendid, papa!" she cried, beaming. "I was afraid--Let's see."

She came toward him, but he rose, still keeping his hand in his pocket. "Wait a minute," he
said, smiling. "Now it may give you just a teeny bit of a shock, but the fact is--well, you
remember that Sunday when Sibyl came over here and made all that fuss about nothin'--it was
the day after I got tired o' that statue when Edith's telegram came--"

"Let me see your hand!" she cried.

"Now wait!" he said, laughing and pushing her away with his left hand. "The truth is, mamma,
that I kind o' slipped out on you that morning, when you wasn't lookin', and went down to ole
Gurney's office--he'd told me to, you see--and, well, it doesn't AMOUNT to anything." And he
held out, for her inspection, the mutilated hand. "You see, these days when it's all dictatin',
anyhow, nobody'd mind just a couple o'--"

He had to jump for her--she went over backward. For the second time in her life Mrs. Sheridan
fainted.

CHAPTER XXXII

It was a full hour later when he left her lying upon a couch in her own room, still lamenting
intermittently, though he assured her with heat that the "fuss" she was making irked him far
more than his physical loss. He permitted her to think that he meant to return directly to
his office, but when he came out to the open air he told the chauffeur in attendance to await
him in front of Mr. Vertrees's house, whither he himself proceeded on foot.

Mr. Vertrees had taken the sale of half of his worthless stock as manna in the wilderness;
it came from heaven--by what agency he did not particularly question. The broker informed him
that "parties were interested in getting hold of the stock," and that later there might be
a possible increase in the value of the large amount retained by his client. It might go "quite
a ways up" within a year or so, he said, and he advised "sitting tight" with it. Mr. Vertrees
went home and prayed.

He rose from his knees feeling that he was surely coming into his own again. It was more than
a mere gasp of temporary relief with him, and his wife shared his optimism; but Mary would
not let him buy back her piano, and as for furs--spring was on the way, she said. But they
paid the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick-maker, and hired a cook once more. It was
this servitress who opened the door for Sheridan and presently assured him that Miss Vertrees
would "be down."

He was not the man to conceal admiration when he felt it, and he flushed and beamed as Mary
made her appearance, almost upon the heels of the cook. She had a look of apprehension for
the first fraction of a second, but it vanished at the sight of him, and its place was taken
in her eyes by a soft brilliance, while color rushed in her cheeks.

"Don't be surprised," he said. "Truth is, in a way it's sort of on business I looked in here.
It'll only take a minute, I expect."

"I'm sorry," said Mary. "I hoped you'd come because we're neighbors."

He chuckled. "Neighbors! Sometimes people don't see so much o' their neighbors as they used
to. That is, I hear so--lately."

"You'll stay long enough to sit down, won't you?"

"I guess I could manage that much." And they sat down, facing each other and not far apart.

"Of course, it couldn't be called business, exactly," he said, more gravely. "Not at all, I
expect. But there's something o' yours it seemed to me I ought to give you, and I just thought
it was better to bring it myself and explain how I happened to have it. It's this--this letter
you wrote my boy." He extended the letter to her solemnly, in his left hand, and she took it
gently from him. "It was in his mail, after he was hurt. You knew he never got it, I expect."

"Yes," she said, in a low voice.

He sighed. "I'm glad he didn't. Not," he added, quickly--"not but what you did just right to
send it. You did. You couldn't acted any other way when it came right down TO it. There ain't
any blame comin' to you--you were above-board all through."

Mary said, "Thank you," almost in a whisper, and with her head bowed low.

"You'll have to excuse me for readin' it. I had to take charge of all his mail and everything;
I didn't know the handwritin', and I read it all--once I got started."

"I'm glad you did."

"Well"--he leaned forward as if to rise--"I guess that's about all. I just thought you ought
to have it."

"Thank you for bringing it."

He looked at her hopefully, as if he thought and wished that she might have something more
to say. But she seemed not to be aware of this glance, and sat with her eyes fixed sorrowfully
upon the floor.

"Well, I expect I better be gettin' back to the office," he said, rising desperately. "I told--I
told my partner I'd be back at two o'clock, and I guess he'll think I'm a poor business man
if he catches me behind time. I got to walk the chalk a mighty straight line these days--with
THAT fellow keepin' tabs on me!"

Mary rose with him. "I've always heard YOU were the hard driver."

He guffawed derisively. "Me? I'm nothin' to that partner o' mine. You couldn't guess to save
your life how he keeps after me to hold up my end o' the job. I shouldn't be surprised he'd
give me the grand bounce some day, and run the whole circus by himself. You know how he is--once
he goes AT a thing!"

"No," she smiled. "I didn't know you had a partner. I'd always heard--"

He laughed, looking away from her. "It's just my way o' speakin' o' that boy o' mine, Bibbs."

He stood then, expectant, staring out into the hall with an air of careless geniality. He felt
that she certainly must at least say, "How IS Bibbs?" but she said nothing at all, though he
waited until the silence became embarrassing.

"Well, I guess I better be gettin' down there," he said, at last. "He might worry."

"Good-by--and thank you," said Mary.

"For what?"

"For the letter."

"Oh," he said, blankly. "You're welcome. Good-by."

Mary put out her hand. "Good-by."

"You'll have to excuse my left hand," he said. "I had a little accident to the other one."

She gave a pitying cry as she saw. "Oh, poor Mr. Sheridan!"

"Nothin' at all! Dictate everything nowadays, anyhow." He laughed jovially. "Did anybody tell
you how it happened?"

"I heard you hurt your hand, but no--not just how."

"It was this way," he began, and both, as if unconsciously, sat down again. "You may not know
it, but I used to worry a good deal about the youngest o' my boys--the one that used to come
to see you sometimes, after Jim--that is, I mean Bibbs. He's the one I spoke of as my partner;
and the truth is that's what it's just about goin' to amount to, one o' these days--if his
health holds out. Well, you remember, I expect, I had him on a machine over at a plant o' mine;
and sometimes I'd kind o' sneak in there and see how he was gettin' along. Take a doctor with
me sometimes, because Bibbs never WAS so robust, you might say. Ole Doc Gurney--I guess maybe
you know him? Tall, thin man; acts sleepy--"

"Yes."

