"I shall say no more, Sir, but leave the material part of this defence to the impartiality,
candour, and credit of men who are no ways dependent on him.  He has already found that defence,
Sir, and I hope he always will! It is to their authority I trust-and to me, it is the strongest
proof of innocence, that for twenty years together, no crime could be solemnly alleged against
him; and since his dismission, he has seen a majority rise up to defend his character in that
very House of Commons in which a majority had overturned his power. As, therefore, Sir, I must
think him innocent, I stand up to protect him from injustice-had he been accused, I should
not have given the House this trouble: but I think, Sir, that the precedent of what was done
upon this question a few days ago, is a sufficient reason, if I had no other, for me to give
my negative now."

William Pitt, some time after, in the debate, said, how very commendable it was in him to have
made the above speech, which must have made an impression upon the House; but if It was becoming
in him to remember that he was the child of the accused, that the House ought to remember too
that they are the children of their country.  It was a great compliment from him, and very
artful too.

I forgot to tell you in my last, that one of our men-of-war, commanded by Lord Bamffe,(518)
a Scotchman, has taken another register ship, of immense value.

You will laugh at a comical thing that happened the other day to Lord Lincoln.  He sent the
Duke of Richmond word that he would dine with him in the country, and if he would give him
leave, would bring lord Bury with him.  It happens that Lord Bury is nothing less than the
Duke of Richmond's nephew.(519) The Duke, very properly, sent him word back, that Lord Bury
might bring him, if he pleased.

I have been plagued all this morning with that oaf of unlicked antiquity, Prideaux,(520) and
his deaf boy.  He talked through all Italy, and every thing in all Italy.  Upon mentioning
Stosch, I asked if he had seen his collection.  He replied, very few of his things, for he
did not like his company; that he never heard so much heathenish talk in his days.  I inquired
what it was, and found that Stosch had one day said before him, "that the soul was only a little
glue." I laughed so much that he walked off; I suppose, thinking, that I believed so too. 
By the way, tell Stosch that a gold Alectus sold at Lord Oxford's sale for above threescore
pounds.  Good night, my dear child!  I am just going to the ridotto; one hates those places,
comes away out of humour, and yet one goes again! How are you! I long for your next letter
to answer me.

(512) The debate in the House of Commons on Lord Limerick's motion for a Secret Committee to
inquire into the conduct of the Earl of Orford during the last ten years of his administration.-E.

(513) The motion was carried by a majority of seven, the numbers being 252 against 245.-E.

(514) This was much mentioned in the pamphlets written against the war, which was said to have
been determined "by a gentleman's fumbling in his pocket for a piece of paper at ten o'clock
at night," and the House's agreeing to the motion without any consideration.

(515) The author of these letters.

(516) There is a fictitious speech printed for this in several Magazines of that time, but
which does not contain one sentence of the true one.

(517) The following note of this debate is from the Bishop of Oxford's diary.-,, March 23.
Motion by Lord Limerick, and seconded by Sir J. St. Aubin, on the 9th instant, for a Secret
Committee of twenty-one, to examine into the Earl of Orford's conduct for the last ten years
of his being chancellor of the exchequer and lord of the treasury.  Mr. Pultney said, ministers
should always remember the account they must make; that he was against rancour in the inquiry,
desired not to be named for the committee, particularly because of a rash word he had used,
that he would pursue Sir Robert Walpole to his destruction; that now the minister was destroyed,
he had no ill-will to the man; that from his own knowledge and experience of many of the Tories,
he believed them to be as sincerely for the King and this family as himself; that he was sensible
of the disagreeable situation he was in, and would get out of it as soon as he could.  Mr.
Sandys spoke for the motion, and said, he desired his own conduct might always be strictly
inquired into.  Lord Orford's son, and Mr. Ellis spoke well against the motion.  It was carried
by 252 against 245.  Three or four were shut out, who would have been against it.  Mr. William
-Finch against it. The Prince's servants for it. Then Mr. Pultney moved for an address of duty
to the King &e. which he begged might pass without opposition; and accordingly it did so. 
But Mr. W. W. wynne and several others, went out of the House; which was by some understood
to be disapprobation, by others accident or weariness," Secker MS.-E.

(518) alexander Ogilvy, sixth Lord Banff, commanded the Hastings man-of war in 1742 and 1743,
and captured, during that time, a valuable outward-bound Spanish register-ship, a Spanish privateer
of twenty guns, a French polacca with a rich cargo, and other vessels.  He died at Lisbon in
November 1746, at the early age of twenty-eight.-D.

(519) George Lord Bury, afterwards third Earl of Albemarle.  His mother was Lady Anne Lennox,
sister of the Duke of Richmond.-D.  His lordship served as aide-de-camp) to the Duke of Cumberland
at the battle of Fontenoy and at Culloden, and commanded in chief at the reduction of the Havannah.
He died in 1772.)

(520 Grandson of Dean Prideaux; he was just returned out of Italy, with his son.

241 Letter 60 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, April 1, 1742.

I received your letter of March 18th, and would be as particular in the other dates which you
have sent me in the end of your letter, but our affairs having been in such confusion, I have
removed all my papers In general from hence, and cannot now examine them.  I have, I think,
received all yours: but lately I received them two days at least after their arrival, and evidently
opened; so we must be cautious now what we write.  Remember this, for of your last the seal
had been quite taken off and set on again.

Last Friday we balloted for the Secret Committee.  Except the vacancies, there were but thirty-one
members absent: five hundred and eighteen gave in lists.  At six that evening they named a
committee of which Lord Hartington was chairman, (as having moved for it,) to examine the lists.
This lasted from that time, all that night, till four in the afternoon of the next day; twenty-two
hours without remission.  There were sixteen people, of which were Lord Hartington and Coke,
who sat up the whole time, and one of theirs, Velters Cornwall,(521) fainted with the fatigue
and heat, for people of all sorts were admitted into the room, to see the lists drawn; it was
in the Speaker's chambers.  On the conclusion, they found the majority was for a mixed list,
but of which the Opposition had the greater number.  Here are the two lists, which were given
out by each side, but of which people altered several in their private lists.

THE COURT LIST.

William Bowles. *Lord Cornbury.(522) *William Finch.(523) Lord Fitzwilliam. Sir Charles Gilmour.
*Charles Gore. H. Arthur Herbert.(524) Sir Henry Liddel.(525) John Plumptree (526) Sir John
Ramsden. Strange, Solicitor-General. Cholmley Turnor. John Talbot.(527) General Wade.(528)
James West.(529)

THE OPPOSITION LIST.

Sir John Barnard.
Alexander Hume Campbell.(530)
Sir John Cotton.
George Bubb Doddington.(531)
Nicholas Fazakerley.
Henry Furnese.
 Earl of Granird.
Mr. Hooper.(532)
Lord Limerick.(533)
George Lyttelton.(534)
John Philips-(535)
William Pitt.(536)
Mr. Prouse.
Edmund Waller.(537)
Sir Watkyn Williams Wynn.

Besides the following six which were in both lists-

These Six, On casting up the numbers, had those marked against their names, and were consequently
chosen.  Those with this mark (*) were reckoned of the Opposition.

*George Compton 515 *William Noell 512 (538) *Lord Quarendon 512 (539) *Sir John Rushout 516
(540) *Samuel Sandys 516 (541) Sir John St. Aubin 518

On casting up the numbers, the lists proved thus:-

*Sir John Barnard 268 *Nicholas Fazakerley 262 (542) *Henry Furnese 282 *Earl of Granard 258
*Mr.  Hooper 265 *William Pitt 259 *Mr. Prouse 259 *Edmund Waller 259 William Bowles 259 *Lord
Cornbury 262 Solicitor-General 259 Cholmley Turnor 259

This made eighteen: Mr. Finch, Sir Harry Liddel, and Mr. Talbot, had 258 each, and Hume Campbell
257, besides one in which his name was mis-written, but allowed; out of these four, two were
to be chosen: it was agreed that the Speaker was to choose them; he, with a resolution not
supposed to be in him, as he has been the most notorious affecter of popularity, named Sir
Harry Liddel and Mr. 'albot; so that, on the whole, we have just five that we can call our
own.(543) These will not be sufficient to stop their proceedings, but by being privy, may stop
any iniquitous proceedings.  They have chosen Lord Limerick chairman.  Lord Orford returns
tomorrow from Houghton to Chelsea, from whence my uncle went in great fright to fetch him.

I was yesterday presented to the Prince and Princess; but had not the honour of a word from
either: he did vouchsafe to talk to Lord Walpole the day before.

Yesterday the Lord Mayor brought in their favourite bill for repealing the Septennial Act,
but we rejected it by 284 to 204.(544)

You shall have particular accounts of the Secret Committee and their proceedings: but It will
be at least a month before they can make any progress.  You did not say any thing about yourself
in your last; never omit it, my dear child.

(521) Velters Cornwall, Esq., of Meccas Court, in Herefordshire, and member for that county.-D.

(522) Son of the Earl of Clarendon.

(523) Afterwards vice-chamberlain.

(524) Afterwards Earl of Powis.

(525) Afterwards Lord Ravensworth.

(526) He had a place in the Ordnance.

(527) Son of the late lord chancellor, and afterwards a judge.

(528) Afterwards field.marshal.

(529) Afterwards secretary of the treasury.

(530) Afterwards solicitor to the Prince.

(531) Had been a lord of the treasury.

(532) Had a place on a change of the ministry. (He was a Hampshire gentleman, and member for
Christchurch.-D.)

(533) Afterwards King's remembrancer.

(534) Afterwards cofferer.

(535) Afterwards a lord of trade and baronet.

(536) Afterwards paymaster.

(537) Afterwards cofferer.

(538) Afterwards a judge.

(539) Afterwards Earl of Lichfield.

(540) Afterwards treasurer of the navy.

(541) Afterwards chancellor of the exchequer, then cofferer, and then a baron.

(542) Nicholas Fazakerley, Esq.  Walpole calls him "a tiresome Jacobite lawyer." He, however,
appears to have been a speaker of some weight in the House of Commons, and distinguished himself
by his opposition to Lord Hardwicke's mischievous marriage bill in the year 1753.-D.  (He died
in 1767.)

(543) "March 26, 27. The House of commons balloted for their committee, being called over,
and each opening his list at the table, and putting it into a vessel which stood there.  This
was ended by five.  Then a committee began to examine the lists, and sat from that time till
four the next afternoon: for, though two lists were given out, many delivered in consisted
partly of one, and partly of the other; and many were put in different order.  Sir Thomas Drury,
a friend of Lord Orford's, put down four of the opposite side in his list.  Lord Orford's friends
hoped it would bring moderate persons over to them, if they put some on their list who were
not partial to him."-" March 29.  The decision between Sir H. Lyddel, Mr. J. Talbot. and Mr.
W. Finch, was left to the Speaker, who chose the two former." Secker MS.-E.

(544) This is not correct.  It appears, by the Journals, that the motion passed in the negative
by 204 against 184.  The debate is thus noticed by the Bishop of Oxford:-"March 31. Sir Robert
Cotschall, Lord Mayor, moved for the repeal of the Septennial Bill.  Mr. Pultney said, he thought
annual parliaments would be best, but preferred septennial to triennial and voted against the
motion.  In all, 204 against it, and 184 for it."  Secker MS.-E.

243 Letter 61 To Sir Horace Mann. London, April 8, 1742.

You have no notion how astonished I was, at reading your account of Sir Francis Dashwood!-that
it should be possible for private and personal pique so to sour any man's temper and honour,
and so utterly to change their principles!  I own I am for your mentioning him in your next
despatch: they may at least intercept his letters, and prevent his dirty intelligence.  As
to Lady Walpole,(545) her schemes are so wild and so ill-founded, that I don't think it worth
while to take notice of them.  I possibly may mention this new one of changing her name, to
her husband, and of her coming-over design, but I am sure he will only laugh at it.

The ill-situation of the King, which you say is so much talked of at the Petraia,(546) Is not
true; indeed he and the Prince are not at all more reconciled for being reconciled; but I think
his resolution has borne him out.  All the public questions are easily carried, even with the
concurrence of the Tories.  Mr. Pultney proposed to grant a large sum for assisting the Queen
of Hungary, and got Sir John Barnard to move it.  They have given the King five hundred thousand
pounds for that purpose.(547)  The land-tax of four shillings in the pound is continued.  Lord
Stair is gone to Holland, and orders are given to the regiments and guards to have their camp
equipages ready.  As to the Spanish war and Vernon, there is no more talk of them; one would
think they had both been taken by a privateer.

We talk of adjourning, soon for a month or six weeks, to give the Secret Committee time to
proceed, which yet they have not done. Their object is returned from Houghton in great health
and greater spirits.  They are extremely angry with him for laughing at their power.  The concourse
to him is as great as ever; so is the rage against him.  All this week the mob has been carrying
about his effigies in procession, and to the Tower.  The chiefs of the Opposition have been
so mean as to give these mobs money for bonfires, particularly the Earls of Lichfield, Westmoreland,
Denbigh, (548) and Stanhope:(549) the servants of these last got one of these figures, chalked
out a place for the heart and shot at it.  You will laugh at me, who, the other day, meeting
one of these mobs, drove up to it to see what was the matter: the first thing I beheld was
a maulkin, in a chair, with three footmen, and a label on the breast, inscribed "Lady mary." (550)

The Speaker, who has been much abused for naming two of our friends to the Secret Committee,
to show his disinterestedness, has resigned his place of treasurer of the navy.  Mr. Clutterbuck,(551)
one of the late treasury is to have it; so there seems a stop put to any new persons from the
Opposition.

His Royal Highness is gone to Kew his drawing-rooms Will not be so crowded at his return, as
he has disobliged so many considerable people, particularly the Dukes of Montagu (552) and
Richmond, Lord Albemarle,(553) etc.  The Richmond went twice, and yet was not spoken to; nor
the others; nay, he has vented his princely resentment even upon the women, for to Lady Hervey,
not a word.

